Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


clinical benefit with relaxation compared to routine care with regards to obtaining adequate relief and improvement in SF36 role ‘physical domain’, but there was some uncertainty around both of the results. For the comparison of relaxation vs hypnotherapy there was possible clinical benefit for hypnotherapy compared to relaxation at follow up, though there was uncertainty around the result. All of the outcomes showing clinical benefit were very low quality evidence. For the remainder of the outcomes (13 symptom- related outcomes and 17 quality of life related outcomes) the evidence suggested that there was no difference between relaxation and routine care, enhanced medical care or hypnotherapy (all low and very low quality evidence). No serious adverse events were identified. There was insufficient evidence to indicate clinical effectiveness for relaxation in the management of IBS, and there was no evidence identified that indicated relaxation caused clinical harm. Trade-off between No economic evaluations were identified on relaxation therapies. The net health benefits Committee considered that the cost of delivering relaxation therapy was and resource use quite low compared to other psychological interventions although there was variation in the mode of delivery. Other The Committee discussed that there was not sufficient evidence to make a considerations recommendation regarding relaxation therapy in the management of IBS in adults in primary care. The Committee further discussed whether a research recommendation was required to further investigate the effectiveness of relaxation therapy. The Committee agreed that currently there was no standard definition for relaxation therapy which will make research in this area difficult. Moreover, the Committee also acknowledged that relaxation therapy was not routinely used for managing IBS on its own, rather, some elements of relaxation therapy were aften incorporated into standard CBT instead. For these reasons, the Committee felt that further research recommendation was not necessary. 2.4.6 Recommendations No recommendation. 2.4.7 Research recommendation The Committee did not prioritise the need for research recommendation for this area. 2.4.8 Review question 5b Do psychotherapies (computerised cognitive behavioural therapy and mindfulness therapy) have an effect on the symptoms of IBS? 2.4.9 Evidence review A systematic search was conducted (see appendix D) which identified 3704 articles. The titles and abstracts were screened and 76 articles were identified as potentially relevant. Full-text versions of these articles were obtained and reviewed against the criteria specified in the review protocol (appendix C). Of these, 67 were excluded as they did not meet the NICE
