Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


versions of these articles were obtained and reviewed against the criteria specified in the review protocol (appendix C). Of these, 67 were excluded as they did not meet the NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations criteria. Seven studies reported in 9 publications met the criteria and were included (3 publications out of the 9 were of the same study). A review flowchart is provided in appendix E, and the excluded studies (with reasons for exclusion) are shown in appendix F. Overall, the reasons for exclusion are:  Interventions were outside the update remit  Studies were not RCT  Inappropriate study population (other GI conditions)  Duplication of publications. Overall summary of evidence From the 9 included publications (7 studies, of which 3 publications were of the same study), evidence was identified for the following relevant interventions:  Internet-based CBT using both mindfulness and exposure principles (ICBT- Mindfulness/Exposure)  Internet-based CBT using exposure principles (ICBT-Exposure)  Mindfulness group training  Mindfulness-based stress reduction programme (MBSR) Most of the evidence identified was of low to very low quality due to the following reasons:  The study populations from 6 included studies (3 publications are from the same study) were self-referred, which indicated the risk of selection bias. The potential risk of selection bias together with the lack of blinding due to the nature of the interventions may overestimate the treatment effects.  All of the included studies have unclear baselines (not reported) regarding any concomitant treatments for the treatment of IBS (e.g. unclear whether the study population was on pharmacological treatments, lifestyle management or other psychological interventions for IBS).  Reasons for withdrawal or lost to follow-up in some studies were not reported.  The details of the comparators of 2 included studies (Zernicke 2012, TAU) and Hunt (2009, Waitlist control) was unclear. It is of note that all of the included studies were non-UK based (6 publications of 4 studies were from the same research group (Ljotsson et al., Sweden). The generalisability of the evidence to UK population and UK practice are therefore questionable. For the full evidence tables and full GRADE profiles please see appendices G and H. Table 5: Included studies summary Intervention and Reference Participants comparator Outcomes reported Ljotsson 85 self-referred Intervention: 10-week treatment period with 3-month (2010) IBS-patients who CCBT-Mindfulness/ follow-up online assessment. ID: 2511 self-declared to Exposure (10-week Andersson
