Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


gastroenterologist Treatment as usual (TAU) (b) Canada. Hunt (2009) 54 IBS patients Intervention: 5-week treatment with 3-month follow-up ID: 454 who self-reported CCBT-Exposure (5- (only incomplete 3-month data was that they had been week treatment) reported). diagnosed with IBS by a medical Comparator: At 6-week assessment: professional, but Waitlist control (basic  IBS-QoL were not currently diagnosed with any self-monitoring, no  GSRS-IBS scores other information NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations Intervention and Reference Participants comparator Outcomes reported other GI disorder. provided) USA. Ljotsson 311 self-referred Intervention: 10-week treatment with 6-month follow- (2014) IBS patients who CCBT-Mindfulness up. ID: 1535 declared to have (10-week CBT had a previous protocol)  IBS-QoL diagnosis of IBS  GSRS-IBS scores given by a Comparator: CCBT-Mindfulness/ fulfilled the Rome Exposure (10-week III-criteria for IBS. CBT protocol) Sweden. (a) 3 publications of one study; (b) No definition for treatment as usual. 2.4.10 Health economic evidence 2.4.10.1 Mindfulness therapy An additional search was undertaken using the same search terms with an economic evaluations filter to identify studies assessing the cost-effectiveness or cost-utility of mindfulness techniques or computer-based cognitive behavioural therapy (see appendix D). The search retrieved 1,407 articles. The titles and abstracts were screened for possible inclusion, and no articles on mindfulness were selected for further examination of the full-text version. A review flowchart is provided in appendix E. 2.4.10.2 Computer-based cognitive behavioural therapy An additional search was undertaken using the same search terms with an economic evaluations filter to identify studies assessing the cost-effectiveness or cost-utility of mindfulness techniques or computer-based cognitive behavioural therapy (see appendix D). The search retrieved 1,407 articles. The titles and abstracts were screened for possible inclusion and two articles were selected for further examination of the full-text version. No economic evaluations were included for review. A review flowchart is provided in appendix E, and the excluded studies (with reasons for exclusion) are shown in appendix F. 2.4.11 Evidence statements Four RCTs investigated the effectiveness of CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure and 1 RCT investigated the effectiveness of CCBT-Exposure. 2.4.11.1 When compared CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure to online discussion forum Two RCTs (135 particpants) suggested that people in the CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure programme were more likely to achieve improvement on quality of life (IBS-QoL scale) and IBS symptoms (GSRS-IBS) at 10-wks. However, only the quality of life outcome has reached the clinical minimum important difference. [low and very low quality] One RCT (85
