Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


(IBS-QoL scale) and IBS symptoms (GSRS-IBS) at 10-wks. However, only the quality of life outcome has reached the clinical minimum important difference. [low and very low quality] One RCT (85 participants) also suggested that people in the CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure programme were more likely to be a responder (GSRS-IBS scale) at 10-wks. This effect reached clinical minimum important difference. [low quality] NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations One RCT (85 participants) suggested that people in the CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure programme were more likely to achieve improvement on abdominal pain, tenderness, constipation (composite), total pain, constipation, bloating and flatulence at 10-wks. However, there were no differences between the 2 interventions on diarrhoea and belching. None of the effects reached the clinical minimum important difference. [very low quality] 2.4.11.2 When compared CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure to Internet delivered stress management (ISM) One RCT (195 participants) suggested that people in the CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure programme were more likely to achieve improvement on quality of life (IBS-QoL scale) and IBS symptoms (GSRS-IBS) at both 10-wks and 6-mths follow-up. However, only the quality of life outcome has reached the clinical minimum important difference. The RCT also suggested that people in the CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure programme were more likely to achieve adequate relief at 6-mths follow-up but not at 10-wks. This effect did not reach the clinical minimum important difference. [low to very low quality] 2.4.11.3 When compared CCBT-Exposure to waitlist control One RCT (31 participants) suggested that people in the CCBT-Exposure programme were more likely to achieve improvement on quality of life (IBS-QoL scale) and IBS symptoms minimum important difference. [low to very low quality] 2.4.11.4 When compared CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure to CCBT-Mindfulness One RCT (292 participants) suggested that people in the CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure programme were more likely to achieve improvement on quality of life (IBS-QoL scale) and IBS symptoms (GSRS-IBS) at both 10-wks and 6-mths follow up. However, only the quality of life outcome has reached the clinical minimum important difference. The RCT also suggested that there was no difference between the 2 interventions on adverse events (cluster). [moderate to low quality] 2.4.11.5 When compared mindfulness group training to social support group One RCT (75 participants) suggested that people in the mindfulness group training were more likely to be a responder based on the IBS-SS scale (at 10-wks only), and more likely to achieve improvement on the IBS-SS composite outcome (abdominal pain, dissatisfaction with bowel habit, at both 10-wks and 3-mth) compared
