Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


on the IBS-SS scale (at 10-wks only), and more likely to achieve improvement on the IBS-SS composite outcome (abdominal pain, dissatisfaction with bowel habit, at both 10-wks and 3-mth) compared to those in social support group. suggested there was no difference between interventions for the quality of life outcome (IBS- QoL) and bloating (IBS-SS). [very low quality] 2.4.11.6 When compared mindfulness-based stress reduction programme (MBSR) to treatment as usual One RCT (90 participants) suggested that people in the mindfulness-based stress reduction programme were more likely to achieve QoL improvement (IBS-QoL scale) at 8-wks compared to those in treatment as usual. However, this effect did not retain at the 6-mths follow-up. None of these effects reached clinical minimum important difference. The RCT also suggested there was no difference between interventions for the IBS symptoms outcomes (IBS-SS responder and total scores) at both time points. [very low quality] 2.4.12 Evidence to recommendations Committee discussions Relative value of The important outcomes were prioritised by the topic-specific members NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations different outcomes (TSMs) through ranking methods and further confirmed by the standing Committee before the review was carried out. The Committee discussed the outcomes data and agreed that patient’s quality of life is the most important outcome as IBS is a chronic condition. The Committee also agreed that the use of the IBS-QoL scale for this outcome in the evidence was appropriate as it has been validated and used widely in practice and research. The Committee discussed the importance of assessing the magnitude of improvement from baseline for the quality of life outcome (mean change from baseline scores) rather than just focussing on the difference between treatment groups (mean difference at endpoint). The Committee noted that outcomes for IBS symptoms (as reported using the GSRS-IBS scale and the ISB-SS scale) were not useful in evaluating effectiveness of psychological interventions. This is because the aim of psychological interventions is to equip people with skills and techniques to manage their IBS symptoms better in the long-term to improve their quality of life overall. They are not aimed at reducing IBS symptoms. Quality of evidence The Committee agreed that the quality of evidence was mostly of low to very low quality due to a number of factors. All of the included studies have unclear baselines regarding any concomitant treatments for IBS; the study populations of all included
