Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


to very low quality due to a number of factors. All of the included studies have unclear baselines regarding any concomitant treatments for IBS; the study populations of all included studies, apart from 1 , were self- referred, which was subject to selection bias; most included studies did not report reasons for withdrawal or lost to follow-up; finally the definition of the comparator in 2 included studies (Zernicke 2012, Treatment as usual) and (Hunt 2009, Waitlist control) was unclear. The Committee also discussed the directness of the 6 included publications of 4 studies (3 of which were multiple publications of the same research) on the Computerised Cognitive Behavioural Therapy with Mindfulness and Exposure principles (CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure) as these were conducted in Sweden. The Committee considered and agreed that the procedures of this particular intervention may not be applicable to UK setting for a number of reasons. The intervention package was in Swedish, and that translating the online materials into English may not be practical and there may be uncertainty around its effectiveness when delivered in different languages. Moreover, in this particular CCBT- Mindfulness/Exposure intervention, the participants have online access to a therapist or psychologist to gain detailed one-to-one advice, which was different to how the CCBT programme (for depression) was delivered in the UK. The Committee moved on to discuss the 1 included study on Computerised Cognitive Behavioural Therapy with Exposure principles (CCBT-Exposure) and another included study on Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) . As the definition of the comparator in these 2 studies (waitlist control and treatment as usual, respectively) was unclear, the Committee agreed that the quality of the evidence was of very low quality and there was high uncertainty of the results reported in these 2 studies. Finally, the Committee agreed that the evidence on Mindfulness group training was very limited (1 small study) and of very low quality due to the unclear baseline and reporting issues on reasons for withdrawal and lost to follow-up. Trade-off between The Committee discussed the potential benefits of the psychological benefits and harms interventions where only limited evidence was identified. NICE guideline CG61.1 Irritable bowel syndrome in adults Evidence review and recommendations CCBT-Mindfulness/Exposure: The Committee acknowledged that the evidence suggested some benefits on quality of life and IBS symptoms at 10-week post treatment, but it failed to illustrate longer-term benefit (12-month follow-up). This could be due to potentially unsustainable benefits of the intervention
