Bookshelf_NBK550725
KEYWORDS: ibs, evidence, quality, low, studies, committee, review, participants, included, study, outcomes, bowel, pain, recommendations, diet


quality of life and IBS symptoms at 10-week post treatment, but it failed to illustrate longer-term benefit (12-month follow-up). This could be due to potentially unsustainable benefits of the intervention or due to participants from the comparison group crossing over to the treatment arm after the 10- week treatment period. Also, the limited evidence for this intervention was from the same study (with multiple publications across different time points) carried out in Sweden. As discussed above, the Committee agreed that currently there is still insufficient evidence to recommend such complex intervention in the UK. A member of the Committee commented that, Ljotsson 2014 was a study of ‘mechanisms’ where a complex intervention that has found to be effective was “dismantled” to investigate the effectiveness of each component part. As such, it is not an efficacy or effectiveness study comparing intervention with a control. CCBT-Exposure, MBSR and Mindfulness group training 1 very small study (n=31) suggested a small benefit at 6-weeks on quality of life and IBS symptoms without any further longer term data. The Committee agreed that currently there is still insufficient evidence to recommend CCBT-Exposure. 1 small study (n=75) on Mindfulness group training failed to illustrate benefits on quality of life for both the 10-week and 3-month follow-up time points. The Committee again agreed that currently there is still insufficient evidence to recommend Mindfulness group training. Finally, 1 small study (n=75) on MBSR illustrated small benefit on the quality of life outcome at 8-week time-point, but the study failed to illustrate benefits on both quality of life and IBS symptoms at 6-month follow-up. The Committee again agreed that currently there is still insufficient evidence to recommend MBSR. The Committee noted that due to the nature of psychological interventions, there was unlikely to be any treatment-related adverse effects. Trade-off between No economic evaluations of mindfulness were identified. The Committee net health benefits considered that mindfulness is usually delivered as part of cognitive and resource use behavioural therapy and therefore unlikely to involve any substantial impact on resource use. No economic evaluations of computer-based cognitive behavioural therapy were included in the review of cost-effectiveness. The Committee considered that CCBT is likely to cost less than other psychological interventions. Other The Committee acknowledged that although there is currently insufficient considerations research evidence to recommend CCBT and Mindfulness therapy for the management of IBS, Mindfulness therapy has become increasingly popular in private practice,
