Renovascular Hypertension
KEYWORDS: renal, hypertension, patients, angiography, artery, renal artery, renovascular, stenosis, renovascular hypertension, medical, fibromuscular, dysplasia, fibromuscular dysplasia, test, treatment


Renovascular hypertension is blood pressure elevation due to partial or complete occlusion of one or more renal arteries or their branches. It is usually asymptomatic unless long-standing. A bruit can be heard over one or both renal arteries in < 50% of patients. Diagnosis is by physical examination and renal imaging with duplex ultrasound, CT angiography, or magnetic resonance angiography. Treatment is with medications and sometimes revascularization by percutaneous angioplasty or surgery. Renovascular disease is one of the most common causes of reversible hypertension but accounts for < 1% of all cases of hypertension (1). Stenosis or occlusion of a main renal artery, an accessory renal artery, or any of their branches can cause hypertension by stimulating release of renin from juxtaglomerular cells of the affected kidney. The area of the arterial lumen must be decreased by ≥ 70% and a significant poststenotic gradient must be present before stenosis is likely to contribute to blood pressure (BP) elevation. Overall, about 80% of cases are caused by renal atherosclerosis and 20% by fibromuscular dysplasia. Atherosclerosis is more common among men > 50 years and affects mainly the proximal one-third of the renal artery. Fibromuscular dysplasia is more common among younger patients (usually women) and usually affects the distal two-thirds of the main renal artery and the branches of the renal arteries. Rarer causes include emboli, trauma, inadvertent ligation during surgery, and extrinsic compression of the renal pedicle by tumors. Renovascular hypertension is characterized by high cardiac output and high peripheral resistance. Symptoms and Signs of Renovascular Hypertension Renovascular hypertension is usually asymptomatic. A systolic-diastolic bruit in the epigastrium, usually transmitted to one or both upper quadrants and sometimes to the back, is almost pathognomonic, but it is present in only about 50% of patients with fibromuscular dysplasia and is rare in patients with renal atherosclerosis. Renovascular hypertension should be suspected if: Diastolic hypertension develops abruptly New or previously stable hypertension rapidly worsens over a period of 6 months Hypertension is initially severe (eg, systolic BP > 180 mm Hg) There is unexplained worsening renal function Hypertension is resistant to medications A history of trauma to the back or flank or acute pain in this region with or without hematuria suggests renovascular hypertension (possibly due to arterial injury), but these findings are rare. Asymmetric renal size (> 1 cm difference) discovered incidentally during imaging tests, and recurrent episodes of unexplained acute pulmonary
