Renovascular Hypertension
KEYWORDS: renal, hypertension, patients, angiography, artery, renal artery, renovascular, stenosis, renovascular hypertension, medical, fibromuscular, dysplasia, fibromuscular dysplasia, test, treatment


decreased renal function. 3/6 Renal Artery Stenosis (Digital Subtraction Angiography) IMAGE IMAGE PROVIDED BY JAN N. BASILE, MD. Measurements of renal vein renin activity are sometimes misleading and, unless surgery is being considered, are not necessary. However, in unilateral disease, a renal vein renin activity ratio of > 1.5 (affected to unaffected side) usually predicts a good outcome with revascularization. The test is done when patients are depleted of sodium, stimulating the release of renin. Treatment of Renovascular Hypertension Aggressive medical management of hypertension, atherosclerosis, and related disorders For fibromuscular dysplasia, sometimes angioplasty with or without stent placement Rarely bypass grafting Without treatment, the prognosis is similar to that for patients with untreated primary hypertension. All patients should have aggressive medical management of their hypertension. Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis For patients with atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis, data from a large, randomized trial (the cardiovascular outcomes in renal atherosclerotic lesions [CORAL] trial) showed that stent placement did not improve outcomes compared to medical management alone (1). Although stent placement did provide a small (-2 mm Hg), statistically significant decrease in systolic blood pressure, there was no significant clinical benefit for prevention of stroke, myocardial infarction, heart failure, death due to cardiovascular or renal disease, or progression of kidney disease (including the need for renal replacement therapy). Importantly, all patients in the CORAL study received aggressive medical management of their hypertension and diabetes (if present), along with antiplatelet medications and a statin to manage atherosclerosis. Thus, the decision to eschew angioplasty must be accompanied by strict adherence to current medical management guidelines (2). If serum creatinine increases by > 50% with optimal medical treatment for blood pressure, renal artery stenting may help preserve kidney function (3). For patients unable to strictly adhere to medical management guidelines and with a > 70% renal artery stenosis, stent placement may still be considered. Fibromuscular dysplasia For most patients with fibromuscular dysplasia of the renal artery, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is recommended. Placement of a stent reduces the risk of restenosis; antiplatelet medications (eg, aspirin, clopidogrel) are given afterward. Saphenous vein bypass grafting is recommended only when extensive disease in the renal artery branches makes PTA technically unfeasible. Sometimes complete surgical revascularization requires microvascular techniques that can only be done ex vivo with autotransplantation of the kidney. Cure rate is 90% in appropriately selected patients; surgical mortality rate is < 1% (4). Medical treatment is always
