Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


This growth in funding for the control of communicable ments (UN Millennium Project 2004). The World Bank has malaria should be matched by similar increases in investments primary education, water, and so on (World Bank 2003a). being channeled to address the serious problems of shortages detailedmodelingofthecostsofremovingbottlenecksinhealth tivity or to deal with weaknesses in health management tyofkeyhealthinterventionsproventohaveapositiveeffecton information systems, in supply chain logistics for drugs and maternalandchildhealthoutcomes(Soucatandothers2003; commodities, and so on. Even though focused spending on World Bank and Ministry ofHealth,Ethiopia 2005). AIDS,TB,and malaria will clearly touch on these weaknesses, A comparison of the Millennium Project’s and the World it willnot on its own go to the core of the problem or lead to Bank’s results for East Africa is interesting. The Millennium sustainable solutions.For example,GAVI allocates resources to Project calculates that nearly US$30 per capita are needed in and to train health workers to deliver vaccinations more lates that about US$4 per capita are needed for Ethiopia to effectively.The Global Fund to Fight AIDS,Tuberculosis,and reduce child and maternal death rates by 30 to 40 percent by Malaria provides funds to prepare health workers to deliver and 2015.The large difference between the two sets of results sug- monitor compliance with antiretroviral treatments. Useful as gests that more work needs to be done to move toward con- those activities are,they will not address the underlying weak- sensus on the best methodology for countries to use. uncertain prospects for career advancement. whereas the bottlenecks method has focused on the MDGs The recent rise in DAH is encouraging,but it is still far short pertainingtochildandmaternalhealthonly.TheMillennium according to recent estimates and political pronouncements. entirety,whereasthebottlenecksmethodaddressesincremental On a global level,estimates ofwhat donors need to provide to improvements.Forexample,inrelationtothechildmortality from US$15 billion to US$35 billion per year.The Commission declineto be from176to107deathsper1,000livebirths,butthe US$30 billion a year . While preparing for the Projectmultipliesadditionalunitsofservicebyastandardcost Monterrey Summit on Finance for Development, the World perunit,whereasthebottlenecksmethodestimatesthecostof Bank calculated a funding gap of US$15 billion to US$25 bil- systemimprovementsandthendividesthisamountbytheaddi- lion a year (Devarajan, Miller, and Swanson 2002). For the tionalservicesrenderedtoderiveincrementalunitcosts. United Nations General Assembly special session on AIDS in Thetwoapproachesalsohaveimportantdifferencesinpolit- June 2001, UNAIDS suggested that spending on HIV/AIDS ical philosophy. The Millennium Project approach sets high alone in the developing countries needed to rise to about targetsforDAHandhealthspending,whicharebasedonfull US$9 billion annually by 2005, with about two-thirds of this achievementoftheMDGs,regardlessofthestartingpointsand Recent Trends and Innovations in Development Assistance for Health | 245 gapsandwithoutaddressingthefeasibilityofreachingthetar- • collaboration across governments,donors,and nongovern- gets.TheWorldBank’sapproachislessambitiousbutmaybe mental
