Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


0.4 percent,and where poli- the Democratic Republic ofCongo and in Myanmar (Stop TB cies are poor,aid is estimated to have no significant effect on Partnership 2003),the successes in polio eradication in African infant mortality (World Bank 2004b). countries experiencing civil wars,and the growing availability The issue is not black and white: there are gradations of ofantiretroviral therapy in Haiti. good policy, and as policies improve, the productivity of aid Some ofthis progress can be attributed to the general effects increases. For example, Bangladesh has made large strides in of economic growth and improvements in education, water, reducing under-five mortality in recent years,relying on NGOs and sanitation.However,specific,compelling examples of the to deliver many services. If Bangladesh were able to raise the success of DAH-backed initiatives are available. For example, quality ofits governance from below average to above average, programs to immunize against measles, to control river even at its same public spending levels,it would realize more blindness and guinea worm,and to fortify salt with iodine have rapid gains.An additional dollar ofgovernment health spend- had sustained and widespread effects (Levine and What Works ing would reduce under-five mortality by 14 percent,compared Working Group 2004).These programs have been successful at with 9 percent without such improvements (World Bank 2003c). population level,and have succeeded in a broad range ofinsti- Tradeoffs may be necessary between targeting assistance tutional environments. toward the neediest countries and achieving the greatest effect Recent analyses and reviews of donor-supported successes from DAH, but even in needy countries with weak policies, in international health have noted a set of factors that tend to some kinds of carefully targeted assistance for health (for contribute to positive outcomes: example, immunizations delivered by reputable NGOs) can • strong internal (governments) and external (donors) politi- have a positive effect. In addition, in countries with weak cal leadership policies, a focus by donors on policy dialogue and technical 246 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robert Hecht and Raj Shah assistance to improve the environment for DAH can set the This effort set the stage for a large inflow of donor financing, stage for a larger infusion offinancial support down the road. starting around 1995 and continuing to the present. Conditionality Fungibility of Development Assistance for Health Conditionality is making the availability offunding dependent Much aid is earmarked,both across sectors and within them. on a government completing an agreed task,such as enacting a One
