Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


not achieve its economic goals activities that build on earlier successes be included in the government’s financial planners that funding a national is scheduled to be finalized and approved in early 2005. nutritionprogramwasagoodinvestment,andthegovern- In contrast, in Thailand, building commitment for mentapprovedanewnutritionprojectin1995. nutrition was achieved during the 1980s and nurtured However,theissueisnotjusthowtobuildinitialcom- with little external support. Government-sponsored mitment,oftenthemainfocusoforganizationssuchasthe efforts through studies, workshops, and media outreach WorldBank.Commitmentcanbefragile,andtheissueis generated commitment for nutrition by building broad howtobroadenandmaintaincommitmentandcomple- consensus (in the government, NGOs, and the private mentitwithsystematicinvestmentsininstitutionalcapac- sector) on the benefits ofnutrition—not as a welfare issue, ity development. The first nutrition investment in but as a human development issue. This initial commit- Bangladeshwascompletedin2001.Children’snutritional ment was sustained by ensuring that policy statements substantially in project areas, and malnutrition rates ing strong technical and managerial capacity for nutrition declined.Afollow-onnutritioninvestmentwasapproved, in the country (often by means of external aid), and by butbecauseofweakgovernmentcommitment,itisstrug- linking those actions with a strong buy-in and demand glinginthechallengingpolicyenvironmentinwhichthe from communities. Malnutrition rates in Thailand social sectors operate. The Ministry of Health has not declined from 51 percent in the early 1980s to 18 percent assigned high priority to the program, and conflicts in 1990 and continue to fall. Source:Heaver 2002. communicable disease control services and for improving impacthealthservicescanbedeliveredtothepopulationona community and primary-level health delivery systems. If the targetedbasisevenwhennationalpoliciesandinstitutionsare government followed through on those basic changes, then weak—and this aid would not occur in the absence of DAH. donors would transfer their financial assistance to the health This argument applies especially to services with simple sector as a whole. technologies—for instance, basic childhood vaccinations that The finding that aid is indeed fungible has encouraged some can be delivered on a single occasion through annual cam- donors to search for broader development assistance mecha- paigns or disease treatment programs (such as short-course nisms that recognize the importance ofthe entire expenditure drug therapy for TB) that can be provided through tightly program and explicitly avoid earmarking. Such mechanisms managedtop-downefforts(Jamison2004).Thehighcoverage include the Multi-Country AIDS Program in Africa, which andtreatmentsuccessusingthedirectlyobservedshort-course supports national HIV/AIDS strategies;sectorwide approaches therapy approach for TB in the Democratic Republic of back a broad public spending agenda. an example of how a well-protected enclave project with An opposing viewpoint is that although, in general, good strong donor backing can be successful (Stop TB Partnership policies matter and the fungibility of aid tends to undermine 2003). 248 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robert Hecht and Raj
