Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


on recipient countries can be huge,and ical and technical changes are needed to ensure the successful donors are starting to acknowledge this burden.They are rec- implementation ofa harmonized donor agenda at the country ognizing that their individual procedures for reporting, level in the poorest developing nations. accounting,and managing funds—which often encompass dif- ferent budget structures;different ways of measuring progress Unpredictability of Development Assistance for Health toward objectives;different regulations for the procurement of goods, services, and works; and different approaches toward Some donors have taken steps to put in place instruments for and cycles for disbursing funds—place heavy and unreasonable DAH that extend the length of their financial commitments. demands on recipient countries. Demands are particularly The development ofmultiphase funding “slices”of3 to 5 years heavy in poor countries that are forced to allocate limited embedded in a 10- or 15-year program of support is one way human resources away from service delivery to manage donor to lengthen commitments. Nevertheless, donor financing for funding. health is not yet as reliable or sustained as is often claimed or The donor community is working to harmonize and hoped for,even under these new,long-term arrangements.In simplify its procedures to reduce these transaction costs.In the some developing countries, cuts in DAH have been sharp. ing countries, including Bangladesh, the Kyrgyz Republic, cycles and may go up or down during their annual budgetary Mozambique,and Zambia,to determine how best to lower the processes. For such countries as the Comoros and Eritrea, costs . Some of the principles of improved where the year-to-year changes in external funding can amount fluctuations are so great that they make planning and imple- • fostering strategic coherence through a poverty reduction (figure 13.1). that feed into it that provide greater assurance of sustained financial support. • promoting financial coherence through a medium-term Thechallengesaretoovercomethefactorsthatresultininter- expenditure framework and an agreement that all donor ruptionstolong-termDAH.Thosefactorsincludechangesin Recent Trends and Innovations in Development Assistance for Health | 249 Percentage of total health expenditures large scale—a series ofinnovative approaches and instruments 60 to improve the effectiveness of DAH. Those innovations include the use of broad budgetary support to countries with 50 strong governance and institutions,the implementation ofsec- 40 financing mechanisms, a shift to direct engagement with the private sector,and the implementation of programs designed 30 to move resources expeditiously to the frontlines of the battle 20 effectiveness ofthose innovative approaches and the conditions under which they tend to work is
