Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


a long period and could help create a more assured market and reduce the risks eventually will use domestic resources. for vaccine companies,thereby speeding up the introduction of these new health commodities to low-income countries (GAVI Plenty ofexamples are now available ofthe use ofDAH for 2004b). PRSCs that focus on improvements in health. The earliest lowed since by similar operations in Benin, Mauritania, and RECENT INNOVATIONS TO IMPROVE THE other low-income African countries.In Mauritania,for exam- EFFECTIVENESS OF DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE ple,the country received a transfer of US$25 million in exter- FOR HEALTH nal financing to back a public spending plan that doubled health spending from about US$8 per capita in 2000 to US$16 tries have been testing—and in some cases rolling out on a investments that are designed to lower maternal and child 250 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robert Hecht and Raj Shah deaths and combat communicable diseases by expanding rural months of program execution, more than 100,000 eligible the availability ofdrug supplies at lower-level facilities.External Pooling and Donor Harmonization tor.Instead,the government committed itself to spending for been the use of sectorwide approaches as a way for multiple these purposes from a consolidated national budget that was donors to pool their funds for a commonly agreed-on program closely monitored by civil society, government officials, and and to use similar, streamlined procedures for procurement, donor representatives (World Bank 2004a). The early results monitoring and evaluation, and reporting. Sectorwide from Mauritania are encouraging. Spending for health has approaches grew out ofsector investment programs for health risen, with most of the increase going to those parts of the that were launched in the early 1990s as a way to bring donors country and for those kinds ofservices likely to have the largest together to support broader government objectives in health. effect on the health ofthe poorest households. The main features ofsectorwide approaches are as follows: In middle-income countries, an analogous shift of DAH in strong policy environments has been the increasing use of a. a partnership among a broad coalition of donors,with the single-tranche,programmatic,sector adjustment loans.These government taking the lead; loanshaveemergedasafavoredinstrumentforDAHincertain b. a comprehensive sector policy framework to achieve goals Latin American countries with sound management of public over the short and medium terms; finances and internationally accepted procurement practices. c. an agreed-on expenditure program; UnlikethePRSCs,theprogrammaticsectorloanshavetended d. the improvement of management systems and capacity sectors (such as health and education
