Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


short and medium terms; finances and internationally accepted procurement practices. c. an agreed-on expenditure program; UnlikethePRSCs,theprogrammaticsectorloanshavetended d. the improvement of management systems and capacity sectors (such as health and education in the case of Brazil or Agency 2003). health insurance and pensions in the case of Ecuador). WhereasthePRSCshavetheiranalyticalrootsinpovertystud- The main difference between sectorwide approaches and ies,theprogrammaticsectorloanstendtobebasedonsector PRSCs is that,in the former,pooled donor funding is disbursed assessments.Afterthegovernmenthastakenkeylegal,institu- against specific expenditure items—for example,construction spending or to target services for poor households, donor donor funds are transferred to the general budget, with dis- fundsaretransferredinablockortranchetothegovernment. bursements triggered by policy actions. In 2003,theWorld Bank approved four programmatic sector A prime example of a sectorwide approach is the Ghana US$900 million (D. Cotlear, personal communication, tionshavecommittedUS$442millionoverafive-yearperiodto AnotherrecentexampleistheWorldBank’sUS$750million effortsonreducinginequalitiesinhealth.Theprogramincludes MaternalandChildInsuranceProgramsectoradjustmentloan the following main spheres of action aimed at strengthening to Argentina,which followed decisions made by that govern- priorityhealthinterventions:developinghumanresourcesfor betweenthecentralgovernmentandtheprovinces.Thecentral strengtheningmanagementinformationsystemsandperform- pillarofthisproject,aswellasthefollow-onoperationin2004, ancemonitoring,andlinkingwithtraditionalmedicine. is the implementation of the Maternal and Child Insurance Performance-Based Financing Program. It delivers a publicly financed package of essential services to uninsured mothers and children at the provincial Developing countries and their international partners are level.Thedonorfundingisusedinaninnovativewaytoprovide increasingly adopting methods for financing health care matchinggrantsfromthenationaltotheprovinciallevel,onthe activities that link the availability of funding to concrete, basisofacapitatedpaymentpermotherandchildenrolledplus measurable results on the ground. Such performance-based additionaltransferstotheprovinceforperformance.Thatper- financing was advocated a decade ago in the 1993 World formanceismeasuredintermsofkeyhealthservicegoals(for Development Report (World Bank 1993) and in other policy example,coverageofvaccineprograms,incidenceoflowbirth- documents in the early 1990s,although relatively little practical weight,andnumberofprenatalconsultations).Inthefirstfour knowledge of this type of financing was available at the time. Recent Trends and Innovations in Development Assistance for Health | 251 Since then, much more experimentation has taken place, a performance basis .Many ofthe earliest experi- and the important potential—as well as the challenges—of ments are from Latin America and the Caribbean.In Haiti,for performance-based financing for achieving national and global example, the government contracted NGOs to provide child health goals is becoming apparent. health and family planning services.The government gave the Performance-based financing is now being widely and NGOs an advance each year and then a quarterly sum based on tests include situations in which the following occurs: measured against various indicators, including the extent of immunization coverage, the percentage of families using oral providers in NGOs and the private sector to deliver essential women attending prenatal care,and the average waiting times health services to poor households. in clinics.The NGOs’performance determined the bonus they • Central governments determine the transfer of
