Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


to deliver essential women attending prenatal care,and the average waiting times health services to poor households. in clinics.The NGOs’performance determined the bonus they • Central governments determine the transfer of funds to received,which could be up to 10 percent ofthe original nego- local governments on the basis of their performance in tiated budget.As a result,the Haitian NGOs made changes in strengthening health services. their service delivery schemes and improved their performance • Donors release funding to recipients in developing in immunization and oral rehydration in particular (Eichler, targets. implementing a large performance-based program with NGOs that currently covers nearly 4 million people,mostly among the Performance-Based Contracts with Nongovernmental country’s indigenous population (box 13.2). Similar schemes Organizations. A number of governments in low-income have been implemented in Argentina, El Salvador, and countries are funding NGOs to deliver basic health services on Nicaragua. Box 13.2 Large-Scale Performance Contracting with Nongovernmental Organizations in Guatemala Guatemala has successfully implemented contracting on a The contracting system under the program appears to large scale with NGOs to deliver health services.The gov- have resulted in important gains in health service delivery. ernment started the Program to Extend Coverage ofBasic Immunizationratesrosefrom69percentin1997to87per- war.The program has continued under successive admin- be able to assess the program’s effect on mothers’and chil- 137 contracts. to overcome a number of obstacles. Government health The contracts specify a range of maternal and child workers resisted the scheme because they feared that con- paid about US$8 per person served, mostly in cash, but reluctant to get involved, because they thought that the also in kind in the form of such items as vaccines and government was demanding too much in the way of medicines. Payments are released quarterly after the improved performance and also doubted that the govern- NGOs’performance has been checked and verified. ment would pay them in a timely manner. Given the Performance is measured according to a series ofindi- financial fragility of many local NGOs in Guatemala,the cators,including coverage of immunization and prenatal government had to make advance payments to the NGOs care, distribution of iron sulfate tablets to pregnant and release quarterly payments without delay to build women and to children,and frequency of home visits by confidence in the relationship between the public and pri- NGO outreach staff. The government has hired private vate sectors. firms to develop the monitoring system,which also looks at the NGOs’accounting practices. Source:Hecht 2004; World Bank
