Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


the public and pri- NGO outreach staff. The government has hired private vate sectors. firms to develop the monitoring system,which also looks at the NGOs’accounting practices. Source:Hecht 2004; World Bank 2000. 252 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robert Hecht and Raj Shah Morerecently,countriesinSouthAsiahavebeguntoenter of the activities run by the underperforming municipalities Afghanistan,underarecentlyapprovedWorldBank–financed projectforhealthservicerehabilitation,thegovernmentiscon- Donor Disbursements to National Governments and Other tractingwithNGOstorunhealthcenters.NGOsthatachieve Recipients. A number of innovative approaches are in place specifiedtargetswillbeeligibletoreceiveadditionalpaymentsof that make donor financing ofhealth programs conditional on upto10percentoftheirbaselinesubsidiesfromthegovernment. successful performance on the ground. One example is the In a similar vein,the central and state governments in India World Bank’s credit buy-down program for polio eradication have started to reimburse NGOs and private providers on the (box 13.3). basis of performance. The national TB program reimburses GAVI has also been a pioneer in the performance-based private laboratories for testing sputum samples to detect TB;it approach to grant assistance. Through its sister organization, also pays NGOs and private doctors a fixed sum per infected the Vaccine Fund, which raises and disburses funds for the patient who is cured using the directly observed short-course alliance,GAVI provides commodity assistance to countries in therapy approach. In one district of Kerala state where this the form of new and underused vaccines (hepatitis B, scheme is well advanced, NGOs and private providers have Haemophilus influenzae type B, and yellow fever, with new helped boost coverage from some 55 percent ofthose infected products for rotavirus and pneumococcus to follow); safe with TB to 78 percent . injection supplies; and support for strengthening national In Cambodia, government agreements and funding to immunization systems.In addition,GAVI allocates grant funds NGOs to operate district health services showed impressive to countries on the basis of their performance in increasing results compared with the standard approach, whereby the coverage rates for diptheria-pertussis-tetanus immunizations. government ran district services.The NGOs operated in one of Countries’applications to GAVI specify current coverage levels. two ways: (a) on a fully contracted-out basis, with complete On the basis of these data, their performance is assessed responsibility for service delivery, including hiring and firing annually, and US$20 per child is given to the country staffmembers and setting wages and procuring and distribut- for each additional child immunized with the diphtheria- ing essential drugs and supplies,or (b) through a pure man- pertussis-tetanus vaccine. agement contract, in which the NGOs worked within the In2004,GAVImadeitsfirstpaymentforperformanceveri- Ministry of Health system
