Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


the lack of an attractive market in Improved Nutrition, in which a consortium of donors that poor countries are barriers to investment. The public-private includes the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the govern- partnerships aim to overcome those barriers through a combi- ments ofCanada,the Netherlands,and the United States have nation ofup-front financing for R&D (so-called push funding) pooled funds that can be used to expand the fortification of and market guarantees for effective products (so-called pull basic foods with micronutrients by private manufacturers.The financing).The 20 largest partnerships for new products have Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition is helping to fortify raised more than US$1.5 billion over the past decade and are wheat with iron in western China and in Morocco and fish beginning to see results,such as the development ofnew drugs sauce with vitamin A in Vietnam. for malaria and TB,promising vaccines for malaria and AIDS, Another recent example of DAH going directly to the pri- and microbicides to protect against HIV infection (IPPPH vate sector is Avahan,the innovative AIDS prevention program 2004; Rockefeller Foundation 2004). The largest partnership, that the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is financing in six the IAVI,illustrates the innovative nature ofthese partnerships Indian states.The program uses external financing to leverage and the effective use ofDAH (box 13.4). 254 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robert Hecht and Raj Shah Box 13.4 The International AIDS Vaccine Initiative The International AIDS Vaccine Initiative was established velopers, while ensuring that developing countries will in 1996 with support from the Rockefeller Foundation as have access to the vaccine at an affordable price ifit turns an innovative way to give a boost to AIDS vaccine R&D. out to be effective. Optimism about AIDS vaccines in the late 1980s had given Since IAVI embarked on these vaccine development way to a series of failures and to discouragement by the partnerships in 1999, it has spent a total of about end of the decade. R&D efforts were spending less than US$200 million in this area. Five vaccine candidates are vaccine companies were investing much in research into Europe, and North America. IAVI is poised to spend AIDS vaccines. another US$300 million in R&D during 2005–7 in an IAVI’s mission was defined as ensuring the develop- effort to accelerate the discovery,development,and licens- ment of a safe, effective, and accessible vaccine for use ing ofa vaccine to prevent HIV infection.IAVI is
