Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


was defined as ensuring the develop- effort to accelerate the discovery,development,and licens- ment of a safe, effective, and accessible vaccine for use ing ofa vaccine to prevent HIV infection.IAVI is also try- throughout the world. IAVI’s activities were to include a ing to stimulate expanded use of donor funding for R&D combination of global advocacy, policy analysis and in the field of AIDS vaccines and is calling for govern- reform,and investments in carefully chosen R&D projects ments to increase public financing from the current focusing on the most promising vaccine candidates. amount of around US$600 million a year to US$1.2 bil- IAVI’s collaboration with the private sector has lion annually. At the same time, IAVI has proposed that occurred at several levels.Funding for IAVI has come from donors create a purchase fund ofseveral billion dollars to six governments (Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, serve as a promise to buy large numbers of doses of an Norway,the United Kingdom,and the United States);the efficacious vaccine from qualified manufacturers. The European Union;and the World Bank,as well as from pri- U.K.government has committed itself to joining such an vate foundations and companies.IAVI’s vaccine develop- advance purchase fund and is urging others to join it ment partnerships take many forms. They typically (“Gordon Brown to Earmark”2004). include an academic developer and a biotechnology com- The health and economic stakes are enormous. in developing countries such as India,Kenya,and Uganda. 100 million HIV infections are likely over the next two Private companies generally manufacture test lots of the decades,resulting in huge economic losses.IAVI estimates AIDS vaccines and undertake bioengineering studies and that an efficacious vaccine could prevent 2 million AIDS enhancements to the vaccine. IAVI generally shares the deaths a year and generate billons ofdollars in lives saved risks and costs of the partnerships with the private code- and antiretroviral treatment costs averted. Source:IAVI 2004. Getting Funds to the Front Line • a strong financial capacity in NGOs and private providers in cases in which the government’s strategy for local develop- Central government funds can easily leak as they move through ment is to rely on private institutions the pipeline from the center to local levels.In addition,in the • a government body that is appropriately equipped and absence oflocal initiative and the right incentives,service pro- responsible for regulating the quality of public and private vision can fail to reflect the views oflocal people.Effective DAH providers needs to address
