Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, development, countries, world, bank, donors, government, dah, world bank, assistance, private, aids, ngos, financing, funding


more robust DAH, could have a negative impact on DAH. Those factors could as they are currently doing by means ofthe Millennium Project includeanoverallslowingintherateofgrowthofdevelopment and the High-Level Forum on the Health-Related MDGs. financingandthedonorfatiguethatcouldsetinifthelargerallo- Individual bilateral donors and foundations must continue to cationsforHIV/AIDS,TB,andmalariaarenotfullydisbursed, demonstrate their leadership.Finally,and perhaps most impor- aremisused,oryielddisappointingresultsontheground. tant,leaders and civil society organizations in poor countries Under a more optimistic scenario, DAH will continue to need to continue to speak out for more and more effective burse a higher volume of funds and use them effectively—for prepared to commit domestic resources to match the larger service delivery organizations. Sectorwide approaches and budget support through national poverty reduction programs may also result in expanded flows ofDAH.New generations of REFERENCES technologies adapted to the developing world, such as more Bhushan,I.,S.Keller,and B.Schwartz.2002.Achieving the Twin Objectives effective antimalarials,better TB diagnostics,and a vaccine to ofEfficiency and Equity: Contracting for Health Services in Cambodia. prevent HIV infection,would almost certainly attract increas- Policy BriefSeries 6.Manila:Asian Development Bank. ing amounts ofDAH. Burnside,C.,and D.Dollar.2000.“Aid,Growth,the Incentive Regime,and Even under the more optimistic scenario,DAH will still face Poverty Reduction.”In The World Bank: Structure and Policies,ed.C.L. major challenges.The expected volume of financial assistance Press. is unlikely to match the large needs of the developing world Central TB Division,Directorate General ofHealth Services,Ministry of and the requirements to attain the MDGs. Countries and Health and Family Welfare.2002.TB India 2002: RNTCP Status Report. donors will therefore face difficult decisions in relation to pri- New Delhi:Directorate General ofHealth Services. ority setting and require better tools to make such allocation CMH (Commission on Macroeconomics and Health). 2001. Macroeconomics and Health: Investing in Health for Economic decisions. Cost-effectiveness analysis offers one such tool. Development—Report of the Commission on Macroeconomics and Effective absorption of DAH will also continue to pose diffi- Health.Geneva:World Health Organization. culties for countries with weak capacity. In such cases, Devarajan, S., M. J. Miller, and E. V. Swanson. 2002. “Goals for increased use of NGOs and the private sector in general to Development:History,Prospects and Costs.”Discussion Paper 2819, complement public sector action may help make the informa- World Bank,Washington,DC. Paying for Performance in Haiti.Washington,DC:Abt Associates. health status more accessible. Foster,M.,A.Brown,and T.Conway.2000.Sector-Wide Approaches for Another issue is that the current architecture of develop- Health Development: A Review of Experience.Geneva:World Health mentassistancedoesnotcontainamechanismtoensurethat Organization. 256 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robert Hecht and Raj Shah GAVI (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization). 2004a. GAVI Swedish
