Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


Multimodal approach to exploring neighbourhood and transportation dynamics in HIV care in Kenya: protocol Linda Jepkoech Kimaru ,1 Christine Ngaruiya,1 Cyrus Mugo,2 Purnima Madhivanan3 To cite: Kimaru LJ, ABSTRACT STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS OF THIS STUDY Multimodal approach to where prevalence exceeds global averages. Achieving ⇒ This study uses a theory- informed multimodal exploring neighbourhood viral suppression depends on consistent adherence qualitative design integrating individual- focused and transportation to antiretroviral therapy (ART), but individuals in in- depth interviews and community- centred photo- dynamics in HIV care in neighbourhoods perceived as disorderly often show low voice methodology to explore structural barriers to Kenya: protocol. BMJ Open 2026;16:e110803. doi:10.1136/ self- efficacy for ART adherence. Despite the importance HIV care. this area is under- explored in low- and middle- income for structured measurement of perceptions and ► Prepublication history countries (LMICs), especially regarding transportation supports triangulation with qualitative narratives. and additional supplemental barriers. Grounded in Social- Ecological Theory (SET) and ⇒ Actively uses Community- Based Participatory material for this paper are Research, involving participants in the research available online. To view these the ‘Broken Windows’ Theory (BWT), SET suggests that process, from data generation to interpretation and dissemination. online ( while BWT posits visible signs of neighbourhood disorder, bmjopen-2025-110803). such as neglect and decay, can lead to a decline in healthy ⇒ The purposively selected sample size is appropriate for qualitative inquiry but limits generalisability. behaviours, creating an environment conducive to negative Received 12 September 2025 health outcomes. This protocol describes a multimodal ⇒ The group format of photovoice may inhibit full par- Accepted 26 March 2026 ticipation from participants less comfortable sharing qualitative study designed to examine how transportation in a group setting. challenges and perceived neighbourhood dynamics influence HIV care among people living with HIV (PLWH). This intersection of structural barriers, neighbourhood visual and textual coding approach combining inductive dynamics and HIV outcomes in LMIC settings remains and theory- informed deductive analysis. Triangulation under- researched. across interviews and validated survey measures will be Methods This theory- informed multimodal qualitative conducted. study, grounded in a Community- Based Participatory Ethics and dissemination This study has received Research framework, integrates individual in- depth ethical approval from the KNH- UoN Ethics and Research interviews (IDIs) and community- based photovoice focus Committee (P635/08/2024) and the Stanford University group discussions (FGDs). 20 PLWH participated in IDIs Institutional Review Board (eProtocol #: 77260). Written accompanied by a survey with
