Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


community- based photovoice focus Committee (P635/08/2024) and the Stanford University group discussions (FGDs). 20 PLWH participated in IDIs Institutional Review Board (eProtocol #: 77260). Written accompanied by a survey with validated scales (~ 10 min) informed consent was obtained from all participants. assessing perceived neighbourhood disorder, defined as Findings will be disseminated through peer- reviewed © Author(s) (or their visible physical and social signs of neglect such as crime, publications, conference presentations and a photo employer(s)) 2026. Re- use vandalism and deteriorated infrastructure, ART adherence exhibition. permitted under CC BY- NC. No self- efficacy, transportation, access to HIV care and fear of Discussion This study will contribute to an understudied commercial re-u se. See rights crime. An additional 20 PLWH took part in four photovoice body of research on how socio- environmental conditions and permissions. Published by BMJ Group. FGD sessions. Photovoice FGD sessions were guided by influence HIV care engagement in LMICs. Through the 1Department of Emergency the SHOWeD questioning technique, a structured reflection integration of individual- focused in- depth interviews Stanford, California, USA see, what is happening, how it relates to their lives, why study captures both personal perceptions and shared 2Kenya Research and Training it exists and what can be done. In each component, neighbourhood realities. Findings will inform interventions Center, Kenyatta National participants were purposively sampled and stratified and policy adjustments to improve support for PLHIV in Promotion Sciences, The gender (10 women, 10 men) and age group (10 aged 18–24, 10 older than 24). Interviews and photovoice Arizona, USA discussions were transcribed and are being analysed Despite considerable progress in expanding thematically using MAXQDA qualitative analysis software. access to antiretroviral therapy (ART), many Correspondence to Dr Linda Jepkoech Kimaru; Participant- generated photographs will be analysed people living with HIV (PLWH) in low- and linda. kimaru@ gmail. com alongside accompanying narratives using an integrated middle- income countries (LMICs)1 continue Kimaru LJ, et al. BMJ Open 2026;16:e110803. doi: 1 Open access to face barriers to sustained care engagement. HIV have focused on lived experiences,8 especially of perceived with approximately 1.4 million people living with the virus HIV care. Moreover, there is limited use of qualitative or in 2023.2 Among adults, women represent the majority of participatory methods to explore these factors in-d epth. cases compared with men, prevalence rate among women Research that integrates subjective perceptions, visual is 4.3%, more than double that of men at 2.1%.2
