Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


to explore these factors in-d epth. cases compared with men, prevalence rate among women Research that integrates subjective perceptions, visual is 4.3%, more than double that of men at 2.1%.2 Young data and theory- driven analysis is needed to understand adults aged 15–24 years are particularly vulnerable; prev- how perceived neighbourhood and mobility dynamics alence rates are 1.4% for young women and 0.9% for shape HIV outcomes. This study aims to understand women in this age group.2 Kenya has made remarkable borhood dynamics impact HIV care among PLHIV?’. To progress in its HIV response, surpassing some of the Joint address this question, this protocol outlines a multimodal United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) qualitative design with the following objectives: 95–95–95 targets by 2030.3 Of those living with HIV, 96% 1. To explore the experiences and perceptions of PLWH are aware of their status, 94% are on ART and 91% have on ART regarding neighbourhood perceived disor- achieved viral suppression.2 To fully achieve and sustain der and perceived fear of crime on ART adherence the 95–95–95 targets, especially for those on ART and self- efficacy and HIV care engagement. This was ac- achieving viral suppression, it is essential to go beyond complished using in-d epth interviews (IDIs), and an individual- level interventions and address broader accompanying survey with validated scales to conduct community- level factors. qualitative analysis. A growing body of literature indicates that neighbour- 2. To investigate how perceptions of neighbourhood dis- hood characteristics are linked to HIV-r elated outcomes order and fear of crime among adults living with HIV such as risk behaviours, testing, transmission and engaging influence transportation challenges they face when in care.4–7 In a scoping review, neighbourhood disorder accessing HIV care. This was accomplished using IDIs remains one of the least examined neighbourhood charac- and an accompanying survey with validated scales to teristics in relation to HIV treatment outcomes.8 Perceived conduct qualitative analysis. neighbourhood disorder refers to visible signs of social 3. To employ photovoice methodology to capture visual and physical neglect that signal a breakdown in order.9 (through photographs) and narrative data (through It includes physical disorder, physical decay and social photo- guided discussions) on neighbourhood and disorder. Physical disorder is referred to as visible envi- transportation that may influence HIV care engage- ronmental issues like litter, graffiti and discarded items ment. Participant- generated photographs will be an- in public spaces.9 While physical decay refers
