Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


multiple studies have used geographic or socio- The IDI component was grounded in an individual- economic indicators to characterise neighbourhoods, few focused qualitative methodology that aimed to explore 2 Kimaru LJ, et al. BMJ Open 2026;16:e110803. doi: Open access personal stories, behavioural patterns and nuanced can create an environment where more serious crimes provided a confidential space for participants to reflect minor signs of non- healthy behaviour within an environ- on how their daily environments, marked by varying ment can lead to a decline in healthy behaviours, creating including ART adherence and clinical attendance. This to understand how the physical and social environment approach allows for in- depth exploration of individual- jointly shape HIV care. ised experiences of fear, resilience, coping and adapta- tion that may not emerge in group settings. Study setting The photovoice component follows a CBPR frame- The study was conducted at Kenyatta National Hospital work, which emphasises equitable collaboration (KNH) in Nairobi, Kenya.23 Kenya’s national languages between researchers and participants and is grounded are both English and Swahili. KNH is the country’s largest in core goals such as co- learning, mutual benefit, shared referral and teaching hospital and provides comprehen- decision- making and community empowerment.20 sive HIV services through its Comprehensive Care Centre Through participant- generated photographs and facili- (CCC).24 The hospital’s wide catchment area and diverse tated dialogue, this method captures collective interpre- patient population make it an ideal setting for under- tations of structural and environmental barriers to HIV standing structural and environmental barriers in HIV care. Participants engage not only in identifying chal- care.24 lenges but also in interpreting findings and contributing to dissemination through a community photo exhibi- Sample size and composition tion. This is consistent with CBPR principles of shared The IDI component included approximately 20 PLWH, decision- making and co- learning, this photovoice compo- stratified by HIV viral suppression status (suppressed vs nent incorporates structured participant involvement unsuppressed), age group (18–24 years and >24 years) and through participant-g enerated photographs, collab- gender (male and female). The photovoice component orative theme identification and co-i nterpretation of included a separate and distinct group of approximately findings, and public engagement through a community 20 PLWH, organised into four focus groups of five to six photo exhibition that engages stakeholders and commu- participants each using the same stratification criteria. nity members in dialogue around the study’s findings. Participants did not take part in both
