Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


six photo exhibition that engages stakeholders and commu- participants each using the same stratification criteria. nity members in dialogue around the study’s findings. Participants did not take part in both components. The photovoice participatory process prioritises locally A group size of five to six participants is consistent with meaningful insights and supports knowledge translation qualitative research guidance recommending smaller and advocacy. focus groups for in- depth, participatory and emotion- Theoretical frameworks ally nuanced discussions.25 In photovoice methodology, This study is informed by two theories. The SET empha- where each participant presents multiple images and multiple layers of influence, including interpersonal, sufficient time for detailed photo discussion, promote community, institutional and policy-l evel factors.21 This equitable participation, reduce participant fatigue and theory supports the examination of how environmental facilitate consensus- building.26 exposures (at the community level), such as perceived Stratification by age group, viral suppression status neighbourhood disorder, fear of crime or transportation, and gender is applied across both components to ensure interact with personal decision-m aking around HIV care. inclusion of participants with differing clinical status and The BWT, originally a criminological concept, suggests developmental stage. These characteristics may influ- that minor signs of neglect and disorder, if unaddressed, ence how individuals perceive and interact with their Table 1 Eligibility criteria Component Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria IDIs and photovoice FGD sessions ► Diagnosed with HIV ► Acutely ill ► Age 18+ ► Unwilling to consent ► Any gender ► Understands English or Swahili Photovoice FGD sessions only Above, plus: Above, plus: ► Able and willing to take photographs ► Unable to attend multiple photovoice ► Willing to attend four photovoice FGD FGD sessions sessions FGD, focus group discussion; IDIs, in- depth interviews. Kimaru LJ, et al. BMJ Open 2026;16:e110803. doi: 3 Open access neighbourhood environments, experience transporta- administered to collect demographic information and tion barriers and navigate HIV care. measured items listed in table 2 (Appendix online supple- Targeting approximately 20 participants per compo- mental appendix B – Survey): nent aligns with qualitative methodological guidance They then proceeded to the IDI that included the indicating that this range is generally sufficient to achieve following topics: the perception of their neighbourhood thematic depth and data saturation in qualitative studies physical condition, social environment, safety and crime, with defined eligibility criteria and relatively homoge- HIV care routine and transport. The interviews were neous populations.27 Participant eligibility criteria are conducted by trained interviewers
