Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


social environment, safety and crime, with defined eligibility criteria and relatively homoge- HIV care routine and transport. The interviews were neous populations.27 Participant eligibility criteria are conducted by trained interviewers and audio recorded detailed in table 1. for transcription. Interviewers received training in human subjects’ protection, confidentiality, culturally Recruitment strategy responsive and trauma- informed interviewing and stan- Participants were identified through routine clinical visits in collaboration with KNH leadership and healthcare dardised use of the semi- structured interview guide. staff. Recruitment flyers (in English and Swahili) with After completion of the interview, the participant’s general information were distributed by KNH CCC staff. most recent viral load was abstracted from their clin- Interested individuals were privately referred to the study ical record to contextualise their reported experiences. team for further information and consent. Participants provided written consent for abstraction of their most recent viral load result from their clinical Data collection record; in collaboration with authorised KNH CCC staff, Participant recruitment and data collection were the study team abstracted only this single clinical data conducted between 13 January 2025 and 30 June 2025. point in accordance with institutional data protection procedures. All these procedures were completed within In-depth interviews a single visit. Participants received 600 KES (Kenyan shil- Each IDI lasted 30–60 min and was guided by a semi- structured interview (online supplemental appendix ling) (~5 US$) compensation at the end of the of the A – IDI Guide) in a private room within the KNH CCC. interview. Compensation amounts were determined in Following informed consent, participants completed collaboration with KNH collaborators and are consistent a survey with validated scales. To support methodolog- with local ethical guidelines and compensation norms ical triangulation, a quantitative survey (~10 min) was for similar research in Kenya. Table 2 Survey measures # of Scale/section Measures items Eligibility screening Screens for age ≥18, HIV diagnosis, viral load testing in past 12 months and ART 4 prescription. Binary (yes/no) items. Demographics Collects age, sex, education, employment status, neighbourhood name and length 6 of residence. Mixed numerical and categorical items. Transportation and access to Assesses number of HIV care visits, missed visits due to transport, distance, travel 22 healthcare survey32 time, mode of transport and perceived transportation barriers (Likert- problem type scale across multiple domains). Includes structured categorical, numerical and 4- point problem- scale items. HIV Adherence Self- Efficacy Measures confidence in ability to adhere to ART under
