Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


(Likert- problem type scale across multiple domains). Includes structured categorical, numerical and 4- point problem- scale items. HIV Adherence Self- Efficacy Measures confidence in ability to adhere to ART under different conditions. 12 Scale33 0–10 confidence scale (Likert- type numerical response). Perceived Neighbourhood Assesses observed neighbourhood physical decay, physical and social disorder 15 Observation Scale9 (eg, trash, vandalism, gangs, loitering). 0–5 frequency scale (no presence to highly present). PFCS – fear frequency34 Measures frequency of worry about specific crimes in past month. 4- category 5 frequency response. PFCS – fear likelihood34 Measures perceived likelihood of specific crimes occurring. 0–5 likelihood scale. 5 PFCS – fear control34 Measures perceived control over becoming a victim of crime. 0–5 control scale. 5 PFCS – fear consequences34 Measures perceived impact of crime on life. 0–5 impact scale. 5 Neighbourhood social cohesion Measures perceived trust, collective efficacy and social cohesion in 7 items34 neighbourhood. 5- point agreement Likert scale. Clinical abstraction (viral load) Date of most recent viral load and most recent viral load value abstracted from 2 record. Numerical entry. ART, antiretroviral therapy; PFCS, Perceived Fear of Crime Scale. 4 Kimaru LJ, et al. BMJ Open 2026;16:e110803. doi: Open access Photovoice focus groups through facilitated discussion rather than formal voting. Participants in the photovoice component were invited In photovoice FGD session 4, they reflected on the overall to attend four photovoice FGD sessions in small, gender- process and collaboratively planned a community photo balanced (male and female) groups of five to six indi- exhibit. The community photo exhibit served as a knowl- viduals. Each photovoice FGD session was conducted by edge translation and advocacy event, inviting community trained facilitators.28 Facilitators were trained in qualita- members, community stakeholders, healthcare providers tive focus group facilitation, CBPR methodology, research and policymakers to engage with participant-g enerated ethics and confidentiality, trauma-i nformed engagement photographs and themes. Participants were invited to and ethical management of participant-g enerated visual attend and collaborated in determining which images and data. Following informed consent, participants began narratives are displayed, consistent with CBPR principles with a training photovoice FGD session (session 1) focused of shared decision- making and community engagement. on research ethics, safety of taking photographs, how to Each photovoice FGD session was conducted in private take good photographs with their smartphones and a rooms, audio recorded, lasted approximately 2–4 hours discussion of the research topic and questions. If any of and concluded
