Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


conducted in private take good photographs with their smartphones and a rooms, audio recorded, lasted approximately 2–4 hours discussion of the research topic and questions. If any of and concluded with participant compensation of 600 the participants did not have a smartphone, they were KES (~US$5) each. Participants attended four facili- provided with one for the photo taking assignment. Each tated photovoice FGD sessions, the four photovoice FGD participant was asked to take two to three photographs sessions were scheduled about 7 days apart which allowed over a 7- day period capturing their perceptions of neigh- participants sufficient time for photo- taking and reflec- bourhood dynamics and transportation as they relate tion between meetings, while providing a structured, iter- to HIV care. After the photo collection phase, partic- ative process for training, theme development, consensus ipants returned for a series of three group discussions, building and preparation for the community exhibit. spaced approximately 1 week apart. In photovoice FGD The photovoice FGD sessions are structured as follows session 2, participants sent all the photos to the study’s (table 3). password protected phone. Then participants completed Photos were interpreted using the SHOWeD form26 – SHOWeD form) for each photograph, shared their to describe photographs. This method helps partici- photos in a facilitated group dialogue and discussed initial pants interpret their photographs in a structured way, themes emerging from their individual photos. In photo- prompting them to describe what they see, explain what voice FGD session 3, participants identified top photos is happening in the photo, connect it to broader commu- through group consensus, refined key consensus themes nity experiences, identify underlying causes and propose and co- developed a group statement about the research potential actions. In applying this framework, participants topic. ‘Top photos’ refers to photos selected through collaboratively unpack the social and structural dimen- participant consensus based on relevance to the research sions of their lived environments and how these influence perceived importance for advocacy or dissemination. In concluded the study to share insights with community photovoice FGD session 3, participants reviewed initial members, policymakers and healthcare providers. themes generated from individual photographs and collaboratively grouped, compared and refined them into Data analysis higher-o rder consensus themes. This process involves We will use MAXQDA software29 to manage, code and identifying overlaps, clarifying meanings and consoli- analyse all qualitative data, including transcripts from dating related ideas to capture underlying mechanisms IDIs
