Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


We will use MAXQDA software29 to manage, code and identifying overlaps, clarifying meanings and consoli- analyse all qualitative data, including transcripts from dating related ideas to capture underlying mechanisms IDIs and photovoice group discussions. MAXQDA across participants’ experiences. Consensus was achieved was selected because it allows simultaneous analysis of Table 3 Summary of photovoice sessions Photovoice FGD session # Focus Activities 1 Training and photography assignment Research ethics, photography basics, research goals. Assignment: take two to three photos over 7 days. 2 Initial theme identification Complete SHOWeD forms; share photos; discuss initial common themes. 3 Consensus and group statement Select three to four top photos; develop consensus themes and group statement. 4 Review and exhibit planning Reflect on process; prepare for community photo exhibition. FGD, focus group discussion. Kimaru LJ, et al. BMJ Open 2026;16:e110803. doi: 5 Open access text and visual data, enabling us to code and interpret track the evolution of themes and theoretical insights. participant photographs from the photovoice compo- Themes will be compared across participant character- nent alongside transcripts. Interview and photovoice istics (eg, viral suppression status, gender) to identify transcripts in addition to photographs were transcribed patterns of meaning related to neighbourhood percep- verbatim and imported into MAXQDA for line- by- tions and HIV care engagement. line open coding. A codebook will be developed both Patient and public involvement deductively based on our theoretical frameworks (SET and BWT) and inductively based on emerging patterns This study is built on a CBPR approach. PLWH were from the data. The initial coding process will be involved in data generation through photovoice and are conducted by two independent coders to enhance reli- being engaged in interpretation of visual narratives and ability. Qualitative data will be analysed using thematic development of dissemination strategies, including a analysis informed by principles of grounded theory, photo exhibition. including iterative coding and constant comparison. This approach supports identification of patterns across ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION narratives while remaining theoretically informed by This study has received ethical approval from the KNH- SET and BWT. The thematic analysis will be guided by UoN Ethics and Research Committee (P635/08/2024) paradigms, tailored to each qualitative method. and the Stanford University Institutional Review Board For IDIs, analysis will draw on an interpretivist theory approach,30 emphasising how individuals interpret and (eProtocol #: 77260). Written informed consent was obtained from all participants. Findings will be dissem- assign meaning to their lived
