Open access Protocol
KEYWORDS: hiv, photovoice, care, participants, study, hiv care, research, group, qualitative, neighbourhood, fgd, data, perceived, community, transportation


on an interpretivist theory approach,30 emphasising how individuals interpret and (eProtocol #: 77260). Written informed consent was obtained from all participants. Findings will be dissem- assign meaning to their lived experiences with neighbour- inated through peer-r eviewed publications, conference hood environments, transportation and HIV care. Survey presentations and a photo exhibition. responses accompanying IDIs will be scored according to published scoring procedures for each scale. Scores will be summarised descriptively and categorised (eg, low, moderate, high) where appropriate. During qualitative DISCUSSION analysis, narratives will be examined across participants This study uses a theory- informed, multimodal quali- with similar score profiles to explore patterns of conver- tative design to examine how socio- environmental and gence, divergence or expansion between quantitative structural factors impact HIV care. The integration of categorisations and lived experiences. This comparative the SET and BWT allows us to examine both proximal approach supports triangulation by assessing how stan- and distal drivers of HIV care, while the CBPR approach dardised perceptions correspond with emergent qualita- ensures that community voices are central to shaping tive themes. the interpretation and dissemination of findings. We For photovoice FGD sessions, analysis will be guided by anticipate that findings from this study will inform the a constructivist grounded theory approach,31 recognising development of interventions tailored to disordered the co- construction of knowledge between participants environments for people living with HIV. Additionally, and researchers. SHOWeD responses will be included as the participatory dissemination strategy, including a analytical memos linked to specific images, and thematic public photo exhibition, may stimulate dialogue among codes will be applied across both visual and narrative data. stakeholders, healthcare providers and policymakers Within each photovoice FGD group (five to six partici- to collaboratively address barriers to HIV care in disor- pants), participants generated initial themes based on dered settings. their photographs and collaboratively refined those into One key strength of this study is the use of triangulated higher- order consensus themes. Those themes reflected qualitative methods, semi- structured interviews supple- group- level interpretations. All photovoice transcripts and mented by a validated survey (Perceived Neighbour- associated photographs from the four groups will then be hood Observation Scale, Adherence Self-E fficacy Scale, imported into MAXQDA and formally coded by two inde- Perceived Fear of Crime Scale), and participatory visual pendent researchers. This coding will allow systematic data collection through photovoice. This design enables comparison across groups to identify broader cross-g roup integration of
