Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


require more aggressive therapies such as lipoprotein apheresis and agents for the treatment of severe hypercholesterolemia such as microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) inhibitors and evinacumab. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Genetic disorders resulting in familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) consist of autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia (ADH), autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia (ARH), and polygenic hypercholesterolemia. The genetic architecture of FH is more complex than previously recognized and in fact is now believed to be associated with at least nine different genes with thousands of variants, the details of which are beyond the scope of this chapter. But briefly, the term “autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia” refers to those patients with dominantly inherited severe hypercholesterolemia – low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (LDL-C) greater than 190 mg/dL, who likely harbor mutations in genes regulating serum LDL levels. Historically, the more common causes of ADH include “classic” FH, which is a codominant disorder involving aberrations in the LDL receptor ( LDLR ), as well as other codominant forms of “nonclassical” FH, which involve defects in two other genes that regulate plasma clearance of LDL, apolipoprotein B ( APOB ), which is the main protein of LDL (a ligand for the LDLR), and Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 ( PCSK9 ) , which synthesizes a low abundance circulatory protein that limits the LDLR lifespan ( 1 , 2 ). Autosomal dominant forms of ADH include mutations in apolipoprotein E ( APOE ), which synthesizes the main protein of triglyceride rich lipoproteins and signal transducing adaptor family member 1 ( STAP1 ), whose function in cholesterol homeostasis remains largely unknown ( 2 , 3 ). However, recent data have determined that mutations in STAP1 are not a causative factor in FH ( 4 - 7 ). An autosomal recessive form of FH, ARH, is very rare and results from pathogenic variants in LDLR accessory protein 1 ( LDL-RAP1 ). Other forms may be due to defects in lysosomal acid lipase ( LIPA ), ATP- binding cassette sub-family G member 5 and 8 ( ABCG5/8 ), and cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase ( CYP7A1 ) ( 2 , 8 ). Finally, a common form of FH is attributable to multiple variations in several genes each with minor effects on cholesterol regulation (more than 50 loci identified, as opposed to a single large effect as seen in the textbook version of FH). Polygenic causes
