Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


genes each with minor effects on cholesterol regulation (more than 50 loci identified, as opposed to a single large effect as seen in the textbook version of FH). Polygenic causes are relatively common and likely explain many of the patients who are genotype negative. In fact, up to 50% of patients referred to lipid clinics for possible or probable HeFH have a polygenic basis ( 2 ). Additionally, only approximately 2% of patients with an LDL >190 mg/dL and no additional clinical or family history compatible with FH have a pathogenic variant in one of the FH genes ( 9 , 10 ). Thus, having an elevated LDL-C does not necessarily indicate that the patient has ADH due to a pathogenic variation in the LDLR , APOB , PCSK9 , or APOE genes. All forms of FH result in very high levels of LDL-C and increase the risk of early and accelerated coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 8 ). Yet, FH remains vastly underdiagnosed and thus, undertreated, representing an extraordinary missed opportunity for maintenance of cardiovascular health and prevention of cardiovascular events. It has been estimated that less than 10% of the patients in the US with FH have been diagnosed ( 11 , 12 ). This chapter will largely focus on the canonical forms of FH involving the traditional genetic loci described above. GENETICS The LDLR is an 893-amino acid cell surface glycoprotein that binds and internalizes LDL particles, primarily in the liver. Mutations in LDLR (i.e., “classic” FH) give rise to nearly 90% of cases of clinical ADH ( 13 ). Over 2000 such mutations in LDLR have been identified, including deletions, insertions, missense, copy number variants, and nonsense mutations ( 2 ). FH patients can be homozygous (traditionally with a prevalence thought to be 1 in 1,000,000 but based on contemporary genetic studies, the prevalence is thought to be closer to 1 in 300,000), carrying mutations in both alleles encoding for LDLR, or heterozygous (traditionally with a prevalence thought to be 1 in 500, with newer data suggesting as frequent as 1 in 200), possessing mutations in only one allele ( 2 , 14 ). Homozygous FH (HoFH) should be suspected when LDL-C exceeds 400 mg/dL, whereas heterozygous FH (HeFH) should be suspected when LDL-C is greater than 190 mg/dL in adults and 160 mg/dL in children ( 8 ). Patients with HoFH can be true FH
