Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


heterozygous FH (HeFH) should be suspected when LDL-C is greater than 190 mg/dL in adults and 160 mg/dL in children ( 8 ). Patients with HoFH can be true FH homozygotes, with two identical mutations in each allele, versus compound heterozygotes, with a different mutation in each allele. In addition, FH can result in elevated levels of lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]) through an unclear mechanism, not necessarily linked to the dysfunctional LDLR pathway ( 15 - 19 ). Elevated Lp(a), which historically was thought composed of 30-45% cholesterol by mass and reported as part of the LDL-C laboratory measurement, amplifies the already increased risk of incident CAD seen in those with FH ( 19 ). A more contemporary study suggests this range of cholesterol content contributed by Lp(a) to be more heterogenous with a range of 9-57% with a median value of approximately 15-20% in individuals with elevated Lp(a) ( 20 ). A recent evaluation of Lp(a) levels in a Danish Lipid Clinic found that elevated Lp(a) levels were common, with approximately 27% of individuals fulfilling a clinical diagnosis of FH due in part to elevated Lp(a)( 21 ). This data suggests the LPA gene should be considered in the realm of possible causes for phenotypic FH and emphasize the importantance of Lp(a) testing. It is also important to be aware of “founder effects” in some populations. Founder effects influencing the type and frequency of mutations causing FH are seen among Afrikaners, French Canadians, Ashkenazi Jews, Christian Lebanese, and some Tunisian groups. Slimane et al. estimated the prevalence of individuals with HoFH and HeFH in Tunisia to be 1:125,000 and 1:165, respectively ( 22 ). “Nonclassical” FH, which phenotypically resembles classic FH in presentation and severity, involves dominantly inherited gene defects in APOB, PCSK9, and APOE , which code for proteins that modulate ligand-LDL/LDL-like receptor interaction ( 2 , 23 , 24 ). ApoB is the major protein constituent of LDL and acts as a ligand for LDLR. Mutations in ApoB (most commonly a single base change at a position near amino-acid 3,500) block the binding of LDL containing the apoB-100 to LDLR, resulting in severely elevated levels of LDL-C. This condition was originally defined as “familial defective APOB-100” or FDAB ( 25 ). PCSK9, on the other hand, is a circulating protein that terminates the lifecycle of LDLR by binding to it and targeting it to lysosomal degradation. Gain-of-function (GOF) mutations
