Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


25 ). PCSK9, on the other hand, is a circulating protein that terminates the lifecycle of LDLR by binding to it and targeting it to lysosomal degradation. Gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in PCSK9 lead to a FH phenotype, whereas loss-of-function (LOF) mutations lead to lower LDL-C and protection from coronary atherosclerotic events ( 26 , 27 ). Absence of circulating PCSK9 has been reported in a few subjects, who were reportedly healthy and had LDL levels around 20 mg/dL ( 28 , 29 ). Collectively, these observations spurred a frenzy of targeted research that led to the development and FDA approval of therapeutic antibodies against PCSK9 to reduce LDL levels in individuals with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and/or in FH. Mutations in ApoE (an in-frame three base-pair deletion at position 167 in exon 4) block the binding of triglyceride rich lipoproteins (i.e., chylomicrons, chylomicron remnants, very low-density lipoprotein [VLDL-C], intermediate-density lipoprotein [IDL-C]) to the E receptor (belongs to the LDLR superfamily), and limits clearance of these particles from plasma ( 30 ). The prevalence of ADH resulting from mutations in APOB , PCSK9 , and APOE has been difficult to estimate, but it is agreed that these are 5-10%, <1%, and <<1% respectively ( 2 ). Finally, an additional ultra-rare recessive genetic disorder causing hypercholesterolemia bears mentioning. It involves a homozygous deletion mutation in the gene CYP7A1 . This gene codes for the enzyme cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase, which catalyzes the initial step in cholesterol catabolism and bile acid synthesis. The mutation results in loss of enzymatic function and high levels of LDL-C, and was first identified in three homozygotes within a single kindred of English and Celtic descent ( 31 ). There are a number of other rare recessive genetic disorders that are associated with hypercholesterolemia, see table 1 below and other Endotext chapters on these rare genetic disorders ( 32 , 33 ). TABLE 1. RARE GENETIC DISORDERS THAT CAN BE CONFUSED WITH ADH View in own window Disorder Description Sitosterolemia Autosomal recessive disorder due to mutations in ABCG5/8 . Manifestations include hypercholesterolemia, marked elevations of plasma plant sterols, tendon and tuberous xanthomas, and premature ASCVD Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency Autosomal recessive disorder due to mutations in LIPA , which codes for lysosomal acid lipase. Manifestations include moderate hypercholesterolemia with depressed high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), accelerated atherosclerosis, and progressive liver disease. Deficiency of LDL receptor adapter protein 1 Autosomal recessive disorder
