Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


for lysosomal acid lipase. Manifestations include moderate hypercholesterolemia with depressed high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), accelerated atherosclerosis, and progressive liver disease. Deficiency of LDL receptor adapter protein 1 Autosomal recessive disorder due to mutations in LDL-RAP1 . Typically presents with very high LDL cholesterol levels. Deficiency of cholesterol 7-alpha hydroxylase Autosomal recessive disorder due to mutations in CYP7A1 , which codes for the enzyme that catalyzes the first step in bile acid synthesis, resulting in high intrahepatic cholesterol and reduced surface expression of LDLR. An important practical point is that 30-50% of people with the FH phenotype have no readily identifiable defects in any of the genes that have been mentioned here; thus, diagnosing an individual with the FH phenotype does not necessarily mean the presence of a monogenic defect in the LDLR pathway ( 34 ). The genetic confirmation for FH-causing mutations in ADH varies considerably ( 2 , 10 ). The rate of positive genetics is related to clinical criteria - in patients with definite FH based on clinical criteria 60-80% are positive whereas in patients with possible FH based on clinical criteria only 21-44% are positive ( 35 ). Additionally, the LDL-C level is crucial. When LDL-C is very high (i.e., >310 mg/dL), the frequency of monogenic pathogenic variants is as high as 92% ( 36 ). In patients without an identifiable pathologic genetic variant the etiology may be due to an as-yet-unidentified genetic error or to polygenic, epigenetic, or non-genetic factors, including co-morbid and environmental modifiers. For those without a mutation, an elevated LDL-C still confers elevated cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk ( 37 ). However, for any given LDL-C strata, those with a causal mutation compared to those without have higher risk for CVD, likely due to lifelong exposure to high LDL-C ( 10 , 38 ). In addition, unintended consequences of genetic testing (i.e., genetic discrimination for life or long-term care insurance and increased expense) must be taken into account. For these reasons, genetic testing should not be mandated but should involve a shared-decision making model between patient and provider, encompassing benefits and risks of genetic testing, as well as patient values and preferences ( 39 ). On the other hand, others advocate for routine genetic testing citing as the rationale 1) facilitate a definitive diagnosis; 2) identify pathogenic variants with higher cardiovascular risk and therefore needing more aggressive treatment; 3) increase initiation of and adherence
