Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


testing citing as the rationale 1) facilitate a definitive diagnosis; 2) identify pathogenic variants with higher cardiovascular risk and therefore needing more aggressive treatment; 3) increase initiation of and adherence to therapy; 4) facilitate insurance approval for novel lipid-lowering therapies; and 5) cascade testing of first-degree relatives ( 25 ). Cascade screening on the basis of LDL-C alone (i.e., ≥190 mg/dL) has low sensitivity and specificity, however, identification of a pathogenic variant with genetic testing followed by cascade screening results in very high sensitivity and specificity. This is likely due to missed diagnoses of FH with reduced penetrance where LDL-C is <190 mg/dL ( 35 ). Nonetheless, the reduced costs and more widespread availability of genetic testing warrant performance of this test to obtain information that can help the physician familiarize with genotype-phenotype correlations and identify subjects that can be studied for the discovery of novel pathways leading to severe hypercholesterolemia. It must be noted that the FDA does not mention genetic testing as a measure to define FH (either heterozygous or homozygous). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Most circulating LDL particles end up in the liver. The LDLR pathway is the predominant method for LDL uptake ( 40 , 41 ). ApoB binds to a specific binding site on LDLR and the receptor-ligand complex is subsequently internalized from clathrin-coated pits on the cell membrane. The receptor-ligand complex undergoes endocytosis and is targeted to the lysosome, where LDL is released for degradation while the LDLR is recycled back to the cell surface approximately 100-150 times in its 24 hour life cycle ( 2 ). PCSK9 terminates LDLR lifespan by disallowing its recycling, thus providing a physiologic mechanism of protein removal much different from, and stronger than, that caused by inducible degrader of LDL, an E3 ubiquitin ligase ( 26 , 42 ). There are other nonspecific and constitutively active pathways of LDL-C clearance as well ( 40 , 43 ). In HeFH, though transport through the LDLR pathway is reduced by 50%, LDL-C clearance is doubled through these other, non-LDLR pathways. The same holds true for HoFH, where despite a near-absolute reduction in LDLR transport, total LDL-C clearance via non-specific pathways is increased by 4-fold ( 44 ). Excess LDL-C, which accumulates in liver cells, is then re-exported via the apoB system back into the plasma, secreted into bile unchanged, or transformed into bile acids. This increased production of LDL adds to inefficient clearance
