Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


cells, is then re-exported via the apoB system back into the plasma, secreted into bile unchanged, or transformed into bile acids. This increased production of LDL adds to inefficient clearance via LDLR to cause elevated serum LDL levels typical of the FH phenotype ( 45 ). ADH can thus be further classified into subtypes 1, 2, and 3, based on which protein of the LDLR pathway is causative ( Figure 1 ). ADH-1 comprises mutations within LDLR, the canonical form of FH. There are six major classes of ADH-1 (see table 2 below), based on the type of mutation. These include those that: inhibit synthesis of LDLR; impede exit of mature LDLR from the endoplasmic reticulum; affect the binding site of LDLR to apoB-100; prevent the ligand-receptor interaction; prevent endocytosis of the LDLR-apoB-100 complex; or inhibit recycling of LDLR to the cell surface for further rounds of lipid uptake (not shown). ADH-2 comprises mutations of APOB that block the association of apoB-100 to LDLR. ADH-3 is due to GOF mutations of PCSK9 , which reduce LDLR recycling and accelerate its lysosomal degradation ( 12 ). Some authors have suggested that mutations that affect binding of apoB-100 to LDLR carry a less severe phenotype than those that affect LDLR directly ( 46 - 50 ). FIGURE 1 ( 24 ). ADH-1 comprises mutations within LDLR. There are six major classes of ADH-1, affecting: a) synthesis of LDLR; b) exit of mature LDLR from the endoplasmic reticulum; c) binding site of LDLR to apoB-100; d) endocytosis of LDLR-apoB-100 complex; and recycling of LDLR to the cell surface (not shown). ADH-2 comprises mutations in apoB that block the association of apoB-100 to LDLR. ADH-3 is due to GOF mutations of PCSK9, which reduce LDLR recycling and accelerate its lysosomal degradation. Adapted from Calandra et al. J. Lipid Research 2011; 52: 1885-926. TABLE 2. THE SIX CLASSES OF LDLR MUTATIONS ( 51 ) View in own window Class 1: synthesis of receptor or precursor protein is absent The so-called null allele is a prevalent class of mutations and is generally associated with very high LDL-C levels. The molecular basis of this type of mutation shows a wide variety: point mutations introducing a stop codon, mutations in the promoter region completely blocking transcription, mutations giving rise to incorrect excision of mRNA, and finally, large deletions preventing the assembly of a normal receptor. Class 2: absent
