Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


mutations in the promoter region completely blocking transcription, mutations giving rise to incorrect excision of mRNA, and finally, large deletions preventing the assembly of a normal receptor. Class 2: absent or impaired formation of receptor protein This class comprises mutations in which the normal routing through the cell is not complete or is only very slowly completed. Usually, there is a complete blockade of transport, and LDL receptors are unable to leave the ER. The Golgi apparatus is not reached, and the increase of 40,000 Da in molecular weight does not take place. Truncated proteins, as a result of a premature stop codon, and misfolded proteins, as a result of mutations in cysteine-rich regions leading to free or unpaired cysteine residues, are retained in the ER. However, quality control by the ER is not perfect, given the observation that sometimes misfolded proteins leave the ER but are processed more slowly. Such mutations give rise to class 2B mutations, in contrast to class 2A mutations that cause complete retaining in the ER. Class 3: normal synthesis of receptor protein, abnormal LDL binding Receptors characterized by this class of alleles show the normal rate of synthesis, exhibit normal conversion into receptor protein, and are transported to the cell surface, but binding to LDL is impaired. It is obvious that mutations in the binding domain underlie this class of receptors. Class 4: clustering in coated pits, internalization of the receptor complex does not take place The receptors in this class lack the property to cluster in coated pits (class 4A). This phenomenon, which makes interaction of receptors with the fuzzy coat impossible, is caused by mutations in the carboxyterminal part of the receptor protein. These mutated receptors are synthesized normally, folding and transport are normal, but clustering in coated pits is impossible, and sometimes the receptors are secreted even after they have reached the cell surface (class 4B). Class 5: receptors are not recycled and are rapidly degraded All mutations in this class are localized in the EGF-precursor homologous domain of the LDL receptor protein. This domain seems to be involved in the acid-dependent dissociation of the receptor-ligand complex in endosomes, after which the receptor can be recycled. When the entire EGF-precursor homologous domain is deleted by site-directed mutagenesis or when such a deletion occurs naturally in a homozygous FH patient, the receptor is trapped in the endosomes, and rapid degradation subsequently is
