Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


domain is deleted by site-directed mutagenesis or when such a deletion occurs naturally in a homozygous FH patient, the receptor is trapped in the endosomes, and rapid degradation subsequently is observed. Class 6: receptors fail to be targeted to the basolateral membrane The class of mutations was recently discovered and is caused by alterations in the cytoplasmic tail of the protein. Such receptors do not reach the liver cell membrane and are probably rapidly degraded. * Adapted from Gidding SS, et al. Circulation 2015;132:2167-92. CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS Lipid Abnormalities in Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia LDL-C levels are frequently greater than the 90 th percentile for age and gender. The magnitude of the LDL-C elevation is affected by the specific mutations causing FH with mutations in the LDLR leading to greater elevations in LDL-C levels than mutations in ApoB or PCSK9 ( 36 , 46 - 49 , 52 ). Null mutations in the LDLR are more severe than non-null mutations ( 53 ). Additionally, other genes that regulate LDL-C and environmental factors, such as diet, also influence the magnitude of the elevation in LDL-C ( 54 , 55 ). It should be recognized that a significant number of patients with genetically diagnosed FH have LDL-C <190 mg/dL. In some studies, approximately 50% of patients with genetically diagnosed FH have LDL-C levels <190 mg/dL ( 9 , 10 ). HDL-C and triglyceride levels are usually normal or only modestly altered ( 56 - 63 ). Elevated triglycerides and/or low HDL-C do not rule out the diagnosis of FH. Lp(a) levels are frequently elevated in patients with FH and may contribute to the increased risk of ASCVD ( 15 - 19 ). One should exclude secondary causes of marked elevations in LDL-C particularly hypothyroidism, renal disease, autoimmunity, and iatrogenic conditions (see chapter on Approach to the Patient with Dyslipidemia) ( 64 ). Another pertinent secondary cause that should be evaluated, particularly given escalating global rates of adiposity and the myriad treatment approaches at curtailing these trends, include dietary interventions that may induce a hyperlipidemic state. One such contemporary dietary fad that has garnered traction in the weight loss community is the ketogenic diet, which includes low level of carbohydrates (sufficient enough to induce the formation of ketones), moderate protein intake and high fat intake. It is well-documented that the ketogenic diet results in modest LDL-C elevations in most, but for some, can induce marked
