Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


formation of ketones), moderate protein intake and high fat intake. It is well-documented that the ketogenic diet results in modest LDL-C elevations in most, but for some, can induce marked elevations in LDL-C, to the degree of mimicking a FH phenotype ( 65 ). Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease in Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Patients with FH have a 3-13-fold higher risk of ASCVD, and a 20-fold higher risk for early onset ischemic heart disease ( 66 , 67 ). Untreated males with FH have a 50% risk for a fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction by 50 years of age whereas untreated females have a 30% chance by age 60 ( 68 , 69 ). However, it should be recognized that there is heterogeneity of ASCVD risk and much of this risk is potentially modulated by variance in genetic factors ( 70 , 71 ). Other cardiovascular risk factors, such as male sex, BMI, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, low HDL-C levels, and Lp(a) levels modulate the risk of ASCVD ( 66 ). Patients with FH who have corneal arcus or xanthomas are more likely to have ASCVD ( 72 - 74 ). Of particular note, patients with mutations that result in FH have a greater ASCVD risk than patients with equivalent LDL-C levels ( 10 , 38 ). This is likely due to the LDL-C elevations being present from birth (lifelong exposure to elevated LDL-C). This concept is termed "cholesterol-years", which tabulates the cumulative exposure, both degree of cholesterol elevation and duration of cholesterol elevation, as a measure of area under the cholesterol curve. Those with a greater exposure (higher cholesterol for longer) of cholesterol, will go on to develop atherosclerosis at a much more aggressive rate ( 75 , 76 ). This concept also highlights an important framework for early FH detection and treatment as vital interventions for optimal ASCVD risk reduction ( 76 ). Other Manifestations Early onset corneal arcus (age < 45) and tendinous xanthomas, particularly the Achilles tendon and dorsum of hands, are classical abnormalities that occur in patients with FH. Xanthelasma (xanthomas in eyelids) and tuberous xanthoma may also be seen. However, it should be recognized that in the modern era with the increased treatment of elevated LDL-C levels these abnormalities are no longer frequently seen (only 5-35% of patients have xanthoma or corneal arcus currently) ( 77 , 78 ). Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia This is a rare disorder
