Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


these abnormalities are no longer frequently seen (only 5-35% of patients have xanthoma or corneal arcus currently) ( 77 , 78 ). Homozygous Familiar Hypercholesterolemia This is a rare disorder with untreated LDL-C levels that vary but are markedly elevated (usually > 300 mg/dL but often > 500 mg/dL) ( 79 ). Patients who are LDLR negative have higher LDL-C and a poorer clinical prognosis than LDLR defective patients ( 79 ). Lp(a) levels tend to be higher than observed in patients with HeFH ( 16 ). Additionally, HDL-C levels tend to be decreased in HoFH ( 79 ). Tendinous xanthoma, tuberous xanthomas, and arcus cornea may appear in childhood ( 79 ). If untreated >50% of patient with HoFH develop clinically significant ACVD by age of 30 and cardiovascular events can occur before age 10 in some patients ( 80 ). Almost 90% of patients with HoFH suffered a cardiovascular event by age 40 ( 80 ). Cholesterol and calcium deposits can lead to aortic stenosis and occasionally to mitral regurgitation ( 79 , 81 - 83 ). DIAGNOSIS FH, despite its different underlying gene abnormalities, leads to severe hypercholesterolemia and a distinct FH phenotype with markedly increased risk of developing CAD. In general, there are five major clinical criteria for diagnosing FH (see table 3 ): a family history of early CAD (less than age 55 in a first-degree relative in men, and less than age 65 in women), early CAD in the index case, elevated LDL-C (greater than 190 mg/dL), tendon xanthomas (especially in the Achilles and finger extensor tendons), and corneal arcus (which is highly specific in younger patients, but overall an insensitive finding). Mutations in any of the aforementioned genes of the LDLR pathway, when they are identified, are diagnostic. TABLE 3. MAJOR CLINICAL CRITERIA FOR DIAGNOSING FH View in own window When to Suspect FH If LDL-C levels are > 190 mg/dL (4.92 mMol/L) or non-HDL-C levels are >220 mg/dL (5.70mMol/L) Patients with premature ASCVD (<55 years of age in male and <65 years of age in females) Family history of hypercholesterolemia When there is a positive family history of premature ASCVD (<55 years of age in male and <65 years of age in females) When tendon xanthomas or corneal arcus (< age 45) are present on physical exam As has been mentioned in other chapters of this text, when evaluating a patient suspected
