Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


points Presence of corneal arcus in patient < 45 years old 5 points LDL-C 250-329 mg/dL 6 points Presence of a tendon xanthoma 8 points LDL-C > 330 mg/dL, OR Functional mutation of the LDLR gene Adapted from Fahed et al., Nutrition & Metabolism 2011;8:23. Unlike MEDPED criteria, which use only lipid levels, the Simon Broome and Dutch criteria also use family history, personal history, physical exam findings, and genetic testing to establish an FH diagnosis. Again, however, it should be emphasized that FH should be diagnosed phenotypically, as opposed to genetically—most FH patients are genotype-negative and do not possess a clear genetic substrate for their hyperlipidemic phenotype, but they clearly warrant aggressive intervention. It is important to note that in the modern era of earlier recognition, wide-spread statin use and possibly improved dietary messages, it is often difficult to make a definitive or probable diagnosis of FH using clinical criteria (i.e., treatment reduces the development of xanthomas and corneal arcus and reduces or delays the occurrence of ASCVD events in patients and relatives). Similarly, it is often very difficult to know the before treatment LDL-C levels ( 35 ). While genetic screening is not required for clinical management, lipid screening in family members should be undertaken in all individuals by age 20, starting as early as age 2 ( 42 ). Cascade screening—i.e., lipid screening of first-degree relatives of the proband—is infrequently employed but is recommended as the most economical method of identifying new cases of FH ( 43 ). It is the responsibility of the examining clinician to attempt identification of other cases when making the diagnosis of FH in any given patient. A potential novel solution to the underdiagnosis and undertreatment issues that plague the FH community lies in leveraging health information technology. The FIND FH study demonstrated the use of a machine learning algorithm can successfully utilize medical profiles within the electronic health record to consistently identify individuals with probable FH ( 88 ). This new approach possesses the promise of identifying FH patients on a national scale and will hopefully lead to increased initiation of effective preventive therapies and at an earlier time-point as well. TREATMENT Goals of Therapy In genetic disorders causing hypercholesterolemia, aggressive lipid-lowering through lifestyle modification, pharmacologic treatment, and invasive treatments such as apheresis has been shown to decrease angiographically-apparent CAD and reduce cardiovascular events ( 80 , 89 , 90 ).
