Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


51 , 79 , 96 , 99 - 103 ). Data from longitudinal observational studies suggest statin initiation in childhood is both safe and effective, reducing LDL-C burden and corresponding atherosclerosis rates over follow-up of up to 20 years ( 51 , 104 ). The major early statin trials (4S and WOSCOPS) likely had study populations that were enriched with FH patients, given that mean baseline LDL-C ranged from 189 to 216 mg/dL ( 105 , 106 ). Patients should be treated with atorvastatin 40-80 mg per day or rosuvastatin 20-40 mg per day (i.e., high-intensity statin therapy). As monotherapy, statins can reduce LDL-C by up to 60% in HeFH patients but typically display a blunted response (10-25%) in HoFH patients depending on LDLR functionality ( 79 , 95 , 107 ). Updated guidance on statin therapy during pregnancy was issued by the FDA during a drug safety communication in 2021, removing the strongest warning against using statins during pregnancy ( 108 ). Though statins should still be avoided in most women attempting contraception during pregnancy, particular during the first trimester, the available evidence suggest that statins are likely not teratogenic. The updated guidance allows for more flexibility for treating pregnant women as part of a shared decision-making process, particular those at the highest ASCVD risk, including those with FH ( 109 ). The vast majority of patients, however, require additional pharmacotherapy. When intensive statin therapy does not result in an LDL-C level in the desired range additional therapy should be added. Given that ezetimibe is generic, relatively inexpensive, well tolerated, and has evidence for ASCVD risk reduction in a large cardiovascular outcome trial, this is frequently the next drug used ( 110 ). One can anticipate that ezetimibe 10 mg per day added to intensive statin therapy will result in an approximate 20% further reduction in LDL-C. If this is not sufficient one can then use a PCSK9i monoclonal antibody to achieve the desired cholesterol goal. Adding a PCSK9i monoclonal antibody will result in a further 50-60% decrease in LDL-C levels and in most patients will result in LDL-C levels in the desired range. In some instances, if the LDL-C level is far from goal (>25%) on intensive statin therapy one can skip treating with ezetimibe and proceed directly to adding a PCSK9i monoclonal antibody. Bempedoic acid (discussed in more detail below) is an acceptable third- or fourth-line add-on
