Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


therapy one can skip treating with ezetimibe and proceed directly to adding a PCSK9i monoclonal antibody. Bempedoic acid (discussed in more detail below) is an acceptable third- or fourth-line add-on agent if additional LDL-C lowering is needed. It is worth noting that bempedoic acid also comes as a combination product with ezetimibe providing approximately 40% LDL-C reduction in one tablet. This may be pertinent for patients with FH for whom pill burden is a real concern. In certain instances, bile resin binders may be useful in the treatment of FH (for example pregnant and lactating patients). FIGURE 2. Approach to the Pharmacologic Treatment of Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia. PCSK9 inhibitors consist of two therapeutic modalities, 1) monoclonal antibodies (alirocumab and evolocumab) that work extracellularly to sequester the PCSK9 protein, and 2) inclisiran, a novel, small interfering ribonucleic acid (siRNA)-based gene-silencing technology that inhibits mRNA translation and intracellular production of PCSK9 by the liver ( 111 ). The effect of PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies in patients with HeFH has been extensively studied and consistently demonstrate potent LDL-C lowering on the order of 50-60% ( 63 , 112 - 126 ). An analysis of the ODYSSEY trials (FH I, FH II, LONG TERM, and HIGH FH) evaluated alirocumab use (75 or 150 mg subcutaneously every 14 days) in 1,257 HeFH patients. The primary endpoint was LDL-C at 24 weeks; alirocumab resulted in a more than 55% reduction in LDL-C compared with placebo ( 122 ). In another trial, alirocumab 150 mg every 14 days in 62 apheresis patients reduced the primary endpoint, rate of apheresis treatments over 12 weeks, by 75%, with 63.4% of patients completely discontinuing apheresis treatments due to well controlled LDL-C values ( 121 ). The RUTHERFORD-2 trial evaluated more than 300 patients with HeFH randomized to evolocumab (140 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks or 420 mg subcutaneously monthly) versus placebo. At both dosing regimens, evolocumab resulted in significantly reduced LDL-C at 12 weeks compared with placebo (>60%) ( 63 ). In all trials, PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies were well tolerated, with most demonstrating treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) similar to placebo. Clinically, the most common adverse events include: injection site reactions, mild cold or flu-like symptoms, nasopharyngitis, and myalgias ( 127 ). Thus, PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies are very effective at lowering LDL cholesterol levels and safe in HeFH patients. Additionally, there are two cardiovascular outcomes trials that evaluated the FDA
