Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


127 ). Thus, PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies are very effective at lowering LDL cholesterol levels and safe in HeFH patients. Additionally, there are two cardiovascular outcomes trials that evaluated the FDA approved monoclonal antibodies targeting PCSK9. The FOURIER trial evaluated almost 28,000 subjects with stable vascular disease (CAD, stroke, peripheral arterial disease) on optimized statin therapy and randomized them to either placebo or evolocumab. Evolocumab therapy was associated with a 60% reduction in LDL-C and a 15% reduction in the primary 5-point major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) rate ( 128 ). The FOURIER had an open-label extension trial (FOURIER-OLE) which followed 6,635 patients from the parent trial and allocated all patients (those originally assigned placebo or evolocumab) to evolocumab and followed over a median and maximal exposure of 7.1 years and 8.4 years respectively. Those originally assigned evolocumab in the parents study continued to display significant reductions in ASCVD events and even cardiovascular death as compared to those assigned placebo - establishing the important notion of a legacy effect with PCSK9i, where earlier initiation of therapy provides cardiovascular prevention that cannot be achieved when delayed. This study represents the longest follow-up to date of PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies and confirms that attainment of low LDL (30 mg/dL) is both safe and effective for preventing cardiovascular events ( 129 ). ODYSSEY OUTCOMES enrolled approximately 18,000 subjects with recent acute coronary syndrome (1-12 months prior to enrollment in the trial) who were on high-intensity statin therapy at baseline and randomized them to placebo or alirocumab. Alirocumab was also associated with a 15% reduction in the primary outcome, in this case a 4-point composite of MACE ( 130 ). Major guidelines, consensus documents, and expert recommendations suggest consideration of a PCSK9 inhibitor (in addition to background statin +/- ezetimibe therapy) in high-risk patients with established ASCVD and/or in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia when LDL-C values exceed 55/70 or 100 mg/dL respectively ( 92 , 94 , 96 , 97 , 131 - 134 ). Both monoclonal antibodies have an FDA labeled indication for ASCVD risk reduction in patients with established ASCVD. Despite potent LDL-C lowering, a good safety profile, and robust clinical data demonstrating cardiovascular benefit, PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies are significantly underutilized among both patients with established ASCVD and those with FH, with reports suggesting only 1% to 2% of eligible patients currently prescribe PCSK9 inhibitors ( 135 , 136 ). Inclisiran has been thoroughly
