Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


cardiovascular outcome trials – ORION-4 and VICTORIAN 2P, with estimated completion dates in 2026 and 2027 respectively ( 111 ). Though PCSK9 inhibition by monoclonal antibodies and inclisiran are comparable in LDL-C reducing capacity, there are important differences to acknowledge 1) inclisiran has a long biological half-life allowing for twice yearly dosing and possible medication adherence advantages, 2) PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies are administered by patients in their home and inclisiran is to be administered by a healthcare professional in a healthcare setting, and 3) while PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies have robust data proving reduction in ASCVD events, clinical outcome trials with inclisiran are still in progress. Additional considerations with the in-clinic administration of inclisiran include a new medication use process which includes procurement, storage, administration, and billing, which is a new workflow to the cardiovascular community and may take time to acclimate to. There are also the financial implications from the patient perspective as inclisiran is billed under medical insurance, not pharmacy benefits, which has the potential for reduced out-of-pocket expense for Medicare recipients specifically ( 142 , 143 ). Novel approaches to inhibit PCSK9 action, termed third-generation PCSK9 inhibitors, are currently in various stages of clinical development. These include once orally administered macrocyclic peptide agents (i.e., MK-0616), monthly subcutaneous injection fusion protein binders (i.e., Lerodalcibep), CRISPR-based gene editing (i.e., VERVE-101), and PCSK9 vaccines ( 144 ). New PCSK9 modalities offer potential advantages such as oral administration, storage at room temp, and less frequent administration. The magnitude of LDL-C reduction with these technologies is similar to currently existing PCSK9 therapeutics, approximately 40%-60% lowering, except for vaccination, which appears less robust with approximately 10%-30% LDL-C reduction. Time will tell if and how these newer therapies position themselves among the ever-changing lipid-lowering landscape. Bempedoic acid, a novel inhibitor of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-citrate lyase (ACL), an enzyme upstream from 3–hydroxy–3–methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG–CoA) in the cholesterol synthesis pathway, is the newest orally administered lipid-lowering therapy ( 145 ). Bempedoic acid is a prodrug, that is converted into its active form (bempedoyl-CoA) by very long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 1 (ACSVL1), which is expressed in hepatocytes but is undetectable in muscle. Development of this agent was designed to circumvent the myotoxicity commonly associated with historical lipid-lowering therapies, primarily statins. Bempedoic acid was FDA approved on February 21, 2020 for use in patients with established ASCVD and/or HeFH who require additional LDL-C lowering as an adjunct to dietary
