Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


relative risk reduction was seen in the primary prevention cohort (32%) as compared to the secondary prevention cohort (9%), however the clinical significance of this remains to be seen. Bempedoic acid was well-tolerated with small increases in biomarkers such as serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, hemoglobin, aminotransaminases, and uric acid, and rates of gout (3.2% vs 2.2%), and cholelithiasis (2.2% vs 1.2%) ( 151 ). In response to the CLEAR OUTCOMES data, the FDA updated the label for bempedoic acid which now includes “to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction and coronary revascularization in adults who are unable to take recommend statin therapy, including those not taking a statin, with established ASCVD or at high risk for ASCVD” ( 146 ). Treatment of Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The initial therapy in patients with HoFH is identical to the treatment of patients with HeFH. However, statins and ezetimibe may prove relatively ineffective in the treatment of HoFH because the mode of action of these drugs largely depends on the upregulation of functional LDLR in the liver. In HoFH, measurable activity of both copies of the LDLR is absent or greatly reduced ( 80 ). Drug-induced LDL-C lowering is diminished by more than 50% comparing HeFH to HoFH – high intensity statins lower LDL-C 50-60% vs 10-25% and ezetimibe lowers LDL-C by 15-25% vs <10%, respectively (see table 6 ) ( 95 , 152 ). In patients with HoFH, response to PCSK9i monoclonal antibodies varies depending on the specific gene defect. In the TESLA-B trial, 49 patients with HoFH were treated with evolocumab or placebo every four weeks for 12 weeks. LDL-C in the evolocumab treatment arm was significantly reduced by almost 31% compared with placebo. In addition to overall reduction in LDL-C, the trial investigators examined the treatment effect by LDLR mutation status. They found that the response to evolocumab aligns with the genetic cause of HoFH, with a greater reduction in LDL-C observed in subjects with two LDL receptor-defective mutations (i.e., abnormal receptor functionality in both alleles) when compared with those patients with even just one LDL receptor-negative mutation (i.e., nonexistent receptor functionality in one allele). Evolocumab was well tolerated among the HoFH patients ( 153 ). Similar results were seen in other HoFH trials examining the PCSK9i monoclonal antibody (alirocumab) and over longer follow up durations, providing confirmation of durable LDL-C efficacy and safety with this therapeutic class
