Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


from baseline to day 150 was not statistically significant (-1.68%; P =0.90). The absolute placebo–corrected change in LDL-C level from baseline to day 150 was 6.47 mg/dL ( P =0.87). The lack of statistically significant change in LDL values occurred despite a 60.6% reduction in plasma PCSK9 levels with inclisiran use. There were wide fluctuations in LDL-C reduction based on genotype: +26.6% with homozygous LDLR , -26.6% with compound heterozygous LDLR , and -22.5% with other genetic types. A post-hoc sensitivity analysis excluding patients with LDLR null/null genotypes and undergoing lipoprotein apheresis revealed greater reduction in LDL-C from 12.9% to 30%, indicating that inclsiran requires sufficient residual LDLR function to be effective within this population. There were no statistically significant changes in other proteins including apoB, non-HDL C, lipoprotein (a) and total cholesterol. Similar to prior evaluations of inclisiran, the medication was well-tolerated. The lack of positive treatment results from the ORION-5 cannot exclude a small sample size compared to those enrolled in the PCSK9i monoclonal antibody trials, an imbalance in genotypes in the present study, or differing mechanisms for PCSK9 intubation ( 159 ). The upcoming study of inclisiran in adolescent (ORION-13) HoFH patients, Which is estimated to be completed by December 2024, will shed further light on the use inclisiran in HoFH. ( 160 ). Standard triple drug therapy (statin, ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitor) often does not result in a sufficient lowering of LDL-C due to the combination of the very high baseline LDL-C and the relative resistance of patients with HoFH to drug therapy. Currently, there are no published reports of bempedoic acid use within the HoFH population. Novel agents approved specifically for the treatment of severe hypercholesterolemia include microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) inhibitors and apoB-100 antisense oligonucleotides (ASO). MTP is involved in the transfer of lipid droplets to apoB as well as assembly and secretion of apoB-containing lipoproteins in the liver and gut. MTP inhibition thus reduces production and secretion of chylomicrons and VLDL-C. In one study, 29 patients with HoFH were treated with the MTP inhibitor lomitapide for 26 weeks and were followed until week 78. Average LDL-C reductions were 50% (to 166 mg/dl) at week 26, 44% (to 197 mg/dL) at week 52, and 38% (to 208 mg/dL) at week 78 ( 161 ). Real-world observational data of lomitapide from the LOWER registry suggest slightly less robust LDL-C lowering (33%) and LDL-C goal attainment
