Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


38% (to 208 mg/dL) at week 78 ( 161 ). Real-world observational data of lomitapide from the LOWER registry suggest slightly less robust LDL-C lowering (33%) and LDL-C goal attainment (65.4% attaining LDL-C <100 mg/dL, 41.1% attaining LDL-C <70 mg/dL), likely a result of inadequate dose titration (mean dose 10 mg/d, range 5-40 mg/d) due to a high burden of adverse effects with nearly quarter of patients discontinuing treatment due to side effects ( 162 ). Though lomitapide displays potent LDL-C lowering capacity, use is limited as a result of a significant side effect profile consisting of severe gastrointestinal complications and hepatotoxicity risk, as well as high medication cost. Anti-sense oligonucleotide (ASO) molecules bind to specific mRNAs and target them for degradation, reducing protein synthesis in the process. Mipomersen, which was removed from the market in June 2018, is an ASO that binds to apoB-100 mRNA and thus prevents the formation of apoB-100. Mipomersen results in decreased synthesis of apoB-containing lipoproteins, mostly VLDL-C, eventually leading to a drastic reduction of LDL-C levels in plasma. In one trial, 51 patients with either genetically defined HoFH, untreated LDL-C levels of >500 mg/dL plus xanthomas, or evidence of HeFH in both parents were randomized to placebo versus mipomersen for a treatment duration of 26 weeks. In the placebo group, baseline LDL-C was 402 mg/dL and declined to 390 mg/dL; in the treatment group, baseline LDL-C dropped from 440 mg/dl to 324 mg/dL ( 163 ). Evinacumab is the newest addition to the lipid-lowering treatment armamentarium, receiving FDA approval in February 2021 as an adjunct to other LDL-lowering therapies for treatment of adults and pediatric patients originally ≥12 years of age with HoFH, with the age being reduced to ≥5 years of age in March 2023 ( 152 ). Evinacumab is a fully human IgG4 isotype monoclonal antibody targeting a novel, non-LDLR pathway for LDL-C lowering by inhibiting angiopoietin-like 3 (ANGPTL3) ( 164 ). ANGPTL3 inhibition overrides the inhibitory effect on lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and endothelial lipase (EL) increasing the activity of these enzymes, producing a panlipid-lowering effect of apo-B containing lipoproteins (with the exception Lp[a]), reducing lipoproteins by approximately 50% from baseline ( 152 ). Specifically, evinacumab promotes LDL-C lowering through EL-dependent VLDL-C processing and clearance by LDLR independent pathways, thereby decreasing formation of LDL-C from VLDL-C.( 165 ) The magnitude of LDL-C lowering was seen in both HoFH and HeFH populations and
