Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


processing and clearance by LDLR independent pathways, thereby decreasing formation of LDL-C from VLDL-C.( 165 ) The magnitude of LDL-C lowering was seen in both HoFH and HeFH populations and was similar regardless of genotype. Serial coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) evaluations of two HoFH patients enrolled in the ELIPSE HoFH trial demonstrated reductions in coronary total plaque volume (TPV) of 76% to 85% over 10 months of treatment with evinacumab ( 166 ). Evinacumab is dosed at 15 mg/kg of body weight given over a 60 minute intravenous infusion ( 152 ). The drug is well tolerated with adverse effects being infrequent, mild, and transient, consisting primarily of injection site reactions, flu/cold-like symptoms, pain, and fatigue. The long-term safety of evinacumab remains unknown. A recent real-world analysis of evinacumab use across six US academic medical centers, demonstrated good tolerability, potent LDL-C lowering (50.8%), and LDL-C goal attainment (30.4% achieving LDL-C goals of <70 mg/dL) among 24 patients followed for up to 63 weeks ( 167 ). Additionally, a real-world analysis demonstrated that evinacumab can be a complementary therapy to apheresis. A single center US academic medical institution described the use of two patients undergoing apheresis for whom evinacumab was added achieving LDL-C lowering of 42% to 58%, and LDL-C goal attainment of <55 mg/dL in one patient. The study concluded that evinacumab presents a major advancement in the treatment of HoFH and will allow for improved LDL-C goal attainment. Evinacumab will be complementary to ongoing lipoprotein apheresis in many, but for those with less severe residual LDL-C elevation, may allow for reduced apheresis frequency or potentially replace its use altogether ( 168 ). The most recent study of evinacumab was published January 2024 and included an open-label 3-part series evaluating evinacumab use in pediatric patients age 5 to 11 years of age with HoFH ( 169 ). Part A was a pharmacokinetic study of 6 patients which determined that the 15 mg/kg intravenously administered dose utilized within the adult patient population was appropriate for pediatric patients. Part B was a phase 3, single-arm, 24-week open-label study assessing the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of evinacumab in 14 patients. Part C is an ongoing, phase 3, 48-week open-label extension study with a 24-week follow-up designed to assess the long-term safety and efficacy of evinacumab and will include all 20 patients from parts A and B. The mean age for patients in
