Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Genes and Beyond
KEYWORDS: pubmed, ldl-c, patients, hypercholesterolemia, familial, familial hypercholesterolemia, journal, clinical, ldlr, mutations, cardiovascular, cholesterol, risk, treatment, ldl


a 24-week follow-up designed to assess the long-term safety and efficacy of evinacumab and will include all 20 patients from parts A and B. The mean age for patients in the part B trial was 9.1 years, 57.1% of which were females with 71% of patients having biallelic different LDLR variance, with 5 patient's carrying null/null alleles. Additionally, 11 of the 14 of patients already had aortic stenosis at this young age. Baseline LDL-C was 263.7 mg/dL, 85.7% were on any statin, 50% were on high-intensity statin, 100% were taking non-statins (none on PCSK9 inhibitor), 14.3% were taking lomitapide, and 50% were on apheresis. The primary endpoint, mean LDL-C percent change from baseline was reduced by 48.3% with an absolute LDL-C lowering of 131.9 mg/dL at week 24. LDL-C reduction was seen as early as week 1 with near full response witnessed by week 2. Response was independent of age, sex, ethnicity, LDLR genotype, or baseline apheresis use. Evaluation of other lipoprotein parameters included reductions of 41.3% in apoB, 48.9% in non-HDL-C, 49.1% in total cholesterol, and 37.3% in Lp(a). Similar to that seen in the adult population, evinacumab was well-tolerated with no treatment-related serious or severe TEAEs noted and no drug discontinuations due to adverse effects. Immunogenicity potential was minimal with only 1 patient developing treatment emergent antidrug antibodies but no neutralized antibodies. Evinacumab is poised to play a significant role in HoFH management as it offers one of the most potent LDL-C lowering capabilities among existing treatments. Use in HoFH will likely be as an add-on therapy after high-intensity statin, ezetimibe, and PCSK9 inhibition. However, potential barriers to use may include high cost, intravenous administration, and requirement for administration in a healthcare or home infusion setting. Future use of evinacumab may extend beyond HoFH and could entail use in other therapeutic areas such as HeFH and severe hypertriglyceridemia. In patients in which drug therapy is either not successful at lowering LDL-C or not well tolerated one can consider lipoprotein apheresis or potentially even liver transplantation ( 170 ). The FDA has approved lipoprotein apheresis for subjects with CVD and LDL-C >200 mg/dL or without CVD and LDL-C >300 mg/dL ( 171 ). This threshold has been moved to 160 mg/dL, and more recently to 100 mg/dL with FH and ASCVD, thus increasing the target population for cholesterol dialysis at a time when arrival of stronger medications is curtailing
