Boracchini et al. Italian Journal of Pediatrics (2024) 50:167 Italian Journal of Pediatrics
KEYWORDS: visits, respiratory, cases, study, tract, infections, acute, data, acute respiratory, respiratory tract, follow-up, burden, visits cases, follow-up visits, aris


the importance of sons, as expected, pneumonia showed the highest-bur- ongoing surveillance to inform resource allocation and Fig. 1 Number of follow-up visits for 100 cases during epidemiological seasons 2010/2011 – 2023/2024 by ARIs. Abbreviations: ARI, Acute Respiratory Infection; URTI, Upper Respiratory Tract Infection; LRTI, Lower Respiratory Tract Infection Abbreviations Declarations ARI Acute respiratory infection SSN National health service Ethics approval and consent to participate FP Family pediatricians This is an observational, retrospective, non-interventional study. Accord- Modification drug-related research, as issued by the Italian National Drug Agency (an URTI Upper Respiratory Tract Infection approval by an ethics committee in Italy (Italian Drug Agency note on August STROBE Strengthening of the reporting of observational studies 3, 2007). This study was conducted in accordance with the tenets of the Dec- laration of Helsinki and was compliant with the European Network of Centres Supplementary Information for Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacovigilance’s Guide on Methodologi- cal Standards in Pharmacoepidemiology. Written informed consent to partici- The online version contains supplementary material available at https:// doi. pate in this study was provided by the participants’ legal guardian/next of kin. org/ 10. 1186/ s13052- 024- 01754-2. Consent for publication Supplementary Material 1. Ethical approval of the study and access to the database was approved by the Internal Scientific Committee of So.Se.Te. Srl, the legal owner of Pedianet. The corresponding author confirms that he had full access to all the data in the Acknowledgements study and was finally responsible for the decision to submit it for publication. The authors gratefully acknowledge the contributions of all family pediatri- cians who belong to the network Pedianet. Competing interests The authors declare that the research was conducted without commercial Author’ contributions or financial relationships that could be construed as potential conflicts of Conceptualization, R.B., AC, C.D.C.; Data Curation and Formal Analysis, R.B., interest. The authors have no conflict of interest to declare. We affirm that this B.C.; Writing – original draft preparation, R.B., B.C., A.C.; Writing – review and manuscript is an honest, accurate, and transparent account of the study being editing, R.B., B.C., A.C., C.D.C., P.F., C.G., L.C.. All authors read and approved the reported; that no important aspects of the study have been omitted; and that final manuscript. any discrepancies from the study as planned (and, if relevant, registered) have been explained. The findings and conclusions in this report are those of the Funding authors and do not necessarily represent the
