Conditions not primarily affecting the heart
KEYWORDS: wave, patients, ventricular, electrocardiographic, atrial, changes, common, seen, qrs, interval, waves, heart, tachycardia, hyperkalaemia, arrhythmias


resulting from hyperkalaemia may be due to asystole, ventricular fibrillation, or a wide pulseless idioventricular rhythm. Hyperkalaemia induced asystole is more likely to be seen in patients who have had chronic, rather than acute, hyperkalaemia. 2/14 Hypokalaemia Hypokalaemia may produce several electrocardiographic changes, especially when there is total body depletion of both potassium and magnesium. The commonest changes are decreased T wave amplitude, ST segment depression, and presence of a U wave. Other findings, particularly in the presence of coexistent hypomagnesaemia, include a prolonged QT interval, ventricular extrasystoles, and malignant ventricular arrhythmias such as ventricular tachycardia, torsades de pointes, and ventricular fibrillation. Electrocardiographic changes are not common with mild to moderate hypokalaemia, and it is only when serum concentrations are below 2.7 mmol/l that changes reliably appear. Electrocardiographic features of hypokalaemia Broad, flat T waves ST depression QT interval prolongation Ventricular arrhythmias (premature ventricular contractions, torsades de pointes, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation) A prominent U wave in association with a small T wave are considered to be the classic electrocardiographic findings of hypokalaemia. Many authors list a prolonged QT interval as a common finding in hypokalaemia. However, most cases of a presumed prolongation of the QT interval are really QU intervals. Most hypokalaemic patients with true prolongation of the QT interval have coexisting hypomagnesaemia and are at risk of ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de pointes. Patients with a potassium concentration below 2.5-3.0 mmol/l often develop ventricular extrasystoles. Hypokalaemia may also be associated with supraventricular arrhythmias, such as paroxysmal atrial tachycardia, multifocal atrial tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, and atrial flutter. Hypothermia Hypothermia is present when the core temperature is less than 35°C. As body temperature falls below normal, many cardiovascular and electrophysiological changes occur. The earliest change seen in the electrocardiogram is an artefact due to shivering, although some hypothermic patients have relatively 3/14 normal traces. The ability to shiver diminishes as body temperature falls, and shivering is uncommon below a core temperature of 32°C. Electrocardiographic features of hypothermia Tremor artefact from shivering Atrial fibrillation with slow ventricular rate J waves (Osborn waves) Bradycardias, especially junctional Prolongation of PR, QRS, and QT intervals Premature ventricular beats, ventricular tachycardia, or ventricular fibrillation Asystole As body temperature falls further, all metabolic and cardiovascular processes slow progressively. Pacemaker (heart rate) and conduction velocity decline, resulting in bradycardia, heart block, and prolongation of the PR, QRS, and QT intervals. At core temperature below 32°C, regular and
