Conditions not primarily affecting the heart
KEYWORDS: wave, patients, ventricular, electrocardiographic, atrial, changes, common, seen, qrs, interval, waves, heart, tachycardia, hyperkalaemia, arrhythmias


slow progressively. Pacemaker (heart rate) and conduction velocity decline, resulting in bradycardia, heart block, and prolongation of the PR, QRS, and QT intervals. At core temperature below 32°C, regular and organised atrial activation disappears and is replaced by varying degrees of slow, irregular, and disorganised activity. If core temperature falls below 28°C, a junctional bradycardia may be seen. The J wave (Osborn wave) is the most specific electrocardiographic finding in hypothermia. It is considered by many to be pathognomonic for hypothermia, but it may also occasionally be seen in hypercalcaemia and in central nervous system disorders, including massive head injury and subarachnoid haemorrhage. The J wave may even be a drug effect or, rarely, a normal variant. The J wave is most commonly characterised by a “dome” or “hump” elevation in the terminal portion of the QRS deflection and is best seen in the left chest leads. The size of the J wave often correlates with the severity of hypothermia (<30°C) but the exact aetiology is not known. Ventricular arrhythmias are the most common mechanism of death in hypothermia. They seem to be more common during rewarming as the body temperature rises through the 28°-32°C range Thyrotoxicosis 4/14 The cardiovascular system is very sensitive to increased levels of circulating thyroid hormones. Increases in cardiac output and heart rate are early features in thyrotoxicosis. The most common electrocardiographic changes seen in thyrotoxicosis are sinus tachycardia, an increased electrical amplitude of all deflections, and atrial fibrillation. Electrocardiographic features of thyrotoxicosis Most common findings Sinus tachycardia Increased QRS voltages Atrial fibrillation Other findings Supraventricular arrhythmias (premature atrial beats, paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, multifocal atrial tachycardia, atrial flutter) Non-specific ST and T wave changes Ventricular extrasystoles About 50% of thyrotoxic patients have a resting pulse rate above 100 beats/min. Atrial tachyarrhythmias are common as the atria are very sensitive to the effects of triiodothyronine. Patients with thyroid storm may develop paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia with rates exceeding 200 beats/min. Elderly patients may develop ischaemic ST and T wave changes because of their tachycardias. Increased voltage is a common but non-specific electrocardiographic finding in hyperthyroidism, and is more commonly seen in younger patients. Atrial fibrillation is the most common sustained arrhythmia in thyrotoxicosis, occurring in about 20% of all cases. It is most common in elderly patients, men, those with a particularly high concentration of thyroid hormone, and patients with left atrial enlargement or other intrinsic heart
