Conditions not primarily affecting the heart
KEYWORDS: wave, patients, ventricular, electrocardiographic, atrial, changes, common, seen, qrs, interval, waves, heart, tachycardia, hyperkalaemia, arrhythmias


of all cases. It is most common in elderly patients, men, those with a particularly high concentration of thyroid hormone, and patients with left atrial enlargement or other intrinsic heart disease. Treatment of atrial fibrillation in thyrotoxicosis is difficult as the rhythm may be refractory to cardioversion. However, most cases revert spontaneously to sinus rhythm when euthyroid. Multifocal atrial tachycardia and atrial flutter with 2:1 conduction, and even 1:1 conduction, may also be seen. 5/14 Electrocardiographic features of hypothyroidism Most common Sinus bradycardia Prolonged QT interval Flat or inverted T waves Less common Heart block Low QRS voltages Intraventricular conduction defects Ventricular extrasystoles Patients with thyrotoxicosis may have other electrocardiographic findings. Non-specific ST and T wave changes are relatively common. Ventricular arrhythmias may be seen, though much less frequently than atrial arrhythmias. Thyrotoxic patients have two or three times the normal number of premature ventricular contractions. Hypothyroidism Hypothyroidism causes slowing of the metabolic rate and affects almost all bodily functions, including heart rate and contractility. It causes similar slowing of electrical conduction throughout the heart. The most common electrocardiographic changes associated with hypothyroidism are sinus bradycardia, a prolonged QT interval, and inverted or flat T waves. Most hypothyroid patients will have a low to normal heart rate (about 50-70 beats/min). Patients with severe hypothyroidism and those with pre-existing heart disease may also develop increasing degrees of heart block or bundle branch block (especially right bundle branch block). Conduction abnormalities due to hypothyroidism resolve with thyroid hormone therapy. Depolarisation, like all phases of the action potential, is slowed in hypothyroidism, and this results in a prolonged QT interval. Torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia has been reported in 6/14 hypothyroid patients and is related to prolongation of the QT interval, hypothyroidism induced electrolyte abnormalities, hypothermia, or hypoventilation. Hypothyroid patients are very sensitive to the effects of digitalis and are predisposed to all the arrhythmias associated with digitalis intoxication. Non-specific T wave abnormalities are very common in hypothyroid patients. The T wave may be flattened or inverted in several leads. Unlike with most other causes of T wave abnormalities, in hypothyroidism, associated ST changes are rarely seen Uncommonly, patients may develop large pericardial effusions, which give rise to electrical alternans (beat to beat variation in QRS voltages). Myxoedema coma should always be suspected in patients with altered mental states who have bradycardia and low voltage QRS complexes (<1 mV) in all leads. Other
