Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


ABSTRACT This chapter reviews how improvements in the sensitivity and specificity of thyroid tests [total and free thyroid hormones (T4 and T3), TSH, thyroid autoantibodies (TRAb, TPOAb, and TgAb) and thyroglobulin (Tg)] have advanced the detection and treatment of thyroid disorders. The strengths and limitations of current methodologies [Radioimmunoassay (RIA), Immunometric assay (IMA) and Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)] are discussed, together with their propensity for analyte-specific and non-specific interferences relating to analyte heterogeneity (TSH, TgAb and Tg), analyte-specific autoantibodies (T4Ab, T3Ab, TSHAb and TgAb) and interferences from heterophile antibodies (HAb) or assay reagents such as Biotin and Rhuthenium. Currently, between-method differences preclude establishing universal thyroid test reference ranges. However, collaborations between the International Federation of Clinical Chemistry (IFCC), the committee for the standardization of thyroid function tests (C-STFT), and the in-vitro diagnostic (IVD) industry are now focused on eliminating these between-method differences. For complete coverage of all related areas of Thyroidology please visit our Free web-site https://www.thyroidmanager.org . For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Figure 1 shows the timeline for improvements in the sensitivity and specificity of thyroid test methodologies made over the last 60 years ( 1 ). In the 1950s the only thyroid test available was an indirect estimate of the serum total (free + protein-bound) thyroxine (T4) concentration, using the protein bound iodine (PBI) technique ( 2 ). Early technological advances in radioimmunoassay (RIA) ( 3 - 6 ), immunometric assay (IMA) ( 7 - 11 ), and most recently, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) methodologies ( 12 - 14 ) have progressively improved the sensitivity and specificity of thyroid tests. Currently, most thyroid testing is made on serum specimens using automated IMA methodology to measure total thyroid hormones (TT4 and TT3), estimate free thyroid hormones (FT4 and FT3) ( 13 , 15 , 16 ), and measure TSH ( 13 ) and thyroglobulin (Tg) ( 14 , 17 ). Automated IMA methodology is also used to detect autoantibodies that target the TSH receptor (TRAb) ( 18 - 20 ), the thyroid peroxidase enzyme (TPOAb) ( 21 ), and the thyroglobulin protein (TgAb) ( 22 - 24 ). When indicated, the thyroid hormone binding proteins thyroxine binding globulin (TBG), transthyretin (TTR)/prealbumin (TBPA), and albumin can also be measured ( 25 - 27 ). The IFCC and CDC continue their efforts to encourage test manufacturers
