Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


over a FT3 assay ( 13 ). FT4 and FT3 fall into two categories – direct methods that employ a physical separation of free from protein-bound hormone and indirect free hormone estimate tests ( 16 ). Direct FT4 and FT3 Methods Direct free hormone methods have employed equilibrium dialysis (ED) ( 13 , 81 , 82 ), ultrafiltration ( 83 - 85 ), or gel filtration ( 86 ) to separate free hormone from the dominant protein-bound moiety. The IFCC has now established equilibrium dialysis, isotope dilution, liquid chromatography, tandem mass spectrometry (ED ID-LC-MS/MS) using primary calibrators as the RMP for FT4 measurements ( 13 , 32 , 87 - 89 ). Specifically, equilibrium dialysis of serum is performed under defined conditions before measuring FT4 in the dialysate by ID-LC-MS/MS ( 12 , 34 , 35 ). Manufacturers are recommended to use this RMP to recalibrate their FT4 immunoassay tests ( 13 ). However, even direct methods that employ equilibrium dialysis or ultrafiltration to separate free from protein-bound hormone are not immune from technical problems relating to dilution, adsorption, membrane defects, temperature, the influence of endogenous binding protein inhibitors, fatty acid formation, and sample-related effects ( 13 , 80 , 82 , 90 ). Because direct free hormone methods are technically demanding, inconvenient, and expensive, they are typically only readily available in reference laboratories and most clinical laboratories use FT4 and FT3 estimate tests - immunoassay “sequestration” methods (see below). However, a direct free hormone test can be especially useful for evaluating thyroid status when immunoassay values appear discordant with the clinical presentation and/or the TSH measurement ( 15 , 91 ). All current FT4 and FT3 estimate tests remain binding-protein dependent to some extent ( 69 ). EQUILIBRIUM DIALYSIS (ED) Early equilibrium dialysis methods used I 131 and later I 125 labeled T4 tracers to measure the free T4 fraction, that when multiplied by a total hormone measurement gave an estimate of the free hormone concentration ( 81 ). Subsequently, symmetric dialysis in which serum was dialyzed without dilution (or employing a near-physiological medium) was used to overcome dilution effects ( 82 ). By the early 1970s higher affinity T4 antibodies (>1x10 11 L/mol) and high specific activity T4-I 125 tracers were used to develop sensitive RIA methods that could directly measure FT4 and FT3 in dialysates and ultrafiltrates ( 83 , 92 ). Subsequent improvements have involved employing
