Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


125 tracers were used to develop sensitive RIA methods that could directly measure FT4 and FT3 in dialysates and ultrafiltrates ( 83 , 92 ). Subsequent improvements have involved employing more physiological buffer diluents and improving the dialysis cell design ( 82 , 92 ). More recently, isotope-dilution liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (ID-LC-MS/MS) ( 93 ) has been used to measure FT4 in ultrafiltrates ( 94 ) and dialysates ( 13 , 32 , 35 , 36 , 87 , 95 , 96 ). ULTRAFILTRATION METHODS Ultrafiltration has also been used to remove protein-bound T4 prior to LC-MS/MS measurement of FT4 in the ultrafiltrate ( 97 ). Direct FT4 measurements employing ultrafiltration are sometimes higher than those made by equilibrium dialysis, because ultrafiltration avoids dilution effects ( 98 ). Moreover, ultrafiltration is not influenced by dialyzable inhibitors of T4-protein binding that can be present in conditions such as non-thyroidal illness (NTI) ( 90 ). However, ultrafiltration can be prone to errors when there is a failure to completely exclude protein-bound hormone and/or adsorption of hormone onto the filters, glassware, and tubing ( 99 ). In addition, ultrafiltration is temperature dependent such that ultrafiltration performed at ambient temperature (25°C) will report FT4 results that are 67 percent lower than ultrafiltration performed at 37°C ( 97 ). However, FT4 concentrations measured by ID-LC-MS/MS following either ultrafiltration at 37°C or equilibrium dialysis usually correlate ( 100 ). GEL ABSORPTION METHODS Some early direct FT4 methods used Sephadex LH-20 columns to separate free from bound hormone before eluting the free T4 from the column for measurement by a sensitive RIA. However, because of a variety of technical issues, assays based on this methodologic approach are not currently used ( 62 ). Indirect Free T4 and Free T3 Estimate Tests The first free hormone estimate tests were free hormone “indexes” (FT4I and FT3I) – a correction of the total hormone concentration for the influence of binding proteins assessed either using a direct TBG measurement or a binding-protein estimate (uptake) test ( 101 , 102 ). Current free hormone estimate tests are typically automated immunoassays that employ an antibody to sequester a small amount of the total hormone that is purportedly proportional to the free hormone concentration ( 13 , 15 ). Both index tests (FT4I and FT3I) and FT4 and FT3 immunoassays are typically protein-dependent to some extent and may under- or overestimate free hormone
