Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


concentration ( 13 , 15 ). Both index tests (FT4I and FT3I) and FT4 and FT3 immunoassays are typically protein-dependent to some extent and may under- or overestimate free hormone when binding proteins are grossly abnormal ( 80 , 103 - 105 ). As with TT4 methods, current FT4 immunoassays have significant between-method variability and biases (relative to the RMP) that far exceed the biological FT4 variation ( Figure 4 ) ( 13 , 28 , 69 ). Recalibrating methods against the RMP has been shown to significantly reduce biases ( 32 ). It is hoped that manufacturers will continue to work to eliminate between-method biases and establish reference intervals that would apply to all methods ( 106 ). Figure 4. FT4 Between-Method Variability in FT4 Immunoassays. This figure shows deviations in FT4 measurements made by 13 different immunoassays relative to the reference measurement procedure (RMP = ED-ID-LC-MS/MS) ( 89 ). TWO TEST INDEX METHODS (FT4I AND FT3I) Free hormone indices (FT4I and FT3I) are unitless mathematical calculations made by correcting the total hormone test result for the influence of binding proteins, primarily TBG ( 107 ). These indexes that have been used for more than 50 years require two separate tests to estimate free hormone ( 80 ). The first test involves the measurement of total hormone (TT4 or TT3) whereas the second test assesses the binding protein concentration by either a direct TBG immunoassay ( 103 ), a Thyroid Hormone Binding Ratio (THBR) or “Uptake” test ( 102 ), or an isotopic determination of the free hormone fraction ( 80 , 108 ). TBG Immunoassays Data has been conflicting concerning whether indexes that employ THBR in preference to a direct TBG are diagnostically superior ( 109 ). Free hormone indexes calculated using TBG measurement (TT4/TBG) may offer improved diagnostic accuracy over THBR when the total hormone concentration is abnormally high (i.e. hyperthyroidism), or when drug therapies interfere with THBR tests ( 110 ). Regardless, the TT4/TBG index is not totally independent of the TBG concentration, nor does it correct for a lbumin or t ransthyretin binding protein abnormalities ( figure 2 ) ( 104 ). Thyroid Hormone Binding Ratio (THBR) / “Uptake” Tests The first “T3 uptake” tests developed in the 1950s employed the partitioning of T3-I 131 tracer between the plasma proteins in the specimen and an inert scavenger (red cell membranes, talc, charcoal, ion-exchange resin, or
