Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


( 94 , 133 , 134 ). Currently, most FT4 and FT3 immunoassays display significant negative or positive biases that exceed the intra-individual biological variability ( 12 , 13 ). As shown in Figure 4 , all but one of the FT4 immunoassays tested had a negative bias relative to the FT4 RMP. Although the IVD industry is being encouraged to recalibrate their free hormone immunoassays against the RMP to reduce between-method biases ( 13 , 28 , 69 , 87 , 135 ), implementation of a global re-calibration effort has been delayed by cost as well as practical, educational, and regulatory complexity. ONE-STEP FT4 AND FT3 METHODS The “one-step” approach uses a proprietary labeled hormone analog, designed for minimal interaction with thyroid hormone binding proteins, that competes with hormone in the specimen for a solid-phase anti-hormone antibody in a classic competitive immunoassay format ( 15 , 62 , 80 ). After washing away unbound constituents, the free hormone concentration should be inversely proportional to the labeled analog bound to the solid support. Although conceptually attractive, the diagnostic utility of the one-step approach has been shown to be dependent on the degree that the analog is “inert” with respect to binding proteins ( 80 , 94 , 133 , 134 ). LABELED ANTIBODY FT4 AND FT3 METHODS Labeled antibody methods are “one-step” methods that use a labeled antibody in preference to a labeled hormone analog. The free hormone in the specimen competes with solid-phase hormone for the labeled antibody and is quantified as a function of the fractional occupancy of hormone-antibody binding sites in the reaction mixture ( 15 , 62 , 80 , 136 ). The labeled antibody approach is used as the basis for several automated immunoassay platforms because it is easy to automate and considered less binding-protein dependent than the labeled analog approach, since the solid phase hormone does not compete with endogenous free hormone for hormone binding proteins ( 15 , 80 , 137 - 139 ). TWO-STEP, BACK TITRATION FT4 AND FT3 METHODS The two-step approach was first developed by Ekins and colleagues in the late 1970s ( 79 , 113 ). Two-step methods typically employ immobilized T4 or T3 antibody (for FT4 and FT3 immunoassays, respectively) to sequester a small proportion of total hormone from a diluted serum specimen without disturbing the original free to protein-bound equilibrium ( 62 , 80 ). After removing
