Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


immunoassays, respectively) to sequester a small proportion of total hormone from a diluted serum specimen without disturbing the original free to protein-bound equilibrium ( 62 , 80 ). After removing unbound serum constituents by washing, a labeled probe (originally 125- I T4, or more recently a macromolecular T4 conjugate) is added to quantify unoccupied antibody-binding sites that are inversely related to the free hormone concentration - a procedure that has been referred to as “back-titration ( 80 ). CLINICAL UTILITY OF FT4 AND T3 IMMUNOASSAY MEASURMENTS Current reference ranges for FT4 and FT3 immunoassays are method-dependent because of calibration biases that preclude establishing a universal reference range that would apply across methods ( 13 , 68 , 86 ). These biases are evident for FT4 immunoassay methods shown in Figure 4 . Most FT4 methods give diagnostically reliable results when binding proteins are near-normal, provided that a method-specific reference range is employed ( 69 ). However, both TT3 and FT3 immunoassays tend to be inaccurate in the low range ( 78 , 140 ) and have no value for diagnosing or monitoring treatment for hypothyroidism ( 52 , 141 ), although FT3 measurements can be useful for diagnosing or confirming unusual cases of hyperthyroidism. Ambulatory Patients FT4 and FT3 tests are used in preference to TT4 or TT3 measurements because they have better diagnostic accuracy for detecting hypo- and hyperthyroidism in patients with abnormal thyroid hormone binding proteins ( figure 2 ). FT4 typically serves as a second-line test for confirming primary thyroid dysfunction detected by an abnormal TSH, but is the first-line test when thyroid status is unstable (early phase of treating hypo- or hyperthyroidism); in the presence of pituitary/hypothalamic disease (when TSH is unreliable); or when patients are taking drugs such as dopamine or glucocorticoids that are known to affect TSH secretion ( 10 , 104 , 110 , 142 ). Mild “subclinical” thyroid dysfunction is characterized by a TSH/FT4 discordance (abnormal TSH/normal FT4) reflecting the intrinsic complex nature of the inverse log/linear TSH/FT4 relationship ( 8 , 10 , 143 ) - a relationship that is modified by age and sex ( 144 , 145 ). Thus, small changes in FT4, even within normal limits, are expected to produce a mild degree of TSH abnormality - between 0.05 and 0.3 mIU/L (with subclinical hyperthyroidism) and 5 and 10 mIU/L (with subclinical hypothyroidism). An unexpected TSH/FT4 discordance if
