Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


against the RMP the feasibility of establishing universal trimester-specific reference ranges will improve ( 13 , 69 , 135 ). However, binding protein effects will remain, and population-specific factors will still have to be considered. Figure 5. Between-Method FT4 Variability Impacts Thyroid Testing in Pregnancy. The figure shows the upper and lower FT4 reference limits (2.5–97.5%) from 43 published studies of FT4 measurements made in each trimester of pregnancy by four different methods: Abbott ( 1 ), Beckman ( 2 ), Roche ( 3 ) and Siemens ( 4 ). The data shows the expected trend for higher FT4 in the first trimester, resulting from thyroidal human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) stimulation which is maximal in early pregnancy. The data is re-drawn with permission from reference 156 . Hospitalized Patients with Nonthyroidal Illnesses (NTI) The diagnostic performance of current FT4 methods has not been evaluated in hospitalized patients with NTI where the severity of illness, binding protein inhibitors, and drug therapies can negatively impact the reliability of both thyroid hormone and TSH testing ( 10 , 30 , 62 , 90 , 122 , 132 , 181 - 183 ). Three categories of hospitalized patients deserve special attention: a) patients with NTI without known thyroid dysfunction who have a high or low T4 status; b) patients with primary hypothyroidism and concurrent NTI and, c) patients with hyperthyroidism and concurrent NTI ( 13 ). Because the diagnostic reliability of FT4 testing is still questionable in sick hospitalized patients, a combination of both T4 (FT4 or TT4) and TSH may be needed to assess thyroid status in this setting ( 10 , 13 ). In most clinical situations where FT4 and TSH results are discordant, the TSH test is the most diagnostically reliable, provided that the patient does not have pituitary failure or receiving medications such as glucocorticoids or dopamine that directly inhibit TSH secretion ( 110 , 142 , 181 ). Repetitive TSH testing may be helpful in resolving the cause of an abnormal FT4, because the TSH abnormalities of NTI are typically transient ( Figure 6b ) whereas the TSH abnormality will persist if due to underlying thyroid dysfunction ( 184 - 187 ). In some cases, it may be useful to test for TPOAb as a marker for underlying thyroid autoimmunity. Figure 6. Effects of Nonthyroidal Illness (NTI) on Thyroid Tests. Figure 6a shows the magnitude and direction of changes
