Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


to test for TPOAb as a marker for underlying thyroid autoimmunity. Figure 6. Effects of Nonthyroidal Illness (NTI) on Thyroid Tests. Figure 6a shows the magnitude and direction of changes in total (TT4 and TT3) and free (FT4 and FT3) thyroid hormone IMA tests versus FT4 measured by the RMP (ED-ID-LC-MS/MS), as the severity of illness increases, followed by recovery. Figure 6b shows the magnitude and direction of TSH changes as the severity of illness increases, followed by recovery. Data redrawn from reference 188 with permission. Pediatric Patients The determination of normal reference limits for pediatric age groups is especially challenging, given the limited number of studies involving large numbers of healthy children ( 175 - 177 ). Most studies report that serum TSH peaks after birth and steadily declines throughout childhood to reach adult levels at puberty. Likewise, FT3 declines across the pediatric age groups during childhood and approaches the adult range at puberty, whereas FT4 levels for infants less than a year old are higher than for children 1 to 18 years old who have FT4 comparable to adults ( 175 - 180 ). Interferences with Thyroid Hormone Tests Only the ordering physician can suspect interference with a test result and request that the laboratory perform interference checks. This is because the hallmark of interference is discordance between the test result and the clinical presentation of the patient, and most specimens are sent to the laboratory with no clinical information. Failure to recognize interferences can have adverse clinical consequences ( 91 , 146 , 189 - 197 ). Laboratory checks for interferences include, a) showing a discordance between different manufacturers methods ( 196 , 198 - 200 ), b) re-measurement of the analyte after adding a blocker of Heterophile antibodies (HAb) ( 196 , 200 , 201 ), c) performing linearity studies or d) precipitating interfering immunoglobulins with polyethylene glycol (PEG) ( 196 , 198 ). A change in the analyte concentration in response to any one of these maneuvers suggests interference, but a lack of an effect does not rule out interference. Interferences can be classified as either (a) non-analyte-specific, or (b) analyte-specific ( 191 , 195 , 199 ). NON-ANALYTE SPECIFIC INTERFERENCES Protein Interferences Either paraproteins or abnormal immunoglobulins can interfere with immunoassays ( 90 , 202 - 205 ). Congenital TBG excess or deficiency: Free hormone immunoassays and free T4 index tests may be susceptible
