Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


immunoenzymometric assays (IEMA) used enzyme signals; immunofluorometric assays (IFMA) used fluorophors as signals, immunochemiluminometric assays (ICMA) used chemiluminescent molecules as signals, and immunobioluminometric assays (IBMA) used bioluminescent signal molecules ( 112 , 267 ). Current TSH methods are mostly automated ICMAs that achieve third generation functional sensitivity (FS = ≤0.01 mIU/L) - a FS level that has now become the standard of care ( 10 , 13 , 269 ). FUNCTIONAL SENSITIVITY (FS) = THE LOWEST REPORTABLE ASSAY LIMIT During the period of active TSH assay sensitization, different non-isotopic IMAs made competing claims for sensitivity. Methods were described as: “sensitive”, “highly sensitive”, “ultrasensitive”, or “supersensitive” - marketing terms that had no scientific definition. This confusion led to a debate concerning what was the most clinically relevant parameter to use to determine the lowest reliable reportable TSH value for clinical practice ( 10 , 251 , 267 ). Functional sensitivity (FS) became defined as the lowest analyte concentration measured with 20 percent coefficient of variation ( 10 ) established over a clinically relevant timespan (6-8 weeks for TSH). FS is now recognized as the parameter that best represents the between-run precision for measuring low analyte concentrations in clinical practice ( 10 , 270 , 271 ). FS is used to define the lower reportable limit for not only TSH but also Tg and TgAb, as well as other non-thyroid assays for which analytic sensitivity is critical ( 10 ). FS protocols recognize that immunoassays tend to be matrix-sensitive and specify that precision be determined in human sera rather than a quality control material that uses an artificial protein matrix ( 71 , 72 , 272 ). The timespan used for determining precision is also analyte-specific and should reflect the frequency of testing employed in clinical practice - 6 to 8 weeks for TSH, but 6 to 12 months for the Tg and TgAb - assays that are used as tumor markers for monitoring DTC. An optimal timescale is important, because low-end precision erodes over time due to a myriad of variables including reagent lot-to-lot variability ( 71 ). Note that the FS parameter is more stringent than other biochemical sensitivity parameters such as limit of detection (LOD - a within-run parameter) and limit of quantitation (LOQ - a between-run parameter without stipulations regarding the matrix and the timespan used for determining precision ( 72 , 271 , 273 ). A ten-fold
