Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


). This genetic influence appears in part to involve single nucleotide polymorphisms in thyroid hormone pathway genes such as the phosphodiesterase gene (PDE8B) ( 292 ), polymorphisms causing gain ( 293 ) or loss of function TSH receptors ( 294 ), and the type II deiodinase enzyme polymorphisms ( 293 ). Undoubtedly, such polymorphisms account for some of the euthyroid outliers that skew TSH reference range calculations ( 295 ). The narrow TSH within-person variability and low (< 0.6) index of individuality (IoI) ( 287 , 288 ) limits the clinical utility of using the TSH population-based reference range to detect thyroid dysfunction in an individual patient ( 288 , 296 - 298 ). When evaluating patients with marginally (confirmed) low (0.1–0.4 mIU/L) or high (4–10 mIU/L) TSH abnormalities, it is more important to consider the degree of TSH abnormality relative to patient-specific risk factors for cardiovascular disease rather than the degree of the abnormality relative to the TSH reference range ( 13 , 52 , 299 ). TSH REFERENCE RANGES As with the thyroid hormone tests, the significant biases between different TSH methods ( Figure 7 ) prevent establishing universal population or trimester-specific reference ranges that would apply across methods ( 13 , 170 ). These method biases also impact the detection of subclinical hypothyroidism ( 299 , 300 ). Since TSH is a complex glycoprotein, no reference measurement procedure (RMP) is available, or will likely be feasible in the future ( 13 ), given the current lack of commutability between the pituitary TSH reference preparations and patient specimens ( 33 ). A harmonization approach ( 31 , 301 ), whereby methods are recalibrated to the “all method mean”, has been shown to have the potential to effectively eliminate current between-method TSH differences that are most pronounced at pathophysiologic levels ( 29 , 302 ). Better harmonization may also be possible using a reference panel of serum specimens ( 33 ). The IFCC is actively working with the IVD industry to encourage manufacturers to harmonize their methods. A reduction of between-method variability could eliminate the need to establish method-specific TSH reference ranges - a practice that is costly and inconvenient given the large numbers of rigorously screened participants that are necessary to establish reliable 2.5 th to 97.5 th percentiles for a population ( 87 , 303 ). However, even after harmonization minimizes inter-method differences, it remains to be
