Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


hypothyroidism ( 276 , 285 , 396 ). This limitation necessitates that the clinical diagnosis of CH be confirmed biochemically as a low FT4/normal-low TSH discordance. and that L-T4 replacement therapy for CH be optimized using the serum FT4 not TSH. It should be noted that in the absence of clinical suspicion, investigations for pituitary dysfunction should only be initiated after ruling-out technical interference. TSH secreting pituitary adenomas are characterized by a non-suppressed TSH associated with high thyroid hormone levels and clinical hyperthyroidism ( 397 , 398 ). Since this is a rare type of pituitary adenoma (0.7%), technical interferences such as heterophile antibody (HAb) or TSH autoantibodies (macro TSH) should be excluded before initiating inconvenient and unnecessary pituitary imaging or dynamic diagnostic testing such as T3 suppression or TRH stimulation. This clinical/biochemical discordance reflects the TSH isoforms with enhanced biologic activity secreted by the adenoma. As with CH, current TSH IMA methods cannot distinguish these abnormal isoforms from normal TSH. Failure to diagnose the pituitary as the cause of the hyperthyroidism can lead to inappropriate thyroid ablation. The treatment of choice is surgery but in cases of surgical failure somatostatin analog treatment has been found effective ( 398 ). Note that the biochemical profile (high thyroid hormones and non-suppressed TSH) resembles that seen with thyroid hormone resistance syndromes ( 399 , 400 ) or interference from thyroid autoantibodies ( 120 ). Resistance to Thyroid Hormone (RTH) Resistance to thyroid hormone is caused by mutations in the THRB gene encoding the thyroid hormone receptor B and is biochemically characterized by high thyroid hormone (FT4 +/- T3) levels and a non-suppressed, sometimes slightly elevated TSH ( 402 , 403 ). Tissues expressing primarily the thyroid hormone receptor B are hypothyroid (e.g. the liver), whereas organs with a predominant expression of thyroid receptor A (e.g. the heart) display alterations consistent with thyroid hormone excess ( 400 , 401 ). Early cases of thyroid hormone resistance were shown to result from mutations in the thyroid hormone receptor B ( 400 ). More recently the syndromes with decreased sensitivity to thyroid hormones have been broadened to include mutations in thyroid hormone transporters (e.g. MCT8), the metabolism of thyroid hormone (e.g. SBP2), and resistance mediated by mutations in thyroid receptor A ( 401 ) (for detailed discussion see the Endotext chapter entitled “Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism and Action”). These insensitivity
