Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


by mutations in thyroid receptor A ( 401 ) (for detailed discussion see the Endotext chapter entitled “Impaired Sensitivity to Thyroid Hormone: Defects of Transport, Metabolism and Action”). These insensitivity and resistance syndromes display a spectrum of clinical and biochemical profiles and can now be identified by genetic testing. Activating or Inactivating TSH Receptor Mutations Non-autoimmune hyperthyroidism resulting from an activating mutation of the TSH receptor (TSHR) is rare ( 293 , 402 ). A spectrum of loss-of-function TSHR mutations (TSH resistance) causing clinical and subclinical hypothyroidism despite high thyroid hormone levels, have also been described ( 295 , 400 , 403 , 404 ). Because TSHR mutations are a rare cause of TSH/FT4 discordances, technical interferences should first be excluded before considering a TSHR mutation as the cause of these discordant biochemical profiles. TECHNICAL FACTORS CAUSING MISLEADING TSH Non-Analyte Specific Interferences Heterophile Antibodies (HAbs) such as Human Anti Mouse Antibody (HAMA) can cause falsely high TSH IMA tests ( 200 , 220 , 241 , 405 , 406 ) and interfere with neonatal TSH screening ( 407 ). Since the HAb in some patient’s sera interfere strongly with some manufacturers tests but appear inert in others ( 200 ), re-measurement using a different manufacturers assay should be the first test to identify interference. A fall in TSH in response to a blocker-tube treatment ( 43 ) is typically used to confirm HAb interference. Anti-Reagent Antibody Interferences. As discussed for free hormone tests, some patients have antibodies that target test reagents such as rhuthenium and cause interference with TSH tests. ( 408 ). It should be noted that the anti-rhuthenium antibodies of different patients may affect different analytes to differing degrees ( 230 , 409 , 410 ). Biotin Interferences. Tests employing streptavidin or biotin reagents are prone to interferences from antibodies targeting either streptavidin ( 231 ) or biotin ( 233 ). Alternatively, high dose biotin ingestion has been known to produce interference in an analyte-specific, platform-specific manner ( 241 , 411 ). The popularity of biotin therapy is now prompting assay manufacturers to reformulate their tests to remove biotin interference ( 237 , 412 ). Analyte-Specific Interferences Analyte-specific interferences typically result from autoantibodies targeting the analyte. Depending on the analyte and test formulation, autoantibody interferences most commonly cause falsely high test results. It should be noted that transplacental passage of both heterophile antibodies or anti-analyte autoantibodies (i.e. TSHAb
