Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


test methodologies have evolved from semi-quantitative agglutination, complement fixation techniques and whole animal bioassays to specific ligand assays using recombinant antigens or cell culture systems transfected with the human TSH receptor ( 20 , 420 ). Unfortunately, the diagnostic and prognostic value of these tests has been hampered by methodologic differences as well as difficulties with assay standardization ( 423 , 424 ). Although most thyroid autoantibody testing is currently made on automated immunoassay platforms, methods vary in sensitivity, specificity, and the numeric values they report because of standardization issues ( 45 , 377 , 425 ). Thyroid autoantibody testing can be useful for diagnosing or monitoring treatment for several clinical conditions, although these tests should be selectively employed as adjunctive tests to other diagnostic testing procedures. TSH Receptor Autoantibodies (TRAb) The TSH receptor (TSHR) serves as a major autoantigen ( 19 , 422 , 426 - 428 ). Thyroid gland stimulation occurs when TSH binds to the TSHR on thyrocyte plasma membranes and activates the cAMP and phospholipase C signaling pathways ( 427 ). The TSH receptor belongs to the G protein-coupled class of transmembrane receptors. It undergoes complex posttranslational processing in which the ectodomain of the receptor is cleaved to release a subunit into the circulation ( 426 ). The TSH-like thyroid stimulator found uniquely in the serum of Graves’ disease patients was first described using a guinea pig bioassay system in 1956 ( 429 ). Later, a mouse thyroid bioassay system was used to show this serum factor displayed a prolonged stimulatory effect as compared to TSH and hence was termed to be a “long-acting thyroid stimulator” or LATS ( 430 , 431 ). Much later, the LATS factor was recognized not to be a TSH-like protein but an antibody capable of stimulating the TSH receptor that was the cause of Graves’ hyperthyroidism ( 432 ). TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb) have also become implicated in the pathogenesis of Graves’ ophthalmopathy ( 432 - 436 ). TRAbs are heterogeneous (polyclonal) and fall into two general classes both of which can be associated with autoimmune thyroid disorders – (a) thyroid stimulating autoantibodies (TSAb) that mimic the actions of TSH and cause Graves’ hyperthyroidism and (b), blocking antibodies (TBAb) that block TSH binding to its receptor and can cause hypothyroidism ( 19 , 20 , 420 , 427 , 432 , 437 - 440 ). TSH, TSAb and TBAb appear
