Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


with TSAb in the same sera and make interpretation difficult ( 451 ). The most recent development is for second generation assays to use a chimeric human/rat LH TSHR to effectively eliminate the influence of blocking antibodies. This new approach has shown excellent sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing Graves’ hyperthyroidism and clinical utility for monitoring the effects of anti-thyroid drug therapy ( 463 ). Thyroid Peroxidase Autoantibodies (TPOAb) TPO is a large, dimeric, membrane-associated, globular glycoprotein that is expressed on the apical surface of thyrocytes. TPO autoantibodies (TPOAb) found in sera typically have high affinities for an immunodominant region of the intact TPO molecule. When present, these autoantibodies vary in titer and IgG subclass and display complement-fixing properties ( 474 ). Studies have shown that epitope fingerprints are genetically conserved suggesting a possible functional importance ( 475 ). However, it is still unclear whether the TPOAb epitope profile correlates with the presence of, or potential for, the development of thyroid dysfunction ( 474 - 477 ). TPOAb antibodies were initially detected as antibodies against thyroid microsomes (antimicrosomal antibodies, AMA) using semi-quantitative complement fixation and tanned erythrocyte hemaagglutination techniques ( 478 ). Studies have identified the principal antigen in AMA tests as the thyroid peroxidase (TPO) enzyme, a 100 kD glycosylated protein present in thyroid microsomes. Manual agglutination tests have now been replaced by more specific, automated TPOAb immunoassay or immunometric assay methods that use purified or recombinant TPO ( 10 , 420 , 479 - 482 ). There is considerable inter-method variability of current TPOAb assays (correlation coefficients 0.65 and 0.87), despite calibration against the same International Reference Preparation (MRC 66/387) ( 420 , 479 , 480 , 482 ). It appears that both the methodologic principles of the test and the purity of the TPO reagent used may influence the sensitivity, specificity, and reference range of the method ( 420 , 479 ). The variability in sensitivity limits and the reference ranges of different methods has led to different interpretations regarding the normalcy of having a detectable TPOAb ( 377 , 420 , 424 , 482 ). TPOAb CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE Estimates of TPOAb prevalence depend on the sensitivity and specificity of the method employed ( 377 , 424 , 482 ). In addition, ethnic and/or geographic factors (such as iodine intake) influence the TPOAb prevalence in population studies ( 317 ). For example, TPOAb prevalence is significantly higher (~11
