Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


482 ). In addition, ethnic and/or geographic factors (such as iodine intake) influence the TPOAb prevalence in population studies ( 317 ). For example, TPOAb prevalence is significantly higher (~11 percent) in countries like the United States and Japan where dietary iodine is sufficient, as compared with iodine deficient areas in Europe (~ 6 percent) ( 254 , 483 ). The prevalence of TPOAb is higher in women of all age groups and ethnicities, presumably reflecting the higher propensity for autoimmunity as compared with men ( 254 , 483 ). Approximately 70-80 percent of patients with Graves’ disease and virtually all patients with Hashimoto’s or post-partum thyroiditis have detected TPOAb ( 479 , 484 ). TPOAb has, in fact, been implicated as a cytotoxic agent in the destructive thyroiditic process ( 477 , 485 , 486 ). TPOAb prevalence is also significantly higher in various non-thyroidal autoimmune disorders in which no apparent thyroid dysfunction is evident ( 487 ). Aging is associated with an increasing prevalence of TPOAb that parallels the increasing prevalence of both subclinical and clinical hypothyroidism ( 254 ). In fact, the NHANES III survey reported that TPOAb prevalence increases with age and approaches 15-20 percent in elderly females even in the iodine-sufficient United States ( 254 ). This same study found that the odds ratio for hypothyroidism was strongly associated with the presence of TPOAb but not TgAb, suggesting that primarily TPOAb contribute to the autoimmune etiology of hypothyroidism ( 254 ). Although the presence of TgAb alone did not appear to be associated with hypothyroidism or TSH elevations, the combination of TPOAb and TgAb versus TPOAb alone may be more pathologically significant ( Figure 9 ), however further studies would be needed to confirm this ( 254 , 307 , 477 ). It is now apparent that the presence of TPOAb in apparently euthyroid individuals (TSH within reference range) appears to be a risk factor for future development of overt hypothyroidism that subsequently becomes evident at the rate of approximately two percent per year in such populations ( 474 , 488 , 489 ). Furthermore, TPO-positivity in pregnant women is a risk factor for preterm birth ( 490 ). Figure 9. Prevalence of thyroid antibodies in women (A) and men (B). Abscissa TSH values correspond to the upper and lower limits of the intervals spanning each set of bars. Asterisks denote a significant difference in
