Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


in women (A) and men (B). Abscissa TSH values correspond to the upper and lower limits of the intervals spanning each set of bars. Asterisks denote a significant difference in prevalence from the TSH range with lowest antibody prevalence, 0.1 and 1.5 mIU/liter for women and 0.1 and 2.0 mIU/liter for men from reference 307 . TPOAb measurement can serve as a useful prognostic indicator for future thyroid dysfunction ( 489 , 491 ). However, a hypoechoic ultrasound pattern can often be seen before the biochemical TPOAb abnormality appears ( 492 ). Further, some individuals with unequivocal TSH elevations, presumably resulting from autoimmune destructive disease of the thyroid, do not have TPOAb detected ( 307 ). Presumably, this paradoxical absence of TPOAb in some patients with elevated TSH likely reflects the suboptimal sensitivity and/or specificity of current TPOAb tests or a non-autoimmune cause of thyroid failure (i.e. atrophic thyroiditis) ( 254 , 307 , 482 , 493 ). Although changes in autoantibody concentrations often occur with treatment, or reflect a change in disease activity, serial TPOAb measurements are not recommended for monitoring treatment for autoimmune thyroid diseases ( 49 , 479 , 494 ). This is not surprising since treatment of these disorders addresses the consequence (thyroid dysfunction) and not the cause (autoimmunity) of the disease. However, where it may have an important clinical application is to use the presence of serum TPOAb as a risk factor for developing thyroid dysfunction in patients receiving amiodarone, interferon-alpha, interleukin-2, or lithium therapies which all appear to act as triggers for initiating autoimmune thyroid dysfunction in susceptible (especially TPOAb-positive) individuals ( 10 , 110 , 495 - 500 ). During pregnancy the presence of TPOAb has been linked to reproductive complications such as miscarriage, infertility, IVF failure, fetal death, pre-eclampsia, pre-term delivery, post-partum thyroiditis, and depression ( 47 , 76 , 484 , 501 - 508 ). However, whether this association represents cause or effect remains unresolved. Thyroglobulin Autoantibodies (TgAb) Thyroglobulin autoantibodies belong predominantly to the immunoglobulin G (IgG) class, are not complement fixing and are generally conformational ( 509 ). Tg autoantibodies were the first thyroid antibody to be detected in the serum of patients with autoimmune thyroid disorders using tanned red cell hemagglutination techniques ( 478 ). Subsequently, methodologies for detecting TgAb have evolved in parallel with those for TPOAb measurement, from semi-quantitative techniques to more sensitive ELISA and RIA methods
