Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


cell hemagglutination techniques ( 478 ). Subsequently, methodologies for detecting TgAb have evolved in parallel with those for TPOAb measurement, from semi-quantitative techniques to more sensitive ELISA and RIA methods and now to non-isotopic competitive or non-competitive immunoassays ( 45 , 420 , 482 , 510 , 511 ). Unfortunately, the between-method variability of TgAb assays is even greater than that of the TPOAb tests ( Figure 10 ) ( 45 , 420 , 510 - 512 ). Additionally, high levels of thyroglobulin in the serum have the potential to influence TgAb measurements ( 511 ). Between-method variability is influenced by the purity and the epitope specificity of the Tg reagent, as well as the patient-specific epitope specificity of the TgAb secreted ( 513 ). As with TPOAb methods, TgAb tests have highly variable sensitivity limits and manufacturer-recommended cut-off values for “positivity”, despite the use of the same International Reference Preparation (MRC 65/93) ( Figure 10 ) ( 45 , 510 - 512 , 514 ). Whereas the FS limit is the recommended cutoff to define TgAb-positivity for DTC monitoring, the FS is typically much lower than the manufacturer-recommended cut-off for “positivity” ( Figure 10 ) ( 10 , 45 ). This is because manufacturer-recommended cutoffs (MCO) are set for diagnosing thyroid autoimmunity and are too high to detect the low TgAb levels that can interfere with Tg measurements ( 515 , 516 ). Although there are reports that low levels of TgAb may be present in normal euthyroid individuals, it is unclear whether this represents assay noise due to matrix effects or “natural” antibodies ( 21 ). Further complicating this question are studies suggesting that there may be qualitative differences in TgAb epitope specificities expressed by normal individuals versus patients with either differentiated thyroid cancers (DTC) or autoimmune thyroid disorders ( 517 ). These differences in test sensitivity and specificity negatively impact the reliability of determining the TgAb status (positive versus negative) of specimens prior to Tg testing of DTC patients. Figure 10. TgAb Measurements Made by Different Methods. Figure shows the relative TgAb concentrations reported for 143 DTC patient sera with evidence of TgAb interference with serum Tg measurements. Each serum was measured by four different methods each with a different manufacturer-recommended cutoff value for “TgAb positivity” (open bars) and with different experimentally determined ( 10 ) functional sensitivity limits (closed bars). From reference 45 . CLINICAL UTILITY
