Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


A) or TgAb-positive (panel B). Three Tg methodologies were compared: IMA, LC-MS/MS (MS-M = Mayo; MS-Q = Quest), and RIA. Tg measurements below the assay FS limit are indicated in the shaded areas and expressed as a percentage relative to the total number of tests performed with that method. Patients who died of DTC-related complications are shown by solid symbols. From reference 14 . HIGH-DOSE HOOK EFFECT Tumor marker tests employing IMA methodology can be prone to so-called “high-dose hook effects”, whereby very high antigen concentrations can overwhelm the binding capacity of the monoclonal antibody reagents leading to a falsely normal/low value ( 9 , 588 - 591 ). Manufacturers have largely overcome hook problems by adopting a two-step procedure, whereby a wash step is used to remove unbound antigen after the first incubation of specimen with the capture monoclonal antibody before introducing the labeled monoclonal during which the signal binds the captured antigen during a second incubation ( 580 ). When using IMA methodology, it is the laboratory’s responsibility to determine whether a hook effect is likely to generate falsely normal or low values. There are two approaches for detecting and overcoming hook effects with Tg IMA methods when an unexpectedly low serum Tg value is encountered for a patient with known metastatic disease: 1) Measure the Tg in the specimen at two dilutions. For example, a hook effect is likely present when the value of the test serum measured at a 1/5 or 1/10 dilution is higher than that obtained with the undiluted specimen. 2) Assess the recovery of added Tg antigen. If a hook effect is present, the Tg result will be inappropriately low. INTERFERENCES WITH Tg MEASUREMENT Heterophile Antibody (HAb) Interferences HAb interferes with Tg IMAs, but not RIA or Tg-LC-MS/MS methodologies ( 43 , 214 , 221 , 223 , 228 , 592 - 595 ). HAb interferences are thought to reflect the binding of HAb to the monoclonal antibody IMA reagents (murine origin). RIA methods are not prone to HAb interference because their polyclonal antibody reagents (rabbit origin) do not bind human IgG. In most cases HAb interferences are characterized by a false-positive Tg-IMA result ( 223 , 228 , 592 ), although falsely low Tg IMA results have also been reported ( 214 , 596 ). Recent reports find that Tg LC-MS/MS methodology appears free from HAb interferences ( 43 , 595 ).
