Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


typically discordant with Tg-RIA and clinical status ( 45 , 274 , 521 , 556 ). In general, the change in TgAb concentrations tends to be steeper than for Tg-RIA ( 521 ), as would be consistent with TgAb-mediated Tg clearance, perhaps because some TgAbs act as “sweeper” antibodies that facilitate clearance of antigen ( 602 , 603 , 607 ). TgAb Interference - In-Vitro Mechanisms. TgAb interferes with Tg measurement in a qualitative, quantitative, and method-dependent manner ( 22 , 45 , 521 , 608 , 609 ). The potential for in vitro interference is multifactorial and depends not only on the assay methodology (IMA, RIA or LC-MS/MS) ( 39 ), but also the concentration and epitope specificity of the TgAb secreted by the patient ( 22 , 512 , 610 ). RIA methodology appears to quantify total Tg (free Tg + TgAb-bound Tg) whereas IMA primarily detects only the free Tg moiety, i.e. Tg molecules with epitopes not masked by TgAb complexing. Steric masking of Tg epitopes is the reason why TgAb interference with IMA methodology is always unidirectional (underestimation) and why a low Tg-IMA/Tg-RIA ratio has been used to indicate TgAb interference ( 45 , 521 , 555 , 611 , 612 ). The recently developed Tg-LC-MS/MS methodology uses trypsin digestion of Tg-TgAb complexes to liberate a proteotypic Tg peptide. This conceptually attractive approach was primarily developed to overcome TgAb interference with IMA methods thereby eliminating falsely low/undetectable Tg-IMA results that can mask disease. However, recent studies report that a high percentage (>40%) of TgAb-positive DTC patients with structural disease have paradoxically undetectable Tg-LC-MS/MS tests ( 14 , 24 , 43 , 555 , 557 , 558 ). More studies are needed to determine why LC-MS/MS fails to detect Tg in TgAb-positive DTC patients with disease. Possibilities to investigate include tumor Tg polymorphisms that prevent the production of the Tg-specific tryptic peptide ( 38 ), suboptimal trypsinization of Tg-TgAb complexes, or Tg levels that are truly below detection because of increased clearance of Tg-TgAb complexes by the hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor ( 599 - 602 ). TgAb interference with Tg-RIA Methodology. Radioimmunoassay (RIA) was the earliest methodology used to measure Tg ( 5 ). Thyroglobulin antigen (from serum or added 125 I-Tg tracer) competes for a low concentration of polyclonal (PAb) (usually rabbit) Tg antibody. After incubation, the Tg-PAb complex is precipitated by an anti-rabbit second antibody and
