Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


in the same laboratory ( 23 , 45 , 57 , 482 , 511 , 512 , 514 , 535 , 636 ). Serum Tg Monitoring of Patients with DTC Over the past decade, the incidence of DTC has substantially risen with the detection of small thyroid nodules and micropapillary cancers by ultrasound and other anatomic imaging modalities ( 57 , 637 - 640 ). Although most DTC patients are rendered disease-free by their initial surgery, approximately 15 percent of patients experience recurrences and approximately 5 percent die from disease-related complications ( 580 , 641 - 644 ). A risk-stratified approach to diagnosis and treatment is now recommended by current guidelines ( 57 ). In most cases, persistent/recurrent disease is detected within the first five post-operative years, although recurrences can occur decades after initial surgery necessitating life-long monitoring for recurrence ( 642 , 643 ). Since most patients have a low pre-test probability for disease, protocols for follow-up need a high negative predictive value (NPV) to eliminate unnecessary testing, as well as a high positive predictive value (PPV) for identifying patients with persistent/recurrent disease. Because Tg testing is generally recognized as being more sensitive for detecting disease than diagnostic 131 I whole body scanning ( 645 ), biochemical testing (serum Tg. + TgAb) is used in conjunction with periodic ultrasound ( 57 , 645 ). The persistent technical limitations of Tg and TgAb measurements necessitate close physician-laboratory cooperation. The majority (~75%) of DTC patients have no Tg antibodies detected ( 521 ). In the absence of TgAb, four factors influence the interpretation of serum Tg concentrations: ( 1 ) the mass of thyroid tissue present (normal tissue + tumor); ( 2 ) The intrinsic ability of the tumor to secrete Tg; ( 3 ) the presence of any inflammation of, or injury to, thyroid tissue following fine needle aspiration biopsy, surgery, RAI therapy, or thyroiditis; and ( 4 ) the degree of TSH receptor stimulation by TSH, hCG, or TSAb ( 10 ). The presence of TgAb necessitates a shift in focus from monitoring serum Tg as the primary tumor-marker, to monitoring the serum TgAb trend as a surrogate tumor-marker ( 519 ). Figure 12. TgAb Effects on Serial Tg IMA and Tg RIA Measurements. Serial TgAb, Tg-RIA and Tg-IMA measurements made in two DTC patients who underwent a change in TgAb status (panel A, positive to negative) or (panel
