Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


IMA and Tg RIA Measurements. Serial TgAb, Tg-RIA and Tg-IMA measurements made in two DTC patients who underwent a change in TgAb status (panel A, positive to negative) or (panel B negative to positive) before death from structural DTC. These cases illustrate why a Tg measurement cannot be interpreted without knowing the TgAb status of the patient ( 57 ). The de novo appearance of TgAb (Patient B) either reflects a change in tumor-derived Tg heterogeneity (secretion of a more immunogenic Tg molecule), or recognition of tumor-derived Tg by the immune system. In contrast, TgAb can become undetectable despite the exacerbation of disease (Patient A). Figure 13. TgAb Trends in Response to Treatment. Typical trends in TgAb following thyroidectomy in patients rendered disease-free by thyroidectomy (pattern A) versus patents with persistent/recurrent disease (pattern B). TgAb levels may rise or become detectable de novo in response to an increase in Tg antigen following surgical injury, lymph node recurrence(s), lymph node resection(s), FNA biopsy of metastatic lymph nodes or radioiodine therapy. PRE-OPERATIVE Tg MEASUREMENT An elevated Tg is merely a non-specific indicator of thyroid pathology and cannot be used to diagnose malignancy ( 568 ). However, studies have reported that a Tg elevation detected decades before a DTC diagnosis, is a risk factor for thyroid malignancy ( 567 - 569 , 646 - 648 ). This suggests that most thyroid cancers secrete Tg protein to an equal or greater degree than normal thyroid tissue, underscoring the importance of using Tg as a DTC tumor marker. Approximately 50 percent of DTC patients have an elevated preoperative serum Tg the highest being seen in follicular > oncocytic (formerly “Hurthle cell cancer”) > papillary thyroid carcinoma ( 567 - 569 ). Up to one-third of tumors may be poor Tg secretors relative to tumor mass, especially BRAF-positive tumors that are associated with reduced expression of Tg protein ( 649 ). Although current guidelines do not recommend routine pre-operative serum Tg measurement ( 57 , 549 , 650 ), some believe that a preoperative serum Tg (drawn before or more than two weeks after FNA) can provide information regarding the tumor’s intrinsic ability to secrete Tg and thus aid with the interpretation of postoperative Tg changes ( 567 - 569 , 648 , 650 ). For example, knowing that a tumor is an inefficient Tg secretor could prompt a physician to focus more on anatomic imaging
