Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


( 567 - 569 , 648 , 650 ). For example, knowing that a tumor is an inefficient Tg secretor could prompt a physician to focus more on anatomic imaging and less on postoperative Tg monitoring ( 649 , 651 , 652 ). POST-OPERATIVE Tg MEASUREMENT Because TSH exerts such a strong influence on serum Tg concentrations it is important to promptly initiate thyroid hormone therapy after surgery to establish a stable post-operative Tg baseline to begin biochemical monitoring. When surgery is followed by RAI treatment it may take time (months) to establish a stable Tg baseline because the Tg rises in response to TSH-stimulation and may be augmented by Tg release from radiolytic damage of the thyroid remnant. Short-term rhTSH stimulation is expected to produce an approximate 10-fold serum Tg elevation ( 561 ), whereas chronic endogenous TSH stimulation following thyroid hormone withdrawal results in an approximate 20-fold serum Tg rise ( 653 ). Serum Tg measurements performed as early as 6 to 8 weeks after thyroidectomy have been shown to have prognostic value - the higher the serum Tg the greater the risk of persistent/recurrent disease ( 526 , 654 , 655 ). Since the half-life of Tg in the circulation approximates 3 days ( 656 ), the acute Tg release resulting from the surgical trauma and healing of surgical margins should largely resolve within the first six months, provided that post-operative thyroid hormone therapy prevents TSH from rising. Patients who receive RAI for remnant ablation may exhibit a slow Tg decline over subsequent years, presumably reflecting the long-term radiolytic destruction of remnant tissue ( 657 , 658 ). The Tg secretion expected from the ~1 gram of normal remnant tissue left after thyroidectomy ( 580 ) is expected to produce a serum Tg concentration ~1.0 µg/L, provided TSH is not elevated ( 10 ). A recent study found that in the first six months following thyroidectomy (without RAI treatment) disease-free PTC patients had a serum Tg nadir < 0.5 µg/L when TSH was maintained below 0.5 mIU/L ( 274 , 581 , 582 ). This is consistent with earlier studies using receiver operator curve (ROC) analysis that found a 6-week serum Tg of <1.0 µg/L, when measured during TSH suppression, had a 98 percent negative predictive value (NPV) for disease (although positive predictive value (PPV) was only 43 percent) ( 654 ). LONG-TERM Tg MONITORING (WITHOUT TSH
