Assay of Thyroid Hormone and Related Substances
KEYWORDS: thyroid, tsh, pubmed, free, clin, hormone, tgab, serum, methods, patients, reference, tests, clinical, interference, measurement


recommended ( 683 ). There is still controversy whether TgAb interferes with FNA-Tg analyses ( 528 , 684 ). It should be noted that when the serum TgAb concentration is high there can be TgAb contamination of the FNA wash fluid. Although a ~40-fold dilution of TgAb in the wash fluid would be expected, this could still be insufficient to lower TgAb below detection and eliminate the possibility of TgAb interference with the FNA-Tg IMA test producing a falsely low result. The FNA needle wash-out procedure can also be used to detect calcitonin in neck masses of patients with primary and metastatic medullary thyroid cancer ( 680 , 693 , 694 ). In addition, FNA-PTH determinations may be useful for identifying lymph nodes arising from parathyroid tissue ( 680 ). THYROID SPECIFIC mRNAs USED AS THYROID TUMOR MARKERS Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) has been used to detect thyroid-specific mRNAs (Tg, TSHR, TPO and NIS) in the peripheral blood of patients with DTC ( 579 , 695 - 697 ). Initial studies suggested that circulating Tg mRNA might be employed as a useful tumor marker for thyroid cancer, especially in TgAb-positive patients in whom Tg measurements were subject to TgAb interference ( 695 , 698 , 699 ). More recently, this approach has been applied to the detection of NIS, TPO, and TSH receptor (TSHR) mRNAs ( 699 , 700 ). Although some studies have suggested that thyroid specific mRNA measurements could be useful for cancer diagnosis and detecting recurrent disease, most studies have concluded that they offer no advantages over sensitive serum Tg measurements ( 579 , 699 , 701 ). Further, the recent report of false positive Tg mRNA results in patients with congenital athyreosis ( 702 ) suggests that Tg mRNA can arise as an assay artifact originating from non-thyroid tissues, or illegitimate transcription ( 703 , 704 ). Conversely, false negative Tg mRNA results have also been observed in patients with documented metastatic disease ( 705 , 706 ). Although Tg, TSHR, NIS and TPO are generally considered “thyroid specific” proteins, mRNAs for these antigens have been detected in non-thyroidal tissues such as lymphocytes, leukocytes, kidney, hepatocytes, brown fat and skin ( 427 , 707 , 708 )). Additional sources of variability in mRNA analyses relate to the use of primers that detect splice variants, sample-handling techniques that introduce variability, and difficulties in quantifying the mRNA
