applyparastyle “fig//caption/p” parastyle “FigCapt”
KEYWORDS: day, day day, negative, patient, feb, feb feb, illness, sars-cov-, rna, hospital, covid-, positive, hospital day, patients, count


applyparastyle “fig//caption/p” parastyle “FigCapt” The Journal of Infectious Diseases BRIEF REPORT A 55-Day-Old Female Infant Infected symptoms, chest imaging, and viral ribonucleic acid (RNA) in pharyngeal swabs. The nasopharyngeal swab obtained from the With 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease: infant also tested positive for severe acute respiratory syndrome Presenting With Pneumonia, Liver coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) on real-time, reverse-transcription Injury, and Heart Damage polymerase-chain-reaction (RT-PCR) assay. Yuxia Cui,1,a Maolu Tian,2,a Dong Huang,1 Xike Wang,1 Yuying Huang,1 Li Fan,1 Liang Wang,1 Yun Chen,1 Wenpu Liu,1 Kai Zhang,1 Yue Wu,1 Zhenzhong Yang,1 Jing Tao,1 Jie Feng,1 Kaiyu Liu,1 Xianwei Ye,3 Rongpin Wang,4 Xiangyan Zhang,3 and PATIENTS AND METHODS Yan Zha2 On admission, the physical examination showed that vital signs China lung (Figure 1A). Laboratory results reflected there were alter- ations in hepatic function measures and mildly abnormal myo- Background. Previous studies on the pneumonia outbreak cardial zymogram (Table 1). Lymphocyte count, platelet count, caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) were CD8+ T lymphocyte count, and serum immunoglobulin (Ig)M mainly based on information from adult populations. Limited level were all mildly elevated. Other laboratory examinations data are available for children with COVID-19, especially for infected infants. including hemoglobin, D-dimer, activated partial thrombo- Methods. We report a 55-day-old case with COVID-19 plastin time, prothrombin time, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte confirmed in China and describe the identification, diagnosis, sedimentation rate, and renal function in this patient showed ease progression from day 7 to day 11 of illness. deoxyribonucleic acid in blood were negative. Based on the def- Results. This case highlights that children with COVID-19 inite contact history and the above test results, the infant was can also present with multiple organ damage and rapid disease diagnosed as COVID-19 (ordinary type). She was isolated and changes. treated empirically with the inhaled interferon α-1b (15 μg, Conclusions. When managing such infant patients with bid), amoxicillin potassium clavulanate (30 mg/kg, q8h, intra- venous glucose tolerance test [IVGTT]), reduced glutathione, Keywords. COVID-19 pneumonia; heart damage; liver ursodeoxycholic acid, and traditional Chinese medicine lotus injury. qingwen. On days 2 through 6 of hospitalization (days 7 through 11 of A 55-day-old otherwise healthy female infant of mixed feeding illness), the patient became sicker, presenting as a frequently became ill with rhinorrhoea and a dry cough on January 28, productive cough accompanied by occasional tachycardia Before the onset of symptoms, she had been taken to Lu’an, tial pressures (lowest PaO, 56 mmHg) with
