applyparastyle “fig//caption/p” parastyle “FigCapt”
KEYWORDS: day, day day, negative, patient, feb, feb feb, illness, sars-cov-, rna, hospital, covid-, positive, hospital day, patients, count


On days 7 through 12 of hospitalization (days 12 through 17 positive. BRIEF REPORT • jid 2020:XX (XX XXXX) • 3 heart rate fluctuated between 120 and 140 beats per minute. The laboratory examinations on hospital day 10 showed ele- vated myocardial zymogram and abnormal liver function both scan showed patchy shadows and ground-glass opacity were ob- viously absorbed (Figure 1C). In view of the patient’s clinical manifestations and other laboratory findings, the Citrobacter freundii in 2 sputum cultures was considered as a colonized bac- teria of the respiratory tract and was not being treated. Three pharyngeal swabs obtained from hospital day 10 to hospital day 13 were found to be negative for SARS-CoV-2 on RT-PCR as- says. Amoxicillin potassium clavulanate was discontinued on following day. According to the latest interim guidance of the COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment in China, the patient met the discharge criteria. However, we found that her anal swabs collected on hospital day 11 and 13 were still positive for SARS- CoV-2 RNA. Thus, the patient remained hospitalized. From continued isolation and observation. In the process of manu- script revision, we have learned that she was still asymptomatic during this period, and the anal swab collected on February 28, 2020 was negative for this viral RNA. Regarding the patient’s mother, we have learned that this viral RNA had been detected in the mother’s stool sample on February 4, 2020 (illness day 8) and anal swab on February 7, 2020 (illness day 11), although she also had no abdominal symp- toms. In addition, 3 consecutive tests of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in the monther’s breastmilk were negative between February 2, 2020 and February 4, 2020. The mother’s urine specimen col- lected on February 6, 2020 was negative for SARS-CoV-2. DISCUSSION The SARS-CoV-2 infection can lead to acute resolved or fatal pneumonia. Currently, the main source of infection is COVID- 19 patients. The route of human-to-human transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is mainly through respiratory droplets and con- tacts. The fecal-oral route and maternal-infant transmission have not been confirmed or ruled out. Although the number acteristics of affected pediatric patients is rare. We have learned that Middle East respiratory syndrome-coronavirus (MERS- CoV) in children is less frequent and seems to be associated with less mortality unless the patient has underlying comorbidities . This impression in children with MERS-CoV was also reported during the SARS-CoV infections in pediatric patients, Figure 1. Continued in
