applyparastyle “fig//caption/p” parastyle “FigCapt”
KEYWORDS: day, day day, negative, patient, feb, feb feb, illness, sars-cov-, rna, hospital, covid-, positive, hospital day, patients, count


Given the patient’s definite contact history CoV-2 RNA in the stool turns negative is worth exploring. of COVID-19, positive SARS-CoV-2 RNA, and good re- Just like the other 2 studies , we found no evidence of sponse to treatment, the 2 injuries were thought to be re- viral shedding in urine of the patient’s monther. However, lated to COVID-19. Elevated CD8+ cell count in peripheral improved systematic serial collection and testing of an in- blood and increased serum IgM level on admission might creased number of urine samples is warranted to exclude indicate that both cellular immune and humoral immune in this route of transmission. Finally, our understanding of acute infection have been activated to produce cytotoxic T COVID-19 is changing on a daily basis, and with continuous lymphocyte and antibodies to kill and neutralize the virus. efforts from all sides, we hope and believe that this abomi- Huang et al found that SARS-CoV-2 infection appears to nable disease can be controlled soon. be initially associated with an increased T helper 2 cell re- sponse, which might reflect a physiological reaction to sup- Notes press overt inflammatory responses. Acknowledgments. We thank the infant and her parents in- Our case patient initially presented with mild dry cough volved in the study. We acknowledge all healthcare workers and no fevers. However, from day 7 of her illness, her symp- involved in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with 2019 toms were gradually getting worse, especially on day 9 of Novel Coronavirus Disease in Guizhou Provincial People’s her illness, coinciding with results of the second chest CT Hospital. scan. The timing of our patient’s progression is consistent Financial support. This study was supported by the Cultivation with that reported in adults . Due to the lack of ef- Fund from National Natural Science Foundation of Guizhou fective verbal communication with infants, more frequent people’s Hospital (Number: 5764-02) to Dr Cui. and careful clinical monitorings should be performed Potential conflicts of interest. All authors: No reported con- to find disease progression. When the patient’s status flicts of interest. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form was worsening, symptomatic support was strengthened. for Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest. The funder had Corticosteroids were not used in this patient, because her no role in the design and conduct of the study; collection, man- agement, analysis, and interpretation of the data; preparation, there is still no
