Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


ABSTRACT Muslims contribute to 25% of the world population and majority of them reside in the diabetes and obesity endemic Asia-Pacific region. Fasting during Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam and an obligatory duty for all healthy adolescents and adult Muslims. However, Islam exempts the ill and pregnant women from fasting. Despite this, many individuals with diabetes who are at high risk from fasting, fast during Ramadan. Individuals fasting during Ramadan are less likely to see their physicians before starting the fast and more likely to fast against medical advice. Hence, these individuals are at increased risk of hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, and cardiovascular and renal complications. Management of diabetes during Ramadan needs a comprehensive and integrated planning and dissemination of knowledge through the healthcare providers and Muslim religious leaders. Diabetes care should start in the pre-Ramadan period, continue through Ramadan, and follow-up in the post-Ramadan period. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Muslims contribute to approximately 25% of world population and are distributed across >200 countries across the globe ( 1 , 2 ). Of this, 61.7% of Muslims live in Asia-Pacific region, which is also a region experiencing the diabetes epidemic ( 3 , 4 ). Ramadan is the 9th holy month of the Islamic lunar calendar. Fasting during Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam ( 5 ). Fasting during Ramadan is an obligatory duty for all healthy adolescents and adult Muslims aimed at spiritual and holistic wellbeing of the individual ( 1 , 5 ). The Holy Quran exempts the sick, medically unfit, or those traveling from fasting during the holy month ( 1 , 5 ). Fasting during Ramadan involves complete abstinence from food, medication, drink (including water), or any other form of nutrition (including via a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube) from dawn to sunset ( 1 , 2 , 6 ). The fasting during Ramadan is a type of intermittent fasting as it is observed for 10–21 hours depending on the geographical location and solar season and is observed daily for 29–30 consecutive days ( 1 , 2 ). Individuals fasting during Ramadan take two main meals, Suhoor (pre-dawn meal) and Iftar (post sunset meal) and eat nothing from sunrise to sunset ( 1 , 2 , 6 ). It is estimated that about 79% of Muslims with type
