Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


meal) and Iftar (post sunset meal) and eat nothing from sunrise to sunset ( 1 , 2 , 6 ). It is estimated that about 79% of Muslims with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and about 43% of them with type 1 diabetes (T1D) fast during Ramadan ( 7 ). Of those who fast during Ramadan, 64% fasted every day, and 94.2% fasted for at least 15 days ( 8 ). The medication timings of these individuals with diabetes need to be adjusted to pre-dawn and post-sunset timings ( 1 , 2 ). Also, many of these individuals fast against medical advice ( 9 , 10 ). Since a huge proportion of individuals with diabetes fast during Ramadan, and many are at risk due to fasting, management of diabetes during Ramadan and proper fasting guidance is critical ( 1 , 2 ). EFFECTS OF FASTING DURING RAMADAM Physiological Changes Fasting during Ramadan is associated with a number of physiological changes. CHANGES IN FEEDING PATTERNS AND ENERGY INTAKE Ramadan fasting differs from other forms of fasting as there is no consumption of any food or drink between dawn and sunset. Hence, the timing between the meals is very long, and this disrupts the normal physiology with disruption in the normal rhythm and fluctuations seen in various homeostasis and endocrine processes ( Figure 1 ). Major changes occur in glucose homeostasis in individuals with diabetes that results in post Iftar hyperglycemia and risk of hypoglycemia during the day ( Figures 2 and 3 ) Figure 1. Changes in feeding patterns and energy intake during various fasting periods ( 11 , 12 ). (I) normal feeding, (II) Ramadan fasting and (III) prolonged fasting and starvation. Figure 2. Mean continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) profiles from healthy individuals ( 12 , 13 ). Figure 3. Mean continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) profiles from individuals with diabetes fasting during Ramadan ( 12 , 13 ). DECREASE IN TOTAL SLEEP TIME Total sleep time decreases by approximately 1 hour, with a decrease in sleep period time, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep proportion and duration. Additionally, delayed sleep and an increase in non-REM sleep proportion, sleep latency, and daytime sleepiness by1-point on the Epworth sleepiness scale is also observed (ESS) ( 12 ). ALTERATION OF CIRCADIAN RHYTHM AND HORMONE LEVELS Sudden alteration of circadian rhythm and hormone levels occurs due to sudden changes in sleep and wake cycles and feeding
