Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


( 12 ). ALTERATION OF CIRCADIAN RHYTHM AND HORMONE LEVELS Sudden alteration of circadian rhythm and hormone levels occurs due to sudden changes in sleep and wake cycles and feeding patterns. Fasting can induce epigenetic changes in genes that control the circadian rhythm ( 12 ). The change in circadian rhythm triggers many catametabolic changes, alteration in temperature, and changes in the normal rhythm of hormones like insulin, glucagon, leptin, ghrelin, cortisol, melatonin, growth hormone, and testosterone ( 12 , 14 ). The various changes seen are: 1. Insulin resistance and increased glucagon levels: excessive glycogen breakdown and increased gluconeogenesis 2. Cortisol circadian rhythm shows a shift with a blunting of the morning to evening ratio. However, serum cortisol levels do not change by end of Ramadan month. 3. Morning adiponectin levels are reduced 4. Morning and evening growth hormone levels are reduced 5. Large increases in morning leptin levels 6. No major shifts in diurnal ghrelin level By the end of Ramadan significant decrease in serum levels of ghrelin, leptin, and melatonin are observed along with modest reductions in testosterone in men. SHIFT IN FLUID BALANCE A sudden shift in fluid balance is seen because of an absolute restriction of fluid intake between dawn and sunset. This may precipitate dehydration in a hot climate which may in turn cause hypotension and falls ( 6 ). Uncontrolled hyperglycemia can exacerbate the dehydration due to an osmotic diuresis ( 6 ). Dehydration in individuals with T2D can present as low blood pressure, lethargy, or syncope. Dehydration can also increase the risk of thrombosis and stroke due to hemoconcentration and hypercoagulability ( 6 ). Other fluid related changes are not considered a major cause of concern and include higher fluid and total water intake between sunset and dawn; urine osmolality increases significantly in the afternoon to conserve water and reduce urine output ( 12 ). ALTERED ENERGY BALANCE Altered energy balance is seen due to a sudden increase in food intake at Iftar. During Ramadan there is a reduction in activity and energy expenditure which is offset by the reduced time spent during sleep ( 12 ). GUT MICROBIOTA Intermittent fasting during Ramadan can have direct impact on the gut microbiota which could lead to positive changes in health ( 12 ). LIPID CHANGES Fasting during Ramadan has been shown to be associated with a significant increase in high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) and
