Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


could lead to positive changes in health ( 12 ). LIPID CHANGES Fasting during Ramadan has been shown to be associated with a significant increase in high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) and a significant decrease in total triglycerides, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) ( 6 , 15 ). Physical and Mental Wellbeing Fasting during Ramadan can have both positive and negative effects on the physical and mental wellbeing of the individuals ( Table 1 ) ( 16 ). Table 1. Positive and Negative Effects on Physical and Mental Wellbeing of Individuals Fasting During Ramadan ( 16 ). View in own window Positive benefits Negative effects Sense of fulfilment Sleep deprivation and disruption of circadian rhythm leading to an increase in fatigue and reduction in cognition More lethargy Improvements in: Weight and BMI Self-control and ability to resist temptations Glucose excursions causing feelings of being unwell Greater sense of: Empathy for less fortunate Community Fostering relationships Heightened feelings of fear for diabetes related complications Participation in Sunnah practices for greater spiritual benefits Temporary changes in weight Reducing potentially harmful vices, such as smoking, for greater physical and mental wellbeing Short term feelings of stress anxiety, irritability, and agitation BMI- body mass index The month long fasting during Ramadan has been associated with significant reduction in weight, waist circumference, and fat mass, especially in those who are overweight or obese ( 15 , 17 ). RISKS OF FASTING DURING RAMADAN IN INDIVIDUALS WITH DIABETES The various risks of fasting in individuals with diabetes who fast during Ramadan are: 1. Hyperglycemia 2. Hypoglycemia 3. Macrovascular: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) including stroke 4. Microvascular: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) 5. Dehydration Dual Risk of Hyperglycemia and Hypoglycemia In people with diabetes fasting during Ramadan there can be an increase in glucose variability and therefore there is increased risk of both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia ( 12 ). HYPERGLYCEMIA The meals at Iftar are calorie dense and can cause a significant and rapid rise in blood glucose (BG) levels in people with diabetes ( 12 ). The EPIDIAR study showed that the hospitalization rate for severe hyperglycemia during Ramadan increased significantly in individuals with T2D (P<0.001). The hospitalization rate for severe hyperglycemia (with or without ketoacidosis) during Ramadan increased insignificantly for individuals with T1D (P = 0.1635) ( 6 , 7 ). HYPOGLYCEMIA The CREED study showed that hypoglycemia incidence before Ramadan was associated with significantly increased risk of
