Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


insignificantly for individuals with T1D (P = 0.1635) ( 6 , 7 ). HYPOGLYCEMIA The CREED study showed that hypoglycemia incidence before Ramadan was associated with significantly increased risk of hypoglycemia during Ramadan ( 18 ). This association between hypoglycemia incidence before and during Ramadan has been seen through multiple studies across continents ( 1 , 18 , 19 ). Similarly, the EPIDAR study 7 showed that T1D and T2D patients had a 4.7-fold and a 7.5-fold increase, respectively, in severe hypoglycemia requiring hospitalization during Ramadan. Hypoglycemia during Ramadan was significantly associated with the use of sulfonylureas and insulin ( 18 , 19 ). Severe and non-severe hypoglycemia rates are fewer with second-generation sulfonylureas, Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs), insulin analogues, and sodium-glucose transporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors ( 20 - 25 ). During the early Ramadan period, patients on sulfonylureas and those on ≥2 antidiabetic medications have significant increase in mean amplitude of glycemic excursions ( 26 ). Other factors influencing the incidence of hypoglycemia during Ramadan include season, geographical location, fasting duration, time since diagnosis, gender, anthropometric measures, dietary behaviors, and pre-fasting education ( 1 ). Macrovascular (Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular) and Microvascular Risk (Renal Complications) Diabetes increases the risk of CVD and stroke, and individuals with diabetes who have pre-existing CVD or stroke are at greater risk of complications when fasting ( 27 ). Individuals with unstable CVD or stroke are also at very high risk from fasting. Individuals with diabetes and CKD stage 3 are at high-risk from fasting while those with stage 4-5 are at very high risk from fasting during Ramadan ( 27 ). Patients on dialysis or those who had a kidney transplant are also considered high risk from fasting ( 27 ). Factors associated with increased risk of fasting during Ramadan are high carbohydrate intake, inadequate hydration, high activity levels, poor sleeping patterns, and missing doses of essential medicines ( 27 ). All these high to very high-risk individuals should be discouraged from fasting. If they still decide to fast, then pre-Ramadan assessment and education and monitoring during Ramadan and post-Ramadan should be carried out under the expert guidance of a multidisciplinary team (diabetologist, cardiologist, neurologist, nephrologist, nutritionist etc.) ( 27 ). Weekly monitoring during Ramadan by a health care provider should be encouraged. Pre-Ramadan assessment and education should begin three months prior to Ramadan and all efforts should be made to stabilize the
