Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


during Ramadan by a health care provider should be encouraged. Pre-Ramadan assessment and education should begin three months prior to Ramadan and all efforts should be made to stabilize the doses of the various drugs, adjust them to morning and evening dose, and those on insulin should be taught self-titration of dose based on SMBG ( 27 ). Patients with CKD, on dialysis or those who had a kidney transplant should be encouraged to routinely monitor electrolytes and creatinine at various time-points during Ramadan ( 27 ). A diet rich in potassium and phosphorus should be avoided ( 27 ). MANAGEMENT OF DIABETES DURING RAMADAN 5. R's of Ramadan Care The management of diabetes during Ramadan and in general can be summarized under the mnemonic termed as the 5 R's of Ramadan care ( Table 2 ). Table 2. The 5 R's of Ramadan Care ( 28 ) View in own window The 5 R Significance Respect Respect the patient's attitudes, wishes, and needs, and consider these while planning therapy Speak with the patient with empathy for his religious beliefs Risk stratification This is an essential backbone for pre-Ramadan counseling Revision of Therapy Diabetes therapy will need to be revised based on risk of hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, and other risk factors Regular Follow Up Regular follow-up with HCP before, during and after Ramadan is necessary to ensure a safe and healthy fasting experience Reappraisal of Strategy Diabetes is a dynamic condition, and constant reappraisal is required during the current and next fasting period HCP- health care provider Pre-Ramadan Management of Diabetes DM management in people planning to fast during Ramadan should ideally start six to eight or maximum 12 weeks before the first day of fasting ( 6 , 29 ). Diabetes assessment and plan of care pre-Ramadan should ideally follow the flow chart shown in Figure 4 ( 6 , 29 ) . Figure 4. Diabetes assessment and plan of care pre-, during and post Ramadan ( 6 , 29 ) Patient education during this time-period is necessary because many patients follow a self-management approach of diabetes during Ramadan and do not appreciate the risks and implications of fasting on DM and its medications, and fast against medical advice ( 6 , 19 ). Physicians need to be sensitized about this time-period for their Muslim patients as many may not realize the religious sensitivities associated with DM management during
