Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


( 6 , 19 ). Physicians need to be sensitized about this time-period for their Muslim patients as many may not realize the religious sensitivities associated with DM management during Ramadan ( 6 ). PRE-RAMADAN EDUCATION The pre-Ramadan diabetes education should cover: Risk quantification, exemptions, and removing misconceptions. Blood glucose monitoring Fluids and dietary advice Physical activity and exercise advice Medication adjustment When to break the fast Recognition of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia symptoms RISK STRATIFICATION OF PEOPLE WITH DIABETES The pre-Ramadan time period should be used to understand the individual’s risks associated with fasting, and develop an individualized treatment plan for the individual who falls in the lower risk category and can fast. The risk stratification is done based on several factors ( 6 , 9 , 10 ): Type and duration of diabetes DM treatment regime and polypharmacy with multiple glucose lowering drugs Level of glycemic control Risk or occurrence of hypoglycemia DM self-management capability including hypoglycemia awareness, motivation for self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG), frailty, and cognition DM complications and comorbidities Ongoing/recent severe illness Renal impairment Social determinants affecting assess and adherence to treatment including economic and education level For those with T1D: access to continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and advanced insulin technologies The IDF-DAR Practical Guidelines 2021 stratify the individuals with DM who are going to fast during Ramadan into three risk categories, low, moderate and high ( Figure 5 ) ( 29 ). Figure 5. IDF-DAR 2021 Ramadan risk score and risk categories for fasting ( 2 , 30 ) DM patients who had a history of severe hypoglycemia ≤3 months before Ramadan, recurrent hypoglycemia, or of hypoglycemia unawareness are considered high risk ( 31 ). Young individuals and adolescents start fasting during Ramadan with the onset of puberty, and those with T1D are considered to be high risk for fasting and generally discouraged from fasting ( 9 ). Many DM patients may need to be upgraded to high-risk category during the current coronavirus-2019 (COVID-19) pandemic and thus likely to fall under the ‘advised not to fast’ risk category ( 6 ). Patients with high-risk scores are advised not to fast as fasting is not considered safe for these individuals ( 29 ). However, since fasting during Ramadan is a personal choice, the individuals deciding to fast despite being cautioned against it, should be monitored very closely during and after Ramadan ( 6 , 19 ). Individuals
