Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


Ramadan is a personal choice, the individuals deciding to fast despite being cautioned against it, should be monitored very closely during and after Ramadan ( 6 , 19 ). Individuals with low and moderate risk scores are educated about the risks and advised to fast with strict BG monitoring, and adjustments to diet/nutrition and medications ( 29 ). The individuals are closely monitored during Ramadan by their health care providers (HCPs) and advised to come for a post Ramadan follow-up. At this follow-up visit, the HCPs asses the glycemic control, and discuss the challenges faced to make the next Ramadan fasting more risk free. Pre-Ramadan risk assessment, education and advise is known to improve the fasting experience of individuals with DM ( 6 ). Blood Glucose Monitoring Self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) should be stressed upon and encouraged. Moderate to low-risk individuals with diabetes can monitor their BG once or twice daily but those at high risk of fasting should be encouraged to follow a 7-time-point guide for SMBG during Ramadan ( Figure 6 ) ( 29 ). Additional BG check should be done if the individual experiences symptoms of hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, or feel unwell ( 29 ). Figure 6. A seven time-point blood glucose monitoring guide for people with diabetes fasting during Ramadan ( 29 ) Fluids and Dietary Advice Detailed diet plan for Ramadan is provided through Ramadan specific medical nutrition therapy (MNT) and Ramadan Nutrition Plan (RNP) ( 29 , 32 ). Adequate fluid intake should be encouraged between sunset and dawn. Physical Activity and Exercise Advice Individuals with diabetes who are fasting should be encouraged to carry out their normal physical activity ( 29 ). Taraweeh prayers, which involve activities such as bowing, kneeling, and rising, can be considered as part of daily exercise activities ( 29 ). Rigorous exercise/activity during the fasting period should be avoided as this can increase the risk of hypoglycemia and dehydration, especially during the last few hours of fasting ( 29 ). Medication Adjustment All medications (diabetes and non-diabetes) should be reviewed in the pre-Ramadan period to see which medications need a dose and time adjustment. The change should be made well before Ramadan and monitored through appropriate clinical and laboratory evaluation ( 29 ). Patients on insulin should be taught self-titration of units based on SMBG values ( 10 ). When to Break the Fast This is an essential component
