Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


evaluation ( 29 ). Patients on insulin should be taught self-titration of units based on SMBG values ( 10 ). When to Break the Fast This is an essential component of Pre-Ramadan education. All individuals with diabetes who are fasting during Ramadan should be advised to break their fast if: Blood glucose <70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) Advise to re-check within 1 hour if BG is between 70–90 mg/dL (3.9–5.0 mmol/L) Blood glucose >300 mg/dL (16.6mmol/L) Symptoms of hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, dehydration or acute illness occur Recognizing Symptoms of Hypoglycemia and Hyperglycemia All individuals with diabetes who are fasting during Ramadan and their caregivers should be taught to recognize symptoms of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia ( Figure 7 ) ( 29 ). If they recognize these symptoms, they should be advised to break their fast. Figure 7. Symptoms of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia ( 29 ) The Medico-Religious Interplay in Ramadan Muslims believe that Ramadan is a blessed month, and see fasting during the holy month of Ramadan as a deeply meaningful and spiritual experience ( 1 , 30 ). A significant number of individuals with diabetes fast during Ramadan, even against medical advice and despite the religious exemptions available to the sick ( 1 , 30 , 33 ). This population also includes adolescents with T1D, who fast against medical advice ( 9 ). Individuals with diabetes who fast during Ramadan are more likely to avoid consulting their doctors ( 12 ). International Diabetes Federation (IDF) and Diabetes and Ramadan (DAR) International Alliance collaborated to form the IDF-DAR Practical Guidelines 2021 to help healthcare providers (HCPs) better manage diabetes in patients fasting during the month-long holy period of Ramadan ( 2 ). It is important to make these individuals with diabetes who cannot fast due to their medical condition understand that they are equally blessed even if they do not fast ( 30 ). Many individuals with diabetes who fast prefer to take fasting related advice from their holy leader ( Imam ). Hence, the right message and education should be disseminated by both the HCPs and the religious leaders ( Table 3 ) ( 30 ). HCPs should avoid medical jargons, and counsel patients from a religious standpoint; and religious leaders should integrate into their counseling the value and significance of exemptions in context with the medical advice. Table 3. Medical and Religious Risk Score Recommendations ( 30 ) View in own
