Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


integrate into their counseling the value and significance of exemptions in context with the medical advice. Table 3. Medical and Religious Risk Score Recommendations ( 30 ) View in own window Risk score Medical recommendations Religious recommendations LOW RISK 0-3 points Fasting is probably safe. Ensure 1. Medical Evaluation 2. Medication adjustment 3. Strict monitoring 1. Fasting is obligatory 2. Advice not to fast is not allowed except if patient is unable to fast due to: Physical burden of fasting Has to take medication or food or drink during the fasting hours on medical advice MODERATE RISK 3.5-6 points Fasting safety is uncertain Ensure: 1. Medical Evaluation 2. Medication adjustment 3. Strict monitoring 1. Fasting is preferred but patients may choose not to fast if they are concerned about their health after consulting the doctor and taking into account the full medical circumstances and patient’s own previous experiences 2. If the patient does fast, they must follow medical recommendations including regular blood glucose monitoring HIGH RISK >6 points Fasting is probably unsafe Advise against fasting Medical Nutrition Therapy (MNT) and Ramadan Nutrition Plan (RNP) for People with Diabetes MNT is an essential component of diabetes management and includes both meal plans and diabetes education, aimed at improving lifestyle and diabetes related behavior ( 4 ). MNT helps achieve the desired glycemic control and helps the overweight and obese individuals with T2D improve their lifestyle and lose weight ( 4 ). MNT should be appropriate and accurate for the patient’s age, comorbidities, lifestyle requirements, and other medical needs. MNT should be easily absorbed; affordable, easily accessible, acceptable (through right aroma and consider taste preferences), and attractive (visually appealing) ( 4 ). This improves adherence to the MNT ( 4 ). An MNT plan for individuals with diabetes is essential for safe fasting during Ramadan ( 32 ). Structured Ramadan-specific MNT ( 34 ) has shown to improve fasting BG and triglyceride levels and pre-dawn and pre-bed SMBG values compared to patients with T2D receiving standard care ( 34 ). Structured Ramadan-specific MNT includes ( 32 , 34 ): 1. Pre-Ramadan nutrition education 2. Individualized energy and balanced macronutrient prescriptions for non-fasting period (sunset to sunrise) to prevent hypoglycemia during fasting state 3. Well distributed carbohydrate intake to prevent post meal hyperglycemia 4. At least one serving/day of diabetes-specific formula to be taken during Suhoor and/or pre-bed snack. 5. Diet plan should
