Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


3. Well distributed carbohydrate intake to prevent post meal hyperglycemia 4. At least one serving/day of diabetes-specific formula to be taken during Suhoor and/or pre-bed snack. 5. Diet plan should consider other comorbidities. 6. Ramadan toolkits: Ramadan flip chart 14-day menu plan Ramadan Nutrition Plate (RNP) Festive season nutrition plan (Syawal nutrition plan) RNP “is a mobile and web-based application designed to help healthcare professionals (HCPs) individualize medical nutrition therapy (MNT) for people with diabetes” who are fasting during Ramadan ( 32 ). A well designed and customized RNP is a prerequisite to safe and confident fasting during Ramadan ( 32 ). Apart from nutrition, the platform also provides education regarding safe fasting during Ramadan. It helps individuals to safely fast who have no access to HCPs during Ramadan. Several RNPs have been developed for different countries to suit their regional customs, beliefs, and preferences. HCPs can use their country specific RNP, Ramadan Nutrition plate, and well-balanced meal ( Table 4 ) ( 4 , 32 ) as a guide to individualize the MNT during Ramadan ( 32 ). Table 4. Macronutrient Meal Composition for Ramadan ( 4 , 32 ) View in own window Macronutrient Recommended amount Recommended sources Sources not recommended Carbohydrate ≤130 g/day Accounts for 40-45% of total caloric intake Adjust as per cultural setting and individual preferences Low glycemic index and glycemic load carbohydrates: whole grains, legumes, pulses, temperate fruits, green salad, and most vegetables Foods rich in sugar, refined carbohydrate, processed grains, or starchy foods: sugary beverages, traditional desserts, white rice, white bread, low fiber cereal, and white potatoes Meal Calorie% Carbohydrate exchange* Suhoor 30-40 3-5 Iftar snack 10-20 1-2 Iftar meal 40-50 3-6 Healthy snack (if required) 10-20 1-2 Fiber 20-35g/day (or 14g /1000 kcal) High fiber foods: unprocessed food, vegetables, fruits, seeds, pulses, and legumes Fiber helps to provide satiety during Iftar and to delay hunger after Suhoor - Protein ≥1.2g/kg of adjusted body weight Accounts for 20-30% of the total caloric intake. Protein enhances satiety and gives sensation of fullness. Also helps to maintain lean body mass Fish, skinless poultry, milk and dairy products, nuts, seeds, and legumes (beans), low fat milk and milk products Protein with a high saturated fat content such as red meat (beef, lamb) and processed meats (increase CVD risk) Lipids Between 30–35% of the total calorie intake. The type of fat is more important than the total
