Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


such as red meat (beef, lamb) and processed meats (increase CVD risk) Lipids Between 30–35% of the total calorie intake. The type of fat is more important than the total amount of fat in reducing CVD risk. Limit saturated fat to < 7%. PUFA and MUFA should comprise the rest of the fat intake. Limit dietary cholesterol to < 300 mg/day or < 200 mg /day if LDL cholesterol > 2.6 mmol/L Consume fat from PUFA and MUFA (e.g., olive oil, vegetable oil, or blended oil (PUFA and Palm oil)). Oily fish (e.g., such as tuna, sardines, salmon, and mackerel) as a source of omega 3-fatty acids Minimize saturated fat, including red meat (beef and lamb), ghee, and foods high in trans-fats (e.g., fast foods, cookies, some margarines). * 1 Carbohydrate exchange = 15 g Carbohydrates; CVD, cardiovascular disease; MUFA, Monounsaturated fatty acids; PUFA, Polyunsaturated fatty acids Medical Management of Diabetes During Ramadan Diabetes assessment and plan of care during and post Ramadan should ideally follow the flow chart shown in Figure 4 ( 6 , 29 ). MEDICAL MANAGEMENT OF T1D DURING RAMADAN IN ADOLESCENTS AND YOUNG INDIVIDUALS TID is treated with insulin replacement therapy. After the Pre-Ramadan risk stratification, adjustments are made to the patient’s dosing, timing, and type of insulin regime based on the patient’s risk level. Insulin Regimens There is no conclusive evidence supporting efficacy and safety of a particular insulin regime over another in adolescents with T1D who are fasting during Ramadan. The insulin regime is therefore based on affordability, access to treatment (medication, specialist and advanced technology), and cultural preferences ( 9 ). Changing the insulin regime just before Ramdan is likely to result in dose errors and increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Hence, every effort should be made to continue the same regime, but with proper dose modifications and comprehensive counseling covering diet, lifestyle, physical activity, SMBG, and self-titration of insulin dose ( 10 ). The most commonly used insulin regimens in adolescents are ( 9 ): 1. Basal-bolus regimens –multiple dose injections (MDI) adjusted according to meal (preferred option) 2. Conventional twice daily neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH)/regular short acting (human) insulin 3. Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) with or without sensors 4. Premixed insulins (generally not recommended for T1DM) Of these, MDI and CSII are closer to providing the physiological insulin secretion pattern. Table 5 gives guidance on dose modifications of different
