Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) or symptoms Reduce by 4 units Reduce by 4 units Reduce by 4 units <90 mg/dL (5.0 mmol/L) Reduce by 2 units Reduce by 2 units Reduce by 2 units 90-126 mg/dL (5.0-7.0 mmol/L) No change No change No change >126 mg/dL (7.0 mmol/L) Increase by 2 units Increase by 2 units Increase by 2 units >200 mg/dL (16.7 mmol/L) Increase by 4 units Increase by 4 units Increase by 4 units * Reduce the insulin dose taken before Suhoor ; **Reduce the insulin dose taken before Iftar Recommendations for Insulin Regimes 1. T1D management during Ramadan should be individualized according to patient’s need, preference, affordability, acceptability, and access to treatment ( 9 ). 2. The basal-bolus regime is the preferred regime and consists of a long-acting insulin analogue (basal insulin) and a premeal rapid acting insulin analogue (bolus insulin) ( 9 ). 3. Associated with a lower risk of hypoglycemia when compared to conventional, twice-daily, insulin regimens 4. The bolus insulin dose should be dependent on the carbohydrate count of the meal. It should ideally be given 20 minutes before the meal for better post-prandial BG control. 5. Boluses covering Suhoor and Iftar should be based on Insulin Carbohydrate Ratio (ICRs) and Insulin Sensitivity Factor (ISFs) Approximately 70% of hypoglycemia occur during the last six hours of fasting. Hence, the type of basal insulin used, reduction in basal insulin dose and modification of insulin timing are the tools used to avoid hypoglycemia: 1. Ramadan fasting should be started with a reduction of basal insulin-starting with 20% and individualizing up to 40% as required 2. Basal insulin can be administered earlier in the day to minimize insulin exposure during the last few hours of fasting when BG levels are low. 3. Basal insulin can also be taken at Iftar or earlier in the evening 4. First-generation basal insulin analogues (such as glargine U-100) are more likely to cause hypoglycemia than the second generation, long-acting insulin analogues (glargine U-300 and degludec). However, the choice of insulin should be individualized based on risk of hypoglycemia. 5. Long-acting insulin analogues are preferred over intermediate acting (NPH/human insulin) as they provide a steady fall of BG towards normal levels by sunset time ( 9 ). 6. Twice daily regimens are more likely to be associated with hyperglycemia ( 9 ). 7. Twice daily regimens are usually not preferred during Ramadan, but
