Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


time ( 9 ). 6. Twice daily regimens are more likely to be associated with hyperglycemia ( 9 ). 7. Twice daily regimens are usually not preferred during Ramadan, but if they are the only choice available to the patient, their timing and dose needs to be more closely monitored depending on the timing, portion size and carbohydrate content of meal ( 9 ). 8. Premixed twice daily insulin regimes are not recommended during Ramadan period as they require fixed carbohydrate intake at fixed timing, and this may be difficult for adolescents to follow ( 9 ). 9. There is emerging evidence that T1D patients can fast during Ramadan with fewer complications with the help of newer technologies such as insulin pump therapy, CGM and hybrid closed-loop systems ( 6 ). 10. CSII with insulin pumps in adolescents help achieve the targeted glycemic control with reduction in hyperglycemia and severe hypoglycemia, and provides more flexibility, improved quality of life and decreased risk of complications like diabetic ketoacidosis ( 9 ). CSII allows for easier management of DM and reduces risk of complications than MDI ( 9 ) The basal and bolus doses are adjusted through algorithms on the pump or through sensors and mobile applications (in more advanced versions) Basal insulin is reduced by 20-35% in the last 4-5 hours before Iftar and increased by 10-30% after Iftar up to midnight Prandial insulin bolus calculation is based on usual ICR and ISR Bolus doses can be delivered in three different ways: Standard dosing: Immediately before meals Extended or square dosing: gradual dosing over a certain time period Combo or dual wave bolus: combination of standard and extended High fat content diet as seen during Iftar is likely to benefit from extended or combo bolus dosing ( 9 ). Insulin pumps augmented with CGM provide better glycemic control and reduce complications considerably in adolescents with T1D. These sensor-augmented pumps are of two types ( 9 ): Low Glucose Suspend (LGS) function pumps: The high-risk BG threshold for HE is pre-set in these pumps. The insulin administration can be automatically suspended for ≤2 hours when sensors detect BG levels below the pre-set threshold Predictive Low Glucose Suspend (PLGS) pumps: Insulin administration is automatically suspended before BG reaches hypoglycemic levels (70 mg/dL [3.9 mmol/L]). Automated insulin delivery (closed loop): These can suspend or increase insulin delivery based on sensor-based BG values. Thus, closed
