Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


saxagliptin, linagliptin, alogliptin, vildagliptin) GLP-1 RA (lixisenatide, exenatide, liraglutide, dulaglutide, semaglutide) SGLT2-I (dapagliflozin, canagliflozin, empagliflozin, and ertugliflozin) Alpha-glucosidase inhibitor (acarbose, voglibose) Short-acting insulin secretagogues (repaglinide and nateglinide) Oral GLP-1 RA (semaglutide) DPP-4, dipeptidyl peptidase 4; GLP-1 RA, Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs); NPH, neutral protamine Hagedorn; SGLT2-I, Sodium/glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors After the Pre-Ramadan risk stratification, adjustments are made to the patient’s GLDs. Some patients may need a change of medications too depending on their risk level. Preference is given to GLDs with better glycemic control and lower risk of hypoglycemia. Oral Glucose Lowering Drug Adjustments During Ramadan In general, non-sulfonylureas GLDs are superior in lowering hypoglycemia incidence than sulfonylureas ( 1 ). Metformin is the most commonly used first line oral GLD, and has minimal risk of hypoglycemia ( 10 ). Sulfonylureas are the most commonly used second line oral GLDs after metformin, especially in resource limited settings ( 10 ). Short-acting insulin secretagogues can be useful GLDs during Ramadan because of their short duration of action and low risk of hypoglycemia ( 10 ). DPP4 inhibitors are well tolerated during fasting and have a low hypoglycemia risk ( 10 ). SGLT2 inhibitors are the newest class of oral GLDs used in T2D. They have demonstrated effective glycemic control during Ramadan even in patients with cardiovascular diseases/chronic kidney disease, and have low risk of hypoglycemia ( 10 , 36 ). An individual should be started on a SGLT2 inhibitor at least 2-4 weeks before Ramadan for the BG levels to stabilize during the fasting time. Of the thiazolidinediones, only pioglitazone is widely approved for T2DM, has low hypoglycemia risk, but clinical data on its use during Ramadan is limited ( 10 ). Table 10. Oral Glucose Lowering Drugs Used During Ramadan: Dose Modifications and Timing Adjustments in Individuals with Type 2 Diabetes ( 10 ) View in own window Oral GLD Dose modification Timing Metformin once daily No dose modification Take at Iftar Metformin twice daily No dose modification Take at Iftar and Suhoor Metformin thrice daily No modification to morning dose. Afternoon dose to be combined with evening dose Take morning dose before Suhoor and evening dose at Iftar Prolonged release metformin No dose modification Take at Iftar Sulfonylureas once daily Reduce dose in patients with well controlled BG levels Take at Iftar Sulfonylureas twice daily In patients with well controlled BG levels Iftar dose remains the same.
