Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


Sulfonylureas once daily Reduce dose in patients with well controlled BG levels Take at Iftar Sulfonylureas twice daily In patients with well controlled BG levels Iftar dose remains the same. Suhoor dose is reduced Take at Iftar Older sulfonylureas (e.g., glibenclamide) Avoid and replace with 2nd generation SUs such as glicazide, glicazide MR, and glimepiride Short-acting insulin secretagogues thrice daily dosing Reduce or re-distribute to two doses Take before Iftar and Suhoor DPP4 inhibitor once daily No dose modification Take at Iftar DPP4 inhibitor twice daily (vildagliptin) No dose modification Take at Iftar and Suhoor SGLT2 inhibitors No dose modification Take at Iftar Thiazolidinedione No dose modification Take at Iftar BG, blood glucose; DPP-4, dipeptidyl peptidase 4; MR, modified release; SGLT2-I, Sodium/glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors; SU, sulfonylurea Injectable Glucose Lowering Drug Adjustments During Ramadan Most patients with long-standing T2D eventually need insulin to manage their BG levels. Various insulin regimes are used in T2D ( table 9 ) ( 1 , 10 ) and in general, the use of insulin increases the risk of hypoglycemia during Ramadan. Insulin can be given as single daily injection, MDI or as CSII through insulin pumps. The insulin regime is therefore based on affordability, access to treatment (medication, specialist and advanced technology), and cultural preferences ( 9 ). Changing the insulin regime just before Ramdan is likely to result in dose errors and increase risk of hypoglycemia. Hence, every effort should be made to continue the same regime, but with proper dose modifications and comprehensive counseling covering diet, lifestyle, physical activity, SMBG, and self-titration of insulin dose ( 10 ). Table 5 shows the various insulins and how their doses and timing are adjusted during Ramadan. SMBG guided dose titrations for different insulin types are shown in Table 6 . GLP-1 RAs can be safely used with other GLDs including metformin and insulin. They have low hypoglycemia risk, but the risk could be higher if given with insulin or sulfonylureas. However, dose needs to be titrated at least 2-4 weeks prior to Ramadan ( 10 ). Individuals on Multiple Antidiabetic Therapy Individuals on multiple GLDs are at higher risk of hypoglycemia during Ramadan ( 18 ). The risk of hypoglycemia is highest if they are on ≥4 GLDs or on a combination of metformin, DPP4I and basal insulin ( 37 ). In individuals on multiple GLDs, the risk of hypoglycemia is dependent on several factors
