Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


on ≥4 GLDs or on a combination of metformin, DPP4I and basal insulin ( 37 ). In individuals on multiple GLDs, the risk of hypoglycemia is dependent on several factors such as type and number of GLDs, duration of diabetes, pre-Ramadan glycemic control, renal function, and presence of other comorbidities ( 10 ). Individuals on ≥3 GLDs who are fasting during Ramadan should receive comprehensive counseling and advice before the start of Ramadan, and it should cover diet, lifestyle, physical activity, SMBG, and dose and time modifications of GLDs ( 10 ). Individuals on a combination of insulin and SUs are at highest risk of hypoglycemia and require a dose reduction GLDs (approximately 25-50% reduction in insulin dose) during Ramadan. Flash glucose monitoring, CGM, activity monitoring, risk stratification, dose adjustments, and use of artificial intelligence-based algorithms that cover one or more of these aspects are the various tools that are likely to help high-risk patients with T2D fast with fewer hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia related complications ( 6 , 10 ). MANAGEMENT OF DIABETES IN SPECIAL POPUATIONS DURING RAMADAN As discussed, individuals who are considered high risk for fasting during Ramadan need special pre-Ramadan risk stratification, counseling, dose modification, and need to follow strict SMBG during Ramadan, and those on insulin should be capable of self-titrating their insulin dose based on their BG values. This is especially true for special population considered high risk due to a high probability of harm caused by fasting during Ramadan ( 5 ). This special population of high-risk individuals with diabetes includes pregnant women, elderly, and people with CVD or CKD. All these individuals are usually advised not to fast, but many do decide to fast against medical advice ( 5 ). Management of Diabetes/Gestational Diabetes During Ramadan Even in healthy pregnant women, fasting during Ramadan results in biochemical changes that almost mimic the effects of prolonged fasting ( 35 ). Ramadan fasting results in an increase in triglycerides (TG), free fatty acids (FFA), and ketones in healthy pregnant women along with a decrease in glucose and insulin ( 35 ). However, data on physiological and biochemical changes caused by fasting during Ramadan in pregnant women with diabetes is largely lacking. Pregnancy is an exemption from fasting. However, many pregnant women choose to fast during Ramadan. A detailed discussion regarding the potential risks of fasting must be held with them. While healthy pregnant women can
