Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


from fasting. However, many pregnant women choose to fast during Ramadan. A detailed discussion regarding the potential risks of fasting must be held with them. While healthy pregnant women can generally fast safely with no maternal or fetal risk, those with hyperglycemia need to strictly monitor their BG levels to prevent hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, and adverse maternal and fetal outcomes ( 35 ). Pre-Ramadan assessment should begin months before Ramadan, and apart from risk stratification, should focus on breaking general myths like ‘finger-prick testing for BG levels breaks their fast’, encourage SMBG, and educate about the maternal and fetal risks of both hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia ( 35 ). Pregnant women with diabetes should maintain normal physical activity while fasting. The Taraweeh prayer they offer should be considered as exercise for which insulin doses should be adjusted as required ( 35 ). Fiber rich food and drinking 2-3 liters of water a day should be encouraged. Suhoor should be taken as late as possible ( 35 ). Insulin and/or metformin are the treatment of choice in pregnancy with diabetes. Though glibenclamide is also used in some patients, its use should be discouraged during Ramadan. Some women with gestational diabetes may be managed on diet and/or metformin too. The metformin dose may not need any change during pregnancy but the dose of insulin should be modified as discussed in Table 5 ( 10 , 35 ). Insulin dose titration should be guided by SMBG as shown in Table 6 . SMBG should be carried out as guided in Figure 6 . Pregnant women with diabetes should strictly monitor and maintain their BG levels as follows ( 35 ): ✓ Fasting between 70-95 mg/dL (3.9 – 5.3 mmol/L). ✓ Post-prandial < 120 mg/dL (6.7 mmol/L). Pregnant women with diabetes should break their fast if ( 35 ): ✓ BG levels < 70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) during fasting hours. ✓ Feel unwell. ✓ Feel reduced fetal movement. Pregnant women with diabetes should carry out regular SMBG at the following time points ( 35 ): ✓ Before the sunset meal. ✓ 1-2 hours after meals ✓ Once during the day while fasting, particularly in the afternoon. ✓ Anytime they feel unwell. Management of Diabetes in Elderly with Diabetes Fasting During Ramadan Older age (≥ 65 years) by itself can be considered a high risk for fasting during Ramadan in individuals with diabetes, even though many elderly
