Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


16.6 mmol/L or 300 mg/dL) during Ramadan (19.3% vs. 15.6%; P=0.006) ( 39 ). 8.4% of the elderly had to attend the emergency department due to hyperglycemia related complications. The DAR 2020 survey showed that the majority (80%) do not break their fast even if they have hyperglycemia, and 20% do not change their behavior (food intake, medication change), 25% reduced their food intake, and 21% increased their medication dose ( 39 ). In the DAR 2020 Global Survey, 21% of participants with T2DM aged ≥ 65 years checked their BG levels once or less than once a week. Only around 10% checked their BG levels 3–4 times a day. There was no change in SMBG behavior during Ramadan ( 39 ). Research on elderly fasting during Ramadan is largely lacking. 38 Landmark trials in Ramadan like the EPIDIAR study which was used to formulate many recommendations for individuals with diabetes fasting during Ramadan, did not include the elderly. 7 The elderly population is growing fast, and therefore there will be more individuals with diabetes who are ≥ 65 years and intend to fast ( 40 ) The risk of fasting is much higher in elderly than in younger population with diabetes ( 38 ). This is because the elderly have more comorbidities (hypertension, hyperlipidemia, CVDs, CKD etc.) than the younger population ( 38 , 39 ). Elderly with diabetes and impaired renal functions, CVD, dementia, frailty, and/or those with risk of falls are at higher risk for complications during fasting than elderly without comorbidities ( 38 ). Therefore, risk stratification of elderly with diabetes who decide to fast during Ramadan should be based not only on age, but also on their comorbidities, functional capacity, and ability to manage medications and carry out SMBG, cognition, and social circumstances ( 38 ). Hence, the elderly with diabetes are a high-risk category for fasting during Ramadan. They need proper Pre-Ramadan risk stratification, education, and support to ensure that they can fast safely with proper SMBG and medication monitoring. Table 11 covers the basic recommendations for elderly who intend to fast during Ramadan. Table 11. Basic Recommendations for Elderly who Intend to Fast During Ramadan View in own window MEDICATIONS AND REGIMENS Choose medications that have a lower hypoglycemia risk Make dose adjustments to lower the risk of hypoglycemia For individuals on SUs, gliclazide and glimepiride should be used instead of glibenclamide SGLT2
