Diabetes Management During Ramadan
KEYWORDS: ramadan, diabetes, fasting, insulin, risk, dose, hypoglycemia, individuals, fast, fasting ramadan, international, iftar, glucose, patients, dar


as these individuals cannot consume large meals and therefore absorb certain macronutrients ( 12 ). GAPS AND WAY FORWARD The last few decades have contributed immensely to the growing knowledge and clinical experience of health care providers regarding the clinical and metabolic complications of fasting, pre-fasting assessment, risk stratification and initiation of changes in medication dose and timing and dietary/lifestyle modifications during Ramadan ( 1 ). However, greater efforts are required to improve communication between the medical experts and religious scholars in order to ensure that medical guidance regarding safe fasting during Ramadan is best received by the public ( 30 ). Further well-designed clinical trials are required to assess the best treatment options for adolescents and adults with diabetes who fast during Ramadan. Artificial intelligence, use of RNP and other such tools need to be integrated to ensure safe fasting during Ramadan. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS All named authors for this manuscript meet the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) criteria for authorship. All authors take full responsibility for the integrity of the work and have given final approval for the published version. The authors acknowledge Dr. Kokil Mathur and Dr. Punit Srivastava from Mediception Science Pvt. Ltd, Gurgaon, India for providing writing and editing assistance. REFERENCES 1. Abdelrahim D, Faris ME, Hassanein M, et al. Impact of Ramadan Diurnal Intermittent Fasting on Hypoglycemic Events in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials and Observational Studies. Frontiers in Endocrinology. 2021; 12 https://www ​.frontiersin ​.org/article/10.3389/fendo ​.2021.624423 Accessed March 2, 2022. [ PMC free article : PMC7984365 ] [ PubMed : 33763029 ] 2. IDF-DAR Practical Guidelines. DAR practical guidelines for healthcare professionals. Published 2021. Accessed March 2, 2022. https://www ​.idf.org/our-activities ​/education ​/diabetes-and-ramadan ​/healthcare-professionals.html . 3. Jabbar A, Malek R, Hussein Z. Chapter 2. Epidemiology of diabetes and fasting during Ramadan. In: International Diabetes Federation and DAR International Alliance. Diabetes and Ramadan: Practical Guidelines . International Diabetes Federation and DAR International Alliance; 2021. Accessed March 4, 2022. https://www ​.idf.org/our-activities ​/education ​/diabetes-and-ramadan ​/healthcare-professionals.html . 4. Kapoor N, Sahay R, Kalra S, et al. Consensus on Medical Nutrition Therapy for Diabesity (CoMeND) in Adults: A South Asian Perspective. Diabetes Metab Syndr Obes. 2021; 14 :1703–1728. [ PMC free article : PMC8057793 ] [ PubMed : 33889005 ] [ CrossRef ] 5. Bennakhi A, Buyukbese MA, Al Saleh Y, Almadani AA, Eliana F. Chapter 1. Introduction to the IDF-DAR ractical Guidelines.
