Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156
KEYWORDS: lesions, map, papulosis, patients, gastrointestinal, atrophic, patient, atrophic papulosis, laparoscopy, skin, endoscopy, bowel, fig, disease, findings


MAP, Malignant, Atrophic papulosis,Treprostinil, Eculizumab,Laparoscopy Background microvascularinjurysyndromessuchasatypicalhemolytic Atrophic papulosis (Köhlmeier-Degos disease) is a rare uremic syndrome . Eculizumab has an almost immedi- thrombo-occlusive vasculopathy that can affect multiple ate effect, preventing further formation and deposition of organsystems.Patientsprimarilypresentwithdistinctive the membrane attack complex, thereby decreasing C5b-9 skin lesions reflective of vascular drop out. The small stimulated apoptosis. It also immediately inhibits forma- bowel is the most common internal organ involved, tionoftheanphylatoxinC5a.Thisparticularmicroan- resulting in considerable morbidity and mortality attrib- giopathy is also associated with a type I interferon rich utable to ischemic microperforations [1–3]. Skin lesions microenvironment as revealed by extensive vascular de- associated with atrophic papulosis appear as avascular, position of myxovirus protein, a surrogate marker of type slightly depressed porcelain-like lesions with a telangi- I interferons . Deficiency of endothelial progenitor ectatic rim . The more common cutaneous manifesta- cells(EPC)isonehypothesisinthepathogenesisofMAP. tions of a primary vasculopathy, ulceration, livedo and EPCexposedtointerferon-alphainducetheup-regulation palpable purpura, are not seen. Gastrointestinal (GI) in- ofIL-18andcaspase-1.IL-18inhibitsvascularrepairwhile volvement develops approximately 60 % of the time, caspase-1 contributes to EPC dysfunction. In essence usually one to three years after the skin lesions first ap- there is an imbalance between vascular damage and vas- pear . The skin and GI lesions show striking similar- cular repair. Eculizumab has no effect on the interferon- ities ongross examination even thoughthe caliberofthe mediatedinjury.Recentdatasuggesttreprostinil,aprosta- affected vessels is different. In the skin, the targeted ves- cyclinanalogthatfacilitateshealingofischemictissueand sels are capillaries and venules of the dermis, whereas in inhibits platelet aggregation, could ameliorate symptoms the gastrointestinal tract subserosal arteries and arteri- andsignsofMAPbyvirtueofitseffectonenhancingEPC oles are the primary target. While both vascular lesions repair . Because of this, treprostinil has been result in a similar depressed porcelain scar, the nature of employedasadjunctivetherapyinpatientswithMAP. the vasculopathy histologically is different. In the skin Determination of the presence of gastrointestinal le- the primary vascularpattern is athrombogenic microan- sions is critical. Untreated, individuals with such lesions giopathy while in the gut, an obliterative mucinous will have progressive disease culminating in repeated fibrointimal arteriopathy is seen . Until recently, re- bowel perforations and death. At present, there is no ported cases of systemic disease have been descriptions consensus on the best means of detecting gastrointes- of an inexorable path to a fatal outcome . Reports of tinal lesions in patients with cutaneous atrophic prominent C5b-9 deposits in skin and gastrointestinal papulosis. tissue of patients with the malignant form of atrophic papulosis (MAP) have led to the use
