Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156
KEYWORDS: lesions, map, papulosis, patients, gastrointestinal, atrophic, patient, atrophic papulosis, laparoscopy, skin, endoscopy, bowel, fig, disease, findings


lesions in patients with cutaneous atrophic prominent C5b-9 deposits in skin and gastrointestinal papulosis. tissue of patients with the malignant form of atrophic papulosis (MAP) have led to the use of eculizumab, an inhibitor of C5 activation, with prolonged survival in Case presentation some cases . Additionally, arecent report suggests the Wedescribean18yearoldmalewhopresentedwithcu- efficacy of treprostinil as adjunctive therapy in patients taneous atrophic papulosis but became critically ill from with MAP. small bowel microperforations. We also describe his sis- New hypotheses to the pathogenesis of MAP suggests ter, who developed similar skin lesions compatible with two forms of vasculopathy which are mechanistically a familial variant. PubMed was used for a literature distinctive and have helped identify new treatment op- search using the keywords malignant atrophic papulosis, tions. One aspect is a thrombotic microangiopathy at- Degos disease, endoscopy, laparoscopy and laparotomy. tributable to endothelial cell injury. Prior studies have The search yielded 200 articles which were further shownextensivevasculardepositsofC5b-9asthebasisof analyzed for diagnostic procedures and findings. Also injury analogous to other catastrophic C5b-9 mediated personal communications with other physicians caring Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156 Page3of7 for individuals with systemic MAP led to evaluation and comparisonofgastrointestinal imagingmodalities. Patient One: Patient One is an 18 year old male who presented with cutaneous disease, had rapidly proliferat- ing skin lesions over a course of a year, and then sur- vived small bowel microperforations from MAP (Fig. 1). Two months prior to his presentation with acute abdo- men, lowerendoscopy showed patchy erythematous mu- cosa with central clearing at the sigmoid, rectosigmoid colon and splenic flexure (Fig. 2). Upper endoscopy demonstrated mild acute gastritis. At laparotomy, innumerable typical lesions of 0.3-0.5 cm papules with central pearly hue and erythematous border were seen (Fig. 3). The patient had a very rapid and dramatic re- sponse to therapy with eculizumab . Later on the Fig.2Patientone,lowerendoscopyshowedpatchyerythematous patient required a second agent, treprostinil, for main- mucosawithcentralclearingatthesigmoid,rectosigmoidcolon tenance and suppression of other systemic manifesta- andsplenicflexure tions. Five years have passed and he has been doing well ondoubletherapyofeculizumabandtreprostinil. Personalcommunications Patient Two: Patient Two is the sister of Patient One. She slowly developed a small number of cutaneous le- [PATIENT]: A 44 year old female with cutaneous lesions sions that were biopsied and were consistent with atro- of atrophic papulosis developed sudden monocular vi- phic papulosis. She had minor gastrointestinal sion loss and severe eye pain requiring enucleation with discomfort. For this reason and due to her
