Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156
KEYWORDS: lesions, map, papulosis, patients, gastrointestinal, atrophic, patient, atrophic papulosis, laparoscopy, skin, endoscopy, bowel, fig, disease, findings


of atrophic papulosis developed sudden monocular vi- phic papulosis. She had minor gastrointestinal sion loss and severe eye pain requiring enucleation with discomfort. For this reason and due to her brother's his- pathologic findingsofmicrovascular changes inthe orbit tory a laparoscopy was performed with normal findings. consistent with MAP. Colonoscopy in April 2012 Her abdominal discomfort spontaneously resolved. showed normal findings but exploratory laparoscopy in Given the lack of GI findings and the highly limited na- October 2012 revealed innumerable MAP lesions ture of the cutaneous presentation she is less likely to (Fig. 4). progresstosystemicMAP. [PATIENT]: A 36 year old male with MAP overlapping with dermatomyositis had a colonoscopy showing only nonspecific ischemic colitis and a CTscan demonstrated colitis and enteritis but then developed microperfora- tions with lesions typical of MAP noted at time of sur- gery. [PATIENT]: A patient in Malaysia had nonspecific endos- copy and normal colonoscopy but striking laparoscopic changes. [PATIENT]: A previously reported 43 year old male pa- tienthadanormalCTscanandrepetitiveendoscopicbi- opsies and a colonoscopy that were unremarkable but after development of acute abdomen, a resected portion of bowel showed extensive subserosal fibrobliterative arteriopathicandthrombotic microvascular diseasediag- nosticofMAP(Figs.5,6,7,8,9). [PATIENT]: This previously reported patient was 36 years old male with dermatomyositis who presented with clas- sic skin lesions of atrophic papulosis. He then developed Fig.1Patientone’srapidlyproliferatingskinlesions severe gastrointestinal symptoms. While endoscopy and Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156 Page4of7 Fig.3Patientone,atlaparotomy,innumerabletypicallesionsof0.3–0.5cmpapuleswithcentralpearlyhueanderythematousborderwereseen CTscanwereunremarkable,laparoscopyrevealedclassic commonly seen in the small bowel, especially jejunum, lesions ofMAP.Thepatientdiedofsepsis. but can involve any part of the gastrointestinal lumen. Among the 200 cases that were reviewed we found 11 in More pathognomic findings are found at laparoscopy, which endoscopy was performed. Results of endoscopy and are characterized by multiple white plaques with red and laparotomy in our patients with MAP were analyzed borders involving the serosal surface of the small bowel and compared to those in the literature. Based on the and the peritoneum . Laparoscopic lesions are published cases, 9 out of the 11 endoscopies performed similar to the skin lesions seen in patients with MAP had non-specific endoscopic changes either prior to or . The gross serosal porcelain plaques in concert with near-simultaneous to catastrophic bowel perforation [9, the normal endoscopic findings are well exemplified by 10, 13]. Laparotomy findings are striking and predictably the pathology of resection specimens in patients with present in those with acute abdomen. In the cases found MAP. In particular in patients with an acute abdomen in
