Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156
KEYWORDS: lesions, map, papulosis, patients, gastrointestinal, atrophic, patient, atrophic papulosis, laparoscopy, skin, endoscopy, bowel, fig, disease, findings


and predictably the pathology of resection specimens in patients with present in those with acute abdomen. In the cases found MAP. In particular in patients with an acute abdomen in the literature and in our Patient One, endoscopic necessitating bowel resection, the cardinal hallmarks are evaluation revealed pearly-rose patches with a surround- an intact mucosa with mild inflammation or no inflam- ing hyperemic rim in the mucosa which may be inter- mation in concert with striking obliterative arteriopathic preted as general inflammation. Findings are most changes most conspicuous in subserosal vessels but also Fig.4PatientA,colonoscopywasnormalbutexploratorylaparoscopyrevealedinnumerableMAPlesions Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156 Page5of7 Fig.5Thislowpowerviewshowsarelativelynormalappearing Fig.7Withinthesubserosaandtoalesserextentthesubmucosa,an colonicmucosahoweverthesubserosaappearsveryedematous arteriopathyexhibitingvaryingstagesofinflammationandfibro- obliterative healing is identified. In this photomicrograph, the endothelium appears activated and is detached from the intima showing variable involvement within the submucosal. compatible with primary endothelial cell injury. As part of the acute response, there is an endoluminal influx of inflammatory Concomitant subserosal inflammation and edema may cells especially macrophages. Note the red cell engulgment, a be seen. The end sequelae is an ischemic one character- finding indicative of macrophage activation izedbya severenecrotizingserositis. Extensiveandrapidlyprogressiveskinlesionsaremore Conclusions likely tobe associated with the early development ofsys- Historically, death in patients with MAP has most com- temic disease. We believe any such individual, even if monly resulted from gastrointestinal microperforations asymptomatic, and any individual with cutaneous atro- andsubsequent sepsis.Ourexperiencesuccessfullytreat- phic papulosis and unexplained abdominal pain should ing Patient One led us to investigate means of early undergo laparoscopy as the best means of detecting detection of gastrointestinal involvement. Early interven- gastrointestinal involvement. tion with effective therapy could prevent progression to Due to the rarity of MAP, diagnostic guidelines were most often initiated as an act of desperation in patients not exist. When patients present with acute abdomen, who are already critically ill with advanced multiorgan findings at laparotomy or laparoscopy are always strik- failure. ing. Previously published cases of MAP have reported Fig.6Higherpowermagnificationdemonstratesanormal Fig.8Inthissubserosalvessel,thereisstilltheresiduumofan appearingcolonicmucosadespitesevereinflammatoryandvascular inflammatoryendothelialitishoweverthereisprogressive pathologyinvolvingtheserosalsurfaceandsubserosa intimalfibrosis Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156 Page6of7 After 5 years of close observation of Patient One we believe we have identified strategies for early detection with laparoscopy as a potential lifesaving tool. GI in- volvement with symptoms such as dyspepsia, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and others should be further in- vestigated in MAP patients. While the gastrointestinal tract can be examined by endoscopy, to look for white, yellowish, or pearly-rose patches with a hyperemic rim the changes may be subtle and can be easily missed usingthismethod.Laparoscopycanmoreeffect-
