Toledoetal.BMCGastroenterology (2015) 15:156
KEYWORDS: lesions, map, papulosis, patients, gastrointestinal, atrophic, patient, atrophic papulosis, laparoscopy, skin, endoscopy, bowel, fig, disease, findings


gastrointestinal tract can be examined by endoscopy, to look for white, yellowish, or pearly-rose patches with a hyperemic rim the changes may be subtle and can be easily missed usingthismethod.Laparoscopycanmoreeffect- ively identify the diagnostic lesions of gastrointestinal MAP . Laparoscopic identification of white spots with hyperemic borders on the serosal surface of the bowel and the peritoneum are diagnostic of MAP and do not require a biopsy. Their identification should war- Fig.9Inthissubserosalvesselthevascularlumenisnowoccluded rant immediate treatment . From our litera- bycollagendefiningtheendstagefibrousobliterativelesionof Degosdisease.Thesubsequentischemialeadstocompromiseof ture search we do not recommend serosal biopsy of the thebowel,eventuatingintransmuralinfarction.Thelatterreflects lesions sinceitcan leadtoseromuscularbreach. theupstreameffectsofthesubserosallargervesselarteriopathyto These findings can help patients obtain faster and eas- themicrocirculationoftheremainderofthebowel ieraccess totreatmentsasthey emerge.Since clear diag- nostic and treatment guidelines for MAP do not exist time to death after detection of systemic disease to be and untreated systemic MAP has a fatal prognosis, there one to two years . Patient One, however, is cur- is need to identify patients at risk for GI microperfora- rently a 5 year survivor of severe systemic MAP. With tions, sepsis, and death. Our experience and the other the evolution of therapies that have altered the previ- cases we report such that visualization of the serosa of ously grim prognosis, pursuing early detection of sys- the bowel and peritoneum by laparoscopy is superior to temic disease is essential in more consistently improving endoscopic evaluation. Prospective studies are necessary diseaseoutcome. to clarify the role of both endoscopy and laparoscopy in Endoscopic evaluation has been suggested for all pa- thedetectionofsystemicdiseaseinpatientswithcutane- tients with classic skin lesions of atrophic papulosis with ous atrophic papulosis and to establish the frequency specific or nonspecific symptomatology onthe centralor with which such studies should be repeated in those in peripheral nervous system, gastrointestinal tract or any whom thefindingsarenegative. other organ system . Unfortunately since the jejunum is the most commonly involved section of the gastro- Consent intestinaltractandbecause the vascularlesion isprimar- Writteninformedconsentwasobtainedfromallpatients ily subserosal and not mucosal , endoscopic (and guardians) for publication of this case report and evaluation can and has given false negative results. Cap- anyaccompanyingimages.Acopyofthewrittenconsent sule endoscopy can be added to the workup to provide isavailableforreviewbytheEditorofthisjournal. additional imaging of the jejunum but, again, the view is mucosal and the pathology is subserosal. Our experience suggests laparoscopy is a more sensitive diagnostic tool Additional file that should be implemented on higher risk patients . High risk patients include those whose skin lesions are Additionalfile1:CAREChecklist(2013)ofinformationtoinclude proliferating rapidly and
