World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pps, patient, sepsis, abdominal, pain, colon, normal, blood, shock, normal range, abdominal pain, range, day, november, fluid


World Journal of W J G S Gastrointestinal Surgery Submit a Manuscript: World J Gastrointest Surg 2023 October 27; 15(10): 2343-2350 DOI: ISSN 1948-9366 (online) CASE REPORT Postpolypectomy syndrome without abdominal pain led to sepsis/septic shock and gastrointestinal bleeding: A case report Fang-Zhi Chen, Lin Ouyang, Xiao-Li Zhong, Jin-Xiu Li, Yan-Yan Zhou medicine Unsolicited article; Externally peer reviewed. Peer-review model: Single blind Road, Changsha 410011, Hunan Province, China. Peer-review report’s scientific quality classification Abstract Grade A (Excellent): 0 Grade B (Very good): B BACKGROUND Grade C (Good): C Postpolypectomy syndrome (PPS) is a rare postoperative complication of colonic Grade D (Fair): 0 polypectomy. It presents with abdominal pain and fever accompanied by coa- Grade E (Poor): 0 gulopathy and elevated inflammatory markers. Its prognosis is usually good, and it only requires outpatient treatment or observation in a general ward. How-ever, P-Reviewer: Kenzaka T, Japan; it can be life-threatening. Nasa P, United Arab Emirates CASE SUMMARY Peer-review started: July 20, 2023 each resulting in life-threatening sepsis, septic shock, and coagulopathy. Each of First decision: August 5, 2023 the notable manifestations was a rapid drop in blood pressure, an increase in Revised: August 15, 2023 heart rate, loss of consciousness, and heavy sweating, accompanied by shortness Article in press: September 5, 2023 dysfunction due to infection, we diagnosed him with sepsis. The patient also riously, he did not complain of any abdominal pain throughout the course of the illness. He had significantly elevated concentrations of inflammatory markers and coagulopathy. Except for the absence of abdominal pain, his fever, significant coagulopathy, and elevated inflammatory marker concentrations were all con- sistent with PPS. Abdominal computed tomography and superior mesenteric artery computed tomography angiography showed no free air or vascular da- mage. Thus, the diagnosis of colon perforation was not considered. The final blood culture results indicated Moraxella osloensis. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit and quickly improved after fluid resuscitation, antibiotic treatment, oxygen therapy, and blood transfusion. CONCLUSION PPS may induce dysregulation of the systemic inflammatory response, which can WJGS 2343 October 27, 2023 Volume 15 Issue 10 Chen FZ et al. PPS without pain led to sepsis lead to sepsis or septic shock, even in the absence of abdominal pain. Key Words: Postpolypectomy syndrome; Abdominal pain; Sepsis; Gastrointestinal bleeding; Case report ©The Author(s) 2023. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. Core Tip: Postpolypectomy syndrome (PPS) is a
