World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pps, patient, sepsis, abdominal, pain, colon, normal, blood, shock, normal range, abdominal pain, range, day, november, fluid


Key Words: Postpolypectomy syndrome; Abdominal pain; Sepsis; Gastrointestinal bleeding; Case report ©The Author(s) 2023. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. Core Tip: Postpolypectomy syndrome (PPS) is a rare postoperative complication of colonic polypectomy. The prognosis is usually good, and it is characterized by abdominal pain, fever, inflammatory markers, and abnormal coagulation. We report a 58-year-old man who developed life-threatening sepsis or septic shock and gastrointestinal bleeding after colonic polypectomy. Except for the absence of abdominal pain, the patient presented with characteristic PPS symptoms of fever, significant coagulation abnormalities, and elevated inflammatory markers. Final blood culture indicated Moraxella osloensis. This case implies that abdominal pain is not a necessary symptom of PPS, and PPS without abdominal pain may progress to life-threatening sepsis and bleeding. Citation: Chen FZ, Ouyang L, Zhong XL, Li JX, Zhou YY. Postpolypectomy syndrome without abdominal pain led to sepsis/septic shock and gastrointestinal bleeding: A case report. World J Gastrointest Surg 2023; 15(10): 2343-2350 URL: DOI: INTRODUCTION Postpolypectomy syndrome (PPS) is a rare postoperative complication that occurs several days after colonic polypectomy . Patients with PPS may pathologically develop serosal inflammation and coagulopathy because of a transmural burn and focal peritonitis following electrocoagulation of a portion of the bowel wall during polypectomy. Patients with PPS may present with a sudden increase in heart rate (HR), fever, abdominal or lumbosacral pain, and abdominal distention, which makes it similar to bowel perforation, but no perforation occurs. Patients also have significantly elevated concen- trations of inflammatory markers and coagulopathy. Despite the good prognosis of most patients, a few patients require admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) because of severe hemodynamic instability. Sepsis is a life-threatening organ dysfunction syndrome because of a disordered immune response after host infection. Septic shock is classified as a subtype of sepsis, defined as the need for a vasopressor to maintain mean arterial pressure (MAP) ≥ 65 mmHg despite adequate volume resuscitation, with serum lactate levels > 2 mmol/L (18 mg/dL) (Sepsis-3 definitions). We present a unique case of PPS that had no abdominal pain but presented with typical manifestations of sepsis and septic shock with gastrointestinal bleeding. This report was written following the CARE reporting checklist. CASE PRESENTATION Chief complaints 1) for fecal occult blood that had lasted for > 2 mo. History of present illness The patient underwent partial endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) and electrocoagulation electro resection and cold resection for
