World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pps, patient, sepsis, abdominal, pain, colon, normal, blood, shock, normal range, abdominal pain, range, day, november, fluid


cefoxitin (2.0 g Q12H for 3 d) intravenously and infused plasma, cryoprecipitate, and red blood cells during fluid resuscitation. His vital signs were stable and gastrointestinal bleeding ceased on November 25, 2021 (day 11). OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP The patient was discharged on November 26, 2021 (day 12). He said that he would not have polypectomy in the future and thanked us for our timely rescue. The clinical course is summarized in Figure 4. DISCUSSION This is a report of a unique case of a patient diagnosed with PPS without abdominal pain. He developed life-threatening sepsis and septic shock and gastrointestinal bleeding. He experienced the above conditions twice and improved rapidly after active antibiotic treatment, fluid resuscitation, and blood transfusion in the ICU. PPS is a rare complication after colonic polypectomy, with an incidence of approximately 0.14%-2.9%. It has also been reported after small bowel polypectomy. PPS can present with local abdominal pain, abdominal muscle tension, rebound pain, and local peritonitis. Some patients also develop fever and leukocytosis within 6 h to 5 d after surgery[9, 10]. Organ failure and sepsis are rarely reported. The etiology is transmural inflammation, localized peritonitis, and coagulopathy caused by electrical coagulation that burns the local intestinal wall. For colonic polypectomy, PPS occurs when the current passes through the mucosa into the muscularis propria and serosa layer without perforation. Hypertension, large lesions (> 2 cm), and in the ascending colon or cecum, and non-polypoid lesions are independent risk factors for PPS. Hypertension can increase the risk of PPS by three times. Larger polyps require high amounts of energy and longer duration of electrocoagulation, as well as ligation of more normal mucosa. A meta-analysis showed that the prophylactic use of antibiotics reduces the risk of PPS. WJGS 2347 October 27, 2023 Volume 15 Issue 10 Chen FZ et al. PPS without pain led to sepsis Figure 4 Clinical course with laboratory results and treatment. GSU: Gastrointestinal surgery unit; ICU: Intensive care unit; CFX: Cefoxitin; PTF: Plasma transfusion; FR: Fluid resuscitation; CTF: Coprecipitation transfusion; RT: Red cells transfusion; MAP: Mean arterial pressure; T: Daily maximum body temperature; PCT: Procalcitonin; PT: Prothrombin time; APTT: Activated partial thromboplastin time; IL-6: Interleukin 6. PPS shows several features on CT, including severe wall thickening and heterogeneous enhancement patterns, wall defects filled with fluid, surrounding fat infiltration, and the absence of extraluminal air. In addition, colonic segments are usually longer and thicker for
