World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pps, patient, sepsis, abdominal, pain, colon, normal, blood, shock, normal range, abdominal pain, range, day, november, fluid


wall thickening and heterogeneous enhancement patterns, wall defects filled with fluid, surrounding fat infiltration, and the absence of extraluminal air. In addition, colonic segments are usually longer and thicker for PPS than for colon perforations on CT. Patients with perforated colons can have different presentations depending on the location of the lesion. The perforation of a colon segment in the abdominal cavity, such as the mesentery, sigmoid colon, and cecum, is more likely to lead to free air and fluid in the abdominal cavity, while perforations of the ascending colon, descending colon, and rectum are more likely to lead to extraperitoneal air and fluid. The prognosis of PPS is good. Patients usually have pain, fever, and other mild abdominal inflammation symptoms, which disappear within 2-5 d, and they only require outpatient or ordinary infusion and symptomatic treatment. Antibiotic use for Gram-negative and anaerobic pathogens depends on the overall status of the patient. There are few reports that full-thickness burns in patients may progress to delayed perforation and require emergency surgical exploration. There were three noteworthy features of this case. First, shock occurred quickly during or after polypectomy. There were significant leukocytosis, elevated concentrations of inflammatory markers, and coagulopathy. In previous reports, PPS occurred at least 6 h after polypectomy. Secondly, there was no abdominal pain during the course of the disease, which is different from previous reports. Third, systemic inflammation was more severe than local inflam- mation. CT on the day 3 after the second polypectomy did not show extraluminal air or intestinal wall edema. However, the significantly higher concentrations of inflammatory markers, leukocytosis, shock, and SOFA score indicated a systemic inflammatory response. This case report, however, has one limitation. We did not perform abdominal CT immediately on the day of shock. The condition of the patient was critical, and he needed immediate rescue and could not leave the ICU for a CT scan. We analyzed the causes of sepsis and septic shock in this patient with PPS as follows. The patient had multiple broad- based polyps, with the largest diameter of 2 cm. Multiple polyps were removed during each polypectomy, resulting in large intestinal mucosal wounds and severe electrocoagulation injuries. Multiple ulcers after polypectomy may facilitate bacterial entry to the circulation and sepsis. Blood culture results released on November 29 (samples sent on November 23) indicated M. osloensis. At the time of submitting the blood culture sample, the patient
