World Journal of
KEYWORDS: pps, patient, sepsis, abdominal, pain, colon, normal, blood, shock, normal range, abdominal pain, range, day, november, fluid


the circulation and sepsis. Blood culture results released on November 29 (samples sent on November 23) indicated M. osloensis. At the time of submitting the blood culture sample, the patient was suffering from a second bout of sepsis and developed septic shock. The Gram-negative aerobic bacterium M. osloensis is an opportunistic pathogen, and may cause infection in immunosuppressed adults and non-immunodeficient children. It has previously been reported to cause brain tissue infection in patients with glioma. M. osloensis can cause bacteremia in immunodeficient patients. There was also a young patient on long-term peritoneal dialysis who developed diffuse peritonitis. M. osloensis was isolated from the peritoneal fluid, and eventually recovered after anti-infective treatment with cefazolin. The patient had a history of oral cancer and was likely to have sepsis due to an opportunistic infection caused by M. osloensis. In summary, the patient’s symptoms and laboratory results were in line with the diagnosis of local injury and infection of the intestinal wall after colonoscopic polypectomy, leading to bacterial entry into the blood and sepsis, followed by inflammatory storm, coagulation damage and shock. This was a particularly serious and life- threatening case of PPS. Physicians should be aware of the risk of severe PPS with sepsis and gastrointestinal bleeding after polypectomy. The absence of abdominal pain does not rule out a diagnosis of PPS. At the same time, removing too many polyps at one time should be avoided, and caution should be exercised, given the risk of PPS, when removing polyps at dangerous sites, such as the ascending colon and cecum. WJGS 2348 October 27, 2023 Volume 15 Issue 10 Chen FZ et al. PPS without pain led to sepsis CONCLUSION Abdominal pain is not a necessary symptom of PPS. PPS without abdominal pain may also lead to life-threatening sepsis and bleeding. When there is severe coagulopathy, it is necessary to stay alert for gastrointestinal bleeding. Physicians should take precautions against sepsis and septic shock caused by PPS. We recommend that patients with severe PPS should be transferred to the ICU for prompt treatment. FOOTNOTES observations, material preparation, and image collection; Ouyang L and Zhong XL interpreted the laboratory results and computed tomography images; Chen FZ, Li JX and Zhou YY reviewed the manuscript; all authors contributed to the study conception and design and read and approved the final manuscript. Supported by the Scientific Research Project of the Natural Science Foundation of Changsha,
