Annals ofthe Royal College ofSurgeons ofEngland (1987) vol. 69
KEYWORDS: patients, tumour, organ, invasion, oesophageal, tumours, stage, aorta, resection, involvement, lesions, organ invasion, direct, nodal, middle


Annals ofthe Royal College ofSurgeons ofEngland (1987) vol. 69 management The role of CT in the of the carcinoma oesophagus and cardia of J PDUIGNAN FRCSI DJ BOUCHIER-HAYES FRGS LecturerinSurgery Professor ofSurgery SurgicalRegistrar E O'MALLEY FRCSI DJ O'CONNELL FR(CR Pr(fessorofSurgeiy Key words: CARCINOMAOESOPHA(GUS, OESOPHAGoGASTRI(: JUN(:'I'I()N; (:()Ml'U'I'1-I)'I'()Mo(;RAP'HY' Summary Patientsandmethods The role ofcomputed lomography in assessing tumourspreadand During the study period 1stJanuary 1983 to 31st March tumourresectability wasevaluatedin50patients withoesophageal 1984 50 paticnts with histologically proven discase (29 carcinoma (17 middle third, 33 lower third). CT accurately squamous, 21 adenocarcinoma) werc assessed preoper- identified all patients with lumour confined to the oesophagus atively using CT and were subsequently re-assessed at (StageIorII) butwaslimiledin itsability to assess direct organ surgery. Scans were performed on a Siemen's Somatom 2 invasion (Stage III) with an overall accuracy for evaluating Scanncr using a scan time of five seconds and radio- middle third lesions of82% (aorta 70%, tracheobronchial tree graphic factors of 125kv and 230mA. Based on barium 94%, other mediastinal structures 82%) compared to an overall swallow appearances an initial scannogram was per- accuracyfor lower third lesions of97% (aorta 97%, pancreas formed and this was used to select sequential 8mm 100%, diaphragm97%). Tumoursdeemedresectableon CTwere sections at 8mm intervals through the lesion. In patients always resectable at operalion but two of seven middle third with tumours of the oesophagogastric junction sections tumours andone oftwelve lower thirdlesions deemedunresectable were also obtained through the liver but patients with underwent curative resection. middle third tumours were not evaluated for intra- Preoperative CTevaluation ofoesophageal tumours is useful in abdominal metastases. Dilute gastrografin was given that it may reliably identify tumour lesions confined lo the orally to outline the oesophageal tumour in all cases. oesophagus andreliably identify distant melastases. Becauseofits Using CT, tumours were assessed with regard to limitations however in the assessment oforgan invasion,particu- direct extramural tumour spread, lymph node involve- larly by middle thirdlesions, thisstudysuggests thatpatientswith ment, and distant metastases, and were staged using the oesophageal tumours with no evidence ofdistant metastases, who staging system proposed by Moss (9). Those confined to are otherwisefit to undergo lumour resection, shouldnot be denied theoesophagus with and withoutoesophageal wall thick- surgery on the sole basis ofpositive organ invasion on CT ening (Stage I and II) were considered together. Pre- particularly ifthat organ is the aorta. viously defined criteria (11,12) were used for the detec- tion of direct organ invasion (Stage III) and distant Introduction metastases
