Annals ofthe Royal College ofSurgeons ofEngland (1987) vol. 69
KEYWORDS: patients, tumour, organ, invasion, oesophageal, tumours, stage, aorta, resection, involvement, lesions, organ invasion, direct, nodal, middle


were considered together. Pre- particularly ifthat organ is the aorta. viously defined criteria (11,12) were used for the detec- tion of direct organ invasion (Stage III) and distant Introduction metastases (Stage IV). Organ invasion was defined as Thle prognosis for carcinoma ofthe oesophagus remains indentation, displaecment or compression ofthe relevant dismal despite advances in surgical management (1-3). structure. Middle third tumours were evaluated with Becausc of the significant morbidity and mortality regard to involvement of aorta, tracheobronchial tree associated with tumour resection (1,3) it has been sug- (T-B) and other mediastinal structures (pleura, pericar- gested that symptomatic patients with an expected short dium and atrium) while lower third lesions were evalu- duration ofsurvival becausc ofextensive local disease or ated with regard to direct invasion ofaorta, diaphragm distant metastases should be palliated by other means and pancreas. such as peroral endoprosthesis (4,5), tumour dilatation With regard todistant metastases (Stage IV), tumours (6) or laser photocoagulation (7,8). Recently computed were assessed for nodal involvement. Loweroesophageal tomography has been recommended as a useful method tumours were also assessed for liver metastases. Nodal for prcoperative staging ofsuch tumours (9,10). The aim enlagement greater than 0.5cm was considered indica- ofthis study was to cvaluatc the role ofpreoperative CT tive of tumour involvement. Tumours deemed free of in tumoursoftheoesophagus andocsophagogastricjunc- organ invasion or liver metastases on CT, (Stage I tion, in particular its role in deciding further manage- or II), were considered suitable for curative resection. ment of paticnts who arc otherwise considered fit to Lymph node enlargement alonewas not considered to be undergo tumour rcsection. indicative ofa Stage IV lesion. Similar details were recorded by the operating Correspondence to: J Duignan FRCSI, Consultant Surgeon, surgeon. Resection oftumour confined to theoesophagus CTin cardio-oesophageal 287 surgery metastases (Stage I or II) was considered cur-ative. Organ invasion was defined as tumour adherent to the relevant organ. Gross lymph node enlargement alone (>0.5cm) was not considered to be indicative of a Stage IV lesion. CT findings were correlated with the surgical findings by an independent observer anid, where avail- able with histological examination ofthe resected speci- men. Afalsepositive findingwasafindingdetermined by CTbutnotconfirmed atsurgery. A false negative finding was a finding determined at surgery that had not becn detected on CT. Fifty consecutive patients with no clinical or radiolo- gical (excluding CT) evidence of distant metastatic dis- ease and who were deemed fit to undergo major surgery were included in the
