Annals ofthe Royal College ofSurgeons ofEngland (1987) vol. 69
KEYWORDS: patients, tumour, organ, invasion, oesophageal, tumours, stage, aorta, resection, involvement, lesions, organ invasion, direct, nodal, middle


Fifty consecutive patients with no clinical or radiolo- gical (excluding CT) evidence of distant metastatic dis- ease and who were deemed fit to undergo major surgery were included in the study. Thlere were 31 males and 19 females, with an age range of42 to 87 years and a meani age of60 years. Seventeen paticnts (Group 1) had carci- nioma of the middle third of the oesophagus (all squamous carcinoma) dcfined as lesions between 18cm and 35cm from the upper incisors at endoscopy, whilc 33 patients (Group 2) had carcinoma of the lower third and Ic. 1 Small loweroesophageal tumour (arrow) considered to cardia (12 squamous carcinoma). A left thoraco- be resectable. Note the well-outlined fat strips around the abdominal approach was used in 27 patients while 23 tumour, separating the lesion from the aorta and azygos vein. patients had a laparotomy and right thoracotomy (Ivor- This tumour was resectable at surgery. Lcwis procedurc). Results .X/1I1)1)1,E rHIRD) lUMO(L)1TRS Using CT, seven ofseventeen patients with middle third lesions werc adjudged to have direct organ invasiorn by tumour (Stagc III). At operation howevcr, two of the seven were found to be free oforgan invasion, (aorta and TI'B tree, aorta) and this was subsequently confirmcd histologically (two false positives). The overall accuracy of CT in assessing direct organ invasion by tumour was 82% (Table I). Accuracy in assessing aorta, TB tree and other mediastinal structures was 70, 94 and 82% respec- tively. Four ofseventeen patients had nodal enlargemeiit on CAT while three had nodal clllargemcnt at operation. Histological examination however demonstrated that both CT and operative assessment of nodal involvemetit were inaccurate, by confirmiiig nodal involvement in eight of the sixtCeII resected specinmens-threc with ob- vious nodalenlargemcnt atoperationi and five witlh nodes less than 0.5cm despitc tumour involvemcnt. Ic;. 2 Bulky midoesophageal tumour with irregular Sixtcen middle third lesions were resected. Tcn oesophageal lumeii (arrow). he peri-aortic and peribronchial t (S u t m a o g u e rs I o d r ee I m I) ed un r d e e s r ec w t e a n b t le cu o r n ati C v T e r a e n se d ct a i t on op (F e i r g a . ti 1 o ) n . t t ad u t m s o t u ri r ps w a
