Annals ofthe Royal College ofSurgeons ofEngland (1987) vol. 69
KEYWORDS: patients, tumour, organ, invasion, oesophageal, tumours, stage, aorta, resection, involvement, lesions, organ invasion, direct, nodal, middle


P Dui~gnan, G P McEnlee el al. TABLE 11 StageIIIloweroesophagealtumours II) or that it has spread to the liver (Stage IV) and it could be argued therefore that the cost ofroutine preop- Assessment Stage III Aorta Diaphragm Pancreas Liver crativc CT assessment of patients who arc otherwisc considered fit to undergo tumour resection, would be CT 12 5 3 3 3 offset by avoiding the unnecessary expensc of surgery in Surgery 11 4 3 3 4 patients identified on CT as having distant metastases. The number of 'fit' patients with Stage IV disease Falsepositive 1 1 0 0 Falsenegative 0 0 0 1 however in this and other scrics (9,12) is small. Furth- ermore CT was unreliable in cvaluating local tumour spread beyond the oesophageal wall, in particular local spread ofmiddle third lesions. We would suggest there- histological examination of the 20 specimens however forc that patients who arc considered fit to undergo demonstrated microscopic evidence oftumour extension tumour resection should not be denied operative assess- to the resection margins in 9 patients. One patient ment on the sole basis ofa CT finding ofadjacent organ deemed resectable on CT was found to have liver metas- involvement, particularly ifthat organ is the aorta. tases at operation and resection was not performed. Two patients with direct organ invasion both on CT and at operation underwent palliative resection while a third Wewould like to thank ProfessorT P Hennessy forallowingus with no gross evidence of aortic involvement, as pre- toincludesomeofhis patients in thisstudy. Wewouldalsolike dicted on CT, underwent curative resection-all three to acknowledge the help of Maria Meehan in typing this had histological evidence of tumour extension to the manuscript. resection margins. Discussion References In evaluating the role of CT in the management of I Ellis FHJr, Gibb PS. Oesophagogastrectomy for carcino- oesophageal tumours we have used the criteria recently ma: current hospital mortality and morbidity rates. Ann proposed by Husband-namely its accuracy, the extra Surg 1979;190:699-705. information provided by the technique, its influence on 2 Payne WS, PearsonJG, Ellis FHJr, Parker EF. Carcinoma subsequent patient management and final outcome of oftheoesophagus (symposium). ContempSurg 1983;12:50- 8. discase and the economic implications (13). 3 Riccone A, Le Veen HH, Ahmed N, Grosberg S. Reapprai- In our experienec CT accurately evaluated lower sal ofoesophagogastrectomy for oesophageal malignancy. oesophageal tumours but was limited in its ability to AmJ Surg 1979;137:32-9. assess middle third lesions, in particular in
