YALE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 83 (2010), pp.193-200.
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, viral, children, influenza, tract, hmpv, infection, viruses, respiratory tract, rsv, human, virus, tract infections, pcr


Copyright © 2010. REVIEw the changing Face of Pediatric respiratory tract Infections: How Human Metapneumovirus and Human Bocavirus Fit into the overall Etiology of respiratory tract Infections in Young children Lower respiratory tract infections are one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in children worldwide. Recent technological advances in the field of molecular biology have allowed virologists to detect many previously undetected viral pathogens. Two of these, interest to pediatric health care providers. This review discusses the most common viral respiratory infections in children, explores the role of newly discovered respiratory pathogens, and describes techniques for the diagnosis of viral respiratory infections. IntroductIon to 1.9 million children die each year due to Lower respiratory tract infections, acute respiratory illnesses . commonly caused by viruses , are one Lower respiratory tract infections are of the leading causes of morbidity and mor- not only difficult for the patient, but they tality in children worldwide. In the United can also be difficult for the medical provider States, approximately 30,000 children each to diagnose . There are many laboratory- year are hospitalized during their first year based diagnostic criteria that help physi- of life due to a viral lower respiratory tract cians determine if an infection is due to infection . In developing countries, the bacterial or viral etiology, a distinction that *To whom all correspondence should be addressed: Joshua Hustedt, Yale Pediatrics, PO Box 208064, New Haven, CT 06520-8064; Tele: 203-737-6018; E-mail: . †Abbreviations: hMPV, human metapneumovirus; HBoV, human bocavirus; RSV, respira- tory syncytial virus; H, hemagglutinin; N, neuraminidase; AAP, American Academy of Pe- diatrics; ACIP, US Center for Disease Control’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices; PCR, polymerase chain reaction; ELISA, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; VSV, vesicular stomatitis virus; VLP, virus-like particles; RSV, respiratory syncycial virus. Keywords: pediatric respiratory tract infections; communicable diseases, emerging; human bocavirus; metapneumovirus 194 Hustedt: Changing face of pediatric respiratory tract infections Figure 1. This pie chart summa- rizes the viral etiology findings of a study published by Regamey et al. The study followed 197 children during the first year of life for viral respiratory infection. One hundred twenty-two children developed res- piratory illness during that year. The pie chart summarizes the etio- logical cause of the respiratory symptoms of the 122 children who developed respiratory tract infec- tion(s). But even with state-of-the-art diagnostic fluenza virus, adenovirus, and influenza tools, there are many cases that are simply viruses
