YALE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 83 (2010), pp.193-200.
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, viral, children, influenza, tract, hmpv, infection, viruses, respiratory tract, rsv, human, virus, tract infections, pcr


symptoms of the 122 children who developed respiratory tract infec- tion(s). But even with state-of-the-art diagnostic fluenza virus, adenovirus, and influenza tools, there are many cases that are simply viruses . However, two newly discovered classified as undiagnosable in terms of their viruses, human metapneumovirus (hMPV) etiology. These cases, hereafter referred to as and human bocavirus (HBoV), have joined undiagnosable respiratory infections, have the list of significant contributors. Both caused many researchers to wonder if there viruses, discovered in 2001 and 2005 re- are just many more pathogens out there than spectively, constitute up to 13 percent of pre- are currently known [5-7]. Recent discover- viously undiagnosable respiratory infections ies show that there are new pathogens emerg- in children . Additionally, both coron- ing and that continuing research in avirus and rhinovirus, traditionally regarded respiratory illnesses is an essential compo- as causes of upper respiratory tract infection, nent of battling this global issue. now have been shown to be present in lower This review will focus on the role of respiratory tract infection and, therefore, newly discovered viruses in lower respira- should be included in studies looking at all tory tract infections in children. The review respiratory tract infections . will cover an overview of the most common Identifying the viral etiology of respira- pediatric viral infections, highlight ad- tory infections in children can be challeng- vances in the treatment of these viruses, re- ing, especially due to concurrent infections. view the laboratory techniques for A study by Regamey et al. followed 197 identifying newly discovered respiratory children during their first years of life and viruses (specifically human metapneu- found that 122 (62 percent) had at least one movirus and human bocavirus), and discuss acute respiratory infection in that first year the importance of continued research in the . Fifteen (17 percent) had dual infections field. Gaining an understanding of respira- (infections due to two distinct pathogens), tory tract infections and remaining up-to- and three (3 percent) had triple infections. date on the current discoveries and The findings from Regamey et al. are shown treatments for these illnesses is an impor- in Figure 1. Together, rhinoviruses, coron- care provider. and HBoV accounted for 49 percent of cases, highlighting the role that hMPV and HBoV play in the etiology of respiratory VIral rEsPIratorY InFEctIons tract infections in children. Gaining a better In cHIldrEn understanding of these newly discovered Until recently, most
