YALE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 83 (2010), pp.193-200.
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, viral, children, influenza, tract, hmpv, infection, viruses, respiratory tract, rsv, human, virus, tract infections, pcr


that hMPV and HBoV play in the etiology of respiratory VIral rEsPIratorY InFEctIons tract infections in children. Gaining a better In cHIldrEn understanding of these newly discovered Until recently, most viral lower respira- viruses is important in gaining a better un- tory infections in children were attributed to derstanding of respiratory infections in chil- respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), parain- dren. Hustedt: Changing face of pediatric respiratory tract infections 195 This review will present a brief overview port that none of the above mentioned med- of four important viral respiratory pathogens: ications significantly improve clinical out- RSV, influenza, hMPV, and HBoV. comes compared to supportive therapy, such as hydration and oxygenation . Currently, no vaccine is available to rEsPIratorY sYncYcIal VIrus prevent RSV infection, but several vaccine (rsV) candidates are in the early stages of clinical RSV is a member of the Paramyxoviri- trials . Preventive measures include the daefamily, genus Pneumovirus. RSV is de- use of a humanized monoclonal antibody, scribed as the single most important viral Palivizumab®, which has been shown to pathogen causing acute respiratory infec- significantly decrease infection in high-risk tions in young children. RSV causes illness children when given as prophylaxis during in both young infants and in the elderly . RSV season . Palivizumab’s beneficial In infants, RSV is a common cause of bron- effects are due to its role as a monoclonal chiolitis, a lower respiratory tract infection antibody (IgG) directed against the A anti- characterized by wheezing (due to bron- genic site of the F protein of RSV. It is ad- choconstriction), increased secretions, and ministered via intramuscular injection and hypoxia. Additional symptoms may include prevents viral infection by binding the virus labored breathing and/or rapid breathing, in situ. While this treatment is effective, it is cough, stuffy nose, and cyanosis (bluish tint expensive and reserved for those at high to the skin due to lack of oxygen). Serolog- risk, such as premature infants. ical evidence shows that almost all children are exposed to RSV during the first three InFluEnza years of life . However, previous infec- tion does not prevent subsequent infections, Influenza viruses are a group of viruses and repeat infections are common in all age in the Orthomyxoviridae family. While in- groups. Peak infection rates occur in infants fluenza is commonly referred to as the “flu,” aged 6 weeks to 6 months. influenza is actually a group of viruses in
