YALE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 83 (2010), pp.193-200.
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, viral, children, influenza, tract, hmpv, infection, viruses, respiratory tract, rsv, human, virus, tract infections, pcr


in- groups. Peak infection rates occur in infants fluenza is commonly referred to as the “flu,” aged 6 weeks to 6 months. influenza is actually a group of viruses in RSV takes a heavy toll on infants each three genuses: Influenza A, Influenza B, and year, with up to 500 deaths in the United Influenza C. Influenza A is further classified States . Infants who are younger than 3 by hemagglutinin (H) and neuraminidase months or have a history of premature birth, (N) sub-types. For example, the 2009 global bronchopulmonary dysplasia, congenital heart pandemic of swine flu was due to influenza disease, cystic fibrosis, or immunosuppression A, type H1N1. Infection by Influenza B pro- are more pre-disposed to RSV infection. duces a less serious disease, while Influenza Treatment for RSV remains controversial C is not known to cause epidemics. In- . Available treatments include beta-ago- fluenza A and Influenza B are important nists, corticosteroids, racemic epinephrine, causes of respiratory tract infection in chil- and ribavirin (an anti-viral medication used to dren of all ages. Common symptoms of suppress RSV viral replication). Beta-ag- these viruses include fever, cough, sore noists, corticosteroids, and racemic epineph- throat, runny or stuffy nose, headache, rine all target the symptoms of bronchiolitis, chills, muscle aches, and, in children, even with the end goal of dilating the airway and diarrhea and vomiting. decreasing secretions to allow for adequate During the 2009 influenza season, 269 oxygen exchange in the lungs. Ribavirin is a children younger than 18 died from in- seldom-used anti-viral medication that targets fluenza-related symptoms. Approximately RSV viral replication. The end goal of Rib- 70 percent of the deaths occurred in children avirin treatment is to decrease the amount of with underlying medical conditions, but 30 virus in the affected tissue, reducing the virus’ percent of the deaths occurred in previously ability to cause disease. However, in a sys- healthy children . Vaccines have been tematic review by King et al., the authors re- successful in reducing morbidity and mor- 196 Hustedt: Changing face of pediatric respiratory tract infections tality, yet children continue to suffer from might benefit from the decrease in duration of the fact that different strains of influenza are antiviral therapy . However, the use of in- prevalent every year. fluenza anti-virals is always a clinical balanc- The American Academy of Pediatrics ing act, as the anti-virals are expensive, have (AAP) and the
