YALE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 83 (2010), pp.193-200.
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, viral, children, influenza, tract, hmpv, infection, viruses, respiratory tract, rsv, human, virus, tract infections, pcr


the use of in- prevalent every year. fluenza anti-virals is always a clinical balanc- The American Academy of Pediatrics ing act, as the anti-virals are expensive, have (AAP) and the U.S. Center for Disease Con- side effects (such as headache, sore throat, trol’s Advisory Committee on Immunization nausea, vomiting, and, rarely, allergic reac- Practices (ACIP) currently recommend that tion), and the overuse of the medications can all children older than 6 months receive the lead to influenza strains resistant to anti-virals. influenza vaccine each year . Recent studies also have suggested that giving the HuMan MEtaPnEuMoVIrus vaccine to pregnant mothers offers protec- tion to the newborn during the first six In June 2001, researchers in the Nether- months of life, presumably via passive trans- lands identified a new respiratory pathogen fer of immunity from the mother . isolated from respiratory secretions in chil- Treatment for influenza includes four dren with respiratory tract disease . Fur- currently available anti-viral medications: ther analysis showed the new pathogen to be amantadine, rimantadine, anamivir, and os- a paramyxovirus, the first known non-avian eltamivir . Oseltamivir (trade name pathogen of the Metapneumovirus genus. Tamiflu®) and zanamivir (trade name Re- This new pathogen, termed hMPV, was lenza®) are neuraminidase inhibitors that found to be closely related to RSV. are often effective against Influenza A and Esper et al. showed that hMPV is a sig- B. Neuraminidase inhibitors block the neu- nificant contributor to respiratory illnesses in raminidase enzyme that cleaves budding children, responsible for up to 8 percent of viral progeny just prior to release, therefore previously undiagnosable viral respiratory effectively blocking viral replication. Aman- infections . The clinical presentation of tadine (trade name Symmetrel®) and ri- hMPV is similar to that of other respiratory mantadine (trade name Flumadine®) target viruses, such as the closely associated RSV. a viral ion channel necessary in the uncoat- Both upper and lower respiratory tract infec- ing process of Influenza A, thereby prevent- tions have been shown to be caused by Amantadine and rimantadine are effective wheezing, hypoxia, and fever . Infection against Influenza A only and reach maxi- occurs in all age groups, but young children mum benefit when begun early in infection. and the elderly are most commonly affected. Influenza viruses have a high rate of muta- Serological studies have been under- tion, and anti-viral resistance has been an taken to examine the extent of hMPV in the
