YALE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 83 (2010), pp.193-200.
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, viral, children, influenza, tract, hmpv, infection, viruses, respiratory tract, rsv, human, virus, tract infections, pcr


affected. Influenza viruses have a high rate of muta- Serological studies have been under- tion, and anti-viral resistance has been an taken to examine the extent of hMPV in the ongoing issue with the development of in- general population and have shown that al- fluenza anti-viral medications. The CDC most all people are infected with hMPV by provides recommendations on the use of the age of 5 . For most, the symptoms anti-virals to minimize the risk of viral re- are similar to a mild cold. Yet in some chil- sistance to the medications and currently dren, hMPV can be the cause of severe res- only recommends the use of oseltamivir and piratory infection requiring hospitalization zanamivir for treatment in the United States. due to respiratory failure. Influenza anti-virals are most effective hMPV appears to have a seasonal dis- when started early in infection (within 48 tribution, with most infections occurring hours) . The AAP recommends antiviral during the winter and spring . There are treatment be considered in any child with in- no antiviral treatments for hMPV infection fluenza who is also at high risk of influenza currently available or in clinical trials. Treat- complications, regardless of vaccination sta- ment options include supportive care for res- tus, and any otherwise healthy child with piratory infections, bronchodilators, and moderate-to-severe influenza infection who inhaled corticosteroids. Hustedt: Changing face of pediatric respiratory tract infections 197 HuMan BocaVIrus beled with an immunofluorescent tag to identify the presence of live virus in a sam- HBoV is a parvovirus first described in ple, can offer a rapid diagnosis. Direct im- 2005 by Allander and colleagues in respira- munofluorescence tests generally have a tory samples from Sweden . Allander’s sensitivity of 95 percent to 100 percent . research team identified HBoV by random The advent of PCR has greatly en- polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of hanced identification and classification of samples from patients with pneumonia. The viruses. PCR has proven to be a very sensi- team identified a parvovirus-like sequence by tive and specific method for the detection of sequencing all possible DNA/RNA material respiratory viruses , and the recent de- in the samples and comparing them to known velopment of real-time PCR has allowed viral, bacterial, and human sequences. Phy- PCR to be used in rapid diagnostics. logenetic analysis showed that this novel par- Serological Diagnosis and Viral Culture vovirus was most closely related
