YALE JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 83 (2010), pp.193-200.
KEYWORDS: respiratory, infections, viral, children, influenza, tract, hmpv, infection, viruses, respiratory tract, rsv, human, virus, tract infections, pcr


viral, bacterial, and human sequences. Phy- PCR to be used in rapid diagnostics. logenetic analysis showed that this novel par- Serological Diagnosis and Viral Culture vovirus was most closely related to bovine parvovirus and a canine minute virus. The Serological diagnosis can be performed only other known parvovirus with clinical using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent implications is parvovirus B19, which causes assay (ELISA). An ELISA can identify anti- fifth disease or erythema infectiosum (a com- bodies in human serum against a specific mon rash of childhood) and can have serious virus and can be used to detect current in- complications such as aplastic crisis in he- fection as well as past viral exposure. Al- molytic syndromes (such as sickle cell dis- though viral culture remains the gold ease) and hydrops fetalis in fetuses. standard for viral detection, PCR and newer HBoV is a small, but significant contrib- technologies in molecular biology are likely utor to respiratory tract infections in children. to replace viral culture in the future. Many amined respiratory isolates from children and follow up with viral culture. with respiratory illness that were negative for all other known viral pathogens. Of these pre- HuMan MEtaPnEuMoVIrus viously undiagnosable specimens, 5.2 percent tested positive for HBoV . In serological hMPV PCR studies, researchers have found that almost all children are exposed to HBoV by the time hMPV has five main viral genes that can they are 5 years old . be identified by PCR: the nucleoprotein (N), HBoV infection is clinically similar to phosphoprotein (P) matrix (M), fusion (F), other respiratory virus infections. Common and polymerase (L). hMPV is difficult to symptoms include fever, rhinorrhea, cough, grow in culture, so PCR is the predominant and wheezing . To date, there are no method used to detect the virus. In a compar- HBoV. Mainstays of treatment include sup- Coté and colleagues found that the N and L portive care, inhaled bronchodilators, and genes, which code for two internal hMPV corticosteroids. viral proteins, were most suitable for hMPV diagnosis. The sequences for the primers used can be found in their paper . MEtHods to IdEntIFY tHE VIrusEs causIng InFEctIon hMPV ELISA An hMPV ELISA technique was devel- Rapid Diagnosis oped at Yale University by Leung et al . Rapid diagnoses of viral infections can These researchers cloned the fusion (F) gene be obtained using immunofluorescence and of hMPV into vesicular stomatitis virus PCR techniques.
