Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


desen- Clinical evidence has shown sensory cross-sensitization sitization of unmyelinated nociceptive C-fiber afferents between the urinary bladder and the distal colon [1-5]. ; in humans, RTX has also been suggested for Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are therapeutic intervention of visceral disorders . more likely to experience nocturia and some forms of In our previous studies, we have successfully used RTX urinary urge incontinence compared to the non-IBD to block colonic inflammation-induced TrkA up-regula- population . Other forms of cross-organ sensitization tion in the colonic afferent neurons . These studies are also observed in experimental animals. Rats or mice suggest a role of TRPV1 in inflammation-induced sen- induced for cystitis or colitis exhibit decreases in the sory plasticity. threshold to stimulation of the hindpaw demonstrating The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has a viscero-somatic cross-sensitization [6-8]. Inflammation been postulated to play an important role in inflamma- in the lower extremities also causes an enhanced tion-induced sensory hypersensitivity by modulating response to colorectal distension , suggesting the sensitivity of primary afferents [19,35-37]. Blockade that visceral sensitivity can also be influenced by the of BDNF action with spinal intrathecal injection of irritation of non-visceral organs. Recent studies in BDNF/TrkB antiserum has significantly reduced anesthetized animals have shown that colonic irritation inflammation-induced hyperalgesia . Systemic leads to neurogenic cystitis as manifested by irritative knockdown of BDNF activity by intraperitoneal injec- micturition patterns and increases in micturition fre- tion of BDNF neutralizing antibody also reverses coli- quency . Conversely cystitis induced by cyclopho- tis-induced colonic hypersensitivity . Conversely, sphamide also increases colorectal afferent sensitivity in intraperitoneal injection of BDNF protein significantly mice . These observations indicate a broad phenom- enhances colonic sensitivity and decreases the colonic enon between organ to organ sensory cross-interaction. reaction threshold in healthy rats . A recent study The currently proposed mechanism and pathways has shown that with colitis BDNF(+/-) mice exhibit underlying cross-organ sensitization may involve activa- weaker visceral responses to colorectal distension and tion of primary afferent pathways [14-16]. Rodents with lower sensitivity in the colon than BDNF(+/+) mice experimentally induced colonic inflammation exhibit an . These findings imply that the increased level of enhanced firing of bladder C-fibers in response to blad- BDNF in primary sensory neurons in the DRG during der distension . Activation of primary afferent colonic inflammation may have a role in mediat- pathways by one form of peripheral organ irritation may ing visceral
