Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


in the DRG during der distension . Activation of primary afferent colonic inflammation may have a role in mediat- pathways by one form of peripheral organ irritation may ing visceral hypersensitivity. lead to cross-activation of the primary afferent neurons projecting to another peripheral organ or lead to Materials and methods central sensitization in the spinal cord . This is par- Intracolonic instillation of TNBS to induce localized ticularly true with colonic inflammation which not only colonic inflammation sensitizes colonic afferent neurons but also alters the Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (150-200 g) from Har- molecular profiles of bladder afferent neurons in the lan Sprague Dawley, Inc. were used for this study. To dorsal root ganglia (DRG). It has been reported that induce inflammation in the distal colon, fasted rats were colonic inflammation significantly increases the expres- anesthetized (2% isoflurane, SurgiVet, Smiths Medical sion level of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) PM, Inc. Waukesha, WI). A single dose of TNBS was , and increases the currents of TTX-resistant (TTX- instilled into the lumen of the colon 6 cm proximal to R) Na+ channels in specifically labeled bladder sen- the anus at a dose of 90 mg/kg (1.5 mL/kg of 60 mg/ sory neurons. mL solution in 50% EtOH) through a polyethylene (PE) The transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channel of catheter. Control animals received a similar volume of the vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) is involved in many sys- 50% EtOH. Examinations were performed 3 days post tems during inflammation and sensory sensitization TNBS or vehicle treatment. [21-26]. TRPV1 receptor antagonist has prevented the visceral hypersensitivity to intracolonic mechanical and Harvest of tissues chemical stimulation . Animals deficient in TRPV1 The distal colon and the urinary bladder from control exhibit reduced responses of primary sensory afferent and the inflamed animals were removed, fixed with 4% fibers to mechanical distension of the colon . The paraformaldehyde and sectioned transversely at a thick- activity of TRPV1 is regulated by potent agonist such as ness of 10 μm, or the distal colon underwent whole resiniferatoxin (RTX) in a biphasic fashion. Acute RTX mount dissection for separation of the mucosal, submu- treatment results in enhanced TRPV1 activity, while a cosal, and muscle layers. The DRGs were sectioned at a prolonged treatment with RTX produces desensitization thickness of 20 μm. Tissues from control and experi- of the receptor [27-31]. In animal studies, a prolonged mental animals were handled in
