Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


a prolonged treatment with RTX produces desensitization thickness of 20 μm. Tissues from control and experi- of the receptor [27-31]. In animal studies, a prolonged mental animals were handled in an identical manner. Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 Page3of14 Hematoxylin and eosin (H &E) stain to assess the number of the positive stain in each field was counted morphology and inflammation of the colon and the and averaged within each animal. The size of the field urinary bladder was measured. The results were expressed as number of Transverse sections of the distal colons and urinary TRPV1 stain per mm2. bladders from all animals were stained with an H & E staining kit according to the protocol provided by the Protein extraction and western blot manufacture (Richard-Allan-Scientific, Kalamazoo, MI). Segments from the distal colon were homogenized in The sections were examined with a Zeiss brightfield solubilization buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl, 150 microscope. The histology score was graded to reflect mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1% Triton X-100, and 100 the severity of the visceral inflammation (1, no inflam- mM NaF supplemented with protease and phosphatase mation; 2, very low inflammation; 3, low level of infiltra- inhibitor cocktails (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). The homoge- tion; 4, high level of infiltration and vascular density; 5, nate was centrifuged at 20,200 g for 10 min at 4°C, and transmural infiltrations and high vascular density). The the supernatant was removed to a fresh tube for further increases in the thickness of the muscular wall, the analysis. The protein concentration was determined width of the submucosal space (lamina propria), and the using Bio-Rad DC protein assay kit. depth of the mucosal layer were also considered as signs Proteins were separated on a 10% SDS-PAGE gel and of inflammation. transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. The mem- brane was blocked with 5% milk in Tris-buffered saline Immunohistochemistry for 1 hour and then incubated with rabbit ant-TRPV1 Sections and the tissue layers were incubated with (1:1000) antibody followed by goat anti-rabbit IRDye blocking solution containing 3% normal donkey serum 800 CW. For internal loading control, the same mem- in PBST (0.3% Triton X-100 in 0.1 M PBS, pH 7.4) for brane was stripped and re-probed with antibody against 30 min followed by rabbit anti-TRPV1 (1:1000, Chemi- b-actin (1:2000, Sigma). The bands were identified and con International Inc., CA), rabbit anti-BDNF (1:500, analyzed with the ODYSSEY infrared imaging system Santa Cruz, CA), and/or
