Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


rabbit anti-TRPV1 (1:1000, Chemi- b-actin (1:2000, Sigma). The bands were identified and con International Inc., CA), rabbit anti-BDNF (1:500, analyzed with the ODYSSEY infrared imaging system Santa Cruz, CA), and/or sheep anti-BDNF (1:200, Che- (Li-cor Biosciences, Lincoln, NE). The expression level micon International Inc., CA) primary antibodies over- of the target protein in control animal from each inde- night at 4°C. After rinsing (3 × 10 min with 0.1 M PBS), pendent experiment was considered as 1, and the rela- tissues were incubated with Alexa 594-conjugated spe- tive expression level of the target protein in cies-specific secondary antibody for 2 hours at room experimental animals was adjusted as a ratio to its inter- temperature. Some of the tissues were also co-stained nal loading control in each independent experiment. with guinea pig anti-PGP9.5 primary antibody (1:1000, Chemicon International Inc., CA) followed by Alexa Drug delivery to animals 488-conjugated species-specific secondary antibody. Fol- To specifically desensitize or destroy the colonic affer- lowing washing, the slides were coverslipped with Citi- ents, RTX was dissolved in 10% Tween-80, 10% ethanol, fluor (Citifluor Ltd., London). Immunostaining in the and normal saline and administered intracolonically absence of primary or secondary antibody was assessed (into the lumen of the colon) at a dose of 250 μg/kg/2 for background evaluation. The specificity of the antibo- mL 10 days prior to test. BDNF antibody or control IgG dies was also evaluated with western blot or pre-absorp- (100 μg/kg body weight, Santa Cruz, CA) was delivered tion assay. into the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord via an Tissue sections were viewed and analyzed under a intrathecal (i.t.) catheter (No. 0007740, Alzet) connected Zeiss fluorescent photomicroscope. DRG neurons to an osmotic-pump four days before expressing BDNF were counted in 4 to 6 sections of TNBS instillation, and was continuously delivered until each DRG, and expressed as mean ± SE for n animals. the day of examination which was 3 days post TNBS Similar sized sections were chosen using the microscope treatment. The tip of the catheter was positioned at the measurement program and all the positive cells were L4-L5 spinal level and was confirmed after euthanasia of counted in the sections. The results were expressed as the animals. This delivery site was chosen because of its number of cells per section. To avoid double counting, position located in the middle of L1 and S1 segments we have chosen every third
