Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


site was chosen because of its number of cells per section. To avoid double counting, position located in the middle of L1 and S1 segments we have chosen every third DRG section for BDNF where we found that BDNF was up-regulated during immunostaining. For analysis of the TRPV1 immunor- colitis. This procedure was done under anesthesia (2.5% eactivity in the distal colon, three random microscopy isoflurane). fields were chosen from each section with caution to avoid field overlap. Each field was positioned to view a Measurement of urinary bladder micturition pattern similar morphological area covering the entire width of Under anesthesia (2.5% isoflurane), a lower midline the colon that showed positive TRPV1 stain. The abdominal incision was performed and a PE-50 catheter Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 Page4of14 was inserted into the urinary bladder through a small immunohistochemistry and western blot techniques. incision made by an 18 G needle at the tip of the blad- During colonic inflammation, the TRPV1-like immunor- der dome. The catheter was secured in place with a 6-0 eactivity was dramatically enhanced within the muscular nylon purse-string suture. The distal end of the tubing layer (indicated by *) and the submucosal plexus (indi- was externalized at the back of the neck and the rat was cated by #) of the distal colon (Figure 1F) when com- allowed to recover. Four days after the catheter was pared to the non-inflamed distal colon (Figure 1E, J). implanted, the animal was placed into a recording The density of TRPV1 immunoreactivity was not altered chamber (Med Associates, St. Albans, VT). The distal in the urinary bladder before (Figure 1G) and after (Fig- end of the catheter was connected via a T tube to a ure 1H) induction of colonic inflammation. To examine pressure transducer and a syringe pump (Med Associ- the specificity of the TRPV1-immunoreactive structures ates, St. Albans, VT). Animals were allowed to recover in the distal colon, we performed pre-absorption assay from anesthesia and explore the new environment. The with a TRPV1 blocking peptide (5 μg/mL, Santa Cruz, baseline of the bladder pressure was obtained before a CA) and found that this blocking peptide completely 0.9% saline solution was infused into the bladder at a abolished the TRPV1-like immunoreactivity in both rate of 9 mL/h according to the manufacture’s sugges- regions of the muscular layer and the submucosal area tions. After initial stabilization, the micturition pattern (compare Figure 2B to 2A), suggesting
