Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


of 9 mL/h according to the manufacture’s sugges- regions of the muscular layer and the submucosal area tions. After initial stabilization, the micturition pattern (compare Figure 2B to 2A), suggesting that the punctu- of the urinary bladder was recorded for a period of 20 ated staining in the distal colon by this TRPV1 antibody to 30 min. No particular time of the day was chosen for was specific TRPV1 immunoreactivity. Further examina- each animal. Control animals and animals receiving tion with double immunostaining showed that the treatment were randomly assigned for testing during the TRPV1 immunoreactivity in the inflamed distal colon day. The bladder inter-micturition intervals (seconds was expressed in PGP9.5 positive structures (Figure 2C- between two voiding) were measured, analyzed and H). These co-localization studies were conducted with expressed as seconds/interval. The quantity of urine of transverse sections (Figure 2C-E) and the whole-mount each voiding was automatically weighed by a scale inte- preparation of the inflamed distal colon (Figure 2F-H). grated in the system, and was analyzed and expressed as Both methods demonstrated consistent results showing gram (g). that all TRPV1 immunoreactivity was expressed in PGP9.5 positive structures (Figure 2C-H, white arrows), Statistical analysis but not all PGP9.5 positive structures contained TRPV1 The results from each study were presented as mean ± (Figure 2C-H, blue arrows). SE for n animals. Comparison between control and Western blot results confirmed the findings above experimental groups was made by using a one-way showing that the protein expression level of TRPV1 was t test was used. Differences between means at a level of colonic inflammation (Figure 3). In contrast, colonic p ≤ 0.05 were considered to be significant. inflammation did not alter the expression level of TRPV1 in the urinary bladder (Figure 3). Results Colonic inflammation increased TRPV1 expression in the Colonic inflammation-induced BDNF expression in the distal colon but not in the urinary bladder dorsal root ganglia was attenuated by prolonged pre- We compared the histology of the distal colon and the treatment with RTX urinary bladder before and after induction of colonic Our previous studies (37) showed that the BDNF mRNA inflammation. H&E staining (Figure 1A-D) showed that level was increased in the L1 and S1 DRG at 3 days of the distal colon had the appearance of severe inflamma- colitis. However BDNF protein level was only increased tory infiltration, edema, loss of the mucosal architecture, in the L1 DRG but
