Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


the distal colon had the appearance of severe inflamma- colitis. However BDNF protein level was only increased tory infiltration, edema, loss of the mucosal architecture, in the L1 DRG but not in the S1 DRG at this time high level of vascular density, and increases in the thick- point. Conversely, BDNF protein was increased in the ness of muscular wall and the width of the submucosal S1 spinal cord due to BDNF release from the S1 DRG spaces (compare Figure 1B to 1A). The histology of the (37). To examine the phenotype of BDNF immunoreac- urinary bladder appeared normal in terms of the struc- tive neurons in the DRG in order to validate a role of ture and folds of the urothelium, the size of the gap of BDNF in sensory plasticity, we performed double immu- the suburothelium space, and the thickness of the mus- nostaining of BDNF and the nociceptive marker TRPV1 cular wall (compare Figure 1D to 1C; Figure 1I shows in the L1 DRG at 3 days of colitis. Results showed that the relative damage scores of the colon and the urinary BDNF immunoreactivity was expressed in nociceptors bladder). To characterize the sensory profile in the distal identified by TRPV1 immunostaining (Figure 4C, yellow colon and the urinary bladder, we examined the expres- cells, white arrows). Virtually all BDNF was expressed in sion of the sensory marker TRPV1 in these organs with TRPV1 neurons; however, a subpopulation of TRPV1 immunoreactive neurons (Figure 4C, green cells, red we determined the level of BDNF in animals treated arrows) did not express BDNF. with vehicle (10% Tween-80, 10% ethanol, and normal To examine if the activation of TRPV1 primary affer- saline) + 50% EtOH (Figure 5A), vehicle + TNBS (Figure ents (presumably C-fibers) had a role in BDNF up-regu- 5B), RTX + EtOH (Figure 5C), or RTX + TNBS (Figure lation in sensory neurons during colonic inflammation, 5D). Animals were pre-treated with either vehicle or erocs egamad evitaleR lortnoC SBNT lortnoC SBNT A E Control Control I Colon Bladder colon colon B F TNBS TNBS * 2 # colon colon J C Control G Control * bladder bladder D TNBS H TNBS bladder bladder noitces noloc 2mm rep niats RI-1VPRT Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 Page5of14 * Control TNBS Figure1HistologicchangesandTRPV1immunoreactivityinthedistalcolonandtheurinarybladderduringcolonicinflammation. TNBStreatmentresultedininflammatoryresponseofthedistalcolon(A-B)andincreasedimmunoreactivityofTRPV1inthedistalcolon(E-F). Colonicinflammationwasnotaccompaniedbybladderinflammation(C-D),orchangesintheTRPV1immunoreactivityintheurinarybladder(G- H).Fourindependentexperimentsshowedconsistentresults.QuantificationoftheresultswereshowninIandJ.Bar=300μminA-D;Bar=50 μminE-H.*,p<0.05. Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 Page6of14 A muscle TNBS B muscle TNBS mucosa TRPV1 mucosa TRPV1 pre-absorption C D E TRPV1 PGP9.5 merge F
