Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


inflammation. When the animals were pretreated with primary afferent activity with prolonged pre-treatment intracolonic instillation of RTX one week prior to with RTX. Neutralization of BDNF in the DRG/spinal induction of colonic inflammation, the decreases in mic- cord with intrathecal infusion of a BDNF antibody turition intervals were reversed to normal level (Figure reverses bladder overactivity during colonic inflamma- 8C). The antagonism of RTX also reversed the reduction tion. These results suggest a role of primary afferent in the quantity of urine per voiding during colonic -mediated BDNF up-regulation in viscero-visceral cross- inflammation (Figure 8D). organ sensitization. BDNF is a member of the neurotrophin family of Discussion growth factors consisting of nerve growth factor (NGF), The present study demonstrates that colonic inflamma- neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and NT-4. It has long been tion increases the expression level of TRPV1 in the implied that BDNF plays a significant role in neuronal noitces/RI-FNDB Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 Page8of14 Figure5Prolongedpre-treatmentwithRTXblockedBDNFexpressioninL1DRGduringcolonicinflammation.Invehicle-treatedanimals, colonicinflammationincreasedthelevelofBDNFintheL1DRGat3dayspostTNBStreatment(A,B,E).FollowingprolongedRTXpre-treatment, thelevelofBDNFinL1DRGfromtheinflamedanimalswasattenuatedtoalmostnormallevel(D,E).Bar=40μm,*,p<0.05vs.control;#,p< 0.05vs.TNBS-treated.n=4animalsforeachexperimentalgroup. 0 200 400 600 800 1000 plasticity especially the long-term potentiation (LTP) of horn of the spinal cord via anterograde transport the central nervous system . Recent studies have . As demonstrated in the present study, BDNF also suggested a role of BDNF in modulating sensory in the DRG is mainly expressed in TRPV1 nociceptive activity in the peripheral nervous system. After periph- neurons. Blockade of primary afferents with the neuro- eral inflammation, BDNF is synthesized in the primary toxin RTX reverses the BDNF up-regulation in the DRG sensory neurons in DRG where it facilitates intracellular during colonic inflammation, suggesting that signaling signal transduction and gene expression at the dorsal arising from the inflamed distal colon facilitates BDNF g ,gnidioV 0 200 400 600 800 1000 Time (s) OHmc ,erusserp reddalB 0 200 400 600 800 1000 Ba Control Bb Time (S) g .gnidiov 0 200 400 600 800 1000 Time (s) O Hmc ,erusserp reddalB Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 Page9of14 Aa TNBS Time (s) Ab Figure6Cystometrogramsincontrolanimalsandanimalswithcolonicinflammation.Thebladderinter-micturitonintervals(AaandBa) andthequantityofsolutionvoided(AbandBb)wererecordedinunrestrainedconsciousanimals.Thedottedverticallinesalignthetime pointsforurination,thusthedistancebetweenthedottedlines(orthepeakofthemicturitionpressure)representstheinter-micturition intervals.Arrowsindicatethenon-voidingcontractions(increasesintheintravesiclepressure(Aa)butnovoidingcollected(Ab)correspondingto theseurges). A 100 * Control TNBS 3d B * expression in the sensory neurons in DRG. Studies by us . Analysis of cystometrograms reveals that the and others have demonstrated that colonic inflammation average inter-micturition intervals in control animals are increases the level of NGF and/or neural activity in the 220 seconds when we infuse the urinary bladder with a inflamed colon . NGF receptor TrkA is able to saline solution at a speed of 9 mL/h. This
