Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 JOURNAL OF
KEYWORDS: bdnf, bladder, colonic, inflammation, colon, drg, colonic inflammation, neurons, rtx, animals, figure, distal, tnbs, urinary, control


in the 220 seconds when we infuse the urinary bladder with a inflamed colon . NGF receptor TrkA is able to saline solution at a speed of 9 mL/h. This paradigm retrogradely transport from the inflamed colon to the results in, by calculation, an average of 0.55 mL infusing DRG , where it may activate intracellular signaling volume per micturition cycle, which is close to the molecules and regulate neuronal plasticity. The role of directly measured amount of solution voided (an average NGF/TrkA in regulating BDNF expression in the DRG of 0.537 g per micturition cycle). These results indicate has also been illustrated by previous studies showing that there was no leakage of solution into the abdomen that NGF treatment increases BDNF expression in the from the intravesicle catheter insertion site during saline TrkA/CGRP peptidergic DRG neurons and almost 90% infusion. During colonic inflammation, we have found of TrkA DRG neurons express BDNF . that the inter-micturition intervals are decreased and In addition to changes in the neurochemical coding of the quantity of urine voided is also decreased suggesting the sensory neurons during colonic inflammation, one bladder overactivity in these animals. The bladder over- of the major physiological alterations accompanying activity in colonic inflamed animals has also been con- colonic inflammation is the bladder hyperactivity firmed via a non-invasive procedure in which the urine lavretni noitirutcim reddalB )dnoces( Control TNBS 3d s0001/emiT )g( tnuoma gnidiov egarevA Xiaetal.JournalofNeuroinflammation2012,9:30 Page10of14 C 0.6 0.4 * 0.2 0.0 Control TNBS-3d Figure7Colonicinflammationincreasedtheactivityoftheurinarybladder.Colonicinflammationdecreasedthemicturitionintervals(A) andincreasedthemicturitionfrequency(B).Colonicinflammationalsodecreasedtheaverageamountofsolutionpervoiding(C).*,p<0.05vs. control.n=4animalsforeachtreatment. is collected naturally onto an underneath filter paper be due to the hyperactivity of the urinary bladder per se, directly from the unrestrained nonoperated animals or due to the abdominal contraction pressure transfer- (Additional file 1). Analysis of the urine spots on the fil- ence to the viscera in the inflamed animal. Further ter paper reveals that the animals excrete fewer times (i. examination of the activity of the abdominal wall will e., lower number of urine drops) with larger volumes identify the mechanisms. per drop (i.e., bigger urine spots) before induction of The mechanisms and pathways that mediate colon-to- colonic inflammation. TNBS-treated animals void more bladder cross-organ sensitization have been vigorously frequently (i.e., higher number of urine drops) with studied in the past years. A growing body of evidence smaller quantities of urine per voiding (i.e., smaller suggests that activation of the primary afferent pathway urine spots) (Additional file 1).
