NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hiv, testing, china, hiv testing, systems, care, manuscript, author, author manuscript, individuals, nih-pa author, nih-pa, cdc, sti, research


Author Manuscript Sex Transm Infect. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 April 16. Published in final edited form as: Sex Transm Infect. 2012 March ; 88(2): 116–119. doi:. HIV testing and care systems focused on sexually transmitted HIV in China Joseph D Tucker1,2, Frank Y Wong3, Eric J Nehl3, and Fujie Zhang4,5 Boston, Massachusetts, USA Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA 4National Centre for AIDS/STD Control and Prevention, Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China Abstract Background—Over three-quarters of new HIV infections in China during 2009 were estimated to be from sexual transmission. Over half of those living with HIV do not know their serostatus and identifying and treating individuals with sexually transmitted HIV infection has been challenging. Objective—This global assessment explores Chinese systems for detecting and treating those with HIV infection with a particular focus on groups at increased risk of sexually transmitted HIV. Methods—Published literature, grey sources and non-governmental reports were reviewed to describe HIV testing and care systems in China. Results—HIV testing and care in China involve several parallel health systems and have been largely successful in reaching large numbers of vulnerable individuals. Provider-initiated testing and counselling has been more effective than voluntary counselling and testing programmes for expanding HIV testing efforts in China. Individuals with sexually transmitted HIV infection are underrepresented in the antiretroviral care system compared with other high-risk groups. Conclusions—Comprehensive HIV testing and care bring together a number of Chinese health systems, but there are still gaps and challenges. Research and programmes focused on HIV testing and care for those with increased sexual risk are needed. Over the past few years sexual transmission has become the dominant mode of HIV transmission in China, accounting for an estimated 74.7% of all new HIV infections in 2009.1 Several molecular epidemiology studies have confirmed the expansion of sexually transmitted HIV infection in China.2–4 While HIV prevalence among the general population in China remains low and a generalised HIV epidemic is unlikely,5 ulcerative sexually Fruit Street, GRJ-504, Boston, MA, 02139 USA; . Competing interests None. Contributors JDT, FYW and FJZ conceived of the idea, JDT drafted the manuscript, FYW, EJN and FJZ commented on the draft, and all authors were actively involved in the revising of the manuscript and approval of the final version. Provenance and peer review Commissioned; externally peer reviewed. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript transmitted infections (STI) are known to
