NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hiv, testing, china, hiv testing, systems, care, manuscript, author, author manuscript, individuals, nih-pa author, nih-pa, cdc, sti, research


manuscript and approval of the final version. Provenance and peer review Commissioned; externally peer reviewed. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript transmitted infections (STI) are known to increase the likelihood of HIV acquisition and transmission.67 In particular, the increase in primary and secondary syphilis cases observed in many regions of China89 may portend the expansion of sexually transmitted HIV in the same regions.10 leveraged considerable resources for HIV testing and care systems.5 HIV testing and treatment are key components of a comprehensive HIV response,12 because these two components, respectively, identify infected individuals and initiate antiretroviral therapy (ART) that has substantial clinical and public health benefit.13 The establishment of appropriate HIV testing and care systems in the Chinese context has important implications both because it is home to one-fifth of the world’s population and because models developed there may be applied in other low and middle-income nation settings. This article provides a descriptive overview of the HIV testing and care programmes in China, focusing on individuals at increased risk of sexually transmitted HIV infection. While HIV prevention is a critical component of successful control systems, there has been a recent review of HIV prevention among those at increased risk of sexually transmitted HIV,14 so this will not be included in this assessment. METHODS This global assessment focused on HIV testing and care systems that serve individuals at increased sexual risk. A combination of published research, grey literature, surveillance documents and official policies were examined. We searched PubMed, Medline, Ovid and Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) databases using the keywords ‘health were organised into three main categories that provide the organisation for the subsequent assessment: (1) overview of the HIV/STI systems in China; (2) HIV testing systems; (3) HIV care systems. HIV/STI systems in China The China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) orchestrates HIV testing, care and control strategies for the nation.15 This focal organisation has close horizontal connections to medical, academic, scientific and related structures in China as well as vertical connections to the Ministry of Health above and provincial and other local CDC below. Each province, special autonomous region and province-level city in China has a corresponding CDC that reports upwards to the national CDC while overseeing local CDC activities, notifiable disease reporting and related HIV activities. While the CDC system has close connections to medical centres at all levels, the CDC system is primarily
