NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hiv, testing, china, hiv testing, systems, care, manuscript, author, author manuscript, individuals, nih-pa author, nih-pa, cdc, sti, research


while overseeing local CDC activities, notifiable disease reporting and related HIV activities. While the CDC system has close connections to medical centres at all levels, the CDC system is primarily focused on public health. Medical settings primarily responsible for systems in China. It is also important to note that while HIV and STI care have many common themes, the Chinese system has mostly (although not entirely) separate systems for complaints in China often seek treatment at a range of local clinics, including public STI clinics, private STI clinics, gynaecological clinics and other clinics.16 Generally, the national HIV testing and care systems have focused on public clinics where there are typically better laboratories, more trained personnel and greater implementation capacity.16 Health systems research suggests that a substantial minority of individuals with sexual health problems initially seek care at private clinics in China.17–19 Sex Transm Infect. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 April 16. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript HIV/STI systems in China show a large degree of geographical heterogeneity. Some provinces in China have integrated STI control programmes at the local CDC, while other provinces have independent STI control centres that collaborate with local CDC. In addition, there is further heterogeneity in systems at the local and regional levels. Some local STI clinics have very strong collaborative relationships with local CDC while others are more independent. HIV testing systems Expanding HIV testing is a key priority in China because approximately 70% of those with HIV infection do not know their serostatus.20 HIV testing systems have evolved over time in China, moving through several stages and incorporating elements of three distinct testing paradigms: voluntary counselling and testing (VCT); high-risk group testing and provider- initiated testing and counselling (PITC). While some individual research studies have tested general populations in China, routine HIV testing of all adults has not been a primary goal. Each of these three HIV testing schemes—VCT, high-risk group testing and PITC—has theoretical underpinnings. HIV VCT testing systems represented some of the first systematic efforts to promote HIV testing in China. Typically, VCT sites are stand-alone clinics or separate rooms within a form. Individuals are offered pre-test counselling from a trained counsellor, have blood drawn for an HIV enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test, and then receive post-testing counselling in tandem with their test results.21 Individuals with a positive HIV enzyme- linked immunosorbent assay test are then referred to
