NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hiv, testing, china, hiv testing, systems, care, manuscript, author, author manuscript, individuals, nih-pa author, nih-pa, cdc, sti, research


HIV enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test, and then receive post-testing counselling in tandem with their test results.21 Individuals with a positive HIV enzyme- linked immunosorbent assay test are then referred to the nearby CDC for a confirmatory western blot test, but HIV VCT sites have been slow to recruit individuals2223 and several studies of men who have sex with men (MSM),24 female sex workers (FSW)25–27 and migrants2829 have noted infrequent attendance and poor HIV test uptake at VCT sites. Recognising the persistence of undiagnosed HIV-infected individuals following HIV VCT testing, the focus in China shifted to high-risk group testing in the early 2000s. The approach focuses on opt-out testing of individuals with greater HIV risk.30 These include sex workers, intravenous drug users, MSM, and those detained for selling sex or using drugs.15 The largest campaigns of high-risk group HIV testing in China were undertaken in 2004 and 2005 as part of interdisciplinary efforts to expand HIV testing.30 In contrast to VCT systems that required a high-risk individual to reach a VCT site and opt in for testing, high-risk group testing has largely been accomplished through opt-out testing in a number of settings, ranging from detention centres to STI clinics. In terms of optimising the capture of sexually transmitted HIV cases, several of the major HIV risk groups would still be difficult to reach using this type of system, namely MSM, FSW and clients. Subsequent research has confirmed that many MSM in China receive infrequent HIV testing.3132 PITC HIV testing has emerged as a new paradigm for expanding HIV testing in China. China issued draft PITC guidelines and launched several pilots focused on the integration of HIV testing with other routine medical care. Successful integration of HIV testing has Operational research at public STI clinics in south China suggests that the laboratory capacity, human resources and related foundation for more widespread PITC testing are already largely in place.16 As PITC HIV testing relies more heavily on providers to offer testing and clinics to support the policy, more research about provider attitudes, behaviours and practices is essential for scaling up HIV testing in this fashion. From a systems perspective, PITC would appear the most decentralised, offering testing to a large swath of individuals within many clinical settings. Sex Transm Infect. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 April 16. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript The PITC HIV testing approach combined
