NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hiv, testing, china, hiv testing, systems, care, manuscript, author, author manuscript, individuals, nih-pa author, nih-pa, cdc, sti, research


within many clinical settings. Sex Transm Infect. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 April 16. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript The PITC HIV testing approach combined with quantitative CDC targets36 holds great promise for expanding HIV testing among those with increased sexually transmitted HIV risk in China. The next generation of CDC HIV testing targets prioritises not only testing individuals, but case detection of HIV-infected individuals. HIV treatment systems In addition to HIV testing systems, China has a comprehensive HIV treatment system. Free HIV care in China has been supported by the nationwide Four Frees and One Care policy since 2003.37 Up to early 2011, a total of 106 613 adults received free ART through this programme. The programme includes free testing, ART and school fees for HIV-infected individuals’ children to all those who cannot afford ART. Rural-to-urban migrants, foreigners and others who seek HIV care away from their official residence in China have greater challenges to accessing this system. The CDC system has made great strides in expanding ART systems for those at risk in China.3839 The integration of HIV care with rural township health systems in a number of provinces has expanded access to the Four Frees programme.39 Yet while the HIV treatment system is nationwide in scope, an estimated 38.3% of those eligible for ART who acquired HIV from sexual transmission do not receive ART through the national programme.40 This gap may be due to stigma associated with receiving HIV treatment,37 high mobility and movement among HIV-infected individuals20 and lack of trust among vulnerable groups. Like many other parts of the world, retaining HIV-infected individuals in care can be especially difficult among marginalised groups.36 In order to increase retention in HIV care, the China CDC has been working in close collaboration with non-governmental organisations (NGO), especially groups advocating for MSM. NGO and related civil society organisations have played an essential role in organising HIV programmes in other parts of the world.4142 While NGO in China are still evolving,43 there has been a notable trend in the past few years towards greater functionality and responsibility for HIV support services.44 Unregistered NGO and informal grassroots groups provide valuable counselling, support and related psychosocial services for HIV- infected individuals in China.44 A growing global evidence base shows how NGO can play fundamental roles in enhancing sexual health services for high-risk individuals.45–47 STRENGTHENING HIV SYSTEMS This review
