NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: hiv, testing, china, hiv testing, systems, care, manuscript, author, author manuscript, individuals, nih-pa author, nih-pa, cdc, sti, research


HIV- infected individuals in China.44 A growing global evidence base shows how NGO can play fundamental roles in enhancing sexual health services for high-risk individuals.45–47 STRENGTHENING HIV SYSTEMS This review identified three mechanisms whereby HIV systems could be strengthened to expand HIV testing and care of individuals at increased sexual risk. First, further expanding programmes linking HIV and STI systems is essential. This includes the integration of HIV/ STI programmes at several locations: at clinics focused on HIV testing/treatment and those focused on STI testing/treatment; at community-based sexual health outreach programmes; intersect with sexual health provision. Integration of HIV/STI programmes may help to decrease the stigma associated with HIV testing and care,34 and ensure the sustainability of programmes that have been implemented among MSM in China to FSW and clients are important priorities for responsive sexually transmitted HIV systems. Existing services (including improving linkage to care to conform to national guidelines), new social services exposure prophylaxis) could be embedded at NGO and related sites in China. Third, designing effective HIV systems demands a broad concept of sexual health that reaches beyond individual diseases to the syndemics (syphilis, hepatitis viruses, etc.), which disproportionately affect those at higher sexual risk. Sex Transm Infect. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2013 April 16. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript CONCLUSION China’s nationwide systems for testing and treating those with HIV infection may be an instructive model for many low and middle-income states. As sexual transmission has become the dominant HIV transmission route over the past few years, HIV testing and treatment systems have evolved to address these new priorities. Designing high quality challenging but critically important health services issues. Further operational research and expansion of pilot programmes to larger scales are needed in order to confront sexually transmitted HIV infection in China. More specifically, comparative effectiveness research for integration. Decision analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis have been widely used in other HIV systems contexts, and hold great promise for informing policy decisions about expanding HIV testing and care.48–52 The existing platform of HIV services and strong commitment to high quality HIV care in China reveal momentum that can be used to improve HIV systems further. Acknowledgments Funding Financial support for this research came from an NIH Fogarty K01 award (US NIH 1K01TW008200-01A1), the UNC Fogarty AIDS International Research and Training Program (NIH FIC D43 TW01039), the UNC Social Science Research on HIV/AIDS
