Endovascular stent-grafting of popliteal aneurysms
KEYWORDS: patients, endovascular, procedure, repair, aneurysms, reported, series, case series, case, series patients, patency, open, open repair, popliteal, patient


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on endovascular stent-grafting of popliteal aneurysms is limited in quantity but shows no major safety concerns. Evidence on efficacy is inadequate because it is limited to the short-term. Therefore, this procedure should only be used with special arrangements for clinical governance, consent and audit or research. 1.2 Clinicians wishing to undertake endovascular stent-grafting of popliteal aneurysms should take the following actions • Inform the clinical governance leads in their Trusts. • Ensure that patients and their carers understand the uncertainty about the procedure's long-term efficacy and provide them with clear written information. In addition, the use of NICE's information for the public is recommended. • Audit and review clinical outcomes of all patients having endovascular stent- grafting of popliteal aneurysms (see section 3.1). 1.3 Patient selection for this procedure should be carried out by a multidisciplinary team which should include a vascular surgeon and an interventional radiologist with specific training and experience in the technique. 1.4 NICE encourages further research into endovascular stent-grafting of popliteal aneurysms and may review this procedure on publication of further evidence. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications and current treatments 2.1.1 Popliteal artery aneurysms are the most common peripheral aneurysms. They can cause leg ischaemia by embolism or thrombosis and may rupture. Current treatment is usually by open surgical bypass grafting. Postoperative antiplatelet therapy is generally given. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Endovascular repair stent-grafting of popliteal aneurysms is carried out with the patient under local or general anaesthesia. Under fluoroscopic guidance, a stent- graft device is inserted into the femoral artery using standard catheter and guidewire techniques. Care is taken to ensure adequate length of anchoring stent in the normal vessel, both proximally and distally, to bridge the popliteal aneurysm and fully exclude the aneurysm from the circulation. 2.2.2 A range of different stents are available for this procedure. 2.3 Efficacy Sections 2.3 and 2.4 describe efficacy and safety outcomes from the published literature that the Committee considered as part of the evidence about this procedure. For more detailed information on the evidence, see the overview. 2.3.1 A meta-analysis of 320 patients treated by endovascular repair reported primary and secondary patency rates at 1 year of 83% (95% confidence interval [CI] 79% to 88%) and 86% (95% CI 82% to 91%) respectively. In the same meta-analysis, comparative data were available for 159 patients: the primary patency rate at 1
