Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


ABSTRACT Genetic factors play a major role in the regulation of body weight and in the susceptibility to obesity in the population. A subset of people with severe obesity carry rare, highly penetrant genetic variants that can result in severe childhood-onset obesity. Current estimates suggest that up to 20% of children with severe obesity may carry pathogenic chromosomal abnormalities or mutations. The diagnosis of a genetic obesity syndrome can provide information that has value for the patient and their family and may help them deal with the social stigma that comes with severe obesity in childhood. In an increasing number of cases, the finding of a genetic cause for a patient’s obesity can inform clinical care and the use of targeted therapies. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION At a population level, obesity is driven by an increase in the intake of easily available, energy-dense, highly palatable foods and a decrease in physical activity at school/work and in leisure time. However, variation in body mass index (BMI: weight in kg/height in meters squared) within the population is influenced by genetic factors ( 1 , 2 ). Studies in twins and families have shown that food intake, satiety responsiveness (fullness after a fixed meal), basal metabolic rate, the amount of energy utilized during a fixed amount of exercise, and body fat distribution are all heritable traits ( 3 ). Genome-wide association studies (GWAS’s) in large population-based cohorts have identified thousands of common variants (minor allele frequency > 5%) that are associated with BMI and/or obesity ( 4 ). While individually each variant often has a small effect on BMI, cumulatively, the effect of millions of common and rare variants can now be combined to compute a polygenic risk score which can predict the development of severe obesity ( 5 ). Studies are ongoing to test how such scores might be useful in the clinical setting. Most common obesity associated variants lie in noncoding areas of the genome so identifying the mechanism by which they affect body weight can be challenging. It is interesting to note that most obesity- or BMI-associated variants lie in or near genes which are expressed in the brain and some of these variants have been associated with increased food intake ( 4 , 6 ). In contrast, GWAS associations for body fat distribution/waist-to-hip ratio, mostly
