Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


in the brain and some of these variants have been associated with increased food intake ( 4 , 6 ). In contrast, GWAS associations for body fat distribution/waist-to-hip ratio, mostly seem to be linked to genes expressed in adipose tissue ( 7 ). CLINICAL APPROACH TO DIAGNOSIS OF GENETIC OBESITY SYNDROMES Rare (less than 1% minor allele frequency), highly penetrant genetic variants in multiple genes have been associated with severe obesity that often presents in childhood. Whilst these disorders are rare, cumulatively up to 20% of children with severe obesity have chromosomal abnormalities or other penetrant rare variants that drive their obesity ( 8 ). The assessment of children and adults with severe obesity should be directed at screening for endocrine, neurological, and genetic disorders ( 9 ). Important information can be obtained from a detailed family history to identify potential consanguineous relationships, the presence of other family members with severe obesity and those who have had bariatric surgery, and the ethnic origin of family members ( Figure 1 ). The clinical history and examination can then guide the appropriate use of diagnostic tests. For the purposes of clinical assessment, it remains useful to categorize the genetic obesity syndromes as those with and without associated developmental delay. Figure 1. Diagnosis of genetic obesity syndromes. OBESITY SYNDROMES WITHOUT DEVELOPMENTAL DELAY The adipocyte-derived hormone leptin acts mainly to defend against starvation ( 10 ), with a fall in leptin levels (as seen in weight loss, acute caloric restriction or congenital leptin deficiency) causing an increase in food intake and physiological responses that act to restore energy balance ( 11 ). In most people, circulating leptin levels correlate closely with fat mass ( 12 ), although there is considerable variation in leptin levels at any given BMI, which is as yet unexplained. Leptin signals through the long isoform of the leptin receptor, which is widely expressed in the hypothalamus and other brain regions involved in energy homeostasis ( 13 ). In the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (which has a permeable blood-brain barrier), there are several neuronal populations known to be important in weight regulation expressing the leptin receptor. In the fed state, leptin stimulates the expression of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), which is processed to generate the melanocortin peptides that, in turn, activate the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) on second-order neurons in the paraventricular nucleus. Leptin also inhibits adjacent neurons containing Agouti-related protein (AgRP),
