Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


to generate the melanocortin peptides that, in turn, activate the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) on second-order neurons in the paraventricular nucleus. Leptin also inhibits adjacent neurons containing Agouti-related protein (AgRP), a MC4R antagonist. The integration of these two actions leads to reduced food intake ( Figure 2 ). In the fasted state and with weight loss, a drop in leptin levels reduces the activation state of POMC neurons and increases AgRP signaling to cause an increase in food intake. These hypothalamic pathways interact with other brain centers to affect not just eating behaviors but also energy expenditure. Severe obesity can result from mutations that disrupt key components of the leptin-melanocortin pathway ( Figure 2 ). People with these genetic disorders experience an intense drive to eat (hunger), find food to be highly rewarding, and have impaired fullness (satiety) leading to hyperphagia (increased food intake), resulting in excessive weight gain from early childhood. Figure 2. Genes involved in the leptin-melanocortin pathway whose disruption causes obesity. Leptin and Leptin Receptor Deficiency Congenital leptin (LEP protein; LEP gene) and leptin receptor (LEPR protein; LEPR gene) deficiency are rare, autosomal recessive disorders associated with severe obesity from a very young age (before 1 year) ( 14 , 15 ). Homozygous frameshift, nonsense, and missense mutations involving LEP and LEPR have been identified in 1% and 2-3% of patients with severe obesity from consanguineous families, respectively ( 16-18 ). Leptin receptor mutations have been found in some non-consanguineous families, where both parents were unrelated but carried rare heterozygous variants. Serum leptin is a useful test in patients with severe early onset obesity as an undetectable serum leptin suggests a diagnosis of congenital leptin deficiency. Very rare mutations that result in a detectable but bio-inactive form of leptin or a form of leptin that antagonizes the leptin receptor, have also been described ( 19 , 20 ). Serum leptin concentrations are appropriate for the degree of obesity in leptin receptor deficiency and as such an elevated serum leptin concentration is not necessarily a predictor of leptin receptor deficiency ( 17 ). In some patients, particular LEPR mutations that result in abnormal cleavage of the extracellular domain of LEPR (which then acts as a leptin binding protein), are associated with markedly elevated leptin levels ( 15 ). The clinical phenotypes associated with leptin and leptin receptor deficiencies are similar. Patients are born of normal birth weight, experience
