Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


are associated with markedly elevated leptin levels ( 15 ). The clinical phenotypes associated with leptin and leptin receptor deficiencies are similar. Patients are born of normal birth weight, experience intense hyperphagia with food seeking behavior and rapid weight gain in the first few months of life resulting in severe obesity ( 16 ). While measurable changes in resting metabolic rate or total energy expenditure have not been demonstrated in affected individuals, reduced sympathetic nerve function is associated with impaired fat oxidation and may contribute to obesity ( 21 ). Children with leptin deficiency have abnormalities of T cell number and function ( 16 ), consistent with reported high childhood infection rates and childhood mortality from infection, particularly in environments where infectious diseases are prevalent ( 21 ). In keeping with severe obesity, patients with leptin and leptin receptor deficiency are hyperinsulinemic and some adults develop type 2 diabetes in the 3 rd to 4 th decade. Affected individuals can exhibit hypothalamic (secondary) hypothyroidism characterized by low free thyroxine levels and inappropriately normal (or high-normal) levels of serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) ( 14 , 15 ). Typically, adults with leptin or leptin receptor deficiency have biochemical evidence of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and do not undergo normal pubertal development (see below). However, there are reports of delayed spontaneous onset of menses in some leptin and leptin receptor deficient adults ( 17 ). Linear growth is appropriate in childhood, but in the absence of a pubertal growth spurt, final height is reduced. Although leptin deficiency is very rare, it is entirely treatable with daily subcutaneous injections of recombinant human leptin ( 16 , 22 ). The major effect of leptin replacement in these patients is on food intake, with normalization of hyperphagia and enhanced satiety. Leptin administration does not enhance energy expenditure. However, weight loss by caloric restriction is associated with decreased total energy expenditure; the absence of this decrease in patients with congenital leptin deficiency, suggests that leptin does affect energy expenditure ( 23 ). Leptin replacement permits progression of appropriately-timed pubertal development, along with expression of secondary sexual characteristics ( 21 ). These reproductive system effects are likely mediated through leptin action on hypothalamic neurons containing kisspeptin, which signals via GPR54 to modify the release of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone ( 24 ). Although leptin treatment is not be effective for patients with LEPR deficiency, these patients can now treated with a
