Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


GPR54 to modify the release of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone ( 24 ). Although leptin treatment is not be effective for patients with LEPR deficiency, these patients can now treated with a melanocortin receptor agonist (setmelanotide, Figure 3 ), which is now licensed in the UK, Europe and USA ( 25 ). Leptin treatment is not clinically effective in people with common obesity ( 26 , 27 ), which may be a manifestation of leptin resistance or defects in downstream neuronal pathways. Studies in heterozygous carriers of LEP mutations who have partial leptin deficiency and an increase in fat mass ( 28 ), suggest that people with relatively low leptin levels may benefit from leptin therapy. Pro-opiomelanocortin Deficiency Due to impaired production of melanocortin stimulating hormone peptides (a/b MSH) and diminished or absent MC4R signaling ( Figure 2 ), homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in POMC cause hyperphagia and early-onset obesity ( 29 ). People deficient in POMC also have pale skin and red or light colored hair due to the lack of signaling of pigment-inducing melanocortin 1 receptors in the skin ( 29 ). In the pituitary gland, POMC is the precursor for adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH). As such, complete POMC deficiency presents in neonatal life with features of ACTH and cortisol deficiency: hypoglycemia and cholestatic jaundice requiring long-term corticosteroid replacement therapy ( 30 ). Typically, patients with primary or secondary cortisol deficiency present with hypophagia and weight loss, so adrenal insufficiency with hyperphagia in the absence of a structural hypothalamic abnormality should raise suspicion for a POMC defect. POMC deficiency may also impair the timing of puberty, an effect that appears to be mediated by the melanocortin 3 receptor (MC3R) ( 31 ). Complete POMC deficiency can be treated with a melanocortin receptor agonist (setmelanotide) ( 32 ) ( Figure 3 ). Heterozygous missense mutations directly affecting the function of POMC peptides have been described ( Figure 2 ) ( 33 ). These variants significantly increase obesity risk but are not invariably associated with obesity. The potential efficacy of MC4R agonists in patients with these heterozygous mutations is currently being tested in clinical trials. Figure 3. Medical treatment of patients with genetic obesity syndromes. POMC: pro-opiomelanocortin. PCSK1: prohormone convertase-1. MC4R: melanocortin 4 receptor. GLP-1: glucagon receptor-1. Prohormone Convertase-1-Deficiency Prohormone convertase-1 (PCSK1, also known as PC1/3) is an enzyme that acts upon a range of substrates including proinsulin, proglucagon, and POMC. Compound heterozygous
