Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


receptor. GLP-1: glucagon receptor-1. Prohormone Convertase-1-Deficiency Prohormone convertase-1 (PCSK1, also known as PC1/3) is an enzyme that acts upon a range of substrates including proinsulin, proglucagon, and POMC. Compound heterozygous or homozygous mutations in PCSK1 cause neonatal small bowel enteropathy, glucocorticoid deficiency (secondary to ACTH deficiency), hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, and postprandial hypoglycemia due to impaired processing of proinsulin to insulin, as well as severe, early onset obesity ( 34 , 35 ). Elevated plasma levels of proinsulin and 32/33 split proinsulin in the context of low levels of mature insulin are diagnostic for this disorder. Setmelanotide is now licensed for the treatment of this condition ( Figure 3 ). Melanocortin 4 Receptor Deficiency Heterozygous melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) mutations have been reported in people with obesity from various ethnic groups ( www.mc4r.org.uk ) and occur at a frequency of 1 in 300 people in the population ( 36 ), 1% of adults with a BMI > 30 kg/m 2 , and 3-5% of children with severe obesity ( 37 , 38 ). MC4R mutations are inherited in a co-dominant manner, with variable penetrance and expression; homozygous mutations have also been reported. In several studies, MC4R deficiency is the most common genetic form of obesity ( 37-39 ). Given the importance of MC4R for leptin signaling ( Figure 2 ), the clinical features of MC4R deficiency include hyperphagia and rapid weight gain, which often emerges in the first few years of life. Alongside the increase in fat mass, MC4R-deficient subjects also have an increase in lean mass and a marked increase in bone mineral density that exceeds what would be expected for their increased body size and, thus, they often appear “big-boned” ( 37 ). They exhibit accelerated linear growth in early childhood, which may be a consequence of disproportionate early hyperinsulinemia and effects on pulsatile growth hormone (GH) secretion, which is retained in MC4R-deficient adults in contrast to common forms of obesity ( 40 ). Despite this early hyperinsulinemia, adult subjects with obesity who are heterozygous for mutations in the MC4R gene have a comparable risk of developing impaired glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes to controls of similar age and adiposity. Reduced sympathetic nervous system activity in MC4R-deficient patients is likely to explain the lower prevalence of hypertension and lower systolic and diastolic blood pressures compared to control populations ( 41 ). Thus, central melanocortin signaling appears to play an
