Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


likely to explain the lower prevalence of hypertension and lower systolic and diastolic blood pressures compared to control populations ( 41 ). Thus, central melanocortin signaling appears to play an important role in the regulation of blood pressure and its coupling to changes in weight. At present, there is no specific therapy for MC4R deficiency, but patients with heterozygous MC4R mutations do respond to Glucagon-like peptide- (GLP-1) receptor agonists ( 42 ) and to Roux-en-Y-bypass surgery ( 43 ) ( Figure 3 ), with a variation in weight loss response that is comparable to people with a normal MC4R gene sequence. Albright’s Hereditary Osteodystrophy/Pseudohypoparathyroidism Albright hereditary osteodystrophy (AHO) is an autosomal dominant disorder due to germline mutations in GNAS , an imprinted gene that encodes the G alpha s (Gs) protein, which mediates signaling by multiple G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Classically, heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in GNAS affecting the maternal allele lead to short stature, obesity, skeletal defects, and resistance to several hormones that activate Gs in their target tissues (pseudohypoparathyroidism type IA), while paternal transmission leads only to the AHO phenotype (pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism) ( 44 ). GNAS mutations affect coupling to, or signaling by, MC4R, which explains hyperphagia and obesity in affected patients ( 45 ). Some patients will carry mutations that affect signaling by other GPCRs including the beta-2 and beta-3 adrenoreceptors which contribute to low basal metabolic rate and other clinical phenotypes ( 45 ). These patients may not have classical features such as short stature. As such, this diagnosis should be considered in all patients with severe early-onset obesity ( 45 ). SRC Homology 2B (SH2B1) 1 Deficiency Deletion of a 220-kb segment of chromosome 16p11.2 is associated with highly penetrant, severe, early-onset obesity and insulin resistance ( 46 ). This deletion includes a small number of genes, one of which is SH2B1 (Src homology 2B1) known to be involved in leptin, insulin, and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) signaling. These patients gain weight in the first years of life, with hyperphagia and fasting plasma insulin levels that are disproportionately elevated, with increased risk for type 2 diabetes in early adulthood ( 47 ). In some patients loss of function mutations in the SH2B1 gene have also been reported in association with early-onset obesity, severe insulin resistance, and behavioral abnormalities ( 48 ). OBESITY SYNDROMES WITH DEVELOPMENTAL DELAY Prader-Willi Syndrome Prader-Willi syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by
