Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


in association with early-onset obesity, severe insulin resistance, and behavioral abnormalities ( 48 ). OBESITY SYNDROMES WITH DEVELOPMENTAL DELAY Prader-Willi Syndrome Prader-Willi syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion or disruption of a paternally imprinted region on chromosome 15q11.2-q12 ( 49 ). The clinical features of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) include diminished fetal activity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties in infancy followed by hyperphagia, obesity, developmental delay, short stature, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, and small hands and feet ( Figure 4 ). Children with PWS display diminished growth, reduced lean body mass and increased fat mass. These body composition abnormalities can be explained, in part, by growth hormone (GH) deficiency and improved with growth hormone treatment, which should be started in early childhood. Figure 4. Infancy and childhood clinical features of Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS). Contained within the 4.5Mb PWS region in 15q11-q13 are silenced paternally imprinted genes and a family of small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) known as the HBII-85 snoRNAs. Small deletions exclusively encompassing these snoRNAs result in the key features of PWS including obesity ( Figure 4 ) ( 50 , 51 ), suggesting that these snoRNAs play a critical role in the development of this syndrome. Histopathological studies on post-mortem brain samples from PWS patients have demonstrated reduced levels of oxytocin expression in the hypothalamus ( 52 ) and trials of intranasal administration in PWS are ongoing ( 53 ). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression is also reduced in PWS, potentially contributing to both the obesity and neurobehavioral features including stereotyped behaviors ( 54 ). Bardet Biedl Syndrome Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare, autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in over 25 genes and characterized by obesity, developmental delay, syndactyly, brachydactyly or polydactyly, retinal dystrophy or pigmentary retinopathy, hypogonadism, and structural abnormalities of the kidney or renal impairment ( 55 ). The differential diagnosis includes Biemond syndrome II (iris coloboma, hypogenitalism, obesity, polydactyly) and Alstrom syndrome (retinitis pigmentosa, obesity, diabetes mellitus, and deafness). To date, BBS proteins are all involved in basal body and centrosomal function and impact on ciliary development and transport ( 56 ). There is some evidence that BBS genes affect leptin signaling and trafficking of MC4Rs in cilia. Clinical trials of setmelanotide have shown some benefit in treating hyperphagia in these patients ( 57 ) and this drug is licensed for BBS in some countries ( Figure 3 ). Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor and Tropomycin-Related Kinase
