Genetic Obesity Syndromes
KEYWORDS: obesity, leptin, pubmed, deficiency, receptor, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, pmc free, free article, farooqi, mutations, associated, severe


benefit in treating hyperphagia in these patients ( 57 ) and this drug is licensed for BBS in some countries ( Figure 3 ). Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor and Tropomycin-Related Kinase B Brain-Derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) activates signaling by the tropomycin-related kinase B (TrkB) to play a key role in the development and maintenance of neurons. Rare chromosomal rearrangements and heterozygous point mutations in BDNF and TrkB are associated with speech and language delay, hyperphagia, and impaired pain sensation ( 58-60 ). Disordered behaviors including hyperactivity, fearlessness, anxiety, and aggression are also features of these conditions, which can often present as de-novo genetic abnormalities ( 61 ). Single Minded 1 Deficiency Single minded 1 (SIM1) is a transcription factor involved in the development of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus. Chromosomal rearrangements and heterozygous missense mutations in SIM1 and in a closely related transcription factor OTP (Orthopedia) cause severe obesity ( 62-64 ). Clinical features of these patients resemble those seen in MC4R deficiency with, in addition, a variable phenotype of developmental delay with autistic like features noted in some, but not all, patients ( 63 ). Other Rare Genetic Mutations Rare penetrant variants in multiple genes can be associated with, but do not invariably cause, obesity that is inherited in a classical Mendelian manner ( Figure 2 ). Examples include heterozygous loss of function variants affecting the Semaphorin 3 ligands, receptors and co-receptors that direct the development of POMC projections ( 65 ); mutations in Steroid receptor coactivator-1 ( SRC-1 ) ( 66 ) and Pleckstrin-homology-domain interacting protein, PHIP , which modulate POMC transcription ( 67 ); disruption of Serotonin 2c receptor, HTR2C which regulates the electrical activity of POMC neurons causing obesity, social anxiety and impaired memory ( 68 , 69 ) and deletions affecting TRPC5 on the X chromosome, which cause obesity, anxiety, autism (in males), and postnatal depression (in females) ( 70 ). Variants in genes that regulate MC4R trafficking (MRAP2 ) ( 71 ) and genes whose precise function in the hypothalamus is not as yet clear, such as Kinase Suppressor of Ras-2 ( KSR2 ) ( 72 ) have also been associated with obesity. FUTURE PERSPECTIVES The diagnosis of a genetic obesity syndrome can provide information that has diagnostic value for the family to whom genetic counselling can be provided. A genetic diagnosis can help children and their families deal with the social
