UUllcceerraattiivvee ccoolliittiiss:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative colitis, ulcerative, people, oral, topical, treatment, remission, aminosalicylates, evidence, aminosalicylate, management, guideline, information, disease


of mild, moderate and severe are used to describe ulcerative colitis: In adults these categories are based on the Truelove and Witts' severity index (see table 1). This table is adapted from the Truelove and Witts' criteria. In children and young people these categories are based on the Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI; see table 2). TTaabbllee 11 TTrruueelloovvee aanndd WWiittttss'' sseevveerriittyy iinnddeexx – MMiilldd MMooddeerraattee SSeevveerree Bowel movements Fewer than 4 4–6 6 or more plus at least 1 of the (number per day) features of systemic upset (marked with * below) Blood in stools No more than Between Visible blood small amounts of mild and blood severe Pyrexia No No Yes (temperature greater than 37.8°C) * Pulse rate greater No No Yes than 90bpm * Anaemia * No No Yes Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) Erythrocyte 30 or below 30 or Above 30 sedimentation rate below (mm/hour) * TTaabbllee 22 PPaaeeddiiaattrriicc UUllcceerraattiivvee CCoolliittiiss AAccttiivviittyy IInnddeexx ((PPUUCCAAII)) Disease severity is defined by the following scores: severe: 65 or above moderate: 35–64 mild: 10–34 remission (disease not active): below 10. IItteemm PPooiinnttss 1. Abdominal pain No pain 0 Pain can be ignored 5 Pain cannot be ignored 10 2. Rectal bleeding None 0 Small amount only, in less than 50% of stools 10 Small amount with most stools 20 Large amount (50% of the stool content) 30 3. Stool consistency of most stools Formed 0 Partially formed 5 Completely unformed 10 4. Number of stools per 24 hours Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) 0–2 0 3–5 5 6–8 10 >8 15 5. Nocturnal stools (any episode causing wakening) No 0 Yes 10 6. Activity level No limitation of activity 0 Occasional limitation of activity 5 Severe restricted activity 10 Sum of PUCAI (0–85) TTiimmee--lliimmiitteedd ccoouurrssee ooff oorraall ccoorrttiiccoosstteerrooiiddss A course of corticosteroids used to treat active disease, normally given for 4 to 8weeks (depending on the steroid). At the time of publication , some topical aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant
