UUllcceerraattiivvee ccoolliittiiss:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative colitis, ulcerative, people, oral, topical, treatment, remission, aminosalicylates, evidence, aminosalicylate, management, guideline, information, disease


information. At the time of publication , some oral aminosalicylates did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication in children and young people. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. At the time of publication , beclometasone dipropionate only has a UK marketing authorisation 'as add-on therapy to 5-ASA containing drugs in patients who are non-responders to Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) 5-ASA therapy in active phase'. Additionally, budesonide (oral or rectal) and prednisolone foam are not licensed in children. For use outside these licensed indications, the prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. At the time of publication , ciclosporin did not have a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. Dosing requirements for children should be calculated by body weight, as described in the BNF. brands of azathioprine and mercaptopurine had a UK marketing authorisation for this indication. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council's Prescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. At the time of publication , not all oral aminosalicylates had a UK marketing authorisation for once-daily dosing. The prescriber should follow relevant professional guidance, taking full responsibility for the decision. Informed consent should be obtained and documented. See the General Medical Council'sPrescribing guidance: prescribing unlicensed medicinesfor further information. Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) RReeccoommmmeennddaattiioonnss ffoorr rreesseeaarrcchh The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. As part of the 2019 update, the guideline committee made an additional 3 research recommendations on inducing remission in mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis. Key recommendations for research 11 TThhee eeffffeeccttiivveenneessss ooff iimmmmuunnoommoodduullaattoorrss iinn iinndduucciinngg rreemmiissssiioonn iinn pprrooccttiittiiss In a mild-to-moderate first presentation or inflammatory exacerbation of proctitis that is resistant to standard treatment, what is the effectiveness of topical immunomodulators, such as tacrolimus, in achieving clinical remission and what is the most effective formulation (suppository/ointment)? To find out why the committee made the research recommendation
