UUllcceerraattiivvee ccoolliittiiss:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative colitis, ulcerative, people, oral, topical, treatment, remission, aminosalicylates, evidence, aminosalicylate, management, guideline, information, disease


not show any difference in effectiveness between enema and suppository. Topical aminosalicylates alone are recommended for up to 4weeks because the evidence showed that they were the most effective treatment within this timeframe. There was no direct evidence for combining topical and oral aminosalicylates for people with proctitis. However, evidence showed that this combination was effective for people with proctosigmoiditis, and the committee agreed that this evidence was also applicable to people with proctitis alone. The committee chose not to specify a dose for the oral aminosalicylate. It preferred to leave it open to clinical judgment depending on the specific situation (for example, the clinician could give a low dose if the person had not taken an aminosalicylate before, or a high dose if the person was already taking a low dose). oral or topical corticosteroids are commonly added at this stage, but there was no evidence on this combination. The committee agreed that, based on their experience, adding a topical or oral corticosteroid should be an option at this stage. Despite the lack of direct evidence for the effectiveness of topical or oral corticosteroids, the committee agreed that, based on their experience, these should also be an option for people who cannot tolerate aminosalicylates. Some people decline topical treatment, preferring oral to topical aminosalicylates. This is more common in children and young people, although proctitis is not common in this group. As the Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) evidence showed that oral aminosalicylates are not as effective at inducing remission, the committee thought it was important to explain this to people who decline topical aminosalicylates. There was cost-effectiveness evidence showing that using an immunomodulator as the next line of treatment after oral or topical corticosteroids and oral aminosalicylate produced greater health immunomodulators was limited and it was unclear how applicable it was to UK clinical practice. Because of this, the committee recommended the sequence without this final treatment, and recommended further research on topical immunomodulators. PPrrooccttoossiiggmmooiiddiittiiss oorr lleefftt--ssiiddeedd uullcceerraattiivvee ccoolliittiiss There is evidence that topical aminosalicylates are effective for achieving remission in people with mild-to-moderate proctosigmoiditis or left-sided ulcerative colitis. In the committee's experience topical aminosalicylates also work faster and more effectively than topical corticosteroids. Topical aminosalicylates alone are recommended for up to 4weeks because the evidence showed that they were effective within this timeframe. Cost-effectiveness evidence also showed that treatment sequences starting with topical aminosalicylates produced greater health benefits
