UUllcceerraattiivvee ccoolliittiiss:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative colitis, ulcerative, people, oral, topical, treatment, remission, aminosalicylates, evidence, aminosalicylate, management, guideline, information, disease


for up to 4weeks because the evidence showed that they were effective within this timeframe. Cost-effectiveness evidence also showed that treatment sequences starting with topical aminosalicylates produced greater health benefits and incurred lower total costs than other strategies. There is no direct evidence for the effectiveness of high-dose oral aminosalicylates combined with either topical aminosalicylates or topical corticosteroids. However, there is evidence that topical treatments or high-dose oral aminosalicylates individually provide some benefit. Therefore, the committee agreed it was reasonable to recommend combinations of these if remission is not achieved. While there was limited evidence for oral corticosteroids, in the committee's experience an oral corticosteroid may benefit people with proctosigmoiditis or left-sided disease if further treatment is needed. As a result, they recommended oral corticosteroids with oral aminosalicylates instead of topical treatment for these people. This reflects current practice for people who do not achieve remission with topical treatments and high-dose oral aminosalicylates. EExxtteennssiivvee uullcceerraattiivvee ccoolliittiiss The evidence showed that people with mild-to-moderate extensive ulcerative colitis would benefit most from a combination of high-dose oral aminosalicylates with topical aminosalicylates as first- line treatment. High-dose oral aminosalicylates combined with topical aminosalicylates are recommended for up to 4weeks, because in the committee's experience they are the most effective treatment within this timeframe. There is evidence that an oral corticosteroid combined with a high-dose oral aminosalicylate is also effective, so the committee recommended this combination if remission is not achieved with aminosalicylates alone. In people who cannot tolerate Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) aminosalicylates, oral corticosteroids are recommended as they are also an effective treatment option. The sequence of drugs recommended was more effective than starting with a high-dose oral aminosalicylate alone. There was some uncertainty around the cost effectiveness of this sequence. The data on the effectiveness of high-dose oral aminosalicylates combined with topical whose disease did not respond to treatment within 4weeks would switch to another treatment. When the cost-effectiveness analysis allowed for early switching, the combination of a high-dose oral aminosalicylate and topical aminosalicylate was not cost effective. However, if it was assumed that everyone continued treatment as described in the trial, the combination of a high-dose oral aminosalicylate and topical aminosalicylate was more likely to be cost effective. The committee took the uncertainty about the cost-effectiveness results in the different scenarios into account in recommending the combination as first-line treatment. There was some evidence on methotrexate for inducing remission, but
