UUllcceerraattiivvee ccoolliittiiss:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative colitis, ulcerative, people, oral, topical, treatment, remission, aminosalicylates, evidence, aminosalicylate, management, guideline, information, disease


took the uncertainty about the cost-effectiveness results in the different scenarios into account in recommending the combination as first-line treatment. There was some evidence on methotrexate for inducing remission, but it did not show a clear benefit, and there was no evidence on oral tacrolimus. To address these gaps in the evidence, the committeerecommended further research on the effectiveness of tacrolimus and methotrexate. AAllll eexxtteennttss ooff ddiisseeaassee Most of the evidence was for adults. However, the committee agreed to generalise the recommendations to all people with a mild-to-moderate exacerbation or first presentation of ulcerative colitis. There is limited evidence on oral corticosteroids. In addition, the committee agreed that the use of oral corticosteroids is generally reserved for later lines of treatment because of concerns about side effects. It is not clear which corticosteroid is most effective for each extent of disease. There is also limited evidence on immunomodulators, specifically oral tacrolimus and systemic methotrexate for each extent of disease. The committeerecommended further researchto address these uncertainties. HHooww tthhee rreeccoommmmeennddaattiioonnss mmiigghhtt aaffffeecctt pprraaccttiiccee The new recommendations classify the extents of ulcerative colitis differently. This more closely reflects current practice, so will be clearer and more informative for people with mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis and healthcare professionals. The recommendations in the 2013 guideline referred to specific corticosteroids. To better reflect Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) the available evidence, the updated recommendations refer to aminosalicylates and corticosteroids as a class rather than recommending individual treatments. This allows healthcare professionals and people with mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis to choose the most appropriate corticosteroid or aminosalicylate, depending on patient preference, availability and acquisition cost. The new recommendations specify that courses of oral corticosteroids should be time-limited. This should address varying practice in prescribing for some corticosteroids. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are inevidence review: induction of remission in mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) CCoonntteexxtt Ulcerative colitis is the most common type of inflammatory bowel disease. There are around 146,000people in the UK with a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis (Crohn's & Colitis UK). The cause of ulcerative colitis is unknown. It can develop at any age, but peak incidence is between the ages of 15 and 25years, with a second, smaller peak between 55 and 65years (although this second peak has not been universally demonstrated). Ulcerative colitis usually affects the rectum, and a variable extent of the colon proximal to the rectum. The
