UUllcceerraattiivvee ccoolliittiiss:: mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
KEYWORDS: colitis, ulcerative colitis, ulcerative, people, oral, topical, treatment, remission, aminosalicylates, evidence, aminosalicylate, management, guideline, information, disease


to support people considering elective surgery. The wide choice of drug preparations and dosing regimens, the judgement required in determining the optimum timing for surgery (both electively and as an emergency) and the importance of support and information may lead to variation in practice across the UK. This guideline aims to address this variation, and to help healthcare professionals to provide consistent high-quality care. Managing ulcerative colitis in adults and children overlaps in many regards, so the guideline incorporates advice that is applicable to children and young people, which again should help to address potential inconsistencies in practice. Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) FFiinnddiinngg mmoorree iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn aanndd rreessoouurrcceess You can see everything NICE says on ulcerative colitis in our interactive flowchart onulcerative colitis. To find out what NICE has said on topics related to this guideline, see our web page on inflammatory bowel disease. For full details of the evidence and the guideline committee's discussions, see theevidence reviews. You can also find information abouthow the guideline was developed, including details of the committee. NICE has producedtools and resourcesto help you put this guideline into practice. For general help and advice on putting NICE guidelines into practice seepractical steps to improving the quality of care and services using NICE guidance. Ulcerative colitis: management (NG130) UUppddaattee iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn This guideline is an update of NICE guideline CG166 (published June 2013) and replaces it. We have reviewed the evidence on inducing remission for people with mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis. These recommendations are marked[]. Recommendations marked[]or[]last had an evidence review in 2008 or 2013. In some cases minor changes have been made to the wording to bring the language and style up to date, without changing the meaning. ISBN: 978-1-4731-3392-1 Accreditation
