Right heart failure overview
KEYWORDS: right, heart, failure, ventricular, right ventricular, heart failure, pulmonary, right heart, ventricle, acute, hypertension, right ventricle, dysfunction, pulmonary hypertension, pressure


Complications and Prognosis 2/5 Right heart failure, if left undiagnosed and untreated, may lead to impaired quality of life and eventually death. There are several factors that define this natural history depending mainly on the underlying etiology or mechanism of injury, the onset of illness, how early treatment was initiated, and other comorbidities. Progression is often driven by a cycle of rising right sided filling pressures, impaired forward flow, worsening systemic congestion with hepatic and renal dysfunction, and further neurohormonal activation. In pressure overload states, worsening right ventricle to pulmonary artery uncoupling is a key inflection point associated with clinical deterioration.[1][4] Diagnosis In the initial approach to a patient with right heart failure, it is important to determine the underlying etiology, assess functional status, determine the presence of end organ dysfunction (liver and kidney most notably), and identify associated conditions. History and Symptoms Right heart failure is frequently associated with shortness of breath, exercise intolerance and coughing, and in later stages chest discomfort and swelling of the feet or ankles. According to the 2009 Canadian Cardiovascular Society Consensus Conference update on right sided heart failure, right heart failure should be suspected when a patient presents with unexplained exercise intolerance or hypotension with signs of elevated jugular venous pressure (JVP), peripheral edema, hepatomegaly, or a combination of these findings.[14] Physical Exam Physical exam should consist of a thorough cardiovascular exam, an abdominal exam, and examination of the extremities. Findings to be aware of are cyanosis, JVD, S2 and S3 heart sounds, ascites, hepatomegaly, and pedal edema. Laboratory Findings Laboratory tests are not diagnostic for heart failure, but they are essential to identify precipitating factors of decompensation, assess severity, monitor adverse effects of therapy, and provide prognostic information.[15] In addition, in patients with right heart failure, an arterial blood gas can be useful in assessing hypoxemia and guiding oxygen therapy. Electrocardiogram Right heart failure is often accompanied by right ventricular hypertrophy and right ventricular dilation. General electrocardiographic findings of right ventricular hypertrophy include right axis deviation, an R S ratio greater than 1 in V1, and the presence of P pulmonale. Chest X Ray 3/5 The plain chest radiograph has limited utility in identifying right heart failure. It might show evidence of underlying causes such as pulmonary embolism or congenital heart disease. Echocardiography Transthoracic echocardiography plays a key role in the diagnosis of right heart failure by evaluating right ventricular size and
