United European Gastroenterology Journal
KEYWORDS: malabsorption, patients, etal, disease, gastroenterology, consensus, small, test, tests, breath, intestinal, statement, diagnosis, european, symptoms


statement was agreed upon by all the participants. malabsorption and special populations; Group 4—Nutritional Each statement is followed by a brief explanatory text. Since supplementation, treatment goals, and supportive care. most of our statements are either definitions of malabsorption, ofthepreviousgroups.Theconsensuscoordinators(MVL,ADS, ommendations, we could not fully apply the GRADE method- GRC) harmonised and supervised each step. Multiple online ologyforratingthequalityofevidence.Thisisalsobecause,in and face‐to‐face meetings were held during the entire period theveryminorityofstatementsregardingtestsorinterventions, neededtocompletetheconsensus(November2021–June2024). either the quality of evidence was overall poor, or other dedi- All participants met yearly for reporting onthe progress of the cated,recentguidelinesorconsensusalreadyexist. consensus at the annual UEG Week, either in presence or online. Thepresentconsensushasbeensplitintotwoparts,inorderto enhance its readability and to better focus on specific issues aroundthistopic. 2.2 | Step 1: Literature Search and Questions The online platforms Pubmed and EMBASE were used for diagnostic criteria literature search in September 2022–April 2023, by using standardisedMeSHtermswiththeconnectors‘OR’,‘AND’.The 3.1 | What Are the Definitions of Maldigestion search was not restricted to the title or the abstract but all pa- and Malabsorption? pers were considered. Each working group searched for all pa- pers published since database inception (i.e., with no temporal 3.1.1 | Statement restrictions)andwritten(ortranslated)inEnglish.Additionally, wesearchedthereferencelistsoflandmarkreviewsorsystem- Maldigestion is defined as the defective hydrolysis of large‐ atic reviews dealing with the specific issue of the research molecular nutrients into absorbable small molecular compo- question. The research questions were those described above, nents.Malabsorptionisdefinedasanimpairedabilitytoabsorb and the first literature review focussed on those questions. In nutrientsthroughtheintestinalmucosaintothebloodstreamor theend, each workinggroup filledinseveral PRISMA flowdi- agrams (Supporting Information S1–S6) for choosing the rele- term‘malabsorption’isacceptable. vant papers to be included. Since thousands of papers were identified, in the explanatory text, only the most relevant were Accordingtoourstatement,thetermmaldigestionreferstothe included. A second literature review was performed after mul- alteredmechanismsofdigestionoftheingestedfood,whilethe tiple online meetings held for identifying the consensus state- term malassimilation combines both maldigestion and malab- ments according to the population, intervention, comparison, sorption. The clinical presentation and complications of mal- and outcome (PICO) framework, when applicable for those statements discussing interventions. A final list of statements purposes, the distinction between malabsorption and maldi- wasagreeduponinMay2023afterthreeonlinemeetings.The gestion is of limited value . Mechanisms that determine UEGframeworkhasbeenfollowed. malabsorptioncanbedividedintopremucosalabnormalities(or flawed intraluminal digestion), mucosal abnormalities (maldi- gestionormalabsorption),mucosalintracellularorpostcellular, and vascular and lymphatic transport abnormalities (malab- 2.3 | Step 2: Modified Delphi Process sorption). A multiple rounds modified Delphi process was applied for identifying the final statements/recommendations to be included in the consensus. More specifically, all statements 3.1.2 | Statement weretransferredontoaGoogleform,andeachparticipantvoted onthelevelofagreement.Thelevelofagreementwasassessed Themalabsorptionsyndrome,thatis,theclinicalsymptomsand ona6‐pointlikertscale,namelyagreestrongly(Aþ),agreewith signs
