United European Gastroenterology Journal
KEYWORDS: malabsorption, patients, etal, disease, gastroenterology, consensus, small, test, tests, breath, intestinal, statement, diagnosis, european, symptoms


multiple rounds modified Delphi process was applied for identifying the final statements/recommendations to be included in the consensus. More specifically, all statements 3.1.2 | Statement weretransferredontoaGoogleform,andeachparticipantvoted onthelevelofagreement.Thelevelofagreementwasassessed Themalabsorptionsyndrome,thatis,theclinicalsymptomsand ona6‐pointlikertscale,namelyagreestrongly(Aþ),agreewith signs caused by malabsorption, is determined by the type and minor reservation (A), agree with major reservation (A−), amountofthemalabsorbedsubstrates,bythedeficiencyofthe disagree with minor reservation (D), disagree with major malabsorbed nutrients, by the underlying disease, and by the reservation (D−), and strongly disagree (Dþ). Although a spe- consequences of accumulation of the malabsorbed substrate in cific cut‐off of agreement was not set for approving the final thelumenofthegastrointestinaltract. statement, all those statements having more than 10% disagreement (D, D− or Dþ) were discussed with the whole The metabolic and absorptive capacity of the colon and its group,amendedandre‐votedbyallparticipantsinasecondand microbiome may be clinically relevant for providing nutrients thirdroundofvoting.Afterthesecondorthirdroundofvoting, for absorption and for causing symptoms and complications of inallcases,afinalagreementof>80% wasreached. malabsorption. Colonic bacterial metabolism of carbohydrates 602of658 UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 to short chain fatty acids, which are readily absorbable in the Liberationofsubstrate(e.g.,vitaminB12)frombindingsites colon , results in the salvage of calories . However, infoodor,conversely,bindingtoproteinssuchastheintrinsic colonic salvage of malabsorbed nutrients can also result in factorallowsitsabsorption.Chemicalchangestonutrients symptoms and complications such as renal stones resulting mayberequiredforabsorption,suchasreducingthechargeof from colonic hyperabsorption of oxalate with consequent ironfromFeþþþtoFeþþ.Intestinalsensoryandmotorfunction hyperoxaluria or symptoms because of the accumulation of permits detection of the presence of nutrients, facilitates gases resulting from bacterial metabolism of malabsorbed car- adequate mixing of nutrients with intestinal secretions and bohydrates . The healthy colon has the capacity to delivery to absorptive sites, and provides adequate time for absorb a wide variety of substances and nutrients including nutrient absorption. Neural and hormonal functions are also sodium, chloride, water, short‐chain fatty acids, calcium, mag- required to stimulate and coordinate digestive secretions, nesium,water‐solublevitamins(biotin,folate,pantothenicacid mucosal absorption, and intestinal motility . [B5], pyridoxine [B6], riboflavin [B2], thiamine [B1]), and vitaminK. Malabsorptive symptoms caused by deficiencyof nutrients are, 3.2.2 | Statement among others, anaemia, weight loss, oedema, bleeding, osteo- caused by excess substrate in the intestine are, among others, spectrum,rangingfromsubtleclinicalpresentationstoclinically stones. dominatedbyextra‐intestinalmanifestations. sequences of malabsorption may be the presenting clinical Malabsorption? malabsorption may be obscured by more prominent symptoms of the underlying disease. The symptoms and clinical conse- 3.2.1 | Statement quences of malabsorption may become clinically evident only after an extended duration of malabsorption. Malabsorptive defects), secondary to surgical procedures or caused by many extraintestinal manifestations . Typical malabsorption diseases or conditions originating from, or affecting, the small symptoms are weight
