United European Gastroenterology Journal
KEYWORDS: malabsorption, patients, etal, disease, gastroenterology, consensus, small, test, tests, breath, intestinal, statement, diagnosis, european, symptoms


duration of malabsorption. Malabsorptive defects), secondary to surgical procedures or caused by many extraintestinal manifestations . Typical malabsorption diseases or conditions originating from, or affecting, the small symptoms are weight loss, malnutrition or failure to thrive, intestine, the pancreas, the liver, the biliary tract and the dehydration, steatorrhoea, and chronic diarrhoea. Other man- stomach. Pathophysiological mechanisms that cause malab- ifestationsinwhichmalabsorptionshouldbeconsideredasthe sorptioncanbedividedintopremucosalabnormalities,mucosal underlyeing cause are hypoproteinemia, anaemia, electrolyte abnormalities, and mucosal intracellular/postcellular and imbalances, abdominal symptoms such as bloating, change in ditions that result in malabsorption are characterised by Malabsorptionmaybetheresultofcongenital(primary)defects chronic diarrhoea, and this may mimick some functional of mucosal carrier proteins. These defects may clinically result bowel disorders including functional diarrhoea and irritable inalargevarietyofabdominalandextra‐abdominalsymptoms bowel syndrome. In this regard, a recent guideline on func- and organ complications, including dermatologic, neurologic tionalboweldisorderswithdiarrhoeahasbeenreleasedby the and psychiatric manifestations and mental retardation . UEG . In this guideline, although the authors recommend Malabsorption can be caused by non‐congenital (secondary) a symptom‐based approach as compared with a diagnostic conditions, namely surgical procedures and by many diseases strategy of exclusion in patients with chronic diarrhoea, they originating from or involving the small intestine and the also suggest further testing when organic disorders are sus- practice, pathophysiological mechanisms may be mixed and reactive protein, CD serology, and faecal calprotectin in all severalorgansmaybeaffected. cases. Physiologic processes other than digestion and absorption Malabsorptionanditsclinicalpresentationmayberestrictedto contributetothenormalabsorptionofnutrients,vitamins,and deficiency of single nutrients and may present clinically as minerals. Solubilization is a prerequisite for absorption of nu- specificdeficiencydisorders,suchashypocalcemia,resultingin trients such as fat or calcium . Fat and fat‐soluble vitamins osteomalaciaandosteoporosis,orironorvitaminB12deficiency are solubilized by the formation of micelles, and calcium is resultinginbloodcellcountalterations (includingiso- solubilized through acidification in the gastrointestinal lumen. lated anisocytosis or mean cell volume alterations, anaemia, Alternatively, increased solubilization of the components of thrombocytopaenia or thrombocytosis, leucopenia). Sometimes intestinal chyme may contribute to the manifestations of extra‐abdominal symptoms may become prominent such as gastrointestinal diseases, such as increased absorption of oxa- menstrual disturbances, growth delay in children, neurological late,whichcanresultinthedevelopmentofkidneystones. alterations,miscarriage,orinfertility. 603of658 3.3 | What Are the Most Appropriate Diagnostic 4 | Initial assessment, testing for malabsorption Criteria for Malabsorption? and its causes 3.3.1 | Statement 4.1 | HowShouldPhysiciansEstablishaDiagnosis of Malabsorption? tests may be helpful in raising the suspicion of malabsorption, 4.1.1 | Statement selecting specific tests to document deficiencies and their sequelae, and detecting the underlying disease. Moreover, the Testsandexamsshouldbeordereddependingonclinicaldata, presence of malabsorption should be considered in patients medical and surgical history, and
