United European Gastroenterology Journal
KEYWORDS: malabsorption, patients, etal, disease, gastroenterology, consensus, small, test, tests, breath, intestinal, statement, diagnosis, european, symptoms


, support the no‐biopsy Themainlimitationoftheoesophagogastroduodenoscopyisits approach in selected adult cases. More indepth, adult patients inability to reach beyond the duodenum, which can be 606of658 UnitedEuropeanGastroenterologyJournal,2025 such as in the case of complicated CD (i.e., enteropathy‐asso- ciated T‐cell lymphoma, ulcerative jejuno‐ileitis and refractory The currently available evidence does not support the use of CD), by double balloon enteroscopy, and to some extent by breath testing for diagnosing small intestinal bacterial video capsule endoscopy, which offers visual assessment overgrowth. without the possibility to obtain biopsies . It has been sug- gested that, when complicated CD is suspected, video capsule Breath tests have long been used to assess carbohydrate endoscopy could be used as a first‐line examination for malabsorption (see Part 2 of the consensus) and SIBO [59, 69– discriminatingpatientsdeservingadoubleballoonenteroscopy 73]. In practical terms, the patient is given a carbohydrate to .Thissequentialapproachyieldsagoodaccuracyinthis ingest, and several quantitative measurements of exhaled setting. hydrogen (H ) and methane (CH ), as well as symptoms expe- 2 4 rienced, are taken at regular intervals. Carbohydrate malab- sorption results in colonic fermentation of the ingested and/or unabsorbed substrate. Exhaled H and/or CH are only pro- 2 4 4.2.3 | Statement duced by fermentation and thus reflect the arrival of the un- absorbed carbohydrate in the colon. SIBO will result in D‐xylosetestinghasbeenusedinthepasttoassesssmallbowel fermentation of the ingested sugar in the small intestine by mucosaabsorptivefunction,butitsclinicalusefulnessislimited. entericbacteriathatshouldnotbepresentatthatlevel[74–85]. D‐xylose is an actively absorbed and passively diffusing five‐ The most recent guidelines and expert consensus carbon monosaccharide that has been used for many years to have discouraged the use of breath tests for the diagnosis of assesstheintestinalabsorptioncapacity.Itsabsorptionissimilar SIBO due to several limitations affecting their accuracy. For from few and dated studies that mostly focussed on patients response to antibiotics. According to the latest meta‐analysis, withCD.Accordingtoaseminalreview,inadults,thestandard the lactulose breath test has a pooled sensitivity of 42% and protocol is based on the ingestion of 25‐g D‐xylose in 250– pooled specificity of 70.6% . For the glucose breath test 600 mL of water in the fasting state, with an analysis of a 5‐h only, in patients with a predisposing condition to SIBO (i.e., urine collection and a 1‐h serum sample, discriminating be- history of abdominal surgery), the accuracy was higher tween normal subjects and patients with proximal small intes- (sensitivity 81.7% and specificity 78.8%) but still suboptimal. tinal malabsorption with a high specificity and sensitivity All this would translate into a high rate of false positive
