United European Gastroenterology Journal
KEYWORDS: malabsorption, patients, etal, disease, gastroenterology, consensus, small, test, tests, breath, intestinal, statement, diagnosis, european, symptoms


proximal small intes- (sensitivity 81.7% and specificity 78.8%) but still suboptimal. tinal malabsorption with a high specificity and sensitivity All this would translate into a high rate of false positive tests ( > 95%). In paediatric patients, the 1‐h serum test after with subsequent risk of unnecessary antibiotic treatment. It administration of 5 g of D‐xylose was also highly sensitive has also been suggested to associate a test of oro‐caecal transit (<91%)andspecific(nearly100%). time to improve breath test accuracy for SIBO ; however, even those tests are burdened by high variability and poor paresis, renal insufficiency, and SIBO may result in a false‐ practice (e.g., scintigraphy). positive test. In order to avoid the consequences of an have suggested to use priority 1‐h blood results and correct tations, from simple abdominal symptoms such as bloating, them to a standardised body surface area of 1.73 m2 (xylose abdominal discomfort, flatulence, diarrhoea, and unspecific levels x actual surface area/1.73) , but others favour urine symptoms such as fatigue and poor concentration to more se- measurements . Other changes regarding doses inges- vere manifestations such as malabsorption, nutrient deficiency ted and time points for blood and urine collection were sug- and weight loss [92–98]. SIBO should only be considered in trials available. 14C‐xylose and 13C‐xylose breath tests and H 2 suchasanatomicalabnormalitiesorpost‐surgerystructuralgut breath tests with D‐xylose were evaluated in the diagnosis of changes (e.g., gastric bypass or Roux‐en‐Y), medications or malabsorption in CD patients but with a varying sensi- conditions slowing down gut motility, small bowel dysmotility tivity and only in one study. and other diseases such as hepatic encephalopathy, gastro- paresis, Parkinson's disease, chronic pancreatitis andend‐stage In summary, because of the small number of studies, with a renal disease . To date, there is no consensus on a smallsamplesizeandpotentialbias,andbecauseofthescarce universal test for detecting SIBO. Culture of jejunal aspirates availabilityofthesubstrate,thistestisnotcurrentlyindicatedin usedtobeconsideredasagoldstandardbutthisprocedure thesettingofmalabsorption. is invasive, difficult to perform and, in certain circumstances, maylacksensitivity[72,100–105].Ourknowledgeinthefieldof settingsandintertiaryreferralcentres,suchasinthefollow‐up evolving , and the concepts of SIBO and small bowel dys- of intestinal failure patients after small bowel transplant or biosis, along with their diagnosis, are likely to change in the duringGLP‐2analoguetreatment . nearfuture. 607of658 4.2.5 | Statement Thevastmajorityofpatients(85%–90%)withcysticfibrosiswill presentwithEPIleadingtoseveremalabsorptionatbirthorin We suggest the use of the 13C‐mixed triglyceride breath test or infancy . Cystic fibrosis is the most important differential steatocrittomeasurefatmalabsorptionwhenavailable.Inpatients diagnosisinchildrenwithEPI.Diagnosisinindividualsoutside withsuspectedsteatorrhoea,measurementoffaecalelastaseorthe ofnewborn screeningreliesonthecombinationofclinical evi- 13C‐mixedtriglyceridebreathtestmaybeusedtodetectEPI. dence, for example, EPI, and evidence of CF transmembrane conductanceregulator(CFTR)dysfunction.Thelattercan Fat malabsorptionis atypical resultof severe EPIbutcan
