ACG CASE REPORTS JOURNAL
KEYWORDS: brunner, gland, brunner gland, adenoma, gland adenoma, case, hyperplasia, dysplasia, benign, resection, cases, report, literature, duodenum, dysplastic


occur in Brunner’s gland benign, small-bowel neoplasm, we report a case with focal hyperplasia,andmetaplasiamaybea precursorlesioninthe HGD. Only a few cases in the literature have reported processofcarcinogenesisinBrunner’sglandadenoma. Brunner’s gland adenoma with cellular atypia or neoplasia, with1studyreportingdysplasticchangesin2.1%andinvasive Themechanismbehindthedevelopmentofdysplasiaandne- carcinomain0.3%ofallBrunner’sglandhyperplasia.2-9Of722 oplasiainBrunner’s glandadenoma isunclear.It islikelythe casesofBrunner’sglandhyperplasiaexaminedforhyperplas- resultofrepeatedmucosaldamageresultingfrommechanical tic changes culminating in dysplasia and carcinoma, 15 cases stimuli, H. pylori infection, and a hyperacidic environment in ACGCaseReportsJournal/Volume5 acgcasereports.gi.org 2 A B the duodenum that activates the mucosal repair mechanism endoscopygivenheradvancedageandcomorbidconditions, and facilitates the proliferation of Brunner’s glands.10,11 It has andsheisotherwisedoingwell. been speculated that theincrease in size ofBrunner’s gland In conclusion, this case illustrates the potential for dysplasia hyperplasiainducesulcerationofthesurfacemucosa,andthe in Brunner’s gland adenoma, previously felt to be benign subsequentrepairwithgastricfoveolarmetaplasiawithpapil- lesions, and raises the question of potential malignant trans- lary architecture in turn evokes dysplastic and neoplastic changes.9 Ofnote, the relationship with H. pyloriinfectionis formation. The pathophysiology of the development of dys- unclear;inourcase,H.pyloriimmunostainwasnegative. plasia and malignant transformation in these lesions is not completely understood. Given the presence of HGD in Brunner’sglandadenomaisoftenanincidentalfindingduring Brunner’s gland adenoma in this case, and considering prior EGDorimaging.Theselesionscanalsocausegastrointestinal reportswithcellularatypiaorneoplasia,itisjudicioustoavoid bleeding.12,13 Several cases in the literature report Brunner’s presuming that all Brunner’s gland adenomas are benign.2-9 glandadenomawithdysplasiaorneoplasia,whichsuggestsa Endoscopic polypectomy or resection of Brunner’s gland dysplastic stage in the natural history of Brunner’s gland adenomascanallowfordiagnosisandexclusionofunderlying hyperplasia and questions the overtly malignant potential of dysplasia or malignancy; it can also be curative, as was the such lesions.2,3,6-8 In one case, primary duodenal adenocarci- caseforourpatient. nomaarisingfromBrunner’sglandwasreportedafter17years of observation.3 It remains controversial whether a small, asymptomatic Brunner’s gland adenoma found incidentally duringEGDshouldberemoved;somesuggestthatBrunner’s DISCLOSURES gland adenomas should be followed sequentially and Author contributions: FH Ramay wrote the manuscript. JC removediftheirshapeorsizechangessignificantly.3,11,14Inthe Papadimitriou provided the histological images. PE Darwin case of a symptomatic Brunner’s gland adenoma, polypec- revisedthemanuscriptandisthearticleguarantor. tomy or resection is generally recommended. Endoscopic confirmationofthediagnosisandexcludesunderlyingdyspla- was supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and sia or malignancy, but can also be curative such as in this Digestive and Kidney Diseases of the National Institutes of patient. Health under award number T32DK067872. The content is solelytheresponsibilityoftheauthorsanddoesnotnecessar- Therearenodataonrecurrenceorrecommendationsregard- ilyreflectviewsoftheNationalInstitutesofHealth. ing endoscopic surveillance after resection of a Brunner’s gland adenoma with dysplasia or neoplasia. We recommend Informedconsentwasobtainedforthecasereport. surveillance endoscopy after endoscopic polypectomy or resection for follow-up. Our patient declined surveillance ReceivedFebruary12,2018;AcceptedAugust6,2018 * * * * Ramayetal Brunner'sGlandAdenomawithHGD Figure2. Histologicalimages of Brunner’s gland hyperplasia in the duodenum. (A) Low-power view showing the adenoma between the aster- isks * and the clear margins (arrows). (B) High-power
