Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


ABSTRACT The pituitary region in childhood can be mainly affected by two kinds of neoplasia: craniopharyngiomas and pituitary adenomas. Craniopharyngiomas accounts for 1.2 to 4% of all childhood intracranial tumors, at this age adamantinomatous with cyst formation is the most common histological type. Craniopharyngiomas are benign from a histological point of view, but they can be aggressive, invading surrounding tissues and bony structures. Clinical presentation is non-specific with neurological disturbances, such as headache and visual field defects, together with manifestations of endocrine deficiency. Pituitary adenomas constitute less than 3% of supra-tentorial tumors in children, they are less common in pediatric patients than in adolescents or adults. Prolactinoma is the most frequent adenoma type in children, followed by the corticotrophinoma and the somatotrophinoma. Non-functioning pituitary adenomas, TSH-secreting, and gonadotrophin-secreting adenomas are extremely rare in children, accounting for only 3-6% of all pituitary tumors. Presenting symptoms are typically related to endocrine dysfunction, rather than to mass effects. Pituitary adenomas in childhood may have a genetic cause and, in some cases, additional manifestations can occur as part of a syndromic disease. Therapeutic options depend on the tumor type, with surgical approach often remaining the first choice. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Pituitary function depends on the integrity of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis and the functionality of numerous differentiated cell lines in the anterior pituitary lobe that specialize in specific hormone production. The development of these cell lines is the result of events during pituitary organogenesis that are under the sequential control of transcription factors ( 1 ). Any abnormality occurring in the pituitary gland, either congenital (congenital malformations, genetic abnormalities) or acquired (perinatal insults, tumors, infections), will cause profound alterations of the whole endocrine system. Tumors in the pituitary region can be classified on the basis of topographic criteria as intra-, supra- para- or retrosellar ( 2 ). Intrasellar tumors are mostly represented by pituitary adenomas (more than 90% of all intrasellar lesions), while dys-embryogenetic lesions such as Rathke’s pouch cyst or pituitary blastomas are less frequent. The suprasellar tumors are dys-embryogenetic lesions of the midline such as craniopharyngiomas, germinomas, dermoid or epidermoid cysts, lipomas, teratomas, and hamartomas. Other tumors such as meningiomas or gliomas are uncommon during childhood or adolescence. Craniopharyngiomas, the most common cause of hypopituitarism in childhood, and adenomas are the most frequent lesions of the pituitary region
