Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


as meningiomas or gliomas are uncommon during childhood or adolescence. Craniopharyngiomas, the most common cause of hypopituitarism in childhood, and adenomas are the most frequent lesions of the pituitary region in children and adolescents. Virtually all tumors of this region are benign. This chapter aims at reviewing the most recent epidemiological, diagnostic, and therapeutic knowledge on pituitary tumors in childhood and adolescence. CRANIOPHARYNGIOMAS Craniopharyngiomas are rare embryonic malformations of the sellar and parasellar area with an incidence of 0.5 to 2 cases per million persons per year, 30 to 50% of all cases presenting during childhood and adolescence ( 3 - 7 ). They originate from squamous rest cells of the remnant of Rathke’s pouch between the adenohypophysis and neurohypophysis in the region of the pars tuberalis. Rathke’s pouch is a cystic diverticulum from the roof of the embryonic mouth that gives rise to the adenohypophysis and determines the induction of the neurohypophysis. Craniopharyngiomas represent 1.2 to 4% of all childhood intracranial tumors ( 8 - 10 ) and show a bimodal distribution during the first-second decade of life and then in the fifth, apparently without any gender difference ( 5 , 7 ). The tumor generally originates in the suprasellar region (94-95%), purely suprasellar (20–41%) or both supra- and intrasellar (53–75%), whereas the purely intrasellar forms (5-6%) are less frequent ( 5 ). Extremely rare are forms originating in the III ventricle, in the rhinopharynx, in the sphenoid, or in other locations ( 5 ). In their pure form, the adamantinomatous form and papillary form are clinicopathologically distinct. In childhood and adolescence, its histological type is usually adamantinomatous with cyst formation ( 3 - 7 ). The pathogenesis of adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma is characterized by the deregulation of the Wnt pathway, in particular by activating mutations in exon 3 of the CTNNB1 gene encoding for β-catenin ( 11 - 13 ). Otherwise, most of papillary craniopharyngioma show a BRAF V600E mutation, resulting into activation of MAPK pathway ( 13 , 14 ). Papillary forms exhibiting BRAF V600E mutations are rarely found in the pediatric age range ( 15 , 16 ). Craniopharyngiomas are benign from a histological evaluation but they can be aggressive, invading surrounding bony structures and tissues; they commonly have cystic components that may be multiple and generally cause compression of adjacent neurological structures ( 3 - 7 ). The adamantinomatous form is more locally aggressive and is
