Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


commonly have cystic components that may be multiple and generally cause compression of adjacent neurological structures ( 3 - 7 ). The adamantinomatous form is more locally aggressive and is characterized by a higher rate of recurrence than the papillary form ( 17 ). The molecular basis of this phenomenon is still not defined; however, a recent study showed that tissue infiltration could be favored by signaling of tyrosine kinase ( 18 ). Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis The diagnosis of craniopharyngioma is often made late, sometimes years after the initial appearance of symptoms. Neurological disturbances, such as headache and visual field defects, together with manifestations of endocrine deficiency such as stunted growth and delayed puberty, are the common presenting symptoms of craniopharyngiomas ( 3 - 7 ). Among adult-onset craniopharyngioma patients, hormonal deficits at the time of diagnosis are much more pronounced when compared with childhood-onset craniopharyngioma patients ( 3 ). At diagnosis, endocrine dysfunction is found in up to 80% of patients ( 3 - 7 ). Reduced GH secretion is the most frequent finding, present in up to 75% of patients, followed by FSH/LH deficiency in 40%, and ACTH and TSH deficiency in 25% ( 3 - 7 ). Despite the fact that the tumor is frequently large at presentation, the pituitary stalk is usually not disrupted, and hyperprolactinemia secondary to pituitary stalk compression is found in only 20% of patients ( 3 - 7 ). Diabetes insipidus is also relatively uncommon, occurring in ~17% of patients ( 3 - 7 , 19 ). An increase in weight tends to occur as a later manifestation, shortly before diagnosis ( 3 - 7 ). Then, the clinical combination of headache, visual impairment, decreased growth rate, and/or polydipsia/polyuria would be very suggestive of childhood craniopharyngioma in the differential diagnostic process ( 20 ). To date, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) before and after gadolinium application is the standard imaging for the detection for craniopharyngiomas. The neuroradiological diagnosis of craniopharyngiomas is based on the features of the lesion itself and on its relations with the surrounding structures. Particularly, the diagnosis is mainly based on the three characteristic components of the tumor: cystic, solid and calcified ( 5 , 7 , 21 - 23 ). The cystic component ( Fig.1 and 2 ) constitutes the most important neoplastic part (up to the 70-75% of the total volume), and shows a variable signal depending
