Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


23 ). The cystic component ( Fig.1 and 2 ) constitutes the most important neoplastic part (up to the 70-75% of the total volume), and shows a variable signal depending on the chemical-physical properties of its content ( 24 ). A fluid content will appear hypointense in T1 and hyperintense in T2 while a lipid (due to cholesterol), methemoglobin or protein content will appear as hyperintense in T1 and T2 sequences. The solid portion shows an isointense signal in T1 and a hyperintense signal in T2 with enhancement after gadolinium, at variance with the cystic component ( Fig. 3 and 4 ). However, enhancement after paramagnetic contrast is not a consistent feature ( 24 ). Computed tomography (CT) imaging is the only way to detect or exclude calcification, which is found in approximately 90% of tumors and therefore a crucial differentiating component for diagnosis ( 21 - 23 ).Calcification appears as areas of low signal in all sequences ( 23 ). The radiological appearance of non-homogeneous signal or a prevalent cystic component should not be regarded as a proof of a craniopharyngioma, since macroadenomas can also sometimes be characterized by patterns resembling craniopharyngiomas. Moreover, the craniopharyngioma, without evidence of calcification, could be confused with different neoplasms such as hypothalamic/chiasmatic astrocytomas, germ cell tumors, or Langerhans cell histiocytosis ( 24 ). Figure 1. Resonance imaging T1-weighted sequences on coronal planes. Intra- and suprasellar craniopharyngioma in an 8-year-old boy presenting with reduced growth velocity and headache. This tumor has a total cystic component as shown by the hyper-intense spontaneous signal. (Kindly provided by S. Cirillo, II University of Naples) Figure 2. Resonance imaging T1-weighted sequences on sagittal planes. Intra- and suprasellar craniopharyngioma in an 8-year-old boy presenting with reduced growth velocity and headache. This tumor has a total cystic component as shown by the hyper-intense spontaneous signal.(Kindly provided by S. Cirillo, II University of Naples) Figure 3. Resonance imaging T1-weighted sequences on sagittal plane before IV gadolinium chelate administration. Extra-axial craniopharyngioma in the intra and suprasellar space, with non-homogenous signal due to calcifications and cysts, in a 7- year-old boy presenting with reduced growth velocity, sleepiness, and visual loss. (Kindly provided by S. Cirillo, II University of Naples). Figure 4. Resonance imaging T1-weighted sequences on sagittal plane after IV gadolinium chelate administration. Extra-axial craniopharyngioma in the intra and suprasellar space, with non-homogenous signal due to calcifications and cysts, in a 7- year-old
