Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


T1-weighted sequences on sagittal plane after IV gadolinium chelate administration. Extra-axial craniopharyngioma in the intra and suprasellar space, with non-homogenous signal due to calcifications and cysts, in a 7- year-old boy presenting with reduced growth velocity, sleepiness, and visual loss. After contrast medium non-homogenous enhancement of the solid component. (Kindly provided by S. Cirillo, II University of Naples). Treatment Strategy The treatment of craniopharyngioma is individualized on the basis of clinical presentation and several tumoral features such as dimension, location and extension, balancing the therapeutic radicality and the consequent risk of relapse with the onset of neurologic and endocrine complications. In instances where the onset of manifestation is an emergency with symptoms of raised intracranial pressure or rapid deterioration in visual function, to relieve these symptoms and prevent further visual deterioration initial surgical treatment, for hydrocephalus or tumor cyst decompression may be necessary prior to definitive treatment of the tumor ( 3 - 7 ). To date, surgery remains the first treatment option in pediatric craniopharyngiomas. Craniopharyngiomas are characterized by variability of localization and a relationship with important structures like the hypothalamus, optic chiasm, third ventricle, and vessels of the circle of Willis: for this reason, there is no paradigmatic surgical treatment ( 25 ). The main purpose of surgery is significant tumoral removal and the operative approach is generally dictated by localization and extent of the craniopharyngioma. Optimal initial localization, without involvement of the hypothalamus and optic chiasm, allows one to aim at radical resection preserving visual and hypothalamic functions; indeed, purely infra-diaphragmatic as well as supra-diaphragmatic/infra-chiasmatic tumors have a favorable surgical outcome with higher gross total resection rates in experienced hands. Otherwise, lesions extending within the third ventricle and lesions beyond 3cm in diameter, independent of their localization, are characterized by a greater complexity of treatment and a worse therapeutic outcome. In effect, radical resection and attempting total neoplastic removal results in significantly impaired functional outcomes ( 26 , 27 ) , so currently many prefer subtotal removal and subsequent radiotherapy. Aside from the traditional microscopic approach via the subfrontal or pterional craniotomy, transsphenoidal approaches and other minimal invasive surgical methods, e.g., catheter implantation into cystic formations of the tumor, have become popular ( 26 , 27 ). The transsphenoidal approach is appropriate for infra-diaphragmatic lesions, whereas tumors with suprasellar extensions require a transcranial approach. Nevertheless, the extended transsphenoidal approach has been used in lesion with supradiaphragmatic extension,
