Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


The transsphenoidal approach is appropriate for infra-diaphragmatic lesions, whereas tumors with suprasellar extensions require a transcranial approach. Nevertheless, the extended transsphenoidal approach has been used in lesion with supradiaphragmatic extension, showing a higher frequency of endocrine and neurological complications compared to the use of the same technique for an intra-diaphragmatic one ( 28 ). Radiotherapy is required in case of incomplete tumor removal, which is common for extra-sellar craniopharyngiomas, and can effectively be added to avoid recurrences, determining lower progression rates (21%) compared to subtotal surgery alone (71-90%) ( 28 ). In children, however, the benefit of any additional radiotherapeutic treatment should be balanced against the high risk of inducing hypopituitarism later in life. In a retrospective preliminary review aiming at evaluating the efficacy and toxicity of fractionated proton radiotherapy in the management of pediatric craniopharyngioma, local mass control was reported in 14 of 15 patients with few acute side effects and newly diagnosed panhypopituitarism, a cerebrovascular accident (from which the patient recovered), and an out-of-proton-field meningioma in a single patient who received previous radiotherapy as a long-term complications ( 8 , 29 ). Modern radiotherapy techniques allow a better conformation of the field of action, reducing the dose on the structures adjacent to the craniopharyngioma and the consequent adverse effects, particularly endocrine and visual ones. Currently, intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) and proton beam therapy (PBT) have shown encouraging results in the pediatric population ( 25 ). Further, therapeutic options for large cystic craniopharyngiomas are cyst drainage and intracystic instillation of Interferon-alpha, whereas instillation of bleomyicin is no longer used because of neurotoxicity due to leakage. Recently, a multicenter trial on the systemic use of peginterferon alpha-2b, administered subcutaneously, ended prematurely due to a lack of efficacy on the relapse prevention of the solid portion of the neoplasm ( 28 ). Relapse of craniopharyngioma occurs in about 35% of patients and the management of recurrence is influenced by previous therapy ( 30 ). Currently, attention focuses on the potential of molecular target therapy. Agents that effect the Wnt pathway are not currently available, whereas evaluation of the use of vemurafenib and dabrafenib (BRAF inhibitors) and the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib (a MEK inhibitor) are showing encouraging results ( 14 , 15 , 31 - 33 ). PITUITARY ADENOMAS Pituitary adenomas are the most common cause of pituitary disease in adults but they are less common in children, becoming increasingly
