Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


, 15 , 31 - 33 ). PITUITARY ADENOMAS Pituitary adenomas are the most common cause of pituitary disease in adults but they are less common in children, becoming increasingly more frequent during the adolescent years ( 34 - 37 ). The estimated incidence of pituitary adenomas in childhood is still unknown since most published series included patients with onset of symptoms before the age of 20 yrs as pediatric patients. Pituitary adenomas constitute less than 3% of supra-tentorial tumors in children, and 2.3-6% of all pituitary tumors treated surgically ( 34 , 35 , 38 , 39 ). The average annual incidence of pituitary adenomas in childhood has been estimated to be 0.1/million children ( 40 ). Among all supra-tentorial tumors treated during a 25-year period in a center, pituitary adenomas were diagnosed in only 1.2% of children ( 41 ). Pituitary carcinomas are rare in adults and extremely rare in children ( 42 ). The first, and probably unique, case of pituitary carcinoma in a child was described by Guzel et al. in 2008. A 9-year-old girl, with an history of hydrocephalus treated with ventriculoperitoneal shunt 3 years before, complained of progressive visual and gait disturbance, headache, and speech difficulties. Neurological examination revealed visual loss, papilledema, and dysarthria. Magnetic resonance revealed a large tumor mass in frontal region, multiple lesions in sellar-parasellar region, posterior fossa, and multiple intraspinal metastatic lesions. Gross total resection of frontal mass was performed, and the histopathological and immunohistochemical exams revealed a pituitary carcinoma. Despite of the post-operative use of temozolomide, the patient died after 2 months without response to this therapy ( 43 ). There is no consensus on the alleged greater invasiveness of pituitary adenomas in children than in adults, while a slightly greater prevalence in females has been reported ( 7 , 34 - 36 , 40 ). However, gender distribution reflects the relative contribution of the two main groups, PRL- and ACTH- secreting adenomas, which predominate in most series reported. Prolactinoma is indeed the most frequent adenoma histological type in children, followed by the corticotrophinoma and the somatotrophinoma ( 44 ). Non-functioning pituitary adenomas, TSH-secreting, and gonadotrophin-secreting adenomas are very rare in children, accounting for only 3-6% of all pituitary tumors. ACTH-secreting adenomas have an earlier onset and predominate in the pre-pubertal period, where interestingly male cases are more frequent, while GH-secreting adenomas are very rare before puberty, except in
