Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


and Diagnosis PRL-secreting adenomas are usually diagnosed at the time of puberty or in the post-pubertal period, and clinical manifestations vary in keeping with the age and sex of the child ( 34 - 36 , 44 , 50 , 51 ). Pre-pubertal children generally present with a combination of headache, visual disturbance, growth failure, and amenorrhea ( Table 1 ). Growth failure is not, however, a common symptom: in fact, in two different retrospective studies, 4% of 25 patients ( 51 ) and 10% of 20 patients ( 53 ) were reported to have short stature at the diagnosis of prolactinoma. Weight gain has been reported to occur in patients with hyperprolactinemia ( 54 - 56 ) but never described in children. In a re-evaluation of the young/adolescent patients with hyperprolactinemia admitted to the University Federico II from January 1st 1995 to December 31st 2004 ( 44 , 57 ), short stature was found in 7 of 50 patients (14%), five girls and two boys, and another two patients, one girl and one boy, had their height below or at the 5th percentile and another 8 (3 girls) had their height between the 5th and 10th percentile. The height percentiles in the patients with extrasellar/invasive macroprolactinomas were lower than in those having smaller tumors ( Fig. 5 ). Additionally, all girls presented with oligomenorrhoea or amenorrhea; most also had galactorrhea; gynecomastia was present in 12 of 21 boys (57.1%). The most common symptoms of prolactinomas in the peripubertal age are those associated with deficiency of the pituitary-gonadal axis. Menstrual irregularities in girls are common in all types of pituitary adenomas, except those causing Nelson’s syndrome ( 58 ). Galactorrhea should be carefully investigated by expressing the breast, because teenagers may not spontaneously refer to it as a symptom, and frequently it is not spontaneous. Headache and visual field defects predominate in patients bearing large adenomas ( Table 2 ). Figure 5. Height (shown as mean percentiles for age) and Body Mass Index in 50 patients with prolactinomas diagnosed before 20 years of age. Data from ref. ( 57 ). Table 2. Presentation of Prolactinomas in Children and Adolescents: The Two-Decade Experience of the Department of Endocrinology and Oncology, University “Federico II” of Naples. Data from reference ( 57 ) View in own window Microadenomas Enclosed Macroadenomas Extrasellar and/or Invasive Macroadenomas Number 20 21 9 Girls/Boys 15/5 11/10 3/6 Age
