Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


Fig. 7 ). The use of drugs to increase bone mass, such as amino bisphosphonates, has not been investigated. Figure 7. Bone density (BMD) measured as g/cm2 or z-score in 22 patients with prolactinoma (individual data shown as solid circles) and their sex- and age-matched controls (data shown as mean ± SD). Data from ref. 52 , modified from ref. ( 57 ). The diagnosis of prolactinoma is based on the measurement of serum PRL levels and neuroradiological imaging. The differential diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia should consider any process interfering with dopamine (DA) synthesis, its transport to the pituitary gland, or its action at lactotroph DA-receptors. A single measurement of PRL levels is unreliable since PRL secretion is markedly influenced by physical and emotional stress. Basal PRL levels greater than 200ng/l are diagnostic, whereas levels between 100 and 200ng/ml and the presence of a mass requires additional investigation to rule out mass an effect of a non-functioning adenoma versus a prolactin- secreting adenoma. Some peculiar conditions should, however, be remembered ( 64 ). Serial serum PRL measurements at 0, 30 and 60 min after the needle was inserted into an antecubital vein is a valuable and simple measure to identify stress- related hyperprolactinemia in order to avoid diagnostic pitfalls and unnecessary treatments. It is important to exclude from the assay the monomeric PRL forms, big-prolactin (b-PRL), and big big- prolactin (bb-PRL); the latter may contain immunoglobulin (IgG) ( 65 ). These molecular complexes are seldom active but may be measured by the PRL assay. The absence of a clinical syndrome of hyperprolactinemia will suggest the presence of macroprolactin. The ‘high-dose hook effect’ can be a serious problem in the differential diagnosis between prolactinomas and non-functioning adenomas (NFPA): it is mandatory, in these cases and in every patient with a pituitary mass and hyperprolactinemia, to dilute PRL samples routinely (1:10 and 1:100 dilutions) or to use alternative methods to immunoradiometric assays. The difference between macroprolactinomas and ‘pseudoprolactinomas’ is essential to provide a correct treatment approach ( 66 ). This problem is, however, of little relevance in children and adolescents, as non-functioning macroadenomas are very rare at this age. Treatment Strategy The goals of prolactinoma treatment are the control of PRL excess and its clinical consequences, and the removal of pituitary adenoma. Today dopamine-agonists (e.g., bromocriptine, quinagolide, or cabergoline) should be considered the first treatment approach for pediatric prolactinomas ( 34 , 44
