Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


its clinical consequences, and the removal of pituitary adenoma. Today dopamine-agonists (e.g., bromocriptine, quinagolide, or cabergoline) should be considered the first treatment approach for pediatric prolactinomas ( 34 , 44 , 51 - 53 , 59 , 60 ). According to a recent study, dopamine-agonists should be started immediately at prolactinoma diagnosis even in case of severe visual impairment. If there are no improvement in visual defects and serum prolactin levels in the first 24-hours, early surgical treatment should be considered to avoid further visual deterioration and radiological signs of progression. The efficient use of dopamine-agonists reduces the necessity of surgical approach ( 52 ). Situations requiring first-line neurosurgery typically occur in invasive macroadenomas: in these cases, the aim is resecting the tumor to relief the mass effect. Anyway, in these cases surgical cure usually cannot be obtained so medical therapy after debulking neurosurgery is required, with the benefit of a better response to anti-dopaminergic therapy due to the cytoreduction ( 67 ). Treatment with dopamine-agonists is effective in normalizing PRL levels and shrinking tumor mass in the majority of adult patients with prolactinomas ( 34 , 44 , 51 - 53 , 59 , 60 ), preserving pituitary function and visual field in most cases ( 51 ). In children and adolescents, bromocriptine has been used successfully by several investigators ( 51 , 68 - 71 ). In our series, bromocriptine at doses ranging from 2.5-20 mg/day orally normalized prolactin in 38.5% of patients ( 51 ). In the remaining patients, 10 with macro- ( Fig. 8 ) and 6 with microprolactinoma ( Fig. 9 ), PRL levels remained above the normal range despite a progressive increase of the dose of the drug. However, the possibility that some patients were indeed not taking bromocriptine appropriately cannot be ruled out as poor compliance to any chronic treatment is a well-known phenomenon in children and adolescents. In addition, some patients required drug discontinuation for intolerable side effects regarding the gastrointestinal tract. Both quinagolide, at doses ranging from 0.075-0.6 mg/day, or cabergoline, at doses ranging from 0.5-3.5 mg/week orally, two selective DA receptor subtype-2 selective agonists, have been reported to be effective in reducing PRL secretion and tumor size in most adult patients with prolactinoma, even in those previously shown to be poorly responsive or intolerant to bromocriptine ( 57 ). There are now data on cabergoline, showing that it is more
