Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


patients with prolactinoma, even in those previously shown to be poorly responsive or intolerant to bromocriptine ( 57 ). There are now data on cabergoline, showing that it is more effective and often better tolerated than bromocriptine, due to less and milder side effects. For these reasons cabergoline should be the initial treatment of choice. Figure 8. Serum PRL response to different dopaminergic drugs, namely bromocriptine (BRC), quinagolide (CV), and cabergoline (CAB) in 15 children with macroprolactinomas. The shaded area represents the normal PRL range. Data are shown as nadir PRL values at diagnosis and during treatment. Data from ref. 51 . Figure 9. Serum PRL response to different dopaminergic drugs, namely bromocriptine (BRC), quinagolide (CV), and cabergoline (CAB) in 11 children with microprolactinoma. The shaded area represents the normal range. Data are shown as nadir PRL values at diagnosis and during treatment. Data from ref. ( 51 ). Of our 50 cases ( 57 ), cabergoline induced normalization of PRL levels in all but 3 cases. Two of the three patients had large extrasellar macroprolactinomas (tumor volume of 4579 mm3 and 1983 mm3 respectively) with baseline PRL levels of 3300 μg/L and 1700 μg/L, respectively that progressively decreased but did not normalize after 2-7 years of treatment. Tumor shrinkage by 93.2% and 54.5% was seen in both patients. The third patient had a microprolactinoma (tumor volume=123.6 mm3) with a baseline PRL levels of 500 μg/L that progressively decreased to 88 μg/L at the last follow-up after 6 years of treatment and achieved tumor shrinkage by 53.9% ( 57 ). Only one case of pituitary apoplexy following cabergoline treatment in a young patient has been reported so far ( 72 ). Twelve of our 50 patients (one with enclosed macroprolactinoma and 11 with microprolactinoma) achieved the disappearance of the tumor so that they were withdrawn from treatment ( 57 ). In our former series, tumor shrinkage was observed in most patients with macroadenomas and even in some with microprolactinomas ( Fig. 10 ). The easy weekly administration makes cabergoline an excellent therapeutic approach to children/adolescents with prolactinoma. Cabergoline has been reported to be tolerated, even at rather high doses ( 73 ). Relevant safety issues to be considered in patients treated with cabergoline are possible cardiac valve derangement ( 74 - 76 ) and psychiatric adverse effects (mood changes or obsessive behavior including hypersexuality). These phenomena were first described in
