Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


treated with cabergoline are possible cardiac valve derangement ( 74 - 76 ) and psychiatric adverse effects (mood changes or obsessive behavior including hypersexuality). These phenomena were first described in patients with Parkinson’s disease, who require higher doses of the dopamine agonists than patients with prolactinomas, but has now been documented in patients with pituitary adenomas as well. Cardiac safety of treatment with cabergoline in prolactinomas, even long-term, has been demonstrated in adults ( 77 , 78 ), so use in children should also be safe, although we need to be aware of cumulative dose builds up if treatment has been started in childhood. Knowledge about psychiatric consequences of dopamine agonists used in pediatric prolactinomas is still scant. Psychotic symptoms during bromocriptine therapy were observed in a child by Hoffman et al . ( 52 ). Bulwer et al . also described a case of an adolescent male with a giant prolactinoma who developed impulsive/compulsive sexual symptoms during cabergoline treatment. These were diagnosed as an iatrogenic effect, a hypothesis supported by symptomatic improvement during a one-month trial off cabergoline ( 79 ). Despite the rarity of both pediatric prolactinomas and development of psychiatric side effects of dopamine agonists, this important aspect it needs to be further investigated. In patients with tumors resistant to dopamine agonists as well as in those showing severe neurological symptoms at diagnosis, surgery is indicated. Radiotherapy should be limited to the cases with aggressive tumors, non-responsive to dopamine agonists, because of the risk of neurological damage, hypopituitarism, and second malignancies later in the lives of these patients ( 44 , 51 - 53 , 57 ). Figure 10. Tumor mass response after bromocriptine, quinagolide, or cabergoline treatment in 15 children with macro- and 11 with microprolactinoma. Data are shown as number of cases with empty sella; greater than 50% tumor shrinkage; 20-50% tumor shrinkage or less than 20% tumor shrinkage shown as unmodified tumor volume. Data from ref. ( 57 ). ACTH-SECRETING ADENOMAS Cushing's disease (CD), caused by an ACTH-secreting pituitary corticotroph adenoma, is the commonest cause of Cushing’s syndrome (CS) in children over 5 years of age ( 80 , 81 ). CS can occur throughout childhood and adolescence; however, different etiologies are commonly associated with particular age groups with CD being the commonest cause after the pre-school years. The peak incidence of pediatric CD is during adolescence ( 81 ). A macroadenoma is rarely
