Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


with particular age groups with CD being the commonest cause after the pre-school years. The peak incidence of pediatric CD is during adolescence ( 81 ). A macroadenoma is rarely the cause of CD in children; pediatric CD is almost always caused by a pituitary microadenoma with diameter <5 mm with a significant predominance of males in pre-pubertal patients ( 80 , 81 ). The molecular basis of pediatric Cushing’s disease is complex. Recently, pathological variants of USP8 gene have been found in an elevated number of ACTH-secreting adenomas; in the pediatric population USP8 mutated adenomas are clinically distinguished from wild-type adenomas for older age at diagnosis, female preponderance, and more frequent recurrence. In USP8 wild-type adenomas, BRAF and USP48 mutations have been noted. In pediatric corticotrophinomas, the presence of copy number variations, indicating chromosomal instability, has been related to larger size and more frequent invasion of the cavernous sinus ( 82 ). There are other extremely rare germline conditions that can predispose to the development of pediatric corticotrophinoma such as DICER1 , CABLES1 , and CDKN1B mutations. DICER1 syndrome is characterized by pituitary blastomas, and manifest itself in early infancy with a highly deadly Cushing’s syndrome. CABLES1 is another potential ACTH-secreting adenoma predisposition gene, whose mutation has been found in very few pediatric cases. CDKN1B mutation occurs in the MEN4 syndrome, in which pituitary tumors arise usually in adults, as no gene mutations have been found analyzing children bearing a pituitary adenoma ( 82 ). Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis The clinical manifestations of CD are mostly the consequence of excessive cortisol production. The clinical presentation is highly variable, with signs and symptoms that can range from subtle to obvious ( Table 1 ). The diagnosis is generally delayed since a decrease in growth rate may be the only symptom for a long time. Growth failure in CD may be due to a decrease of free IGF-I levels and/or a direct negative effects of cortisol on the growth plate ( 83 , 84 ). In a series of 50 children with CD, Magiakou et al. ( 85 ) found that obesity and growth retardation were the most frequent symptoms (in 90 and 83% of patients, respectively). Weight gain and stunted growth were the most frequent symptoms also in the series by Weber et al. ( 86 ) and Devoe et al. ( 87 ). The skin of the face is
