Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


growth were the most frequent symptoms also in the series by Weber et al. ( 86 ) and Devoe et al. ( 87 ). The skin of the face is plethoric, and atrophic striae can be found in the abdomen, legs, and arms. Muscular weakness, hypertension, and osteoporosis, especially of the spine, are common. Results on BMD or bone metabolism in children with CD have been reported only in a limited number of patients in a few studies ( 86 , 88 ). Consistent with the findings in adult patients, marked osteopenia was also found in affected children. The bone loss is more evident in trabecular than in cortical bone ( 89 ). As compared to patients with adult-onset disease, those with childhood-onset CD have a similar degree of bone loss at the lumbar spine and similar increased bone resorption ( 90 ). In a study conducted in 10 patients with childhood-onset and 18 with adulthood-onset CD, BMD at the lumbar spine was significantly lower than in sex and age-matched controls ( Fig. 11 ) ( 90 ). Osteoporosis was found in 16 patients (57.1%) (8 adolescent (80%) and 8 adult (44·4%) patients) while osteopenia was found in 12 patients (42.8%) (2 adolescent (20%) and 10 adult (55·6%) patients) ( 90 ). Additionally, we have reported that two years of cortisol normalization improved but did recover bone mass and turnover neither in children nor in adult patients with CD ( 91 ). This negative finding suggests that a longer period of time is necessary to restore bone mass after the cure of CD and, thus, other therapeutic approaches may be indicated to limit bone loss and/or accelerate bone recovery in these patients ( 87 ). In a study Lodish et al. ( 92 ) analyzed retrospectively, 35 children with CD; in these patients, vertebral BMD was more severely affected than femoral BMD and this effect was independent of degree or duration of hypercortisolism. BMD for the lumbar spine improved significantly after TSS; osteopenia in this group may be reversible. Complete reversal to normal BMD was not seen. Figure 11. Z score of bone density at lumbar spine in 10 patients with childhood onset Cushing’s disease compared to 10 healthy adolescents of matched sex- and age and in 18 patients with adult-onset Cushing's disease compared to 18 healthy adults matched sex- and age. Data from ref. ( 90 ). Hypercortisolism leads
