Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


of matched sex- and age and in 18 patients with adult-onset Cushing's disease compared to 18 healthy adults matched sex- and age. Data from ref. ( 90 ). Hypercortisolism leads to decreased bone formation through direct or indirect inhibition of osteoblast function, while bone resorption is normal or increased in patients with CD ( 90 , 93 ). Hypercortisolism is known to be associated with loss of skeletal mass and can lead to increased vertebral fracture risk ( 94 , 95 ). It should also be noted that in children with CD the direct negative effect of hypercortisolism on bone formation is further worsened by concomitant hypogonadism and GH deficiency, both of which are associated with decreased BMD. Children with CD often have musculoskeletal weakness and can have decreased weight-bearing activity that may contribute to impaired BMD. Children with CD may also have impaired carbohydrate tolerance, while overt diabetes mellitus is uncommon. Excessive adrenal androgens may cause acne and excessive hair growth, or premature sexual development in the first decade of life. On the other hand, hypercortisolism may cause pubertal delay in adolescent patients. Peculiarly, young patients with CD may present neuropsychiatric symptoms which differ from those of adult patients. Frequently, they tend to be obsessive and are high performers at school. The differential diagnosis of CD includes adrenal tumors, ectopic ACTH production, and the very rare ectopic CRH-producing tumors. However, ectopic ACTH secretion is extremely rare in the pediatric age. In a child/adolescent with suspected CD the diagnosis is based on measurement of basal and stimulated levels of cortisol and ACTH. Measurement of 24-h urinary free cortisol is elevated, and a low dose of dexamethasone (15 μg/Kg) at midnight does not induce suppression of morning serum cortisol concentrations as in normal subjects ( 96 ). Loperamide, an opioid agonist, lowers cortisol secretion and has been proposed as a reliable screening test for hypercortisolism in children and adolescents ( 97 ) , but has not achieved popular use. Suppression of the spontaneous circadian variations of serum cortisol is another feature of CD. Suppression of cortisol by more than 50% after high-dose dexamethasone (150 μg/kg) given at midnight will confirm that hypercortisolism is due to an ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma ( 97 ). Midnight salivary cortisol measurements have been suggested as an alternative non-invasive screening test in the diagnosis of CS in adults( 98 ), but is there is not much experience
