Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


). Midnight salivary cortisol measurements have been suggested as an alternative non-invasive screening test in the diagnosis of CS in adults( 98 ), but is there is not much experience of its use in this age group. All patients should undergo pituitary MRI with the administration of gadolinium, but since ACTH- secreting pituitary adenomas are significantly smaller than all other types of adenomas, often having a diameter of 2mm or less ( 99 ), pituitary MRI may fail to visualize the tumor. In most instances the diagnosis of CD can be made by initial clinical and laboratory data ( Fig.12 ). Bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling has a high specificity, so that no patient with extra-pituitary CS runs the risk of being submitted to transsphenoidal surgery, but it carries a significant number of false negative results ( 99 ). This procedure can also be technically difficult in children, and the risk of morbidity from surgery and/or anesthesia must be considered. Lateralization of the adenoma can be of greater help to the surgeon than pituitary scanning ( 100 ). Therefore, bilateral venous sampling should only be performed in centers with wide experience in the technical procedure as well as in the interpretation of the results. If a patient without anomalous venous drainage patterns exhibits a lateralizing ACTH gradient of 2:1 or greater ( 101 , 102 ), removal of the appropriate half of the anterior pituitary gland will be curative in 80% of cases ( 99 ). Kunwar and Wilson ( 99 ) reported that in the presence of a negative surgical exploration, a guide to the probable location of the adenoma is invaluable, and under the right circumstances, a hemi-hypophysectomy is appropriate and successful in most cases. Figure 12. The diagnosis of Cushing’s syndrome. LDST, low dose suppression test; HDST, high dose suppression test; CRH, corticotrophin releasing hormone. Data from ref. ( 36 ). Treatment Strategy The goal of the treatment of Cushing’s disease are normalization of cortisol levels, reversion of hypercortisolism-related signs and symptoms, and pituitary adenoma removal. Transsphenoidal adenomectomy is the treatment of choice for ACTH-secreting adenomas in childhood and adolescence, because of the greater prevalence of microadenomas in this population that allows for total tumor removal and thus disease remission. Radiotherapy could be the first-line treatment in children with surgical contraindications ( 103 ). Transsphenoidal microsurgery is considered successful when it is followed by remission of signs
