Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


thus disease remission. Radiotherapy could be the first-line treatment in children with surgical contraindications ( 103 ). Transsphenoidal microsurgery is considered successful when it is followed by remission of signs and symptoms of hypercortisolism and by normalization of laboratory values. Surgical excision is successful in the majority of children, with initial remission rates of 70-98% and long-term cure of 50-98% in most studies ( 38 , 39 , 80 , 81 , 84 , 86 , 87 , 104 - 109 ). The success rate decreases when the patients are followed-up for more than 5 years ( 84 , 86 , 87 ), and the outcome cannot be predicted either by preoperative or immediate postoperative tests ( 87 ). Surgical cure was found in 59% of 27 patients over a 21-year period, with a higher age favoring cure, as did an identifiable tumor seen at surgery and positive histology ( 110 ). Several conditions are indeed predictors of Cushing’s disease recurrence in children: older age at the time of disease symptoms, younger age at the time of surgery, larger tumor diameter, and mutations in USP8 gene in resected tumor tissue ( 111 ).The recurrence rate of Cushing’s disease in children in about 40% in 10 years ( 67 ). Noteworthy in pediatric patients there are several technical difficulties with the transsphenoidal surgical approach due to a different anatomic conformation in children compared to adults. In children, the smaller size of the sella and pituitary may interfere with surgical maneuvers, in addition to the difficult identification of surgical landmarks due to different anatomic variations of sellar region such as the shorter intercarotid distance and piriform aperture, and the low pneumatization of sphenoid bone. Furthermore, in children with skull base lesions short nasal-sellar and vomer-clivus distances and smaller transsphenoidal angles than healthy children have been noted ( 112 ). Surgery is usually followed by adrenal insufficiency and patients require hydrocortisone replacement for 6-12 months. After normalization of cortisol levels, resumption of normal growth or even catch-up growth can be observed. Generally, final height is compromised compared to target height ( 68 , 85 ). Johnston et al. ( 113 ) have, however, reported that some children do achieve a normal final stature. However, even if catch-up and favorable long-term growth can be achieved after treatment for Cushing's disease, post-treatment GH deficiency is frequent ( 114 ). Lebrethon et al . ( 114
