Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


However, even if catch-up and favorable long-term growth can be achieved after treatment for Cushing's disease, post-treatment GH deficiency is frequent ( 114 ). Lebrethon et al . ( 114 ) demonstrated that early hGH replacement may contribute to a favorable outcome on final stature ( Fig.13 ). A re-analysis of this series confirmed that pediatric Cushing’s disease patients achieve a normal final stature provided that replacement therapy including GH is correctly performed ( 115 ). Normal body composition is more difficult to achieve. Many patients remain obese and BMI SDS was elevated at mean interval of 3.9 years after cure in 14 patients ( 115 ). Rarely, surgery may induce panhypopituitarism, permanent diabetes insipidus, and cerebrospinal fluid leak ( 46 ); transient diabetes insipidus, and cerebrospinal fluid leak occur more frequently in pediatric patients than adults ( 116 ). Probably such a higher prevalence may be due to technical difficulties related to the anatomy of pediatric sellar region. Cure is more likely to be achieved and morbidity is low if the surgery is performed by an experienced neurosurgeon, by analogy with other studies performed in acromegaly ( 113 ). Figure 13. GH treatment in children with Cushing’s disease improves the height gain. Upper graph: Evaluation of growth (change (D) in height SD score) in eight patients during hGH treatment. Bottom graph: Individual changes of height standard deviation score before and after GH replacement. 1= At diagnosis; 2= Before GH treatment; 3= After 1 year of GH treatment; 4= Final height. Data drawn from ref. ( 114 ). In recent times, the endonasal approach, consisting in a direct access of neurosurgeon to the sellar region through the patient’s nares, has also been used in pediatric Cushing’s disease, usually using an endoscope aiming to improve surgical visualization. However, because of small patients’ nares, an expert neurosurgeon is required ( 112 ). Nowadays, while there is little evidence of this less invasive technique are available, it seems to be an effective treatment for pediatric CD, without relapses observed in treated patients ( 109 , 117 , 118 ). However, no studies comparing microscopic and endoscopic endonasal technique in pediatric pituitary adenomas are available ( 67 ). The treatment modality in patients who have relapses after transsphenoidal adenomectomy is still controversial. Some authors recommend repeat surgery ( 84 , 119 ), while others favor radiotherapy ( 120 , 121 ). Transsphenoidal surgery is
