Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


have relapses after transsphenoidal adenomectomy is still controversial. Some authors recommend repeat surgery ( 84 , 119 ), while others favor radiotherapy ( 120 , 121 ). Transsphenoidal surgery is actually suggested as a second-line treatment in recurrent or persistent CD patients ( 103 ), and is required in case of incomplete initial tumor removal, in patients with tumor reappearance after initial complete surgical resection, or even in persistent patients in the days immediately after first TSS aiming to optimize therapeutic efficacy ( 116 ). The efficacy of a second surgical treatment in Cushing’s pediatric disease is still unclear, due to the presence in literature of only single case reports, or case series. Interestingly, in one of this case series Lonser et al. reported an initial disease remission in 93% of patients ( 122 ). Radiotherapy techniques currently used for pediatric corticotrophinomas are divided in two groups: conventional radiotherapy (RT) and stereotactic RT. Conventional RT, in which small, daily radiation doses are delivered to the target tumor over a 25-30 days period, and stereotactic RT, where high radiation doses are delivered to a more precisely identified target area, minimizing radiation exposure to the surrounding central nervous system structures. Stereotactic RT could be performed as a single treatment, called stereotactic radiosurgery such as gamma-knife radiosurgery, or as a fractionated treatment, called stereotactic conformal radiotherapy. Disease remission using conventional radiotherapy is reached by about 80% of pediatric corticotrophinoma ( 113 , 121 , 123 - 127 ). Conventional RT is a safe treatment, as no nerve damage or other major complications were observed in treated patients. Compared to adults with Cushing’s disease treated with Conventional RT as a second-line treatment, this seems to be slightly more effective in pediatric corticotrophinoma ( 116 ). There are only two studies concerning gamma-knife radiosurgery in the pediatric population, reporting a remission rate of 87.5% and 79.2%, respectively ( 128 , 129 ). Radiotherapy usually requires time before reaching its maximum result, and for this reason pharmacotherapy could be considered as a temporary treatment until this achievement ( 103 , 116 ). Of note, hypothalamo-pituitary dysfunction is an early and frequent complication of radiation ( 87 ). For the medical therapy of Cushing’s disease, three pharmacological categories are currently available: pituitary-directed agents, adrenal-directed agents, and glucocorticoid receptor antagonists. Scientific evidence regarding their use in pediatrics is scant, and there are no data on the use of
