Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


categories are currently available: pituitary-directed agents, adrenal-directed agents, and glucocorticoid receptor antagonists. Scientific evidence regarding their use in pediatrics is scant, and there are no data on the use of mifepristone in pediatric patients. Data on the use of etomidate, an adrenal-directed agent, in the emergency management of severe hypercortisolemia seems to be promising. There are at least 3 case reports demonstrating that intravenous infusion of etomidate at doses ranging from 1 to 3.5 mg/h, with constant dose titration according to serum levels, adding contemporaneous hydrocortisone infusion at 0.25-0.5 mg/kg/h to prevent adrenal insufficiency is a safe and effective approach in patients with very severe Cushing’s disease prior to bilateral adrenalectomy ( 130 - 132 ). Moreover, experience with cabergoline for CD in childhood and adolescence is also limited ( 133 ). Bilateral adrenalectomy is actually a third-line treatment, employed in cases of surgical and radiotherapeutic failures. This therapeutic approach has gradually lost his importance in the context of pediatric corticotrophinoma treatment, due to the side effects and the growing evidence of pharmacological treatment as valid therapeutic alternative ( 116 , 119 ). It is interesting that in pediatric Cushing’s disease patients, in contrast to adult ones, there does not appear to be complete recovery from cognitive function abnormalities despite rapid reversibility of cerebral atrophy ( 134 ). GH-SECRETING ADENOMAS GH excess derives from a GH-secreting adenoma in over 98% of cases. In adulthood, these adenomas are relatively rare with an incidence of 1.1 new cases/100,000 individuals per year, and a prevalence from 3 to >13 cases per 100,000 individuals according to the country under study ( 135 ) , while gigantism is extremely rare with a little bit more than 400 reported cases to date ( 136 , 137 ). In childhood, GH-secreting adenomas account for 5-15% of all pituitary adenomas ( 138 ). In less than 2% of the cases excessive GH secretion may depend on a hypothalamic or ectopic GH releasing hormone (GHRH)-producing tumor (gangliocytoma, bronchial or pancreatic carcinoid), which causes somatotroph hyperplasia or a well-defined adenoma ( 139 - 142 ). Nowadays, approximately 50% of patients with pituitary gigantism have a known genetic mutation causing the disease, so genetic counselling should be considered ( 143 ). In this genetic context, pituitary gigantism could be part of syndromic, or non-syndromic disease. Recently, non-syndromic pituitary gigantism has been described due to aryl hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein ( AIP )
