Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


In this genetic context, pituitary gigantism could be part of syndromic, or non-syndromic disease. Recently, non-syndromic pituitary gigantism has been described due to aryl hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein ( AIP ) gene mutations and Xq26.3 microduplication causing X-linked acrogigantism (XLAG) ( 144 - 146 ). AIP mutations occur in about 40% of gigantism cases, sporadically or in the setting of familial isolated pituitary adenoma (FIPA)., and patients with truncating AIP mutation had a younger age at disease onset and diagnosis, compared to patients with non-truncating AIP mutation ( 146 ). Typically, AIP -mutated adenomas bear several features: early disease is manifest usually in the second decade of life, the majority of the cases are GH- or mixed GH/prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas ( 144 , 146 ), the tumors are large and invasive, often with suprasellar extension, resistance to first-generation SSA treatment is common, thus require a multimodal treatment and pituitary apoplexy can often occur, especially in pediatric patients ( 82 , 137 , 146 ). Interestingly, AIP- mutated patients with GH excess had been shown to be taller than the non - mutated counterparts ( 147 ). XLAG represents 10% of the cases of pre-pubertal gigantism ( 143 ). X-LAG is due to a submicroscopic chromosome Xq26.3 duplications that include GPR101 gene, which is differentially overexpressed in the affected pituitary adenoma ( 82 , 148 ). Duplications are germline in females and somatic in sporadic males with variable levels of mosaicism in the latter ( 82 ). Somatic mosaicism occurs in sporadic males but not in females with XLAG syndrome, although the clinical characteristics of the disease are similarly severe in both sexes ( 148 ). Three rare case of families in which the germline duplication was transmitted from the affected mother to son have been described, and all carriers of the duplication had gigantism ( 149 ). The disease often occurs during the first year of life, mostly in females and as sporadic disease. Regarding the characteristics of the pituitary gland at diagnosis in these patients, most of them harbor macroadenomas, generally mixed GH- and PRL-secreting tumors, while a minority have hyperplasia alone ( 82 , 137 , 145 ). A pattern of multiple microadenomatous foci against a hyperplastic background has also been described ( 82 ). Noteworthy is the peculiar presence of acromegalic features in these pediatric patients, and a poor response to SSA treatment such as AIP-mutated somatotrophinomas (
