Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


also been described ( 82 ). Noteworthy is the peculiar presence of acromegalic features in these pediatric patients, and a poor response to SSA treatment such as AIP-mutated somatotrophinomas ( 82 ). Concerning syndromic pituitary gigantism, Carney Complex and McCune-Albright syndromes contribute to gigantism approximately in 1% and 5% respectively, where pituitary hyperplasia or a distinct pituitary adenoma could be found in the pituitary gland ( 82 , 143 ). GH-secreting adenomas may also occur in MEN1 syndrome and cause 1% of cases of pituitary gigantism; the possibility of pituitary hyperplasia due to GHRH hypersecretion from neuroendocrine tumor should be considered in this syndromic context ( 143 ). Somatotrophinomas could also be one of the manifestations of the MEN4 syndrome and the pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma and pituitary adenoma association ( 82 ) ( 151 ). GH excess and consequent gigantism could be a rare manifestation of NF-1 syndrome, characterized by the presence of optic pathway gliomas but not pituitary adenomas, in addition to the characteristic syndromic manifestations. In this case it can be speculated that GH secretion could be either due to loss of somatostatinergic inhibition or presence of excessive GHRH secretion due to disrupted regulation of GHRH by the optic pathway tumor ( 82 ). Clinical Presentation and Diagnosis In adults, chronic GH and IGF-1 excess causes acromegaly, which is characterized by local bone overgrowth, while in children and adolescents leads to gigantism. The associated secondary hypogonadism delays epiphysial closure, thus allowing continued long-bone growth ( Fig.14 ). However, the two disorders may be considered along a spectrum of GH excess, with principal manifestations determined by the developmental stage during which such excess originates ( Table 1 ). Supporting this model has been the observation of clinical overlap between the two entities, with approximately 10% of acromegalics exhibiting tall stature ( 150 ), and the majority of giants eventually demonstrating features of acromegaly ( 151 ). Gigantism predominantly affects males (78%), is generally characterized at diagnosis by the presence of a macroadenoma, often invading surrounding structures (54.5%), and prolactin co-secretion is present in 34% of pituitary adenomas causing pituitary gigantism ( 143 ). As demonstrated, older age at diagnosis, and the consequent longer time of exposure to higher GH and IGF-1 levels than normal, is associated with an increased prevalence of many pathological signs and symptoms, particularly those related to longer-term exposure such as joint disease, facial changes, skin changes, and
