Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


levels than normal, is associated with an increased prevalence of many pathological signs and symptoms, particularly those related to longer-term exposure such as joint disease, facial changes, skin changes, and diabetes mellitus ( 136 , 143 ). In contrast to adults where there is an increased prevalence of cardiovascular, respiratory, neoplastic, and metabolic complications ( 136 , 141 , 152 ), there is no report of similar complications in childhood. In our study, we did not find any patient with hypertension, arrhythmias, diabetes or glucose intolerance; as expected, however, some degree of insulin resistance and enhanced ß-cell function was observed in our patients at diagnosis ( 153 ). In a study conducted in six patients with gigantism, Bondanelli et al. ( 154 ) showed that 33% of giant patients had left ventricular hypertrophy and inadequate diastolic filling, 16.7% had isolated intraventricular septum thickening and impaired glucose metabolism. In acromegaly, clinical features develop insidiously and progressively over many years and in modern epidemiological studies the average delay between the onset of symptoms and diagnosis is approximately 5 years ( 135 ), while the presentation of gigantism is usually dramatic and the diagnosis is straightforward. All growth parameters are affected although not necessarily symmetrically. Mild-to-moderate obesity occurs frequently ( 138 ), and macrocephaly has been reported to precede linear and weight acceleration in at least one patient ( 155 ). All patients also had coarse facial features, disproportionately large hands and feet with thick fingers and toes, frontal bossing and a prominent jaw ( 138 ). In girls menstrual irregularity can be present ( 156 ) while glucose intolerance and diabetes mellitus are rare. Tall stature and/or acceleration of growth velocity was observed in 10 of 13 patients. Headache, visual field defects, excessive sweating, hypogonadism, and joint disorders may also be present ( 143 ). Several cases of ketoacidosis have been reported( 157 , 158 ). The diagnosis of acromegaly and gigantism is usually clinical, and can be readily confirmed by measuring GH levels, which in more than 90% of patients are above 10 μg/l ( 139 - 141 ). The oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) is the simplest and most specific dynamic test for both the diagnosis and the evaluation of the optimal control of GH excess ( 139 - 141 ). In healthy subjects, the OGTT (75-100 grams) suppresses GH levels below 1 μg/l after 2 hours, while in patients
