Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


the optimal control of GH excess ( 139 - 141 ). In healthy subjects, the OGTT (75-100 grams) suppresses GH levels below 1 μg/l after 2 hours, while in patients with GH-secreting adenoma such suppression is lacking, and a paradoxical GH increase is frequently observed. GH excess should be confirmed by elevated circulating IGF-I concentrations for age and gender ( 159 , 160 ). The assay of IGF-I binding protein-3 is conversely not useful for diagnosis nor for the follow-up of the patients ( 161 , 162 ). The presence of different GH isoforms in patients with gigantism/acromegaly may represent a diagnostic problem ( 163 ). A greater sensitivity of the GH assay may facilitate the distinction between patients and normal subjects, as shown by the use of a chemiluminescent GH assay ( 164 ). It might help in demonstrating the persistence of GH hypersecretion after surgery or during medical therapy. In cases of clinical and laboratory findings suggestive of a GH-producing adenoma, pituitary MRI must be performed to localize and characterize the tumor ( 141 - 143 ) ( Fig. 15 ). Figure 14. The patient’s growth and weight chart with normal growth and weight curves (solid lines, 5th, 50th, 75th, and 95th percentile). Measurements subsequent to therapeutic intervention. Reproduced from ( 165 ), with permission. Figure 15. The extent of tumor invasion as visualized with coronal and lateral MRI views and their outlines. Reproduced from ( 165 ) with permission. Treatment Strategy The objectives of treatment of GH excess are tumor removal with resolution of its eventual mass effects, restoration of normal basal and stimulated GH secretion, relief of symptoms directly caused by GH and IGF-1 excess, and prevention of progressive disfigurement, bone expansion, osteoarthritis and cardiomyopathy which are disabling long-term consequences, as well as prevention of hypertension, insulin resistance, diabetes mellitus and lipid abnormalities that are risk factors for vascular damage ( 139 - 141 ). The currently available treatment options for pituitary gigantism include surgery, radiotherapy, and pharmaco-therapeutic suppression of GH levels. For pituitary gigantism treatment, combination therapy is often necessary due to the aggressiveness of the disease, and the consequent low rate of primary control using both surgical and medical first approach, 26% and 4% respectively ( 143 ). Satisfactory results are obtained in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia using dopamine agonists in prolactin co-secreting adenomas. Transsphenoidal adenomectomy is the cornerstone in the treatment of GH-secreting
