Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


respectively ( 143 ). Satisfactory results are obtained in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia using dopamine agonists in prolactin co-secreting adenomas. Transsphenoidal adenomectomy is the cornerstone in the treatment of GH-secreting tumors, and is a valid first-line therapeutic option ( 143 ). In pediatric patients with gigantism, transsphenoidal surgery was found to be as safe as in adults ( 166 ), although some technical difficulties exist due to the different anatomic conformation in children compared to adults as previously reported in the ACTH-secreting adenoma section. The surgical approach can be difficult in McCune-Albright syndrome patients due to the fibrous dysplasia in the surrounding tissue. In patients with intrasellar microadenomas, surgical removal provides biochemical control with normalization of IGF-I in 75–95% of patients ( 167 , 168 ). In case of macroadenomas, particularly when they exhibit extrasellar growth, transcranial approach might be requested, and persistent postoperative hypersecretion of GH occurs frequently. Despite this, tumor debulking contributes to improving disease control using medical therapy ( 143 ). In most surgical series, only about 60% of acromegalic patients achieve circulating GH levels below 5 μg/l ( 169 - 173 ), with better success score when the neurosurgeon is skilled in pituitary surgery ( 169 , 170 ). Concerning gigantism, for medical treatment it is necessary to consider that several drugs used for acromegaly are not formally studied in children, and for those employed drug-dosing is labelled for adults and might not be directly applicable in pediatric patients. Treatment with somatostatin analogues can be effective in patients with GH excess ( 150 , 174 , 175 ), although limited data are available in adolescent patients. Octreotide given subcutaneously in two patients was shown to inhibit GH levels and reduce growth velocity ( 176 , 177 ). Of interest, in adolescents, as in adults, we observed tumor shrinkage by 30% on average after first-line treatment with somatostatin analogues. Whether this treatment has facilitated the subsequent surgical approach in this series could not be ruled out because of the limited number of cases studied. Treatment was tolerated very well by all patients ( 153 ). As about one third of patients had concomitant hyperprolactinemia and combined treatment with dopaminergic compounds such as cabergoline and somatostatin analogues, may be necessary. In another case of a 15 yr-old girl with a mixed GH/PRL-secreting adenoma ( 165 ), octreotide-LAR (at the dose of 20 mg/28 days) combined with cabergoline (at
