Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


be necessary. In another case of a 15 yr-old girl with a mixed GH/PRL-secreting adenoma ( 165 ), octreotide-LAR (at the dose of 20 mg/28 days) combined with cabergoline (at the dose of 0.5 mg twice/week) normalized serum GH and IGF-I levels, and decreased growth rate from 12 cm/yr to nearly 2.5 cm/yr. This association has be proven to be effective also in an adolescent bearing a somatotropinoma in the context of McCune-Albright syndrome ( 178 ). In seven of the eight hyperprolactinemic patients included in our study, combined treatment with octreotide plus bromocriptine or octreotide-LAR or lanreotide plus cabergoline was effective and well tolerated by all patients. Only two patients (15.4%) of the entire series still presented with active acromegaly after treatment with surgery and pharmacotherapy with somatostatin analogues plus dopamine-agonists( 153 ). Although long-acting somatostatin analogues have been shown to be effective and safe in pediatric patients, this therapy often fails to achieve disease control especially in the most frequent genetic forms of pituitary gigantism ( AIP -mutated adenomas and X-LAG acrogigantism), which are characterized by poor responses to first generation SSAs. Recently the successful use of pasireotide LAR has been reported in two cases of AIP -mutated gigantism not controlled by surgery and first-generation somatostatin analogues, respectively. Pasireotide LAR allowed not only biochemical control but also the reduction of the pituitary adenoma volume. These patients developed pasireotide-induced diabetes, controlled by drug therapy ( 179 ). The GH receptor antagonist pegvisomant is a very potent drug which has been introduced into clinical practice. In patients with resistant acromegaly, the use of the GH-receptor antagonist pegvisomant was followed by normalization of IGF-I levels in more than 80% of patients ( 180 - 182 ). However, there are few data related to pediatric patients. In a 12-year-old girl with tall stature (178 cm), bearing a GH/PRL-secreting macroadenoma inoperable since tumor tissue was fibrous and adherent to the optical nerves, the GH receptor antagonist at a dose of 20 mg/day completely normalized IGF-I levels ( 183 ). In a 3.4 year-old girl with a GH/prolactin-secreting adenoma, treatment with pegvisomant and cabergoline was effective to normalize IGF-I levels and height velocity without side effects ( 184 ). Combined therapy with the addition of pegvisomant to octreotide LAR rapidly allowed biochemical control in three children with pituitary gigantism, pituitary tumor size did not change despite concomitant therapy with a somatostatin analogue ( 185
