Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


of pegvisomant to octreotide LAR rapidly allowed biochemical control in three children with pituitary gigantism, pituitary tumor size did not change despite concomitant therapy with a somatostatin analogue ( 185 ). The main limit of pegvisomant is the eventual adenoma size increase during treatment, requiring treatment suspension. Pegvisomant was successfully used also in the youngest known patient with AIP-related pituitary adenoma, in which despite of the previously transsphenoidal surgery, and the medical treatment after surgery with temozolomide, subsequently in addition to bevacizumab, IGF-1 was normalized only after pegvisomant treatment ( 186 ). Radiation therapy is rarely used in pediatric patients, and is generally is considered only after the failure of both primary surgical and medical therapies, because of a maximum response is achieved 10–15 years after radiotherapy is administered ( 187 , 188 ), and the involvement of surrounding structures in the radiation-induced damage. Radiation-induced damage of the surrounding normal pituitary tissue results in hypogonadism, hypoadrenalism, or hypothyroidism in most patients within 10 years ( 187 ), whereas complications such as optic nerve damage, cranial nerve palsy, impaired memory, lethargy, and local tissue necrosis have been reduced thanks to improved precise isocentric simulators and accurate dosing techniques. At long term follow-up, about 43% of patients with pituitary gigantism among who undergone to secondary radiotherapy have shown controlled GH and IGF-I levels ( 136 ). Noteworthy, as a consequence of the multiple operations and radiotherapy, 64% of patients develop hypopituitarism during long-term follow-up ( 143 ). TSH-SECRETING ADENOMAS This tumor type is rare in adulthood and even rarer in childhood and adolescence with only a few cases reported so far ( 189 ). Plurihormonal adenomas with GH and TSH co-secretion can also occur. It is frequently a macroadenoma presenting with mass effect symptoms such as headache, visual disturbance, together with variable symptoms and signs of hyperthyroidism ( Table 1 ). TSH-secreting adenomas must be differentiated from the syndrome of thyroid hormone resistance ( 190 ). In most cases, the classical criteria of lack of TSH response to TRH stimulation, elevation of serum α-subunit levels, and a high α-subunit/TSH ratio along with a pituitary mass on MRI, are diagnostic of a TSH-secreting adenoma ( 190 ). Treatment Strategy Transsphenoidal surgery is the first treatment approach to these tumors. However, since the majority of these adenomas are macroadenomas, which tend to be locally invasive, surgery alone fails to normalize TSH and thyroid hormone
