Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


first treatment approach to these tumors. However, since the majority of these adenomas are macroadenomas, which tend to be locally invasive, surgery alone fails to normalize TSH and thyroid hormone levels in most cases. In adults, radiotherapy is recommended as routine adjunctive therapy when surgery has not been curative ( 190 ). However, due to the high frequency of post-radiotherapy hypopituitarism, in children pharmacotherapy is the preferred second choice. There is very little success with dopamine agonists for treatment of these tumors ( 191 ). In contrast, therapy with somatostatin analogues normalizes TSH levels in the majority of patients, and tumor shrinkage occurs in approximately half of cases ( 192 - 195 ) and shown be useful in children as well. Rabbiosi et al ., first used lanreotide successfully as first-line treatment in a pediatric patient bearing a macroadenoma characterized by a low probability of complete surgical eradication due to its antero-superior extension. The response to medical treatment was optimal, with significant tumor shrinkage and development of central hypothyroidism after few months. Thus, suggesting that preoperative somatostatin analogue treatment used for tumor shrinkage may be helpful to prepare a hyperthyroid patient to surgery ( 189 ). Before this somatostatin analogue in the pediatric age had only been used in two post-pubertal boys ( 189 ). Chronic treatment with SR-lanreotide reduced plasma TSH and normalized fT4 and fT3 levels, suggesting its use in the long-term medical treatment of these adenomas ( 190 , 195 ). CLINICALLY NONFUNCTIONING ADENOMAS Clinically non-functioning adenomas (NFAs) are extremely rare in childhood, compared with adults ( 196 ). Nonetheless, there is in vitro and in vivo evidence that almost all of these tumors synthesize glycoprotein hormones or their subunits ( 197 , 198 ). In adults, NFAs represent 33-50% of all pituitary tumors, while in pediatric patients they account for less than 4-6% of cases ( 38 , 40 , 44 ), for this reason incidentally discovered adenomas in childhood are rare ( 199 ). In a study, 5 out of 2288 patients treated at Hamburg University between 1970-1996 were diagnosed to bear a clinically NFAs ( 196 ). In a most recent surgical series, 9 out 85 pituitary adenomas (10.6%) were NFAs in the pediatric group ( 107 ). Most silent adenomas arise from gonadotroph cells, the clinical presentation includes visual field defects, headache, and some degree of pituitary insufficiency since invariably all patients had
