Pituitary Tumors in Childhood
KEYWORDS: pubmed, pituitary, patients, treatment, adenomas, endocrinol, children, disease, clin, pediatric, clin endocrinol, cushing, pituitary adenomas, tumor, growth


group ( 107 ). Most silent adenomas arise from gonadotroph cells, the clinical presentation includes visual field defects, headache, and some degree of pituitary insufficiency since invariably all patients had a macroadenoma ( Table 1 ). Recent data show that hypogonadism is the most frequent pituitary deficiency at diagnosis occurring in 71.4% of pediatric patients, followed by TSH deficiency (33.3%), and GH and ACTH deficiency (both 11.1%). No case of diabetes insipidus occurred in this pediatric series ( 107 ). Larger macroadenoma could also cause hydrocephalus due to the obstruction of foramen of Monro ( 199 ). A modest hyperprolactinemia can also be present due to pituitary stalk compression ( 196 ). Functioning gonadotroph adenomas are tumors expressing and secreting biologically active gonadotropins. They are extremely rare, and their real prevalence is unknown due to only case reports and small case series reported in literature. Peculiar presenting manifestation in the pediatric age is isosexual precocious puberty or ovarian hyperstimulation, frequently in addition to mass effect due to the presence of a macroadenoma. To date, only three female patients aged <14 years with a clinical functioning gonadotroph adenoma have been described in literature ( 200 - 202 ). Biochemical findings include elevated serum FSH levels, elevated or low LH levels, and high estradiol and testosterone levels in females and in males, respectively ( 203 ). In the pediatric population, these adenomas need to be differentiated from other sellar/para- sellar masses such as cysts, craniopharyngioma, and dysgerminoma. Therefore, the MRI of the sella and parasellar structure is the basic step in the diagnosis. Treatment Strategy The first approach to these adenomas, silent and even functioning, is transsphenoidal surgery to remove tumor mass and decompress parasellar structures. As in the other adenoma types, surgery has a low morbidity and leads to an improvement of visual symptoms in the majority of cases. Endoscopic endonasal unilateral transsphenoidal approach to the pituitary ( 204 ), which has the same indications as the conventional transsphenoidal microsurgery, overcomes many of the potential problems tied to the surgical route, thanks to its minimal invasiveness. This procedure involves no sublabial dissection nor any fracture of the facial bones with dental or naso-sinusal complications. Furthermore, a wider surgical vision of the operating field is obtained, which potentially improves the likelihood of a better and safer tumor removal. In addition, this procedure requires a shorter hospitalization, permits a rapid recovery of the
