review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


with microbial Although the BBB is highly impermeable under normal metabolites (i.e. secretome) exerting significant local and physiological conditions, permeability can vary between widespread influence.12 Microbial metabolites are synthe- brain regions and over time, and may be altered by devel- sised via bacterial metabolism of dietary material within opmental stage, ageing or disease.19,21 It is becoming evi- the GI tract, and these metabolites can then enter systemic dent that even relatively subtle increases in permeability circulation via permeating the gut epithelial barrier.13 This (i.e. leakage) can have quite detrimental impacts. This translocation may occur via passive diffusion, active diffu- leakage could be paracellular, with changes in tight and/or sion or even leakage when the gut barrier is compromised. adherens junction complexes leading to unregulated influx Once in circulation, in order for these microbial metabo- of peripheral factors (such as pro-inflammatory cytokines, lites to influence the brain, they must first interact with the reactive oxygen species or neuroimmune cells) to the CNS blood-brain barrier (BBB)12 – the specialised endothelial or also transcellular, via upregulation of caveolae or down- layer that regulates systemic-to-central communication. regulation of efflux transporters.22 Whatever the means, As such, efforts have turned to modelling and evaluating this leakage results in disruption and heightened exposure the BBB, to define its role in microbiota-gut-brain com- of the vulnerable neuronal microenvironment. As such, munication. However, this is a rapidly evolving field with pathways by which the gut microbiota may modulate BBB a magnitude of methodological strategies that can be permeability have been investigated to understand the role adopted, with varying advantages and limitations. This of the gut-brain axis in neuropathologies with greater review seeks to provide an overview of in vitro preclinical clarity. methods, with the goal of improving the rigor and consist- ency by which BBB-microbiota interactions are assessed Gut microbiota-BBB interactions in the laboratory environment and accelerate translational success. The principal evidence illustrating the fundamental con- nection between the gut microbiota and the BBB stems from experimental work using germ-free (GF) rodent mod- Blood-brain barrier els. GF animals are devoid of a gut microbiota from birth The BBB is a multi-cellular structure, with a highly speci- and are raised in sterile conditions to maintain this condi- fied environment, which functions to protect the vulnera- tion.24 Notably, the BBB of GF mice is more permeable ble brain tissue from potentially harmful molecules within than their commensally colonised, specific-pathogen free systemic
