review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


functions to protect the vulnera- tion.24 Notably, the BBB of GF mice is more permeable ble brain tissue from potentially harmful molecules within than their commensally colonised, specific-pathogen free systemic circulation (Figure 1). A monolayer of special- (SPF) counterparts.25 This heightened leakage has been ised endothelial cells, brain microvascular endothelial linked to reduced expression of key proteins forming the cells (BMECs), comprise the brain capillaries – the main intercellular tight junctions between BMECs, claudin-5 structural component of the BBB.14 These BMECs tightly and occludin,25 highlighting a structural deficit alongside regulate the entry and efflux of molecules to and from the functional changes. The ability to reverse both the reduc- brain, in order to maintain brain homeostasis and meet tion in tight junction proteins and the heightened barrier Davies et al. 3 Figure 1. Structure of the BBB including key BMEC cellular structures and components of the NVU. Original figure created with Biorender.com. permeability by delivering the faecal microbiota of normal Ruminococcus) which are linked to the production of SPF mice, suggests that a functional BBB requires the pres- important microbial metabolites – short chain fatty acids ence of a gut microbiota.25 However, comparison of the (SCFAs).26 Levels of these SCFAs within rhesus monkeys’ presence/absence of a gut microbiota does lack the finesse faecal contents were negatively correlated with BBB per- to be truly clinically relevant, and therefore the use of anti- meability in thalamic and hippocampal brain regions.26 biotics to disrupt the microbiota provides further insight. SCFAs have generated increasing interest in recent Oral delivery of antibiotics (amoxicillin-clavulanic acid) to years and now are perhaps the most extensively researched rhesus monkeys reduced the diversity of microbial families gut microbial metabolites – certainly in the context of the which correlated with increased BBB permeability (deter- gut-brain axis. SCFAs are produced through the process of mined by increased entry of plasma protein albumin to the complex, plant-derived polysaccharide anaerobic fermen- CNS).26 Of particular interest were reductions in relative tation by bacteria residing within the colon. The three most abundance of certain microbial genera (all from the common SCFAs are acetate, propionate and butyrate, and Firmicutes phylum, including Faecalibacterium, Blautia, the absence of these in GF mice is considered to be a key 4 Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism 00(0) player in associated BBB dysfunction.25,27 Both colonisa- function (TEER) and promoted appropriate ZO-1 expres- tion of GF mice with single microbial
