review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


acid (another SCFA) tion.29,30 Further evidence of multiple levels of pathology- have been shown to exert beneficial effects in the context of altering effects induced by SCFAs has also been identified BBB repair post-stroke via inhibition of HDAC and down- in preclinical models of Parkinson’s disease,31–33 suggest- stream blockage of nuclear factor-kβ (NF-kβ) p65 transcrip- ing that these microbial metabolites have the capacity to tion activity.40 This highlights that there is still significant not only improve BBB function but also other disease- knowledge to be gained regarding how SCFAs and other driving neuropathologies simultaneously. components of the gut microbiota secretome modulate The development of in vitro models of the BBB has BMEC structure and function on a molecular level, as it is advanced our ability to dissect causal mechanisms and likely that it is context dependent. implicated pathways by which systemic mediators influ- These promising results indicate benefits for SCFAs ence cerebral endothelium. BBB leakage in these models and the broader microbiota secretome in mediating BBB is often induced via exposure to endotoxin (lipopolysac- structure and function, and thus contributing to various charide (LPS)), a component of the cellular membrane of neuropathologies (of which we have listed but a few, Gram-negative bacteria and often associated with a dis- reviewed extensively by others2,21,41). However, the chal- rupted or pathogenic gut microbiota.34 LPS treatment del- lenge remains regarding how to model these highly com- eteriously impacts BMEC expression of tight junction plex organ systems in order to understand the manner by proteins (claudin-5, occludin, ZO-1) and increases barrier which they interact and be able to modulate this to influ- permeability (trans-endothelial electrical resistance, ence consequent pathophysiologies. In vivo animal models TEER) in vitro.12,35,36 This disruption appears to utilise have been an extraordinary resource, identifying a funda- JNK and p38MAPK mediated pathways and matrix metal- mental requirement for a gut microbiota for appropriate loproteinase (MMP-2, MMP-9) signalling as inhibition of BBB formation. In addition, these models can provide sig- these enzymes can partially alleviate LPS-induced tight nificant insight into the manner by which these numerous junction downregulation.36 Given their in vivo barriergenic organ systems (i.e. the gut and the brain) interact simulta- properties, it is not surprising that SCFAs are also able to neously whilst allowing real-time cognitive-behavioural rescue BMECs from the effects of LPS in vitro. In mono- testing to determine clinically relevant outcomes. However, culture conditions, propionate directly prevented LPS- in
