review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


neously whilst allowing real-time cognitive-behavioural rescue BMECs from the effects of LPS in vitro. In mono- testing to determine clinically relevant outcomes. However, culture conditions, propionate directly prevented LPS- in vivo models generally require animal sacrifice prior to induced tight junction disruption and also reduced levels BBB readouts (to measure levels of stained dyes within the of reactive oxygen species by inhibiting NRF2 in hCMEC/ CNS) which necessitates either a large number of animals D3 endothelial cells.12 Propionate appears to exert these to determine time-course of pathology, which is both effects by binding to the G-protein coupled-receptor, free labour- and cost-intensive, or designing an experiment fatty acid receptor-3 (FFAR3) which is expressed by with a single outcome time-point which risks overlooking BMECs and to which propionate is a strong agonist.37 important earlier or later events in BBB pathology.42 Knox et al. also demonstrated that both propionate and Recent advances in in vivo imaging techniques look to butyrate were protective against LPS-induced loss of barrier address this limitation and provide a superior option for Davies et al. 5 real-time dynamics of BBB permeability. However, these compounds into the brain, and hence, defining the func- techniques require highly expensive imaging set-ups and tional attributes of any BBB model is critical. Most BBB lack standardisation as well as the sensitivity to identify models to date have used 2D transwell systems, in which less severe BBB disruption.43,44 BMECs are cultured on the apical membrane and perme- In vitro models look to address these limitations by pro- ability between the apical and basolateral compartments viding highly malleable experimental conditions allowing is regulated by the cellular monolayer.45 In this set-up, high resolution and repeated outcome measures to investi- trans-endothelial electrical resistance (TEER) is com- gate cause-effect relationships. However, there is a clear monly used to assess barrier integrity. TEER provides trade-off here, with overall loss of physiological complex- (predominantly) manual, repeated-measures of permea- ity necessitating highly specialised culture techniques and bility across the monolayer, with readouts indicating the conditions (e.g. combining anaerobic and aerobic condi- level of resistance to ion flow between electrodes inserted tions for microbial co-culture with human cells), which into the apical and basolateral compartments.46 Some attempt to recapitulate characteristics of in vivo conditions novel 3D and microfluidic models have also developed in a physiologically relevant manner. These seemingly innovative approaches to incorporating electrodes into incompatible model systems therefore create a dilemma in
