review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


conditions novel 3D and microfluidic models have also developed in a physiologically relevant manner. These seemingly innovative approaches to incorporating electrodes into incompatible model systems therefore create a dilemma in devices to retain the opportunity for real-time read-outs trying to characterise microbiota-BBB interactions to of barrier function.47 A reduction in TEER is generally advance knowledge. Of the two approaches to modelling considered to indicate a decrease in barrier function; (in vivo vs in vitro) gut-in vitro microbiota and BBB inter- however, TEER values can also be influenced by cell actions, in vitro methods have undergone more rapid and number and size which in turn can be impacted by experi- drastic advances in the last decade, relative to the previous mental conditions.48 A minimum TEER value of 500 Ω/ approaches. As such, the remainder of this review will cm2 is considered sufficient to restrict small drug trans- focus on describing these developments and identifying port in a manner which physiologically resembles human future areas for innovation. in vivo BBB functions.49 Translocation of fluorescent tracers across the cerebral endothelial monolayer is also routinely used to assess bar- In vitro models of the blood- rier function, in parallel to TEER, providing a more clini- brain barrier which can be used cally relevant readout. The addition of the tracer at the to interrogate microbiota-brain commencement of the experimental window and repeated interactions sampling of the ‘brain’ (basolateral) compartment of the model allows for quantification of permeability across In vitro models provide the ability to finely dissect molec- multiple time-points. The most common fluorescent sol- ular pathways of BBB damage or repair, as well as the utes used are sodium fluorescein (molecular weight 376 potential efficacy of therapeutics. They also have the Da) and fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) labelled dex- advantage of being relatively high-throughput and less tran (molecular weight 4 or 70 kDa).50 Sodium fluorescein labour and cost-intensive than complete organism models. is reminiscent of small molecular permeability and is With recent advances in stem cell modelling, it is also pos- therefore more useful for detecting subtle changes in bar- sible to produce models using human cells which are rea- rier functionality. The presence of both sodium fluorescein sonably physiologically relevant (i.e. reproducing key and FITC-labelled dextran can be easily detected by a flu- structural and functional features of in vivo tissue), partic- orescent plate reader, providing a sensitive and objective ularly by combining multiple
