review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


FITC-labelled dextran can be easily detected by a flu- structural and functional features of in vivo tissue), partic- orescent plate reader, providing a sensitive and objective ularly by combining multiple cell types of the NVU or by measure of paracellular permeability. Sucrose[13C12] utilising 3D microfluidic technology. In this section we (molecular weight 354 Da) is an alternate permeability will summarise the various assays and available models to marker which may be considered most appropriate due to characterise barrier function or cellular phenotype in the its metabolic stability, lack of protein binding and non- context of microbial disruption or intervention. radioactive nature (in comparison to the earlier iteration [14C] sucrose).50 However, to analyse levels of either Measures of blood-brain barrier permeability sucrose isoform requires sensitive LS-MS/MS techniques and is therefore a less accessible option than fluorescent in vitro alternatives. To compare various methods of modelling the BBB, ini- In vitro models of the BBB also allow for assessment of tially we need to discuss the available strategies/criteria for transcellular permeability. The predominant method for determining function, as various models incorporate or meet cerebral endothelial transcellular trafficking is via caveo- these criteria with varying fidelity (summarised in Table 1). lae formation: a section of the membrane, enriched with a caveolin-1 protein sheet, which invaginates around the Functional measures. Central to the BBB’s core role is its molecule to be trafficked. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) ability to regulate transport of systemically circulating is transcytosed via caveolae-dependent mechanisms, 6 Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism 00(0) Table 1. Key outcome measures to assess in vitro BBB function. Outcome measure Description Associated BMEC/BBB phenotype Functional TEER Measures the resistance to ion flow A decrease in TEER is indicative of greater barrier between two compartments, i.e., across permeability. a tissue barrier In vitro TEER > 500 Ω/cm2 broadly considered relevant to in vivo physiology Permeability of fluorescent Measure of paracellular permeability Sodium fluorescein indicates small molecular tracers across a cellular barrier. Commonly used permeability (MW 376 Da) while FITC-dextran as tracers include sodium fluorescein and a larger tracer (MW 4 or 70 kDa) indicates greater FITC-dextran changes in barrier permeability Permeability of transcytosed Permeability of HRP or Cy3-tagged Changes in BMEC transcytosis are context substrates transferrin across the cellular barrier dependent, i.e., can be beneficial or detrimental indicates the functionality of cellular trafficking via caveolae or receptor mediated transcytosis Efflux transporter activity Pgp activity (key BMEC
