review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


activity is generally used claudins-1, -3 and -12 are also found within tight junction as a surrogate for overall efflux function in vitro. complexes in the brain.54 Downregulation or delocalisa- Rhodamine 123 is a P-gp substrate, and cellular accumula- tion of claudin-5 from cell membranes results in tight junc- tion of Rhodamine 123 (1-h incubation followed by cell tion disruption and consequent transcellular leakage of the lysis) can be quantified to determine P-gp activity, with BBB,54 hence enriched and localised claudin-5 is a strong negligible accumulation indicative of appropriate P-gp indicator of a restrictive barrier. Occludin is another impor- function.52 tant protein of the tight junction complex, maintaining Davies et al. 7 BMEC monolayer tightness and disruption of occludin GLUT1 (SLC2A1) is the main glucose transporter expression has been linked to BBB extravasation in mod- expressed at the BBB.65 Other important transporters els of ischaemic stroke, Alzheimer’s disease and brain include MCT1 (monocarboxylate transporter, SLC16A1) metastases.55–57 The third major protein of the tight junc- and LAT1 (L amino acid transporters, SLC7A5) for lactate tion complex is ZO-1, which functions to connect clau- and amino acid uptake, respectively.66,67 Caveolae forma- din-5 and occludin to cytoskeletal filaments, and similarly, tion for vesicular transport can also be assessed via quanti- inappropriate ZO-1 expression or configuration contrib- fication of CAV-1 expression, either at mRNA or protein utes to depleted barrier function via junctional leakage.58 level.68 In some instances, caveolae formation is linked to Aberration in junctional staining is generally visualised increased barrier permeability, via the endocytosis of tight via immunofluorescent staining for the junctional proteins junctions, and therefore high CAV-1 expression can be of interest and confirming appropriate membrane localisa- detrimental.68 tion. This is often quantified at the mRNA level; however, this over-looks the importance of appropriate junctional Cellular and technical considerations for BBB formation and as such, may underestimate more subtle modelling changes. Quantification of the homogeneity of immuno- fluorescent staining intensity along the junction, is a pub- Key considerations summarised in Figure 2. lished alternative with greater spatial sensitivity.59 Intracellularly, the tight junction complex is highly reg- Monoculture models. The BBB can be modelled in a rela- ulated by the cytoskeleton, from establishment through to tively simple manner using a variety of monoculture strat- maintenance. In fact, in epithelial cells, direct disruption of egies, including immortalised, primary and induced actin fibre polymerisation is sufficient to interrupt tight pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs)-derived BMECs.
