review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


resist- factors.92,93 ance with in vivo human data is clearly challenging, TEER recordings using glass microelectrodes of in vivo rat arte- Co-culture models. As the NVU is comprised of multiple rial and venous microvessels have been reported at 1490 cell types, which provide physical and chemical support to and 918 Ω/cm2, respectively.88 These findings underscore the BMECs, in vitro models which incorporate additional the value of deriving BMECs from iPSCs, as this is the cell types clearly possess greater physiological relevance. only source that reliably achieves TEER levels compara- There are similar considerations for sourcing these co-cul- ble to in vivo measures. However, numerous adaptions to tured support cells, with immortalised more easily obtained the original protocol have been published, such as Wnt and less labour- and cost-intensive, whilst primary or supplementation89 or differentiation under hypoxic iPSC-derived known to be more biologically reliable.11 A Davies et al. 9 further advantage of deriving BBB cells from iPSCs is the LPS stimulation of BMEC monocultures resulted in last- opportunity to generate not only patient-specific BMECs ing barrier disruption; however, the damage was transient but also other NVU cell types from the same individual, a in primary BMEC/astrocyte co-cultures, indicating an clear step towards precision medicine approaches to study- important role of astrocyte-mediated recovery.107 As such, ing the interplay of the microbiota-gut-brain axis.94 These in vitro models of the BBB which incorporate astrocytes patient-derived, isogenic models have shed light on BBB provide not only greater physiological relevance at base- pathologies associated with conditions such as cerebral line but also in the context of exposure to circulating cavernous malformations95 and psychomotor retardation96 microbial products. and also offer significant potential for advancing our understanding of microbiota-BBB interactions in a highly Pericytes. The role of pericytes to the NVU is less well- clinically-relevant manner. characterised but emerging evidence indicates their criti- cality to models of the BBB in vitro. In fact, co-culture Astrocytes. Astrocytes exert significant control over the of primary rat-derived BMECs with primary rat-derived phenotype of brain endothelium, and as such, they are com- pericytes induced 400% greater TEER recordings than monly co-cultured with BMECs to model the BBB in vitro. co-culture with primary astrocytes.108 This was likely Astrocytes secrete factors, such as vascular endothelial via upregulating tight junction proteins as pericyte con- growth factor (VEGF), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic ditioned medium increased occludin mRNA and protein factor (GDNF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF)
