review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


phenotypes exist along a continuum, with multiple BBB in the broader context of microbiota-brain interac- intermediate and functionally diverse activation states.115 tions is particularly important as a number of microbial In their resting state, microglia have shown barrier promot- metabolites are capable of exerting significant influence ing effects, upregulating ZO-1 and occludin expression in over astrocytes. LPS promotes a pro-inflammatory pheno- co-cultures.116 However, inducing a more activated phe- type in cultured astrocytes, inducing increased secretion of notype of microglia with neurotoxic amyloid-β reversed pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα, VCAM-1, IL-1β, these beneficial effects on tight junction formation and IL-6, IL-15, IL-27).103,104 Conversely, SCFAs promote in increased passage across the endothelial monolayer.116 As specific manner)105 and can alleviate stress (hypoxia)- play a crucial role in relaying pathogenic microbial signal- induced primary rat astrocyte activation.106 With this ling to the neuronal microenvironment. As such, they are susceptibility to microbial product-mediated effects and useful cells to include in in vitro models of BBB mediated their important role as modulators of the BBB, it is likely microbiota-gut-brain axis communication. that capillary-associated astrocytes regulate the effects of Similarly to other cells of the NVU, microglia are highly microbial products at the neurovascular unit. For example, susceptible to both pathogenic and beneficial influence of 10 Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism 00(0) the microbial secretome. For instance, secretion of pro- differentiation and function,126,127 given the extensive inflammatory TNF-α from ex vivo cultured microglia from crosstalk with other cells of the NVU, it is likely that LPS-treated mice was partially reversed when the mice SCFA effects upon neurons are also modulated by other were also placed on a high soluble fibre diet (inulin) which cells more proximal to the metabolites in circulation (i.e. increases plasma SCFA concentrations.117 Likewise, direct endothelial cells, astrocytes, pericytes). As such, inclu- supplementation of microglia with SCFAs (butyrate and sion of neural cells into models of the BBB designed to acetate, alone and concurrent) suppressed cytokine secre- study the humoral pathway of the gut-brain axis would tion.117 As pro-inflammatory cytokines are able to disrupt provide rich insight into direct mechanisms of influence. tight junctions,118 modulation of microglial cytokine release is likely to have consequences for BBB function. However, 3D and microfluidic models. In addition to the complexity in vitro characterisation of microglial-endothelial dynamics of the cellular components of the BBB models, increasing in response to microbial-derived metabolites or products structural complexity also advances its
