review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


cyte-BMEC cultures to form a tri-culture model has been ever, full quantification of these methods has not yet been shown to improve the astrocyte end-feet connection to the achieved.131 While this spheroid structure is less physio- endothelial monolayer, emphasising the complex crosstalk logically accurate than the tubular structure formed within between numerous cells of the NVU.121 the hydrogel, the spheroid model can be more easily and Reciprocally, primary co-culture of endothelial cells reproducibly upscaled, with Simonneau et al. producing with hippocampal NPCs promoted progenitor differentia- >3000 spheroids/experiment.130 However, to date these tion,122 indicating a mutually beneficial relationship models have primarily used immortalised human cells or between these cells in vitro. There are a limited number of primary cells from model species, and thus, they are under- published co-culture models of BMECs with mature neu- mined by the associated limitations of each. rons, probably associated with the financial and technical Organoid structures which utilise human stem cells challenges of long-term neuronal differentiation. This is (embryonic or induced) have also been published; how- clearly a gap which should be addressed to improve the ever, developing a vascularised organoid system is more translatability of laboratory models to clinical outcomes challenging and labour-intensive than the hydrogel or as the postnatal brain is comprised predominantly of spheroid alternatives. Long-term culture of cerebral orga- mature, quiescent neurons. In the few studies available, noids with VEGF and Wnt7a or specific transcription fac- the co-culture of BMECs with mature neurons appeared tors does eventuate in vascularisation23,132; however, the to promote neuronal morphology and function123 and experimental time-course for this (30-70 days) is consider- exert neuroprotective effects in the face of hypoxia124 and ably >~7 days of spheroid or hydrogel approaches. hyperglycaemia.125 Additionally, while there is some evi- Despite the more laborious protocol, given that all cells are dence to suggests that direct supplementation of monocul- derived from co-differentiated human stem cells (endothe- tured neural lineage cells with SCFAs promotes neural lial cells, astrocytes, pericytes, neural lineage cells all Davies et al. 11 observed)23,132 they serve as a relevant recapitulation of the comparisons.47 Additionally, the significant complexity human NVU in entirety. In addition, newly emerging of these models increases opportunity for human error,138 approaches termed ‘assembloids’ allow brain organoids reinforcing the low-throughput nature of this approach and blood vessel organoids to be generated separately and and reducing reproducibility across experimental set-ups. subsequently combined to create BBB assembloids.95 This is
