review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


the BBB) are microbiota-gut-brain axis dysfunction in Alzheimer’s dis- exposed. While yet to be applied to microbiota-gut-brain ease, with plans to use microbiota samples collected from axis research, this method has been successfully applied in Alzheimer’s patients compared to healthy controls.139 other contexts, such as proof-of-concept microfluidic Other approaches under development include using a modelling102 or to investigate COVID-19 related changes microbiota-gut-brain axis on a microfluidic chip to gain to BBB permeability.149 insights into neurodegenerative diseases led by Broersen microbes with NVU cells. Previously used in CNS infec- et al. in University of Cambridge have also received ERC tion models,150 this method faces challenges due incom- funding to develop a 3D bioelectronic model of gut-brain patible gaseous demands – aerobic and anaerobic signalling.158 Finally, Sedrani et al. have developed neuro- conditions for BMECs and microbes, respectively. HuMiX which is an advanced gut-on-a-chip model to However, the Human oxygen-Bacteria anaerobic (HoxBan) study the interactions of bacterial, epithelial and neuronal co-culturing system is an innovative set-up which allows cells.159 This model allows unravelling of the molecular the co-culture of anaerobes with human cells by growing mechanisms underlying the communication between the microbes in solid agar, creating mutually optimal condi- gut microbiome and the nervous system. As with many tions.151 Although direct interaction between gut microbes such microbiota-gut-brain axis models it doesn’t as yet and NVU cells typically requires severe gut barrier com- incorporate the BBB but serves as a template for further promise – limiting its clinical relevance for most contexts innovation in the space. While substantial progress has – this method illustrates how technological innovation is been made in advancing the technical resources and mod- expanding the capacity to model inter-organ system inter- els available to study microbiota-BBB interactions, a sig- actions in vitro. nificant gap in the research landscape persists – despite Multi-organ devices which can replicate multiple com- identification of microbial influence on the BBB, the ponents of microbiota-gut-brain axis interaction are underlying mechanisms of this influence continue to be emerging. This is clearly a step beyond the once siloed relatively unexplored. As such, the field would benefit approaches of in vitro models and a step towards in vivo from leveraging these emerging models to study these physiology, with the added benefit of greater experimental interactions with a stronger focus on mechanistic aspects. control and the use of human tissues. While still a very Despite these efforts to bridge
