review-article2026 JCB0010.1177/0271678X261419964Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & MetabolismDavies et al.
KEYWORDS: brain, barrier, bbb, blood, cells, vitro, blood brain, models, gut, brain barrier, endothelial, permeability, human, cell, model


snoitcennoc ro )snoitatum thgit BBB detpursid -α fo noitidda illiv tug dna snoitcnuj slirbif nielcunys slirbif nielcunys-α s’nosnikraP( laruen detpursid osla )ygolohtap erew dna sespanys morf detacolsnart htob hguorht niarb sreirrab tug dna BBB lanitsetniortsag ot .nemul .)elocylg enelyhte( ylop :GEP ;irolyp retcabocileH :irolyp .H ;iloc aihcirehcsE :iloc .E ;llec rotinegorporuen lapmacoppih tluda :CPHA Davies et al. 15 opportunity to incorporate a precision medicine approach Funding by utilising iPSC technology to develop patient-derived The authors disclosed receipt of the following financial support BBB models, highlights the value of in vitro systems for for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: fundamental insight, that is, higher-throughput secretome MRD was supported by an Australian Government Research experimentation to assess influence of microbial BBB Scholarship. CBC was supported by the Veronika Sacco Clinical modulation on cognitive behavioural outcomes and inter- Cancer Research Fellowship. HRW was supported by the system interactions remains essential. Hospital Research Foundation Group and the National Health and Medical Research Council in the form of two fellowships. Conclusions and future Declaration of conflicting interests recommendations The authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article. Extensive research progress has been made to (i) uncover the interactions between the gut microbiota and its influ- Ethical considerations ence over the CNS and (ii) develop physiologically rele- vant models of the BBB in vitro. There is now clear Not applicable. evidence that the gut microbiota is aetiologically involved in neurological disorders, with an important role of the Consent to participate BBB to mediate these effects. As the gut microbiota can be Not applicable. modulated with relative ease, these interactions may pro- vide insight into adjunctive or even disease altering inter- Consent for publication ventions by targeting the methods by which the microbiota Not applicable. communicates with the CNS (such as the secretome). Therefore, it is also crucial that we ensure that in vitro ORCID iDs models are able to provide the insight required in order to Maya R Davies define these interactions, particularly via the BBB, which Courtney B Cross we know is instrumental in defining peripheral to central Hannah R Wardill influence. Despite significant advancement, ongoing con- siderations for improving in vitro BBB (and microbiota- Data availability statement gut-brain axis) modelling to more faithfully replicate in vivo conditions remain. Biological factors which strongly Not applicable. influence both the BBB and gut microbiota
