Arrhythmogenic right ventricular
KEYWORDS: arvd, ventricular, right, disease, ventricle, right ventricular, cardiac, right ventricle, seen, tachycardia, individuals, wall, involved, death, free


OK 1/10 ARVC/D is an important cause of ventricular arrhythmias in children and young adults. It is seen predominantly in males, and 30-50% of cases have a familial distribution. Genetics It is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, with variable expression. Novel studies showed that mutations (point mutations) in genes encoding for desmosomal proteins (see intercalated disc) are the main causatives for the development of this disease. Recently it could be shown, that mutations in the desmin gene could cause ARVC. Desmin is an intermediate filament protein, which is linked to the desmosomes. The penetrance is 20–35% in general, but significantly higher in Italy. Seven gene loci have been implicated in ARVD. However, about 50% of families that express ARVD that undergo genetic screening do not show linkage with any of the known chromosomal loci. It is unclear whether the pathogenesis varies with the different loci involved. Standard genetic screening test are currently tested and evaluated in different state of the art cardiovascular research centres and hospitals. Types include: Incidence The incidence of ARVD is about 1/10,000 in the general population in the United States, although some studies have suggested that it may be as common as 1/1,000. Recently, 1/200 were found to be carriers of mutations that predispose to ARVC[3] It accounts for up to 17% of all sudden cardiac deaths in the young. In Italy, the incidence is 40/10,000, making it the most common cause of sudden cardiac death in the young population. Presentation Up to 80% of individuals with ARVD present with syncope or sudden cardiac death. The remainder frequently present with palpitations or other symptoms due to right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) tachycardia (a type of monomorphic ventricular tachycardia). Symptoms are usually exercise-related. In populations where hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is screened out prior to involvement in competitive athletics, it is a common cause of sudden cardiac death. 2/10 The first clinical signs of ARVD are usually during adolescence. However, signs of ARVD have been demonstrated in infants. Pathogenesis The pathogenesis of ARVD is largely unknown. Apoptosis (programmed cell death) appears to play a large role. It is unclear why only the right ventricle is involved. The disease process starts in the subepicardial region and works its way towards the endocardial surface, leading to transmural involvement (possibly accounting for the aneurysmal dilatation of the RV). Residual myocardium is confined to the subendocardial region and the trabeculae of
