Arrhythmogenic right ventricular
KEYWORDS: arvd, ventricular, right, disease, ventricle, right ventricular, cardiac, right ventricle, seen, tachycardia, individuals, wall, involved, death, free


axis deviation. Multiple morphologies of ventricular tachycardia may be present in the same individual, suggesting multiple arrhythmogenic foci or pathways. Right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) tachycardia is the most common VT seen in individuals with ARVD. In this case, the EKG shows a left bundle branch block (LBBB) morphology with an inferior axis. Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for the ventricular tachycardia due to ARVD include: • Congenital heart disease • Repaired tetralogy of Fallot • Ebstein's anomaly • Uhl's anomaly • Atrial septal defect • Partial anomalous venous return • Acquired heart disease • Tricuspid valve disease • Pulmonary hypertension • Right ventricular infarction • Bundle-branch re-entrant tachycardia • Miscellaneous • Pre-excited AV re-entry tachycardia • Idiopathic RVOT tachycardia • Sarcoidosis Clinical testing In order to make the diagnosis of ARVD, a number of clinical tests are employed, including the electrocardiogram (EKG), echocardiography, right ventricular angiography, cardiac MRI, and genetic testing. Electrocardiogram 90% of individuals with ARVD have some EKG abnormality. The most common EKG abnormality seen in ARVD is T wave inversion in leads V to V . However, this is a non-specific finding, and 1 3 may be considered a normal variant in right bundle branch block (RBBB), women, and children under 12 years old. RBBB itself is seen frequently in individuals with ARVD. This may be due to delayed activation of the right ventricle, rather than any intrinsic abnormality in the right bundle branch. The epsilon wave is found in about 50% of those with ARVD. This is described as a terminal notch in the QRS complex. It is due to slowed intraventricular conduction. The epsilon wave may be seen on a surface EKG; however, it is more commonly seen on signal averaged EKGs. 4/10 Ventricular ectopy seen on a surface EKG in the setting of ARVD is typically of left bundle branch block (LBBB) morphology, with a QRS axis of -90 to +110 degrees. The origin of the ectopic beats is usually from one of the three regions of fatty degeneration (the "triangle of The epsilon wave dysplasia"): the RV outflow tract, the RV inflow tract, and the RV apex. The epsilon wave (marked by red triangle), seen in ARVD. Signal averaged ECG Signal averaged ECG (SAECG) is used to detect late potentials and epsilon waves in individuals with ARVD. Echocardiography Echocardiography may reveal an enlarged, hypokinetic right ventricle with a paper-thin RV free wall. The
