Arrhythmogenic right ventricular
KEYWORDS: arvd, ventricular, right, disease, ventricle, right ventricular, cardiac, right ventricle, seen, tachycardia, individuals, wall, involved, death, free


(SAECG) is used to detect late potentials and epsilon waves in individuals with ARVD. Echocardiography Echocardiography may reveal an enlarged, hypokinetic right ventricle with a paper-thin RV free wall. The dilatation of the RV will cause dilatation of the tricuspid valve annulus, with subsequent tricuspid regurgitation. Paradoxical septal motion may also be present. Cardiac MRI Fatty infiltration of the RV free wall can be visible on cardiac MRI. Fat has increased intensity in T1- weighted images. However, it may be difficult to differentiate intramyocardial fat and the epicardial fat that is commonly seen adjacent to the normal heart. Also, the sub-tricuspid region may be difficult to distinguish from the atrioventricular sulcus, which is rich in fat. Cardiac MRI can visualize the extreme thinning and akinesis of the RV free wall. However, the normal RV MRI in a patient affected by ARVC/D (long axis free wall may be about 3 mm thick, making the test view of the right ventricle): note the transmural less sensitive. diffuse bright signal in the RV free wall on spin echo T1 (a) due to massive myocardial atrophy with fatty replacement (b). Right ventricular angiography Right ventricular angiography is considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of ARVD. Findings consistent with ARVD are an akinetic or dyskinetic bulging localized to the infundibular, apical, and subtricuspid regions of the RV. The specificity is 90%; however, the test is observer dependent. Right ventricular biopsy Transvenous biopsy of the right ventricle can be highly specific for ARVD, but it has low sensitivity. False positives include other conditions with fatty infiltration of the ventricle, such as chronic alcohol abuse and Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy. False negatives are common, however, because the disease progresses typically from the epicardium to the endocardium (with the biopsy sample coming from the endocardium), and the segmental naCtuoorkeie so hfe lpth ues d edliivseer aosure s. erAvilcseos., B yd uusein gt oou rt sherev icpeas,p yoeur -atghreien t o roiugrh utse vofe cnootrkiiecsu.lar free wall that is 5/10 common in this disease process, most biopsy samples are taken from the ventricular septum, which is commonly not involved in the disease process. A biopsy sample that is consistent with ARVD would have > 3% fat, >40% fibrous tissue, and <45% myocytes. Autopsy A post mortem histological demonstration of full thickness substitution of the RV myocardium by fatty or fibro-fatty tissue is consistent with ARVD. Genetic Testing ARVD is
