Arrhythmogenic right ventricular
KEYWORDS: arvd, ventricular, right, disease, ventricle, right ventricular, cardiac, right ventricle, seen, tachycardia, individuals, wall, involved, death, free


and <45% myocytes. Autopsy A post mortem histological demonstration of full thickness substitution of the RV myocardium by fatty or fibro-fatty tissue is consistent with ARVD. Genetic Testing ARVD is an autosomal dominant trait with reduced penetrance. Approximately 40-50% of ARVD patients have a mutation identified in one of several genes encoding components of the desmosome, which can help confirm a diagnosis of ARVD.[4] Since ARVD is an autosomal dominant trait, children of an ARVD patient have a 50% chance of inheriting the disease causing mutation. Whenever a mutation is identified by genetic testing, family-specific genetic testing can be used to differentiate between relatives who are at-risk for the disease and those who are not. ARVD genetic testing is clinically available.[5] In vitro MRI and corresponding cross section of Diagnostic Criteria the heart in ARVD show RV dilatation with anterior and posterior aneurysms (17 year old There is no pathognomonic feature of ARVD. The asymptomatic male athlete who died suddenly diagnosis of ARVD is based on a combination of during a soccer game). major and minor criteria. To make a diagnosis of ARVD requires either 2 major criteria or 1 major and 2 minor criteria or 4 minor criteria. Major Criteria • Right ventricular dysfunction • Severe dilatation and reduction of RV ejection fraction with little or no LV impairment • Localized RV aneurysms • Severe segmental dilatation of the RV • Tissue characterization • Fibrofatty replacement of myocardium on endomyocardial biopsy • Conduction abnormalities • Epsilon waves in V - V . 1 3 • Localized prolongation (>110 ms) of QRS in V - V 1 3 • Family history 6/10 • Familial disease confirmed on autopsy or surgery Minor Criteria • Right ventricular dysfunction • Mild global RV dilatation and/or reduced ejection fraction with normal LV. • Mild segmental dilatation of the RV • Regional RV hypokinesis • Tissue characterization • Conduction abnormalities • Inverted T waves in V and V in an individual over 12 years old, in the absence of a right 2 3 bundle branch block (RBBB) • Late potentials on signal averaged EKG. • Ventricular tachycardia with a left bundle branch block (LBBB) morphology • Frequent PVCs (> 1000 PVCs / 24 hours) • Family history • Family history of sudden cardiac death before age 35 • Family history of ARVD Natural history There is a long asymptomatic lead-time in individuals with ARVD. While
