Arrhythmogenic right ventricular
KEYWORDS: arvd, ventricular, right, disease, ventricle, right ventricular, cardiac, right ventricle, seen, tachycardia, individuals, wall, involved, death, free


Family history • Family history of sudden cardiac death before age 35 • Family history of ARVD Natural history There is a long asymptomatic lead-time in individuals with ARVD. While this is a genetically transmitted disease, individuals in their teens may not have any characteristics of ARVD on screening tests. Many individuals have symptoms associated with ventricular tachycardia, such as palpitations, light-headedness, or syncope. Others may have symptoms and signs related to right ventricular failure, such as lower extremity edema, or liver congestion with elevated hepatic enzymes. Unfortunately, sudden death may be the first manifestation of disease. ARVD is a progressive disease. Over time, the right ventricle becomes more involved, leading to right ventricular failure. The right ventricle will fail before there is left ventricular dysfunction. However, by the time the individual has signs of overt right ventricular failure, there will be histological involvement of the left ventricle. Eventually, the left ventricle will also become involved, leading to bi-ventricular failure. Signs and symptoms of left ventricular failure may become evident, including congestive heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and an increased incidence of thromboembolic events. Management The goal of management of ARVD is to decrease the incidence of sudden cardiac death. This raises a clinical dilemma: How to prophylactically treat the asymptomatic patient who was diagnosed during family screening. A certain subgroup of individuals with ARVD are considered at high risk for sudden cardiac death. Characteristics associated with high risk of sudden cardiac death include: • Young age • Competitive sports activity • Malignant familial history 7/10 • Extensive RV disease with decreased right ventricular ejection fraction. • Left ventricular involvement • Syncope • Episode of ventricular arrhythmia Management options include pharmacological, surgical, catheter ablation, and placement of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. Prior to the decision of the treatment option, programmed electrical stimulation in the electrophysiology laboratory may be performed for additional prognostic information. Goals of programmed stimulation include: • Assessment of the disease's arrhythmogenic potential • Evaluate the hemodynamic consequences of sustained VT • Determine whether the VT can be interrupted via antitachycardia pacing. Regardless of the management option chosen, the individual is typically suggested to undergo lifestyle modification, including avoidance of strenuous exercise, cardiac stimulants (i.e.: caffeine, nicotine, pseudoephedrine) and alcohol. If the individual wishes to begin an exercise regimen, an exercise stress test may have added benefit. Pharmacologic management Pharmacologic management of ARVD involves arrhythmia suppression and prevention of thrombus
