Arrhythmogenic right ventricular
KEYWORDS: arvd, ventricular, right, disease, ventricle, right ventricular, cardiac, right ventricle, seen, tachycardia, individuals, wall, involved, death, free


If the individual wishes to begin an exercise regimen, an exercise stress test may have added benefit. Pharmacologic management Pharmacologic management of ARVD involves arrhythmia suppression and prevention of thrombus formation. Sotalol, a beta blocker and a class III antiarrhythmic agent, is the most effective antiarrhythmic agent in ARVD. Other antiarrhythmic agents used include amiodarone and conventional beta blockers (i.e.: metoprolol). If antiarrhythmic agents are used, their efficacy should be guided by series ambulatory holter monitoring, to show a reduction in arrhythmic events. While angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE Inhibitors) are well known for slowing progression in other cardiomyopathies, they have not been proven to be helpful in ARVD. Individuals with decreased RV ejection fraction with dyskinetic portions of the right ventricle may benefit from long term anticoagulation with warfarin to prevent thrombus formation and subsequent pulmonary embolism. Catheter ablation Catheter ablation may be used to treat intractable ventricular tachycardia. It has a 60-90% success rate.[6] Unfortunately, due to the progressive nature of the disease, recurrence is common (60% recurrence rate), with the creation of new arrhythmogenic foci. Indications for catheter ablation include drug-refractory VT and frequent recurrence of VT after ICD placement, causing frequent discharges of the ICD. Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator An ICD is the most effective prevention against sudden cardiac death. Due to the prohibitive cost of ICDs, they are not routinely placed in all individuals with ARVD. Indications foCro IoCkieDs hpellpa ucse dmeleivnert oiunr stehrvei csees.t Btiyn ugsi nogf o AurR seVrvDic eisn, ycoluu adgere:e to our use of cookies. 8/10 • Cardiac arrest due to VT or VF • Symptomatic VT that is not inducible during programmed stimulation • Failed programmed stimulation-guided drug therapy • Severe RV involvement with poor tolerance of VT • Sudden death of immediate family member Since ICDs are typically placed via a transvenous approach into the right ventricle, there are complications associated with ICD placement and follow-up. Due to the extreme thinning of the RV free wall, it is possible to perforate the RV during implantation, potentially causing pericardial tamponade. Because of this, every attempt is made at placing the defibrillator lead on the ventricular septum. After a successful implantation, the progressive nature of the disease may lead to fibro-fatty replacement of the myocardium at the site of lead placement. This may lead to undersensing of the individual's electrical activity (potentially causing inability to sense VT or VF), and inability to pace
