S P
KEYWORDS: cid, agreement, patients, disease, children, remission, jpgn, pediatric, wiley online, wiley, online, online library, library, ibd, espghan


size, study design, The aforementioned retrospective study from the Porto group of concomitanttherapiesandmethodologicallimitations,theseagents ESPGHAN utilized the data of 537 children with colonic IBD, cannot currently be recommended for treating pediatric UC including260IBDU,toexplorecommontreatmentschemesandto (290,291,293). compare the treatment outcomes (298). This study demonstrated Asystematicreviewandameta-analysisreportednoefficacy thattreatmentforIBDUandUCwerebroadlysimilarwiththemost of omega-3 supplement for maintaining remission in UC (293– commontreatmentusedinitiallybeing5-ASA.Theuseofsteroids 295).Recently,aretrospectiveindividualcohortstudyof24adults waslowerthaninUC;thiopurinesandIFXusewasbroadlysimilar with IBD suggested efficacy and safety of intravenous immuno- topatientswithUCandlowerthanforpatientswithCrohndisease. globulinintheshort-termmanagement,whenstandardtherapiesare RatesofsurgerywerelowerthaninCrohndiseaseandUCandthe contraindicated(296).Thereare,however,noRCTsonitsroleboth disease was more likely to be mild at follow-up compared to the inadults andchildren. otherIBDsubtypes,despitethesimilaruseofmedicationsasinUC. ThissuggeststhattreatmentcanfollowthatofUCinitiallywitha5- Inflammatory Bowel Disease-unclassified ASAregimen. SURGICAL CONSIDERATIONS (RELATED TO Recommendation BOTH PART 1 AND 2 OF THESE GUIDELINES) 1. Treatment of IBDU patients should broadly follow The Surgeon’s Perspective thatofUCpatientsofasimilardiseaseseverity[EL4, adultEL5]. (98%agreement) Recommendations Practice Points 1. Electivecolectomyshouldbeconsideredinchildren 1. A diagnosis of IBDU should only be made after a withactive,orsteroid-dependent,UCdespiteopti- complete assessment including ileocolonoscopy, mized medical therapy, and in those with colonic gastroscopy, and small bowel imaging. (100% dysplasia[EL4, adult EL3]. (98%agreement) agreement) 2. Restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal 2. A lower threshold for disease reassessment should anastomosis (IPAA; J pouch) and a covering loop- beadoptedinpatientswithIBDUbeforetreatment ileostomyistherecommendedelectivesurgeryfor change. (95%agreement) pediatricUC[EL3,adultEL3].(93%agreement) 3. Althoughnotvalidatedforthisindication,it isrea- 3. Three-stage procedure (subtotal colectomy with sonable to use the PUCAI score to assess disease ileostomy first) is recommended for patients with activity also in IBDU given the similarity of IBDU, acuteseverecolitis,treatedwithhigh-dosesteroids, clinically,to UC.(98%agreement) or recent anti-TNF therapy, severe malnutrition, or 4. Amulti-itemalgorithmshouldbeusedtostandard- IBDU; however, the final choice of the surgical ize the diagnosis of IBDU (Fig. 1; Table 1). (98% approach should be individualized [EL4, adult agreement) EL3]. (98%agreement) www.jpgn.org 273 Copyright © ESPGHAN and NASPGHAN. All rights reserved. 15364801, 2018, 2, Downloaded from by CochraneItalia, Wiley Online Library on [[DATE]]. See the Terms and Conditions ( on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License Turner etal JPGN (cid:4)Volume 67, Number2,August 2018 4. A minimally invasive laparoscopic approach is concerning the best combination of procedures is dictated by the recommended in children as there are equivalent clinical status of the patient. Restorative procto-colectomy and outcomes to open surgery both for urgent and IPAA/IRA with covering ileostomy can be performed as a com- elective cases and possibly superior outcomes bined first stage for most ‘‘ambulatory’’ elective UC cases. regarding fertility in girls [EL4, adult EL3]. (100% The covering ileostomy is reversed several months later after agreement) confirmed healing of the pouch (299–303). Three-stage surgery 5.
