EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


vitro techniques have been employed to In vitro, the everted intestinal sac technique study the transport mechanism(s) involved. In of Wilson and Wiseman (10) has been extensively the living animal, calcium absorption has been used in calcium absorption studies (11-14). Others 64 THE JOURNAL OF CELL BIOLOGY . VOLUME 58, 1973 . pages 64-78 have employed intestinal ringlets (15, 16) or the chick duodenum during embryogenesis but squares (17) and intestinal tissue mounted in a only appeared at the time of hatching (28). The variety of Ussing-type (18) chambers (14, 17, 19, embryonic duodenum, a normal tissue presum- 20). These and other studies, too numerous to ably microbe-free, therefore, seemed a logical mention, have provided considerable insight choice for organ culture. Upon incubation of this into the phenomenon of vitamin D-mediated cal- tissue in medium containing vitamin Da, it was cium transport (21). However, a major difficulty found that CaBP was induced, that the induction existed in this research: it was never possible to was de novo and that, accompanying CaBP induc- be certain that perturbation of the system was a tion, there was enhanced radiocalcium uptake direct result of the physiological, nutritional, by the intestine (26), all features of the in vivo pathological, or pharmacological means em- calcium absorptive mechanism in the chick. ployed. This was true of the in vitro as well as The technique employed in those early studies in vivo studies since the vitamin D status of the was to simply immerse the embryonic gut in the intestine, and any alterations thereof, had been medium in a sealed flask. Gaseous exchange and established in vivo before the measurement of pH control were, thus, severely limited. It is the transport in vitro. An unrecognized technical purpose of the present report to describe a much problem of considerable importance also existed: improved organ culture technique, and some survival of the structural integrity of the tissue results obtained using it. in vitro is brief. Recent studies, for example, have shown that the mucosal structure of the MATERIALS AND METHODS everted rat intestine is completely lost within 60 Embryonated Eggs min of being immersed in a buffer solution (22). The fine structural integrity of the everted ham- Day-old White Leghorn embryonated eggs (Bab- ster intestine is well preserved for at least I h cock Poultry Farm, Inc., Ithaca, N.Y.) were incu- (23) but, at best, this still puts a severe
