EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


embryonated eggs (Bab- ster intestine is well preserved for at least I h cock Poultry Farm, Inc., Ithaca, N.Y.) were incu- (23) but, at best, this still puts a severe time bated at 37.5°C and 60% relative humidity (Peter- limitation on the types of agents or other variables sime Incubator Co., Gettysburg, Ohio). to which the intestine could be subjected in vitro . Culture Medium An alternative approach, which would allow close control of a wider range of variables in- McCoy's 5A (modified) medium without calcium fluencing calcium absorption and be more likely (Grand Island Biological Co., Grand Island, N.Y.) to allow separation of direct and indirect effects, was reconstituted from the dry powder within I mo is organ culture. However, this technique, as of use and sterile filtered through a 0.22-µm filter pioneered most notably by Strangeways and Fell (Millipore Corp., Bedford, Mass.). The antibiotics, neomycin sulfate, streptomycin sulfate, and sodium (24), although extensively applied by them and penicillin G (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo.), many others in morphological, developmental, were added on the day of an experiment at 100, 50, and biochemical studies of a number of tissues and 50 mg/liter (wt/vol), respectively. Nystatin (25), had not been applied to the study of the (Mycostatin, E. R. Squibb & Sons, New York), a vitamin D-mediated calcium transport mecha- fungicide, was added at the same time at 100 U/ml nism of the intestine until recently (26). In that medium. Crystalline vitamin D3 (Mann Research recent report was documented "the first demon- Labs. Inc., New York) and other sterols, when used, were added as ethanol solutions such that the ethanol stration of an in vitro physiological effect of vita- content of the medium was only 0.1 %. Calcium was min D a on . . . the intestine." added to the medium, usually to a level of 1.25 mM, Initial attempts to develop an intestinal organ as a sterile water solution at the time of experiment. culture system were motivated by the observation that the vitamin D-mediated, intestinal calcium- Culture Technique binding protein, CaBPI (27), was not present in The duodenal loop was excised from the 20-day chick embryo and the pancreas removed. (Earlier I Abbreviations used in this paper: Ca-ATPase, calcium- studies had shown that duodena from chick embryos dependent ATPase; CaBP, calcium-binding protein; at least as early as day 15 can also be cultured and are 25-OHD3,
