EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


of the culture period, the duodena were room temperature for 18-24 h. Standards, over the either homogenized in a motor-driven, ground glass, range of 10-300 µg DNA/ml, were prepared from tapered homogenizer (Tri-R Instruments, Inc., calf thymus DNA, Na salt, (Mann Research Labs.).in Rockville Centre, N.Y.) in 2 vol of a Tris buffer 5 mM NaOH and treated exactly as the homogenates. (0.0137 M Tris-HCI, 0.12 M NaCl, and 4.74 mM (Preliminary trials proved that initial nucleoprotein KCl; pH 7.4) preparatory to various assays, or sub- extraction, as described by Schneider (31), was un- jected to measurement of radiocalcium uptake and/or necessary since values ~or duodenal homogenate DNA transport asdescribed below. obtained by both methods were virtually identical.) 45ca UPTAKE : At the end of the culture period, Assay Procedures duodena which had been slit open were briefly rinsed with a low-sodium buffer solution (13) at room tem- TOTAL PROTEIN : Portions of duodenal ho- perature and transferred to 3 ml of the same buffer mogenates were solubilized in 100 vol of 1 N NaOH containing 0.5 µCi 45Ca/ml in a 25-m1 Erlenmeyer (2 h at room temperature). Total protein assay was flask maintained at 37.5°C in a shaking water bath. performed by the procedure of Lowry et al. (29) The flasks were sealed with rubber stoppers . After a using an automatic analyzer (Technicon Instru- 30-min incubation period, the guts were removed ments Corp., Tarrytown, N.Y.) and crystallized bo- from the flasks, rinsed thoroughly with ice-cold buffer, vine albumin (Pentex Biochemical, Kankakee, Ill.) blotted lightly on tissue, and weighed. They were in 1 N NaOH as a standard. then transferred to counting vials, I ml of NCS solu- ALKALINE PHOSPHATASE ACTIVITY : Por- bilizer added (Amersham/Searle Corp., Arlington tions of duodenal homogenates were solubilized in Heights, Ill.), the vials sealed and heated at 50°C in 50 vol of 1% sodium dodecyl sulfate (4 h at 37.5°C). an oven overnight. After cooling the vials, 50 p1 of Alkaline phosphatase activity was assessed by meas- concentrated acetic acid were added followed, after urement of the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenylphosphate mixing, by 20 ml of a cocktail composed of 5 g 2,5- (Sigma Kit 104s). diphenyloxazole and 0.1 g 1,4-bis[2-(5-phenyloxa- caaP ASSAY: Portions of duodenal homogen- zolyl)]benzene (Amersham/Searle Corp.) per liter of ates were analyzed for CaBP concentration by radial toluene. The samples were assayed for 45Ca activity immunodiffusion. The procedure consisted of
