EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


of duodenal homogen- zolyl)]benzene (Amersham/Searle Corp.) per liter of ates were analyzed for CaBP concentration by radial toluene. The samples were assayed for 45Ca activity immunodiffusion. The procedure consisted of filling in' a liquid scintillation counter (Nuclear-Chicago the wells of a Model FB-20 Disposo-Tray (Linbro Mark I; Nuclear-Chicago Corp., Des Plaines, Ill.). Chemical Co., Inc., New Haven, Conn.) with 0.5 ml Channels ratio measurement using a 133Ba external of a buffered agar solution (1.5% agar, 7.5% glycine, standard was always monitored but quench correc- and 0.02% thimerosal (all wt/vol) in barbital buffer, tion was not necessary since there was minimal vari- ionic strength 0.1 at pH 8.6) at 48°C containing 2% able quench in the samples. 45Ca uptake was calcu- (vol/vol) rabbit antiserum to purified chick intestinal latedaspercent of total 45Ca in the 3 ml of incubation CaBP. After gelling, a sample hole (2 mm) was cut buffer/100 mg fresh weight of duodenum. The data into the center of each agar well and 20 µl of duodenal were statistically analyzed in this form, but then con- homogenate dispensed into it. After a reaction period verted to percent of zero control for presentation. of 24 h in a humidified chamber, visible precipitin 45ca UPTAKE AND MUCOSAL TO SEROSAL rings formed around the central sample hole . The di- TRANSPORT: At the end of the culture period, the ameters of these rings were measured microscopically . everted duodenum was briefly rinsed with a low-so- 66 THE JOURNAL OF CELL BIOLOGY . VOLUME 58, 1973 dium buffer solution (13) at room temperature and a the cultured duodenum, the electropotential gradient ligature tied around one end. While injecting the across cultured everted sacs (see Culture Technique open end of the sac with 25 µl of the same buffer at above) was measured as a function of time in culture. 37.5°C, a second ligature was tightened around the Agar bridges were prepared by filling thin-wall Teflon needle and finally tied securely after withdrawal of the tubing (0.56-mm ID.; 0.25-mm wall) with a molten needle. The sac was then incubated, rinsed, and 3% (wt/vol) agar solution containing 20 g KCI. The weighed exactly as were the slit-open guts (see 45Ca -bridges were connected to a DC voltmeter, model 412 Uptake above). The sac was then transferred to a A"(Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif.) via calomel counting vial and cut open. As the serosal fluid drained reference
