EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


voltmeter, model 412 Uptake above). The sac was then transferred to a A"(Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif.) via calomel counting vial and cut open. As the serosal fluid drained reference electrodes, model 40250 (Beckman Instru- out, a 5-µl aliquot was taken and transferred to ments, Inc., Fullerton, Calif.) filled with a KCl-AgCI another counting vial. Guts and serosal fluid samples solution (Beckman no. 4787). At time intervals after were processed for counting exactly as given above initiation of culture, the everted duodenum was (see 45Ca Uptake). From a knowledge of the count filled with the culture medium and tied into a sac rate of the 5 µl of serosal fluid, a correction of the around the end of one agar bridge, the whole re- tissue count rate for contained serosal fluid was made. maining immersed in the culture medium. The end of The actual weight of the tissue was assumed to be 25 the other agar bridge was also immersed in the culture µg less than the weight of the sac plus contained serosal medium. The potential gradient existing across the fluid. intestine was then measured. A correction was made [3H]LEUCINE INCORPORATION : L[4,5-3H]- for the potential existing between the agar bridge leucine (Amersham/Searle Corp.) of specific activity tips when both were immersed in the culture medium. 38 Ci/mmole, was included in the culture medium (1 uCi/ml) to assess its time-dependent incorporation RESULTS into protein as one measure of the functional integrity of the duodenum in culture. At time intervals after Assessments of the Organ Culture Technique the initiation of culture, duodena were homogenized and the protein precipitated from portions with 50 vol SUITABILITY OF SERUM-FREE MEDIUM : of 10% TCA. After centrifugation, the precipitates A series of preliminary experiments proved the were washed with 200 vol of 10% TCA and recentri- suitability of serum-free medium for use in this fuged. (Preliminary trials proved that the recovery of culture technique. Of course the use of serum- protein from the whole homogenates in the TCA pre- free medium is an advantage since more clearly cipitates was better than 92%.) The precipitates were defined conditions are possible. Not only was then dissolved in I -ml NCS solubilizer, processed and serum found unnecessary, but several additives, counted as above (see 45Ca Uptake). Additional por- proven useful as serum substitutes by others work- tions of whole homogenate were analyzed for total ing with cell
