EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


but several additives, counted as above (see 45Ca Uptake). Additional por- proven useful as serum substitutes by others work- tions of whole homogenate were analyzed for total ing with cell culture, were also found unneces- protein by the method outlined above (see Total sary. The following serum substitutes were tried: Protein). [3H]THYMIDINE INCORPORATION: [Methyl- albumin (Pentex Biochemical) at I g/liter and/or 3H]thymidine (Amersham/Searle Corp.) of specific dextran (Sigma Chemical Co., 100,000-200,000 activity 23 Ci/mmole, was included in the culture daltons) at 10 g/liter; fraction VI glycoprotein medium (1 µCi/ml) to assess its time-dependent in- (Pentex Biochemical) at 10 mg/liter and/or corporation into DNA in an attempt to estimate the dextran at 10 g/liter (32). As will be seen, the degree of cell replication of the duodenum in culture. embryonic chick duodenum responds to vitamin At time intervals after the initiation of culture, duo- D3 in the serum-free culture medium by syn- dena were homogenized and the nucleoprotein pre- thesizing CaBP and exhibiting enhanced radio- cipitated from portions with 175 vol of ice-cold 7% calcium uptake and transport. The use of serum TCA. After centrifugation, the precipitates were or serum substitutes did not increase this re- washed with 200 vol of ice-cold 70/0 TCA and re- centrifuged. (Preliminary trials proved that the re- sponsiveness. Histologically, at the light micro- covery of DNA from the whole homogenates in the scopic level, the tissue is quite well preserved TCA precipitates was better than 96% .) The pre- even after 48 h of incubation at the surface of cipitates were then dissolved in 1-ml NCS solubilizer, serum-free medium (Fig. 1). At the electron processed and counted as above (see 45Ca Uptake). microscopic level, preliminary results with a Additional portions of whole homogenate were ana- few sections indicate no change in the fine struc- lyzed for DNA by the method outlined above (see ture of duodenal absorptive cells from either un- DNA). cultured duodena or duodena cultured for as MEASUREMENT OF ELECTROPOTENTIAL DIF- long as 48 h. These studies are continuing and FERENCE : As another indicator of the viability of being extended to include investigation of the R. A. CORRADINO Intestinal Calcium Absorptive Mechanism in Embryonic Chick 67 effects of various treatments on duodenal fine the observations of others (33). Preliminary structure. studies have been undertaken in which colchicine MITOSIS: Mitotic figures were less frequently was introduced into the culture medium to a seen
