EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


36 are the x ± SE; five guts per group. HOURS OF INCUBATION FIGURE 3 Embryonic chick intestine in organ culture: [3H]THYMIDINE INCORPORATION : Unlike time-course of response to vitamin D 3 in the culture radioleucine incorporation, the rate of [3H]thy- medium (±26µM) with respect to (A) CaBP synthesis midine incorporation into DNA reached a peak and (B) uptake of 45Ca. Closed circles, +D3 ; open cir- at 24 h of incubation and fell thereafter (Fig. 2). cles,-D3 . Values are thex ±SE; four to six guts per group. This decreased DNA synthesis probably was a reflection of the decline in mitosis referred to cant changes in total protein or DNA concentra- earlier. tions of duodena either as a function of vitamin MEASUREMENT OF ELECTROPOTENTIAL DIFFERENCE : The electrical potential across D3 in the medium or time of incubation and the everted, uncultured 20-day chick embryo values are, therefore, combined (Fig. 4). There was a slight decline in duodenal weight after 48 h duodenum averaged 2.2 mV (four duodena) of incubation. with the inside of the sac (serosal side) negative with respect to the outside. This value did not change appreciably over the entire 48-h period Dose-Response: Vitamin D3 , 25-OHD3 and (measured at 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48 h) and was 1,2540H)^2 still averaging 2.4 mV (lumen negative) at 48 h Slit-open embryonic chick duodena were in- (two duodena). cubated mucosal side up in the presence of vary- ing concentrations of vitamin D3, 25-hydroxy- Time-Course of Response to Vitamin D3 cholecalciferol (25-OHD3) (provided courtesy of Slit-open embryonic chick duodena were in- the Upjohn Co., Kalamazoo, Mich.) or 1,25- cubated mucosal side up in the presence of vita- dihydroxycholecalciferol (1 ,25-(OH)2D3) (gener- min D 3 in the medium (26 AM) for varying periods ously provided by Dr. A. W. Norman, Univer- of time. At each time interval, duodena were sity of California, Riverside) for 48 h. The latter assayed for total protein, CaBP, and 95Ca uptake compound, available only in minute quantities, as described above (Materials and Methods). was tested over a broad, but much lower, range CaBP was detected in duodena cultured in of concentration. Duodena were assayed for medium containing vitamin D3 as early as 6 h total protein, CaBP, alkaline phosphatase, and after the start of incubation and increased stead- 45Ca uptake as described above (Materials and ily with increasing incubation time (Fig. 3 A). A
