EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


mu- protein synthesis necessary for stimulation of cosal side up in the presence of vitamin D3 in the calcium absorption. Subcellular distribution medium (26 pM) for 48 h. They were then trans- studies lent credence to this concept since vitamin ferred to Erlenmeyer flasks containing 3 ml of D 3 and its metabolites were preferentially lo- low-sodium buffer and tracer amounts of either 65Zn, 63Ni, 80Co, 59Fe, 54Mn, 45Ca, or 32P. Duodena calized in intestinal cell nuclei (36-40). Other work showed that early actions of vitamin D3 in incubated in the presence of beta-emitting iso- the intestine were to stimulate DNA template topes (63Ni, 45Ca, 32P) were processed and counted activity (41) and RNA synthesis (42, 43), pre- at optimal counter settings as described above sumably, preparatory to synthesis of new protein . (Materials and Methods; 45Ca Uptake). Tissues The discovery of the intestinal, vitamin D-induced containing gamma emitters (85Zn, BOCo, 59Fe, calcium-binding protein (27) seemed to confirm and 64Mn) were dissolved in 10% NaOH and the predictions of these studies. CaBP was found assayed at optimal counter settings in a Nuclear- to be synthesized de novo on the basis of amino Chicago Auto Gamma Counter (Nuclear- acid-labeling studies (3, 44) and studies which Chicago Corp.). As expected, 45Ca uptake was showed that CaBP synthesis in rachitic chicks in- enhanced by vitamin D3 (Table III). In addition, jected with vitamin D3 was prevented by prior SsFe uptake was also stimulated by vitamin D3. injection of actinomycin D (45). Substantial 32P uptake was increased in tissue cultured in the correlative evidence has been accumulated link- presence of vitamin D3, and equally as much in ing CaBP to the vitamin D3 stimulation of cal- the presence or absence of calcium in the buffer cium transport (46-50). Most recently, direct solution (Table III). evidence was obtained in preliminary "recon- 3A preliminary report of this finding has already ap- stitution" experiments using the organ culture peared: A. N. Taylor and R. H. Wasserman. 1971. technique. When intact, everted duodena from Vitamin D-induced calcium-binding protein (CaBP) embryonic chicks were cultured in medium con- in chick kidney during embryonic development and taining purified chick intestinal CaBP but no growth. Fed. Proc. 30:407. (Abstr.) vitamin D3, increased absorption and mucosal- R. A. CORRADINO Intestinal Calcium Absorptive Mechanism in Embryonic Chick 73 to-serosal transport of radiocalcium was observed it was shown that intestinal Ca-ATPase and al- (51). On
