EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


absorption and mucosal- R. A. CORRADINO Intestinal Calcium Absorptive Mechanism in Embryonic Chick 73 to-serosal transport of radiocalcium was observed it was shown that intestinal Ca-ATPase and al- (51). On the basis of such information, it seems kaline phosphatase were probably the same en- likely that at least a portion of the lag period is a zyme although, again, a good correlation between result of induction of CaBP synthesis. In the pres- vitamin D-enhanced enzyme activity and calcium ent experiments, CaBP was first barely detectable transport was observed (61, 62). In the in vitro in duodena after 6 h of culture in the presence studies reported herein intestinal alkaline phos- of 26 AM vitamin D3 (Fig. 3 A). After 12-24 h, phatase activity was increased by the presence of a significant increase in 96Ca uptake was ob- vitamin D3 or 25-OHD3 in the culture medium served. In vivo work has shown a similar pattern (Table I) but at levels higher than required to of early synthesis of CaBP in response to vitamin demonstrate enhancement of 46Ca uptake (Fig. D3 after an initial lag period, followed by en- 5 A). Also, at a level of 1, 25-(OH)2D3 in the hancement of calcium absorption (3, 44). medium which stimulated maximal enhancement A portion of the lag period in vivo may also of 45Ca uptake, 65 nM (Fig. 6 A), alkaline phos- be the result of conversion of vitamin D3 to more phatase was not stimulated (Table I). Thus, the active metabolites, 25-OHD 3 formed in the liver correlation between alkaline phosphatase (and/or (52) and, to some extent, in the kidney (53), Ca-ATPase) and calcium absorption may not, and 1, 25-(OH)2D3 formed in the kidney (54). in fact, reflect an involvement of the enzyme(s) It has been contended that metabolism of vita- in calcium absorption. There are in vivo results min D3, via 25-OHD 3 to 1 ,25-(OH) 2D 3, is a which support this conclusion. When a high prerequisite of vitamin D3 action (55). However, strontium diet was fed to previously normal other work has shown that, at least for em- chicks, there was a rapid and complete inhibition bryonic chick intestine maintained in organ cul- of CaBP and a parallel inhibition of 97Ca (and ture, metabolism of vitamin D3 is unnecessary "Sr) absorption (48, 49). Alkaline phosphatase (56). activity also declined at a similar rate. However, Another significant parallel exists between
