EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


of 97Ca (and ture, metabolism of vitamin D3 is unnecessary "Sr) absorption (48, 49). Alkaline phosphatase (56). activity also declined at a similar rate. However, Another significant parallel exists between in if the chicks were returned to a normal diet, vivo and in vitro responses to vitamin D 3 metab- after 7 days on the high strontium diet, CaBP olites. It has been shown that 25-OHD3 and was rapidly restored to normal (49). By the end 1, 25-(OH) 2D 3 are faster acting and more potent of a week, CaBP had, in fact, risen to well above than vitamin D3 in vivo (57, 58). While a time normal. 85Sr absorption, a well-established corre- study was not conducted in the present case, it is late of calcium absorption, was also reinstated to a evident that 25-OHD3 and most especially, normal and, finally, a supranormal level in very 1, 25-(OH) 2D3 are more potent than vitamin D3 close correlation with CaBP synthesis. On the in vitro (Figs. 5 and 6). While 45Ca uptake was other hand, alkaline phosphatase activity rose to stimulated by all vitamin D3 analogues tested normal within 2 days and merely stayed at this at a minimum of 65 nM in the culture medium, level through the week. In another study, the it was clear that induction of CaBP synthesis was vitamin D3-Stimulated increase in intestinal the more sensitive response. This provides sup- brush border alkaline phosphatase (or Ca- port for in vivo observations showing that CaBP ATPase) activity was inhibitable by inclusion of synthesis is a preliminary response to vitamin D3 phenylalanine in the assay medium (62). How- analogues, after which there is enhancement of ever, the corresponding vitamin D3 enhancement calcium absorption (3, 44). The data in Fig. 3 of 95Ca uptake and mucosal-to-serosal transport bear this out directly, in the case of vitamin D3 by everted ileal sacs was not inhibited by the itself, for the organ culture system. inclusion of phenylalanine in the mucosal bathing In vivo studies have shown that vitamin D3 solution during incubation. On the basis of these stimulates the activity of a calcium-dependent in vivo results, and the present in vitro data, it ATPase (Ca-ATPase) in brush borders isolated must be concluded that the correlations observed from chick intestinal mucosal cells (59). The between alkaline phosphatase (or Ca-ATPase) time-course of stimulation of Ca-ATPase activity and the functioning of the calcium absorptive
