EMBRYONIC CHICK INTESTINE IN ORGAN CULTURE
KEYWORDS: vitamin, calcium, culture, medium, cabp, intestinal, chick, intestine, protein, uptake, transport, absorption, embryonic, activity, studies


concluded that the correlations observed from chick intestinal mucosal cells (59). The between alkaline phosphatase (or Ca-ATPase) time-course of stimulation of Ca-ATPase activity and the functioning of the calcium absorptive correlated well with vitamin D3 enhancement of mechanism may be only coincidental. calcium transport. A similar correlation between The data of Table II are of interest because brush border alkaline phosphatase activity and they established that the organ-cultured intestine calcium transport was also shown (60). Later, not only responded to vitamin D 3 by exhibiting 74 THE JOURNAL OF CELL BIOLOGY • VOLUME 58, 1973 enhanced 45Ca uptake, but also maintained a likely that the organ culture system described mucosal-to-serosal transport system for calcium, will prove useful not only in the study ofthe vita- mimicking precisely the in vivo situation. The min D-mediated, intestinal calcium absorptive relative simplicity ofthe culture procedure, along mechanism but in other studies of intestinal func- with the ability to rigorously control the environ- tion as well. ment of the tissue, makes the use of cultured, everted intestine an almost ideal system for the Thanks are due Mrs. Susan Travis and Karen study of intestinal function. It is certainly well Bucher Ni for their technical assistance, to Mr. suited to investigation ofthe vitamin D-mediated Michael Dougherty for the histological preparations, calcium absorptive mechanism, but it should also to Mr. Louis Lippiello for initial EM work, and to be adaptable to studies of the absorption of other Dr. R. H. Wasserman for his continuing interest and encouragement and for his critical evaluation of the nutrients, drugs, hormones, etc. manuscript. As one indication of the culture system's This work was supported by National Institutes of Not only does the cultured intestine exhibit a and AEC Contract AT(l l-1)-3167. vitamin D-mediated increase in calcium uptake, Received for publication 9 August 1972, and in revised form but also an increase in s2P, "Fe, and, perhaps, a 27 March 1973. slight increase in 60Co uptake. For years there have been indications that vitamin D stimulates REFERENCES phosphorus absorption (63). One important question has been whether vitamin D controls 1. NICOLAYSEN, R. 1937. Studies upon the mode distinct calcium and phosphorus pumps, or a of action of vitamin D. IV. The absorption single pump with one ion following the other of calcium chloride, xylose and sodium passively. Recent evidence favors the former sulphate from isolated loops of the small in- possibility (64,
