HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


with the policies and procedures of the CAG and under the direction of CAG Clinical Affairs. It has been reviewed by the CAG Clinical Affairs Committee and the CAG Board of Directors. The CPG was developed after a thorough consideration of the medical literature and the best available evidence and clinical experience. It represents the consensus of a Canadian and international panel comprising experts on this topic. The CPG aims to provide a reasonable and practical approach to care for specialists and allied scientific knowledge and technology advance and as practice patterns evolve. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Management of Nonvariceal Upper Gastrointestinal Bleeding: Guideline Recommendations From the International Consensus Group Haven, Connecticut Disclosures: Dr. Barkun reports grants and consulting fees from and advisory board membership at Pendopharm and At-Gen, and advisory membership at Olympus and Cook, outside the submitted work. Dr. Chan reports grants from the Research Grant Council of Hong Kong during the conduct of the study and advisory board membership at Pfizer, AstraZeneca, the Rome Foundation, Antibe Therapeutics, and the AGA Council; personal fees and honoraria from Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Eisai, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, EA Kong and China, Medical Association of Guangdong Province, and Associacao Dos Medicos Hospitalares Da Funcao Publica De Macau; personal fees and royalties from Wiley; grants from Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Given Imaging, Osaka Singapore, outside the submitted work. Dr. Douketis reports personal fees from Boehringer Ingelheim, Janssen, Pfizer, Bayer, Bristol- Myers Squibb, Sanofi, and Daiichi Sankyo outside the submitted work. Dr. Gralnek reports personal fees from Boston Scientific and Taro Pharmaceuticals outside the submitted work. Dr. Jairath reports personal fees from AbbVie, Takeda, Pfizer, Sandoz, Janssen, Endoscopy Research Foundation; grants and personal fees from Vascular Technology; and personal fees from Boston Scientific outside the submitted work. Dr. Lip reports consulting and speakers fees from Bayer, Bayer/Janssen, BMS/ Pfizer, Biotronik, Medtronic, Boehringer Ingelheim, Microlife, Roche, and Daiichi Sankyo outside the submitted work. Dr. Meltzer reports an active research grant from Medtronic to study gastrointestinal bleeding and serves on an advisory board for AnX Robotics. Dr. Saltzman reports personal fees from Cook Endoscopy outside the submitted work. Authors not named here have disclosed no conflicts of interest. Disclosures can also be viewed at www.acponline.org/authors/icmje/ConflictOfInterestForms.do?msNum=M19–1795. Disclaimer: The CPG is not intended as a substitute for physicians using their individual judgment in managing clinical care in consultation with the patient, with appropriate regard to all
