HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


(PPI) therapy (intravenous loading dose followed by continuous infusion) for 3 days. For these high-risk patients, continued oral PPI therapy is suggested twice daily through 14 days, then once daily for a total duration that depends on the nature of the bleeding lesion. Secondary prophylaxis: The group suggests PPI therapy for patients with previous ulcer bleeding who require antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy for cardiovascular prophylaxis. Acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB) is common, but the annual incidence has been decreasing: from 78 to 61 cases in 100 000 persons from 2001 to 2009 in one survey (1). Nonetheless, 30-day mortality remains high, at up to 11% (2). The most recent guidelines for managing UGIB were published primarily between 2010 and 2015, including those from our group (in 2003, with an update in 2010) (3, 4), the American 2012) (7), and the European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (in 2015) (8). More recently, guidelines from the Asia-Pacific Working Group were updated in 2018 (9). The management of UGIB has advanced with new endoscopic techniques, and the pharmacologic landscape has changed. Anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy, including Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript combination therapy, is becoming more common, substantially increasing the risk for UGIB (10). Thus, the International Consensus Group agreed that an update to the 2010 recommendations for the management of UGIB (4) was warranted. Methods Scope and Purpose Similar to the 2003 (3) and 2010 (4) guidelines, this update focuses on resuscitation and risk assessment; preendoscopic, endoscopic, and pharmacologic management; and secondary prophylaxis for recurrent UGIB. Specific PICO (patient population, intervention, comparator, and outcome) questions were developed by the cochairs (A.N.B. and M.B.), steering committee (L.L., M.A., J.S., and E.J.K.), and GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) methodologists (F.T. and G.I.L.) and finalized through a consensus process of iterative discussions with all other voting participants. Sources, Literature Searches, and Systematic Reviews Sources included the evidentiary base of previous guidelines (3, 4) and English-language literature searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE (Elsevier), the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (Wiley), and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Wiley) done by the editorial office of the Cochrane Upper Gastrointestinal and Pancreatic Diseases Group at McMaster University. Initial searches were conducted from database inception to 2 April 2018, with supplemental, focused searches to mid-May 2018. Key search terms and details of search
