HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


Diseases Group at McMaster University. Initial searches were conducted from database inception to 2 April 2018, with supplemental, focused searches to mid-May 2018. Key search terms and details of search strategies are shown in Supplement Appendix 1 (available at Annals.org). Conference abstracts, case reports, and studies in animals were excluded. Teams of reviewers (A.B., M.B., X.C., L.L., G.I.L., and F.T.) screened titles and abstracts in duplicate and independently, and obtained full texts of potentially relevant studies. Reviewers also scanned bibliographies of retrieved systematic reviews. The cochairs, steering committee, and methodologists then selected the studies relevant for each PICO question. Discrepancies regarding inclusion were resolved by consensus. A modified version of AMSTAR-2 (A Measurement Tool to Assess Systematic Reviews) (11) was used as a decision tool to assess the methodological quality of existing systematic reviews. We selected the most recent of the well-conducted, relevant systematic reviews as our baseline source. Selected reviews were used wholly or partially (with only some of the following components: included studies, study characteristics, numerical data extractions, forest plots, or risk-of-bias tables) and were updated or improved as needed by adding new studies, removing inappropriate studies, or further assessing the quality of the included studies (Supplement Appendix 2, available at Annals.org). Assessment of the Quality of Evidence The methodologists (F.T. and G.I.L.) assessed risk of bias, indirectness, inconsistency, imprecision, and other limitations (including publication bias) of the evidence by using the Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript GRADE approach (12). Overall quality of evidence (QoE) was graded as very low, low, moderate, or high for each recommendation. Evidence profiles (GRADE tables) were prepared for each PICO question and contained clear descriptions of benefits and harms as well as a QoE rating for individual outcomes. The profiles, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses were made available to voting participants 1 week before the consensus meeting (Supplement Appendix 2). One statement (A1) met the criteria for “good practice” (13). The consensus group agreed that this recommendation was clinically obvious and that collection and analysis of evidence were unnecessary. Consensus Process Participants in the multidisciplinary consensus group were from 11 countries and included gastroenterologists, a cardiologist, a hematologist, a radiologist, a surgeon, and an emergency medicine specialist. The meeting included up to 20 voting participants for each statement (numbers varied, mainly because of travel difficulties), 2 nonvoting GRADE methodologists,
