HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


radiologist, a surgeon, and an emergency medicine specialist. The meeting included up to 20 voting participants for each statement (numbers varied, mainly because of travel difficulties), 2 nonvoting GRADE methodologists, and a nonvoting moderator (J.K.M). The cochairs, other steering committee members, and methodologists generated a list of new and old statements that were presented to the group through an anonymous, Web-based consensus platform (ECD Solutions). Via teleconference, the steering committee members reached consensus on which statements warranted inclusion in the guideline by focusing on priority areas. Using a modified Delphi process (14), all voting participants modified and finalized the new statements. After reviewing the evidence profiles, the participants anonymously voted on their degree of agreement or disagreement with each statement and submitted comments. Votes were nonbinding and designed to gauge the extent of agreement and the pattern of evidence uncertainty to guide the allotment of time for discussion during the meeting. The Canadian Association of Gastroenterology (CAG) office tabulated the votes and comments and presented the results to the group. Although initially discussed in the form of declarative statements, these were edited into specific PICO questions by the methodologists before the consensus meeting. At a 2-day consensus meeting in May 2018, the group applied the GRADE Evidence to Decision framework to move from evidence to recommendations by assessing 7 key criteria: the balance between desirable and undesirable effects, quality (certainty) of the evidence, variability in patients’ values and preferences, resource requirements, cost-effectiveness, acceptability, and feasibility (Supplement Appendix 2) (15–17). Participants voted on the direction of the PICO question (for or against) as yes, uncertain, or no. Consensus for or against a specific strategy was reached if at least 75% of the participants voted yes or no, respectively. For PICO questions on which agreement was reached, the group then discussed the strength of the recommendation (strong vs. conditional) by considering the factors in the Evidence to Decision framework (18). In cases of low or very low QoE, unless at least 1 of the other 3 factors was overwhelmingly strong, the strength of the recommendation would default (without a vote) to “conditional” by using the phrase “we suggest.” If the statement Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript warranted a vote and at least 75% of the participants voted “strong,” then the recommendation would be designated as strong with the
