HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript warranted a vote and at least 75% of the participants voted “strong,” then the recommendation would be designated as strong with the phrase “we recommend.” Consensus was not reached on 4 PICO questions (no recommendation A to D), because fewer than 75% of the participants voted either yes or no. No corresponding statements were developed for these questions, but the pertinent evidence and discussions are summarized briefly in the text. Oversight and Review The guideline process was overseen by the CAG clinical affairs committee to ensure methodological quality and a transparent, nonbiased, evidence-based decision-making process. Recommendations are based on evidence from the literature and consensus discussion and may not fully reflect the product labeling for a given country. The manuscript was initially drafted by the cochairs (A.N.B. and M.B.) and the GRADE experts (F.T. and G.I.L.). It was reviewed and revised by the steering committee members (E.J.K., J.S., L.L., and M.A.) before dissemination to the full consensus group for feedback. Finally, the manuscript was posted on the CAG Web site, and members were invited via e- mail to submit comments over a 2-week period. In accordance with CAG policy, written conflict-ofinterest disclosures for the 24 months preceding the consensus meeting were provided by all participants and made available to the group. Role of the Funding Source Funding for the consensus meeting was provided by unrestricted, arms-length grants to the Health Research and the Saudi Gastroenterology Association. The CAG administered all aspects of the meeting; the funding sources had no involvement in, nor were they made aware of, any part of the process, from the development of search strings and statements to drafting and approving these guidelines. Recommendation Statements for UGIB Each statement is followed by the strength of evidence based on GRADE analyses and a discussion of the evidence. The voting results are shown in Table 1, along with summaries of the new recommendations established from this consensus, recommendations that were revised from the 2003 and 2010 guidelines (3, 4), and recommendations that were unchanged because most of the group believed that they currently did not require revision (3, 4). Section A: Resuscitation, Risk Assessment, and Preendoscopy Management Statement A1—For patients with acute UGIB and hemodynamic instability, resuscitation should be initiated. (Designated a good practice statement.) Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author
