HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


acute UGIB and hemodynamic instability, resuscitation should be initiated. (Designated a good practice statement.) Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Discussion: Fluid resuscitation should be initiated in patients with UGIB and hemodynamic instability, because hemorrhagic shock may lead to multiorgan failure and death. The goals of fluid resuscitation are to restore end-organ perfusion and tissue oxygenation while steps are taken to control bleeding. Uncertainty remains regarding the type of fluid (colloid vs. crystalloid) and the rate and timing of resuscitation (aggressive vs. restrictive). A Cochrane systematic review including 70 randomized controlled trials found no difference in mortality between critically ill patients who received colloids (albumin or plasma protein fraction, hydroxyethyl starch, modified gelatin, dextran, colloids in hypertonic crystalloid, or colloids in isotonic crystalloid) and those who received crystalloids (normal saline, Ringer lactate, or hypertonic saline) for fluid resuscitation (19). One small randomized trial conducted in patients with UGIB who had hemorrhagic shock found no statistically significant difference in mortality between hypertonic saline dextran and Ringer lactate (relative risk [RR], 0.18 [95% CI, 0.02 to 1.41]) (20). A large trial, published after the systematic review, that included 2857 critically ill patients showed no difference in 28-day mortality between those given colloids and those who received crystalloids (21). The trial found an unexpected borderline reduction in 90-day mortality among patients receiving colloids (RR, 0.92 [CI, 0.86 to 0.99])—a finding that was considered hypothesis generating (21). Because current evidence does not show that colloids increase survival rates compared with crystalloids and because colloids justified (19). Uncertainty also exists regarding the type of crystalloid for use in fluid resuscitation. A recent randomized trial in 15 802 critically ill patients found a small reduction in acute kidney injury (odds ratio [OR], 0.91 [CI, 0.84 to 0.99]) and a possible small reduction in in- hospital mortality (10.3% vs. 11.1%; P = 0.08) with balanced crystalloids (such as Ringer lactate) vs. saline (22). Animal models have shown that early aggressive fluid resuscitation to increase blood pressure to normal values may exacerbate blood loss, disrupt coagulation, and increase mortality (23, 24). The alternative is restrictive or hypotensive resuscitation, in which fluid is given but the target end point is less than normotension. A Cochrane systematic review included 6 randomized trials that examined timing and volume of fluid administration in settings, types of fluids, and resuscitation
