HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


target end point is less than normotension. A Cochrane systematic review included 6 randomized trials that examined timing and volume of fluid administration in settings, types of fluids, and resuscitation protocols (25). None found restrictive fluid resuscitation (with a delayed or smaller volume of fluid) to be inferior to more aggressive fluid resuscitation (with an early or a larger volume of fluid) with regard to mortality (25). Two randomized trials published since the review also found no differences in mortality between restrictive and aggressive resuscitation in patients with trauma and hemorrhagic shock (26, 27). The consensus group agreed that the evidence was insufficient to make a recommendation regarding restrictive fluid resuscitation. The important issue in patients with hemorrhagic shock due to trauma or UGIB is to stop the bleeding while minimizing hemodynamic compromise. Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Statement A2a—For patients with acute UGIB, we suggest using a Glasgow Blatchford score of 1 or less to identify patients who are at very low risk for rebleeding or mortality and thus may not require hospitalization or inpatient endoscopy. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence) No Recommendation A—For patients with acute UGIB, the consensus group could not make a recommendation for or against using the preendoscopic Rockall prognostic scale to identify patients who are at very low risk for rebleeding or mortality and thus may not require hospitalization or inpatient endoscopy. (GRADE for PICO: very low-quality evidence) Statement A2b—For patients with acute UGIB, we suggest against using the AIMS65 prognostic score to identify patients who are at very low risk for rebleeding or mortality and thus may not require hospitalization or inpatient endoscopy. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Evidence profiles for the 3 beststudied prognostic scores (Glasgow Blatchford [GBS], preendoscopic Rockall, and AIMS65) were considered separately. The QoE review focused on studies that assessed the use of preendoscopic scoring systems to identify patients at very low risk for undesirable outcomes. No randomized trials that directly assessed the clinical impact of using versus not using prognostic scales were identified. Therefore, the evidence was derived from “before-after” studies (28) and studies of diagnostic test accuracy that assessed the surrogate outcome of diagnostic (prognostic) accuracy of the scales. A before-after study by Stanley and colleagues (28) assessed a strategy of not admitting emergency department patients with UGIB who were predicted
