HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


outcome of diagnostic (prognostic) accuracy of the scales. A before-after study by Stanley and colleagues (28) assessed a strategy of not admitting emergency department patients with UGIB who were predicted to be at very low risk for undesirable outcomes (GBS of 0). This reduced the number of hospitalization, and no difference was demonstrated in safety outcomes, although the study was not powered for safety outcomes. The relevant evidence included 2 high-quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses of studies of diagnostic test accuracy (7, 29) as well as 2 additional studies notable for their quality and sample sizes (30, 31). The sensitivity of low cutoff values for detecting patients at high risk for undesirable clinical outcomes was very good for the GBS (0.99) and preendoscopic Rockall score (range, 0.93 to 0.96, but with more heterogeneity), and lower for AIMS65 (range, 0.78 to 0.82) (Appendix Table 1, available at Annals.org) (7, 29–31). For the GBS and AIMS65, the QoE was low, with the evidence being downgraded for indirectness, imprecision, and inconsistency. For the preendoscopic Rockall score, QoE was very low, with the evidence being downgraded for the same reasons plus risk of bias. Discussion: Use of prognostic scales and early discharge of patients at low risk have the Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript increasing harms. Sensitivity for detecting high-risk patients is a critical outcome, because it is important to avoid incorrectly classifying high risk as low risk when making decisions about early discharge. Specificity is less crucial, because low specificity results in more low- risk patients being hospitalized but not in high-risk patients being discharged. Patient preferences also should be considered; some patients may prefer diagnostic certainty, whereas others may prefer not to be hospitalized. Other factors when considering early access to out-of-hours endoscopy, and reimbursement issues. Whether using a prognostic scale results in better patient outcomes than using clinical consensus group agreed that use of a prognostic scoring system would help ensure consistent risk assessment and communication. Education is now needed to embed a scoring tool into clinical practice (such as in electronic medical records). The consensus group suggests the GBS as the preferred prognostic tool because of its high sensitivity (misclassifying ≤1% of high-risk patients as low risk). The preendoscopic Rockall scale has good sensitivity, but it may misclassify 4% to 7% of high-risk patients. Given differing
