HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


its high sensitivity (misclassifying ≤1% of high-risk patients as low risk). The preendoscopic Rockall scale has good sensitivity, but it may misclassify 4% to 7% of high-risk patients. Given differing views regarding the threshold sensitivity for discharge, the consensus group could not make a recommendation for or against use of the preendoscopic Rockall score. The AIMS65 was designed to be used with high cutoff values to identify patients at high risk for death (32) rather than those at low risk for safe discharge. The consensus group suggested not using AIMS65 in this setting, because even at low cutoff values approximately 20% of high-risk patients may be misclassified as low risk. Statement A4—In patients with acute UGIB without underlying cardiovascular disease, we suggest giving blood transfusions for those with a hemoglobin level less than 80 g/L. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Evidence for a hemoglobin threshold for the effectiveness and safety of red blood cell transfusions was available from a summary of studies comparing restrictive (70 to 80 g/L) versus liberal (90 to 100 g/L) transfusion thresholds for patients with acute UGIB (33). In the systematic review of 5 randomized controlled trials in patients with UGIB (n = 1965), restrictive transfusion was associated with a lower risk for allcause mortality (RR, 0.65 [CI, 0.45 to 0.97]) and further bleeding (RR, 0.58 [CI, 0.40 to 0.84]) (33) (Appendix Table 2, available at Annals.org). No subgroup differences were found with regard to risks for myocardial infarction, stroke or transient ischemic attack, or acute kidney injury (33), or to the rate of surgical or radiologic intervention between the 2 strategies (34, 35). These data were downgraded for serious risk of bias and serious indirectness. However, the QoE for the superiority of the restrictive transfusion strategy is higher (less indirectness) than the QoE for specific thresholds of transfusion. Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Two other systematic reviews and meta-analyses that provided supportive data on patients in loss or trauma, critical care, acute myocardial infarction, and hematologic cancer) including UGIB, found no difference in 30-day mortality, rebleeding, cardiac events, myocardial infarction, or stroke between the 2 strategies in the combined patient groups (36, 37). Discussion: The data suggest that a restrictive transfusion strategy is beneficial in patients with UGIB (33) and is not associated with adverse events (36, 37). The
