HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


patient groups (36, 37). Discussion: The data suggest that a restrictive transfusion strategy is beneficial in patients with UGIB (33) and is not associated with adverse events (36, 37). The restrictive threshold led to a decrease in the proportion of patients exposed to transfusions (36, 37) and in the mean number of units transfused (33). A study assessing direct and indirect costs reported that the total cost per red blood cell unit in 2008 was approximately $760 (38). Although cost per unit may vary greatly across institutions, a restrictive strategy is probably the least expensive. Only 3 randomized trials provided mortality data in the UGIB-specific review, with 2 high- quality trials providing 98.2% of the weight in the meta-analysis (33). A single-center study found reductions in mortality and rebleeding with a hemoglobin threshold of 70 g/L versus 90 g/L (35), whereas a cluster randomized trial found no reduction in mortality or rebleeding with a threshold of 80 g/L versus 100 g/L (34). Although it did not look at hemoglobin thresholds, 1 trial in UGIB patients with hemodynamic instability found no difference in mortality between early versus delayed blood transfusion; however, the study was underpowered (RR, 5.4 [CI, 0.3 to 107.1]) (39). Factors that may affect the timing of transfusions include the availability of venipuncture staff, capacity for frequent assessments, timing of blood typing, availability of units, hemodilution factors, and degree of hemodynamic stability. In addition, some patients may have underlying, undiagnosed cardiovascular disease, potentially placing them at higher risk for negative outcomes. Therefore, the consensus group suggested that a more conservative hemoglobin threshold of 80 g/L is prudent, with a target of greater than 80 g/L. The threshold recommendation does not apply to patients with exsanguinating bleeding. In the setting of acute blood loss, hemoglobin values may initially remain unchanged from baseline because of plasma equilibrium times. In such situations, transfusion should not be dictated by current hemoglobin level alone but should take into account the predicted drop in hemoglobin and the patient’s clinical status. Statement A5—In patients with acute UGIB and underlying cardiovascular disease, we suggest giving blood transfusions at a higher hemoglobin threshold than for those without cardiovascular disease. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Two meta-analyses, 1 in patients with UGIB (33) and 1 in patients with trial (34) that provided subgroup data on patients with and without cardiovascular disease. This small, underpowered trial (34)
