HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


meta-analyses, 1 in patients with UGIB (33) and 1 in patients with trial (34) that provided subgroup data on patients with and without cardiovascular disease. This small, underpowered trial (34) found no significant difference between liberal (hemoglobin threshold, 100 g/L) and restrictive (hemoglobin threshold, 80 g/L) transfusion Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with regard to mortality (RR, 4.10 [CI, 0.86 to 19.47]) (40) or further bleeding in adults with or without ischemic heart disease (RR, 0.50 [CI, 0.23 to 1.12], and RR, 0.69 [CI, 0.13 to 3.77]) (33). This study was downgraded for serious risk of bias (lack of blinding, possible selection bias) and very serious imprecision (very small sample size). Reanalysis of the overall data from the meta-analysis of 11 trials in patients with cardiovascular disease (40) found no significant differences between the liberal (90 to 113 g/L) and restrictive (70 to 97 g/L) strategies with regard to 30-day mortality (RR, 0.87 [CI, 0.67 to 1.13]) or acute pulmonary edema (RR, 1.58 [CI, 0.55 to 4.53]) but did find a reduced risk for cardiovascular events with the liberal transfusion strategy (RR, 0.56 [CI, 0.37 to 0.85]). This analysis was downgraded for serious risk of bias, very serious indirectness, and serious imprecision. Because of the variation in outcomes included in the trials as well as in the meta-analyses, several sensitivity analyses were conducted. Although the results became more imprecise, the direction of effect did not change. Discussion: The data suggest that a more liberal hemoglobin threshold for transfusion may be associated with a lower risk for cardiovascular events in patients with cardiovascular disease. This is based on data from studies in various clinical settings with heterogeneous patient subgroups (such as those with coronary syndromes, ischemic heart disease, congestive heart failure, peripheral vascular disease, or stroke or those with only cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension and diabetes). The effects of liberal versus restrictive transfusion strategies may differ among various subgroups. In addition, various definitions were used for the restrictive and liberal groups, including hemoglobin levels and the presence of anemia, and hemoglobin cutoff values varied. On the basis of these limited data, the consensus group suggested that a higher hemoglobin threshold be considered in patients with cardiovascular disease than in those without it (<80 g/L; statement A4). The group did not recommend a specific cutoff, stating
