HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) and those receiving warfarin. However, patients using warfarin had a greater need for transfusion (4.3 ± 5.9 units vs. 2.2 ± 3.1 units; P = 0.046). Periendoscopic use of a reversal agent (vitamin K) was associated with a higher risk for thromboembolism but not rebleeding, whereas anticoagulant interruption did not affect the risk for either outcome. The results of anticoagulant use in patients with UGIB were not reported separately, but UGIB was associated with a higher rate of endoscopic therapy and transfusions compared with lower gastrointestinal bleeding, suggesting that the combined results may not be entirely generalizable to patients with UGIB (42). This study was downgraded for serious indirectness and imprecision. Discussion: For patients receiving anticoagulants, the 2010 UGIB guidelines suggested that coagulopathy be corrected but that endoscopy not be delayed (4). This recommendation was made on the basis of cohort studies suggesting that early endoscopy (≤24 hours) may be performed safely in patients using anticoagulants after partial correction of the INR, without an increase in rebleeding rates versus persons not using anticoagulants (45, 46). In the study by Nagata and colleagues (42), anticoagulant interruption did not affect risks and no increased risk was found in patients with an INR of 2.5 or greater. The consensus group cannot specify an INR cutoff level that should prompt correction of the INR. Although available new data were limited, the introduction of DOACs prompted the update to this recommendation. Nagata and colleagues (42) found that patients receiving DOACs had less need for transfusion than those receiving warfarin. The DOACs have a short half- life—8 to 12 hours—and their anticoagulant effect resolves more rapidly than that of warfarin. Reversal agents are now available, although criteria for their use in patients with UGIB are not yet defined and availability may be limited in some areas. Whether the type or extent of anticoagulation would affect the type of endoscopic hemostatic therapy was not addressed. Other guidelines recommend administration of vitamin K supplemented with intravenous prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), with use of fresh frozen plasma only if PCC is unavailable (8, 9, 47). Four-factor PCC has demonstrated efficacy in correcting INR (43, 44), as have specifically targeted anticoagulant reversal agents (48, 49). Some data suggest a Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript higher risk for thrombosis with rapid reversal of
