HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


data suggest a Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript higher risk for thrombosis with rapid reversal of anticoagulation (42, 48), but this is beyond the scope of these guidelines. The consensus group agreed that the degree of coagulopathy should be assessed objectively before therapeutic decisions are made. The anticoagulant agent, patient physiology, and patient compliance with therapy may affect anticoagulation. Because of the recognized benefits of early endoscopy (statement B3), coagulopathy should be treated as necessary but endoscopy should not be delayed. Section B: Endoscopic Management Statement B3—For patients admitted with acute UGIB, we suggest performing early endoscopy (within 24 hours of presentation). (GRADE: conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Evidence for early endoscopy was assessed separately for patients at low and high risk for unfavorable outcomes (death, rebleeding) (Supplement Appendix 2). Low-risk patients: Two systematic reviews (4, 50) including 3 randomized trials (51–53) assessed the timing of endoscopy in patients with UGIB. Two of the trials included low-risk patients randomly assigned to early versus later endoscopy (within 1 to 2 hours vs. 1 to 2 days , or within 6 hours vs. 48 hours ). No differences in mortality or rebleeding were found between groups in either trial (52, 53), but 1 study found that early endoscopy reduced length of stay and cost of care (52). The QoE was downgraded for serious risk of bias, indirectness, and very serious imprecision. Observational studies were seriously confounded by severity of bleeding and comorbidity, which may bias the results in favor or against early endoscopy. Three retrospective cohort studies included exclusively or separately reported data on low-risk patients and adjusted for confounders (54–56). In 1 study, urgent endoscopy was a predictor of negative outcomes (composite of death; rebleeding; and surgical, radiologic, or endoscopic intervention) among low-risk patients with UGIB (adjusted OR, 0.71 per 6 hours [CI, 0.55 to 0.91]) (54). The definition of low risk in this study was a GBS less than 12, instead of the more common GBS of 2 or less. In another study using the same criterion, time to endoscopy was not 0.24 to 0.97]), but not rebleeding, compared with later endoscopy (56). The QoE was downgraded for serious risk of bias and indirectness. High-risk patients: See text under “No Recommendation B.” Discussion: Safety concerns regarding early endoscopy, including the potential for inadequate resuscitation
