HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


QoE was downgraded for serious risk of bias and indirectness. High-risk patients: See text under “No Recommendation B.” Discussion: Safety concerns regarding early endoscopy, including the potential for inadequate resuscitation before the procedure and the need to perform endoscopy during off- hours when fewer endoscopy resources are available, must be weighed against the potential for worse outcomes due to ongoing bleeding. Because such concerns are less of an issue in Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript low-risk patients than in high-risk ones, the decision to perform early endoscopy in those at low risk is driven mainly by cost and length of stay. The 2010 UGIB guidelines recommended early endoscopy (within 24 hours of presentation) for most patients with acute UGIB (4). This recommendation was based on data suggesting that early endoscopy allowed for safe discharge of low-risk patients, improved outcomes for high-risk patients, and reduced resource use (4). Although the data were very low quality, they support the conclusion that for low-risk patients, early endoscopy may be performed safely and can reduce resource use. To reduce hospitalization and costs, the endoscopist’s recommendations for early discharge of low-risk patients must be embraced by the attending physician. In the trial in which early endoscopy did not reduce resource use, only 21% of eligible patients were discharged early (53). Early endoscopy may also yield more high-risk endoscopic stigmata that would have resolved spontaneously (52, 53), which may offset benefits in terms of hospitalization. Availability of endoscopy resources is an important consideration. A meta-analysis of 20 cohort studies found that patients with UGIB hospitalized during off-hours were less likely to undergo endoscopy within 24 hours and had higher mortality rates (57). This was not the case in hospitals with formal out-of-hours endoscopy services. On the basis of the available data, the consensus group suggested that endoscopy be performed within 24 hours of presentation, both for low- and high-risk patients. For high-risk patients, see the discussion under “No Recommendation B.” No Recommendation B—For patients with acute UGIB at high risk for rebleeding or mortality, the consensus group could not make a recommendation for or against performing endoscopy within 12 hours versus performing endoscopy later. (GRADE for PICO: very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: No randomized trial assessed the timing of endoscopy specifically in high- risk patients with UGIB. One trial in patients with
