HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


endoscopy later. (GRADE for PICO: very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: No randomized trial assessed the timing of endoscopy specifically in high- risk patients with UGIB. One trial in patients with peptic ulcer bleeding, including a high proportion of high-risk patients (44% with shock), found no difference in mortality with endoscopy before or after 12 hours (Appendix Table 3, available at Annals.org) (51). The QoE was downgraded for serious risk of bias and indirectness, and very serious imprecision. Seven observational studies in high-risk patients with UGIB were assessed (54–56, 58–61); however, only 2 provided adjusted results for mortality (Appendix Table 3) (56, 58). One study found a reduction in mortality with very early endoscopy (<6 hours) compared with later endoscopy (>6 to ≤48 hours) (58). A large cohort study suggested that among hemodynamically unstable patients, very early endoscopy (≤6 hours) may increase mortality risk, whereas early endoscopy between 6 and 24 hours may reduce mortality risk compared with endoscopy outside that time frame (56). These data were downgraded for serious risk of bias, inconsistency, and imprecision. Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Unadjusted results from observational studies were not considered for this guideline. Such results conflict and are difficult to interpret, because the effects of the confounders are bidirectional. More severe bleeding or comorbid conditions are associated with worse outcomes and present a clear bias toward more rapid endoscopy; however, if the severity is too great, then endoscopy might be delayed. Discussion: Statement B3 recommends endoscopy within 24 hours for patients with UGIB. Whether high-risk patients would benefit from very early endoscopy (within 12 hours) remains unanswered. Although active bleeding is associated with a poor prognosis, patients who are hemodynamically unstable may have more adverse outcomes during endoscopy. Therefore, very early endoscopy may be associated with a paradoxical negative effect in high-risk patients (56). Because of conflicting data, widely variable patient populations (such as those differing in age, bleeding severity, comorbid conditions, or hemodynamic instability), and the potential for harm, the consensus group concluded that insufficient data exist to recommend for or against endoscopy more urgently than the 24-hour window in high-risk patients. Practitioners are reminded that for patients with suspected variceal bleeding, existing recommendations suggest endoscopy within 12 hours of presentation (62, 63). Statement B10a—For patients with acutely bleeding ulcers with high-risk stigmata, we recommend endoscopic therapy
