HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


patients with suspected variceal bleeding, existing recommendations suggest endoscopy within 12 hours of presentation (62, 63). Statement B10a—For patients with acutely bleeding ulcers with high-risk stigmata, we recommend endoscopic therapy with thermocoagulation or sclerosant injection. (GRADE: strong recommendation, low-quality evidence) Statement B10b—For patients with acutely bleeding ulcers with high-risk stigmata, we suggest endoscopic therapy with (through-the-scope) clips. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Systematic reviews and meta-analyses have assessed the role of endoscopic therapy in patients with UGIB (64–67). One review looked only at epinephrine injection alone and in combination (66), whereas another was suboptimally reported (67). For this guideline, the evidence was derived mainly from the 2009 reviews by Laine and McQuaid (64) and Barkun and colleagues (65), which were updated via new literature searches from 2006 to 2018. For the comparison of endoscopic treatment with no endoscopic treatment, no new randomized trials were found; therefore, these analyses remain unchanged (64, 65). Compared with pharmacotherapy or no treatment, thermocoagulation (heater probe or bipolar electrocoagulation) or sclerosant injection reduced mortality and rebleeding (64, 65). No randomized trials were found comparing hemoclips with no treatment. The QoE was downgraded for risk of bias (mainly lack of blinding). The QoE for efficacy was moderate for all therapies combined and for sclerosant injection; QoE was low for thermocoagulation and was downgraded further for imprecision. Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript For comparisons of various active treatments, the meta-analysis by Barkun and colleagues (65) was updated with 3 new trials (68–70) (Supplement Appendix 2). No differences were found for mortality or rebleeding in comparisons of thermocoagulation, sclerosant injection, hemoclips, and combination therapies (64, 65). Meta-analysis of data from 2 trials showed that hemoclips were superior to epinephrine injection alone with regard to rebleeding (RR, 0.17 [CI, 0.05 to 0.55]) but not mortality (RR, 2.15 [CI, 0.59 to 7.78]) (68, 71). Discussion: Endoscopic hemostatic therapy has been well documented to improve outcomes. The consensus group agreed with the prior statements that endoscopic therapy is indicated in patients with high-risk stigmata (active bleeding, visible vessel) and may be considered in patients with an adherent clot (statements B6 and B7). Debate continues with regard to the optimal method. Sclerosant therapy is used less commonly in clinical practice but remains a viable option. Lack of routine PPI therapy and the constantly changing prevalence
