HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


with regard to the optimal method. Sclerosant therapy is used less commonly in clinical practice but remains a viable option. Lack of routine PPI therapy and the constantly changing prevalence of Helicobacter pylori may affect the results of older studies. The group chose not to address other endoscopic mechanical techniques, such as over-the-scope clips. On the basis of the available data, a strong recommendation was made for thermocoagulation or sclerosant injections, whereas hemoclips were suggested (conditional recommendation). However, the data generally have failed to show superiority of any one method, and each may be useful depending on location of the bleeding source and patient characteristics. Statement B11a—In patients with actively bleeding ulcers, we suggest using TC-325 as a temporizing therapy to stop bleeding when conventional endoscopic therapies are not available or fail. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Statement B11b—In patients with actively bleeding ulcers, we suggest against using TC-325 as a single therapeutic strategy versus conventional endoscopic therapy (clips alone, thermocoagulation alone, or combination therapy). (GRADE: conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Evidence for the efficacy of TC-325 (hemostatic powder spray) was available from 1 small underpowered trial (72) and from observational studies (73, 74). The trial randomly assigned 20 patients and found no statistically significant differences in initial hemostasis (90% vs. 100%) or rebleeding (33% vs. 10%) with TC-325 monotherapy versus a conventional combination endoscopic technique (epinephrine injection with either hemoclip or heater probe application) (72). Among 8 patients with actively bleeding (spurting or oozing) ulcers, 4 of 5 in the TC-325 group had successful initial hemostasis, but 3 had rebleeding. In contrast, all 3 in the conventional treatment group achieved initial hemostasis and none had rebleeding. A systematic review of observational data found an immediate hemostasis rate of 90% but very high rebleeding rates (72-hour, 19%; 7-day, 22%) among 86 patients with ulcer bleeds treated with TC-325 (73). Rebleeding rates (72-hour and 7-day) were highest among patients Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript with active bleeding (spurting, 40% and 60%; oozing, 13% and 16%). Another large prospective cohort study included 202 patients with bleeding treated with TC-325; the rate of initial hemostasis was 97%, with day 8 and day 30 rebleeding rates of 27% and 34%, respectively (74). Evidence was downgraded for serious risk of bias (lack of blinding) and very serious imprecision
