HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


97%, with day 8 and day 30 rebleeding rates of 27% and 34%, respectively (74). Evidence was downgraded for serious risk of bias (lack of blinding) and very serious imprecision (small sample sizes and low total number of events). Discussion: The success of TC-325 hemostatic powder spray seems to depend on the cause of bleeding and whether the powder is used alone or in combination with other hemostatic therapy. The powder adheres only to actively bleeding lesions (73), its residency time is 24 hours or less (75), and it does not induce tissue healing (73). TC-325 use in UGIB is associated with a low complication rate, although rare cases of perforation and transient biliary obstruction have been reported (73, 76). Additional experience is needed to define the safety profile more clearly. Decision modeling suggests that a strategy of conventional therapy followed by TC-325 improved the effectiveness and was less costly compared with conventional therapy alone or TC-325 alone in most patient populations with nonvariceal UGIB (77). TC-325 followed by conventional therapy was the most effective strategy for nonulcer high-risk bleeding lesions at low risk for delayed rebleeding. group concluded that TC-325 monotherapy may not adequately treat ulcers with high-risk stigmata, but may be useful as a temporary measure to stop bleeding, and that second-look endoscopy or a second hemostatic technique should be used. No Recommendation C—In patients with acutely bleeding ulcers who have undergone endoscopic therapy, the consensus group could not make a recommendation for or against Doppler endoscopic probe (DEP) versus no DEP to assess the need for further endoscopic therapy. (GRADE for PICO: very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Two randomized trials compared DEP-guided versus conventional endoscopic treatment in patients with acute UGIB (78, 79). In a 1997 study by Kohler and colleagues (78), all patients had peptic ulcer bleeding, but actively bleeding lesions were excluded. Endoscopic treatment was directed by Doppler findings, injection therapy alone was used, and second-look endoscopy was performed for all patients. In a 2017 study by Jensen and colleagues (79), most of the 148 patients with severe nonvariceal UGIB (85%) had peptic ulcer bleeding (active bleeding, visible vessel, adherent clot, or flat spot). A meta- analysis of these 2 studies (78, 79) was performed for this guideline (Supplement Appendix 2). However, at the face-to-face meeting, it was decided to focus the evidence profiles on the trial by Jensen and colleagues, which reported data for
