HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


for this guideline (Supplement Appendix 2). However, at the face-to-face meeting, it was decided to focus the evidence profiles on the trial by Jensen and colleagues, which reported data for patients with high-risk lesions (active bleeding, visible vessel) or adherent clot. Data for patients with low-risk lesions (flat spot) were considered indirect, because these lesions are not routinely subjected to endoscopic Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript therapy. In Jensen and colleagues’ study (79), DEP reduced rebleeding for all lesions (RR, 0.42 [CI, 0.20 to 0.90]) but not for high-risk lesions (RR, 0.50 [CI, 0.24 to 1.08]). Overall, the QoE was downgraded for risk of bias, indirectness (population and intervention), and imprecision (moderate sample size). Discussion: More studies are needed to determine whether DEP would be useful to guide endoscopic treatment decisions before or after initial therapy or in both settings. One study found only 58% agreement between DEP and findings at index endoscopy (78). Used to determine the need for additional therapy, DEP would be an add-on test with conventional endoscopic treatment for high-risk lesions, which would add cost related to the DEP technology. A cost-minimization analysis found that DEP-directed combination endoscopic therapy was cost-effective compared with combination therapy only for the management of high-risk patients (80). The consensus group concluded that data suggesting efficacy for DEP is very limited and that lack of availability and expertise in many centers affects feasibility. The group generally agreed that although making a recommendation for or against DEP to manage UGIB is premature, it has the potential to alter the usual approach to visually assessing bleeding lesion risk when evaluating the need for, and adequacy of, endoscopic hemostasis. Section C: Pharmacologic Management Statement C3—For patients with bleeding ulcers with high-risk stigmata who have undergone successful endoscopic therapy, we recommend using PPI therapy via intravenous loading dose followed by continuous intravenous infusion (as opposed to no treatment or H receptor antagonists). (GRADE:strongrecommendation,moderate-qualityevidence) No Recommendation D—For patients with bleeding ulcers with high-risk stigmata who have undergone successful endoscopic therapy, the consensus group could not make a recommendation for or against non–high-dose PPI therapy (as opposed to no treatment or H -receptor antagonists). (GRADE for PICO: very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Two Cochrane reviews on PPIs in UGIB were updated for this guideline (81, 82). The first (81), which included 24 trials
