HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


antagonists). (GRADE for PICO: very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Two Cochrane reviews on PPIs in UGIB were updated for this guideline (81, 82). The first (81), which included 24 trials comparing PPIs with placebo or H -receptor antagonists (H RAs), was updated with an additional 14 randomized trials. Of these, 12 included data on patients with high-risk stigmata (active bleeding, visible vessel) or adherent clot who had undergone appropriate endoscopic therapy. There was moderate QoE that PPI therapy versus no PPIs or H RAs reduced mortality risk (OR, 0.56 [CI, 0.34 to 0.94]) and high QoE that it reduced rebleeding risk (OR, 0.43 [CI, 0.29 to 0.63]) (Table 2). The evidence for mortality was downgraded because of serious risk of bias (mainly lack of blinding in some trials). Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript The second meta-analysis (82), which included 22 trials comparing various PPI regimens, was updated with an additional 18 trials. Of these, 25 compared high-dose PPIs (defined as an 80-mg intravenous bolus followed by 72 hours of an 8-mg/h continuous intravenous infusion) with non–high-dose PPIs, and 17 included data on patients with high-risk stigmata or adherent clots who had undergone endoscopic treatment. No differences were found in the risk for mortality or rebleeding between high-dose and non-high-dose PPIs (low and moderate QoE) or between high-dose and oral PPIs (very low and low QoE) (Table 2). Indirect comparisons between high-dose PPIs and no treatment or H RAs and between non– high-dose PPIs and no treatment or H RAs yielded very low QoE for the superiority of high- dose PPI therapy (update of ). Moderate QoE supported the superiority of non–high- dose PPIs versus no PPIs for the outcome of rebleeding, but the QoE for mortality was low. The evidence was downgraded, mainly because of imprecision and risk of bias for some comparisons. Adverse effects were poorly reported in most of the studies. Overall, no consistent signal of a difference was found between PPI therapy and placebo or H RAs, between high-dose and non–high-dose PPIs, or between intravenous and oral PPI therapy. The exception was an increased risk for thrombophlebitis with PPIs administered intravenously versus orally. Discussion: High-dose PPI therapy (that is, an 80-mg intravenous bolus followed by 72 hours of 8-mg/h continuous intravenous infusion) reduces rebleeding and mortality. Because non–high-dose therapy has been associated with
