HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


Discussion: High-dose PPI therapy (that is, an 80-mg intravenous bolus followed by 72 hours of 8-mg/h continuous intravenous infusion) reduces rebleeding and mortality. Because non–high-dose therapy has been associated with a reduction in rebleeding but not mortality compared with no PPI therapy, a majority of the consensus group did not vote to recommend non–high-dose PPI therapy. The consensus group is not confident that the precision of the estimates of absolute differences between high- and non–high-dose PPI therapy regarding mortality and rebleeding is sufficient to consider the 2 therapies equivalent. Studies of non– high-dose PPI therapy are complicated by different dosing regimens and methods of administration, including continuous intravenous infusion, intravenous bolus, and oral regimens. Cost-effectiveness studies have suggested that high-dose intravenous PPIs after successful endoscopic hemostasis improve outcomes at a modest cost increase relative to non–high- dose intravenous or oral PPI strategies (83–86). In addition, the incremental costs of different PPI regimens (continuous or intermittent, before or after endoscopic therapy) are modest compared with total per-patient costs. The consensus group concluded that the evidence supports a strong recommendation for high-dose PPIs for patients with bleeding ulcers with high-risk stigmata (active bleeding or visible vessel) who have had successful endoscopic therapy. The recommendation for patients with adherent clots remains unchanged (statement B6) and includes endoscopic therapy or consideration of PPI therapy alone (Table 1). Given the demonstrated benefits on rebleeding outcomes and that the costs and availability of intravenous formulations may be issues in some areas, the consensus group also did not make a recommendation against using lower PPI doses. Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Statement C4—For patients who present with ulcer bleeding at high risk for rebleeding (that is, an ulcer requiring endoscopic therapy followed by 3 days of high-dose PPI therapy), we suggest using twice-daily oral PPIs (vs. once daily) through 14 days, followed by once daily. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: One trial enrolled patients at high-risk for rebleeding (Rockall scores ≥6) who had undergone successful endoscopic therapy and received 3 days of high-dose PPI therapy (intravenous esomeprazole, 80-mg loading dose followed by 8-mg/h continuous infusion) (87). Patients were randomly assigned to receive oral esomeprazole, 40 mg, either once or twice daily for 11 days (days 3 to 14). All patients received an additional 2 weeks of once-daily PPI therapy. A
