HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


to receive oral esomeprazole, 40 mg, either once or twice daily for 11 days (days 3 to 14). All patients received an additional 2 weeks of once-daily PPI therapy. A reduction was found in rebleeding (RR, 0.37 [CI, 0.19 to 0.73]) but not mortality rates (RR, 0.38 [CI, 0.10 to 1.38]) with twice- versus once-daily PPIs. The QoE was downgraded for risk of bias and imprecision. Discussion: Based on the data suggesting superiority over the standard dosage for rebleeding, the consensus group suggested the use of twice-daily PPIs to complete 2 weeks of PPI therapy, after 3 days of high-dose therapy. Section D: Nonendoscopic and Nonpharmacologic In-Hospital Management No updates to the 2010 international UGIB guidelines (4). Section E: Secondary Prophylaxis Statement E4—In patients with previous ulcer bleeding receiving cardiovascular prophylaxis with single- or dual-antiplatelet therapy, we suggest using PPI therapy versus no PPI therapy. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, low-quality evidence) Key Evidence Single-antiplatelet therapy: Evidence for the role of PPI therapy in patients receiving single-agent antiplatelet therapy was available from 5 randomized trials (88–92) comparing PPIs versus no PPIs in patients requiring continued antiplatelet therapy. Because of heterogeneity in study designs and comparison groups, a meta-analysis of all 5 studies was not done. All 5 trials were conducted in Hong Kong. A history of H pylori infection and eradication treatment was common. One trial found PPIs to be more effective than placebo in reducing recurrent complications (bleeding, perforation, and obstruction) (RR, 0.11 [CI, 0.01 to 0.84]) in patients with previous ulcer complications who had successful H pylori eradication and required continued antiplatelet therapy (acetylsalicylic acid [ASA]) (88). A meta-analysis of 2 trials showed that PPIs plus ASA reduced rebleeding rates versus clopidogrel alone (RR, 0.07 [CI, 0.01 to 0.34]) in patients with previous ASA-associated ulcer bleeding who did not have H pylori infection or who had it successfully eradicated (90, 91). In patients with previous ASA-associated ulcer bleeding, trials found no difference between PPIs and eradication Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript treatment in those with H pylori infection (89), or between PPIs and H RAs in patients without H pylori infection or those in whom H pylori infection was eradicated (92). Two trials found no differences in mortality rates between PPI and placebo groups (88) or between PPIs plus ASA versus clopidogrel (89). The evidence was
