HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


pylori infection was eradicated (92). Two trials found no differences in mortality rates between PPI and placebo groups (88) or between PPIs plus ASA versus clopidogrel (89). The evidence was downgraded, primarily for very serious imprecision (small studies, very low number of events). Dual-antiplatelet therapy (DAPT): No randomized trials were found assessing the use of PPIs in patients receiving DAPT who had a history of ulcer bleeding. Two systematic reviews were found in patients receiving DAPT after percutaneous coronary intervention or in the presence of coronary artery disease (93, 94). The reporting and methodological quality of both reviews were suboptimal, with inclusion of studies that were not eligible (for example, because of patients not receiving DAPT, incorrect comparisons, or double counting). A meta-analysis conducted for this guideline included 4 randomized trials (n = 4805) comparing PPI versus no PPI therapy in patients receiving prophylactic DAPT (ASA and clopidogrel). The largest study was international (95), whereas the other 3 were conducted in China (96–98). The meta-analysis showed a reduction in gastrointestinal bleeding risk with PPI therapy versus placebo (n = 4 studies; RR, 0.25 [CI, 0.14 to 0.45]) and no effects on mortality (n = 3 studies; RR, 1.02 [CI, 0.68 to 1.54]) or myocardial infarction risk (n = 2 studies; RR, 0.96 [CI, 0.51 to 1.81]). No studies were found that assessed ASA in combination with other antiplatelet drugs, such as prasugrel or ticagrelor. The evidence was downgraded for high or unclear risk of bias in the Chinese studies and for serious indirectness in all 4 trials (most patients did not have a history of ulcer bleeding). Discussion: The evidence consistently supports a benefit with PPI therapy in patients with previous ulcer bleeding who continue single- or dual-antiplatelet therapy and suggest that PPI therapy is superior to clopidogrel alone in patients receiving ASA. Most patients in these studies had H pylori infection before PPI therapy, and in 1 study eradication treatment alone was as effective as PPI therapy (89). Observational data suggest that ulcer rebleeding risk in patients receiving low-dose ASA may be reduced among those who had H pylori infection eradicated compared with those who were never infected (99). It is anticipated that PPI therapy should be beneficial in populations with lower rates of H pylori infection, although the magnitude of effect may be decreased. The consensus group suggested that eradication therapy alone may be sufficient to reduce bleeding
