HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


populations with lower rates of H pylori infection, although the magnitude of effect may be decreased. The consensus group suggested that eradication therapy alone may be sufficient to reduce bleeding risk for some patients with H pylori infection, with only incremental benefits associated with additional PPI therapy. Although various adverse events have been reported with PPI therapy (statement E5), the systematic review and meta-analysis conducted for this guideline found no increased risk for myocardial infarction in patients receiving DAPT. Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript On the basis of the evidence, the consensus group suggests PPI therapy to prevent rebleeding in most patients who require single- or dual-antiplatelet therapy for a duration consistent with the ongoing need for antiplatelet therapy. Statement E5—In patients with previous ulcer bleeding requiring continued cardiovascular prophylaxis with anticoagulant therapy (vitamin K antagonists, DOACs), we suggest using PPI therapy versus no PPI therapy. (GRADE: conditional recommendation, very low-quality evidence) Key Evidence: Compared with no PPI therapy, the use of PPIs in patients receiving anticoagulant therapy was associated with a reduced risk for rebleeding in 2 large cohort studies (100, 101) but not in 3 case–control studies (102–104). Most patients included in these studies did not have a history of ulcer bleeding. In 1 small case–control study in patients with a history of UGIB, rebleeding risk was not significantly reduced in patients receiving warfarin plus PPIs (RR, 1.93 [CI, 0.23 to 16.28]) compared with those not receiving warfarin (103). In contrast, in 1 of the cohort studies the greatest risk reduction with PPI therapy versus no PPI therapy was seen in patients with a history of peptic ulcers or gastrointestinal bleeding (adjusted incidence rate ratio, 0.14 [CI, 0.06 to 0.30]) (101). None of the included studies assessed mortality. The evidence was downgraded for indirectness (most patients did not have previous ulcer bleeding). Discussion: A history of ulcer bleeding is associated with an increased risk for bleeding, and sites that have mucosal breaks. Meta-analyses of primarily observational studies have suggested potential associations between PPI therapy and adverse effects, including community-acquired pneumonia, hip fracture, colorectal cancer, chronic kidney disease, community-acquired enteric infection, and Clostridium difficile infection (105–109). An analysis of factors, such as consistency, specificity, temporality, and biological plausibility, as well as confounding factors, showed that the evidence for causality is very weak (110). The consensus
