HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: patients, author, manuscript, author manuscript, therapy, evidence, manuscript author, risk, bleeding, endoscopy, ugib, group, ppi, consensus, available


(105–109). An analysis of factors, such as consistency, specificity, temporality, and biological plausibility, as well as confounding factors, showed that the evidence for causality is very weak (110). The consensus group concluded that for high-risk patients with an ongoing need for anticoagulants, the evidence suggests that the benefits of secondary prophylaxis outweigh the risks. The unproven potential and rare safety concerns should not prevent treatment for patients at risk for life-threatening consequences. Ongoing and Research Recommendations Although UGIB management has improved substantially during the past 2 decades, areas remain in which more data are needed (Appendix Table 4, available at Annals.org). In particular, more studies are needed to define the benefits of specific prognostic scales, the role of a restrictive versus liberal transfusion practice in patients with UGIB and cardiovascular disease, optimal PPI regimens, optimal endoscopic hemostatic therapies, and the role of PPIs in patients receiving antithrombotic therapy. Planned analyses from the COMPASS (Cardiovascular Outcomes for People Using Anticoagulation Strategies) trial Ann Intern Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 June 03. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript may clarify the efficacy and safety of PPIs versus no PPIs in patients receiving anticoagulant therapy (111). Several pertinent articles that were not available at the time of this consensus have been published since the literature searches were completed (as of May 2018). These include a large randomized trial in patients with cardiovascular disease that compared the efficacy and safety of DOACs or ASA with or without PPI therapy (112, 113). Randomized trials have assessed PPIs versus H RAs for recurrent UGIB (114), as well as endoscopic therapy with hemostatic powder and hemoclips (115, 116). In addition, the use of DEP to guide hemostasis has been studied further (117). Although a discussion of over-the-scope clips for recurrent peptic ulcer bleeding is beyond the scope of the statements addressed in this guideline, data are emerging (118). These are just some examples of new or ongoing studies group cannot comment on the results of these trials, because a systematic literature search was not performed and the GRADE approach was not applied. APPLICABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES slide presentations, short videos, and CAG podcasts. The guidelines and supporting materials will be disseminated to all participating societies and regions through such venues as symposia sessions or workshops at society meetings. Major recommendations will be guidelines will continue to be updated as new data become available.
