Ventricular Tachycardia
KEYWORDS: ventricular, tachycardia, qrs, ventricular tachycardia, patients, left, bundle, branch, bundle branch, complex, sustained, wide, usually, beats, qrs complex


Ventricular tachycardia is ≥ 3 consecutive ventricular beats at a rate ≥ 120 beats/minute. Symptoms depend on duration and vary from none to palpitations to hemodynamic collapse and death. Diagnosis is by electrocardiography. Treatment of more than brief episodes is with cardioversion or antiarrhythmics, depending on symptoms. If necessary, long- term treatment is with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator. Some experts use a cutoff rate of ≥ 100 beats/minute for ventricular tachycardia (VT). Repetitive ventricular rhythms at slower rates are called accelerated idioventricular rhythms or slow VT; they are usually benign and are not treated unless patients have hemodynamic symptoms. Most patients with VT have a significant heart disorder, particularly prior myocardial infarction or a cardiomyopathy. Electrolyte abnormalities (particularly hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia), acidemia, hypoxemia, and adverse medication effects contribute (1). The long QT syndrome (congenital or acquired) is associated with a particular form of VT, torsades de pointes. Ventricular tachycardia may be monomorphic or polymorphic and nonsustained or sustained. Monomorphic VT: Single abnormal focus or reentrant pathway and thus regular, identical- appearing QRS complexes Polymorphic VT: Several different foci or pathways and thus irregular, varying QRS complexes Nonsustained VT: Lasts < 30 seconds Sustained VT: Lasts ≥ 30 seconds or is terminated sooner because of hemodynamic collapse Right and left ventricular outflow tract ventricular tachycardia (RVOT-VT and LVOT-VT) are idiopathic ventricular tachycardias that occur in the absence of an evident underlying structural heart disorder (2). They are due to cAMP-mediated delayed after-depolarizations and usually occur with exercise or emotional stress (2). They typically have a morphology that is similar to left bundle branch block (LBBB) and a vertical downward axis (positive QRS in lead V1, negative QRS in lead AVL, and near-isoelectric QRS in lead I) (see Ventricular Premature Beats). Verapamil-sensitive left fascicular VT (Belhassen VT, left septal VT) is an idiopathic ventricular tachycardia that occurs in the absence of an evident underlying structural heart disorder (3). It is due to a slow conduction section of abnormal Purkinje tissue that can support macro-reentry using ventricular myocardium and part of the left (usually posterior) hemifascicle of the left bundle branch. It is typically induced by a critical heart rate either spontaneously or by rapid atrial pacing and usually has a morphology similar to that of right bundle branch block with left axis deviation (3). Bundle branch reentry VT is a ventricular tachycardia that occurs in patients with advanced cardiomyopathy or isolated conduction
