Ventricular Tachycardia
KEYWORDS: ventricular, tachycardia, qrs, ventricular tachycardia, patients, left, bundle, branch, bundle branch, complex, sustained, wide, usually, beats, qrs complex


to that of right bundle branch block with left axis deviation (3). Bundle branch reentry VT is a ventricular tachycardia that occurs in patients with advanced cardiomyopathy or isolated conduction system disease (3). It is due to macro-reentry using the bundle branches, usually the antegrade limb is the right bundle branch and the retrograde limb is the left bundle branch. Accordingly, this ventricular tachycardia usually has a LBBB-like QRS morphology (3). Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia is a genetic disorder affecting intracellular calcium regulation in cardiac tissue. Patients are predisposed to atrial and/or ventricular tachyarrhythmias and sudden cardiac death, particularly during increased adrenergic activity. (See also Arrhythmogenic Cardiac Disorders.) VT frequently deteriorates to ventricular fibrillation and thus cardiac arrest. Symptoms and Signs of Ventricular Tachycardia Ventricular tachycardia of short duration or slow rate may be asymptomatic. Sustained VT is almost always symptomatic, causing palpitations, symptoms of hemodynamic compromise, or sudden cardiac death. Diagnosis of Ventricular Tachycardia Electrocardiography (ECG) Diagnosis of ventricular tachycardia is by ECG (see figure Broad QRS Ventricular Tachycardia). Any wide QRS complex tachycardia (QRS ≥ 0.12 second) should be considered VT until proved otherwise. Pearls & Pitfalls Any wide QRS complex tachycardia (QRS ≥ 0.12 second) should be considered VT until proved otherwise. Diagnosis is supported by ECG findings of Dissociated P-wave activity Fusion beats (a conducted sinus beat fusing with a ventricular beat creating a QRS complex with morphology, duration, and axis in-between those of normally conducted beats and those of the wide QRS complex ventricular beats) Capture beats (normally conducted sinus beat interrupting a wide-complex tachycardia) Uniformity of QRS vectors in the V leads (concordance) with discordant T-wave vector (opposite QRS vector) A frontal-plane QRS axis in the northwest quadrant Differential diagnosis includes fast supraventricular rhythms conducted with bundle branch block or via an accessory pathway (see figure Modified Brugada Criteria for Ventricular Tachycardia) (1). Because some patients tolerate VT surprisingly well, concluding that a well-tolerated wide QRS complex tachycardia must be of supraventricular origin is a mistake. Using medications appropriate for supraventricular tachycardia (eg, verapamil, diltiazem) in patients with VT may cause hemodynamic collapse and death (2). Still, because of its very brief half-life, IV adenosine may be used as a diagnostic maneuver (and possibly treatment, if the arrhythmia is supraventricular) in a patient who is stable and has a regular, monomorphic wide QRS complex tachycardia (3), albeit with a small risk of converting stable
