Ventricular Tachycardia
KEYWORDS: ventricular, tachycardia, qrs, ventricular tachycardia, patients, left, bundle, branch, bundle branch, complex, sustained, wide, usually, beats, qrs complex


treatment, if the arrhythmia is supraventricular) in a patient who is stable and has a regular, monomorphic wide QRS complex tachycardia (3), albeit with a small risk of converting stable VT to unstable ventricular fibrillation. Modified Brugada Criteria for Ventricular Tachycardia *With RBBB QRS: In V1, monophasic R, or QR, or RS In V6, R/S < 1 or monophasic R or QR *With LBBB QRS: In V1, R > 30 milliseconds wide or RS > 60 milliseconds wide In V6, QR or QS AV = atrioventricular; LBBB = left bundle branch block; msec = millisecond; RBBB = right bundle branch block; VT = ventricular tachycardia. Pearls & Pitfalls Because some patients tolerate ventricular tachycardia surprisingly well, it is a mistake to conclude that a well-tolerated wide QRS complex tachycardia must be of supraventricular origin. Broad QRS Ventricular Tachycardia The QRS duration is 160 millisecond. An independent P wave can be seen in II (arrows). There is a leftward mean frontal axis shift. Treatment of Ventricular Tachycardia Acute: Sometimes synchronized direct current cardioversion, sometimes class I or class III antiarrhythmics Long-term: Usually an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator Acute Treatment of acute ventricular tachycardia depends on symptoms and duration of VT. Pulseless VT requires defibrillation beginning with biphasic 120 to 200 joules (or monophasic 360 joules). Stable sustained VT can be treated with synchronized direct current cardioversion with ≥100 joules using conscious sedation or transient general anesthesia. Stable sustained VT can be treated with intravenous class I or class III antiarrhythmics (1) (see table Antiarrhythmic Medications). Lidocaine acts quickly but is frequently ineffective. If lidocaine is ineffective, IV procainamide may be given, but it may take up to 1 hour to work. IV amiodarone is frequently used but does not usually work quickly. Failure of IV procainamide or IV amiodarone is an indication for cardioversion. Right and left ventricular outflow tract ventricular tachycardias (RVOT-VT and LVOT-VT) respond to IV adenosine. Verapamil-sensitive left fascicular ventricular tachycardia responds to IV verapamil (1). Nonsustained VT does not require immediate treatment unless the runs are frequent or long enough to cause symptoms. In such cases, antiarrhythmics are used as for sustained VT. Long-term The primary goal is preventing sudden death, rather than simply suppressing the arrhythmia. It is best accomplished by use of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD). However, the decision about whom to treat is complex and depends on the estimated probability of life-threatening VTs and the severity
