Ventricular Tachycardia
KEYWORDS: ventricular, tachycardia, qrs, ventricular tachycardia, patients, left, bundle, branch, bundle branch, complex, sustained, wide, usually, beats, qrs complex


best accomplished by use of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD). However, the decision about whom to treat is complex and depends on the estimated probability of life-threatening VTs and the severity of underlying heart disorders (1) (see table Indications for Implantable Cardioverter- Defibrillators). Long-term treatment is not required when the index episode of ventricular tachycardia resulted from a transient cause (eg, during the 48 hours after onset of myocardial infarction) or a reversible cause (acid- base disturbances, electrolyte abnormalities, proarrhythmic medication effect). 6/8 In the absence of a transient or reversible cause, patients who have had an episode of sustained VT typically require an ICD (1). Most patients with sustained VT and a significant structural heart disorder should also receive a beta-blocker. If an ICD cannot be used, amiodarone may be the preferred antiarrhythmic for prevention of sudden death. Because nonsustained VT is a marker for increased risk of sudden death in patients with a structural heart disorder, such patients (particularly those with an ejection fraction < 0.35) require further evaluation. Such patients should receive an ICD. When prevention of VT is important (usually in patients who have an ICD and are having frequent episodes of VT), antiarrhythmics or transcatheter or surgical ablation of the arrhythmogenic substrate is required (1). Any class Ia, Ib, Ic, II, or III antiarrhythmic can be used. Because beta-blockers (class II) are safe, they are the first choice unless contraindicated. If an additional medication is required, sotalol is commonly used, then amiodarone (1). Transcatheter ablation is particularly successful in patients who have VT with well-defined syndromes (eg, right or left ventricular outflow tract VT, verapamil-sensitive left fascicular VT, or bundle branch reentrant VT (1). Key Points Any wide-complex (QRS ≥ 0.12 second) tachycardia should be considered ventricular tachycardia (VT) until proved otherwise. Patients who do not have a pulse should be cardioverted. Synchronized cardioversion or antiarrhythmic medications may be tried if the patient is stable. Patients who had an episode of sustained VT without a transient or reversible cause typically require an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD).
