| TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: des, acute, poem, patient, symptoms, treatment, distal, pandysautonomia, gastrointestinal, pandysautonomia-associated, acute pandysautonomia, esophageal, dysphagia, dysfunction, patients


patient’s symptoms did not resolve and he developed chronic pandysautonomia-associated DES who had severe gastrointestinal dysphagia-related malnutrition. Subsequently, the patient began symptoms and underwent POEM. taking oryzanol, mecobalamin, and lorazepam as a treatment for acute pandysautonomia; this treatment led to slight improvements insymptoms (e.g., vomiting). Case description After admission, the patient continued to exhibit severe dysphagia, postprandial vomiting, and symptoms of autonomic A 12-year-old boy presented with recurrent nausea, vomiting, nervous dysfunction, with a baseline Eckardt symptom score of and dysphagia, as well as progressive symptoms of autonomic 9 points (dysphagia, 3 points; regurgitation, 3 points; chest pain or dysfunction. His family history was unremarkable and he had no discomfort, 2 points; weight loss, 1 point). Abdominal previous historyof similarsymptoms. examinations showed normal bowel sounds, no palpable masses, Nineteen months before the present admission, the patient and no signs of organomegaly. Laboratory studies revealed no showed signs of pandysautonomia, including an atonic bladder, abnormalities. Upper gastrointestinal radiography demonstrated a alacrima, and impaired sweating after a gastrointestinal illness with diffuse contraction in the lower esophagus (Figure 1). Endoscopic unclear etiology. At that time, an abdominal ultrasound, computed assessment before POEM revealed a contractile ring in the lower tomography, and gastrointestinal angiography had revealed esophagus (Figure 2A). Although HREM suggested a mean superficial gastritis and duodenal bulbitis with reduced gastric and integrated relaxation pressure of 9.0mmHg, a distal contractile duodenal peristalsis. The patient had been treated with antacids, integral of 125mmHg·s·cm, delayed latencyof 4.2s, and contractile antiemetics, and anti-infectives for 2 months. However, his frontal velocity of >100cm/s, it did not show evidence of symptoms did notsignificantly improve. simultaneouscontraction (Figure3). Twelve months before the present admission, the patient began Torelievethepatient’sgastrointestinalsymptomssincehisfamily to vomit after eating because of worsening dysphagia. Physical refused the treatment of plasmapheresis, POEM was performed examination revealed impaired sweating and salivation, mild under general anesthesia (Figure 2). A tunnel was created using pupillary dilation, and urinary retention. Cerebrospinal fluid, endoscopic submucosal dissection, and proximal-to-distal full- electromyography, and serum immunoglobulin M tests showed no thickness myotomy was performed over a length of 11cm abnormalities. Thoracic, lumbar, and sacral magnetic resonance (25–36cm from incisors) while preserving the longitudinal imaging showed nerve root enhancement (L1 and L2 segments), muscles. Finally, the mucosal incision was closed using clips. The with slightly greater enhancement in the left fiber endings. Acute surgical duration was 40min. There were no postoperative pandysautonomia was confirmed after the exclusion of
