| TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: des, acute, poem, patient, symptoms, treatment, distal, pandysautonomia, gastrointestinal, pandysautonomia-associated, acute pandysautonomia, esophageal, dysphagia, dysfunction, patients


was closed using clips. The with slightly greater enhancement in the left fiber endings. Acute surgical duration was 40min. There were no postoperative pandysautonomia was confirmed after the exclusion of differential complications except for subcutaneous emphysema, which was diagnoses. Despite the use of intravenousimmunoglobulin (2g/kg), resolvedwithin2 weeks. Six months after the procedure, the patient’s Eckardt symptom score had decreased to 2 points, he could ingest semi-solid food, and his height and weight increased by 1.5cm and 2kg, respectively.Notably, hisneurologicalproblems partially persisted. Discussion Acutepandysautonomiaisanidiopathic,acute,orsubacutetype of autonomic neuropathy with unclear etiology and pathogenesis, which has rarely been identified in children (12). There is some evidence that gastrointestinal dysfunction is the most common initial symptom, and symptomatic treatment often produces unsatisfactory curative effects (3). DES is a rare esophageal motility disorder characterized by episodes of dysphagia and/or chest pain (13). Thus far, the relationship between acute pandysautonomia and DES has not been clarified. We have described a 12-year-old boy with acute pandysautonomia-associated DES. Our findings suggest that the digestive symptoms of acute pandysautonomia contributed to the onset of DES in our patient, with progressive symptoms of dysphagiathatledtomoderatemalnutrition. Acute pandysautonomia is one of the clinical variants of Guillain-Barrè syndrome (GBS) (14). In patients with acute pandysautonomia, early onset and progression of orthostatic FIGURE1 hypotension or urogenital dysfunction, urinary incontinence, Upper gastrointestinal radiography showed diffusing contraction of the generalized anhidrosis, and/or laryngeal stridor are highly loweresophagus. suggestive of multiple system atrophy (15). In recent years, there FrontiersinPediatrics 02 frontiersin.org Zhangetal. FIGURE2 UppergastrointestinalendoscopyandthetechniqueofPOEMinacasewithacutepandysautonomia-associateddistalesophagealspasm.(A)Endoscopic viewbeforePOEMrevealingcontractileringattheloweresophagus.(B)Closedcardiac.(C)Alongitudinalincisionismadeintotheupperesophagus.(D) Asubmucosaltunnelfromtheesophagustothegastriccardiaiscreated.(E)Full-thicknessmyotomyoftheloweresophagus.(F)Closureofthemucosal incision. have been few reports on the differential diagnosis between contractile integral of >450mmHg·s·cm (16). Our patient’s HREM autonomic dysfunction and GBS, and the relevant descriptions are findings indicated a distal contractile integral in the range of 100– not clear. Therefore, more studies are needed to fill in the gaps to 450mmHg·s·cm, which did not fully support a diagnosis of DES. guide the diagnosis and treatment of autonomic dysfunction and However, considering the intermittent nature of the disorder (13), GBS. In our case, after performing other differential diagnostic and the finding that HREM did not cause discomfort in the tests,wefirstconsideredthatthepatienthadacutepandysautonomia. patient, wepresumed thatthepatient wasin anintermittent period AccordingtoChicagoclassificationversion4.0,DESisdefinedas of DES during the HREM examination, and no data could be contractions with a distal latency<4.5s in the presence of a distal collected regarding simultaneous contraction. The findings of FIGURE3 HREMshowedameanIRPof9.0mmHg,DCIof125mmHg·s·cm,DLof4.2s,andaCFVofmorethan100cm/sintestswallowswithpoorperistalsisinthe esophagealbody.DCI,distalcontractileintegral;DL,delayedlatency;CFV,contractilefrontalvelocity. FrontiersinPediatrics 03 frontiersin.org Zhangetal. ancillarytests(e.g.,gastrointestinalangiographyandendoscopy)are Ethics statement not specific to DES, but
