| TYPECaseReport
KEYWORDS: des, acute, poem, patient, symptoms, treatment, distal, pandysautonomia, gastrointestinal, pandysautonomia-associated, acute pandysautonomia, esophageal, dysphagia, dysfunction, patients


distal latency<4.5s in the presence of a distal collected regarding simultaneous contraction. The findings of FIGURE3 HREMshowedameanIRPof9.0mmHg,DCIof125mmHg·s·cm,DLof4.2s,andaCFVofmorethan100cm/sintestswallowswithpoorperistalsisinthe esophagealbody.DCI,distalcontractileintegral;DL,delayedlatency;CFV,contractilefrontalvelocity. FrontiersinPediatrics 03 frontiersin.org Zhangetal. ancillarytests(e.g.,gastrointestinalangiographyandendoscopy)are Ethics statement not specific to DES, but they can provide important evidence to support such a diagnosis (17). Considering the characteristic The studies involving human participants were reviewed and diagnosed thepatientwith DES. Written informed consent to participate in this study was provided Currently, there are no standard guidelines or consensus bytheparticipants’ legalguardian/next ofkin. recommendations for the treatment of DES. Most medications provide limited symptomatic treatment (18). Recently, POEM has been adopted as an effective treatment for DES because of its Author contributions excellent short-term clinical outcomes. POEM has also resulted in a significantly higher treatment success rate at 2 years (19–21). BC reviewed the literature and contributed to manuscript Compared with an extended myotomy, POEM is a more targeted drafting. HZ was assistants in POEM and responsible for revision procedure, is minimally invasive, and can help to control of the manuscript for important intellectual content. FW and PS symptoms in patients with spastic esophageal disorders (22). helped in the clinical case analysis. HL and BC collected the data. Multiple studies have demonstrated that POEM is effective (success YF was the chief operating surgeon and reviewed the manuscript. rate>80%) and safe for DES, with few significant adverse events All authors contributed to the article and approved the submitted (17, 23). According to multiple case reports, POEM results in a version. satisfactory short-term clinical response in patients with DES (24, 25). Here, we described the successful use of POEM for the treatment of acute pandysautonomia-associated DES in a child. Funding Our findings suggest that POEM is an alternative and promising therapy for acute pandysautonomia-associated DES, but further ThisworkwassupportedbytheScienceandTechnologyAction studiesareneededtoexplore its long-termeffects. Planof Xi’anScience and Technology Bureau [22YXYJ0081]. Conflict of interest Conclusion Toourknowledge,thisisthefirstreportofDESinachildwith The authors declare that the research was conducted in the acute pandysautonomia, and our findings may explain the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as apotential conflict ofinterest. gastrointestinal symptoms in such patients. POEM is a clinically effective therapeutic method for acute pandysautonomia-associated DES. Publisher’s note Allclaimsexpressedinthisarticlearesolelythoseoftheauthors Data availability statement and do not necessarily represent those of their affiliated organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the The datasets presented in this study can be found in online reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in this article, or repositories.
