Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


in 1975.This fall occurred before inten- 60 sive care,which was introduced only when the NMR had fallen 35 below 15 per 1,000.The greatest reduction ofNMR coincided 40 with the introduction of free prenatal care, high coverage of skilled childbirth care, and the availability of antibiotics. 12 8 20 Although the number ofpostneonatal and late neonatal deaths 28 24 25 5 1 1 is amenable to public health interventions (such as immuniza- 2 1 1 9 6 4 tion and improved hygiene and nutrition),larger reduction of 1980 1995 2000 1980 1995 2000 early neonatal deaths and ofmaternal deaths requires a system LMICs High-income countries that provides effective clinical care—particularly during child- Source: Authors’ calculations, based on UNICEF, various years; WHO 1998c, forthcoming. birth,which is more challenging. Figure 27.2 Trends in Early and Late Neonatal and Postneonatal Direct Causes of Neonatal Death Mortality, by Country Income Levels Fewer than 3 percent of the world’s neonatal deaths occur in countries that have vital registration data that are reliable 2000,compared with about a 15 percent reduction in LMICs. enough to use in cause-of-death analysis. Population-based There has been no measurable decline in the regional average information in high-mortality settings often depends on NMR for sub-Saharan Africa. However some regions have verbal autopsy tools of variable quality. The Child Health made significant progress in reducing NMRs,particularly Latin EpidemiologyReferenceGroupundertookanextensiveexercise America and the Western Pacific.Some low-income countries toderiveglobalestimatesforprogram-relevantcausesofneona- such as Bangladesh, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka have achieved taldeath,includingpretermbirth,asphyxia,sepsis/pneumonia, NMR reductions of 40 to 50 percent.In South Asia and Sub- neonatal tetanus, diarrhea, and other causes, with the latter Saharan Africa, the decline in late neonatal deaths was influ- includingspecificbutlessprevalentcausessuchasjaundice.For enced by the halving of neonatal tetanus deaths that occurred low-mortalitycountries,vitalregistrationdatafrom45coun- during the 1990s as a result ofincreased tetanus toxoid protec- trieswithfullvitalregistrationcoverage(cumulativesamplesize tion and clean delivery practices.By 2000,two-thirds ofLMICs of96,797)wereincluded.Forhigh-mortalitycountries,studies had eliminated neonatal tetanus and an additional 22 countries were identified through extensive systematic searches, and a were nearing this goal. meta-analysis was performed after applying inclusion criteria Newborn Survival | 533 and using standard case definitions (56 studies, cumulative riskofneonataldeaththanfactorsidentifiedduringpregnancy, sample size of 13,685). Models were developed to simultane- which are in turn associated with greater increases in risk ously estimate the seven selected causes of death by country thanprepregnancy factors (Lawn,Cousens,and Zupan 2005). (Lawn,Cousens,andWilczynskaforthcoming). Obstructed labor and malpresentation present the highest risk Three causes of death—infections (pneumonia, diarrhea, and require skilled intervention.The mother’s death substan- and
