Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


by country thanprepregnancy factors (Lawn,Cousens,and Zupan 2005). (Lawn,Cousens,andWilczynskaforthcoming). Obstructed labor and malpresentation present the highest risk Three causes of death—infections (pneumonia, diarrhea, and require skilled intervention.The mother’s death substan- and tetanus) (36 percent), preterm birth (28 percent), and tially increases the risk of death for her child.Greenwood and asphyxia (23 percent)—account for the majority of neonatal others(1987)reportthatofmotherswhodiedinlabor(N(cid:1)8), deaths.Causes ofdeath vary between the early and late neona- all the babies died within one year. tal periods,with deaths caused by preterm birth,asphyxia,and Delaysinaccesstocareforseverelyillyounginfantsarecom- congenital defects occurring predominantly during the first mon.Petersonandothers(2004),inastudyinUganda,findthat week of life and infection being the major cause of neonatal almost80percentofthecaregiversofseverelyillyounginfants deaths thereafter.Neonatal tetanus,a totally preventable condi- didnotcomplywithrecommendedreferralstoahealthfacility. tion,still accounts for more than a quarter ofa million deaths, Thereasongivenin90percentofthecaseswaslackofmoney, even after the second global elimination deadline has passed. underscoringtheneedforpro-poorfinancingmechanismsand Most neonatal tetanus deaths occur in 20 countries in South promotion of community demand for care. This recalls the Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, all of which have very high “threedelays”modelformaternaldeaths,whichoutlinesdelays NMRs.Variation in causes of neonatal death is seen between inrecognitionofillnessandinaccesstocareandprovisionof and within countries, closely associated with the NMR level. careonceatahealthfacility(ThaddeusandMaine1994). Where the NMR is high (more than 45 per 1,000 live births), Poverty is the root cause of many maternal and neonatal more than halfofneonatal deaths are due to infections;where deaths,either because it increases the prevalence ofrisk factors the NMR is low,prematurity and congenital abnormalities are such as maternal infections or because it reduces access to care. Hence,information regarding the local epidemiology is impor- 1995 and 2002 reveals that,within regions,the poorest quin- tant in prioritizing interventions. tiles have an NMR that is,on average,20 to 50 percent higher than that for the highest income quintile (table 27.1). Indirect Causes of Neonatal Death Deliberate programmatic focus is required to ensure that care reaches poor families. Anestimated20millionlowbirthweight(LBW)infants(thatis, weighing less than 2,500 grams), are born each year— Applying Lessons from Epidemiology to Programs 25percentof theminSouthAsia(BlancandWardlow2005). Althoughgloballyonly16percentofnewbornshaveLBW,60to There are almost 4 million neonatal deaths annually.Given that 80 percent of neonatal deaths occur in LBW infants (Lawn, the proportion of child deaths that occur during the neonatal Cousens, and Wilczynska forthcoming). LBW is due to short period (currently 38 percent) will increase over time,the MDG gestation (preterm birth), intrauterine growth restriction for child survival cannot be met without a significant reduction (IUGR),orboth.Globally,almostone-thirdofneonataldeaths in the NMR.Most neonatal deaths are in Sub-Saharan Africa aredirectlyattributabletopretermbirth.Incontrast,ananaly- and South Asia and are due to preventable causes. Historical sis of vital registration data
