Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


without a significant reduction (IUGR),orboth.Globally,almostone-thirdofneonataldeaths in the NMR.Most neonatal deaths are in Sub-Saharan Africa aredirectlyattributabletopretermbirth.Incontrast,ananaly- and South Asia and are due to preventable causes. Historical sis of vital registration data for 45 countries and of five data demonstrate that the NMR can be reduced to 15 per 1,000 population-based studies suggests that a maximum of 1 to without intensive care. 2percentof neonataldeathsaredirectlyattributabletoIUGR Priority should be given to two main gaps in the provision in full-term neonates (Lawn,Cousens,andWilczynska forth- ofcare.The first is the continuum ofcare by time.The period coming). Prematurity and full-term IUGR are also indirect through pregnancy and childbirth into infancy contains a gap causes or risk factors for neonatal deaths, particularly deaths at childbirth and during the first week of life, when most resulting from infection. The relative risk among preterm neonatal deaths—and also most maternal deaths—occur. infantsismuchhigherthanforfull-termIUGRinfants(Yasmin Addressing this gap will involve strengthening safe mother- andothers2001).Complextechnologyisnotnecessarytoavoid hood and child survival services and institutionalizing links at mostdeathsinmoderatelypretermnewborns.Extraattention the subnational, national, and global levels. The second gap towarmthandfeedingandtopreventionorearlytreatmentof is between levels of care (figure 27.1)—particularly with the infectionsiscrucial(Lawn,McCarthy,andRoss2001). family-community level, since poor and rural communities Maternal health and health care are important determinants account for the majority of neonatal and maternal deaths. cence,and into pregnancy (Pojda and Kelley 2000).In general, for skilled care,and empowering communities,including poor intrapartum risk factors are associated with greater increases in communities,to make healthful decisions. 534 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joy E. Lawn, Jelka Zupan, Geneviève Begkoyian, and others INTERVENTIONS and afterward . Cleanliness (for example, cord care and hand washing), warmth provision, and exclusive Weundertookliteraturesearchesandcategorizedinterventions breastfeeding reduce neonatal illnesses, especially infection. bytimeperiod(duringpregnancy,andintrapartumandpost- Implementation ofthis package will depend on the setting,the natalorneonatalperiods)(table27.2).Wefocusoninterven- coverage offacility delivery,and the availability ofcommunity tions delivered during the neonatal period that are likely to workers or other channels but is feasible even in poorly reduce neonatal deaths,as opposed to those delivered during developed health systems (Knippenberg and others 2005).The the neonatal period that yield later benefits (for example, role and value ofthe mother are central. preventionofmothertochildtransmissionofHIV).Although Although much has been written to describe traditional rigorousevaluationofevidenceisvital,evidenceisnotavailable newborn care practices,few studies assess behavior change.An forsomewell-establishedinterventions.Inthecaseofneonatal exception is the study by Meegan and others (2001) of the resuscitation, for example, a randomized controlled trial is Masai in Kenya, where behavioral messages about cord care impossibleforethicalreasons,yettheinterventionisacorner- practices were associated with the virtual elimination ofneona- stone of neonatal care in high-income settings.Some impor-
