Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


expert committee consensus exists, A* (cid:1)unethical to test rigorously and widely practiced as standard (for example, blood transfusion, neonatal resuscita- tion). Boldtext signifies priority packages or interventions considered in detail in this chapter. Newborn Survival | 537 Table 27.3 Packages for Universal Scale-up of Newborn Care Estimatedcurrent Reduction coverage(percent) Number of in all- target popula- Sub- cause Intervention tion per year South Saharan NMR package Contents (millions) Implementation strategy Asia Africa (percent) Comments on evidence Family- Healthy home care practices All newborn Women’s groups and 36 28 10–40 Mortality reduction based South Asia and home after emergencies); if birth out- system, including support for infants and community Sub-Saharan birth side a facility, then clean referral. If appropriate, extra management of acute Africa 63 delivery kit. care of moderately small respiratory infections not babies at home and included in range shown. community-based manage- ment of acute respiratory infections. Essential Immediate drying, warmth, All newborn Skilled attendant, or if no 11 14 20–30 Based on conservative newborn care early breastfeeding, hygiene infants: skilled attendant available, combining of single at the time of maintenance, and infection World 130 some simple postnatal interventions (for example, birth prevention practices are feasible at breastfeeding) in the South Asia and home with other cadres package. Sub-Saharan ofworkers. Africa 63 Neonatal Resuscitation after birth if Newborns not Skilled attendant. 3 3 10–25 Limited studies, mainly from resuscitation required breathing at lower NMR settings with birth: high percentage of asphyxia World 6.5 deaths, so range from studies was reduced. South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa 3.2 Extra care of Extra support for warmth LBW neonates: Facility-based care for (cid:2)10 (cid:2)10 20–40 Most studies are nonran- small new- (kangaroo mother care), World 20.0 severely preterm babies. domized controlled trials at borns feeding, and illness Community-based care is the community level in SouthAsia and identification and effective for moderately settings with extremely high Sub-Saharan management preterm babies. LBW rates. Effect depends Africa 10.7 on baseline NMR and LBW rates. Emergency Management of ill infants, Neonates with Facility-based care with (cid:2)20 (cid:2)20 20–50 Meta-analysis of effect on care of ill especially those with illnesses: antibiotics and supportive the NMR of oral antibiotic newborns neonatal infections World 13.0 care. Community-based management of acute management with oral respiratory infections in the SouthAsia and antibiotics for acute community in high-mortality Sub-Saharan respiratory infections. settings. Africa 6.3 Neonatal Neonatal packages as All newborn Supply of care throughout
