Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


with oral respiratory infections in the SouthAsia and antibiotics for acute community in high-mortality Sub-Saharan respiratory infections. settings. Africa 6.3 Neonatal Neonatal packages as All newborn Supply of care throughout (cid:2)5 (cid:2)5 — No study data identified. packages above, in addition to family infants: pregnancy, childbirth, and Marginal budgeting for plus MCH planning, prenatal care, and World 130 postnatal period with bottlenecks tool suggests package comprehensive obstetric increased demand and 58percent in South Asia South Asia and care packages improved referral systems. and 71 percent in Sub-Saharan Sub-Saharan Africa. Africa 63 Source:Local data or Darmstadt and others 2005; Knippenberg and others 2005; Lawn, Cousens, and Zupan 2005. Note: The range of reduction of all-cause NMRs given for each package is independent of the others; hence, the total is greater than 100 percent. 538 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joy E. Lawn, Jelka Zupan, Geneviève Begkoyian, and others infants and is ideally provided by a skilled attendant,but in the Nevertheless, only 11 percent of babies in South Asia and absence ofskilled care,many ofthe tasks can be carried out at 14 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa are exclusively breastfed to home by alternative cadres of workers. WHO’s essential care three months. The Bellagio group estimated a 15 percent package includes resuscitation, which we consider separately reduction in the NMR through 99 percent coverage ofexclusive because the skill level required is more complex. breastfeeding and an 11 percent impact reduction through Clean care of the umbilical cord (clean blade and tie) is clean delivery (Jones and others 2003).Conservatively,an es- important in reducing the incidence of neonatal tetanus and sential newborn care package may result in a 10 to 25 percent umbilical sepsis,but evidence for topical treatment ofthe cord reduction in the NMR,but field trials of a combined package remains unclear (Zupan and Garner 2000). Hand washing is are still required.No economic assessments were identified. important at all levels of care. Hypothermia is an important and preventable contributor to morbidity and mortality,espe- Newborn Resuscitation cially in preterm babies. The so-called warm chain involves the newborn, encouraging skin-to-skin contact between the spontaneously and require stimulation. About half of those newborn and the mother, and avoiding bathing for at least have difficulty initiating breathing, requiring resuscitation 12 hours (Lawn, McCarthy, and Ross 2001). In hospitals in .The major reasons for failure to breathe include LMICs,many newborns are hypothermic,and staffknowledge preterm birth and acute intrapartum
