Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


fell significantly—by sionals recognized that asphyxia was the leading cause of Source:Zhu and others 1997. Newborn Survival | 539 bag and mask led to the development of a prototype mouth- infants,andallLBWbabiesweretargetedforincreasedhome to-mask device operated by blowing expired air. A study by visits. Special sleeping bags were provided for warmth, and Massawe and others(1996) in two teaching hospitals, one in supportwasgivenforbreastfeedingandearlytreatmentofpos- TanzaniaandtheotherinIndia,foundthatresuscitatorsusing sibleinfections.TheNMRfellby87percentinthemoderately thisdevicecouldmaintainamaximumofonly20breathsper pretermgroup(35to37weeks)(Bangandothers1999). minute, one-third of the recommended rate. Low-cost (less So-called kangaroo mother care involves continuous skin- thanUS$5)versionsofthebagandmaskarenowavailable,and to-skin contact between mother and baby to provide thermal itistherecommendeddeviceforresuscitation. stability and promote exclusive breastfeeding for clinically Although small-scale studies show that nonprofessional stable preterm infants.The published evidence relates to facili- cadres can learn the technique ofresuscitation (Bang and oth- ty-based care with or without kangaroo mother care after ers 1999;Kumar 1995),a significant effect on mortality has not discharge.Mortality impact data for kangaroo mother care are been demonstrated,and the feasibility of maintaining compe- lacking, but a review by Conde-Agudelo, Diaz-Rossello, and tency and the cost-effectiveness oftraining such cadres have yet Belizan (2000) that included three randomized controlled tri- to be ascertained. If traditional birth assistants attend, say, als found that serious morbidity was reduced by about 60 per- 20 deliveries a year, they would encounter a baby requiring cent at the six-month follow-up visit. Although cost has not resuscitation an average ofonly once a year,so the effect would been formally evaluated,it must be considerably less than for be lower,and the cost per life saved higher,compared with a incubator care. The lack of assessments of kangaroo mother facility-based midwife who does 200 or more deliveries a year. care at community level is a research gap. traditional birth assistants can become a widespread policy.In increased survival of LBW infants with improved care. One the meantime, it should be ensured that where skilled atten- from Papua New Guinea demonstrated a 56 percent reduction dants exist, they have the skills and equipment to perform in the NMR with the introduction ofstandards for care and of neonatal resuscitation. basic technology (Duke,Willie,and Mgone 2000).Data from Because a randomized controlled trial would be considered Ghana showed a 28 percent reduction in mortality for LBW unethical,the studies identified apply a before-and-after com- infants with support for breastfeeding, attention to warmth, parison.No cost assessments were identified.Achieving wider and early management of infections and jaundice using stan- coverage of resuscitation is a challenge, especially for the dard protocols (Lawn,McCarthy,and Ross
