Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


to warmth, parison.No cost assessments were identified.Achieving wider and early management of infections and jaundice using stan- coverage of resuscitation is a challenge, especially for the dard protocols (Lawn,McCarthy,and Ross 2001). 47percent ofthe world’s babies born at home. The reported effect for extra care ofLBW babies in the com- munity varies between 20 and 40 percent,excluding Bang and Extra Care for Small Babies others’ (1999) study because additional interventions were Because 60 to 80 percent of neonatal deaths occur in LBW involved.Given the high LBW prevalence in these studies,the babies,targeting this group for additional preventive and early effect may be less in other settings with a lower LBW preva- curative care is a logical approach to mortality reduction. lence. Data from facilities that do not offer intensive care Addressingdeathsamongseverelypreterminfants(fewerthan suggest a similar or slightly larger effect. Cost-effectiveness 32 weeks of gestation) is more complex, but most preterm assessments were not identified. infants are moderately preterm (33.0 to 36.9 weeks). Excess Emergency Care for Ill Newborns mortality from acquired infections and other complications can largely be prevented or managed without intensive care. Formanyoftheworld’s4millionneonataldeaths,theimmedi- A number of community-based studies have undertaken atecauseisaneonatalillnesspresentingasanemergencyeither simplifiedidentificationofsmallbabiesandprovidedextracare soon after birth (such as complications of preterm birth and athome,especiallyfeeding(includingtheuseof adropperor asphyxia)orlater(becauseofneonataltetanusorcommunity- cupfeedingifrequired),warmthpromotion,andcordcleanli- acquired infections). Other important but less prevalent ness. The reported NMR reductions range from 25 percent conditions include jaundice and hemorrhagic disease of the (Pratinidhi and others 1986) to 42 percent (Daga and others newborn. Long-term disability follows many neonatal condi- 1988).Datta(1985)appliedacomprehensiveapproach,includ- tions, but it is poorly documented. Many serious neonatal ing weighing all babies and providing extra home support to problemspresentwithsimilarsigns:inabilitytofeed,breathing LBWinfantsthroughfeedingcounselingandearlyrecognition difficulty,andtemperatureinstability.Allthoseconditionshave reducedbymorethan30percent,withthegreatestreduction 1999),and preventive interventions may be the most realistic amongthegroupof1,500-to2,500-grambabies.InBangand option in those conditions. Early phototherapy for jaundice others’(1999)study,90percentofneonataldeathswereinLBW reduces both mortality and chronic disability subsequent to 540 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joy E. Lawn, Jelka Zupan, Geneviève Begkoyian, and others kernicterisandisfeasibleinfacilities(WHO2003c).Wefocus neonatal estimates by country (Lawn, Cousens, and ontheclinical neonatalmanagementofinfection,whichisthe Wilczynska forthcoming). mostprevalentillnessandthemostfeasibletoscaleup. • Baseline coverage estimates for the neonatal packages pre- Ameta-analysisofcommunity-basedtrialsofcasemanage- sented in table 27.3 are taken from local data, if available ment of pneumonia in Africa and Asia yields a summary (for example,exclusive breastfeeding prevalence),or drawn estimate for NMR reduction of 27 percent (Sazawal and from coverage estimates in the Lancet newborn series Black 2003). The antibiotic regime used was mainly oral co- (Darmstadt and others 2005;Knippenberg and others 2005; trimoxazole, although two
