Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


of Nepal recently held a series of stake- holder meetings and developed a plan for a national newborn for education and transportation. When governments set health strategy.Representatives from such diverse backgrounds mortality reduction targets for children under five,they should as neonatology, safe motherhood programs, and community consider setting simultaneous targets for reducing NMRs mobilization efforts met over a five-month period to create an (Martines and others 2005). The level of participation— operational plan for newborn care through 2017 (Khadka, involving multiple stakeholders, including women and com- Moore,and Vikery 2003). munities—and the political will to implement and finance such plans are also crucial to success. Reaching every pregnant Step 2: Achieve Optimal Newborn Care within the woman and every newborn with effective care involves every- Constraints of the Current Health System one:the family and community provide home care and advo- supplies care during normal pregnancy,childbirth,and postna- oritization and good leadership are crucial to using resources tal care,along with emergency obstetric and young infant care well (Lawn,McCarthy,and Ross 2001).Program areas related makers provide supportive policy and resources,in particular immunization, family planning, and nutrition, along with 544 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Joy E. Lawn, Jelka Zupan, Geneviève Begkoyian, and others Box 27.3 Adding Newborns to IMCI in India An estimated 1.1 million neonatal deaths occur annually weeks ifthe infant is LBW,to provide essential new- in India—approximately 28 percent of the world’s total. born care, extra care of the LBW infant, and early Between 1960 and 1990, India achieved a 50 percent identification and referral for sepsis increasing proportion of infant deaths during the neona- with the integration ofhealth and nutrition services tal period. The government looked for ways to add to at household levels. existing programs and to increase coverage of services, The marginal cost ofadding N (for neonatal) into IMCI especially given that most neonatal deaths occur in the in relation to clinical care is estimated at less than US$0.10 first few days oflife in home settings. per person, given the existence of traditional IMCI pro- Two major adaptations have been made to the standard grams. Training the health and nutrition workers (2 per IMCI approach: 1,000 population) and providing home visits is estimated • Integrated management of neonatal illness was intro- to cost US$0.22 per person.In 2002,the government began duced into the global generic guidelines for IMCI,which to test the integrated management package in 50 districts do
