Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


neonatal illness was intro- to cost US$0.22 per person.In 2002,the government began duced into the global generic guidelines for IMCI,which to test the integrated management package in 50 districts do not cover illness in the first week oflife. ofUnited Nations Children’s Fund areas ofprogramming. • Focus on outreach services and family care, taking the This initiative has prompted policy makers to scale up programintocommunitiestoachievehighercoverage,is implementation throughout the country during the — three home visits in 10 days for normal weight Program. babies,with a further three in the subsequent three Source:Adapted from K. Suresh, M. Babille, and V. K. Paul, personal communication, April2004. maternal-child transmission ofHIV,and prevention ofmalaria cause of neonatal deaths and launched the Neonatal during pregnancy. The reality is that such interventions have Resuscitation Program, developing a course with standard not reached most women and children and that existing serv- guidelines and certification ofcompetency (Deorari and others ices fail to coordinate along the continuum ofcare.This situa- 2001). Between 1990 and 1992, more than 12,000 physicians tion results in gaps in service and missed opportunities. In and nurses were trained.The effect ofthe program was evalu- Africa,for example,the regional average for prenatal care cov- ated in 14 teaching hospitals in India.Changes in resuscitation erage is 64 percent,yet coverage of tetanus toxoid immuniza- practices were noted,and asphyxia-related mortality fell signif- tion is 42 percent (Knippenberg and others 2005). Syphilis icantly. The prevalence of survivors with disabilities was not treatment is another opportunity that frequently is missed dur- assessed. ing prenatal care (Gloyd,Chai,and Mercer 2001).Including the An alternative model of skill strengthening has been tested newborn in transport and funding programs that currently in South Africa,where significant improvements in knowledge address only maternal emergencies may be of little marginal and skills have been documented as a result of the Perinatal cost for significant benefit.In India,where integrated manage- Education Programme, a distance-run self-taught course ment ofinfant and childhood illness (IMCI) is being scaled up, (Woods and Theron 1995). More than 30,000 midwives in the marginal cost ofadding selected neonatal conditions to the South Africa have passed the examinations,and the program’s US$0.10 per capita (box 27.3). schools. for newborn care. Competency-based training in neonatal reported as contributing to 10 to 75 percent of all perinatal resuscitation is a rarity and must be incorporated into preser- deaths (Lawn and Darmstadt forthcoming). Thus, there is vice as well as in-service training (box 27.1).India’s National scope for improving
