Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


resuscitation is a rarity and must be incorporated into preser- deaths (Lawn and Darmstadt forthcoming). Thus, there is vice as well as in-service training (box 27.1).India’s National scope for improving outcomes and client satisfaction in virtu- Neonatology Forum identified birth asphyxia as a leading ally all settings.For example,in much ofSub-Saharan Africa,a Newborn Survival | 545 Box 27.4 SouthAfricaandthePerinatalProblemIdentificationProgramme:LocallyOwnedDataforDecisionMaking Care for pregnant women and newborns in South Africa further 14 percent of avoidable factors were administra- ranges from unattended childbirth in rural mud huts to tive and,in particular,were related to transportation and advanced obstetric and intensive neonatal care. National lack of staff members.About 25 percent of the avoidable with regional and racial disparities. During the 1990s, care, especially poor monitoring (not using the parto- growing awareness of the importance and preventability graph) and inadequate response to problems identified of newborn deaths resulted in the development of the during labor.Halfofthe cesarean sections were delayed by Perinatal Problem Identification Programme. Under the an hour or more. program,basic data are entered into a computer program The program identified the following national priori- that calculates perinatal mortality,supporting the identifi- ties to reduce perinatal deaths: cation of avoidable factors to aid the prioritization of • reducing intrapartum asphyxia, especially in rural actions to addresskey problems.More than 44 sites across areas—for instance,using maternity waiting homes and the country use the Perinatal Problem Identification addressing transport delays Programme, covering almost 80,000 births annually, or • improvingintrapartummanagementbymeansofproto- approximately 10 percent ofdeliveries,with 3,045 perina- cols(partographandeffectivemonitoring),competency- tal deaths (2000). Avoidable factors were identified in basedtraining,andongoingaudit 83 percent of deaths, with half of these being patient • implementing syphilis screening and treatment more related, such as a delayed response to complications. A effectively. Source:Authors, based on data from Pattinson 2002. significant proportion ofwomen deliver in facilities that collect reach those women now. Feasible strategies to reduce NMRs data that could be used to identify achievable improvements in exist (for example,efforts to improve family behaviors,tetanus care (box 27.4). toxoid immunization campaigns,and community-based man- agement ofacute respiratory infections) and have been demon- strated in poorly developed health care systems.Interim strate- Step 3: Phase the Systematic Scaling-Up of Newborn Care gies are available,such as linking a group of traditional birth Although some resource-poor countries have succeeded in attendants with skilled attendants (Koblinsky, Campbell, and building functional systems (box 27.5),the process,especially Heichelheim 1999) or medical assistants to perform cesarean and childhood illnesses is the ideal, but
