Chapter
KEYWORDS: care, neonatal, newborn, deaths, percent, mortality, interventions, countries, health, birth, lawn, nmr, neonatal deaths, coverage, reduction


of the effects of maternal infec- others2005). tions,particularly ofsynergies between HIV,malaria,and sex- ually transmitted diseases (Ticconi and others 2003) as well as the potential synergy between maternal infections and appar- RESEARCH PRIORITIES ent asphyxial injury to neonates (Peebles and Wyatt 2002). The overwhelming priority in newborn health research Incidence and intervention data regarding neonatal mor- remains how to reach underserved populations. This effort bidity and disability at the population level are entirely lacking involves demonstrating the effect,cost,and scaling up process in LMICs.Improved tools for assessing cause-specific mortali- for packages ofinterventions.The processes ofadapting effec- ty and morbidity outcomes are required to advance answers to tive packages to different settings using various cadres ofhealth many of these questions (Lawn, Cousens, and Wilczynska workers and of identifying indicators of successful implemen- forthcoming). tation that are replicable are all basic to scaling up yet have been littlestudied.Costingofnewbornhealthinterventionsisamajor gap. Virtually no published examinations of the marginal CONCLUSIONS benefits and costs of adding neonatal interventions to exist- ing programs aimed at safe motherhood, IMCI, HIV/AIDS, Reductions in neonatal mortality are necessary to meet the malaria, and sexually transmitted diseases are available. A fourth MDG.High-impact,low-cost,feasible interventions are demonstration of such synergies will help influence policy available. They could avert approximately 70 percent of the makers to incorporate neonatal issues into these and other pro- world’s 4 million neonatal deaths, according to analysis pre- grams.Testing innovative approaches to protect poor families sented here,an estimate similar to the estimates in the Lancet from user costs is also important. neonatal series (Darmstadt and others 2005). Large gains in neonatal deaths and contributes indirectly to many more reduced childhood morbidity and disability,prevention ofstill- deaths,reducing the incidence ofpreterm birth and decreasing births,and improved maternal survival,thus contributing also deaths among preterm infants are important areas for study. to the achievement ofthe fifth MDG. Low-tech extra care ofsmall babies has the potential to reduce The success of some low-income countries is encouraging, deaths significantly,but the effectiveness of various home and butinSouthAsiaandSub-SaharanAfrica,coverageisgenerally facility packages,including the potential ofemollients for pre- low,progress is slow,and inequity is high.While countries con- oping high-tech devices for newborn care to address the 2 per- tem, simpler approaches at family-community level and cent of neonatal deaths in rich countries. Yet there is little through outreach services can save many lives now,even in the investment in the development and testing oflow-cost,simple, poorest settings. Well-known interventions, such as neonatal robust devices in the settings
