Pateletal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2019) 13:81
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, takotsubo, stress, etal, normal, stress cardiomyopathy, lower, endoscopy, upper, left, syndrome, oral, takotsubo cardiomyopathy, case, fig


Pateletal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2019) 13:81 CASE REPORT Open Access Takotsubo cardiomyopathy after an upper and lower endoscopy: a case report and review of the literature Ashruta Patel1,2*, Yunseok Namn2, Shawn L. Shah2, Ellen Scherl2 and David W. Wan2 Abstract Background: Gastrointestinal endoscopies are safe and follow guidelines that emphasizepatient care. Although adverse outcomes are rare, high-risk patients may be predisposed to certain events. Case presentation: We report a unique case of a Caucasian womanwith takotsubo cardiomyopathy following an upper and lower endoscopy. Conclusions: Our report suggests theimportanceof understanding possible endoscopic complications inpatients who may experience stresscardiomyopathy. Keywords: Endoscopy, Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, Stress cardiomyopathy, Broken heart syndrome, Apical ballooning syndrome Background management approaches have been used when treating Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (also known as stress cardio- at-risk patients who underwent endoscopies and expe- myopathy, broken heart syndrome, or apical ballooning rienced symptoms of stress cardiomyopathy, because syndrome) is defined as a transient systolic dysfunction thispresentation isgenerally uncommon. with diffuse wall motion abnormalities, often mimicking the presentation of an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) Case presentation but without evidence of obstructive coronary artery A 73-year-old Caucasian woman with a past medical his- disease (CAD) or plaque rupture [1–3]. The acute pres- tory (PMHx) of esophageal dysmotility, gastroesophageal entation, electrocardiogram (ECG) findings, and cardiac reflux disease (GERD), lymphocytic colitis, chronic ob- enzymes are similar to those seen in ACS . It is structive pulmonary disease (COPD), essential hyperten- thought that the condition largely affects postmeno- sion (HTN), hyperlipidemia (HLD), neuropathy, and pausal older women exposed to intense physical or emo- depression presented with substernal pleuritic chest pain tional stress . Gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopies are and lightheadedness that began 2 hours after an uncom- done on the basis of evidence-based guidelines that plicated outpatient upper and lower endoscopy. She did prioritize safety and high-quality care . To date, there not have any known allergies. Her family history was sig- have only been six reported cases of stress cardiomyo- nificant for myocardial infarction (MI) in her father and pathy in patients after endoscopy. We present the cerebrovascular accident in her mother. She was married second case of takotsubo cardiomyopathy following both withtwochildren,retired,previouslyworkedforanadver- an upper and lower endoscopy. This case is published to tising agency, and resided in New York City. She smoked help other health professionals understand what medical one pack of cigarettes per day for 30years and quit in 2001. She drank two alcoholic drinks per night. Medica- tionstakenpriortoadmission,duringhospitalization,and
