Pateletal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2019) 13:81
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, takotsubo, stress, etal, normal, stress cardiomyopathy, lower, endoscopy, upper, left, syndrome, oral, takotsubo cardiomyopathy, case, fig


the pa- 16 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation of 93% on tient’s recent upper and lower endoscopic procedures room air. She was a well-appearing woman, alert, (Fig. 3a and 3b). The patient’s angina resolved after the and in no acute distress. She was well hydrated and procedure, and repeat ECG revealed less marked ST de- well nourished. Her skin color, texture, and turgor pressions and resolved ST elevations (Fig. 4). She was were all normal without any suspicious rashes or le- discharged that were equally round and reactive to light and extremity edema. The TTE at the time was significant with intact extraocular movements. Her ear, nose, for a high left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) gradient and throat examination were all normal. Her neck (peak LVOTgradients of 42mmHg at rest and 122mm was supple without any adenopathy. Her thyroid was Hg with Valsalva maneuver). Her ejection fraction (nor- of normal size and symmetric without any bruits. mal range, 55–70%) at the time was 81%, and pertinent Her lungs were clear to auscultation without any results of TTE included fibrocalcific changes of the aor- wheezing, rhonchi, or rales. Her heart sounds in- tic valve with mildly reduced opening; moderate mitral cluded a regular rhythm and rate without murmurs, annular calcification; systolic anterior motion of the an- rubs, or gallops. Her abdominal examination revealed terior mitral valve leaflet; and normal functioning of the a soft, nontender abdomen, normoactive bowel left atrium, right ventricle, tricuspid valve, and pulmonic sounds, and was nonsignificant for masses or orga- valve. She was discharged with instructions on avoiding nomegaly. Her extremities did not show any deform- diuresis and beginning initiation of metoprolol (6.25mg ities, edema, skin discoloration, clubbing, or cyanosis every 6hours) for negative inotropy and to decrease sys- and had good capillary refill. No joint swelling, de- tolic anteriormotion. formity, or tenderness was observed. Her peripheral pulses were normal. The patient was alert and ori- ented to person, place, and time. Her speech was Discussion and conclusions fluent with appropriate repetition and comprehen- Takotsubo cardiomyopathy is a reversible cardiomyop- sion. Cranial nerves II–XII were intact without any athy that typically occurs in older women over the age deficits. Her gait was normal and steady. Her sensa- of 50 and can mimic ACS . It can be diagnosed in tion (light touch, pinprick, position sense, and several ways, including one or more of the following vibration sense) was
