Pateletal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2019) 13:81
KEYWORDS: cardiomyopathy, takotsubo, stress, etal, normal, stress cardiomyopathy, lower, endoscopy, upper, left, syndrome, oral, takotsubo cardiomyopathy, case, fig


50 and can mimic ACS . It can be diagnosed in tion (light touch, pinprick, position sense, and several ways, including one or more of the following vibration sense) was grossly intact. Her reflexes were criteria: “transient left ventricular dysfunction presenting 2+ and symmetric at the biceps, triceps, knees, and as apical ballooning or with focal wall motion abnorma- ankles. She had no pronator drift of outstretched lities; an emotional, physical, or combined trigger; trig- arms; her muscle bulk and tone were normal; and gers of neurologic disorders; new ECG abnormalities; she had full strength bilaterally. elevated cardiac biomarker (troponin and creatine Pateletal.JournalofMedicalCaseReports (2019) 13:81 Page3of6 Fig.1InitialelectrocardiogramshowingT-waveinversionsinleadsI,II,andV4–V6withsubmillimeterSTelevationsinV4–V6 kinase) levels; no evidence of infectious myocarditis; distinguishACSfromtakotsubocardiomyopathy.Were- and/orpostmenopausalwomen”. port a rare case of stress cardiomyopathy after upper Although the etiology is unknown, the vast majority of and lower endoscopy in a patient with no known history stress cardiomyopathies are thought to have an under- of cardiopulmonary disease. Though the mechanism in lying emotional (for example, griefor anger) and/or our patient’s case is unclear, it is thought that perhaps physical (for example, postsurgical or malignant) trigger the insertion of the endoscopy scope triggered an over- . There have been a total of six reported cases of drive of the sympathetic nervous system, resulting in post-GI endoscopy-induced takotsubo cardiomyop- tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy . It is import- sociated cardiac findings, management, and etiologies post-endoscopic cardiac complications in those pa- thought to be responsible for stress cardiomyopathy in tients who may be susceptible to stress cardiomyop- these reported cases . Two of these studies are athy per diagnostic criteria . not included in the chartbecause they were published in In the United States, stress cardiomyopathy is more theJapaneselanguage . common in post-menopausal women and in those who MI has a clinical presentation similar to that of takot- have cardiovascular risk factors . Studies have shown subo cardiomyopathy without coronary artery obstruc- takotsubo cardiomyopathy to be associated with tion; however, there are significant differences in increased brain natriuretic peptide levels compared with treatment, prognosis, and complications, possibly due to ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) . The underlying emotional and/or physical stress, triggering product of peak troponin I levels and left ventricular catecholamine excess, and sympathetic nervous system ejection fraction (LVEF) have been studied and can help hyperactivity [6, 7, 10, 14–17]. Examples of stressors distinguish between takotsubo syndrome and STEMI include surgery, medical conditions (trauma, sepsis, . Troponin-LVEF product
