TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: disorders, axis, brain-gut, psychiatric, brain-gut axis, psychiatric disorders, publications, china, research, axis psychiatric, gut, depression, countries, anxiety, immune


disease”, “neurological disorders” and “Parkinson’sdisease”.Cluster2(greencolor)referstothebrain-gut axisandstress-relateddiseasessuchas“anxiety”,“stress”and“irritable 4 Discussion bowel syndrome”. Cluster 3 (deep blue color) refers to immune- related topics such as “inflammation”, “neuroinflammation” and Tothebestofourknowledge,thiswasthefirstbibliometric “immunesystem”.Cluster4(yellowcolor)referstobrainbehavior- study to provide a comprehensive review of the developing related topics such as “cognition”, “behavior”, “brain” and trends of research on the brain-gut axis and psychiatric “neurodevelopment”. Cluster 5 (purple color) refers to depression- disorders. Overall, 2,298 publications were identified between relatedtopicssuchas“depression”,“majordepressivedisorder”,and 1993and2022.Thenumberofpublicationsonthebrain-gutaxis “bipolar disorder”. Cluster 6 (light blue color) refers to probiotic- and psychiatric disorders has rapidly grown, especially during FrontiersinImmunology 07 frontiersin.org Chenetal. A C B FIGURE5 Analysisoftheresearchhotspotsonbrain-gutaxisandpsychiatricdisorders((A)Networkvisualizationmapofkeywordsco-occurrence; (B)Overlayvisualizationmapofkeywords;(C)Top30keywordswiththestrongestcitationburstsfrom1993to2022). the past decade, which is in line with the overall trend of the China, all others in the top 10 productive countries are in the brain-gut axis (45, 46) and microbiome research (47–49). The high-income level. As an upper-middle income level country, annual publication numbers pattern included a stable (before China has invested huge financial support in microbiology 2013)andrapidgrowthperiod(2013andafterward),indicating research with the launch of the Microbiome Initiative (CMI) that the exploration of the brain-gut axis and psychiatric by the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2017, including disorders is an emerging hot research topic (45). This may be incremental funding for the National Natural Science related to the release of the second phase of the Integrative Foundation of China, the “973” program, the “863” program Human Microbiome Project (iHMP) funded by the National andthespecialprojectsoftheChineseAcademyofSciences(51). Institutes of Health in 2013 (50). Some studies have predicted Liu et al. reported that China’s research and development thatthebrain-gutaxisandpsychiatricdisorderswillcontinueto expenditure in the field of microbiology is now almost 400 gainstrongattentioninthecomingdecade(45). million yuan (approx. USD 57.8 million) per year (51). With the initiative of the Microbiome Project (50, 51), Publications from Ireland had the most significant impact, researchoutputsonthebrain-gutaxisandpsychiatricdisorders which may be due to the fact that the most active authors havebeenpublishedinmultiplecountries,withChinabeingthe came from Ireland (46, 49), specifically from the Alimentary findingisnotcompletelyconsistentwiththeoverallresearchon funds by the Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) and several the brain-gut axis as a field, which showed that the USA collaborativecompanies(46). contributed the most publications, followed by Ireland and Journalanalysiscanhelpresearchersselectappropriatejournals China (46). This may indicate that China has substantially for their research outputs. In this study, the journals Nutrients, increased research activities related to the brain-gut axis and BrainBehaviorandImmunity,andFrontiersinPsychiatrywerethe psychiatricdisorders.Adequateresearchfundingisrequiredto most productive journals on the brain-gut axis and mental achievelargescientificresearchoutputs.Inthisstudy,exceptfor disorders. Previous bibliometric analyses on gut microbiota and FrontiersinImmunology 08 frontiersin.org Chenetal. depression (49) or the brain-gut axis
