TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: disorders, axis, brain-gut, psychiatric, brain-gut axis, psychiatric disorders, publications, china, research, axis psychiatric, gut, depression, countries, anxiety, immune


BrainBehaviorandImmunity,andFrontiersinPsychiatrywerethe psychiatricdisorders.Adequateresearchfundingisrequiredto most productive journals on the brain-gut axis and mental achievelargescientificresearchoutputs.Inthisstudy,exceptfor disorders. Previous bibliometric analyses on gut microbiota and FrontiersinImmunology 08 frontiersin.org Chenetal. depression (49) or the brain-gut axis (46) showed that Brain anxiety and ASD were the most studied psychiatric disorders. IFincreasingfrom6.170in2018to19.227in2022;itwasranked6 mechanisms in the bidirectional pathways between certain outofthe274journalsinNeurosciences(46).Inaddition,thetop10 psychiatric disorders and the brain-gut axis including the mostactivejournalspublishedlessthan20%ofthetotalnumberof activation of immune response, the dysfunction of HPA, and publications on the brain-gut axis and psychiatric disorders, altered neurotransmitter or neuromodulators levels (2, 9, 56). suggestingadisperseddistributionofpublicationsacrossjournals, Anxiety-likebehaviorisoftenparalleltodepression-likebehaviors probably because brain-gut axis and psychiatric disorders involve (9). Evidence also indicated that the dysbiosis of gut microbiota multipleresearchareasincludingmicrobiology,clinicalneurology, could increase the vulnerability to develop depression or anxiety, neurosciences,psychiatry,immunology,biochemistry&molecular while depressive or anxiety symptoms could be induced by fecal biology,nutrition&dietetics,pharmacology,andgastroenterology transplantation(9,21,56).Further,thelinkbetweenASDandgut &hepatology,endocrinology&metabolism(49). microbiota through the brain-gut axis has been widely studied. The research team at the University of College Cork Changes in the composition of the gut microbiota and microbial contributedmorethan20%ofpublicationstotheareaofbrain-gut metabolitesmaybeassociatedwiththedevelopmentofASDandits axisandmentaldisorders,whichwasconsistentwiththeiroutputs severity, which may be relevant in the diagnosis, prevention, and reported in other studies, such as microbiome and IBS (52), targetedinterventionofASD(9). depression (49), and obesity (48). The most influential authors in Furthermore,wefoundthattheevolutionoftopicsstartedfrom leadingresearchonthebrain-gutaxisandpsychiatricdisordersfrom GI-relatedproblems(e.g.,IBS,gastrointestinaldisorders,anorexia, research fields involved gastroenterology, microbiology, and neurodegenerative & neurodevelopmental diseases (e.g., neurology, all of which provided new perspectives on the Parkinson’s disease, ASD, ADHD, Alzheimer’s disease) in recent interventionandtreatmentofconditionssuchasdepression,ASD, years, indicating that gut-to-brain pathways have been of more andobesity(45).Inaddition,theyfirstproposedandstrengthened recent focus. We also found that gut microbiome was the most the research on “psychobiotic” (53), which contributed to the frequent keyword, further confirming its pivotal role in the growingpublicationsonthebrain-gutaxisandpsychiatricdisorders. bidirectional pathway of the brain-gut axis. Earlier studies found The collaborative networks showed a trend of homophily alterations in the gut microbiota composition in patients with characterizedbyclosecollaborationbetweeninstitutionswithin psychiatric disorders; however, the cause-effect relationship thesameregionorbetweenauthorsfromthesameinstitution. remains controversial. It is unclear whether dysbiosis of the gut Thetimeevolutionmapscancapturetheauthorsorinstitutions microbiota is the cause or the result of a specific disorder, or a ofearlierandemergingstudies;forexample,NingboUniversity combination of both (9). Furthermore, the specificity of gut startedtherelevantstudiesinthepasttwoyears.Inaddition,this microbiota determines its different changes and roles in studyshowedacollaborativerelationshipbetweenauthorsand individual disorders, which increases the uncertainty of clarifying institutions on a specific topic, which helps to understand the thiscause-effectrelationship(9). researchers’directions(54). Theclusterofimmune-relatedtopicsreflectstheimportant The most cited articles reflect the most valuable and role of the immune system on the bidirectional pathway of the influentialfindingsthatcanfurtherguidetheresearchdirection brain-gutaxis.Previousstudieshaveaddressedvariousmechanisms in one field. The article “Mind-altering microorganisms: the of the brain-gut axis in psychiatric disorders,
