TYPEOriginalResearch
KEYWORDS: disorders, axis, brain-gut, psychiatric, brain-gut axis, psychiatric disorders, publications, china, research, axis psychiatric, gut, depression, countries, anxiety, immune


valuable and role of the immune system on the bidirectional pathway of the influentialfindingsthatcanfurtherguidetheresearchdirection brain-gutaxis.Previousstudieshaveaddressedvariousmechanisms in one field. The article “Mind-altering microorganisms: the of the brain-gut axis in psychiatric disorders, involving the impact of the gut microbiota on brain and behaviour” synergistic effects of neural, endocrine, and immune systems (9, published in Nature Reviews Neuroscience was the highest 57). For example, evidence showed that activation of the vagus cited article (44), with citations growing 1.8-fold from 2019 nerve by cytokines could stimulate neuronal anti-inflammatory (1,204)to2022(2,161).Thisarticleproposedthattheconceptof responses, and immune cells could produce various a brain-gut axis may lead to the development of novel neurotransmitters and other factors that regulate mood and therapeutics for the management of several neurological and behaviors (58). In addition, immune activation or psychiatricdisorders(44).Thesecondhighestcitedarticlefound immunomodulation might act on serotonergic systems and that the lactobacillus strain could regulate emotional behavior therebyexertinginfluenceonphysiologyandbehaviors(58). and central GABA receptor expression in a mouse model, Probioticshavebeenaveryrecenthotspotandappeartobe indicating a specific strain of bacteria can play a therapeutic an emerging research frontier in the field of brain-gut axis and roleinstress-relateddisorders(55). psychiatricdisorders,whichcanrepresentnoveltreatmenttargets Thehotspotanalysisshowedthatpsychiatricdisordersrelated for both psychiatric disorders and GI-related diseases (59, 60). tothebrain-gutaxismainlyfocusedonneurodegenerativediseases Previousstudieshaverevealedtheimportantrelationshipbetween (e.g.,Alzheimer’sdisease,Parkinson’sdisease),neurodevelopmental probiotics, psychobiotics and cognitive and behavioral processes disorders (e.g., ASD, ADHD), and stress-related diseases (e.g., (61).Withtheproposed“psychobiotic”theory,probioticshavebeen anxiety, depressive and bipolar disorders), of which, depression, viewed as a key element in affective disorders and the immune FrontiersinImmunology 09 frontiersin.org Chenetal. system (53, 61). For instance, previous findings indicated that Approvalofthefinalversionforpublication:allco-authors.All psychobioticsmayhaveanxiolyticandantidepressanteffects(62– authors contributed to the article and approved the 64),whichcouldinvolvemultiplesignalpathwayssuchastheENS submittedversion. and vagus nerve, the immune signal network of interactions between microbe-associated molecular patterns and immune factors(65).Additionally,BifidobacteriumbreveCCFM1025could Funding have antidepressant-like effects by reshaping the gut microbiota community,reducinginflammation,andrebalancingtheHPAaxis hyperfunction (66). Furthermore, the benefits of probiotics were The study was supported by the National Science and alsofoundinAlzheimer’sdiseaseandacutemania(67).However, Technology Major Project for investigational new drug theeffectsofprobioticsonASDwereinconclusive;someevidence (2018ZX09201-014),theBeijingMunicipalScience&Technology on ASD (67, 68). Moreover, the positive effects of probiotics in Macau(MYRG2019-00066-FHS;MYRG2022-00187-FHS). treating schizophrenia are still controversial and need further investigationsinfuturestudies(69,70). Thiswasthefirststudytoexplorethedevelopingtrendsinthe Acknowledgments pastdecadesandpotentialfrontiersofresearchonthebrain-gutaxis andpsychiatricdisordersfromabibliometricperspective.However, there are some limitations in this study. Based on the The authors are grateful to all participants and clinicians recommendation of bibliometric analysis guidelines (30) that the involvedinthisstudy. useofasingledatabaseispreferable,theincludedpublicationswere limitedtoWoS,whichisthelargestbiomedicaldatabaseandthe mostcommonlyuseddatabaseforbibliometricanalyses(20,71).In Conflict of interest addition,acomparativeanalysisofthepublicationcharacteristicsby psychiatricdisorderwasnotperformedbecausemultiplepsychiatric disorderswereoftenincludedinidentifiedpublications. Theauthorsdeclarethattheresearchwasconductedinthe Insummary,researchonthebrain-gutaxisandpsychiatric absenceofanycommercialorfinancialrelationshipsthatcould disordershasgrownrapidly,especiallyinthelastdecade.China, beconstruedasapotentialconflictofinterest. theUSA,Irelandandotherhighincomecountriescontributedto the most publications in this area. Depression, anxiety, and Publisher’s note autism have been the most frequently studied psychiatric disorders in recent years. Probiotic treatment is a potential Allclaimsexpressedinthisarticlearesolelythoseoftheauthors newtherapydirectionforpsychiatricdisordersinthisarea. and
