Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


ABSTRACT The first comprehensive pediatric dyslipidemia guidelines were published by the National Cholesterol Education Program’s Expert Panel on Blood Cholesterol Levels in Children and Adolescents in 1992 and were updated by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) in 1998. In 2008 the AAP issued an updated clinical report detailing recommendations for screening and evaluation of cholesterol levels in children and adolescents as well as prevention and treatment strategies. Since the publication of the first guidelines, rates of pediatric obesity have significantly increased, resulting in a concomitant increase in dyslipidemia. Recently, options for pharmacotherapeutic interventions in pediatric patients have expanded with new FDA approved indications of several lipid lowering medications, as well as additional safety and efficacy data. In 2011, The National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) published its comprehensive report Integrated Guidelines for Cardiovascular Health and Risk Reduction in Children and Adolescents. As with previous guidelines, lifestyle modifications with an emphasis on a heart-healthy diet and daily moderate to vigorous exercise remain an integral part of treatment for pediatric lipid disorders; however, the recommendations for patients requiring management with pharmacotherapy have changed, and will be the focus of this discussion. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION The diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of dyslipidemia in youth has undergone significant transformations in recent years. As detailed by the Pathobiological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth (PDAY) and Bogalusa Heart studies, dyslipidemia plays a vital role in both the initiation, as well as the progression of atherosclerotic lesions in children and adolescents ( 1 - 3 ). Because of their role in premature cardiovascular disease, control of dyslipidemia provides clinicians with an opportunity for reducing morbidity and mortality. Observational data from individuals with genetic mutations that lower atherogenic cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), over a lifetime are associated with fewer events and longer life expectancy ( 4 , 5 ). While these observations are very encouraging, it is not known if achieving the same level of lipid lowering with medications over decades will offer the same protective effects as observed in individuals with life-long lower cholesterol secondary to a genetic mutation ( 6 ). Table 1 provides a comparison across the evolution of guideline recommendations for the initiation of pharmacologic intervention with the goal of balancing risk and benefit ( 7 - 11 ). Table 2
