Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


transplant Post-orthotopic heart transplant Kawasaki disease with current aneurysms Moderate Risk Conditions Kawasaki disease with regressed aneurysms Chronic inflammatory disease HIV infection Nephrotic syndrome PHARMACOTHERAPEUTIC TREATMENT IN YOUTH The treatment of youth with lipid lowering medications presents some unique challenges and consideration due to their developmental stage, the possibility of extended durations of treatment, and the potential use of concurrent medications that may be counter-productive by increasing lipid levels. As patients progress into adolescence it is particularly important for the patient to understand not only the need for their lipid lowering therapies, but also the consequences of non-compliance. Counseling regarding pharmacotherapy should begin at an early age with developmentally appropriate explanations and expand as patients mature. During adolescence when patients are developing their independence counseling that addresses how to integrate their therapy into their own social norms is important for achieving compliance to both pharmacotherapy as well as lifestyle modifications. Additionally, the cost of therapy significantly impacts compliance and should be factored into therapy decisions especially as youth transition into adulthood and may be faced with changes in insurance coverage. It is also critical to continually readdress the correct use of medications as patients are likely to be on multiple therapies and adolescents will begin some their own medication management as they mature. Regular monitoring for adverse events and side effects of therapy is essential as youth will have a greater lifetime exposure compared to adults and long-term data is generally limited. As with all pharmacotherapy careful consideration should be given to potential drug interactions including those that may increase lipid levels. It is not uncommon for adolescent patients to be prescribed medications which have the potential to negatively impact lipid levels such as systemic steroids or oral contraceptive pills. Each patient case must be evaluated on an individual basis to determine the risk and benefit of prescribing medications which negatively alter lipid levels for patients also utilizing lipid lowering therapies. It should be noted there is significant risk for adolescent females should they become pregnant while taking lipid lowering medications as some have demonstrated a negative impact on fetal development. Adolescent females should be counselled regarding pregnancy and methods of contraception should be discussed. The US Medical Eligibility Criteria for Contraceptive Use compiled by the CDC details several contraceptive methods where the benefits generally outweigh any theoretical or proven risk for patients with hyperlipidemias ( 12 ). HMG-CoA REDUCTASE
