Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


23 ). In their study of lovastatin, Clauss and colleagues reported no clinically significant alterations in vital signs; growth; hormone levels including luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, dehydroepiandosterone sulfate, estradiol, and cortisol; menstrual cycle length; liver function tests; or muscle function tests ( 24 ). Lambert and colleagues also found lovastatin generally well tolerated with no serious clinical adverse effects noted ( 25 ). While increased, levels of aspartate aminotransferase did not exceed two times the upper limit of normal and alanine aminotransferase did not display significant changes in study participants. Creatine kinase was elevated, greater than three times the upper limit of normal, in three patients. All subjects remained asymptomatic and the elevated creatine kinase levels resolved spontaneously while no adjustment was need in their medication. Assessment of growth and sexual maturation, by Tanner staging and estimation of testicular volumes, in youth treated with lovastatin found no significant differences between the treatment groups and placebo at either 24 or 48 weeks ( 26 ). While the authors reported no significant change in serum hormone levels or biochemical parameters of nutrition, they noted that the study was under powered to detect statistically significant changes in these safety parameters. Use of pravastatin has been shown to have minimal adverse events dispersed evenly between the active drug recipients and those who received placebo ( 27 ). Plasma thyroid-stimulating hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, cortisol, creatine phosphokinase, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, total bilirubin, and alkaline phosphatase levels failed to show significant changes from baseline in all treatment groups. Rodenburg and colleagues also evaluated the safety of pravastatin based on annual or biannual evaluation of plasma creatine phosphokinase levels, liver enzymes, sex steroids, gonadotropins, and hormones of the pituitary-adrenal axis ( 29 ). Height, weight, age at menarche, Tanner staging, and testicular volume were recorded at baseline and either annually or biannually. Two subjects demonstrated elevated creatine phosphokinase levels which returned to normal without adjustments in therapy, and were presumed to be due to extreme physical exercise. No occurrence of myalgia was associated with elevation in levels of creatinine phosphokinase. None of the subjects discontinued therapy due to adverse events or laboratory abnormalities. Similarly, Wiegman and colleagues examined the safety of pravastatin evaluated at baseline, one year, and two years via multiple variables including: sex steroids, endocrine function parameters, height, weight, body surface area, Tanner staging, menarche or testicular volume, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and creatine phosphokinase
