Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


and two years via multiple variables including: sex steroids, endocrine function parameters, height, weight, body surface area, Tanner staging, menarche or testicular volume, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and creatine phosphokinase ( 28 ). All safety parameters demonstrated no statistically significant differences between active drug recipients verses placebo in changes from baseline. The safety of rosuvastatin was assessed by Avis and colleagues. Laboratory monitoring including liver enzymes and creatine kinase levels, and markers of growth and development, such as Tanner staging ( 30 ). Two serious adverse events were reported including blurred vision in one patient in the placebo group and a vesicular rash progressing to cellulitis in one patient taking rosuvastatin 20 mg. Transaminase levels either remained normal or normalized without permanent discontinuation of treatment. While elevations in creatine kinase and reports of myalgia did occur, symptoms and creatine kinase levels normalized without permanent discontinuation of therapy. Normal progression of height, weight, and sexual development were observed. The safety of simvastatin during short term therapy has also been reported. Levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, creatine kinase, and physical examination all demonstrated no significant differences between simvastatin treated and placebo participants ( 31 ). de Jongh and colleagues evaluated the safety of simvastatin in a second trial by monitoring adverse events as well as changes in alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and creatine kinase levels ( 32 ). Of note, none of the differences reported in events or laboratory values between simvastatin recipients and placebo reached statistical significance. Additionally, there were no statistically significant differences documented for height, body mass index, cortisol levels, testicular size and testosterone levels, menstrual cycle and estradiol levels, and Tanner staging. Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels demonstrated a statistically significant decrease in the simvastatin group compared to placebo. Braamskamp and colleagues investigated the efficacy and safety of pitavastatin in pediatric patients diagnosed with hyperlipidemia. 106 patients were enrolled in the study, ages 6-17, for a 12-week period ( 37 ). Patients were randomly assigned to 4 different groups categorized by dose 1 mg, 2 mg, 4 mg, or placebo ( 37 ). The results showed a reduction in all 3 dose groups in comparison to placebo, the 1 mg group showed a 23.5% reduction in LDL-C, the 2 mg group showed a 30.1% reduction, and the 4 mg group showed a 39.3% reduction ( 37 ). There was also a 52-week extension period where patients assigned to the
