Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


mg group showed a 30.1% reduction, and the 4 mg group showed a 39.3% reduction ( 37 ). There was also a 52-week extension period where patients assigned to the 1 mg group were up-titrated to a maximum dose of 4 mg to try and achieve an LDL-C level of >110 mg/dL ( 37 ). There were no safety issues of concern throughout the study. The results indicated that pitavastatin is safe and efficacious for use in pediatric patients, 6-17 years of age, and it was well-tolerated ( 37 ). Long-term data regarding the impact of statin therapy on growth, development, and reduction of cardiac risk are limited, particularly for high intensity statin therapy. Recently, Kusters and colleagues evaluated the safety of statin therapy in children and adolescents with familial hypercholesterolemia after 10 years of treatment comparing laboratory safety markers as well as growth and maturation in untreated siblings ( 36 ). Only three patients discontinued therapy due to adverse events. Safety parameters such as aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, creatine kinase, estimated glomerular filtration rate, c-reactive protein, and age of menarche did not differ between treated patients and siblings, demonstrating safety over the 10-year treatment period. The authors do note; however, that the study was underpowered to detect the occurrence of rare events ( 36 ). When initiating HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy, as with any new medication therapy, it is imperative for clinicians to establish an accurate baseline, monitor for new symptoms, and counsel both patients and family members regarding potential adverse events. Females should be informed about the need to avoid pregnancy and breastfeeding while using statins. Statins may be taken with or without meals, but are commonly given with the evening meal or at bedtime as this has the potential to improve LDL-C reduction ( 38 ). As a major substrate of P450, such as CYP3A4, there are multiple drug interactions associated with statin therapy. Grapefruit juice has gained considerable notoriety as a potential food interaction; however, it should be noted that more than a quart of grapefruit juice would have to be consumed to increase serum statin levels. Of more concern is the possible interaction of gemfibrozil and statins, which should either be avoided as it can increase the toxicity of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Macrolides and antifungal azoles are classes of drugs commonly prescribed to children, and they should be avoided as often as possible as they
