Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


increase the toxicity of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Macrolides and antifungal azoles are classes of drugs commonly prescribed to children, and they should be avoided as often as possible as they increase serum statin levels leading to potentially enhanced myopathic effects. Additionally, patients should avoid herbal products and nutraceuticals, such as red yeast rice, which may further enhance adverse effects. BILE ACID SEQUESTRANTS Bile acid sequestrants, or bile acid binding resins, present an additional treatment option for youth with severe dyslipidemia. Bile acid sequestrants represent one of the oldest classes of medications available to treat dyslipidemia and were the only medication recommended in the 1992 NCEP Pediatric Panel Report, at a time when no data were available for statin use in youth ( 4 ). While no longer a recommended first-line therapy, bile acid sequestrants do have potential as a treatment option either alone or in combination with a statin ( 9 , 10 ). At present, colesevelam is the only bile acid sequestrant with FDA approval for youth age 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ( 39 , 40 ). Despite the lack of FDA approval, both colestipol and cholestyramine have been studied in pediatric patients ( 41 - 49 ). A number of clinical trials have evaluated the bile acid sequestrants in pediatric patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia and other forms of severe dyslipidemia. While palatability and tolerance remain potential barriers to effective therapy, in general, bile acid sequestrants have demonstrate significant reductions in both total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol in study subjects ( 40 , 43 , 44 , 48 , 49 ). Table 5 provides a summary of bile acid sequestrants, pediatric approval and indications, recommended dosing ranges, comments on therapy, and supporting clinical trials. As outlined in Table 6 , studies demonstrated some variability in efficacy for the available bile acid sequestrants ( 40 , 43 , 44 , 48 , 49 ). Table 5. Bile Acid Sequestrants View in own window Medication Pediatric Approvals & Indications Dosing Comments Clinical Trials Colesevelam Age 10-17 Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia 1.875 g twice daily or 3.75 g daily May be used as monotherapy or in combination with a statin Stein, et al ( 40 ) Colestipol (Note: Not FDA Approved) Age 7-12 Primary hypercholesterolemia 5 g twice daily, 10 g daily, or 125-500 mg/kg/day N/A McCrindle, et al ( 43 ) Tonstad, et al ( 44 ) (Note:
