Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


measured via adverse events, vital signs and physical exam, laboratory monitoring, and Tanner staging. The most common adverse events related to use of colesevelam were gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. It is important to note that no choking or difficulty swallowing were reported with the use of colesevelam. Vital signs, physical exams, laboratory monitoring, and Tanner staging remained the same or progressed as expected throughout the study period. McCrindle and colleagues evaluated conventional high-dose colestipol versus a combination of low-dose colestipol plus pravastatin, but did not cite safety as an endpoint for their study ( 40 ). The researchers did conduct safety monitoring in the form of laboratory tests, physical evaluation, and adverse event reporting. Significant deviations from baseline were noted for alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, and aspartate aminotransferase at various time intervals with different medication regimens; however, the authors noted that when compared to reference values, none of the laboratory results were considered abnormal. Study participants in the two medication regimens did not significantly vary in weight gain, height changes, or body mass index. While the majority of patients experienced no adverse events, gastrointestinal symptoms such as constipation, gas or bloating, or stomach ache were more commonly reported by the patients taking the high-dose colestipol. The authors found similar suboptimal compliance with both regimens as determined by medication counts at the end of each study period. Tonstad and colleagues also assessed the tolerability of colestipol granules by monitoring side effects as well as by having subjects’ complete subjective evaluations ( 44 ). Side effects associated with colestipol included constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, nausea, reduction in appetite, and abdominal pain. The subjective evaluations indicated that only 21% of patients liked the taste of the colestipol; however, of those who had previously taken bile acid binding resin, 86% preferred the taste of the newer orange flavored granules. Thirty seven percent of subjects also reported that they frequently forgot to take the medication, while 44% intentionally eliminated the medication from their routine on special occasions or during trips. The acceptability and compliance of cholestyramine has been studied ( 48 ). Eighty two percent (82%) of children preferred the pill formulation of cholestyramine compared to 16% who preferred the powder. Two percent of children in the study preferred neither form of the medication. Compliance was significantly impacted by medication formulation with patients taking the pill form reporting 61% compliance while those
