Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


percent of children in the study preferred neither form of the medication. Compliance was significantly impacted by medication formulation with patients taking the pill form reporting 61% compliance while those on the powder formulation were only 50% compliant. Compliance increased by at least 25% for 42% of patients when they switched to the pill formulation. Tonstad and colleagues assessed the safety of cholestyramine by measuring height velocity, erythrocyte folate, total plasma homocysteine, serum fat-soluble vitamins, and side effects ( 49 ). Weight and mean height velocity standard deviation scores were not statistically significant between treatment and placebo groups during the study. The cholestyramine active treatment group demonstrated decreased vitamin D levels and increased homocysteine levels. Differences in erythrocyte folate were not significant between the active treatment and placebo groups. Reported adverse events included intestinal obstruction, abdominal pain, nausea, and loose stools. Unpalatability was a common reason participants withdrew from the study. As demonstrated by the previous studies, while bile acid sequestrants do present an effective therapy option, their side effect profile, issues of tolerability and drug interactions with statins make their use clinically challenging. It is generally recommended that all concurrent medications be given either one hour before or four hours after bile acid sequestrants to prevent decreased absorption of the additional therapies ( 41 , 46 ). Use of bile acid sequestrants is generally limited to patients optimized on statin therapy who require additional therapy to achieve goal or those that cannot tolerate statins. Data on long-term safety, however, are generally lacking. It should also be noted that bile acid sequestrants can increase triglyceride levels and should not be used in patients with increased triglyceride levels. FIBRIC ACID DERIVATIVES Experience with fibric acid derivatives in youth is limited. Currently there are no fibric acid derivatives with FDA approval for use in pediatric patients. Both fenofibrate and gemfibrozil are available in the United Sates, but lack pediatric data on safety, efficacy, and dosing ( 50 , 51 ). While there is very limited information on the use of bezafibrate in youth, the product is not available in the United States ( 52 ). It should be noted that fibric acid derivatives have the potential to increase the incidence in adverse events, such as rhabdomyolysis, when used with statins ( 45 , 50 , 51 ). However, the use of fibrates should be considered and can be beneficial in pediatric patients
