Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


events, such as rhabdomyolysis, when used with statins ( 45 , 50 , 51 ). However, the use of fibrates should be considered and can be beneficial in pediatric patients who also have triglyceride abnormalities (TG levels > 500 mg/dL) ( 9 , 53 ). NIACIN Niacin provides a potential adjunct therapeutic option for youth with severe dyslipidemia who have not achieved their lipid goal. Extended-release niacin is the only formulation that has FDA-approval for use in children ≥ 16 years of age ( 54 ). Despite a lack of FDA approval for ages younger than 16, limited efficacy and safety data are published for the use of niacin in children 10 years of age as older as adjunct therapy ( 54 ). Table 7 summarizes data on recommended dosing ranges, comments on dose adjustments, and references supporting clinical trials. Colletti and colleagues conducted a retrospective review to evaluate the efficacy and adverse effect profile of niacin for children with severe hypercholesterolemia ( 54 ). The effects on serum lipid profiles are detailed in Table 8 . Adverse effects were common, affecting 76% of children, and similar to those reported for adults including: flushing, abdominal pain, vomiting, headache, and elevated liver enzymes. Due to the high prevalence of adverse effects, use of niacin should be limited to patients not achieving goal with other therapies or those who cannot tolerate alternative adjunctive options. As with fibrates, niacin can also be considered for the purposes of treating pediatric patients who are concurrently diagnosed with hypertriglyceridemia ( 9 ). Table 7. Niacin View in own window Medication Pediatric Approvals & Indications Dosing Comments Clinical Trials Niacin Extended release: >16 years of age Note: Immediate release is not FDA Approved: Age ≥ 10 Adjunct therapy Initial: 100-250 mg/day (Max: 10 mg/kg/day) divided three times daily with meals May titrate weekly by 100 mg/day or every 2-3 weeks by 250 mg/day Colletti, et al ( 54 ) Abbreviations: mg=milligrams, kg=kilograms. Table 8. Niacin View in own window Study Medication Dose Results Colletti, et al ( 54 ) Niacin 500-2,250 mg/day LDL-C HDL-C TC TG -17% +4% -13% +13% Adapted from National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI): Expert Panel on Integrated Guidelines for Cardiovascular Health and Risk Reduction in Children and Adolescents: Summary Report. Pediatrics . 2011;128(S5):S213-S256: Table 9 -11. Abbreviations: mg=milligrams, LDL-C=low density lipoprotein cholesterol, HDL-C=high density lipoprotein cholesterol, TC=total cholesterol, TG=triglycerides. EZETIMIBE Ezetimibe
