Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


for Cardiovascular Health and Risk Reduction in Children and Adolescents: Summary Report. Pediatrics . 2011;128(S5):S213-S256: Table 9 -11. Abbreviations: mg=milligrams, LDL-C=low density lipoprotein cholesterol, HDL-C=high density lipoprotein cholesterol, TC=total cholesterol, TG=triglycerides, PH=polygenic hypercholesterolemia, FH=familial hypercholesterolemia, FCHL=familial combined hyperlipidemia. Van der Graaf and colleagues assessed the safety of combination therapy with ezetimibe and simvastatin based on reported adverse events as well as laboratory monitoring and clinical examination ( 58 ). After 53 weeks, 71% of study participants reported some types of treatment-emergent adverse events. Of those events reported, only influenza, nasopharyngitis, and headache occurred in greater than 5% of participants. Consecutive transaminase elevations of at least three times the upper limit of normal were reported in 6 participants; however, all values resolved with interruption or discontinuation of therapy. Elevations in creatine phosphokinase occurred infrequently and were not associated with myalgia at levels greater than three times the upper limit of normal. Height, weight, and sexual maturation were not significantly impacted by therapy. Ezetimibe affords flexibility in administration time with the ability to administer it without regard to meals or time of day ( 45 ). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have the risk of increasing myopathy and elevation in hepatic transaminases, but are generally considered a safe combination with ezetimibe. OMEGA-3 FISH OILS Omega-3 fish oils are a class of therapy for which there is significantly limited data in youth. To date the FDA approved formulations of omega-3 fatty acid lack a pediatric indication. High dose omega-3 fatty acid supplementation was evaluated by de Ferranti and colleagues, but ultimately the authors found no statistically significant improvement when subjects were compared to placebo ( 60 ). Chahal and colleagues similarly found no significant impact on hypertriglyceridemia when treating pediatric patients with fish oil ( 61 ). Khorshidi and associates performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effect of omega-3 supplementation on lipid profiles in children and adolescents. They found that omega-3 supplementation improved triglyceride levels in patients diagnosed with hypertriglyceridemia that were less than or equal to 13 years of age; however, there was no significant effect seen in HDL, LDL, or TC values ( 62 ). Omega-3 fish oils can be considered in those who have elevated triglyceride levels. FAMILIAL HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA AND THERAPEUTIC ADVANCES Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a common, but often misdiagnosed inherited gene disorder ( 63 ). The most common gene mutation seen in FH is in the low-density lipoprotein
