Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


THERAPEUTIC ADVANCES Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a common, but often misdiagnosed inherited gene disorder ( 63 ). The most common gene mutation seen in FH is in the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene (LDLR) accounting for 85-90% of cases, followed by the apolipoprotein (ApoB) gene (5-15% of cases) and the proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin 9 (PCSK9) genes (1% of cases) ( 63 , 64 ). Patients who are diagnosed with FH have abnormally elevated LDL levels from birth. FH is associated with a twenty-fold increased risk in premature cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular events ( 65 ). There are two different types of FH, heterozygous (HeFH) and homozygous (HoFH). Heterozygous patients have one mutated allele and are more commonly seen in practice, while homozygous patients have two mutated alleles and are very rare ( 66 ). Distinction between the two types is imperative because HoFH patients tend to be treatment resistant and carry a worse prognosis, if left untreated, these patients rarely make it past age 20 ( 66 ). Lipid lowering in these patients can be quite challenging, especially HoFH patients. Most typical therapies for lipid lowering require functional LDL receptors, therefore given the gene mutations which often render the receptors inactive, modest reductions of 10-25% in HoFH patients are usually all that will be gained ( 67 ). HeFH patients tend to see higher rates of reduction (25-40%) ( 68 ). However, first line treatment for both forms of FH is still high-intensity statin therapy at moderate to high doses to be initiated as early as age 8 ( 69 ). All seven statins are FDA-approved for the treatment of FH and have been proven to slow down the progression of carotid intima-media thickness ( 63 ). Statins also reduce the incidence of cardiovascular events and cardiac death ( 63 ). Until recently, long term data on the use of statins in this patient population was not available, but in 2019, a 20-year follow-up study of statins in pediatric patients with FH was published ( 70 ). The results found that the incidence of cardiovascular events and death was much lower in patients treated with statins ( 70 ). If LDL-C goals are not being met with the use of statins alone, the next recommend agent is ezetimibe; however, this should not be used in patients younger than 10 years of age ( 59 ). Ezetimibe is the second-line option
