Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


statins alone, the next recommend agent is ezetimibe; however, this should not be used in patients younger than 10 years of age ( 59 ). Ezetimibe is the second-line option to statins in these patients. It’s use in combination with statins has demonstrated a reduction of LDL-C levels below 135 in more than 90% of children with FH ( 71 ). In one of the only studies that assessed the coadministration of simvastatin and ezetimibe in children with HeFH, it was found to be safe, well tolerated and provided a higher LDL reduction (15%) compared with simvastatin alone in HeFH patients ( 72 ). However, when it was investigated as a monotherapy option for children with HeFH, it only produced LDL-C lowering of 27% ( 71 , 73 ). It is more appropriate to use as an adjunct therapy in this population of patients. Alternative medications that can be considered other second-line options are bile acid sequestrants ( 71 ). Colesevelam is safe to use, but limited to children >10 years of age ( 71 ). These drugs however have minimal LDL-C lowering effects, usually only seeing a 10-20% reduction, and more importantly are very poorly tolerated due to gastrointestinal side effects ( 71 ). PCSK9 Inhibitors Given the difficulty and importance of treating these patients, especially those with HoFH, there is a need for stronger lipid lowering options, which is where PCSK9 inhibitors come into play. These are a more recent class addition to the therapy options for managing FH, which help to reduce the degradation of LDL receptors and the removal of LDL-cholesterol ( 74 ). In a recent study assessing the efficacy/safety of lipid-lowering agents in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia, it was concluded that PCSK9 inhibitors were the most effective in lowering lipid levels ( 75 ). They have none of the same side effects as statins and produced similar CV benefits. Therefore, based on these conclusions, PCSK9 inhibitors are recommended as first-line agents in patients with hypercholesteremia that have intolerances or resistance to statins ( 75 ). There is currently one PCSK9 inhibitor approved for pediatric use. Repatha (evolocumab) was originally approved for use in patients 13 years of age and older ( 76 ), but the HAUSER-RCT study assessed the use of Repatha in patients ages 10-17 years of age for 24 weeks. It showed that the drug improved lipid levels (by approximately 38% in
