Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


the changes seen are still clinically significant based on these added benefits ( 80 ). It was also noted that this study produced similar results when compared to the ODYSSEY study which assessed the use of Praluent in adult patients with HoFH ( 80 ). The drug was deemed safe and there were no issues with tolerability ( 80 ). The study supports the use of Praluent as an adjunct therapy in HoFH patients already on first- and second-line therapies and not reaching their goal LDL-C levels ( 80 ). Another study assessed the use of Praluent in pediatric patients diagnosed with HeFH. The ODYSSEY KIDS study was a phase 2 dose-finding study that enrolled pediatric patients anywhere from 8-17 years of age ( 81 ). Patients were split into 4 cohorts and dosed every 2 weeks. Dosing was determined by weight and the primary endpoint assessed percent change in LDL-C from baseline to week 8 ( 81 ). Praluent demonstrated the best reduction in LDL-C levels in the highest dosed cohorts and was well-tolerated. This study also supported the use of the drug (with further analysis) in patients who require adjunct therapy, there is a phase 3 trial planned to assess the doses from this study that resulted in the greatest reduction in LDL-C levels. Overall, it is important to note that HoFH patients are more likely to fail PCKS9 inhibitors ( 82 ). This is attributable to their mechanism of action. This class of medication requires functional LDL receptors, and this is impaired or completely absent in HOFH patients ( 82 ). Therefore, effectiveness of PCSK9 inhibitors tends to be much higher in HeFH patients ( 82 ). Leqvio (inclisiran) is also another PCSK9 inhibitor currently not approved for pediatric use ( 83 ). The mechanism of action of this drug differs from Repatha and Praluent. Leqvio is a small interfering RNA (siRNA) that utilizes the RNA interference mechanism to cause the catalytic breakdown of mRNA for PCSK9, thus stopping the translation of the protein ( 84 ). It also only requires administration twice yearly as opposed to biweekly ( 84 ). There are currently ongoing studies investigating the possibility of using Leqvio in pediatric patients. ORION-13 and ORION-16 are studies assessing the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Leqvio in pediatric patients diagnosed with HoFH and HeFH, respectively ( 84 ). They are two-part (1-year double blind, the
