Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


ORION-16 are studies assessing the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Leqvio in pediatric patients diagnosed with HoFH and HeFH, respectively ( 84 ). They are two-part (1-year double blind, the other year open-label) phase 3 trials consisting of patients aged 12 to <18 years with FH ( 84 ). The primary endpoint is the percentage change in LDL-C from baseline to day 330 ( 84 ). Based on the results, this could be another drug option as adjunct therapy to consider for use. Angiopoietin-Like Protein 3 (ANGPTL3) Angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3) also presents a novel target of adjunctive therapy for patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia that are not meeting LDL-C goals with first-line agents ( 85 , 86 ). Evkeeva (evinacumab-dgnb) is a monoclonal ANGPTL3 inhibitor that is FDA-approved specifically for the adjunctive treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia in patients 5 years of age and older ( 87 ). Lomitapide Lomitapide is another potential treatment option for patients with HoFH. This medication works differently from more conventional options. It binds to microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) and prevents the production of lipoproteins that contain apo-B ( 88 ). This causes a decrease in the production of very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons. Since VLDL is converted into LDL, this mechanism ultimately causing a decrease in LDL-C levels ( 89 ). It is administered once daily at doses ranging from 5 to 60 mg ( 88 ). The side effect profile of lomitapide can be difficult for patients as it can cause severe gastrointestinal side effects (due to the decrease in absorption of fats in the intestines), most often diarrhea ( 89 ). But it is also associated with raised hepatic fats and enzymes ( 82 ). It is currently approved for adult use only, but it has become an option for use in pediatric patients through an expanded access program or a named patient basis ( 82 ). There was a case series done exploring the effect of lomitapide in 11 pediatric patients diagnosed with HoFH. It demonstrated that the drug was effective in reducing LDL-C with all 11 HoFH patients and showed a similar side effect profile to that seen in adult patients ( 82 ). GI complaints were moderated and did not cause any discontinuation of use ( 82 ). It also showed greater reduction in LDL-C levels at lower doses ( 82 ). The greatest benefit of lomitapide
