Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


and did not cause any discontinuation of use ( 82 ). It also showed greater reduction in LDL-C levels at lower doses ( 82 ). The greatest benefit of lomitapide was associated with its ability to reduce or stop the need for lipoprotein apheresis in the patients incorporated in this case study ( 82 ). An interesting mention about lomitapide from the case series is that adult patient data shows that early intervention utilizing the drug showed a potential for increased life expectancy and a delay in the time to first major adverse cardiovascular event ( 82 ). There is also currently an ongoing phase 3, open label trial investigating the efficacy and safety of lomitapide in pediatric patients with HoFH, estimated completion date is April of 2024 ( 82 ). Bempedoic Acid Bempedoic acid is a new medication that exerts its effects very similarly to that of statins. It works in the same pathway as statins and targets cholesterol biosynthesis ( 90 - 92 ). It is administered however as a prodrug and converted to active drug only in the liver and not in the muscles ( 90 - 92 ). The other difference between the two classes is that bempedoic acid inhibits ATP-citrate lyase (ACL), while statins inhibit HMG CoA reductase ( 90 - 92 ). Due to the lack of activation in skeletal muscles, this drug is a promising alternative to patients unable to take statins due to muscle related symptoms ( 90 - 92 ). The medication is FDA approved for use in patients with HeFH and those with established cardiovascular disease ( 93 ). It has shown promising results in adult trials, but there are currently no published pediatric trials to date assessing the safety or efficacy of use of the drug ( 93 ). There does however appear to be a trial in development: “An Open-Label Study to Evaluate the Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics, and Safety of Bempedoic acid in Pediatric Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia.” The results are highly anticipated so that this can offer another promising drug class for use in patients intolerant or unable to meet their LDL-C goals. FAMILIAL CHYLOMICRONEMIA SYNDROME Familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) is an incredibly rare autosomal recessive gene disorder ( 94 ). There is reduced or absent lipoprotein lipase activity causing disruption in chylomicron metabolism leading to severely elevated triglyceride levels resulting in acute recurrent pancreatitis ( 94
