Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


disorder ( 94 ). There is reduced or absent lipoprotein lipase activity causing disruption in chylomicron metabolism leading to severely elevated triglyceride levels resulting in acute recurrent pancreatitis ( 94 ). There is not however an increased risk of ASCVD with an FCS diagnosis ( 94 ). The best way to treat FCS is also often referred to as the most difficult as it requires patients to restrict dietary intake to <10-15% of daily calories ( 94 ). Other treatment options utilized are fibrates, omega-3 fatty acids and statins with variable responses, but the use of these medications is most commonly seen in patients who have multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome ( 94 ). Given the difficulty of ensuring these patients maintain low levels of triglycerides, medications like volanesorsen are being examined ( 94 , 95 ). Volanesorsen Volanesorsen is a second-generation 2’-O-methoxyethyl (2’-MOE) antisense therapeutic oligonucleotide. It works by inhibiting apoC3 thus lowering triglyceride plasma levels ( 94 ). When it binds to apoC3, this interrupts mRNA translation which consequently promotes triglyceride clearance/lowering of triglyceride plasma levels ( 94 ). The efficacy and safety of volanesorsen was assessed in the APPROACH study ( 96 ). It included 67 patients that were randomized to either weekly volanesorsen or placebo for 3 months ( 97 ). The results showed a 77% reduction in triglyceride plasma levels at the end of the study period and there was only 1 event of pancreatitis in the study group ( 97 ). The largest trial performed assessing the use of volanesorsen was the COMPASS trial ( 97 ). It included 114 patients who were randomized to either weekly injections of volanesorsen or placebo for a total of 26 weeks ( 97 ). The results showed that patients in the treatment group saw a reduction in triglyceride levels, chylomicron triglycerides, VLDL levels and apoC3 levels by more than 70% ( 97 ). There were also no occurrences reported of pancreatitis in any of the patients randomized to the volanesorsen group ( 93 ). In both trials, volanesorsen proved itself as a promising agent for treatment of hypertriglyceridemia in FCS patients ( 95 - 98 ). This drug is not approved for use in the US but is approved in other countries. CONCLUSION As noted in the 2011 NHLBI’s guidelines, available information regarding the treatment of youth with lipid disorders has greatly expanded. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, or statins, are
