Use of Lipid Lowering Medications in Youth
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, levels, familial, hypercholesterolemia, therapy, day, children, pediatric, safety, familial hypercholesterolemia, treatment, use, study, ldl-c


in other countries. CONCLUSION As noted in the 2011 NHLBI’s guidelines, available information regarding the treatment of youth with lipid disorders has greatly expanded. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, or statins, are now considered first-line pharmacologic treatment of children and adolescents with severe hypercholesterolemia who fail treatment with diet and exercise alone, although statins are only FDA approved for youth with familial hypercholesterolemia. Despite their ability to effectively reduced cholesterol levels, use of bile acid sequestrants continue to pose challenges for pediatric patients due to their unpalatability and are typically utilized as adjunctive therapy or for patients not able to tolerate statins. Fibric acid derivatives, as a class of medications, not only lack an FDA approved agent, but also continue to lack significant pediatric safety and efficacy data. Niacin, a potential adjunct therapy, lacks FDA approval for pediatric patients and is plagued by significant adverse effects, making it an unlikely therapeutic option for youth. Ezetimibe provides clinicians with an alternative adjunct therapy option when synergistically paired with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor or used as monotherapy for patients intolerant to statins and bile acid sequestrants. Despite their inherit appeal and popularity amongst the lay public, omega-3 fish oils have failed to demonstrate statistically significant cholesterol lowering in pediatric and adolescent patients, but can be used to lower triglyceride levels. PCSK9 and ANGPTL3 inhibiting agents are promising novel treatment options in pediatric patients diagnosed with FH. While recent years have witnessed a dramatic increase in studies of lipid lowering medications in youth, the long-term safety and efficacy data continue to present an active focus of research. REFERENCES 1. McMahan CA, Gidding SS, Malcom GT, Tracy RE, Strong JP, McGill Jr HC. Pathobiological determinants of atherosclerosis in youth risk scores are associated with early and advanced atherosclerosis. (PDAY) Pediatrics. 2006;118(4): 1447-1455. [ PubMed : 17015535 ] 2. Newman III WP, Freedman DS, Voors AW, et al. Relation of serum lipoprotein levels and systolic blood pressure to early atherosclerosis. (The Bogalusa Heart Study). N Engl J Med. 1986;314(3):138-44. [ PubMed : 3455748 ] 3. Berenson GS, Srinivasan SR, Bao W, Newman III WP, Tracy RE, Wattigney WA. Association between multiple cardiovascular risk factors and atherosclerosis in children and young adults. (The Bogalusa Heart Study). N Engl J Med. 1998;338(23):1650-1656. [ PubMed : 9614255 ] 4. National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP): Highlights of the Report of the Expert Panel on Blood Cholesterol Levels in Children and Adolescents.
