eNeurologicalSci35(2024)100500
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, msa, des, lower, atrophy, multiple, multiple atrophy, patients, esophageal, manometry, oesophagus, neurons, vomiting, normal, dysfunction


eNeurologicalSci35(2024)100500 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect eNeurologicalSci journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ensci Case report Distal oesophageal spasm in a patient with multiple system atrophy: A case report Yoya Onoa,1, Kenjiro Kuniedaa,1, Jun Takadab, Takayoshi Shimohataa,* A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T Keywords: A 74-year-old man developed orthostatic syncope, a feeling of food stuck in his chest, and postprandial vomiting Multiple system atrophy 3 years before presentation. Examination revealed severe orthostatic hypotension and cerebellar ataxia, and he Distal oesophageal spasm was diagnosed with multiple system atrophy (MSA) with predominant cerebellar ataxia. Videofluoroscopic ex- High-resolution oesophageal manometry amination of swallowing showed lower oesophageal stricture and barium stagnation within the oesophagus. Endoscopic balloon dilation Oesophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed hypercontraction of the lower oesophagus, and high-resolution oeso- phageal manometry showed premature contractions of the lower oesophagus and decreased oesophageal peri- stalsis. The median integrated relaxation pressure in the lower oesophageal sphincter was normal, and achalasia was therefore excluded. Based on the Chicago classification version 4.0, his oesophageal dysmotility was clas- sified as distal oesophageal spasm (DES). The stuck feeling in his chest and vomiting improved following endoscopic balloon dilation. This case suggests that DES can cause oesophageal food stagnation and postprandial vomiting in patients with MSA. 1. Introduction dizziness and syncope while standing, leading to frequent falls. At the same time, he noticed that food got stuck in his chest and he sometimes Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disorder that vomited after eating, leading him to choose to eat soft foods. He had no is characterized by the combination of cerebellar ataxia, Parkinsonism, dysarthria or urinary symptoms. He had no history of hypertensive drug and autonomic dysfunction. Some patients with MSA experience vom- use. Examination revealed severe orthostatic hypotension (OH) (supine iting due to food stagnation within the oesophagus, leading to aspiration position: blood pressure (BP) 104/62 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 72/min; pneumonia or suffocation . In addition, oesophageal dysmotility due immediately after standing: BP 53/36 mmHg, HR 80/min). There was to autonomic disturbance has also been reported in patients with MSA, no compensatory increase in HR, suggesting neurogenic OH (ΔHR/ including reduced oesophageal peristalsis and impaired relaxation of Δsystolic BP =0.16 <0.5) . Mild cerebellar ataxia was observed in the upper oesophageal sphincter (UES) . Studies of oesophageal ab- the upper extremities. There was no muscle weakness, sensory distur- normalities in MSA
