eNeurologicalSci35(2024)100500
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, msa, des, lower, atrophy, multiple, multiple atrophy, patients, esophageal, manometry, oesophagus, neurons, vomiting, normal, dysfunction


. Mild cerebellar ataxia was observed in the upper oesophageal sphincter (UES) . Studies of oesophageal ab- the upper extremities. There was no muscle weakness, sensory distur- normalities in MSA however, are limited, and their pathophysiology is bances, gait dysfunction, bradykinesia, or rigidity. Brain magnetic not fully understood. Here, we report a patient with MSA with pre- resonance imaging revealed cerebellar atrophy and enlargement of the dominant cerebellar ataxia who developed recurrent vomiting due to fourth ventricle. Dopamine transporter single-photon emission distal oesophageal spasm (DES). computed tomography showed decreased striatal accumulation of 123I- ioflupane bilaterally. According to the Movement Disorder Society 2. Case presentation Criteria for multiple system atrophy , he fulfilled the criteria for “clinically probable MSA with predominant cerebellar ataxia”. Video- A 74-year-old man presented to our hospital because of recurrent endoscopic examination of swallowing showed reduced pharyngeal postprandial vomiting and syncope. At age 71 years, he had developed contraction and residual saliva in the pyriform fossa. Vocal cord Abbreviations: BP, blood pressure; DES, distal oesophageal spasm; HR, heart rate; MSA, multiple system atrophy; OH, orthostatic hypotension; UES, upper oesophageal sphincter. E-mail address: (T. Shimohata). 1 These authors contributed equally to this work. Received 20 September 2023; Received in revised form 28 February 2024; Accepted 10 April 2024 Availableonline13April2024 2405-6502/©2024PublishedbyElsevierB.V.ThisisanopenaccessarticleundertheCCBY-NC-NDlicense( Y. Ono et al. e N e u r o lo g i c a l S ci35(2024)100500 paralysis was not present on awakening. Videofluoroscopic examination of swallowing showed lower oesophageal stricture and barium stagna- tion within the oesophagus (Fig. 1). Oesophagogastroduodenoscopy showed normal mucosa and hypercontraction of the lower oesophagus (Fig. 2). High-resolution oesophageal manometry revealed elevated lower oesophageal pressure in synchronization with pharyngeal contraction (Fig. 3), with premature contractions in >20% of swallows. The median integrated relaxation pressure in the lower oesophageal sphincter was normal, suggesting that achalasia was unlikely . There was also a decrease in oesophageal peristalsis. Based on the Chicago classification version 4.0 , we classified his oesophageal dysmotility as DES. Given that pharmacotherapy with agents such as calcium channel blockers or nitrates might worsen OH, we chose to perform endoscopic oesophageal balloon dilation, after which the stuck feeling in his chest and vomiting improved. He developed heartburn due to gastroesophageal reflux disease, but his symptoms were alleviated by antacids. At follow-up, he had no symptoms suggestive of recurrent oesophageal stricture and did not require further endoscopic dilation. 3. Discussion We identified DES
