eNeurologicalSci35(2024)100500
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, msa, des, lower, atrophy, multiple, multiple atrophy, patients, esophageal, manometry, oesophagus, neurons, vomiting, normal, dysfunction


but his symptoms were alleviated by antacids. At follow-up, he had no symptoms suggestive of recurrent oesophageal stricture and did not require further endoscopic dilation. 3. Discussion We identified DES as an oesophageal dysfunction in a patient with Fig. 2. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy. MSA, using high-resolution oesophageal manometry. Previous studies of Esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed hypercontraction of the lower oesoph- MSA demonstrated oesophageal dysfunction, including incomplete agus, suggesting oesophageal spasm. Mucosal lesions were not detected. relaxation of the UES during swallowing3, abnormal UES resting pres- sure, abnormal deglutitive proximal oesophageal contraction , and oesophageal hypomotility . Although most studies have focused on upper oesophageal dysfunction, we identified DES by evaluating the entire oesophagus. Our findings suggest that oesophageal food stagna- tion in MSA can be induced by DES as well as by oesophageal hypo- function. Recognizing DES in MSA is important because, unlike oesophageal hypomotility, oesophageal dilation is required to treat food retention due to DES. This is a single case study and the relationship between MSA and DES cannot be determined. Therefore, similar cases should be sought to clarify the oesophageal characteristics of MSA. The mechanism of DES in MSA is not completely understood, but it can be attributed to the dysfunction of inhibitory neurons. Oesophageal Fig. 3. High-resolution oesophageal manometry. High-resolution oesophageal manometry in a patient with MSA (A) and in a healthy control (40-year-old man) (B). Red lines indicate 5 s. Each oesophageal pressure measurement was made when drinking 5 ml of water. The patient with MSA showed premature lower oesophageal contraction, occurring simulta- neously with pharyngeal contraction. The median integrated relaxation pres- sure was within the normal range (13.5 mmHg, normal range: <15 mmHg). These findings suggest DES. Oesophageal peristalsis was decreased, as reported previously . The distal contractile integral was normal (2331.2 mmHg⋅s⋅cm, normal range: 450–8000 mmHg⋅s⋅cm), which did not fulfil the criteria for jackhammer oesophagus characterized by repetitive prolonged contractions . Relaxation of the UES during pharyngeal contraction was maintained. The UES was relaxed during pharyngeal contraction in a healthy control subject. Oesophageal peristalsis occurred from the pharynx to the stomach. There was deglutitive relaxation of the lower oesophageal sphincter. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) muscles are innervated by excitatory cholinergic neurons and inhibitory nitrogenic neurons, which are located separately in the dorsal motor nucleus . Innervation by inhibitory neurons increases
