eNeurologicalSci35(2024)100500
KEYWORDS: oesophageal, msa, des, lower, atrophy, multiple, multiple atrophy, patients, esophageal, manometry, oesophagus, neurons, vomiting, normal, dysfunction


version of this article.) muscles are innervated by excitatory cholinergic neurons and inhibitory nitrogenic neurons, which are located separately in the dorsal motor nucleus . Innervation by inhibitory neurons increases distally along the oesophagus, leading to a gradual increase in the latency of peri- Fig. 1. Videofluoroscopic examination of swallowing. stalsis. DES is generally caused by a loss of function of these inhibitory Image showing lower oesophageal constriction and oesophageal barium stag- neurons, leading to synchronous oesophageal contractions . A nation due to DES. Y. Ono et al. e N e u r o lo g i c a l S ci35(2024)100500 previous study postulated a loss of excitatory cholinergic neurons as the Acknowledgments cause of oesophageal dysmotility in MSA . In contrast however, pathophysiology of DES in the present case. DES have also been reported c) for editing a draft of this manuscript. in Parkinson’s disease and acute autonomic failure , support- ing the involvement of autonomic dysfunction in DES in patients with References MSA. In conclusion, we report a patient with MSA who developed recur- H. Taniguchi, H. Nakayama, K. Hori, et al., Esophageal involvement in multiple system atrophy, Dysphagia 30 (2015) 669–673, rent postprandial vomiting due to DES. High-resolution oesophageal 015-9641-2. manometry, in addition to videoendoscopic examination of swallowing, I. Claus, J. Suttrup, P. Muhle, et al., Subtle esophageal motility alterations in may be useful in patients with MSA with recurrent vomiting or a stuck parkinsonian syndromes: synucleinopathies vs. tauopathies, Mov. Disord. Clin. Pract. 5 (2018) 406–412, feeling in the chest. Careful evaluation of oesophageal function can R. Higo, N. Tayama, T. Watanabe, T. Nitou, Y. Ugawa, Videofluoroscopic and prevent aspiration pneumonia and suffocation in patients with MSA. manometric evaluation of swallowing function in patients with multiple system atrophy, Ann. Otol. Rhinol. Laryngol. 112 (2003) 630–636, . Funding L. Norcliffe-Kaufmann, H. Kaufmann, J.A. Palma, et al., Autonomic Disorders Consortium. Orthostatic heart rate changes in patients with autonomic failure This research did not receive any specific grant from funding caused by neurodegenerative synucleinopathies, Ann. Neurol. 83 (2018) 522–531, agencies in the public, commercial, or non-for-profit sectors. G.K. Wenning, I. Stankovic, L. Vignatelli, et al., The movement disorder society criteria for the diagnosis of multiple system atrophy, Mov. Disord. 37 (2022) Informed consent 1131–1148, R. Yadlapati, P.J. Kahrilas, M.R. Fox, et al., Esophageal motility disorders on high- resolution manometry: Chicago classification version 4.0©, Neurogastroenterol. Informed consent was obtained from
