Case report
KEYWORDS: pyroglutamic, acidosis, hagma, flucloxacillin, case, paracetamol, acid, metabolic, patient, metabolic acidosis, pga, mmol, gap, anion, anion gap


Case report Flucloxacillin and paracetamol induced pyroglutamic acidosis Anis Zand Irani,1 Grace Borchert,2,3 Brendan Craven,1 Holly Gibbons1 2School of Medicine, Griffith on a background of recent treatment for Staphylococcus setting of reduced glutathione or reduced cysteine aureus bacteraemia secondary to pneumonia. The states and as an adverse drug reaction (eg, fluclox- Queensland, Australia acidosis (HAGMA). The pneumonia was initially treated acillin and paracetamol with HAGMA was first Sydney, New South Wales, with intravenous piperacillin and tazobactam and the noted in 1989 in a woman with haemolytic anaemia diagnosis of S. aureus bacteraemia secondary to a The causes of and contributors to HAGMA can Correspondence to pulmonary source was confirmed and treatment was be difficult to accurately identify in patients who Dr Brendan Craven; changed to intravenous flucloxacillin and the patient was have multiple comorbidities and especially in the brendanpcraven@ gmail. com discharged to hospital in the to complete the antibiotic course. Five weeks after glutamic acid levels. Patients with comorbidities commencing flucloxacillin, the patient was referred back may be prescribed paracetamol and penicillins with an associated significant HAGMA. The patient has a to recognise that acquired PGA is likely to be under- background of chronic kidney disease and chronic back reported and have significant sequelae in patients’ pain for which she was taking long- term paracetamol. clinical course.9 The HAGMA was determined to be due to a pyroglutamic Left unresolved, unmanaged metabolic acidosis acidosis (PGA), deemed secondary to the combined use can contribute significantly to mortality.2 The of paracetamol and flucloxacillin. This was subsequently consequences of chronic HAGMA in patients confirmed with a plasma pyroglutamic acid concentration with chronic kidney disease may include osteo- level of 7467 µmol/L (reference range 20–50 µmol/L) penia, increased muscle catabolism, secondary and a urinary level of 1700 mmol/mol creatinine hyperparathyroidism, reduced respiratory reserve (<110 mmol/mol creatinine). To our knowledge, this and increased severity of subsequent infections.10 is the highest plasma and urinary levels published to Therefore, it is important to manage and treat the date. Furthermore, considering the common use of underlying cause of HAGMA. There is limited liter- paracetamol and penicillins, it is important to recognise ature on the accumulation of pyroglutamic acid HAGMA as a potential complication of co-a dministration resulting in HAGMA, and we report this case to of paracetamol and iso-o xylopenicillin. The HAGMA alert clinicians of the need to consider PGA in the resolved after cessation of flucloxacillin despite
