Case report
KEYWORDS: pyroglutamic, acidosis, hagma, flucloxacillin, case, paracetamol, acid, metabolic, patient, metabolic acidosis, pga, mmol, gap, anion, anion gap


HAGMA, and we report this case to of paracetamol and iso-o xylopenicillin. The HAGMA alert clinicians of the need to consider PGA in the resolved after cessation of flucloxacillin despite the differential diagnosis of HAGMA. continuation of paracetamol and without administration of N- acetylcysteine. PGA- related HAGMA appears to be CASE PRESENTATION a unique potential side effect of iso- oxylopenicillin rather A 75- year-o ld female presented to the emergency than other beta-l actams. department with dyspnoea. She had been treated for recurrent lower respiratory tract infections by the general practitioner (GP) with oral antibiotics BACKGROUND (12 cases in the past 14 months). Her relevant A high anion gap metabolic acidosis (HAGMA) is medical history included chronic kidney disease a common acid–base derangement resulting from a stage 3 (baseline creatinine 80–110 µmol/L), poly- © BMJ Publishing Group variety of metabolic changes. The majority of causes myalgia rheumatica requiring long- term steroids, Limited 2021. Re- use are summarised by the acronym GOLD MARK asthma and chronic back pain. The pneumonia permitted under CC BY- NC. No (Glycols, oxoproline, Lactate, D- lactate, Methanol, diagnosis was confirmed by a chest radiograph and commercial re- use. See rights Aspirin, Renal failure and Ketoacidosis).1 CT showing multifocal nodular consolidation in the and permissions. Published by BMJ. A rarely identified cause of HAGMA is the accu- right lower lobe with cavitations and blood cultures mulation of pyroglutamic acid (5-o xoproline), were taken that grew Staphylococcus aureus. To cite: Zand Irani A, possibly due to being under-r ecognised and Her medical history otherwise included depres- Borchert G, Craven B, under- reported rather than reflecting a true rare sion, hypercholesterolaemia, gastro- oesophageal et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e237536. prevalence.2–6 Pyroglutamic acidosis (PGA) can reflux disease, spondylosis, glaucoma, hyperten- doi:- either be congenital or acquired.7 Congenital aeti- sion, lacunar stroke, transient ischaemic attack, 237536 ology involves inborn errors of metabolism that vitamin B deficiency and vascular dementia. Zand Irani A, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e237536. doi: 1 Case report Figure 1 γ-Glutamyl cycle. Her long- term treatment included hydromorphone, parac- catheter (PICC) on an 8 g/24 hours infuser that was monitored amine, colecalciferol, aspirin, duloxetine, pantoprazole, Four weeks into the HITH treatment, the patient developed prednisolone, docusate, macrogol, hydroxocobalamin, salbu- nausea and was investigated with blood results that showed tamol and denosumab. worsening renal function associated with HAGMA. She was bpm, respiratory rate of 25 breaths per minute
