Case report
KEYWORDS: pyroglutamic, acidosis, hagma, flucloxacillin, case, paracetamol, acid, metabolic, patient, metabolic acidosis, pga, mmol, gap, anion, anion gap


referred back to the regional hospital due to chest X-r ay was performed which showed consolidation in the deteriorating renal function found on blood tests performed for right lower lobe that was consistent with the clinical presenta- the investigation of nausea while under HITH (table 1). A repeat tion of pneumonia. Initially, the patient was treated with broad- chest CT scan showed a small focus of right lower lobe consoli- spectrum piperacillin–tazobactam following the collection of dation with small pulmonary cavitating nodules which is indica- relevant cultures. Sputum samples before transfer to tertiary tive of a potential secondary atypical infection. facility grew S. aureus sensitive to flucloxacillin, cefazolin, clin- The venous blood gas showed acidaemia (pH 7.26; pCO damycin and co-t rimoxazole. A urine sample showed Klebsi- 20 mm Hg; pO 37 mm Hg; bicarbonate 9 mmol/L) with under- ella pneumoniae sensitive to amoxicillin clavulanate, cefazolin, lying significant high anion gap metabolic acidosis. At this point, trimethoprim and gentamicin and resistant to ampicillin and PGA was suspected to be caused by flucloxacillin and parac- nitrofurantoin. Blood cultures grew S. aureus that was sensitive etamol. The patient was found to have a blood pyroglutamic to flucloxacillin and cefazolin while resistant to Penicillin G. It is acid concentration of 7467 µmol/L and urine concentration of worthy mentioning that S. aureus was grown on several sputum 1700 mmol/mol creatinine (<110 mmol/mol creatinine) a day cultures in the 8 months preceding admission coinciding with after flucloxacillin was discontinued. Figure 2 γ-Glutamyl cycle and the effect of long- term paracetamol and flucloxacillin in promoting pyroglutamic acidosis. Zand Irani A, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2021;14:e237536. doi: 3 Case report Prior to transfer to the tertiary facility, a chest X-r ay was 5- oxoprolinase, which decreases breakdown of pyroglutamic performed to investigate the reported chest pain, but there were acid. When glutathione levels are depleted, the negative feedback no significant findings. A ventilation and perfusion scan was on γ-glutamyl cysteine synthetase is diminished and production performed at the tertiary hospital and showed no evidence of a of pyroglutamic acid is favoured.16 Paracetamol contributes to pulmonary embolism. cysteine deficiency through direct conjugation and glutathione deficiency via its metabolite N-a cetyl benzoquinonemine that HAGMA resolved after cessation of flucloxacillin binds irreversibly to glutathione.18 Synthetic penicillins (iso- A pyroglutamic acid level was able to be taken at the tertiary oxylopenicillin) such as flucloxacillin and dicloxacillin inhibit facility and the
