Case report
KEYWORDS: pyroglutamic, acidosis, hagma, flucloxacillin, case, paracetamol, acid, metabolic, patient, metabolic acidosis, pga, mmol, gap, anion, anion gap


flucloxacillin binds irreversibly to glutathione.18 Synthetic penicillins (iso- A pyroglutamic acid level was able to be taken at the tertiary oxylopenicillin) such as flucloxacillin and dicloxacillin inhibit facility and the level came back at 7467 µmol/L (normal range is 5- oxoprolinase which prevents the degradation of pyroglutamic 20–50 µmol/L) and urinary level of 1700 mmol/mol creatinine acid to glutamate, thereby contributing to pyroglutamic acidosis (<110 mmol/mol creatinine). Cefazolin was adjusted for renal (refer to figure 2).19 20 impairment and paracetamol was continued while admitted at In this case, the patient’s blood pyroglutamic acid level was the tertiary facility although ideally this should have been ceased. 7467 µmol/L, which is significantly higher than previously The patient was then back- transferred to the regional hospital detailed in other case reports. The urine pyroglutamic acid was after her HAGMA had started to improve. It was decided to 1700 mmol/mol creat (<110 mmol/mol creat). Nevertheless, it change her antibiotics to oral amoxicillin–clavulanic acid as she is presently unknown as to how the degree of elevation of PGA was nearing the completion of her intended course for MSSA correlates to the symptoms or the degree of acidaemia. As such bacteraemia. Paracetamol was continued for pain management in this case, it was associated with moderate acidaemia. although ideally should have been ceased to help resolve the As with other organic acids, pyroglutamic acid is excreted in HAGMA. Her condition continued to improve and HAGMA the urine, leading to pyroglutamic aciduria.21 The patient had completely resolved before she was discharged suggested a new focal infection. sion of more common causes of HAGMA. Definitive diagnosis A follow- up chest X- ray showed no significant consolidation. is based on plasma or urine pyroglutamic acid levels. However, these specific tests are not performed widely which restricts its implementation into clinical practice.22 TREATMENT The treatment and management of PGA-r elated HAGMA The HAGMA was initially of an unknown cause, so the patient involves ceasing offending medications and commencing best was commenced on sodium bicarbonate 840 mg daily. The supportive care. There have been cases where flucloxacillin has venous blood gas showed acidaemia (pH 7.26; pCO 20 mm Hg; 2 been substituted for alternative beta-l actam penicillins, which pO 37 mm Hg; bicarbonate 9 mmol/L) indicating significant 2 would support that PGA- related HAGMA occurs secondary to high anion gap metabolic acidosis (table 1). Usual causes for AKI iso-o xylopenicillins and that
