Case report
KEYWORDS: pyroglutamic, acidosis, hagma, flucloxacillin, case, paracetamol, acid, metabolic, patient, metabolic acidosis, pga, mmol, gap, anion, anion gap


bicarbonate 9 mmol/L) indicating significant 2 would support that PGA- related HAGMA occurs secondary to high anion gap metabolic acidosis (table 1). Usual causes for AKI iso-o xylopenicillins and that other beta-l actams are safe to use and HAGMA were considered and excluded. Eventually, PGA in those instances.23–26 While flucloxacillin was ceased, in retro- was suspected to be caused by flucloxacillin and paracetamol spect, paracetamol should have also been ceased. Some reports with the risk factors being chronic kidney disease and advanced discuss the use of bicarbonate supplements to stabilise the pH, age. and NAC which has had some reported efficacy. However, the The flucloxacillin was ceased and the patient was instead evidence to support the use of NAC in HAGMA is limited and treated with amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. This was sufficient the potential risks associated with NAC administration remain to resolve the HAGMA without the cessation of paracetamol or unclear.27 28 The benefits of NAC are not well established with the institution of a NAC infusion (table 2). In retrospect, at the risks of NAC administrations.29 30 Ultimately, ceasing or substi- time, paracetamol could also have been ceased to help resolve tuting the offending medications as well as best supportive cares the HAGMA. seem to be sufficient in the treatment of PGA-r elated HAGMA. OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP The patient was discharged on amoxicillin and clavulanic acid Learning points and advised to complete an appropriate course. She was advised to undergo a repeat CT scan and was referred to the respiratory outpatient clinic. She was also advised to present to her GP for ► Paracetamol and iso- oxylopenicillins are commonly prescribed medications; therefore, it is important to be aware of adverse further investigations of macrocytic anaemia. For the ensuing effects of co-a dministration. months, as an outpatient her bicarbonate levels and kidney func- tion remained at baseline. ► Pyroglutamic acidosis (PGA) is a diagnosis of exclusion. attained with a blood or urine level of pyroglutamic acid. DISCUSSION ► Cessation of flucloxacillin was sufficient in resolving the Pyroglutamic acidosis is a rarely recognised cause of HAGMA. high anion gap metabolic acidosis (HAGMA) without an N- The incidence of PGA is not known although it is likely to be acetylcysteine infusion in this case. underdiagnosed considering the high prevalence of risk factors. ► In line with published literature, we recommend the cessation Those include advanced age, sepsis, malnutrition, uncontrolled of both
