Mitral valve
KEYWORDS: valve, mitral, mitral valve, left, ventricle, ventricular, heart, left ventricle, filling, blood, flow, papillary, systole, early, pressure


The inelastic chordae tendineae are attached at one end to the papillary muscles and the other to the valve cusps. Papillary muscles are finger like projections from the wall of the left ventricle. Chordae tendinae from each muscle are attached to both leaflets of the mitral valve. Thus when the ventricle contracts, the intraventricular pressure forces the valve to close, while the tendons prevent the valve from opening in the wrong direction. Normal physiology During left ventricular diastole, after the pressure drops in the left ventricle due to relaxation of the ventricular myocardium, the mitral valve opens, and blood travels from the left atrium to the left ventricle. About 70-80% of the blood that travels across the mitral valve occurs during the early filling phase of the left ventricle. This early filling phase is due to active relaxation of the ventricular myocardium, causing a pressure gradient that allows a rapid flow of blood from the left atrium, across the mitral valve. This early filling across the mitral valve is seen on doppler echocardiography of the mitral valve as the E wave. After the E wave, there is a period of slow filling of the ventricle. Left atrial contraction (left atrial systole) (during left ventricular diastole) causes added blood to flow across the mitral valve immediately before left ventricular systole. This late flow across the open mitral valve is seen on doppler echocardiography of the mitral valve as the A wave. The late filling of the LV contributes about 20% to the volume in the left ventricle prior to ventricular systole, and is known as the atrial kick. Surface anatomy The opening and closing of the mitral valve is difficult to hear directly, but the flow of blood to the left ventricle is most audible at the apex of the heart, and so auscultation is usually performed at the intersection of the fifth intercostal space and the midclavicular line. Additional images Section of the heart Front of thorax, showing the showing surface ventricular septum. relations of bones, (Bicuspid valve lungs (purple), pleura visible at center.) (blue), and heart (red outline). Heart valves are labeled with "B", "T", "A", and "P". Related Chapters • Anatomy of the heart • Heart • Heart valve • Papillary muscle • Pathophysiology • Mitral valve prolapse • Mitral regurgitation • Mitral stenosis • Procedures to fix the mitral valve • Mitral valve replacement • Mitral valve
