Pulmonary Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, murmur, heart, regurgitation, valve, pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, pulmonary valve, pulmonary regurgitation, usually, right, left, congenital, pulmonary artery, artery


Pulmonary (pulmonic) regurgitation (PR) is incomplete closure of the pulmonary valve causing backflow of blood from the pulmonary artery into the right ventricle during diastole. The most common cause is pulmonary hypertension. PR is usually asymptomatic. Signs include a decrescendo diastolic murmur. Diagnosis is by echocardiography. Usually, no specific treatment is necessary except for management of pulmonary hypertension. (See also Overview of Cardiac Valvular Disorders.) In adults, the most common cause by far of pulmonary regurgitation, also called pulmonic regurgitation or pulmonary insufficiency, is: Secondary pulmonary hypertension Less common causes are: Congenital heart disease Idiopathic pulmonary artery dilation Infective endocarditis Surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot or other congenital heart disease involving the pulmonary valve Rare causes are: Carcinoid syndrome Rheumatic fever Following intervention for valvular pulmonary stenosis (early or late) Congenital heart disease such as absent pulmonary valve syndrome and severe Ebstein anomaly Severe pulmonary regurgitation is rare and most often results from an isolated congenital defect involving dilation of the pulmonary artery and pulmonary valve annulus. PR may contribute to development of right ventricular (RV) dilatation and eventually RV dysfunction– induced heart failure (HF), but in most cases, pulmonary hypertension contributes to this complication much more significantly. Rarely, acute RV dysfunction–induced HF develops when endocarditis causes acute PR. Symptoms and Signs of Pulmonary Regurgitation Pulmonary regurgitation is usually asymptomatic. A few patients develop symptoms and signs of RV dysfunction–induced HF (eg, dyspnea, exercise intolerance, peripheral edema, hepatic congestion). Palpable signs are attributable to pulmonary hypertension and RV hypertrophy. They include a palpable pulmonic component (P2) of the second heart sound (S2) at the left upper sternal border and a sustained RV impulse that is increased in amplitude at the left middle and lower sternal border. Auscultation High-pitched, early diastolic decrescendo murmur On auscultation, the first heart sound (S1) is normal. The S2 may be split or single. When split, P2 may be loud and audible shortly after the aortic component of S2 (A2) because of pulmonary hypertension, or P2 may be delayed because of increased RV stroke volume. S2 may be single because of prompt pulmonary valve closing with a merged A2-P2 or, rarely, because of congenital absence of the pulmonary valve. An RV third heart sound (S3), fourth heart sound (S4), or both may be audible with RV dysfunction–induced HF or RV hypertrophy; these sounds can be distinguished from left ventricular heart sounds because they are located
