Pulmonary Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, murmur, heart, regurgitation, valve, pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, pulmonary valve, pulmonary regurgitation, usually, right, left, congenital, pulmonary artery, artery


fourth heart sound (S4), or both may be audible with RV dysfunction–induced HF or RV hypertrophy; these sounds can be distinguished from left ventricular heart sounds because they are located at the left parasternal fourth intercostal space and because they grow louder with inspiration. The murmur of PR due to pulmonary hypertension is a high-pitched, early diastolic decrescendo murmur that begins with P2 and ends before S1 and that radiates toward the mid-right sternal edge (Graham Steell murmur); it is heard best at the left upper sternal border with the diaphragm of the stethoscope while the patient holds the breath at end-expiration and sits upright. The murmur of PR without pulmonary hypertension is shorter, lower-pitched (rougher in quality), and begins after P2. Both murmurs may resemble the murmur of aortic regurgitation but can be distinguished by inspiration (which makes the PR murmur louder) and by Valsalva release. After Valsalva release, the PR murmur immediately becomes loud (because of immediate venous return to the right side of the heart), but the aortic regurgitation murmur requires 4 or 5 beats to do so. Also, a soft PR murmur may sometimes become even softer during inspiration because this murmur is usually best heard at the second left intercostal space, where inspiration pushes the stethoscope away from the heart. In some forms of congenital heart disease, the murmur of severe PR is quite short because the pressure gradient between the pulmonary artery and the right ventricle equalizes rapidly in diastole. Mixed pulmonary stenosis and insufficiency, as in the case of a deteriorating bioprosthetic valve or a right ventricle to pulmonary artery conduit, can be heard as a to-fro murmur in both systole and diastole. Diagnosis of Pulmonary Regurgitation Echocardiography Pulmonary regurgitation is usually incidentally detected during a physical examination or Doppler echocardiography performed for other reasons. Mild PR is a common echocardiographic finding that requires no intervention. Establishing the severity of pulmonary regurgitation by echocardiography can be challenging; criteria exist but are most useful when regurgitation is clearly severe (with diastolic flow reversal in the branch pulmonary arteries, a pressure half-time of 100 msec or less, and a wide color Doppler jet), or clearly mild (small color jet with minimal or no flow reversal in the main pulmonary artery). Cardiac MRI can be used to quantify the regurgitant fraction and more precisely grade the severity, along with quantifying the presence and degree of right
