Pulmonary Regurgitation
KEYWORDS: pulmonary, murmur, heart, regurgitation, valve, pulmonary hypertension, hypertension, pulmonary valve, pulmonary regurgitation, usually, right, left, congenital, pulmonary artery, artery


in the main pulmonary artery). Cardiac MRI can be used to quantify the regurgitant fraction and more precisely grade the severity, along with quantifying the presence and degree of right ventricle dilation (1, 2). An ECG and chest radiograph are usually also obtained. ECG may show signs of RV hypertrophy; chest radiograph may show RV enlargement and evidence of conditions underlying pulmonary hypertension. Treatment of Pulmonary Regurgitation Treatment of cause Sometimes pulmonary valve replacement (PVR) Treatment is management of the condition causing pulmonary regurgitation, particularly when pulmonary hypertension is the cause. Pulmonary valve replacement is an option if RV dilation or dysfunction develops, particularly if the patient has symptoms. Pulmonary valve replacement is the treatment of choice for patients with moderate or greater PR after intervention for pulmonary stenosis, who have right ventricle dilation and symptoms or progressive decrease in exercise capacity. Finally, pulmonary valve replacement is commonly performed in patients after initial tetralogy of Fallot repair, particularly when a transannular 3/4 patch is used (1). Surgical and transcatheter techniques are available for pulmonary valve replacement, depending upon patient characteristics and specific anatomic considerations. Key Points In adults, pulmonary regurgitation (PR) is usually caused by pulmonary hypertension. Hemodynamic consequences are usually due to the cause rather than PR itself. Heart sounds when PR is due to pulmonary hypertension include a high-pitched, early diastolic decrescendo murmur that begins with P2 and ends before S1 and that radiates toward the mid-right sternal edge; it is heard best at the left upper sternal border while the patient holds the breath at end-expiration and sits upright. The murmur of PR without pulmonary hypertension is shorter, lower-pitched, and begins after P2. Treatment is directed at the cause; valve replacement is usually not needed except in patients with congenital heart disease and prior pulmonary valve intervention.
