Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


ABSTRACT Adrenal insufficiency (AI) is an uncommon clinical condition resulting from inadequate glucocorticoid secretion or action, either in the basal state or during stress. Hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis disturbance or primary adrenal failure itself is responsible for this condition. The presentation of AI can range from asymptomatic hormonal dysfunction to an acute adrenal crisis. Prompt diagnosis and management are crucial since AI may be fatal if unrecognized or untreated. Among the various investigations, the appropriate tests should be performed in a timely manner in order to reverse hormonal and metabolic disturbances, treat associated conditions, and prevent acute crises. In this review, we will provide background knowledge regarding the pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, underlying etiologies, hormonal investigations, and related current and emerging treatments in AI. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL RECOGNITION Adrenal insufficiency (AI) is a life-threatening condition characterized by the failure of adrenocortical function. This failure results in impaired secretion of glucocorticoids (GCs) only, or of GCs and mineralocorticoids (MCs) and adrenal androgens, which are crucial for energy, salt and fluid homeostasis, and androgenic activity. The disorder may be caused by adrenocortical disease, primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI), known as Addison’s disease, which is a rare disease with a reported prevalence in Europe ranging from 39 cases/million in England in 1968 ( 1 ) to 221 cases/million in Iceland in 2016 ( 2 ), the highest prevalence reported. Depending on the study, the annual incidence of AI in Europe is estimated to range between 4.4 and 6.2 new cases per million people ( 3 , 4 ). AI may be secondary in the setting of conditions affecting the pituitary gland and the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (secondary AI) and/or the hypothalamus and the secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and/ or other ACTH secretagogues such as vasopressin (tertiary AI). Central AI is estimated to have a prevalence between 150 and 280 per million, making it more prevalent than PAI ( 5 - 7 ). The prevalence of AI after pituitary surgery varies, with higher rates of up to 90% after craniopharyngioma surgery, while hypopituitarism has a high prevalence after cranial radiation for non-pituitary tumors, but may take several years to develop. The clinical manifestations of AI depend upon the extent of loss of adrenal function, and whether MCs and androgen production are preserved, whereby the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is intact in
