Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


The clinical manifestations of AI depend upon the extent of loss of adrenal function, and whether MCs and androgen production are preserved, whereby the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is intact in central AI. The presentation can be acute or insidious, depending on the underlying cause of the adrenal failure. The diagnosis may be delayed until an intercurrent illness such as serious infection, acute stress, bilateral adrenal infarction or hemorrhage, precipitates a life-threatening adrenal crisis. The symptoms of PAI are pleiotropic and generally non-specific, except for salt craving with primary adrenal failure ( Table 1 ). Adrenal crisis is an acute deterioration in health which is associated with hypotension, acute abdominal symptoms and marked laboratory abnormalities, which will resolve after parenteral glucocorticoid administration if provided expeditiously. In PAI, the patients may have more severe symptoms which are due to concomitant MC deficiency. This condition is commonly presented in PAI, but less common in central AI, in which a typical example would be pituitary apoplexy. Retrospective and prospective analysis revealed the prevalence of adrenal crises 6.6-8.3 cases/100 patient-years, with a mortality 0.5/100 patient-years, and occurs mainly due to gastrointestinal or other infectious diseases ( 8 ).A recent retrospective case-control analysis of the European Adrenal Insufficiency Registry (EU-AIR) reported an incidence of adrenal crisis of 6.53 cases per 100 patient-years for PAI and 3.17 cases per 100 patient-years for central AI ( 9 ). A significant feature to clinically differentiate PAI from central AI is skin pigmentation, which is nearly always present in long-standing PAI. The most probable cause of the pigmentation seems to be the increased stimulation of the melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) by elevated levels of ACTH itself with its intrinsic α-melanocyte stimulating hormone activity. The rest of the clinical features of secondary and tertiary AI are similar to those of PAI ( Table 1 ). Rarely, the presentation may be more acute in patients with pituitary apoplexy. Hyponatremia and compensatory water retention may be the result of an “inappropriate” increase in vasopressin secretion. The clinical manifestations of a pituitary or hypothalamic tumor, such as symptoms and signs of deficiency of other anterior pituitary hormones, headache or visual field defects, may also be present. Another condition with a dissociation in GCs and MCs secretion presenting as AI is congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), with a frequency of adrenal crisis of 5.8 cases/100 patient-years (4.9 cases/100 patient-years after correction for a neonatal salt-wasting crisis) and
