Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


PAI: primary AI, SAI: secondary AI, T4: thyroxine; TAI: tertiary AI; TSH: thyrotropin stimulating hormone. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The majority of cases of PAI are the result of gradual destruction of all three layers of the adrenal cortex. Clinical manifestations of this condition appear when the loss of the adrenocortical tissue of the combined glands is greater than 90%. In the initial phase of chronic gradual destruction, adrenal reserve is decreased, and although the basal steroid secretion is normal, the secretion in response to stress is suboptimal, resulting in inadequate GCs, MCs and androgen production, leading to partial ΑΙ; this is manifested by an inadequate cortisol response during stress. Any major or even minor stressor can precipitate an acute adrenal crisis, followed by complete AI, since with further loss of adrenocortical tissue, even basal steroid secretion is decreased, leading to the clinical manifestations of the disease. Adrenal hemorrhage or infarction may lead to adrenal crisis, a medical emergency manifesting as hypotension and acute circulatory failure crisis due to MC deficiency when the appropriate doses of GCs are not met to cover MCs requirements. On the other hand, GC deficiency may also contribute to hypotension by decreasing vascular responsiveness to angiotensin II, norepinephrine/ noradrenaline, and other vasoconstrictive hormones, reducing the synthesis of renin substrate, and increasing the production and effects of prostacyclin and other vasodilatory hormones. Combined GC and MC deficiency leads to increased urinary sodium loss and hypovolemia resulting in hypotension and electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hyperkalemia. ‘Inappropriate’ anti-diuretic hormone (ADH) release and action on the renal tubule due to GCs deficiency contributes to the hyponatremia, although it could be argued that this attempt at volume maintenance is far from inappropriate. Low plasma cortisol concentrations reduce GC negative feedback, which in turn increases the production and secretion of ACTH and other POMC-peptides. These mechanisms are responsible for the well-recognized hyperpigmentation by acting on the MC1R in the skin. Conversely, ACTH deficiency in central AI leads to decreased secretion of cortisol and adrenal androgens, while MC production remains normal, as MCs are principally regulated by the RAAS. In the early stages, basal ACTH secretion is normal, while its stress-induced release is impaired. With further loss, there is atrophy of zonae fasciculata and reticularis of the adrenal cortex. Therefore, basal cortisol secretion is decreased but aldosterone secretion by the zona glomerulosa is preserved. However, hypotension in central AI may still occur due to
