Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


In a non-acute setting, the diagnosis should be suspected based on the patient’s history and physical examination along with low morning cortisol levels and confirmed by an ACTH stimulation test. Basal morning cortisol levels lower than 3μg/dL suggest ACTH deficiency. Conversely, morning cortisol higher than 15μg/dL indicates sufficient ACTH reserve. However, random cortisol levels are not advised for the diagnosis of AI. Additional tests are required to establish the diagnosis of AI if the cortisol levels are in the range of these cut-offs. Based on the pathophysiology, different dynamic tests have been proposed to diagnose this condition. The classic short Synacthen test (SST; 250μg of ACTH [1-24], i.m. or i.v.) is considered the standard diagnostic method to detect AI, with a sensitivity of 92% (95% confidence interval, 81–97%) for the diagnosis of AI ( 22 ). On the other hand, no statistically significant difference was found between low-dose and high-dose ACTH stimulation tests ( 23 , 24 ). Low levels for age and sex of dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS) concentration (or less frequently, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA) represents an additional marker to increase the level of suspicion of PAI but are not per se diagnostic. A CRH test may also be used, but is less common and has limited availability, while a prolonged ACTH stimulation test is rarely required other than to distinguish secondary or tertiary deficiency ( Table 4 ). The insulin-induced hypoglycemia or insulin tolerance test (ITT), also previously known as the gold standard test, is performed by injecting 0.1 or 0.15u/kg of short-acting insulin intravenously after overnight fast, followed by serial measurements of venous glucose and cortisol over 2hours. Importantly, this procedure must only be used if there are adequate supervision and experienced carers. However, the ITT is beneficial in assessing growth hormone (GH) response simultaneously in patients with suspected co-existing deficiency in secondary AI, in which GH may not exceed 3-5μg/dL. It should be emphasized that all normative values quoted are assay-dependent, and using immunoassays o liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) may result in a lower cut-off than the historic value of 18μg/dL derived from polyclonal antibody assay ( 25 ). Further investigations such as imaging studies, auto-antibodies, or microbiological screening should be arranged accordingly to identify the underlying cause of AI. Table 4. Diagnostic Tests Used to Diagnose and Differentiate AI View in own window Test/ procedure Interpretation of the result/ comments Cortisol physiologic response Adrenal
