Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


when cortisol levels fall to lower than 10μg/dL. Peak ACTH response >200ng/L 11-deoxycortisol level >7mg/dL Sum of cortisol and 11-deoxycortisol should exceed 16.5μg/dL ( 38 ). 17-OHCS, 17-hydroxycorticosteroids; ACTH, adrenocorticophic hormone; AI, adrenal insufficiency; CBG, cortisol-binding globulin; CRH, corticotrophin releasing hormone; HC, hydrocortisone; h-CRH, human CRH; GCs, glucocorticoids; GH, growth hormone; i.m., intramuscular; ITT, insulin tolerance test; i.v., intravenous; MCs, mineralocorticoids; PAI, primary AI; SST, short Synacthen test; ULN, upper limit of normal. The notion of Critical Illness-Related Corticosteroid Insufficiency (CIRCI) emerged to describe impairment of the HPA axis during critical illness that is characterized by the dysregulated systemic inflammation caused by the inadequate intracellular GC-mediated anti-inflammatory activity. The Society of Critical Care Medicine (SCCM) and European Society of Intensive Care Medicine (ESICM) have updated the guideline for the diagnosis and management of CIRCI, which was originally proposed in 2008 ( 39 ).The task force makes no recommendation as to whether to use delta cortisol after SST or random plasma cortisol levels of less than 10μg/dL to diagnose CIRCI. However, some cohort studies found that patients with CIRCI had poorer outcomes than patients without CIRCI when total cortisol levels are less than 10μg/dL or delta cortisol after SST <9μg/dL. This evidence may be helpful in deciding upon replacement treatment when CIRCI is suspected ( Table 5 ) ( 40 - 42 ). Other diagnostic tests, such as salivary cortisol or serum ACTH, are not recommended to diagnose this condition. Additionally, markers of inflammation and coagulation, morbidity, length of intensive care unit (ICU) stay and mortality, should be taken into consideration. Nevertheless, this whole concept has been questioned, especially since cortisol-binding globulin and albumin are invariably decreased in severe critical illness, implying that simple measurement of total cortisol is likely to be an inaccurate reflection of the true state of the HPA axis. However, the guideline cautions against using plasma free cortisol levels rather than plasma total cortisol levels to diagnose CIRCI. Most recent evidence suggests that CIRCI is not a useful diagnostic or therapeutic description, and that during the acute phase of the response to severe sepsis there is no failure of the HPA axis and no need for corticosteroid therapy, although in the recovery phase this may become important. Table 5. Tests Used in Adrenal Insufficiency in Critical Illness (but see text above) View in own window Test Indicators for poorer outcome Cortisol Random levels < 10μg/dL (275nmol/L) SST
