Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


Table 5. Tests Used in Adrenal Insufficiency in Critical Illness (but see text above) View in own window Test Indicators for poorer outcome Cortisol Random levels < 10μg/dL (275nmol/L) SST Delta peak/basal levels< 9μg/dL (250nmol/L) SST: short Synacthen test. Regarding patients with CAI resulting from steroid use, when confirming the recovery of the HPA axis is necessary, the 2024 European Society of Endocrinology and Endocrine Society Joint Clinical Guideline recommends using morning cortisol as the initial test. A cortisol level above 10μg/dL suggests HPA axis recovery ( 43 ). However, if the cortisol result remains indeterminate, more dynamic tests, such as SST, and less commonly, overnight metyrapone, and ITT, may be considered. The choice of these tests depends on their availability, feasibility, costs, and regional accessibility. On the other hand, routine testing for adrenal insufficiency is not advised in patients receiving supraphysiologic steroid doses or requiring steroid for treatment of their underlying condition. In the context of the different diseases associated with AI, additional investigations may be necessary ( Table 4 ). CT scanning of adrenals should be performed to identify infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, tumors, or adrenal hemorrhage. Table 6. Additional Studies Used in Patients with AI View in own window Primary AI Specific tests for autoimmune antibodies Autoantibodies against CYP21A2 for the vast majority of autoimmune PAI. Other antibodies against 17-hydroxylase and side-chain-cleavage enzyme are also identified. It should be noted that tests for autoantibodies are not standardized. Other autoimmune markers and hormonal assays for evidence of APS Autoantibodies against IFNα and IFNω for APS-1. Serum calcium and PTH for hypoparathyroidism. Autoantibodies for autoimmune thyroid disease and thyroid function test. Autoimmune for insulin, GAD65, ICA, and ZnT8 along with blood glucose for autoimmune diabetes. Antibody against parietal cells with or without intrinsic factor antibody for pernicious anemia. Antibodies to tissue transglutaminase and anti-endomysial IgA antibody for celiac disease. Liver function along with ANA, SMA, and anti-LKM1 antibodies for autoimmune hepatitis in those with abnormal liver biochemical tests. Microbial and serological tests Tuberculosis (tuberculin testing, early morning urine samples cultured for Mycobacterium tuberculosis ) Other infective cause. CT / MRI scan Calcified adrenals can be found in infection, hemorrhage, and malignancy. Large adrenals with or without calcification can be seen in metastatic deposits and early phase of infection. Small atrophic glands with calcified foci are commonly illustrated in chronic stages of infection. Adrenal hemorrhage shrinks and attenuates gradually
