Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


taking other synthetic GCs may be longer. In pregnancy, higher diagnostic cortisol cut-offs of 25μg/dL (700nmol/L), 29μg/dL (800nmol/L), and 32μg/dL (900nmol/L) should be considered for the first, second, and third trimesters, respectively ( 30 ). In pituitary diseases, testing of GCs reserve is suggested before and after initiation of GH replacement or upon documentation of an unexplained improvement in co-existing AVP-deficiency (diabetes insipidus, DI). THERAPY Acute Adrenal Insufficiency (Adrenal Crisis) Adrenal insufficiency is a potentially life-threatening medical emergency when presented as an adrenal crisis, which requires prompt treatment with HC and fluid replacement. When clinical suspicion exists, treatment should be initiated without any delay while awaiting definitive proof of diagnosis. Blood samples should be obtained for later cortisol concentration measurements, and the management approach should be similar to that of any critically ill patient ( Table 7 , 8 ). Table 7. Treatment of Acute Adrenal Insufficiency (Adrenal Crisis) - Management During Resuscitation of Critically Ill Patient View in own window Maintain airway and breathing. Correct hypovolemia and reverse electrolyte abnormalities; caution should be taken in correcting chronic hyponatremia (not more than 12mmol in 24h, preferably < 8mmol) to prevent central pontine myelinolysis. Replace glucocorticoid; clinical improvement especially blood pressure should be seen within 4-6h. The half-life of HC is 90min after i.v. injection, and more prolonged after i.m. administration; switch to oral HC 40mg in the morning and 20mg in the afternoon if oral intake is resumed; taper to a standard dose of 10-20mg on awakening and 5-10mg in the early afternoon if there is no other major illness. Some experts recommend dexamethasone while dynamic tests are awaited, as dexamethasone does not interfere with the assay, but HC is preferred for its MCs activity. Regarding the electrolyte imbalance, no need for fludrocortisone replacement in an acute crisis since the MC activity of HC and 0.9% NaCl infusion is sufficient. Establish i.v. access with two large bore cannulas. Collect venous blood samples for urea and electrolytes, glucose, full blood count, bicarbonate, infection screen, and store samples (plasma cortisol and ACTH measurement). Do not wait for blood results. Rapid infusion of 1L isotonic saline solution (0.9% NaCl) within the 1 st hour, followed by continuous i.v. isotonic saline solution guided by individual patient needs; usually infuse 2-3L of normal saline solution within 12 hours; after this, fluid management should be guided by volume status, urine output and biochemical results; 50g/L (5%)
