Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


individual patient needs; usually infuse 2-3L of normal saline solution within 12 hours; after this, fluid management should be guided by volume status, urine output and biochemical results; 50g/L (5%) dextrose in saline solution if there is evidence of hypoglycemia. Inject i.v.100mg of HC immediately (50-100mg/m 2 for children) and then followed by 200mg/day (50–100mg/m 2 /d for children divided q 6h) of HC (via continuous i.v. therapy or 6-8 hourly i.v. injection) for 24h, reduce to HC 100mg/day on the following day; i.m. administration should be used if venous access is not possible; prednisolone may be used as an alternative drug if unavailable HC; dexamethasone is the least preferred and should be given only if no other glucocorticoid is available. Use additional supportive measures as needed For hypoglycemia Dextrose 0.5-1g/kg of dextrose or 2-4 mL/kg of D25W should be infused slowly at rate of 2-3 mL/min; standard initial glucose dose is 25g. Cardiac monitoring. MCs replacement is not required if the HC dose exceeds 50 mg/day. ACTH, adrenocorticotrophic hormone; HC, hydrocortisone; i.m., intramuscular; i.v., intravenous; MCs, mineralocorticoid. Table 8. Treatment of Acute Adrenal Insufficiency (Adrenal Crisis) - After Patient Stabilization View in own window Continue i.v. 0.9% NaCl; rate may be slower and maintained for 24-48h. Search for and treat possible infectious precipitating causes of adrenal crisis; treat any associated condition(s). Perform SST to confirm the diagnosis. Differential diagnosis if needed. Taper parenteral glucocorticoids over 1-3 days, depending on precipitating illness. After the first 24 hours, HC dose can be reduced to 50mg q 6h and switched to oral HC 40mg in the morning and 20mg in the afternoon, then tapered to a standard dose of 10mg on awakening, 5mg at lunchtime and 5-10mg in the early afternoon. In aldosterone deficiency, begin MC replacement with fludrocortisone (100μg by mouth daily) when saline infusion ceased to prevent sodium loss, intravascular volume depletion and hyperkalemia. However, MCs replacement is not required if the HC dose exceeds 50mg/day. ACTH, adrenocorticotrophic hormone; HC, hydrocortisone; i.m., intramuscular; i.v., intravenous; MCs, mineralocorticoids; SST, short Synacthen test. Management of Chronic or Insidious Onset of Adrenal Insufficiency The aim of replacement treatment in AI is to mimic the normal cortisol secretion rate, which is around 5-8mg/m 2 /day ( 44 , 45 ). Previously, this rate was thought to be approximately 25-30mg/day of HC, but normal cortisol production rates seem to be about 8-15 mg/day. Most patients
