Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


/day ( 44 , 45 ). Previously, this rate was thought to be approximately 25-30mg/day of HC, but normal cortisol production rates seem to be about 8-15 mg/day. Most patients can cope with less than 30mg/day (usually 15-25 mg/day in divided doses). Doses are usually given upon waking with a smaller dose at lunchtime and then one in late afternoon. Weight-adjusted dosing may be associated with a better safety profile. Despite the various types of cortisol replacement regimens, no head–to-head comparison data is available to advocate one over the other. Decisions regarding the form and dose of GCs replacement therapy are based on crude endpoints such as weight, well-being, and blood pressure, as well as on local availability, cost and clinical need ( Table 9 ). Bone mineral density may be reduced on conventional doses of 30mg/day HC, highlighting the importance of aiming for effective but safe doses. Long-duration GCs can be administered once daily but may be associated with higher risk of side effects. Patients should be monitored for clinical symptoms. Table 9. Glucocorticoid Replacement Schemes View in own window Drug profile Commonly used doses Immediate-release HC (Hydrocortisone) Short acting, given in 2-3 divided doses; this biologically active GCs approximately mimics the endogenous diurnal rhythm; obese individuals may require more GCs replacement than lean individuals; higher frequency regimes and size-based dosing may be beneficial in individual cases; high doses in the evening may disturb sleep and alter metabolism. 15-25 mg or 5-8 mg/m 2 /day; the highest dose in the morning on awakening, the next in the early afternoon (2h after lunch) (2-dose regime) or at lunch and afternoon but not later than 4-6h before bedtime) (3-dose regime); usually 10mg upon awakening, 5mg at lunchtime and 5mg in the late afternoon. Dual-release HC (combination of immediate-release HC in the outer-layer coat and extended-release core, Plenadren® ) ( 46 , 47 ). Given once daily in the morning; resulting in higher morning and lower evening cortisol levels with no overnight cortisol rise. This may be advantageous in patients with high risk of metabolic comorbidities and in patients with poor administrative compliance. 20-30mg; lower dose may be sufficient in patients with some remaining endogenous cortisol production; identical total daily dose may be given when switching and clinical response needs to be monitored due to lower bioavailability than HC. Modified-release HC (delayed and sustained release in multiple microcrystals with polymer sheathing, Almodyt®)
