Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


be given when switching and clinical response needs to be monitored due to lower bioavailability than HC. Modified-release HC (delayed and sustained release in multiple microcrystals with polymer sheathing, Almodyt®) ( 48 ). Given twice daily as a “toothbrush regime”, with 2/3 of the total daily dose before bedtime (11p.m.) and 1/3 administered in the morning (7a.m.), resulting in overnight rise with morning peak of cortisol and near physiological cortisol levels throughout the day. This is beneficial for CAH patients since it prevents the ACTH-driven excess production of adrenal androgens. Usual dose of HC; then titrated based on symptoms and 17OHP along with androstenedione measurement. (Phase 3 study) Cortisone acetate ( 49 ). Short acting but longer than HC; the peak of serum cortisol level is delayed compared to HC since the oral form requires a conversion to cortisol at liver to become active; available in oral preparation only. 20-35mg in 2-3 divided doses. Prednisolone/ prednisone Long-acting, once-daily dose is sufficient; some may need additional 2.5mg in the evening; does not mimic diurnal rhythm of endogenous cortisol; better choice in patients with poor administrative compliance or in patients with poor quality of life on HC replacement; prednisone must be processed in liver to become prednisolone which is then able to cross the cellular membrane; cross-reaction occurs in most cortisol assays. 3-5mg once daily on waking. Dexamethasone Inter-individual variable metabolism makes it difficult to predict the adequate dose; dose needs to be titrated if patient is on hepatic enzyme inducing medications; it is not recommended in PAI because of risk of Cushingoid side effects; concurrent fludrocortisone replacement is necessary in PAI patients if dexamethasone is undeniable. 0.25-0.75mg once daily. MC replacement (Fludrocortisone) ( 50 ). Required only in PAI; doses may need to temporarily increase by 50-100% in hot weather or conditions that promote excessive sweating; available in oral preparation only; if parenteral action required, use DOCA if available. 50-200μg (median 100μg) once daily in the morning with starting dose at 50-100μg. Androgen replacement (DHEA) ( 51 , 52 ). A trial of replacement can be offered to PAI women with low energy, low mood, and low libido, despite otherwise optimized GCs and MCs replacement; some evidence of benefit; not generally available on prescription but obtained as a ‘health food’ supplement. 25–50mg as a single oral dose in the morning; replacement should be discontinued if no clinical benefit after initial 6-month
