Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


available on prescription but obtained as a ‘health food’ supplement. 25–50mg as a single oral dose in the morning; replacement should be discontinued if no clinical benefit after initial 6-month trial. AI, adrenal insufficiency; DHEA, dehydroepiandrosterone; DOCA, deoxycorticosterone acetate; GCs, glucocorticoids; i.m., intramuscular; i.v., intravenous; HC, hydrocortisone; MCs, mineralocorticoids; PAI, primary adrenal insufficiency. It should be noted that while HC and prednisolone are active GCs, cortisone acetate and prednisone require activation via hepatic 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 to become biologically active. Another novel aspect on the management of chronic AI is the development in glucocorticoid formulation. A dual-release HC preparation that can be administered once daily upon awakening, Plenadren ® (developed by Duocort, Viropharma, Shire Pharmaceuticals), which was approved for treatment of AI in adults since 2011 ( 53 ). Moreover, another delayed- and sustained-release preparation of HC, Efmody ®, given twice daily before bedtime and in the morning, is currently undergoing the approval process for treatment of CAH patients ( 54 ) ( Table 9 ). Another emerging therapy is continuous subcutaneous hydrocortisone infusion (CHSI), which has been proposed for selected groups of patients with CAH, particularly those with inadequate disease control or resistance to standard treatments ( 55 ). Advances in understanding of the normal cortisol circadian rhythm in the setting of endogenous clock genes, as well as its importance in controlling innate immunity, metabolism, and stress, may suggest that some of these GCs replacement formulas will be superior over the traditional ones in the future. One important aspect of the management of chronic PAI is patient and family education. Careful instructions should be given to up-titrate the daily dose in the event of intercurrent febrile illness, accident, or severe mental stress, such as an important examination ( Table 10 ). If the patient is vomiting and cannot take medication by mouth, parenteral HC must be given urgently. Ideally, patients should wear a ‘medical alert’ bracelet or necklace and carry the Emergency Medical Information Card, which should provide information on the patient’s diagnosis, prescribed medications and daily doses, and the physician involved in the patient’s care. Patients should also have supplies of HC for emergencies and should be educated about how and when to administer them by the subcutaneous route. Rectal suppositories of prednisolone 100 mg, enemas of prednisolone 20mg/100mL, or HC acetate enema10%, have also been used, but they are clearly ineffective when diarrhea is present. The
