Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


subcutaneous route. Rectal suppositories of prednisolone 100 mg, enemas of prednisolone 20mg/100mL, or HC acetate enema10%, have also been used, but they are clearly ineffective when diarrhea is present. The 2024 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guideline recommends providing two or three emergency management kits containing a single intramuscular/subcutaneous dose of hydrocortisone to all individuals with primary or secondary adrenal insufficiency, as well as those with tertiary adrenal insufficiency who have experienced an adrenal crisis ( 56 ). Table 10. Glucocorticoid Replacement Schemes During Illness View in own window Examples of commonly used schemes During minor illness Increase dose by 2-3 times of usual dosage for 3 days; do not change MC dose. HC 25-75 mg/day twice daily per oral, then taper rapidly to maintenance dose as patient recovers (usually 1-2 days); HC 50mg/m 2 /day i.m. or double/ triple HC replacement doses in children. During minor-to-moderate surgery HC 50-100mg/day twice daily per oral or i.v., then taper rapidly to maintenance dose as patient recovers. During major illness Increase dose up to 10 times of usual dosage with continuous infusion of HC, or equivalent dexamethasone dosage, then decrease dose by half per day, to usual maintenance dose. Half dose 2 nd postoperative day, maintenance dose 3 rd postoperative day. HC 100mg i.v., followed by continuous i.v. infusion of 200mg HC in 24h, then taper rapidly by half per day regarding course of illness; alternative administration of HC 50mg iv. or i.m. q 6h may be considered. Major surgery with general anesthesia HC 100mg i.v. just before induction of anesthesia, followed by continuous i.v. infusion of 200mg HC in 24h (alternatively 50mg every 6h i.v. or i.m.); then taper rapidly by half each day and switch to oral regime depending on clinical state; children: HC 50mg/m 2 i.v. followed by HC 50–100mg/m 2 /d divided q 6h. Weight-appropriate continuous i.v. fluids with 5% dextrose and 0.2 or 0.45% NaCl. Uncomplicated, outpatient dental procedures under local anesthesia and most radiologic studies No extra supplementation is required. Severe stress or trauma Inject prefilled dexamethasone (4-mg) syringe. Moderately stressful procedures (barium enema, endoscopy, or arteriography) Extra supplementation is required only before the procedure. 100mg i.v. dose of HC just before the procedure Pregnancy HC should be increased 5-10mg/day in the last trimester (20–40% from the 24 th week onward) to mimic physiologic increase in free cortisol; fludrocortisone dose adjustment may need
