Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


procedure Pregnancy HC should be increased 5-10mg/day in the last trimester (20–40% from the 24 th week onward) to mimic physiologic increase in free cortisol; fludrocortisone dose adjustment may need in response to serum sodium and potassium levels; HC is preferred over the other GCs, whereas dexamethasone is warned as a contraindication since it is not inactivated in the placenta and can transfer to the fetus. Last trimester: 5-10mg/day of HC usually (20–40% from the 24 th week onward) Laboratory: HC stress dosing with HC 100mg i.v. bolus, followed by continuous i.v. infusion of 200mg HC in 24h, and rapidly taper to pre-pregnancy doses after delivery. HC, hydrocortisone; i.m., intramuscularly; i.v., intravenously; GCs, glucocorticoids. Regarding MC replacement therapy, the dose of fludrocortisone is titrated individually based on clinical examination, mainly body weight and blood pressure, and the levels of plasma renin activity (PRA). In emergency situations, hydrocortisone is generally preferred for use in patients with AI because it has both GC and MC activity. Patients receiving prednisone or prednisolone, on the other hand, may require additional fludrocortisone due to their relatively low MC activity. Notably, dexamethasone should not be used to treat PAI patients because its lack of MCs activity ( 57 ). After resolution of an adrenal crisis, the adequacy of MC replacement should be assessed by measuring supine and erect blood pressure, electrolytes and PRA. Inadequate fludrocortisone dose may cause postural hypotension with elevated PRA, whereas excessive administration results in the opposite. Mineralocorticoid replacement therapy is frequently neglected in patients with adrenal failure. The dose may be temporarily increased in the summer along with an increase in salt intake, particularly if patients are exposed to temperatures above 30ºC (85ºF) or other conditions causing increased sweating. Newborns and children may also require higher fludrocortisone because MC sensitivity is lower. In chronic central AI, GCs replacement is similar to that in PAI; however, measurement of plasma ACTH concentrations cannot be used to titrate the optimal GCs dose. Replacement of other anterior pituitary deficits may be also necessary, while changing doses of growth hormone and thyroxine may affect the GCs requirements. More specifically, the HPA axis should be evaluated prior to and following the initiation of GH replacement therapy since GH inhibits the conversion of cortisone to cortisol. Consequently, patients receiving GCs replacement may require higher doses once GH treatment is introduced ( 18 , 58 ). For patients with either
