Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


inhibits the conversion of cortisone to cortisol. Consequently, patients receiving GCs replacement may require higher doses once GH treatment is introduced ( 18 , 58 ). For patients with either primary or central AI, beneficial effects of adrenal androgen replacement therapy with 25 to 50mg/day of DHEA have been reported. To date, the reported benefit is principally confined to female patients and includes improvement in sexual function and well-being, but the effects are variable. In children with PAI, HC in three or four divided doses with total starting daily dose of 8mg/m 2 body surface area are preferred over synthetic long-acting GCs, such as prednisolone or dexamethasone. In the case of documented aldosterone deficiency, fludrocortisone treatment with a typical dosage of 100μg/day without body surface area adjustment is suggested, while sodium chloride supplements are needed in the newborn period until the age of 12 months. Most experience has been gained from the treatment of children with CAH; however, since in this case under-treatment is confirmed by hyperandrogenism, higher GC therapy is usually given ( 22 ). Other therapies have been studied such as rituximab with or without depot tetracosactide in newly diagnosed autoimmune PAI patients ( 59 ). The regenerative potential of adrenocortical stem cells combined with immunomodulatory treatment to stop the autoimmune destruction, adrenal transplantation, or gene therapy in forms of monogenic PAI, may be a useful option in the future. For CIRCI with septic shock, it has been suggested to use i.v. HC < 400mg/day for at least 3 days at full dose (rather than high-dose and short-course regimes) when they are not responsive to fluid and moderate- to high-dose vasopressor therapy (> 0.1μg/kg/min of noradrenaline or equivalent) ( 39 ).In hospitalized adults with community-acquired pneumonia, a daily dose of < 400mg i.v. HC or equivalent has been suggested. GCs are also suggested in patients suffering from meningitis, cardiac arrest (methylprednisolone given during resuscitation or HC given for post-resuscitation shock), and cardiopulmonary bypass surgery (CPB) (250mg i.v. of methylprednisolone at anesthesia induction and at onset of CPB) or dexamethasone (1mg/kg perioperatively). Corticosteroids are not suggested for patients after major trauma or suffering from influenza. Nevertheless, it should be emphasized that this is a rapidly changing situation, and the use of corticosteroids in the ICU with severely ill patients remains controversial. Despite concerns that patients with AI were more vulnerable to infection during the recent COVID-19 pandemic, adequately treated
