Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


use of corticosteroids in the ICU with severely ill patients remains controversial. Despite concerns that patients with AI were more vulnerable to infection during the recent COVID-19 pandemic, adequately treated and well-trained AI patients demonstrated the same incidence of COVID-19-suggestive symptoms and disease severity as the people without AI. FOLLOW-UP Patients with chronic AI should be closely followed-up by an endocrinologist or a healthcare provider with endocrine expertise at least annually (for infants, every 3 to 4 months) to ensure the adequacy of their GCs and/or MC replacement dose ( Table 11 , 12 ), to reduce the risk of adrenal crisis, to provide necessary education to patients, and to confirm that they have a prompt updated emergency pack with HC to treat an emergency. Clinical symptoms including body weight, postural blood pressure and energy levels should be monitored in order to avoid signs of frank GCs excess and adjust accordingly the dose of steroids. The ‘mapping’ of the dose has been suggested to assess the compliance and help decide when tablets should be taken in problematic cases of reduced quality of life where the detailed questioning for daily habits, working patterns, general feelings of energy, mental concentration, daytime somnolence, and energy dips. Hormonal monitoring of GCs replacement, such a serum or salivary cortisol ‘day-curves’ is not routinely recommended, but can be useful in specific situations where the clinical response cannot be reliably used to adjust treatment or when malabsorption is suspected ( 60 , 61 ). In addition, the use of ACTH levels to assess GCs replacement is not suggested since it leads to over-replacement. Similarly, MC replacement should be monitored based on clinical assessment, which includes postural hypotension as measured by lying and standing blood pressure and pulse, symptoms of salt craving, oedema, blood electrolyte measurements. Reported well-being, normal blood pressure without orthostatic hypotension and electrolytes within the normal range, indicate adequate replacement. PRA in the upper reference range has been found to be a useful predictor for a correct MCs dose by some, but not all ( 62 , 63 ). Liquorice and grapefruit juice enhance the MC effect of HC and should be avoided. Phenytoin potentiates hepatic clearance of GCs and increases fludrocortisone metabolism; therefore, higher doses are needed when it is co-administered. It is of note that in patients who develop hypertension while receiving fludrocortisone, the dose of fludrocortisone should be reduced, and HC replacement
