Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


doses are needed when it is co-administered. It is of note that in patients who develop hypertension while receiving fludrocortisone, the dose of fludrocortisone should be reduced, and HC replacement should be adjusted. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled, anti-hypertensive treatment should be initiated without fludrocortisone discontinuation. First-line anti-hypertensive drugs to be selected are the angiotensin II receptor blockers or angiotensin-converting enzyme blockers to counterbalance the vasoconstrictive effects of elevated angiotensin II, second line a dihydropyridine calcium blocker, while diuretics should be avoided and aldosterone receptor blockers are contraindicated. Since AI might mask the presence of partial AVP deficiency, urine output should be monitored after starting GCs replacement, or conversely, when DI has unreasonably improved, patients must be tested for HPA reserve. With DHEA replacement, morning serum DHEAS levels should be measured before the intake of the daily dose aiming at the mid-normal range. An annual screening for autoimmune diseases, which includes autoimmune thyroid disease, type 1 diabetes, premature ovarian failure, coeliac disease, and autoimmune gastritis should be performed in PAI patients without any other obvious cause of adrenal failure. Special populations, like pregnant females, should be surveyed for clinical symptoms and signs of GC over- and under-replacement including weight gain, fatigue, postural hypotension or hypertension, hyperglycemia, with at least once per trimester. Only sodium and potassium can be reliably monitored in blood and urine for the adequacy of replacement. In contrast, PRA monitoring is not advised since plasma renin physiologically increases during this time. In children, monitoring of GC replacement includes clinical assessment such as growth velocity, body weight, blood pressure, and energy levels ( 64 ). Although familial autoimmune PAI is less frequent, genetic counselling is suggested in situations due to monogenic disorders. Table 11. Assessment of Glucocorticoid Replacement View in own window Under replacement Lethargy, tiredness, nausea, poor appetite, weight loss, hyperpigmentation. Low serum cortisol level on cortisol day curve (useful in specific cases for HC or cortisone replacement only) Over replacement Cushingoid appearance, weight gain, insomnia, peripheral oedema, low bone mineral density. High 24-h UFC, high serum cortisol on hydrocortisone day curve (useful in specific cases for HC or cortisone replacement only) Table 12. Assessment of Mineralocorticoid Replacement View in own window Inadequate replacement Postural hypotension, light-headedness High PRA (plasma renin activity, should be at the upper limit of normal) Over replacement Hypertension, peripheral edema, hypernatremia, hypokalemia Patient Education This is very crucial in the management of
