Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


High PRA (plasma renin activity, should be at the upper limit of normal) Over replacement Hypertension, peripheral edema, hypernatremia, hypokalemia Patient Education This is very crucial in the management of AI and for the prevention of adrenal crisis. All patients and their relatives should be educated about their condition and the emergency measures they should take at home to avoid crises, particularly concerning GCs adjustments in stressful events and preventive strategies including parenteral self- or lay-administration of emergency GCs particularly in situations of intercurrent illness, fever, or any type of stress. This information should be reinforced during annual follow-up visits by clinicians and if possible, through a structured patient education program. All patients should be given a steroid emergency card and medical-alert identification to inform health personnel of the need for increased GCs doses to avert or immediately treat adrenal crisis. Every patient should be equipped with a GCs injection kit for emergency use and be educated on how to use it ( Table 13 ). Table 13: Information and Equipment for Patients with AI View in own window Steroid Sick Day Rules Sick day rule 1 : Patients should be advised to increase the oral GCs when the patient experiences fever or illness requiring bed rest, or when requiring antibiotics for an infection. For instance, the total oral GCs dose should be doubled (>38°C) or tripled (>39°C) for at least 72 hours; if the patient remains unwell after 72 hours, they should contact their caring physician. There is no need to increase the MCs dose. Sick day rule 2 : There should always be a supply of additional oral GCs on prescription for sick days and HC emergency injection kit prescription. Sick day rule 3 : Every patient should carry a medical alert bracelet or leaflet with information stating their conditions, treatment, physician, emergency phone number of endocrine specialist team, and proposed GCs regimen during adrenal crisis. Sick day rule 4 : Parenteral injection of a GC preparation, either i.m. or s.c., should be provided in case of severe illness, trauma, persistent vomiting, before moderately stressful procedure (i.e., barium enema endoscopy, arteriography), or before surgical intervention. Steroid Emergency Pack Every patient should be provided with two kits. Children may require three packs being kept both at home and school, plus any other place where they are likely to stay. The pack contains a vial of 100mg HC, syringes, needles,
