Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


require three packs being kept both at home and school, plus any other place where they are likely to stay. The pack contains a vial of 100mg HC, syringes, needles, also oral HC or prednisolone suppositories. The patient and/ or any responsible family member should be educated to administer this medication i.m. or s.c. during an emergency situation including severe accident, significant hemorrhage, fracture, unconsciousness, diarrhea and vomiting, and they should call the emergency medical personal immediately (adults, i.m. or s.c. HC 100mg; children, i.m. HC 50mg/m 2 ; infants, 25mg; school-age children, 50mg; adolescents, 100mg). The expiry date on the pack should be checked regularly and replaced with a new pack if expired. The patient should be advised to take the pack when travelling. Medical-Alert bracelet or pendant and emergency steroid card Every patient should wear or carry these in which the diagnosis, drug, dosage, duration and prescriber should be clearly documented, as well as guidance on minimizing the risks when taking steroid. Follow up A regular visit in order to reinforce education and confirm understanding should be scheduled at least annually in a patient without specific problems or recent crises. Other circumstances, such as monitoring during infancy, may necessitate more frequent visits. GCs, glucocorticoids; HC, hydrocortisone; i.m., intramuscularly; i.v., intravenously; HC, hydrocortisone; MCs, mineralocorticoids; s.c., subcutaneously. PROGNOSIS The mortality of patients with PAI was increased in some studies and adrenal crisis was a significant cause of death, emphasizing the importance of educating patients with AI to prevent crises. Recent large cohorts confirmed the increased mortality of patients with ΑΙ, especially PAI. Although cardiovascular disease (CVD) was the leading cause of death, infectious diseases were found to pose the greatest risk in comparison to controls. Adrenal crisis was also found to be a common contributor, particularly in those with co-existing CVD. In addition, despite an adequate replacement dose, the quality of life of PAI patients remains impaired. This appears to be related to the delay in diagnosis. UNMET NEEDS A number of unmet needs have been addressed in the context of AI. Firstly, there is a low compliance in the patients treated with multiple doses of conventional GC replacement therapy despite the low cost of treatment. Secondly, there is difficulty achieving the peak of normal GC secretion resulting in difficulty of the morning arousal. Thirdly, there is failure to mimic the endogenous cortisol circadian and ultradian rhythm (biorhythm). Finally,
