Adrenal Insufficiency
KEYWORDS: adrenal, cortisol, patients, pubmed, dose, replacement, pai, acth, levels, insufficiency, gcs, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, deficiency, day


difficulty achieving the peak of normal GC secretion resulting in difficulty of the morning arousal. Thirdly, there is failure to mimic the endogenous cortisol circadian and ultradian rhythm (biorhythm). Finally, the current conventional treatment does not allow an automatic adaption to stress. In addition, there is a low quality of life, and increased morbidity post-GC replacement therapy along with an increased risk for an Addisonian crisis. EMERGING THERAPIES As mentioned above, Plenadren ®, the once daily modified-release ΗC may allow a better compliance by avoiding a multiple-dose treatment with the technology of an immediate release coating and extended-release core. Efmody ® is a multiparticulate formulation of HC with a delayed-release coating can be given by a 2/3 dose during evening and 1/3 dose the morning in order to correct the peak of the morning arousal, has been studied in CAH compared to conventional HC therapy ( 65 , 54 ). In a recent study, in a population with AI, Efmody was studied versus Plenadren treatment, demonstrating a clinical benefit in quality of life to the formed over the latter ( 66 ). An older but effective therapy with prednisolone offering a longer half-time with a higher affinity for GC receptor has been reviewed and run in a current trial, whereas it has been compared to Plenadren . These therapies reduce the number of GC doses, have an impact on the peak of morning cortisol and reduce ACTH levels. However, they have not been shown to change the treatment of adrenal crises. GC rhythmicity has been targeted by CHSI, which was shown more useful and justified in cases of severe symptoms and a necessity of increased GCs doses to be reduced, since in these cases it was more acceptable an alternative from the patients but could also be justified in the context of the costs ( 55 , 67 ). In order to replace as close as possible the adrenal gland and particularly treat the adrenal crisis, the role of adrenal plasticity and adrenocortical progenitor or stem cells (ACSCs) has been explored. On the one hand, bilateral subcapsular enucleation of the adrenals in rodent models leads to the regeneration of adrenocortical mass within 4–6 weeks with steroidogenic function seen from day-8 to 6 weeks after enucleation or an overt steroidogenic function when the adrenal cortical tissue with capsule attached was autotransplanted to a flank muscle pocket in a rodent model undergoing
