Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


Deposits of dense material representing IgG are found along the basement membrane on electron microscopy (Fig. 8-2). Figure 2. Electron microscopy image of thyroid tissue from a patient with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, showing electron dense deposits of IgG and TG along the basement membrane of follicular cells. Within the follicles may be seen clusters of macrophage-like cells. The lymphoid infiltration in the interstitial tissue is accompanied by actual follicles and germinal centers (Fig. 8-3, below). Plasma cells are prominent. Totterman has studied the characteristics of the lymphocytes in the thyroid and reports that they are made up of equal proportions of T and B cells.(7) Most infiltrating T cells have alpha/beta T cell receptors. Gamma/delta T cells are rare(8), although their proportion in intrathyroidal lymphocytes is higher than that in peripheral lymphocytes(9). CD4+CD8+ cells and CD3lo-TCRalpha/beta-lo/CD4-CD8- cells also are present in the infiltrate in the thyroid(9). Infiltrating T cells are considered to be a highly restricted population, based on the study of T cell receptor V alpha(10) and beta(11) gene expression. Heuer et al. studied cytokine mRNA expression in intrathyroidal T cells and found increased expression of IFN-gamma, IL-2 and CD25, which are Th1-related cytokines(12) in Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Thyroglobulin-binding lymphocytes were increased in percentage relative to their occurrence in blood. Figure 3. Pathology of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. In this typical view of severe Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the normal thyroid follicles are small and greatly reduced in number, and with the hematoxylin and eosin stain are seen to be eosinophilic. There is marked fibrosis. The dominant feature is a profuse mononuclear lymphocytic infiltrate and lymphoid germinal center formation. The quantity of parenchymal tissue left in the thyroid is variable. In some instances it is actually increased, perhaps as a compensatory hyperplastic response to inefficient iodide metabolism. Typically, the pathologic process involves the entire lobe or gland. Focal thyroiditis, which is microscopically similar, may be found in thyroid glands with diffuse hyperplasia of Graves' disease, in association with thyroid tumors, or in multinodular thyroid glands. The thymus, which is frequently enlarged in thyroiditis as it is in Graves' disease, does not present the picture of enhanced immunologic activity(13),(14). Histologic feature in painless (or silent) thyroiditis is almost similar to that of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. All specimens show chronic thyroiditis, focal or diffuse type: and lymphoid follicles were present in about half of the specimen(15). The follicular distruptions are characteristic and common histologic feature at the time
