Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


show chronic thyroiditis, focal or diffuse type: and lymphoid follicles were present in about half of the specimen(15). The follicular distruptions are characteristic and common histologic feature at the time of destructive thyrotoxicois but disappear during the late recovery phase of disease. Thus painless thyroiditis may be induced by the activation of autoimmune reaction within the thyroid gland in patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. PATHOGENESIS The putative causes of autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) are reviewed in Chapter 7, and the basic concepts reviewed there apply of course to Hashimoto's thyroiditis. In Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the immunologic attack appears to be typically aggressive and destructive, rather than stimulatory, as in Graves' disease, and the difference is most likely due to the characteristics of the immune response. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is reported to occur in two varieties, an atrophic variety, perhaps associated with HLA-DR3 gene inheritance, and a goitrous form associated with HLA-DR5. The large UK Caucasian HT case control cohort study demonstrated clear differences in association within the HLA class II region between Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease, differences in HLA class II genotype may, in part, contribute to the different immunopathological processes and clinical presentation of these related diseases (15a). In studies of autoimmune hypothyroidism in monozygotic twins, the concordance rate is below 1 and thus environmental factors are also etiologically important.(16) Concerning susceptibility genes for Hashimoto's thyroiditis, non-MHC class II genes have been recently investigated. A number of data accumulated, demonstrating an association between cytotoxic T cell antigen-4 (CTLA-4), which is a major negative regulator of T-cell mediated immune functions, and autoimmune diseases including Hashimoto's thyroiditis. New studies have appeared on the zinc-finger gene in AITD susceptibility region gene (ZFAT), the thyroglobulin gene, and the protein tyrosine phosphatase-22 (PTPN22) gene. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) detected other genes including FCRL3, FOXE1 and IL2RA. (16a) Many of the genes associated with AITD are also associated with other autoimmune diseases, which highlights a key role for disrupted T cell central tolerance, antigen monitoring and peripheral immune tolerance in autoimmune onset. Association of polymorphisms in miroRNA genes (miR499A and miR125A) with autoimmune thyroid diseases were reported (16b). Regarding environmental factors, high iodine intake, selenium deficiency, pollutants such as tobacco smoke, infectious diseases such as chronic hepatitis C, and certain drugs are implicated in the development of autoimmune thyroiditis (16.1: Duntas LH. Environmental factors and autoimmune thyroiditis. Nat Clin Pract Endocrinol Metab. 2008 Jul 8. [Epub ahead
