Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


corresponding to predominant molecules of the thyroid colloid. Most interestingly, eight of the peptides were derived from a major autoantigen, thyroglobulin. In vitro binding identified HLA-DR3 as the allele to which one of these peptides likely associates in vivo. Computer modeling and bioinformatics analysis suggested other HLA-DR alleles for binding of other thyroglobulin peptides. Increased K and NK cell function has been reported in Hashimoto's thyroiditis (19). Dysfunction of regulatory (or suppressor) CD4+ T cell populations may lead to the development of various organ-specific autoimmune diseases including Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (19.1). Despite the lack of understanding of the primary cause(s), it is certain that thyroid autoimmunity drives the lymphocyte collection in the thyroid and is responsible for thyroid epithelial cell damage. Progressive thyroid cell damage can change the apparent clinical picture from goitrous hypothyroidism to that of primary hypothyroidism, or "atrophic" thyroiditis. Primary hypothyroidism is considered to be the end stage of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. In the TSHR-immunized murine model of Graves’ disease, Treg depletion (particularly CD25) induced thyroid lymphocytic infiltrates with transient or permanent hypothyroidism (19.2). Lymphocytic infiltration was associated with intermolecular spreading of the TSHR antibody response to other self thyroid antigens, murine thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin. These data suggest a role for Treg in the natural progression of hyperthyroid Graves' disease to Hashimoto's thyroiditis and hypothyroidism in humans. An alternative cause of "atrophic" hypothyroidism is the development of thyroid stimulation blocking antibodies (TSBAb), which, as the name implies, prevent TSH binding to TSH-R, but do not stimulate thyroid cells and produce hypothyroidism. It has been proposed that TSBAb bind to epitopes near the carboxyl end of the TSH-R extracellular domain, in contrast to thyroid stimulating antibodies (TSAb), which bind to epitopes near aa 40 at the amino terminus(20). This syndrome occurs in neonates, children and adults. The prevalence of TSBAb in adult hypothyroid patients has been reported to be 10%(21). However, in contrast to the usual progressive and irreversible thyroid damage occurring in the usual setting, these blocking antibodies tend to follow the course of TSAb--that is, they decrease or disappear over time, and the patient may become euthyroid again(22). A change from a predominant TSAb response to a predominant TSBAb response can cause patients to have sequential episodes of hyper- and hypothyroid function(23). HLA antigens of hypothyroid patients with TSBAb were found to be different from patients with idiopathic myxedema or Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and rather similar to patients
