Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


of hyper- and hypothyroid function(23). HLA antigens of hypothyroid patients with TSBAb were found to be different from patients with idiopathic myxedema or Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and rather similar to patients with Graves' disease(24). In patients with autoimmune hypothyroidism, thyroid dysfunction might be induced by cytokine-mediated apoptosis of thyroid epithelial cells and infiltrating T lymphocytes may not directly be involved in thyrocyte cell death during Hashimoto' s thyroiditis. Fragmented DNA, a characteristic feature of apoptosis, was frequently found in the thyroid follicular cells in Hashimoto's thyroiditis(25). The ligand for Fas(Fas L)was shown to be constitutively expressed on thyrocytes and lL-1alpha, abundantly produced in the thyroid gland of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, induced Fas expression on thyrocytes. Thus Fas-FasL interaction on thyrocytes may induce apoptosis and thyroid cell destruction(26). In the thyroid follicle cells of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Fas and FasL are strongly stained and immunostaining of Bcl-2 is weak, suggesting that cytokines cause up-regulation of apoptosis(27). Increased serum TSH may inhibit Fas-mediated apoptosis of thyrocytes(28). In contrast TSBAb block the inhibitory action of TSH toward Fas-mediated apoptosis and thus induce thyroid atrophy. On the other hand, transgenic expression of Fas L on thyroid follicular cells actually prevents autoimmune thyroiditis, possibly through inhibition of lymphocyte infiltation(29). Other death-receptor ligands might participate in and TNF-related apoptosis-includingathyrocyte killing, including TNF- ligand(TRAIL)(30) . In relation to the Fas-Fas L system, Dong et al. reported that mutations of Fas, which induce loss of function, were found in thyroid lymphocytes in 38.1% of patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis(31). These mutations are found in 65.4% of patients with malignant lymphoma(32), which usually develops from Hashimoto's thyroiditis. These changes are possibly important for progression of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Apparent de-novo development of antibodies, augmentation of pre-existing thyroid autoimmunity, goiter, and hypothyroidism, are induced in some cancer patients, when given courses of IL2, IL2a plus lymphokine activated K cells and/or IFN-gamma. It is thought that the phenomenon may reflect activation of lymphocytes by the lymphokine and lymphokine and cell-mediated attack on thyroid tissue(33). Activated lymphocytes release TNFalpha and IFNgamma, which can injure or suppress TEC function. IFNgamma may also augment thyrocyte HLA-DR expression, which could make the thyrocyte able to present self-antigens. Interferon alpha therapy for chronic active type C hepatitis also augments pre-existing thyroid autoimmunity and can induce autoimmune hypothyroidism. A humanised anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody, Campath-1H may permit the generation of antibody-mediated thyroid autoimmunity (33a,b). Campath-1H depletes lymphocytes and monocytes, and may cause the
