Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


for TPO (microsomal antigen) Ab measured by hemagglutination assay (MCHA), and about 15.0% had goiter. Men had 10 to 4-fold lower incidence of thyroid abnormalities. In a study of children whose parents had history of thyroid disease, Carey et al.(39) found a 24% prevalence of thyroid "abnormalities", including a prevalence of 6.9% abnormal thyroids, and 9.3% with positive TG Ab measured by hemagglutination assay (TGHA) and 7.8% positive MCHA assays. Gordin et al.(35) found that 8% of adult Finns had positive TGHA results, and 26% had positive MCHA results. TSH levels were elevated in 30% of these persons. On the basis of positive antibody titers and elevated TSH levels, 2 - 5% were believed to have asymptomatic thyroiditis. These test results correlate with focal collection of lymphocytes on histologic examination of the thyroid glands(40), are frequently associated with elevated levels of TSH(41), and probably represent one end of a spectrum of thyroid damage. Women with both positive antibody test results and raised TSH levels become hypothyroid at the rate of 5%/year(42). A reasonable approximation of the prevalence of positive antibody tests in women is greater than 10%, and of clinical disease is at least 2%. Men have one-tenth this prevalence. A number of small datasets have suggested a potential role for skewed X chromosome activation (XCI), away from the expected 50:50 parent of origin ratio, as an explanation for the strong female preponderance seen in the common autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITD), Graves’ disease (GD) and Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (HT). (42a) A possible role for fetal cell microchimerism in triggering an autoimmune process has been repeatedly proposed, based on the evidence that autoimmune diseases have a higher prevalence in females, with peak incidence in women of childbearing age. Fetal microchimeric cells have been found to be significantly more represented within the thyroid gland of women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease compared to those without thyroid autoimmunity, suggesting a pathogenic role. (42b, c, d) COURSE OF THE DISEASE (Table 8-1) Hashimoto's thyroiditis begins as a gradual enlargement of the thyroid gland and gradual development of hypothyroidism. It is often discovered by the patient, who finds a fullness of the neck or a new lump while self-examining because of a vague discomfort in the neck. Perhaps most often, it is found by the physician during the course of an examination for some other complaint. Table 1. Presentations of Hashimoto's Thyroiditis 1. Euthyroidism and
