Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


the neck. Perhaps most often, it is found by the physician during the course of an examination for some other complaint. Table 1. Presentations of Hashimoto's Thyroiditis 1. Euthyroidism and goiter 2. Subclinical hypothyroidism and goiter 3. Primary thyroid failure 4. Hypothyroidism 5. Adolescent goiter 6. Painless thyroiditis or silent thyroiditis 7. Postpartum painless thyrotoxicosis 8. Alternating hypo- and hyperthyroidism In some instances the thyroid gland may enlarge rapidly; rarely, it is associated with dyspnea or dysphagia from pressure on structures in the neck, or with mild pain and tenderness. Rarely, pain is persistent and unresponsive to medical treatment and requires medical therapy or surgery. The goiter of Hashimoto's thyroiditis may remain unchanged for decades(37), but usually it gradually increases in size. Occasionally the course is marked by symptoms of mild thyrotoxicosis, especially during the early phase of the disease. Symptoms and signs of mild hypothyroidism may be present in 20% of patients when first seen(41), or commonly develop over a period of several years. Progression from subclinical hypothyroidism (normal FT 4 but elevated TSH) to overt hypo-thyroidism occurs in a certain fraction (perhaps 3-5%) each year. Eventually thyroid atrophy and myxedema may occur(43). This assertion is based on the clinical observation that patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis often develop myxedema, and the knowledge that patients with myxedema due to atrophy of the thyroid have a high incidence of TG Ab in their serum. The disease frequently produces goitrous myxedema in young women, and we have occasionally observed a goitrous and hypothyroid patient who went on to develop thyroid atrophy.Occasionally, patients with Hashimoto痴 thyroiditis have persistent pain which is unresponsive to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, replacement with thyroid hormone, and recurs after therapy with steroids. Kon and DeGroot recently reported seven patients who finally came to subtotal or near-total thyroidectomy, some of whom received subsequent radioactive iodide thyroid ablation, with final relief of symptoms (Kon, YC; DeGroot, LJ. Painful Hashimoto痴 thyroiditis as an indication for thyroidectomy: clinical characteristics and outcome in seven patients. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 88 2667-2672 2003). Generally the progression from euthyroidism to hypothyroidism has been considered an irreversible process due to thyroid cell damage and loss of thyroidal iodine stores (Fig. 8-4). However, it is now clear that up to one-fourth of patients who are hypothyroid may spontaneously return to normal function over the course of several years. This sequence may reflect the initial effect of high titers
