Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


up to one-fourth of patients who are hypothyroid may spontaneously return to normal function over the course of several years. This sequence may reflect the initial effect of high titers of thyroid stimulation blocking antibodies which fall with time and allow thyroid function to return(23). Figure 4. Fluorescent thyroid scan in thyroiditis. The normal thyroid scan (left) allows identification of a thyroid with normal stable (127I) stores throughout both lobes. A marked reduction in 127I content is apparent throughout the entire gland involved with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (right). Within the past few years, several unusual syndromes believed to be associated with or part of the clinical spectrum of Hashimoto's thyroiditis have been described. Occasional patients develop amyloid deposits in the thyroid (44). Shaw et al.(45) described five patients with a relapsing steroid-responsive encephalopathy including episodes like stroke and seizures, high CSF protein, abnormal EEG, and normal CAT scans (see Hashimoto's encephalopathy below). Khardon et al.(46) described a steroid responsive lymphocytic interstitial pneumonitis in four patients. It remains uncertain how these illnesses relate to lymphocytic thyroiditis, which has until now been largely identified as an organ specific disease. At 5 years of follow-up of the natural course of euthyroid Hashimoto's thyroiditis in Italian children, more than 50% of the patients remained or became euthyroid (46-1). The presence of goiter and elevated TGab at presentation, together with progressive increase in both TPOab and TSH, may be predictive factors for the future development of hypothyroidism. Hashimoto's thyroiditis and hypothyroidism are associated with Addison's disease, diabetes mellitus, hypogonadism, hypopara-thyroidism, and pernicious anemia. Such combinations are described as the polyglandular failure syndrome. Two forms of polyglandular autoimmunity have been recognized(47). In the Type I syndrome patients have hypoparathyroidism, muco-cutaneous candidiasis, Addison's disease, and occasionally hypothyroidism. Type II, more frequent, often includes familial associations of diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, hypoadrenalism, and occasionally gonadal or pituitary failure. In these syndromes, antibodies reacting with the affected end organs are characteristically present. Vitiligo, hives, and alopecia are associated with thyroiditis. There is also a clear association with primary and secondary Sjogren's syndrome(48). Some patients appear to start with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and progress with time to the picture of Riedel's thyroiditis including the frequently-associated retroperitoneal fibrosis(49). Musculoskeletal symptoms, including chest pain, fibrositis, and rheumatoid arthritis, occur in one-quarter of patients(50), and of course, any of the musculoskeletal symptoms of hypothyroidism may likewise occur. It has been suggested that thyroiditis predisposes to vascular
