Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


and rheumatoid arthritis, occur in one-quarter of patients(50), and of course, any of the musculoskeletal symptoms of hypothyroidism may likewise occur. It has been suggested that thyroiditis predisposes to vascular disease and coronary occlusion. Abnormally elevated titers of thyroid autoantibodies and the morphologic changes of thyroiditis are said to occur with an increased frequency among patients with coronary artery disease. Mild hypothyroidism(51) associated with asymptomatic atrophic thyroiditis could predispose patients to heart disease. Others have failed to find increased TG Ab in-patients with coronary artery disease(52) or increased coronary disease in association with thyroiditis. Although chronic inflammation, leading to neoplastic transformation, is a well-established clinical phenomenon, the link between Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and thyroid cancer remains controversial (52a, b). Larson et al. reported that patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis were three times more likely to have thyroid cancer, suggesting a strong link between chronic inflammation and cancer development (52-1). PI3K/Akt expression was increased in both Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and well-differentiated thyroid cancer, suggesting a possible molecular mechanism for thyroid carcinogenesis. Thyroid cancer may be associated with less aggressive disease and better outcome in patients with coexisting Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. (52b, c, d) In children, retarded growth, retarded bone age, decreased hydroxyproline excretion, and elevated cholesterol levels may be seen (Fig. 8-5). Figure 5. Identical male twins with Hashimoto's thyroiditis were photographed at age 12. At age 8, they had the same height and appearance. During the intervening 4 years, small goiters developed and the growth of the twin on the right almost stopped. Biopsy indicated Hashimoto's thyroiditis in each twin's thyroid. Hashimoto's Thyroiditis in Identical Twin Boys* D.L. was seen at age 12 for failure to grow over the past 4 years. The patient had an identical twin, whose development up to age 8 had been entirely normal. Pubertal changes had developed at age 11. No goiter had been noted. On physical examination, he was a short, cooperative, pubertal boy of normal intelligence, 129 cm in height and 35 kg in weight. The thyroid gland was smooth and firm, and of normal size. The skin was dry, cool, and mottled. Reflex relaxation was delayed. Estimated T 4 levels were < 4 ug/dl, and the 24-hour RAIU was 4%. Thyroid scan showed a normal thyroid gland. Bone age was 8 years. The potassium thiocyanate discharge test result was negative. Thyroid biopsy showed a moderately diffuse lymphocytic infiltrate with lymphoid germinal centers and a diffuse, dense
