Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


gland. Bone age was 8 years. The potassium thiocyanate discharge test result was negative. Thyroid biopsy showed a moderately diffuse lymphocytic infiltrate with lymphoid germinal centers and a diffuse, dense fibrous reaction. R.L. was seen simultaneously with D.L. and was an active, healthy-appearing boy with early pubertal changes. His height was 149 cm, and his weight was 39.7 kg. The pulse was 104. The skin was normal. The thyroid gland was enlarged to about three times the normal size and was not nodular. PBI levels were 6.4 and 7.2 ug/dl, and the 24- hour RAIU was 21%. Bone age was 11 years. A potassium thiocyanate discharge test caused no decrease in neck radioactivity. Biopsy showed diffuse lymphocytic infiltration, lymphoid follicles and germinal centers, atrophy of thyroid follicles, oxyphilic cytoplasm, and dense fibrosis. Similar fingerprints, similar lip and ear shapes, and identity of 15 blood factors indicated that they were identical twins. There was no family history of thyroid disease. Iodide kinetic studies showed rapid turnover of thyroid iodide and production of excess quantities of plasma butanol-insoluble iodine. Hemagglutination test results for TG Ab were negative, but an immunofluorescence assay showed a strongly positive reaction against a cytoplasmic antigen. Bioassay of the serum for thyroid-stimulating activity gave a TSH-type response.* These patients were studied in cooperation with Dr. William H. Milburn, to whom we are greatly indebted. When goiter is induced by iodine administration, lymphocytic thyroiditis is frequently found and thyroid autoantibodies are often present(53). Remission of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, with loss of goiter, hypothyroidism, and serum thyroid autoantibodies, has been reported during pregnancy, with relapse after delivery(54). Antibody levels usually fall during pregnancy(55). These phenomena may reflect the immunosuppressive effects of pregnancy. After delivery thyroid autoantibody levels rise, and after 2-6 months there may be sudden development (? return) of goiter and hypothyroidism (56). Concerning management of thyroid dysfunction during pregnancy and postpartum, an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline was developed (56a, Chapter 14). Management of thyroid diseases during pregnancy requires special considerations because pregnancy induces major changes in thyroid function, and maternal thyroid disease can have adverse effects on the pregnancy and the fetus. Care requires coordination among several healthcare professionals. Avoiding maternal (and fetal) hypothyroidism is of major importance because of potential damage to fetal neural development, an increased incidence of miscarriage, and preterm delivery. Maternal hyperthyroidism and its treatment may be accompanied by coincident problems in fetal thyroid
