Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


because of potential damage to fetal neural development, an increased incidence of miscarriage, and preterm delivery. Maternal hyperthyroidism and its treatment may be accompanied by coincident problems in fetal thyroid function. Autoimmune thyroid disease is associated with both increased rates of miscarriage, for which the appropriate medical response is uncertain at this time, and postpartum thyroiditis. Fine-needle aspiration cytology should be performed for dominant thyroid nodules discovered in pregnancy. Radioactive isotopes must be avoided during pregnancy and lactation. Universal screening of pregnant women for thyroid disease is not yet supported by adequate studies, but case finding targeted to specific groups of patients who are at increased risk is strongly supported. One report recommended screening all pregnant women for autoimmune thyroid disease in the first trimester in terms of cost-effectiveness (56b). Of course maternal antibodies cross the placenta, and as in Graves' disease, may affect the fetus and neonate. TPO and TG Ab typically appear to have no adverse effect. Some evidence suggests cytotoxic antibodies, which are thought to be different from TPO Ab or TG Ab, could cause fetal hypothyroidism(57). However, TSBAb can rarely produce neonatal hypothyroidism, which is self-limiting over 4-6 weeks as the maternal IgG is metabolized. Women with positive TPO antibody before assisted reproduction have a significantly increased risk for miscarriage, with an odds ratio of 3.77 (Poppe, K; Glinoer, D; Tournaye, H; Devroey, P; van Steirteghem, A; Kaufman, L; Velkeniers, B. Assisted reproduction and thyroid autoimmunity: an unfortunate combination? J Clin Endocrinol Metab 88 4149-4152 2003). Y.L.C., 24-Year-Old Woman, Postpartum, Not-So-Transient Hypothyroidism The patient had menarche at age 16 and had regular periods. She married at age 24 and was not able to conceive. After receiving danazol therapy for 7 months for treatment of extensive endometriosis, she became pregnant and delivered after 36 weeks' gestation. During the course of this pregnancy, her thyroid gland was noted to be normal; no thyroid function tests were done. After delivery, she nursed the infant for 1 week. She then stopped nursing, but galactorrhea and amenorrhea continued for the next 5 months. After the fourth month, she was noted to have an enlarged thyroid gland; the FT 4 I was found to be 3.4 (normal, 6.0 - 10.5) and TSH level 27 uU/ml. There were symptoms of mild hypothyroidism, with some lowering of the voice and increase in fatigue. A sister had an overactive thyroid and mild exophthalmos. Her thyroid
