Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


level 27 uU/ml. There were symptoms of mild hypothyroidism, with some lowering of the voice and increase in fatigue. A sister had an overactive thyroid and mild exophthalmos. Her thyroid was estimated to weigh about 40 g, with a smooth surface and an enlarged lobe. Skin was dry, and there was some delay in the reflex relaxation. TGAb were present at a titer of 1/160 and TPOAb at 1/20480. Serum T 3 level was 123 ng/dl, and the RAIU was 16% at 4 hours and 32% at 24 hours. The thyroid scan was within normal limits. Prolactin (PRL) level was elevated at 43 ng/ml. Sella turcica X-ray films and a CT scan of the head were normal. It was hypothesized that the patient had postpartum hypothyroidism due to transient exacerbation of thyroiditis and that this condition might resolve spontaneously. Whether the hyperprolactinemia, amenorrhea, and galactorrhea were secondary to the hypothyroidism or were independent problems was at first unclear. The patient was treated expectantly, since she appeared to be in no distress and there was no evidence of pituitary tumor. One month after the initial observations, the TSH level had fallen to 13.5 uU/ml and the T 3 level remained at 126 ng/dl. Eight weeks later, the FT 4 I had risen to 5.8, the T 3 level was 113 ng/dl, TSH 9.1 uU/ml, and the PRL remained at 66 ng/ml. Later, all test results became normal. Painless (silent) and Postpartum Thyroiditis In the last decade several syndromes involving clinically significant, but self-limited, exacerbations of AITD have been delineated(54)-(59). Silent (painless) thyroiditis is a syndrome that has a clinical course of thyroid dysfunction similar to subacute thyroiditis but with no anterior neck pain and no tenderness of the thyroid. Initially, patients have a thyrotoxic phase, later passing through euthyroidism to hypothyroidism and, finally, return to euthyroidism. Postpartum thyroiditis occurs within 6 months after delivery and runs an identical clinical course(57). Postpartum thyroiditis is now considered to be identical to silent thyroiditis, and this term is used for patients who developed silent thyroiditis in the postpartum period(57). After delivery, other forms of autoimmune thyroid dysfunction also occur, including Graves' disease, transient hypothyroidism without preceding destructive thyrotoxicosis, and persistent hypothyroidism (Fig. 8-6). In recent years, the term painless thyroiditis also has been used frequently, and the same disorder has been described using different names, such as thyrotoxicosis with painless thyroiditis(60), occult subacute thyroiditis(61),
