Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


recent years, the term painless thyroiditis also has been used frequently, and the same disorder has been described using different names, such as thyrotoxicosis with painless thyroiditis(60), occult subacute thyroiditis(61), hyperthyroiditis(64), lymphocytic thyroiditis with spontaneously resolving hyperthyroidism(62), painless thyroiditis and transient hyperthyroidism without goiter(63), and transient hyperthyroidism with lymphocytic thyroiditis(65). The thyrotoxicosis is induced by leakage of intrathyroidal hormones into the circulation caused by damage to thyroid epithelial cells from inflammation. Thus the thyroid radioactive iodine uptake (RAIU) is low(59). Therefore, the early phase of thyrotoxicosis in silent thyroiditis, postpartum thyroiditis, and subacute thyroiditis can be grouped together as destruction-induced thyrotoxicosis or simply as destructive thyrotoxicosis(66). When the measurement of radioactive iodine uptake is difficult, the measurement of anti-TSH receptor antibody and/or thyroid blood flow by ultrasonography may be useful to differentiate between destruction-induced thyrotoxicosis and Graves' thyrotoxicosis. The quantitative measurement by power Doppler ultrasonography was more effective than that of anti-TSH receptor antibody for differential diagnosis of these two types of thyrotoxicosis and may omit the radioactive iodine uptake test (66-1). Figure 6. Much evidence, including histopathological and immunological studies, indicates that this disorder is an autoimmune thyroid disease(68). It is believed to be due to autoimmune induced damage to the thyroid causing excess hormone release, and for this reason is not responsive to antithyroid drugs, KI or KCLO 4 , but does, if treatment is necessary, respond to prednisone(67). During the clinical course of subclinical or very mild autoimmune thyroiditis, aggravating factors cause exacerbation of the destructive process. All women with subclinical autoimmune thyroiditis(40) and antithyroid microsomal antibodies of more than 1:5120 before pregnancy develop postpartum thyroiditis(57). A significant percentage of patients with silent thyroiditis have personal or family histories of autoimmune thyroid disease. Most patients have a complete remission, but some develop persistent hypothyroidism(70). Some patients have had alternating episodes of typical "high-uptake" thyrotoxicosis and episodes of "transient" low-uptake thyrotoxicosis(69). Recurrence of disease is common in silent thyroiditis but very rare in subacute thyroiditis. Considering all these data, it is assumed that silent thyroiditis is caused by an exacerbation of autoimmune thyroiditis induced by aggravating factors. Thyroiditis frequently recurs, and seasonal allergic rhinitis is reported to be an initiation factor(71). Physically vigorous massage on the neck also was reported to be a contributing factor for silent thyroiditis(72). The prevalence of silent thyroiditis, including postpartum disease, is around 5 per cent of all types of thyrotoxicosis. Spontaneous silent
