Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


was reported to be a contributing factor for silent thyroiditis(72). The prevalence of silent thyroiditis, including postpartum disease, is around 5 per cent of all types of thyrotoxicosis. Spontaneous silent thyroiditis is three times more frequent than postpartum thyroiditis. An immune rebound mechanism has been established for the induction of postpartum thyroiditis(57). Postpartum thyroid destruction is associated with an increase in NK cell counts and activity(57). Cessation of steroid therapy has initiated silent thyroiditis in a patient with autoimmune thyroiditis and rheumatoid arthritis(73), presumably because this also allows immune rebound. In patients with Cushing's syndrome who have associated subclinical autoimmune thyroiditis, silent thyroiditis has occurred after unilateral adrenalectomy(74). Typically, painless thyroiditis or destructive thyrotoxicosis occurs at 2 to 4 months postpartum. The prevalence of postpartum thyroiditis ranges from 3 to 8 per cent of all pregnancies(57).POSSIBLE PREVENTION OF PPT-In a randomized prospective controlled study, 77 TPO+ pregnant women received 200 ug selenomethionine daily starting at the 12th week of pregnancy, and 74 TPO+ women received a placebo. The treated group had significantly lower TPO antibody levels at the end of pregnancy and during the post-partum while on treatment. The incidence of PPT was reduced from 48.6 to 28.6% in the treated group, and the incidence of permanent hypothyroidism was equivalently reduced. Thyroid hormone levels did not differ.( Negro R, Greco G, Mangieri T, Pezzarossa A, Dazzi D, Hassan H. The influence of selenium supplementation on postpartum thyroid status in pregnant women with thyroid peroxidase autoantibodies. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2007 Apr;92(4):1263-8) . Hashimoto's encephalopathy Hashimoto's encephalopathy or encephalitis is a very rare complication of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Neurological complications are sometimes associated with thyroid dysfunction but patients with this encephalopathy are usually euthyroid. It is treatable, steroid-responsive, progressive or relapsing encephalopathy associated with elevation of thyroid specific autoantibodies (75). This condition was first described in 1966 (76) and may present as a subacute or acute encephalopathy with seizures and stroke-like episodes, often in association with myoclonus and tremor (77). It is associated with abnormal EEG and high CSF proteins without pleocytosis. Some patients suffer from a significant residual disability(78). Antibody to α-enolase has been identified in some patients (79) but this antibody is also frequently found in other autoimmune diseases. Sawka et al. reported that this condition is not caused by thyroid dysfunction or antithyroid antibodies but represents an association of an uncommon autoimmune encephalopathy with a common autoimmune thyroid disease
