Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


et al. reported that this condition is not caused by thyroid dysfunction or antithyroid antibodies but represents an association of an uncommon autoimmune encephalopathy with a common autoimmune thyroid disease (80). Identification of antibodies to brain specific antigens may disclose the real pathogenesis of this condition. Recently, autoantibodies against the amino (NH 2 )-terminal of α-enolase (referred to as NAE) were reported to be highly specific in sera from a limited number of HE patients (68-83% with HE; 11%, 2 of 17 with HT without any neuropsychiatric features; none of controls [50 individuals] including those with other neurological or immunological conditions involving encephalopathy [25 individuals]) (80.1, 80.2). Steroid reversible cerebral hypometabolism was recently documented by PET scanning in this condition. (80.3) There is a report that Hashimoto’s encephalopathy associated with elevated intrathecal and serum IgG4 levels. (80.3a) Additional case studies, including histological investigations as well as measurements of IgG4, are needed to elucidate the pathological role of IgG4 in Hashimoto’s encephalopathy. Hashimoto's ophthalopathy Thyroid-associated orbitopathy (TAO) usually occurs in Graves’s disease with hyperthyroidism, and sometimes in euthyroid and hypothyroid patients. Since most euthyroid and hypothyroid patients with orbitopathy are thyrotropin receptor antibody (TRAb)-positive, they are diagnosed as having euthyroid Graves’ disease or hypothyroid Graves’ disease. When euthyroid and hypothyroid patients with orbitopathy are TRAb-negative but associated with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, “Hashimoto's ophthalopathy” may be considered (80.4, 80.5). Because patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis test negative for TRAb, other autoantibodies against an eye muscle antigen, such as calsequestrin, flavoprotein, or G2s are postulated (80.6). IODIDE METABOLISM AND EFFECTS Many patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis do not respond to injected TSH with the expected increase in RAIU or release of hormone from the gland(81). These findings probably mean that the gland is partially destroyed by the autoimmune attack and is unable to augment iodine metabolism further. Further, the thyroid gland of the patient with Hashimoto's disease does not organify normally(82) (Fig. 8-4). Administration of 400 mg potassium perchlorate 1 hour after giving a tracer iodide releases 20 - 60% of the glandular radioactivity. Also, a fraction of the iodinated compounds in the serum of patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis is not soluble in butanol, as are the thyroid hormones, but is an abnormal peptide-linked iodinated component. This low-weight iodoprotein is probably serum albumin that has been iodinated in the thyroid gland. A similar iodoprotein is also found in several other kinds of thyroid disease, including carcinoma,
