Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


This low-weight iodoprotein is probably serum albumin that has been iodinated in the thyroid gland. A similar iodoprotein is also found in several other kinds of thyroid disease, including carcinoma, Graves' disease, and one form of goitrous cretinism. It may be formed as part of the hyperplastic response. TG is also detectable in their serum. Iodide is actively transported from blood to thyrocytes and recently the sodium / iodide symporter (NIS) has been cloned. Antibodies against NIS were found in autoimmune thyroid disease(83). This antibody has an inhibitory activity on iodide transport and may modulate the thyroid function in Hashimoto's thyroiditis. More recent studies reported rather low prevalence (less than 10%) of anti-NIS antibodies in Hashimoto's disease and clinical relevance is still unknown(84),(85). In animal experiment iodine depletion prevents the development of autoimmune thyroiditis(86). It is suggested that mild iodine deficiency partly protect against autoimmune thyroid disease(87), although it is controversial(88). In a region where iodine-containing food (such as seaweed) is common, as in Japan, excessive dietary iodine intake (1000 micro g/day or more) may cause transient hypothyoidism in patients with subclinical autoimmune thyroiditis. This condition is easily reversible with a reduction in iodine intake(89). Iodine is important not only for thyroid hormone synthesis but also for induction and modulation of thyroid autoimmunity. In general, iodine deficiency attenuates, which iodine excess accelerates autoimmune thyroiditis in autoimmune prone individuals(90). In animal experiment, it is revealed that enhanced iodination of thyroglobulin facilitates the selective processing and presentation of a cryptic phatogenic peptide in vivo or in vitro. Moreover, it is suggested that iodine excess stimulates thymus development and effects function of various immune cells(91). DIAGNOSIS Diagnosis involves two considerations -- the differential diagnosis of the thyroid lesion and the assessment determination of the metabolic status of the patient. A diffuse, firm goiter with pyramidal lobe enlargement, and without signs of thyrotoxicosis, should suggest the diagnosis of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Most often the gland is bosselated or "nubbey." It is usually symmetrical, although much variation in symmetry (as well as consistency) can occur. The trachea is rarely deviated or compressed. The association of goiter with hypothyroidism is almost diagnostic of this condition, but is also seen in certain syndromes due to defective hormone synthesis or hormone response, as described in Chapter 9. Pain and tenderness are unusual but may be present. A rapid onset is also unusual, but the goiter may rarely grow from
