Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


or hormone response, as described in Chapter 9. Pain and tenderness are unusual but may be present. A rapid onset is also unusual, but the goiter may rarely grow from normal to several times the normal size in a few weeks. Most commonly the gland is two to four times the normal size. Satellite lymph nodes may be present, especially the Delphian node above the isthmus. Multinodular goiter occurs in significant incidence in adult women; thus the co-occurrence of multinodular goiter and Hashimoto's thyroiditis is not rare, and may provide the finding of a grossly nodular gland in a patient who is mildly hypothyroid and has positive antibody tests. The T 4 concentration and the FT 4 range from low to high but are most typically in the normal or low range(92). The RAIU (rarely required) is variable and ranges from below normal to elevated values, depending on such factors as TSH levels, the efficiency of use of iodide by the thyroid, and the nature of the components being released into the circulation. Gammaglobulin levels may be elevated, although usually they are normal(93). This alteration evidently reflects the presence of high concentrations of circulating antibodies to TG, for an antibody concentration as high as 5.2 mg/ml has been reported. T 4 and FTI are normal or low(92). Serum TSH reflects the patient's metabolic status. However, some patients are clinically euthyroid, with normal FTI and T 3 levels, but have mildly elevated TSH. Whether this "subclinical hypothyroidism" represents partial or complete compensation is a matter of debate. TPOAb, and less frequently TGAb are present in serum. High levels are diagnostic of autoimmune thyroid disease. TGAb are positive in about 80% of patients, and if both TGAb and TPOAb are measured, 97% are positive. Young patients tend to have lower and occasionally negative levels. In this age group, even low titers signify the presence of thyroid autoimmunity. FNA can be a useful diagnostic procedure but is infrequently required, except in patients that seem to have- or have- a discreet nodule in the gland. FNA typically reveals lymphocytes, macrophages, scant colloid, and a few epithelial cells which may show Hurthle cell change. In this context Hurthle cells do not represent a discrete adenoma. However if only abundant Hurthle cells dominate the specimen, and there are few or no lymphocytes or macrophages, the biopsy must be interpreted as a possible Hurthle cell tumor. Biopsy
