Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


However if only abundant Hurthle cells dominate the specimen, and there are few or no lymphocytes or macrophages, the biopsy must be interpreted as a possible Hurthle cell tumor. Biopsy results are less frequently diagnostic in children(95). Thyroid isotope scan is not usually necessary, but can be helpful. The image is characteristically that of a diffuse or mottled uptake in an enlarged gland, in striking contrast to the focal "cold" and "hot" areas of multinodular goiter. Focal loss of isotope accumulation may occur in severely diseased portions of the thyroid. Table 2. Guideline for the diagnosis of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (Chronic thyroiditis) View in own window * Some clinicians don't use the term Hashimoto's thyroiditis if patients have no goiter, although association of positive antibodies and lymphocytic infiltration in the thyroid gland was proved by histological examination. 1. Clinical findings Diffuse swelling of the thyroid gland without any other cause (such as Graves' disease) 2. Laboratory findings a. Positive for anti-thyroid microsomal antibody or anti-thyroid peroxidase(TPO) antibody b. Positive for anti-thyroglobulin antibody c. Lymphocytic infiltration in the thyroid gland confirmed with cytological examination 1. A patient shall be said to have Hashimoto's thyroiditis if he/she has satisfied clinical criterion and any one laboratory criterion.Notes a. A patients shall be suspected to have Hashimoto's thyroiditis, if he/she has primary hypothyroidism without any other cause to induce hypothyroidism. b. A patient shall be suspected to have Hashimoto's thyroiditis, if he/she has anti-thyroid microsomal antibody and/or anti-thyroglobulin antibody without thyroid dysfunction nor goiter formation.* c. If a patient with thyroid neoplasm has anti-thyroid antibody by chance, he or she should be considered to have Hashimoto's thyroiditis. d. A patient is possible to have Hashimoto's thyroiditis if hypoechoic and/or inhomogeneous pattern is observed in thyroid ultrasonography. Ultrasound may display an enlarged gland with normal texture, a characteristic picture with very low echogenicity, or a suggestion of multiple ill-defined nodules. Diagnostic guidelines made by The Japan Thyroid Association are shown in Table 8-2. The flow chart of diagnosis is shown in Figure 8-7.The incidental finding of diffusely increased (18)F-FDG uptake in the thyroid gland is mostly associated with chronic lymphocytic (Hashimoto's) thyroiditis and does not seem to be affected by thyroid hormone therapy (95.1). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Hashimoto's thyroiditis is to be distinguished from nontoxic nodular goiter or Graves' disease. The presence of gross nodularity is strong evidence against Hashimoto's thyroiditis, but differentiation on this basis is
