Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


develop. Thyroiditis is a risk factor for thyroid lymphoma, although the incidence is very low. Thyroid lymphoma develops in most cases in glands which harbor thyroiditis. Distinguishing thyroid lymphoma from Hashimoto's thyroiditis is sometimes quite difficult Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) detecting the monoclonality of immunoglobulin heavy chain mRNA is useful for differentiation between the two(99). This condition and its management are discussed in Chapter 18. Occasionally the picture of Hashimoto's thyroiditis blends rather imperceptibly into that of thyrotoxicosis, and some patients have symptoms of mild thyrotoxicosis, but then develop typical Hashimoto's thyroiditis. In fact, it is best to think of Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis as two very closely related syndromes produced by thyroid autoimmunity. Categorization depends on associated eye findings and the metabolic level, but the pathogenesis, histologic picture, and function may overlap. Likewise, we have seen patients who appear to have a mixture of Hashimoto's thyroiditis and subacute thyroiditis, with goiter, positive thyroid autoantibodies, normal or low FT 4 , and biopsies which have suggested Hashimoto's on one occasion and included giant cells on another. A form of painful chronic thyroiditis with amyloid infiltration has also been described, and is probably etiologically distinct from Hashimoto's thyroiditis(100). THERAPY Many patients need no treatment, for frequently the disease is asymptomatic and the goiter is small. This approach is justified by the study of Vickery and Hamlin(101), who found, on both clinical and pathologic grounds, that the disease may remain static and the clinical condition unchanged over many years. If the goiter is a problem because of local pressure symptoms, or is unsightly, thyroid hormone therapy is indicated. Thyroid hormone often causes a gratifying reduction in the size of the goiter after several months of treatment(100). We have been especially impressed with this result in young people. It seems likely that in older patients there may be more fibrosis and therefore less tendency for the thyroid to shrink. In young patients the response often occurs within 2 - 4 weeks, but in older ones the thyroid decreases in size more gradually. Aksoy et al (100a) report that "prophylactic" thyroid hormone treatment is associated after 15 months with a decrease in thyroid size and in thyroid antibody levels. Thyroid hormone in a full replacement dose is, of course, indicated if hypothyroidism is present. Therapy is probably indicated if the TSH level is elevated and the FT 4 is low normal, since
