Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


a full replacement dose is, of course, indicated if hypothyroidism is present. Therapy is probably indicated if the TSH level is elevated and the FT 4 is low normal, since the onset of hypothyroidism is predictable in such patients. There is no evidence that thyroid replacement actually halts the ongoing process of thyroiditis, but in some patients receiving treatment, antibody levels gradually fall over many years(102). Figure 7. Diagnosis of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (chronic thyroiditis) The dosage of thyroxine should normally be that required to bring the serum TSH level to the low normal range, such as .3 - 1 uU/ml. This is typically achieved with 1 ug L-T 4 /lb body weight/day, ranges from 75 - 125 ug/day in women, and 125 - 200 ug/day in men. It is sensible to initiate therapy with a partial dose, since in some instances the thyroid gland may be nonsuppressible even though functioning at a level below normal. Once thyroxine treatment is initiated, it is required indefinitely in most patients. However, it has been found that up to 20% of initially hypothyroid individuals will later recover and have normal thyroid function if challenged by replacement hormone withdrawal. This may represent subsidence of cytotoxic antibodies, modulation of TSBAb, or some other mechanism(22). These individuals can be identified by administration of TRH, which will induce an increase in serum T 4 and T 3 if the thyroid has recovered(103). Replacement T 4 therapy should be taken several hours before or after medications such as cholesterol binding resins, carafate, and FSO4, which can reduce absorption(104). (See Chapter 9) Autoimmune disease is usually takes an ongoing process and Hashimoto's thyroiditis develops into hypothyroidism. Recent trial of proplylactic treatment with T 4 (1.0 ~ 2.0µg/Kg/day) for one year in euthyroid patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis showed decrease of anti-TPO antibodies and thyroid B-lymphocytes(105), suggesting prophylactic T 4 therapy might be useful to stop progression of disease. The long-term clinical benefit should be established in the future.Whether or not subclinical hypothyroidism should be treated is still under debate (see Chapter 9.10 SUBCLINICAL HYPOTHYROIDISM). Cardiac dysfunction may be associated with subclinical hypothyroidism, even when serum TSH is still in the normal range. These abnormalities are reversible with l-T 4 replacement therapy (22-1). In some instances the acute onset of the disease, in association with pain, has prompted therapy with glucocorticoids. This treatment alleviates the symptoms and improves the associated biochemical abnormalities,
