Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


(22-1). In some instances the acute onset of the disease, in association with pain, has prompted therapy with glucocorticoids. This treatment alleviates the symptoms and improves the associated biochemical abnormalities, and in some studies has been shown to increase plasma T 3 and T 4 levels by suppression of the autoimmune process(106). Blizzard and co-workers(107) have given steroids over several months to children in an attempt to suppress antibody production and possibly to achieve a permanent remission. The adrenocortical hormones dramatically depress clinical activity of the disease and antibody titers, but all return to pre-therapy levels when treatment is withdrawn. We cannot recommend steroid therapy for this condition because of the undesirable side effects of the drug. Chloroquine has been reported in one study to reduce antibody titers(108). Because of toxicity, its use is not advised. X-ray therapy also results in a decrease in goiter size, and frequently in myxedema, but should not be used because of the possible induction of thyroid carcinoma. SELENIUM- In a randomized prospective controlled study, 77 TPO+ pregnant women received 200 ug selenomethionine daily starting at the 12th week of pregnancy, and 74 TPO+ women received a placebo. The treated group had significantly lower TPO antibody levels at the end of pregnancy and during the post-partum while on treatment. The incidence of PPT was reduced from 48.6 to 28.6% in the treated group, and the incidence of permanent hypothyroidism was equivalently reduced. Thyroid hormone levels did not differ. This one report is certainly most interesting, but needs confirmation before this treatment can be suggested for general application (108.1). Confirming earlier studies, in Hashimoto’s patients, 200 mug Se in the form of l-selenomethionine orally for 6 months caused a significant decrease of 21% in serum anti-TPO levels. Cessation caused an increase in the anti-TPO concentrations.(108.2). A slightly opposing study, however, was reported no immunological benefit of selenium in patients with moderate disease activity (in terms of TPOAb and cytokine production patterns) may not (equally) benefit as patients with high disease activity (108.3). Selenium responsiveness may be different among patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. A systematic review and meta-Analysis revealed that selenium supplementation reduced serum TPOAb levels after 3, 6, and 12 months in an LT4-treated Hashimoto’s population, and after three months in an untreated population (108.4). However, no effect of selenium supplementation on thyroid stimulating hormone, health-related quality of life or thyroid ultrasound was found in levothyroxine
