Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


and after three months in an untreated population (108.4). However, no effect of selenium supplementation on thyroid stimulating hormone, health-related quality of life or thyroid ultrasound was found in levothyroxine substitution-untreated individuals, and sporadic evaluation of clinically relevant outcomes in levothyroxine substitution-treated patients (108.5). Future well-powered RCTs, evaluating e.g. disease progression or health-related quality of life, are warranted before determining the relevance of selenium supplementation in autoimmune thyroiditis. Further, combined treatment with Myo-inositol and selenium was reported that the beneficial effects obtained by selenomethionine treatment on patients affected by subclinical hypothyroidism were further improved by cotreatment with Myo-Inositol (108.6). Myo-Inositol s an isomer of a C6 sugar alcohol an plays an important role in several cellular processes. In particular, it has been demonstrated that Myo-Inositol is the precursor for the synthesis of phosphoinositides, which are part of the phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) signal transduction pathway. In one study. the administration of myo- inositol plus selenium has been reported to be effective in decreasing TSH, TPOAb, and TgAb levels, as well as enhancing thyroid hormones and personal wellbeing, therefore restoring euthyroidism in patients diagnosed with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (108.7). Anatabine- Anatabine, an alkaloid found in Solanaceae plants including tobacco, has been reported to ameliorate a mouse model of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. (108.8). In a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled multi-site study for three months, anatabine treated patients had a significant reduction in absolute serum TgAb levels from baseline by study end relative to those on placebo (p=0.027) (108.9). Further studies are warranted to dissect longer-term effects and possible actions of anatabine on the course of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Surgery has been used as a method of therapy. This treatment, of course, removes the goiter but usually results in hypothyroidism. We believe that it is not indicated unless significant pain, cosmetic, or pressure symptoms remain after a fair trial of thyroid therapy, and probably steroid therapy, but is appropriate in some cases. Among patients with postpartum thyroid dysfunction, the most common type is destructive thyrotoxicosis and simple symptomatic treatment, using beta-adrenergic--antagonists, is usually sufficient(109). In the case of postpartum hypothyroidism, replacement with a submaximal dose of T 3 is useful to relieve symptoms more quickly and to predict spontaneous recovery which is detected by an increase of T 4 . Some patients do not fit easily into the usual diagnostic categories; accordingly, choosing an appropriate course of therapy is more difficult. Frequently, it is impossible to differentiate Hashimoto's thyroiditis
