Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


. Some patients do not fit easily into the usual diagnostic categories; accordingly, choosing an appropriate course of therapy is more difficult. Frequently, it is impossible to differentiate Hashimoto's thyroiditis from multinodular goiter short of performing an open biopsy. In these cases, if there is no suggestion of carcinoma, it is logical to treat the patient with hormone replacement and to observe closely. A reduction in the goiter justifies continuation of the therapy, even in the absence of a diagnosis. In some patients, especially teenagers, the examination discloses peri-thyroidal lymph nodes or an apparent discrete nodule, in addition to the diffusely enlarged thyroid of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Such nodules should be evaluated by FNA, ultrasound and possibly scintiscan. Thyroid hormone treatment may cause regression of the nodes or nodule. If after full evaluation uncertainty persists, if nodes remain present, or if a nodule grows, surgical exploration is indicated. Treatment of children and adolescents with 1.3ug/kg/day thyroxine for 24 months was shown in a recent study to cause significant reduction in thyroid size in patients with Autoimmune thyroiditis, but not affect antibody levels, or significantly alter TSH or freeT 4 . (110) Occasionally, symptoms of serositis or arthritis suggest the coincident occurrence of another autoimmune disorder. We have given thyroid hormone to decrease thyroid activity and possibly reduce a tendency to antibody formation, and have treated the generalized disorder independently as indicated. SUMMARY Hashimoto's thyroiditis is characterized clinically as a commonly occurring, painless, diffuse enlargement of the thyroid gland occurring predominantly in middle-aged women. The patients are often euthyroid, but hypothyroidism may develop. The thyroid parenchyma is diffusely replaced by a lymphocytic infiltrate and fibrotic reaction; frequently, lymphoid germinal follicles are visible. Attention has been focused on this process because of the demonstration of autoimmune phenomena in most patients. Persons with Hashimoto's thyroiditis have serum antibodies reacting with TG, TPO, and against an unidentified protein present in colloid. In addition, many patients have cell mediated immunity directed against thyroid antigens, demonstrable by several techniques. Cell mediated immunity is also a feature of experimental thyroiditis induced in animals by injection of thyroid antigen with adjuvants. All theories also emphasize a basic abnormality in the immune surveillance system, which in some way allows autoimmunity to develop against thyroid antigens, and as well against other tissues, including stomach, adrenal, and ovaries, in many patients with thyroiditis. We suggest that Hashimoto's thyroiditis, primary myxedema, and Graves'
