Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroid, thyroiditis, hashimoto, hashimoto thyroiditis, disease, autoimmune, patients, hypothyroidism, endocrinol, clin, cells, goiter, gland, metab, autoimmune thyroiditis


to develop against thyroid antigens, and as well against other tissues, including stomach, adrenal, and ovaries, in many patients with thyroiditis. We suggest that Hashimoto's thyroiditis, primary myxedema, and Graves' disease are different expressions of a basically similar autoimmune process, and that the clinical appearance reflects the spectrum of the immune response in the particular patient. This response may include cytotoxic antibodies, stimulatory antibodies, blocking antibodies, or cell mediated immunity. Thyrotoxicosis is viewed as an expression of the effect of circulating thyroid stimulatory antibodies. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is predominantly the clinical expression of cell mediated immunity leading to destruction of thyroid cells, which in its severest form produces thyroid failure and idiopathic myxedema. The clinical disease is more frequent than Graves' Disease when mild cases are included. The incidence is on the order of three to six cases per 10,000 population per year, and prevalence among women is at least 2%. The gland involved by thyroiditis tends to lose its ability to store iodine, produces and secretes iodoproteins that circulate in plasma, and is inefficient in making hormone. Thus, the thyroid gland is under increased TSH stimulation, fails to respond to exogenous TSH, and has a rapid turnover of thyroidal iodine. Diagnosis is made by the finding of a diffuse, smooth, firm goiter in a young woman, with strongly positive titers of TG Ab and/or TPO Ab and a euthyroid or hypothyroid metabolic status. A patient with a small goiter and euthyroidism does not require therapy unless the TSH level is elevated. The presence of a large gland, progressive growth of the goiter, or hypothyroidism indicates the need for replacement thyroid hormone. Surgery is rarely indicated. Development of lymphoma, though very unusual, must be considered if there is growth or pain in the involved gland. References Hashimoto H. Zur Kenntniss der lymphomatosen Veranderung der Schilddruse (struma lymphomatosa), Arch Klin Chir 97:219, 1912. McConahey WM, Keating FR Jr, Beahrs OH, Woolner LB. On the increasing occurrence of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 22:542, 1962. Fromm GA, Lascano EF, Bur GE, Escalenta D. Tiroiditis cronica inespecifica. Rev Assoc Med Arg 67:162, 1953. Luxton RW, Cooke RT. Hashimoto's struma lymphomatosa: Diagnostic value and significance of serum-flocculation reactions. Lancet 2:105, 1956. Rose NR, Witebsky E. Studies on organ specificity. V. Changes in thyroid glands of rabbits following active immunization with rabbit thyroid extracts. J Immunol 76:417, 1956. Roitt IM, Doniach D, Campbell PN, Hudson
