Fabbrietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:182
KEYWORDS: hbv, hcv, reactivation, hiv, daa, patients, infection, etal, treatment, patient, hbv reactivation, rna, log, hbv infection, treated


and total bilirubin at 7.1 mg/dl were docu- markers of previous viral exposure) or inactive HBV mented. HCV RNA was <12 IU/ml, HIV RNA <40 cop- chronic carriers (HBsAg-positive with normal ALT and ies/ml and CD4 count had increased to 561/mmc. With HBV DNA <3.30 log IU/ml), either undergoing trans- regards to HBV markers, HBsAg (3.71 log IU/ml) 10 10 plant or treated with chemotherapy or immunosuppres- and HBeAg changed into positive together with IgM santdrugsforhematologicmalignanciesorrheumatologic and IgG HBcAb, while HBsAb and HBeAb remained disorders. negative. Furthermore, HBV DNA was 6.06 log IU/ml. In the past, with the use of interferon (IFN)-based Treatmentwithentecavir0.5mgoncedailywaspromptly HCV therapy, exacerbation of acute HBV hepatitis in started obtaining resolution of symptoms. One month HBV-exposed patients has been described and an im- later, blood tests documented normalization of transami- mune modulating role of IFN postulated . More re- nases and reduction of HBV DNA at 3.78 log IU/l, of cently, a similar observation has been made with the HBsAg 1.91 log IU/ml and negativization of HBeAg use of interferon-free directly acting antivirals (DAA) (Fig.1).TreatmentforHBVinfectionisstillongoingwith- forHCVtreatment.InHIV/HCVco-infectedpatients, out adverse events and sustained virological response for who show HCV cure rates comparable to the general HCVwasachievedat12andat24weeksofobservation. population , only very few cases of HBV reactivation have been reported [6–10]. Thus, the frequency of HBV Discussion reactivation in HIV/HCV co-infected patients previously HBV reactivation of occult or inactive HBV infection in exposedtoHBVandtreatedwithDAAremainsunclear. HCV-infected persons during or after DAA therapy is Herein, we report an episode of reactivation of occult considered a rare event, even though lately an important HBV infection in an HIV/HCV co-infected patient pre- warning by the FDA about 24 cases of HBV reactivation scribed with sofosbuvir/ledipasvir for HCV treatment. during DAA HCV treatment has been released . In Further,ashortreviewofsimilarcasespublishedinlitera- literature to date, only six cases of these have been re- tureisoutlined. ported and characteristics are summarized in Table 1: all eventsoccurredinsubjectsaged50yearsormore,mostly Case presentation infected by HCVgenotype 1, with frequent previous IFN The patient is a Caucasian 54-years old female diagnosed exposure,and treated withsofobuvir- or daclatasvir-based withHIV in 1986 and withchronic HCV hepatitis (geno- DAA regimens. Notably, only one case referred to a per- type4)in1992.Formanyyears,shewaslosttofollow-up sonwithHIVco-infection.OccasionallyHBVreactivation and refused antiretroviral therapy presenting only once in occurredduringDAAtreatment,whileotherwiseitdevel- 2011, when blood tests showed HIV RNA 4.93 log IU/ opedaftertreatmentcompletion.Insomecases,diagnosis ml, CD4 cells 245/mmc. Concurrently, previous exposure wasretrospectivelyestablished. to HBV infection was documented: 12.2 mIU/ml HBsAb To date, risk of HBV reactivation
