Fabbrietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:182
KEYWORDS: hbv, hcv, reactivation, hiv, daa, patients, infection, etal, treatment, patient, hbv reactivation, rna, log, hbv infection, treated


tests showed HIV RNA 4.93 log IU/ opedaftertreatmentcompletion.Insomecases,diagnosis ml, CD4 cells 245/mmc. Concurrently, previous exposure wasretrospectivelyestablished. to HBV infection was documented: 12.2 mIU/ml HBsAb To date, risk of HBV reactivation during treatment (positive >10 mIU/ml), positive HBcAb, and negative with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir seems low, and our patient is HBsAg at 0.01 IU/ml (positive >0.05 IU/ml). Afterwards only the second case described in literature . Regard- sheshowedupagaininJune2015,whenviroimmunologi- ing frequency of the event, reassuring data are available cal exams showed: HIV RNA 5.28 log copies/ml and from a recent study by Sulkowski et al., which retro- CD4count218/mmc.Atthattime,hermedicalhistoryin- spectively reanalyzed HBV markers in serum samples of cluded: myocardial infarct, chronic kidney disease (CKD) 173 HCV-infected patients without active HBV or HIV stage 3, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and mild infection and treated with a combination of ledipasvir/ pulmonary hypertension. HCV had not been treated with sofosbuvir. Notably, HBV reactivation during or after IFN-based regimens and liver stiffness was 10.5 KPa HCVclearance was found in none out of the 103 previ- (Metavir stage F3) at hepatic elastography. Because of ously HBV-exposed patients . Differently, in patients CKD, first-line antiretroviral treatment was a nucleoside with HCV and HBV co-infection, transitory HBV DNA reverse transcriptase (NRTI)-sparing regimen including reactivation rate seems very high, reaching 88% of a darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg plus etravirine 400 mg small case series treated with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir . QD. In January 2016, blood tests showed HIV RNA not Since accurate information regarding risk of HBV reacti- detected <40 copies/ml with CD4 cells 283/mmc and vation in patients undergoing DAA therapy is lacking, treatmentwithsofosbuvir/ledipasvir400/90mgoncedaily an important prospective study is ongoing in patients Fabbrietal.BMCInfectiousDiseases (2017) 17:182 Page3of5 Fig.1PlasmaHIV,HCV,HBVviralloads,liverfunctionandCD4cellcountdepictedovertime with active HBV/HCV infection , but the issue one virus on the other and a suppressing effect should also be addressed in HCV-infected patients with of HCV core proteins on HBV replication has been occult HBVinfection. postulated in some studies . Other studies have In our patient, the rapid clearance of HCV RNA with suggested that, host genes and immune regulation, such DAA treatment could have triggered HBV reactivation as kinase pathways or microRNA pathways, mediate leading to acute symptomatic hepatitis B. It also should the mechanism of underlying HBV inhibition . to be noted that, the low levels of HBsAb in 2011 and Regardless of the molecular mechanisms involved in the absence of this protective marker at hepatitis onset, HCV/HBVco-infection, the introduction of DAA drugs might have
