Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


directly attributed to hormonal signals originating from the FPU. The initiation and maintenance of pregnancy depends primarily on the interactions of neuronal and hormonal factors. Proper timing of these neuro-endocrine events within and between the placental, fetal, and maternal compartments is critical in directing fetal growth and development and in coordinating the timing of parturition. Maternal adaptations to hormonal changes that occur during pregnancy directly affect the development of the fetus and placenta. Gestational adaptations that take place in pregnancy include establishment of a receptive endometrium; implantation and the maintenance of early pregnancy; modification of the maternal system in order to provide adequate nutritional support for the developing fetus; and preparation for parturition and subsequent lactation. Figure 1. The interface between mother and fetus, known as the feto-placental unit (FPU), is a major site of protein and steroid hormone production and secretion. ENDOMETRIAL RECEPTIVITY The menstrual cycle, involves a synchronous production of ovarian steroid hormones, estrogen and progesterone, which induces structural and functional changes within the endometrium in anticipation for embryo implantation and the establishment of a pregnancy. During the luteal phase, under the primary influence of progesterone, the proliferative endometrium changes into secretory endometrium, which is well vascularized and composed of spiral arteries. A favorable environment for implantation is established via chemokines, growth factors, and cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) produced by the glandular secretory endometrium ( 1 ). The chemokines and CAMs serve to attract the blastocyst to the specific sites of implantation where the endometrium is strategically prepared for invasion and placentation ( 1 ). When implantation does not occur, a timely regression and destruction of the fully developed endometrium leads to menstruation. However, if implantation occurs, the endometrium continues to grow and undergoes further morphological and molecular changes to provide supportive environment for the growing embryo ( 2 ). Endometrial “receptivity” refers to this physiological state when the endometrium allows a blastocyst to attach, firmly adhere, penetrate, and induce localized changes in the endometrial stroma resulting in decidualization ( 2 ). The specific period, known as the “implantation window” opens 4-5 days after endogenous or exogenous progesterone stimulation and closes approximately 9-10 days later ( 3 , 4 ). Implantation has three stages: apposition, adhesion and penetration. Apposition is an initial unstable adhesion of the blastocyst to the endometrial surface. This stage is characterized histologically by the appearance of microprotrusions from the apical surface of the epithelium,
