Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


Apposition is an initial unstable adhesion of the blastocyst to the endometrial surface. This stage is characterized histologically by the appearance of microprotrusions from the apical surface of the epithelium, termed pinopodes, occurring six days after ovulation and retained for 24 hours during the implantation window. The pinopods express chemokines and CAMs, which attract the blastocyst floating within the endometrial cavity to appose. Additionally, the smooth surface of the pinopodes facilitates the apposition of the blastocyst to the endometrium. Further encouraging the blastocyst to appose to the pinopods is the removal of adhesion inhibiting mucin, while the areas between pinopods have been shown to express MUC-1, which prevents embryo adhesion ( 5 ). Once the blastocyst is apposed, a stronger attachment is achieved through local paracrine signaling between the embryo and the endometrium. At this stage, the blastocyst is sufficiently adherent to the endometrium as to resist dislocation of the blastocyst by flushing the uterine lumen. The first sign of the attachment reaction coincides with a localized increase in stromal vascular permeability which is manifested as stromal edema at the site of blastocyst attachment ( 6 ). Thus, vascular changes also appear to be an important factor in establishing endometrial receptivity. Following adhesion, the embryo invades through the luminal epithelium into the stroma to establish a relationship with the maternal vasculature. In response to this invasion and the presence of progesterone stimulation, the endometrial stromal cells undergo a process termed decidualization by which they differentiate and become specialized decidual stromal cells. Decidualization is essential for the survival and continued development of the pregnancy. In humans, decidual changes occur throughout the entire endometrium during the luteal phase even in the absence of an embryo, but become widespread in early gestation. These decidual stromal cells are very metabolically active and support the implanting embryo by secreting a wide array of hormones and growth factors including prolactin, relaxin, insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) and insulin growth factor binding proteins (IGFBPs). The endometrial stromal cells are the precursors of decidual stromal cells and appear to originate from both resident uterine mesenchymal stem cells as well as adult bone marrow-derived stem cells ( 7 , 8 ). Interestingly, bone marrow-derived progenitors have been shown to give rise to functional prolactin-producing decidual stromal cells in decidua of pregnant mice, and appear to play an important role in implantation and pregnancy maintenance ( 9 ). The bone marrow
