Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


rise to functional prolactin-producing decidual stromal cells in decidua of pregnant mice, and appear to play an important role in implantation and pregnancy maintenance ( 9 ). The bone marrow is also the source of many leukocytes that infiltrate the endometrium during the secretory phase. In humans, a large influx of leukocytes to the uterus occurs in response to ovulation and rising ovarian P4 production, elevating them to 40% of all endometrial cells in the mid-late secretory phase of the menstrual cycle ( 10 ). This gain in leukocyte numbers is primarily due to the accumulation of uterine natural killer (uNK) cells. Studies in mice additionally show that the selected entry of uNK cells into early decidua optimizes angiogenesis and promotes decidual spiral artery vascular remodeling. This influences the timing of uterine lumen closure and thereby the appropriate rate of early fetal development including initiation of trophoblast invasion ( 11 ). Macrophages are the second most abundant leukocyte population in the luteal phase endometrium. In addition to uterine NK cells and macrophages, the endometrium contains T cells with no apparent cyclic changes, and rare populations of dendritic cells in luteal phase endometrium, both of which become more abundant in the pregnant decidua. The composition and function of these immune cells at the implantation site and the maternal-fetal interface are highly specialized to foster embryo and placental development and to minimize the chance of immune rejection ( 12 ). Progesterone is essential in mediating the changes that the endometrium undergoes in the luteal phase in preparation for embryo implantation ( 13 ). The effects of progesterone on the uterus have been elucidated through elegant experiments in knockout mice as well as studies using progesterone receptor (PR) antagonists. Mice with global PR knockout are infertile due to defects in ovulation and implantation ( 14 ). Their endometrium displays hypertrophy and inflammation of the glandular epithelium associated with failure to undergo decidualization. Mice with a specific knockout in PR-B isoform, however, have normal ovarian function, implantation and reproductive capacity ( 15 , 16 ). In contrast, mice with a specific knockout in PR-A exhibit lack of decidualization in the endometrial stroma along with endometrial epithelial hyperplasia and inflammation ( 15 , 16 ), indicating that PR-A is critical for embryo implantation and the normal function of the endometrial epithelium and stroma, while PR-B promotes epithelial hyperplasia of the endometrium. Moreover, administration of the
