Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


indicating that PR-A is critical for embryo implantation and the normal function of the endometrial epithelium and stroma, while PR-B promotes epithelial hyperplasia of the endometrium. Moreover, administration of the progesterone antagonist mifepristone (RU486) in humans during pregnancy induces abortion, fetal loss or parturition, depending on the gestational age ( 17 , 18 ). If administered at low doses at the mid- or late follicular phase, it prevents pregnancy by delaying endometrial maturation, while at high doses it delays the LH surge and inhibits ovulation ( 19 , 20 ). The key to endometrial receptivity is the dynamic and precisely controlled molecular and cellular events that involve coordinated effects of autocrine, paracrine, and endocrine factors. Analysis of the transcriptosome of the endometrium during the implantation window using microarray technology has revealed numerous genes that are up- and down-regulated during the “window of implantation” when compared with late proliferative phase endometrium ( 4 , 21 ). In particular, transcription factors such as the homeobox (HOX) genes are essential for endometrial receptivity by mediating some functions of the sex steroids. HOXA10- and HOXA11-deficient mice have uterine factor infertility due to an implantation defect ( 22 , 23 ). Both HOXA10 and HOXA11 mRNAs are expressed in human endometrial epithelial and stromal cells; their expression is upregulated by estrogen and progesterone, and is significantly higher in the mid- and late-secretory phases, coinciding with time of embryo implantation ( 24 , 25 ). As transcription factors, HOX genes regulate other downstream target genes specific to the implantation window, including pinopodes, β3 integrin and insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1), leading to the proper development of the endometrium and receptivity to implantation ( 26 ). Other growth factors, cytokines, and transcription factors produced by the endometrium also assist in the establishment of endometrial receptivity ( 26 , 27 ). Impaired endometrial receptivity is considered to be a major limiting factor for the establishment of a pregnancy. Implantation during this time of uterine receptivity is associated with high (85%) success rate for continuing a pregnancy, whereas implantation after cycle day 25 has a much lower success rate (11%) ( 28 ). IMPLANTATION Pregnancy-related proteins can be found in maternal circulation shortly after fertilization. For example, platelet activating factor (PAF)-like substance, which is produced by the fertilized ovum, is present almost immediately ( 29 - 32 ). After ovulation and fertilization, the embryo remains in the ampullary portion
