Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


factor (PAF)-like substance, which is produced by the fertilized ovum, is present almost immediately ( 29 - 32 ). After ovulation and fertilization, the embryo remains in the ampullary portion of the fallopian tube for up to 3 days. The embryo undergoes a sequence of cell divisions and differentiation that is not dependent on the hormonal milieu of the fallopian tube or the uterus, as fertilization and early embryonic development occur successfully in vitro. The developing conceptus travels toward the uterus, through the isthmic portion of the tube, for approximately 10 hours, and then enters the uterus as an embryo at the 2- to 8-cell stage ( 33 , 34 ). With further development, between 3-6 days after fertilization, the embryo becomes a blastocyst floating unattached in the endometrial cavity ( 34 ). A schematic representation of the pre-implantation phase of pregnancy is shown in Figure 2 . Before implantation, the blastocyst also secretes specific substances that enhance endometrial receptivity. Successful implantation requires precise synchronization between blastocyst development and endometrial maturation. Indeed, there appears to be a cross-talk between the embryo and the endometrium with the endometrium acting as a biosensor that is able to respond favorably to competent embryos but less favorably to incompetent poorly viable embryos destined to fail ( 35 ). Ultimately, implantation failure is the result of impaired embryo developmental competence or impaired endometrial receptivity, both having negative effects on the embryo-endometrium cross-talk. It is estimated that embryos account for one third of implantation failures, while suboptimal endometrial receptivity and aberrant embryo-endometrial cross-talk are responsible for the remaining two-thirds ( 36 ). Figure 2. A diagrammatic summary of the ovarian cycle leading to embryo development as it occurs during the first week after fertilization. (Adapted from ( 37 ), with permission) To date, little information exists regarding regulation of steroid production in the embryo. The early embryo and its surrounding cumulus cells secrete detectable estradiol and progesterone well before the time of implantation ( 38 , 39 ). Mechanical removal of these cells results in the cessation of steroid secretion, while return of the removed cells through co-culture results in restoration of steroid secretion ( 38 ). Given this finding, steroid production by the conceptus is thought to be negligible by the time it has reached the endometrial cavity, since it is gradually denuded of cumulus cells as it travels through the fallopian tube. Conceptus-secreted progesterone
