Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


thought to be negligible by the time it has reached the endometrial cavity, since it is gradually denuded of cumulus cells as it travels through the fallopian tube. Conceptus-secreted progesterone may itself affect tubal motility as the conceptus is carried to the uterus ( 40 ). Progesterone, by action mediated through catecholamines and prostaglandins (PG), is believed to relax utero-tubal musculature. Moreover, progesterone is thought to be important in tubal-uterine transport of the embryo to the uterine cavity, since receptors for progesterone are found in highest concentrations in the mucosa of the distal one third of the fallopian tube. Estradiol, also secreted by these structures, may balance the progesterone effect so as to maintain the desired level of tubal motility and tone ( 40 ). Progesterone antagonizes estrogen-augmented uterine blood flow through depletion of estrogen receptors in the cytoplasm ( 41 ). Likewise, estrogen and progesterone also appear to balance one another in the maintenance of blood flow at the implantation site. Both estrogen and progesterone are known to upregulate the expression of multiple angiogenic factors in the uterus, including VEGF, bFGF, PDGF, and TGF-β ( 42 ). It is well known that estrogen stimulates an increase in uterine angiogenesis, blood flow and vasodilation by acting both directly on endothelial cells, and/or indirectly on other endometrial cell types via numerous potential promoters ( 43 ). In pregnant baboons and sheep, estrogen stimulated uterine and placental blood flow ( 44 ). Estrogen treatment significantly increased the paracellular cleft width between endometrial endothelial cells within 6 h considered to result in the increased vascular permeability associated with estrogen administration ( 45 ). Unlike estrogen, the angiogenic effects of progesterone in the uterus are believed to occur without concurrent vasodilation ( 46 ), as there was no change in endometrial endothelial paracellular cleft width 6 h after progesterone treatment in baboons ( 45 ). However, much is still unknown regarding uterine blood flow regulation in pregnancy and how the implanting embryo may influence this process. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) is detectable in the blastomeres of 6- to 8-cell embryos; however, it is not detectable in blastocyst culture media until the 6th day ( 47 - 49 ). After implantation is initiated, the embryo is actively secreting hCG, which can be detected in maternal serum as early as the 8th day after ovulation. However, due to the absence of direct
