Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


is initiated, the embryo is actively secreting hCG, which can be detected in maternal serum as early as the 8th day after ovulation. However, due to the absence of direct vascular communication, secretion of hCG into the maternal circulation is initially limited ( 50 ). The primary role of hCG is to prolong the biosynthetic activity of the corpus luteum, which allows continued progesterone production and maintenance of the gestational endometrium. As implantation progresses, the conceptus continues to secrete hCG and other pregnancy-related proteins, and resumes detectable steroid production ( 38 , 39 , 51 ). Termed trophectoderm (aka outer cell mass), blastomeres lining the periphery of the blastocyst are destined to form the placenta and can be identified at 5 days post-fertilization. The main structural and functional units of the placenta are the chorionic villi, which increase significantly in number during the first trimester of pregnancy. The structure of the chorionic villi is pictured in Figure 3 . The villous structure provides a tremendous absorptive surface area to facilitate exchange between the maternal and fetal circulation. The maternal blood arrives from the spiral arteries and circulates through the intervillous space. Fetal blood moves in the core of the chorionic villi within the villous vessels; thus, fetal and maternal blood is never mixed in this system. The key cells inside the chorionic villi are the cytotrophoblasts. They have the ability to proliferate, invade and migrate or to differentiate, through aggregation and fusion, to form a syncytial layer of multi-nucleate cells lining the placental villi, known as the syncytiotrophoblasts. By 10 days post-fertilization, 2 distinct layers of invading trophoblasts have formed. The inner layer, the cytotrophoblasts, is composed of individual, well-defined and rapidly dividing cells. The outer layer, the syncytiotrophoblasts, is a thicker layer comprised of a continuous cell mass lacking distinct cell borders. Syncytiotrophoblasts line the fetal side of the intervillous space opposite the decidualized endometrium of the maternal side. Immunohistochemically, cytotrophoblasts stain for hypothalamic-like protein hormones: gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH), corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH), and thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) ( 52 - 64 ). Juxtaposed syncytotrophoblasts stain immunohistochemically for the corresponding pituitary-like peptide hormones: human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG; analogous to pituitary luteinizing hormone, LH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and human chorionic thyrotropin (hCT). Anatomically, this arrangement suggests that these 2 layers mirror the paracrine relationship of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis ( 52 - 64 ). Syncytiotrophoblasts, the principal site of placental
