Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


chorionic thyrotropin (hCT). Anatomically, this arrangement suggests that these 2 layers mirror the paracrine relationship of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis ( 52 - 64 ). Syncytiotrophoblasts, the principal site of placental steroid and protein hormone biosynthesis, have a large surface area and line the intervillous space which exposes them directly to maternal bloodstream without the vascular endothelium and basement membrane which separates them from the fetal circulation ( Figure 3 - 5 ). This anatomic arrangement explains why placental proteins are secreted almost exclusively into the maternal circulation in concentrations much higher than those in the fetus ( 65 ). The syncytiotrophoblast layer contains the abundant subcellular machinery characteristic of cells primarily responsible for hormone synthesis. Amino acids of maternal origin are assembled into pro-hormones. Pro-hormones are then packaged into early secretory granules and transferred across the trophoblastic cell membranes as mature granules. Mature granules become soluble as circulating hormones in maternal blood as they pass through the intervillous space ( 65 ). Figure 3. A. A depiction of a blastocyst implanting in the uterus. B. A longitudinal section of a chorionic villus at the feto-maternal interface at about 10 weeks' gestation. The villous serves as a bridge between maternal and fetal compartments. C. Human placental ultra-structure seen in cross section. Syncytiotrophoblasts line the fetal surface of the intervillous space and interact with the maternal blood supply to secrete placental hormones directly into the circulation. Decidua lines the maternal surface of the intervillous space and secretes protein hormones. (From ( 66 ), with permission) DECIDUA AND DECIDUAL HORMONES The decidua is the endometrium of pregnancy. Decidualized endometrium is a site of maternal steroid and protein biosynthesis that relates directly to the maintenance and protection of the pregnancy from immunologic rejection. For instance, decidual tissue secretes cortisol, and in combination with hCG and progesterone secreted by the conceptus, cortisol produced by the decidua acts to suppress the maternal immune response conferring the immunologic privilege required by the implanting conceptus ( 67 , 68 ). Decidual Prolactin Decidual prolactin is a peptide hormone having chemical and biological properties identical to pituitary prolactin ( 69 ). Prolactin, derived from decidualized endometrium, is first detectable in the endometrium at a time corresponding to implantation-cycle day 23. Progesterone is known to induce decidual prolactin secretion ( 70 ). Scant decidual prolactin enters the fetal or maternal circulation after it is transported across the fetal membranes from
