Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


23. Progesterone is known to induce decidual prolactin secretion ( 70 ). Scant decidual prolactin enters the fetal or maternal circulation after it is transported across the fetal membranes from the adherent decidua and is released into the amniotic fluid ( 71 ). Unaffected by bromocriptine administration, decidual production of prolactin takes place independent of dopaminergic control ( 69 ). Decidual prolactin secretion rises in parallel with the gradual rise in maternal serum prolactin seen until 10 weeks’ gestation, then it rises rapidly until 20 weeks, and falls as term approaches ( 72 ). Decidua-derived prolactin serves to regulate fluid and electrolyte flux through fetal membranes by reducing permeability of the amnion in the fetal-to-maternal direction ( 69 - 71 , 73 - 77 ). Circulating prolactin in the fetus is secreted by the fetal pituitary gland, while prolactin found in the maternal circulation is secreted by the maternal pituitary gland under the influence of estrogens. Unlike decidual prolactin, these circulating levels are both suppressed by maternal ingestion of bromocriptine. Decidual Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding Protein-1 (IGFBP-1) IGF binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) is a peptide hormone that originates from decidual stromal cells. In non-pregnant women, circulating IGFBP-1 does not change during cycling of the endometrium, while IGFBP-3 is the main circulating IGFBP. During pregnancy, however, there is a several-fold increase in serum IGFBP-1 levels that begins during the first trimester, peaks during the second trimester, and falls briefly only to peak a second time before term ( 78 ). IGFBP-1 inhibits the binding of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) to receptors in the decidua and inhibits fetal growth. Newborn birth weight correlates directly with maternal IGF-1 levels, and inversely with circulating IGFBP-1 levels ( 79 ). Progesterone-Associated Endometrial Protein (PAEP) Previously known as pregnancy protein-14, PAEP is a glycoprotein hormone synthesized by secretory and decidualized endometrium that is detectable around cycle day 24 ( 80 ). In serum, it rises sharply around cycle day 22 to 24, reaching its peak value at the onset of menstruation; if pregnancy occurs, levels remain high ( 81 ). In pregnancy, PAEP rises in parallel with hCG ( 78 ). Like hCG, PAEP is thought to have immunosuppressant properties in pregnancy ( 80 ). PAEP levels are often low in those patients with conditions, such as ectopic pregnancy, in which there is little decidual tissue produced ( 82 ). PROLONGATION OF CORPUS LUTEUM FUNCTION Primary steroid
