Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


are often low in those patients with conditions, such as ectopic pregnancy, in which there is little decidual tissue produced ( 82 ). PROLONGATION OF CORPUS LUTEUM FUNCTION Primary steroid products of the corpus luteum are progesterone, 17β-progesterone, estradiol and androstenedione. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol is the main precursor responsible for corpus luteum progesterone production ( 83 ). Between 6- and 7-weeks’ gestation, corpus luteum function naturally begins to decline. During this luteal-placental transition period, production of progesterone shifts to the developing placenta ( Figure 4 ). Pulsatile pituitary LH secretion in the early luteal phase followed by hCG secreted from the implanting conceptus act to stimulate progesterone production from the corpus luteum. Removal of the corpus luteum before 6 weeks of gestation increases the risk of abortion (67a). Thus, regarding early pregnancy, progesterone is considered the most important steroid product in this group because progesterone alone can maintain a pregnancy that would otherwise abort in a lutectomized woman ( 84 ). For example, exogenous progesterone, given to an agonadal woman pregnant through egg-donor in vitro fertilization (IVF), maintains the pregnancy through the first trimester until placental progesterone secretion is established ( 85 ). For this reason, in patients with corpus luteum dysfunction or in whom the corpus luteum has been removed surgically, supplementation with exogenous progesterone is frequently initiated and extended beyond approximately 10 weeks of gestation, the critical period of the luteal-placental shift. Figure 4. A shift in progesterone production from the corpus luteum to the placenta occurs at approximately the 7th to 9th week of gestation. The small, shaded area represents the estimated duration of this functional transition. (From ( 86 ), with permission) In women with first-trimester threatened abortion, progesterone concentrations at the time of initial evaluation are often predictive of ultimate outcome ( 87 ). Abortion will occur in approximately 80% of those with progesterone concentrations under 10 ng/mL; viable pregnancies are virtually never observed at concentrations of <5.0 ng/mL ( 88 ). Corpus Luteum Relaxin Relaxin is a peptide hormone produced by the corpus luteum, and not detected in non-pregnant women or men. Although it is argued that the corpus luteum is the sole source of relaxin in pregnancy, it has also been identified in the placenta, decidua and chorion ( 89 - 91 ). The maternal serum concentrations of relaxin rise during the first trimester, when the corpus luteum is dominant, and decline
