Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


in the placenta, decidua and chorion ( 89 - 91 ). The maternal serum concentrations of relaxin rise during the first trimester, when the corpus luteum is dominant, and decline in the second trimester. Interestingly, when women with a normal pregnancy were compared with pregnant women using egg donor (therefore, no corpus luteum), relaxin was only identified in the women with a pregnancy derived from her own eggs. However, the duration of pregnancy and labor outcomes were not different between the two groups ( 92 ). The presence of relaxin suggests that it may play a role in early pregnancy, but its function is still unclear. In animals, relaxin softens (ripens) the cervix, inhibits uterine contractions, and relaxes the pubic symphysis ( 93 ). These changes are similar to those seen during human labor. Additionally, in vitro studies of human cervical stromal cells have shown that relaxin induces changes consistent with cervical ripening ( 94 , 95 ). Human relaxin primarily binds to relaxin receptors in the decidua and chorionic cytotrophoblasts ( 96 ). Relaxin, originating in the decidua and binding to its receptors in the fetal membranes, increases cytokine levels that can activate matrix metalloproteinases and lead to rupture of fetal membranes and labor ( 97 ). Thus, relaxin may play a facilitatory role in labor, however its role is still not clearly defined. PLACENTAL COMPARTMENT Unique to mammals, the placenta plays a major role in balancing fetal growth and development with maternal homeostasis. The fetus develops in an environment where respiration, alimentation and excretory functions are provided by the placenta. The human placenta is hemochorial, which means the chorion is in direct contact with maternal blood. Cyto- and syncytiotrophoblast cells of the placenta have direct access to the maternal circulation. In contrast, the trophoblast layer prevents most maternal hormones from entering the fetal compartment, and consequently the fetal/placental endocrine system generally develops and functions independently of that of the mother. Over time, the placenta has evolved as a system through which viviparity or livebirth could take place with dependable success. The placenta functions, to some extent, as a hypothalamic-pituitary-end organ-like entity owing to the inherent ability of this type of system, with its stimulatory and inhibitory feedback mechanisms, to dynamically regulate factors that affect fetal growth and development under a variety of conditions. In the fully developed hypothalamic-pituitary-end organ schema of humans, neural inputs to the hypothalamus serve
