Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


to dynamically regulate factors that affect fetal growth and development under a variety of conditions. In the fully developed hypothalamic-pituitary-end organ schema of humans, neural inputs to the hypothalamus serve to regulate the secretion of hypothalamic releasing hormone peptides. However, in the placenta there are no such direct neural inputs, and the exact mechanism(s) responsible for regulation of the secretion of hypothalamic-like placental peptides is unknown. Changes in maternal hormone concentrations play a critical role in modulating the metabolic and immunologic changes required for successful outcome in pregnancy. The fetus and placenta produce and secrete steroids and peptides into the maternal circulation as well as stimulate maternal hormone production. The origins and amounts of the fetal and placental hormones secreted during pregnancy changes dramatically over the course of the gestational period. Some of the pregnancy-related protein hormones previously discussed are, in part, responsible for the altered steroid concentrations typical of pregnancy. Placental Steroid Hormones The placenta is a site of active steroidogenesis which depends on highly integrated and active interactions with both mother and fetus. This is consequent to an elegant complementary of enzymatic deficiencies between placental and fetal compartments ( Table 1 ). The placenta is characterized by significant aromatase, sulfatase, and 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 activities juxtaposed with a lack of P450C17 (17α-hydroxylase and 17/20 lyase) activity. Table 1. Enzymatic Limitations by Compartment View in own window Fetal Placental 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 17α-hydroxylase StAR protein 17/20 lyase 16α-hydroxylase PLACENTAL PROGESTERONE The placenta is the main source of progesterone during pregnancy. From the luteal phase to term, maternal progesterone levels rise six- to eight-fold. ( Figures 5 and 8 ) Although, progesterone originates almost entirely from the corpus luteum before 6 weeks' gestational age, its production shifts more to the placenta after the 7th week. Beyond 10 weeks, the placenta is the major definitive source of progesterone ( 51 , 98 ). While the placenta produces large amounts of progesterone, it has a limited capacity to synthesize cholesterol de novo ( Figure 7 ). Maternal cholesterol enters the trophoblasts in the form of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol which serves as the principal precursor for the biosynthesis of progesterone by the placenta ( 51 , 83 , 99 ). The fetal contribution of progesterone is negligible. This is evident as progesterone levels remain high even after fetal demise. In the non-human primate estrogen regulates placental progesterone production ( 100 ). Progesterone
