Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


contribution of progesterone is negligible. This is evident as progesterone levels remain high even after fetal demise. In the non-human primate estrogen regulates placental progesterone production ( 100 ). Progesterone concentrations are less than 1 ng/mL during the follicular phase of the normal menstrual cycle ( 101 , 102 ). However, in the luteal phase of cycles in which fertilization occurs, progesterone concentrations rise from about 1-2 ng/mL on the day of the LH surge to a plateau of approximately 10-35 ng/mL over the subsequent 7 days. Concentrations remain within this luteal-phase range from the 10th week from the last menstrual flow, and then show a sustained rise that continues until term ( Figure 5 ). At term, progesterone concentrations can range from 100-300 ng/mL ( 51 ). Most of the progesterone produced in the placenta enters the maternal circulation. Figure 5. Relative values of circulating concentrations (mean ±SEM) of progesterone and 17α-progesterone during the course of human pregnancy from fertilization to term. The data displayed demonstrates values before and after the luteinizing hormone (LH) surge. Gestational ages are calculated from last menstrual flow. (Adapted from ( 103 ), with permission) The human deciduas and fetal membranes also synthesize and metabolize progesterone ( 104 ). In this case, neither cholesterol nor LDL-cholesterol are significant substrates; pregnenolone sulfate may be the most important precursor. Progesterone has been shown to exert important functions in implantation and parturition to include promotion of endometrial decidualization; inhibition of smooth muscle contractility; decrease in prostaglandin (PG) formation, which helps maintain myometrial quiescence and prevent the onset of uterine contractions; and inhibition of immune responses like those involved in graft rejection. It is believed to work in concert with hCG and decidual cortisol to inhibit T-lymphocyte-mediated tissue rejection and confer immunologic privilege to the implanted conceptus and developing placenta ( 105 , 106 ). In animal models, progesterone extends the survival of transplanted human trophoblasts, and high intervillous concentrations of progesterone are of major importance in blocking the cellular immune rejection of the foreign antigens originating from the pregnancy ( 106 ). In addition to its roles in endometrial and myometrial function, progesterone also serves as a substrate for fetal adrenal gland production of glucocorticoids (cortisol) and mineralocorticoids (aldosterone) ( 107 ). This important function is consequent to the deficiency of 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3β-HSD) activity in the active fetal zone of the fetal adrenal gland. PLACENTAL 17α-HYDROXYPROGESTERONE
