Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


mineralocorticoids (aldosterone) ( 107 ). This important function is consequent to the deficiency of 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3β-HSD) activity in the active fetal zone of the fetal adrenal gland. PLACENTAL 17α-HYDROXYPROGESTERONE Like progesterone, during the first several weeks of gestation and through the time of the luteal-placental shift, 17α-hydroxyprogesterone concentrations primarily reflect the steroidogenic status of the corpus luteum ( 108 ). However, by the tenth week of gestation, 17 α-hydroxyprogesterone has returned to baseline levels, indicating that the placenta has little 17 α-hydroxylase activity. During the third trimester the placenta uses fetal D5-sulfoconjugated precursors to secrete increasing amounts of 17α-hydroxyprogesterone, and at this point the placenta becomes the major source of this hormone at term ( 108 ). Concentrations of 17α-hydroxyprogesterone are less than 0.5 ng/mL during the follicular phase of normal menstrual cycles. In cycles leading to pregnancy, 17α-hydroxyprogesterone concentrations rise to about 1 ng/ml on the day of the LH surge, decline slightly for about 1 day, and rise again over the subsequent 4-5 days reaching a level of 1-2 ng/ml. Concentrations then increase slightly to a mean of approximately 2 ng/ml (luteal phase levels) by the end of the 12th week. This level remains stable until a gestational age of about 32 weeks at which time it begins an abrupt, sustained rise at about 37 weeks to approximately 7 ng/ml, a level that persists until term ( 108 ) ( Figures 5 and 8 ). The rise in 17α-hydroxyprogesterone that begins at 32 weeks strongly correlates with the fetal maturational processes known to begin at this time. Hence, 17α-hydroxyprogesterone concentration exhibits a bimodal pattern in normal pregnancy. PLACENTAL 17β-ESTRADIOL The corpus luteum is the exclusive source of 17β-estradiol during the first 5-6 weeks of gestation. After the first trimester, the placenta is the major source of circulating 17β-estradiol ( 51 ). The rate of estrogen production and the level of circulating estrogens increase markedly during pregnancy. Concentrations of 17β-estradiol are less than 0.1 ng/mL during the follicular phase of the cycle and reach about 0.4 ng/mL during the luteal phase of normal menstrual cycles ( 101 ). Following fertilization, 17β-estradiol increases gradually to a range of 6-30 ng/mL at term ( 102 ) ( Figures 6 and 8 ). Because it is deficient in 17-hydroxylase enzyme activity and 17-20 desmolase (lyase) activity, the placenta is unable to convert progestogens to estrogens. Thus, the placenta relies on 19-carbon
