Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


8 ). Because it is deficient in 17-hydroxylase enzyme activity and 17-20 desmolase (lyase) activity, the placenta is unable to convert progestogens to estrogens. Thus, the placenta relies on 19-carbon androgen precursors produced by the fetal and maternal adrenal glands. Sources of estrogen biosynthesis by the maternal-fetal-placental unit are depicted in Figure 8 . The major source of fetal adrenal dihydroepiandrostenediene sulfate (DHEAS) is LDL-cholesterol circulating in the fetal blood. A minor source of fetal adrenal DHEAS is derived from pregnenolone secreted by the placenta. Twenty percent of fetal cholesterol is derived from the maternal compartment. Since amniotic fluid cholesterol levels are negligible, the main source of cholesterol is the fetal liver. As gestation advances, increasing quantities of 17β-estradiol are synthesized from the conversion of circulating maternal and fetal DHEAS by the placenta. At term, approximately equal amounts of estrogens are produced from circulating maternal DHEAS and fetal DHEAS ( 51 , 109 ). The fetal endocrine system is notable for extensive conjugation of steroids with sulfate. Consequently, the placenta relies on sulfatase activity to cleave sulfate conjugates in the fetal compartment. Naturally occurring placental sulfatase deficiency results in a low estrogen state in pregnancy ( 110 ). The cytochrome P450 aromatase enzyme is responsible for converting 19-carbon precursors to estrogen ( 111 ). The efficiency of this enzyme affords the fetus protection from virilization even in the presence of large amounts of aromatizable androgens. Figure 6. Relative values of circulating concentrations (mean ±SEM) of 17β-estradiol, estriol and estrone during the course of human pregnancy from fertilization to term. Data displayed demonstrate values before and after the luteinizing hormone (LH) surge. Gestational ages are calculated from last menstrual flow. (Adapted from ( 112 ), with permission) The vasodilatory function of estrogens in pregnancy are well described. In animal models, direct estrogen injection into the uterine arteries produces striking increases in blood flow. Without question, 17β-estradiol is the most potent estrogen in this role. Estriol and estrone, though less active, also produce this effect ( 113 ). Because the exposure of the utero-placental bed to direct estriol secretion is enormous, estriol may be the principal up-regulator of uterine blood flow. This may be the dominant role of estriol in human pregnancy ( 113 ). Estrogen regulated mechanisms may also allow the fetus to govern production and secretion of progesterone during the third trimester. In primates, estrogen regulates the biosynthesis of placental
