Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


( 113 ). Estrogen regulated mechanisms may also allow the fetus to govern production and secretion of progesterone during the third trimester. In primates, estrogen regulates the biosynthesis of placental progesterone by regulating the availability of LDL-cholesterol for conversion to pregnenolone and its downstream steroid products ( 114 ). Estrogens are also thought to contribute to mammary gland development and fetal adrenal gland function. PLACENTAL ESTRADIOL Estriol is first detectable in maternal serum at 9 weeks of gestation ( 51 , 109 , 115 , 116 ). This temporal relationship closely corresponds to the early stages of steroidogenic maturation in the fetal adrenal cortex ( 51 ). Hence, the continued production of estriol is dependent upon the presence of a living fetus. Concentrations of estriol are less than 0.01 ng/ml in non-pregnant women. First detectable at approximately 0.05 ng/ml by 9 weeks, estriol increases gradually to a range of approximately 10-30 ng/ml at term ( 51 , 98 , 115 , 117 ). Between 35- and 40-weeks gestational age, estriol concentrations increase sharply in a pattern that reflects a final surge of intrauterine steroidogenesis just prior to term ( Figures 6 and 8 ). Figure 7. Synthesis of estrogen and progesterone within and between the maternal, placental and fetal compartments. (Adapted from ( 118 ), with permission) The placenta lacks 16α-hydroxylase activity and consequently, estriol with its 16α-hydroxyl group, must be synthesized from an immediate fetal precursor. The fetal liver provides 16α-hydroxylation of DHEAS for placental estriol synthesis. Interestingly, hepatic 16α-hydroxylation activity disappears postnatally. Figure 8. Circulating maternal steroid hormone levels throughout early pregnancy. The first-trimester relationship of these steroid hormones to human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is shown. Progestogens Progesterone o--o--o- 17-a-hydroxyprogesterone -Δ-Δ-Δ- Estrogens 17-β-estradiol -□-□-□ Estriol -o-o-o- Estrone -x-x-x- Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) -Δ-Δ-Δ- (From ref. 89 , with permission) PLACENTAL ESTRONE For the first 4-6 weeks of pregnancy, estrone originates primarily from maternal sources such as the ovaries, adrenals, or peripheral conversion ( 102 ). Later, the placenta secretes increasing quantities of estrone from the conversion of circulating maternal and fetal DHEAS. The placenta continues to be the major source of circulating estrone for the remainder of the pregnancy ( 51 ). Estrone concentrations are less than 0.1 ng/mL during the follicular phase and may reach a maximum of 0.3 ng/mL during the luteal phase of a normal menstrual cycle. Following fertilization, estrone concentrations remain within the luteal
