Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


ng/mL during the follicular phase and may reach a maximum of 0.3 ng/mL during the luteal phase of a normal menstrual cycle. Following fertilization, estrone concentrations remain within the luteal phase range through weeks 6-10 of gestation ( 98 ). Subsequently there is a gradual increase to a wide range of 2-30 ng/ml at term ( 51 , 98 , 102 ) ( Figures 6 and 8 ). In the absence of fetal adrenal gland function, as in the case of anencephaly, maternal estrogen levels are extremely low, suggesting that the maternal contribution of DHEAS to total estrogen synthesis is negligible. Placental Protein Hormones As detailed previously, the placental cytotrophoblast-syncytiotrophoblast relationship mirrors the hypothalamic-pituitary system. The surface of the syncytiotrophoblast is in direct contact with maternal blood within the intervillous space, and consequently, placental proteins are preferentially secreted into the maternal compartment. Table 2 outlines the various peptides associated with the endocrinology of human pregnancy. Table 2. Pregnancy Specific Protein Hormones by Compartment View in own window Fetal Placental Maternal Alpha-fetoprotein Hypothalamic-like (cytotrophoblast) GnRH CRH TRH GHRH Somatostatin Pituitary-like (syncytiotrophoblast) hCG hGH ACTH hPL hCT Oxytocin Growth factors Inhibin Activin IGF-I/IGF-II Other proteins Pregnancy specific β1-glycoprotein PAPP-A Decidual derived -Prolactin -IGFBP-1 -PP14 Corpus luteum derived -Relaxin PLACENTAL PROTEINS: HYPOTHALAMIC-LIKE PROTEINS Placental Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Gonadotropin releasing hormone derived from the placenta is biologically and immunologically similar to the hypothalamic decapeptide GnRH ( 54 ). Gonadotropin releasing hormone activity has been localized to the cytotrophoblast cells along the outer surface of the syncytiocytotrophoblast layer. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) has been localized to the adjacent syncytiocytotrophoblast layer. GnRH production peaks at about 8 weeks’ gestation and then decreases as the pregnancy advances in gestational age ( 54 - 57 ). Furthermore, GnRH levels parallel those of hCG in both the placenta and maternal circulation ( 57 ). Placental GnRH stimulates hCG release through a dose-dependent, paracrine mechanism ( 119 ). There is little augmentation of hCG secretion by GnRH in first trimester placental culture, because hCG production is already close to maximum ( 57 ). In contrast, at mid-trimester there is a marked dose-dependent GnRH augmentation of hCG release in vitro, with this effect diminishing in the term placenta. Likely due to the low affinity of placental GnRH receptors and dilution effect of the maternal circulation, intravenous administration of GnRH during pregnancy does not increase serum hCG. Thus, it seems most
