Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


to the low affinity of placental GnRH receptors and dilution effect of the maternal circulation, intravenous administration of GnRH during pregnancy does not increase serum hCG. Thus, it seems most likely that locally produced placental GnRH is responsible for stimulation of placental hCG production via paracrine mechanisms ( 119 ). GnRH release is increased by estrogen, activin-A, insulin and prostaglandins, and inhibited by progesterone, inhibin, follistatin and endogenous opiates ( 120 ). Placental Corticotrophin Releasing Hormone (CRH) Placental CRH is structurally similar to the hypothalamic peptide, CRH ( 121 , 122 ). Due to this similarity, it is easily measured in amniotic fluid as well as fetal and maternal plasma. Pro-CRH mRNA is present in cytotrophoblasts ( 123 ). CRH is also intensely immunoreactive in the decidua ( 53 ). CRH is found in maternal serum at low levels during the first and second trimesters of uncomplicated pregnancies, but rises dramatically in the third trimester of normal gestations or earlier if there are pregnancy complications resulting from such factors as prematurity, diabetes, or hypertension.( 124 ). The highest levels of CRH are found at labor and delivery. Although concentrations of CRH in fetal plasma are lower than those found in maternal plasma, there exists a significant correlation between maternal and fetal plasma CRH ( 124 ). There is a 3-fold rise, in amniotic fluid CRH between the second and third trimester ( 124 , 125 ). Placenta-derived CRH stimulates placental ACTH release in a dose-dependent manner in vitro ( 126 , 127 ). Corticotrophin releasing hormone and ACTH are both released into fetal and maternal circulation; their activity is moderated by maternal CRH binding proteins ( 124 ). Placental CRH participates in the surge of fetal glucocorticoids associated with late third trimester fetal maturation ( 124 , 126 , 128 ). When uterine blood flow is restricted, secretion of both CRH and ACTH is increased. Corticotrophin releasing hormone is a potent utero-placental vasodilator ( 129 , 130 ). Corticotrophin releasing hormone is released into the fetal circulation in response to fetal stress and in conditions leading to fetal growth restriction ( 131 - 133 ). High circulating maternal CRH is believed to be responsible for the elevated plasma ACTH and cortisol found in pregnancy, which renders them unresponsive to feedback suppression of plasma cortisol ( 124 - 126 , 128 , 134 ). Corticotrophin releasing hormone stimulates prostaglandin synthesis in
