Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


cortisol found in pregnancy, which renders them unresponsive to feedback suppression of plasma cortisol ( 124 - 126 , 128 , 134 ). Corticotrophin releasing hormone stimulates prostaglandin synthesis in fetal membranes and placenta. In pre-eclampsia, fetal asphyxia, premature labor, and other conditions leading to fetal growth restriction CRH is frequently elevated ( 131 - 133 ). Placental Thyrotropin Releasing Hormone Thyrotropin releasing hormone is found in the cytotrophoblast layer; however, this molecule is different from the tripeptide produced by the hypothalamus ( 135 ). It is localized primarily in the syncytiotrophoblast but also in the fetal and maternal blood vessels as well as in the extravillous trophoblast. The concentration of TRH is higher in the fetal circulation, which is likely due rapid protease degradation on the maternal side ( 136 ). Since hCG is regarded as the principal placenta-derived thyroid stimulator, a significant role for TRH is uncertain, although it may be involved in thyroid function regulation during fetal life ( 137 ). Placental Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone (GHRH) GHRH has also been identified in the human placenta, but its cellular localization and function are unknown ( 126 ). Its structure is identical to that of the hypothalamic GHRH peptide. The levels of placental GHRH do not contribute to maternal circulating levels of the extra villous the presence of GHRH receptor in the placenta GHRH does not regulate placental growth hormone production. Somatostatin (SRIF) Somatostatin (SRIF) is a peptide that exerts a variety of regulatory actions interacting with G protein-coupled receptors. Placental somatostatin has been found in early pregnancy villi, cytotrophoblast and in the decidua; while its binding sites have been identified in term placental membranes and cytotrophoblast ( 64 , 138 , 139 ). The amount of placental somatostatin decreases with increasing gestation and it does not contribute to maternal circulating levels of the peptide. The role of placental somatostatin remains unclear. PLACENTAL PROTEINS: PITUITARY-LIKE HORMONES Placental Human Chrorionic Gonadotropin (hCG) Human chorionic gonadotropin is a glycoprotein structurally similar to follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). It is similar to luteinizing hormone (LH) in action. As is true of the other glycoprotein hormones, hCG is composed of 2 non-identical subunits that associate non-covalently ( 52 , 140 ). The α subunit consists of an amino acid sequence essentially identical to and shared with the other pituitary glycoprotein hormones. On the other hand,
