Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


hCG-secreting trophoblastic tissues. In vivo, the release of hCG has been correlated with the widths of trophoblast tissue from 4 to 20 weeks and with placental weight from 20 to 38 weeks, respectively ( 57 ). The rapidly rising hCG seen between 3-4 and 9-10 weeks’ gestation coincides with the proliferation of immature trophoblastic villi and the extent of the syncytial layer ( 57 ). As expected, declining hCG levels are associated with a relative reduction in the mass of the syncytiotrophoblast and cytotrophoblast tissue. From 20-22 weeks until term a gradual increase in dimeric hCG corresponds with a similar increase in placental weight and villus volume ( 57 ). Thus, in early gestation rising hCG levels reflect the histological finding of a rapidly proliferating and increasingly invasive placenta. Later in pregnancy, declining hCG levels are associated with a relative reduction in the number and mass of trophoblasts; therefore, hCG levels mirror the placenta's morphologic transformation from an organ of invasion to an organ of transfer ( 57 ). Levels of the β subunit of hCG mirror those of dimeric hCG. The α subunit, undetectable until around 6 weeks' gestation, rises in a sigmoid fashion to reach peak levels at 36 weeks. Levels of the individual subunits are very low relative to dimeric hCG; they are approximately 2,000-fold to 150-fold less than dimeric forms at 6 and 35 weeks, respectively) ( 57 ). With respect to the regulation of hCG production and secretion, hCG secretion appears to be related to placental GnRH release ( 119 ). In vitro, hCG is released in pulses at a frequency and amplitude that correlate with the release of placental GnRH ( 119 ). In addition, hCG production is stimulated by glucocorticoids and suppressed by DHEAS ( 126 ). In vitro, cyclic AMP (cAMP) analogues augment hCG secretion. In humans, similar to pituitary secretion of gonadotropins, decidual inhibin and prolactin inhibit hCG production by term trophoblasts whereas decidua-derived activin augments it ( 140 , 141 ), with stimulation by estrogen and a negative feedback by progesterone. Human chorionic gonadotropin, the primary luteotropic factor involved in supporting and maintaining the corpus luteum, ensures the continuous secretion of progesterone until the placenta can perform this function ( 142 ). It has immunosuppressive properties, likely involving maternal T-lymphocyte function and it possesses thyrotropic activity ( 143 ). Human chorionic gonadotropin may stimulate steroidogenesis in the early fetal testes
