Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


142 ). It has immunosuppressive properties, likely involving maternal T-lymphocyte function and it possesses thyrotropic activity ( 143 ). Human chorionic gonadotropin may stimulate steroidogenesis in the early fetal testes resulting in virilization and sexual differentiation in males ( 144 , 145 ). The functions of hCG are summarized in Figure 9 . Figure 9. The physiological roles of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) during the course of human pregnancy from fertilization to term. (Adapted from ( 146 ), with permission) Placental Growth Hormone (GH) Growth hormone is a single-chain peptide hormone structurally related to prolactin and human chorionic somatomammotropin (hCS). Up to the first 15-20 weeks of pregnancy, pituitary growth hormone (GH) is the main form present in the maternal circulation. From 15-20 weeks to term, placental GH gradually replaces pituitary GH, which eventually becomes undetectable ( 147 - 151 ). In contrast to the pulsatile output of pituitary GH, the daily profile of placental GH release is non-pulsatile ( 150 ). Syncytiotrophoblasts directly bathing in maternal blood are the site of placental GH synthesis. This cell layer is the placental site of the major glucose transporter, Glut1, and responds to rapid variations in maternal blood glucose levels by modifying placental GH secretion ( 152 , 153 ). The rate of secretion of pituitary GH is known to change rapidly, depending on the net result of multiple stimulatory and inhibitory input. The regulation of placental GH is quite different. The rate of synthesis of placental GH, and thus the maternal circulating levels, increases with the growth of the placenta ( 154 ). Growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) does not modulate placental GH expression in vitro, in vivo, or in the presence of glucose ( 155 , 156 ). Figure 10 shows both the stimulatory and inhibitory mediators of maternal pituitary GH output, including the influence of placental growth hormone. Production of maternal insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-I) is regulated by placental growth hormone. IGF-1 concentrations in the maternal plasma, studied in a large number of pregnancies, correlate with the corresponding placental GH. The IGF-1 levels do not vary significantly during the first weeks of gestation, but then increase gradually from 165 ±44.5 mg/L at about 24-25 weeks' gestation, and reach levels of 330.5 ±63.5 mg/L in a manner similar to the increases seen in placental GH. It should be noted that circulating maternal IGF-I levels also reflect placental IGF-I secretion. This
