Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


of 330.5 ±63.5 mg/L in a manner similar to the increases seen in placental GH. It should be noted that circulating maternal IGF-I levels also reflect placental IGF-I secretion. This growth factor, however, does not appear to be strongly expressed in human placenta; in particular; it is not expressed in the syncytiotrophoblast cell layer ( 157 ). The biologic activities of GH and related peptide hormones can be classified into two general categories: somatogenic and lactogenic. Somatogenic activities are related to linear bone growth and alterations in carbohydrate metabolism ( 158 , 159 ). The primary function of GH is to protect nutrient availability for the fetus. Via local and hepatic IGF-1, placental GH stimulates gluconeogenesis and lipolysis in the maternal compartment. Figure 10. Shown is a representation of the hypothalamic-growth hormone-IGF-I axis, with details of its modification during pregnancy. A. In the non-pregnant state, pituitary GH secretion is regulated through hypothalamic control. Pituitary GH regulates the secretion of IGF-I, which, in turn, exerts negative feedback action on GH at the hypothalamic-pituitary level. B. During the latter half of pregnancy, the GH-IGF axis is inhibited by large amounts of estrogen. The large increase in placental GH exerts an inhibitory effect on GH secretion mediated by placental GH on the hypothalamus and pituitary. (From ( 160 ), with permission) Placental Human Placental Lactogen (hPL), [Human Chorionic Somatomammotropin (hCS)] Human placental lactogen is a single-chain polypeptide with two intramolecular disulfide bridges. The structures of hPL, prolactin, and growth hormone are very similar. Eighty-five percent of its amino acids are identical to human pituitary growth hormone and human pituitary prolactin ( 69 , 161 ). Furthermore, hPL shares biologic properties with both growth hormone and prolactin ( 69 , 161 ). Thus, it has primarily lactogenic activity but also exhibits some growth hormone-like activity; therefore, it is also referred to as chorionic growth hormone (hCGH) or human chorionic somatomammotropin (hCS). Human placental lactogen is secreted from the syncytiotrophoblast cell layer. Unlike hCG concentrations, levels of hPL rise with advancing gestational age and plateau at term. Human placental lactogen is first detectable during the fifth week of gestation, and rises throughout pregnancy maintaining a constant hormone weight to placenta weight relationship ( 162 ). Concentrations reach their highest levels during the third trimester, rising from approximately 3.5 µg/mL to 25 µg/mL at term ( 162 ). Although the level of hPL in serum at
