Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


Concentrations reach their highest levels during the third trimester, rising from approximately 3.5 µg/mL to 25 µg/mL at term ( 162 ). Although the level of hPL in serum at term is the highest of all placenta-derived protein hormones, its clearance from the circulation is so rapid that it cannot be detected after the first post-partum day. Since hPL is secreted primarily into the maternal circulation, most of its functions occur at sites of action in maternal tissues. Human placental lactogen is thought to be responsible for the marked rise in maternal plasma IGF-1 concentrations as the pregnancy approaches term ( 162 - 164 ). Human placental lactogen exerts metabolic effects during pregnancy via IGF-I. It is associated with insulin resistance, enhances insulin secretion which stimulates lipolysis, increases circulating free fatty acids, and inhibits gluconeogenesis; in effect, it antagonizes insulin action, induces glucose intolerance, as well as lipolysis and proteolysis in the maternal system ( 69 ). In response to fasting and glucose loading, hPL levels rise and fall ( 162 ). These metabolic effects favor the transport of ketones and glucose to the fetus in the fasting and fed states, respectively. Circulating levels of glucose and amino acids are reduced, while levels of free fatty acids, ketones, and triglycerides are increased. The secretion of insulin is augmented in response to a glucose load. The fuel requirements of the developing fetus are met primarily by glucose. It provides the energy needed for protein synthesis and serves as a precursor for the fat synthesis and glycogen formation. Fetal blood glucose levels are generally 10-20 mg/100 ml below those of the maternal circulation; thus, diffusion and facilitated transport favor the net movement of glucose from mother to fetus. Pregnancy is associated with profound alterations in maternal metabolism. The fetal-maternal relationship favors glucose use by the fetus and forces the maternal tissues to increase their use of alternative energy sources. The endocrine hallmark of this hormonal environment is insulin resistance. Several hormones prevalent during pregnancy are believed to responsible for this altered milieu: estrogens, progesterone, glucocorticoids, human placental lactogen (hPL) and placental GH. Additionally, placental cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) contribute to this metabolic state ( 165 ). Placental Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) Placental ACTH is structurally similar to pituitary ACTH ( 166 - 178 ). Under the paracrine influence of placental CRH released from proximal cytotrophoblasts, placental ACTH is secreted by
