Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


(ACTH) Placental ACTH is structurally similar to pituitary ACTH ( 166 - 178 ). Under the paracrine influence of placental CRH released from proximal cytotrophoblasts, placental ACTH is secreted by syncytiotrophoblasts into the maternal circulation ( 179 - 181 ). Circulating maternal ACTH is increased above non-pregnancy levels, but still remains within the normal range ( 182 , 183 ). Placental ACTH stimulates an increase in circulating maternal free cortisol that is resistant to dexamethasone suppression ( 179 , 182 ). Thus, relative hypercortisolism in pregnancy occurs despite high-normal ACTH concentrations. This situation is possible due to two main differences in endocrine relationships during pregnancy. First, the maternal response to exogenous CRH is blunted ( 182 ). Second, a paradoxical relationship exists between placental CRH, ACTH, and their end-organ product, cortisol; glucocorticoids augment placental CRH and ACTH secretion, not suppress it ( 127 , 180 ). This positive feedback mechanism allows an increase in glucocorticoid secretion in times of stress in excess of the amount necessary if the mother were not pregnant ( 127 ). Placental Human Chorionic Thyrotropin (hCT) Human chorionic thyrotropin is structurally similar to pituitary TSH, but it does not possess the common α subunit ( 135 ). The placental content of hCT is very small ( 58 ). Human chorionic gonadotropin possesses 1/4000 th of the thyrotropic activity of TSH, and is thought to exert a more significant effect on the maternal thyroid than does hCT ( 137 ), particularly in conditions with high hCG levels such as trophoblastic disease. PLACENTAL PROTEINS: GROWTH FACTORS Placental Inhibin/Activin/Follistatin Inhibin and activin are heterodimeric glycoproteins with the former comprised of an α and β subunit and the latter composed of two β subunits. Inhibin is secreted by the corpus luteum and is present in decidualized endometrium ( 184 , 185 ). Inhibin and activin dimers have been localized to the syncytiotrophoblast layer, but their individual subunits have been localized to both cytotrophoblasts and syncytiotrophoblasts ( 186 ). Inhibin begins to increase in the maternal circulation above non-pregnant levels by 12 days post-fertilization, dramatically increasing at about 5 weeks' gestation to peak at 8-10 weeks. Subsequently, levels decrease at 12-13 weeks and stabilize until around 30 weeks before they rise again as term approaches ( 185 ). The early fluctuations in inhibin levels reflect release from the corpus luteum, whereas the increase seen in the third trimester originates from the
