Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


again as term approaches ( 185 ). The early fluctuations in inhibin levels reflect release from the corpus luteum, whereas the increase seen in the third trimester originates from the placenta and decidua. After delivery, inhibin is undetectable. The inhibin A dimer is the principal bioactive inhibin secreted during pregnancy. Quantification of inhibin A is part of the prenatal quad screen that can be administered during pregnancy at a gestational age of 16–18 weeks. An elevated inhibin A (along with an increased beta-hCG , decreased AFP , and a decreased estriol ) is suggestive of the presence of a fetus with Down syndrome . Activin-A is the major trophoblastic activin product, which similarly increases in maternal circulation throughout pregnancy and peaks at term ( 187 ). Interestingly, higher levels of activin-A are found in mid-gestation in women with preeclampsia ( 188 , 189 ). Similar to their action in the ovarian follicle, inhibin and activin are regulators within the placenta for the production of GnRH, HCG, and steroids; as expected, activin is stimulatory and inhibin is inhibitory. Follistatin is the activin-binding protein expressed in placenta, membranes, and decidua ( 190 ). Since follistatin binds activin, it antagonizes the stimulatory effects of activin on placental steroid and peptide production. Placental Insulin-Like Growth Factors-I and II (IGF I and II) Without question, the most important site of IGF-I and IGF-II production is the placenta ( 191 ). IGF-I and IGF-II are involved in prenatal growth and development. These growth factors do not cross the placenta into the fetal circulation; however, they may be involved in placental growth ( 192 , 193 ). An increase in maternal IGF-I levels during pregnancy with a rapid decrease after delivery indicates a significant placental influence. There is however, no change in IGF-II levels throughout pregnancy. In animal studies, the IGF-I produced in the placenta regulates the transfer of nutrients across the placenta to the fetus and thus enhances growth. Interestingly, neonates with intrauterine growth restriction have reduced levels of IGF-I. IGF-II secreted by the placenta is also important in influencing β cell sensitivity to glucose and modulation of maternal insulin and glucose concentrations during pregnancy ( 194 ). Placental Soluble FMS-Like Tyrosine Kinase (SFLT-1) and Souble Endoglin (sENG) Soluble Flt-1 is a circulating splice variant of Flt-1, the receptor for VEGF and placental growth factor (PLGF), while sENG is the circulating receptor for transforming growth factor-β
