Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


Endoglin (sENG) Soluble Flt-1 is a circulating splice variant of Flt-1, the receptor for VEGF and placental growth factor (PLGF), while sENG is the circulating receptor for transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). VEGF, PLGF, TGF-β as well as other pro-angiogenic proteins are known to be essential for normal placental and fetal vascular development. Soluble Flt-1 and sENG are almost undetectable in the circulation of non-pregnant individuals, and are produced in large quantities by the placenta leading to marked elevation in their circulating levels during pregnancy which steadily rise until term ( 195 , 196 ). These two soluble receptors are increased in serum and placentas of preeclamptic women compared to normal pregnancies and their abnormal elevation presages the development of preeclampsia. Experimental evidence indicates that sENG cooperates with sFlt-1 to induce endothelial dysfunction in vitro and preeclampsia in vivo ( 197 ). It is thought that sFlt-1 and sENG neutralize their ligands, reducing the concentration of VEGF, PLGF, and TGF-b in maternal circulation, which results in a shift in the angiogenic balance towards anti-angiogenesis, which in turn leads to endothelial damage and the clinical onset of the syndrome. However, large prospective studies have failed to show sufficient accuracy of these biomarkers for clinical utility in preeclampsia prediction ( 198 , 199 ). PLACENTAL PEPTIDE HORMONES: OTHER PLACENTAL PEPTIDES In addition to the pregnancy-related proteins produced analogous to hypothalamic and pituitary glycoproteins, the placenta also produces several other proteins that have no known analogues in the non-pregnant state. These proteins have been isolated and identified from serum drawn during pregnancy or purified from placental tissue. Figure 11 shows the changes in concentration of each of these pregnancy-related proteins throughout gestation. Placental Pregnancy-Specific b1-Glycoprotein (SP1) Pregnancy-specific b1-glycoprotein is a glycoprotein hormone that can be detected about 18-23 days after ovulation. It is secreted from trophoblast cells ( 200 , 201 ). Initially, it exhibits a 2- to 3-day doubling time, reaching peak concentrations between 100-200 ng/mL at term. Pregnancy-specific b1-glycoprotein has immunosuppressive effects on T-lymphocyte proliferation, and is thought to be involved in preventing rejection of the implanting conceptus ( 202 ). Placental Pregnancy-Associated Plasma Protein-A (PAPP-A) Pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A is the largest of the pregnancy-related glycoproteins. It originates, mainly, from placental syncytiotrophoblasts ( 203 , 204 ). Pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A can first be detected at approximately 32-33 days after ovulation. With a 3-day doubling time, its levels initially rise rapidly, and then
