Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


( 203 , 204 ). Pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A can first be detected at approximately 32-33 days after ovulation. With a 3-day doubling time, its levels initially rise rapidly, and then continue to rise more slowly until term ( 203 ). Like SP-1 and hCG, PAPP-A is believed to play an immunosuppressive role in pregnancy ( 204 ). It has recently gained favor as a clinically useful, first-trimester screening marker for Down syndrome (trisomy 21). Authors have confirmed decreased PAPP-A levels in association with early pregnancy failure ( 205 ). However, when compared with serum hCG and progesterone measurements to evaluate the clinical usefulness of PAPP-A values in predicting the outcome of early pregnancy, hCG and progesterone remained the best clinical tools ( 206 ). Placental Protein-5 (PP5) This glycoprotein is produced by the syncytiotrophoblasts. It is detected beginning at 42 days after ovulation, and steadily rises until term ( 207 ). Placental protein-5 has anti-thrombin and anti-plasmin activities, and is believed to be a naturally occurring blood coagulation inhibitor active at the implantation site ( 208 ). Figure 11. Maternal serum concentrations of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and some other pregnancy-associated protein hormones (SP-1, PAPP-A, PP-5) throughout pregnancy. The timing of implantation, missed menses and parturition is shown to demonstrate the temporal relationships. (Modified from ( 209 ), with permission) PLACENTAL METABOLIC PROTEINS Placental Leptin Leptin is a key regulator of satiety and body mass index (BMI), and its levels are thought to reflect the amount of energy stores and nutritional state ( 210 ). The placenta is the principal source of leptin during pregnancy ( 211 ). Most of the leptin produced by the placenta is secreted into the maternal circulation, and as a consequence leptin levels are elevated during pregnancy. In the first trimester, maternal plasma leptin levels are double nonpregnant values and continue to increase during the second and third trimesters ( 212 - 214 ). In the second and third trimesters leptin is also expressed in the chorion and amnion ( 215 ). The amount of leptin directed to the fetus is uncertain, and its role in fetal development is also unclear. Leptin levels decline to normal nonpregnant levels within 24 hours after delivery ( 216 ). Interestingly, leptin levels during pregnancy do not correlate with BMI as they do in the nonpregnant state ( 217 ). Although not clear, it is thought that leptin may
