Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


). Interestingly, leptin levels during pregnancy do not correlate with BMI as they do in the nonpregnant state ( 217 ). Although not clear, it is thought that leptin may be utilized by the placenta to modulate maternal metabolism and partition energy supplies to the fetus ( 218 ). There is evidence that placental leptin is anti-apoptotic and promotes proliferation, protein synthesis and the expression of tolerogenic maternal response molecules such as HLA-G ( 219 ). Placental leptin expression is regulated by hCG, insulin, steroids, hypoxia and many other growth hormones, suggesting that it may have an important endocrine function in trophoblast cells ( 219 ). Additionally, the human placenta also expresses leptin receptors, and therefore can act in a paracrine manner to modulate placental function ( 220 , 221 ). Placental Ghrelin Ghrelin, is a gastric peptide isolated primarily from the stomach which is thought to stimulate GH release and participates in the regulation of energy homeostasis, increasing food intake, decreasing energy output, as well as exert a lipogenetic effect ( 222 ). Ghrelin and its receptors have been isolated in the placenta, clearly indicating a role for ghrelin in reproduction. Circulating ghrelin levels peak at mid-gestation, then with advancing gestational age declining ghrelin levels are observed. After delivery, near prepregnancy levels of ghrelin are seen ( 223 ). It is thought that ghrelin may well be involved in regulation of energy intake during pregnancy ( 224 ), however its exact role is still unknown. PLACENTAL MATURATION As pregnancy advances, the relative numbers of trophoblasts increase as feto-maternal exchange begins to dominate the placenta's secretory functions. Later, throughout the second and third trimester, the placenta adapts its structure to reflect its function such that near term, the villi consist mainly of fetal capillaries with sparse supporting stroma beyond that which is required to maintain its anatomic integrity. In contrast to the early placental villus where trophoblasts are abundant as part of a continuous layer of basal cytotrophoblasts, the term placenta's membranous interface between the fetal and maternal circulation is extremely thin ( 65 ). Thus, as the gestation progresses toward term, the number of cytotrophoblasts declines and the remaining syncytial layer becomes thin and barely visible. This structural arrangement facilitates transport of compounds across the feto-maternal interface. Consistent with the cytologic changes that occur in the maternal fetal interface from mid-gestation to term, striking changes in the global gene
