Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


facilitates transport of compounds across the feto-maternal interface. Consistent with the cytologic changes that occur in the maternal fetal interface from mid-gestation to term, striking changes in the global gene expression profile of this tissue has been demonstrated over this interval ( 225 ). FETAL COMPARTMENT The endocrine system, a system that is functional from the time of intrauterine existence through old age, is one of the first systems to develop during fetal life. As in the placenta, the regulation of the fetal endocrine system relies, to some extent, on precursors secreted by the other compartments. As the fetus develops, its endocrine system matures and eventually becomes more independent, preparing the fetus for extrauterine life. Fetal Hypothalamus and Pituitary By the end of the fifth week of gestation, the primitive hypothalamus can be identified as a swelling on the inner surface of the diencephalic neural canal ( 226 ). By the 9 th to 10 th week, the median eminence of the hypothalamus is evident. By week 14 to 16 the hypophysiotropic hormones GnRH, TRH, CRH, GHRH and somatostatin appear in the fetal hypothalamus ( 227 ) . The portal-vessel system that delivers the releasing hormones to the anterior pituitary is fully developed by 18 weeks of gestation ( 227 ). The anterior pituitary cells that develop from those cells lining Rathke's pouch are capable of secreting growth hormone (GH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), in vitro, as early as 7 weeks of fetal life ( Figure 12 ). Figure 12. Fetal serum pituitary hormone levels. PrL indicates prolactin; TSH, thyroid-stimulating hormone; ACTH, corticotropin; GH, growth hormone; LH/FSH, luteinizing hormone/follicle stimulating hormone. (Modified from ( 228 ), with permission) Fetal Thyroid Gland The fetal thyroid gland develops initially in the absence of detectable TSH. By 12 weeks’ gestation, the thyroid is capable of iodine-concentrating activity and thyroid hormone synthesis ( 226 ) . Prior to that time, the maternal thyroid appears to be the primary source for T 4 . The levels of TSH and T 4 are relatively low in fetal blood until mid-gestation. At 24-28 weeks' gestation, serum T 4 and reverse tri-iodothyronine (rT 3 ) concentrations begin to rise progressively until term while the TSH concentration peaks. At birth, there is an abrupt release of TSH, T 4 , and T 3 . The relative hyperthyroid state of the newborn is believed
