Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


while the TSH concentration peaks. At birth, there is an abrupt release of TSH, T 4 , and T 3 . The relative hyperthyroid state of the newborn is believed to facilitate thermoregulatory adjustments for extrauterine life. The function of the fetal thyroid hormones is crucial for somatic growth and neonatal adaptation. Fetal Gonads The internal genitalia in the embryo have the inherent tendency to feminize. The Wolffian (mesonephric) and Mullerian (paramesonephric) ducts are discrete primordia that temporarily coexist in all embryos during the ambisexual undifferentiated development period (up to 8 weeks). The critical factors in determining which of the duct structures stabilize or regress are the hormones secreted by the testes: Anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) and testosterone. The testis is histologically identifiable at 6 weeks’ gestation. Primary testis differentiation begins with development of the Sertoli cells at 8 weeks’ gestation. SRY, the sex-determining region on the Y chromosome, determines male gonadal sex and directs the differentiation of the Sertoli cell ( 229 ). Sertoli cells secrete AMH which triggers the resorption of the Mullerian ducts in males and prevents development of female internal structures ( 230 ). At approximately 8 weeks’ gestation Leydig cells differentiate and testosterone secretion commences. Maximum levels of fetal testosterone are observed at about 15 – 18 weeks and decrease thereafter. Differentiation of the ovaries occurs several weeks later than that of the testis. If the primordial germ cells lack the SRY region on the Y chromosome, ovaries develop from the indifferent gonads. Fetal ovarian function becomes apparent by 7 to 8 weeks gestation; the time when the ovary becomes morphologically recognizable. During this time ovarian differentiation is occurring with mitotic multiplication of germ cells, reaching 6-7 million oogonia, their maximal number, by 16-20 weeks’ gestation ( 231 , 232 ). The pattern of luteinizing hormone (LH) levels in fetal plasma parallels that of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). The decline in pituitary gonadotropin content, and plasma concentration of gonadotropins after mid-gestation is believed to result from the maturation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. The hypothalamus becomes progressively more sensitive to sex steroids originating from the placenta and circulating in fetal blood. Early secretion of fetal testosterone is important in initiating sexual differentiation in males. In the absence of testosterone, the Wolffian system regresses. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), supplemented by fetal LH, is believed to be the primary stimulus effecting the early development and growth of Leydig cells as
