Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


testosterone, the Wolffian system regresses. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), supplemented by fetal LH, is believed to be the primary stimulus effecting the early development and growth of Leydig cells as well as stimulating the subsequent peak of testosterone production. In females, the fetal ovary is involved primarily in the formation of follicles and germ cells and less involved in hormone secretion. Fetal Adrenal Glands The human fetal adrenal gland is a remarkable organ due to its incredible capacity for steroid biosynthesis in utero, and because of its unique morphologic features. The human fetal adrenals are disproportionately large, and at mid-pregnancy their size exceeds that of the fetal kidneys. At term, the adrenals are as large as those of adults, weighing 10 grams or more. The region that ultimately develops into the adult adrenal cortex, the outer or definitive zone, accounts for only about 15% of the fetal gland (Figure 13). The unique inner or fetal zone comprises 80-85% of the volume of the adrenal in utero, and is largely responsible for the tremendous secretory capacity of this organ. The fetal zone rapidly undergoes involution at parturition and by one year it has completely disappeared ( 233 ). Changes in the fetal adrenal volume throughout fetal life and into young adulthood are graphically depicted in Figure 14 . The adrenal function of 10 preterm infants of gestational age 27-34 weeks was assessed for up to 80 days after delivery. The changes in steroid excretion with time in preterm infants of gestation over 28 weeks reflect involution of the fetal adrenal zone at a similar rate to term infants. These findings are consistent with the removal at birth of the inhibitory effects of estrogen on the 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme. The continued function of the adrenal fetal zone beyond the first month in preterm infants of less than 28 weeks’ gestation may however be due to persistence of some other fetal regulatory adrenal mechanism. This suggests that it is gestation that determines fetal zone activity rather than birth ( 234 ). The fetal adrenal gland secretes large quantities of steroid hormones (up to 200-mg daily) near term. The rate of steroidogenesis is 5-times that observed in the adrenal glands of adults at rest. The principal steroids secreted are C-19 steroids (mainly DHEAS), which serve as substrates for estrogen biosynthesis by the placenta (Figure 13). The fetal adrenal gland contains a zone, unique
