Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


rest. The principal steroids secreted are C-19 steroids (mainly DHEAS), which serve as substrates for estrogen biosynthesis by the placenta (Figure 13). The fetal adrenal gland contains a zone, unique to in-utero fetal life that accounts for the rapid growth of the adrenal gland; this zone regresses during the first few weeks after birth. In addition to the fetal zone, an outer layer of cells forms the adrenal cortex (definitive zone). The fetal zone differs not only histologically, but also biochemically from the cortex (i.e., the fetal zone is deficient in 3b-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme activity and, therefore, secretes C-19 steroids (mainly DHEAS); the cortex secretes primarily cortisol). Figure 14. An illustration demonstrating generalized pathways for steroid hormone formation in the fetal adrenal gland. DHA: dehydroepiandrosterone. DHAS: dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. LDL: low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. (Modified from ( 235 ), with permission) Figure 15. Changes in the fetal adrenal volume throughout fetal life and into young adulthood. (Modified from ( 236 ), with permission) Research involving the fetal adrenal gland has attempted to determine the factors that stimulate and regulate fetal adrenal growth and steroidogenesis. Other work has focused on the mechanisms responsible for fetal zone atrophy after delivery. All investigations have shown that, in vitro, adrenocorticotropic (ACTH) stimulates steroidogenesis. Furthermore, there is clinical evidence that, in vivo, ACTH is the major trophic hormone of the fetal adrenal gland. For example, in anencephalic fetuses, the plasma levels of ACTH are very low and the fetal zone is markedly atrophic. Maternal glucocorticoid therapy suppresses fetal adrenal steroidogenesis by suppressing fetal ACTH secretion. Despite these observations, ACTH -related peptides, growth factors and other hormones have been proposed as possible trophic hormones for the fetal zone. After birth, the adrenal gland shrinks in size by more than 50% because of the regression of fetal zone cells. Fetal Parathyroid Glands and Calcium Homeostasis In the fetus, calcium concentrations are regulated by the movement of calcium across the placenta from the maternal compartment. In order to maintain fetal bone growth, the maternal compartment undergoes adjustments that provide a net transfer of sufficient calcium to the fetus. Maternal compartment changes that permit calcium accumulation include increases in maternal dietary intake, increases in maternal 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 levels, and increases in parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. The levels of total calcium and phosphorus decline in maternal serum, but ionized calcium levels remain unchanged. During pregnancy, the placenta forms a calcium pump
