Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


in parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. The levels of total calcium and phosphorus decline in maternal serum, but ionized calcium levels remain unchanged. During pregnancy, the placenta forms a calcium pump in which a gradient of calcium and phosphorus is established which favors the fetus. Thus, circulating fetal calcium and phosphorus levels increase steadily throughout gestation. Furthermore, fetal levels of total and ionized calcium, as well as phosphorus, exceed maternal levels at term. By 10-12 weeks' gestation, the fetal parathyroid glands secrete PTH. Fetal plasma levels of PTH are low during gestation, but increase after delivery. In contrast to the unchanged maternal calcitonin levels, the fetal thyroid gland produces increasing levels of calcitonin. Since there is no transfer of parathyroid hormone across the placenta, changes noted in fetal calcium levels are related to fetal changes in these hormones (PTH and calcitonin). These adaptations are consistent with the need to conserve calcium and stimulate bone growth within the fetus. After birth, neonatal serum calcium and phosphorus levels fall. Parathyroid hormone levels start to rise within 48 hours after birth. Calcium and phosphorus levels steadily increase over the following several days, with some dependence on dietary intake of milk. Fetal Endocrine Pancreas The pancreas’ exocrine function begins after birth, while the endocrine function (hormone release) can be measured from 10 to 15 weeks onward. The α-cells which contain glucagon, and the β-cells which contain somatostatin, can be recognized by 8 weeks’ gestation ( 234 ). Alpha cells are more numerous than β-cells in the early fetal pancreas and reach a peak at midgestaion; β-cells increase through the second half of gestation so that by term the ratio of α-cells to beta cells is approximately 1:1 ( 237 , 238 ). Human pancreatic insulin and glucagon concentrations increase with advancing fetal age, and are higher than concentrations found in the adult pancreas. In vivo studies of umbilical cord blood obtained at delivery and fetal scalp blood samples obtained at term show that fetal insulin secretion is low and tends to be relatively unresponsive to acute changes in glucose. In contrast, fetal insulin secretion in vitro is responsive to amino acids and glucagon as early as 14 weeks' gestation. In maternal diabetes mellitus, fetal islet cells undergo hypertrophy such that the rate of insulin secretion increases. Fetal Alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP) Alpha-fetoprotein is a glycoprotein synthesized first by the yolk sac, then the gastrointestinal tract, and lastly
