Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


cells undergo hypertrophy such that the rate of insulin secretion increases. Fetal Alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP) Alpha-fetoprotein is a glycoprotein synthesized first by the yolk sac, then the gastrointestinal tract, and lastly by the fetal liver ( 239 , 240 ). After entering the fetal urine, it is readily detected in amniotic fluid. Amniotic fluid AFP (afAFP) peaks between 10-13 weeks’ gestation, and then declines from 14-32 weeks. In the fetus, AFP peaks at 12-14 weeks and steadily decreases until term ( 241 ). The fall in fetal plasma AFP (fpAFP) is most likely due to the combination of increasing fetal blood volume and a decline in fetal production. The concentration gradient between fpAFP and maternal serum AFP (msAFP) is approximately 150- to 200-fold. Detectable as early as 7 weeks' gestation, msAFP reaches peak concentrations between 28-32 weeks ( 241 ). The seemingly paradoxical rise in msAFP in association with decreasing afAFP and fetal serum levels can be accounted for by the increasing placental permeability to fetal plasma proteins that occurs with advancing gestational age ( 241 ). Alpha-fetoprotein acts as an osmoregulator to help adjust fetal intravascular volume ( 241 ). It may also be involved in certain immunoregulatory functions ( 242 ). Amniotic fluid AFP and maternal serum AFP are clinically important because they are elevated in association conditions such as neural tube defects ( 243 ). Additionally, msAFP is decreased in pregnancies in which the fetus has Down syndrome (trisomy 21) ( 244 ). MATERNAL COMPARTMENT Maternal Hypothalamus and Pituitary Little information is definitively known about the endocrine alterations of the maternal hypothalamus during pregnancy. Thought to result from estrogen stimulation, the anterior pituitary undergoes a 2- to 3-fold enlargement during pregnancy, primarily because of hyperplasia and hypertrophy of lactotroph cells. Thus, plasma prolactin levels parallel the increase in pituitary size throughout gestation. In contrast to the lactotrophs, the size of the other pituitary cells decreases or remains unaltered during pregnancy. In line with these findings, maternal levels of somatotrophs and gonadotrophs are lower and the level of thyrotrophs and corticotrophs remains unchanged. In contrast, adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) levels do increase with advancing gestation. Corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the maternal plasma increases during pregnancy due to increased placental secretion, but alterations in binding-protein concentrations prevent increased biologic activity of this releasing hormone. The size of the posterior pituitary gland diminishes during pregnancy ( 245 ). Additionally, maternal plasma arginine
