Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


but alterations in binding-protein concentrations prevent increased biologic activity of this releasing hormone. The size of the posterior pituitary gland diminishes during pregnancy ( 245 ). Additionally, maternal plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) levels remain low throughout gestation and are not believed to play a pivotal role in human pregnancy. In contrast, maternal oxytocin levels progressively increase in the maternal blood and parallel the increase in maternal serum levels of estradiol and progesterone ( 246 ). Uterine oxytocin receptors also increase throughout pregnancy, resulting in a 100 fold increase in oxytocin binding at term in the myometrium ( 247 ). Maternal Thyroid Gland As a result of increased vascularity and glandular hyperplasia, the thyroid gland increases in size by 18% during pregnancy; however, true goiter is not usually present ( 248 ). Enlargement is associated with an increase in the size of the follicles with increased amounts of colloid and enhanced blood volume. This enlargement may be a response to the thyrotropic effect of hCG, which may account for some of the increase in serum thyroglobulin concentrations observed during pregnancy. During gestation the mother remains in a euthyroid state. Total thyroxine (T 4 ) and tri-iodothyronine (T 3 ) levels increase but do not result in hyperthyroidism because there is a parallel increase in T 4 -binding globulin that results from estrogen exposure ( Figure 15 ). The increase seen in binding-protein concentrations is similar to that observed in women who use oral contraceptives (OC). A modest increase in the basal metabolic rate (BMR) rate occurs during pregnancy secondary to increasing fetal requirements. Some T 4 and T 3 , but no TSH, are transferred across the placenta. Figure 15. Relative changes in maternal thyroid function during the course of human pregnancy from fertilization to term. (Modified from ( 249 ), with permission) Maternal Adrenal Glands The maternal adrenal gland does not change morphologically during pregnancy. However, plasma adrenal steroid levels increase with advancing gestation. Total plasma cortisol concentrations increase to three times nonpregnant levels by the third trimester. The hypoestrogenic state of pregnancy results in increased hepatic production of cortisol-binding globulin. This increase in cortisol-binding globulin results in decreased metabolic clearance of cortisol, resulting in an increase in plasma free cortisol and total free cortisol. Additionally, cortisol production increases due to an increase in maternal plasma ACTH concentration and the hyperresponsiveness of the adrenal cortex to the ACTH stimulation (
