Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


cortisol and total free cortisol. Additionally, cortisol production increases due to an increase in maternal plasma ACTH concentration and the hyperresponsiveness of the adrenal cortex to the ACTH stimulation ( 250 ). Despite the elevated free cortisol levels, pregnant women do not exhibit any overt signs of hypercortisolism, likely due to the anti-glucocorticoid activities of the elevated levels of progesterone. Plasma renin substrate levels are increased as a consequence of the effects of estrogen on the liver. The higher levels of renin and angiotensin during pregnancy, lead to elevated angiotensin II levels and markedly elevated levels of aldosterone. Similar to cortisol, the elevated aldosterone levels do not have a detrimental effect on maternal health. The high level of progesterone is thought to displace aldosterone from its renal receptors. Androgen levels are elevated during pregnancy, but the free androgen levels remain normal to low secondary to the estrogen-induced increase in hepatic synthesis of sex hormone-binding globulin. Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEAS production is increased twofold during pregnancy. However, serum concentrations of DHEAS are reduced to less than nonpregnant levels secondary to enhanced 16 –hydroxylation and placental use of DHEAS in estrogen production ( 251 ). Maternal Endocrine Pancreas A dual-hormone secretion mechanism is partially responsible for the metabolic adaptation of pregnancy in which glucose is spared for the fetus by the maternal endocrine pancreas. Compared to the non-pregnant state, in response to a glucose load, there is a greater release of insulin from the β-cells and a greater suppression of glucagon release from the α-cells. Associated with the increased release of insulin, the maternal pancreas undergoes β-cell hyperplasia and islet-cell hypertrophy, with an accompanying increase in blood flow to the endocrine pancreas. During pregnancy, when fasting blood glucose levels fall, they rise to a greater extent in response to a glucose load than do levels in non-pregnant women. The increased release of insulin is related to insulin resistance due to hPL, which spares transfer of glucose to the fetus. Glucagon levels are also suppressed in response to a glucose load, with the greatest suppression occurring near term. REGULATION OF FETO-MATERNAL STEROIDOGENESIS Using in vitro investigations utilizing placental tissue explants as well as in vivo, catheterized primate models to study steroidogenic regulation in pregnancy, researchers have determined LDL-cholesterol, fetal pituitary hormones, intra-placental regulators, and intra-adrenal regulators act as the primary modulators of feto-placental steroid production ( 252 - 254 ). Regulation by Low
