Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


pregnancy, researchers have determined LDL-cholesterol, fetal pituitary hormones, intra-placental regulators, and intra-adrenal regulators act as the primary modulators of feto-placental steroid production ( 252 - 254 ). Regulation by Low Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (LDL) A limiting factor in adrenal steroid output is the availability of LDL-cholesterol, the primary lipoprotein used in fetal adrenal steroid synthesis ( Figure 16 ). Circulating LDL-cholesterol accounts for 50-70% of the cholesterol utilized for fetal adrenal steroidogenesis ( 255 - 257 ). The fetal adrenal is known to contain high affinity, low-capacity LDL binding sites. The presence of ACTH increases this binding capacity ( 256 , 258 , 259 ). Within the adrenal gland, hydrolysis of LDL makes cholesterol available for conversion to steroids. The majority of fetal LDL-cholesterol is made, de novo, in the fetal liver ( 260 ). In addition, cortisol from the fetal adrenal cortex and estradiol (aromatized from fetal DHEAS) augment this de novo synthesis within the fetal liver. These systems interact in a manner that is linked, self-perpetuating, and serves to increase steroid production to meet the needs of the maturing fetus ( 260 ). Figure 16. Shown are the maternal, placental and fetal compartments for estrogen and progesterone synthesis in human pregnancy. The fetal adrenal gland lacks 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, but has sulfation and 16α-hydroxylase capabilities. Likewise, the placenta lacks 17α-hydroxylase activity but contains sulfatase in order to cleave the sulfated fetal products. Modified from ( 261 ), with permission) Regulation by Fetal Pituitary Hormones Fetal ACTH regulates steroidogenesis in both adrenal zones. Adrenocorticotropic hormone receptor activity is diminished in the fetal zone of the cortex during the early second trimester when other factors, such as hCG, are more important in the maintenance of this zone ( 260 ). In vitro studies in human fetal adrenal tissue, demonstrate that ACTH stimulates the release of D5 pregnenolone sulfate and DHEAS, whereas in adult adrenal cortex secretes only cortisol when stimulated by ACTH ( 260 ). Moreover, ACTH can act on its own adrenal-cell membrane receptor to express a direct stimulatory effect on steroidogenic enzymes ( 260 ). Adrenocorticotropic hormone extracted from the human fetal pituitary gland has been shown, in vitro, to stimulate the production of DHEAS and cortisol ( 262 , 263 ). Interestingly, concentrations of ACTH throughout gestation do not correlate with the increasing mass of the fetal adrenal cortex or the increasing steroidogenic function that are hallmarks of
