Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


, 263 ). Interestingly, concentrations of ACTH throughout gestation do not correlate with the increasing mass of the fetal adrenal cortex or the increasing steroidogenic function that are hallmarks of the third trimester ( 259 ). Fetal pituitary ACTH is detectable by 9 weeks’ gestation ( 263 , 264 ). Thereafter, levels of ACTH increase steadily until 20 weeks’ gestation. The levels remain stable until approximately 34 weeks, when a significant decline is initiated and persists until term ( 259 ). Prolactin may act as a co-regulator, along with ACTH, hCG and certain growth factors, in fetal adrenal steroid production ( 265 , 266 ). Both in vitro and in vivo, prolactin augments ACTH-stimulated adrenal androgen production ( 253 ). Fetal pituitary prolactin is detectable at 10 weeks’ gestation ( 264 ). Umbilical cord prolactin levels increase with advancing gestational age and rise in parallel with increased fetal adrenal mass ( 267 ). Regulation by Intra-Placental Mechanisms The placenta is an important co-regulator of the fetal adrenal zone due its ability to secrete hCG, placental CRH, progesterone and estradiol ( 233 ). In vitro and in vivo, hCG receptor activity is present in the fetal zone, and hCG stimulates fetal adrenal production of DHEAS ( 233 , 268 ). However, after the 20th week of gestation ACTH primarily influences the fetal zone of the adrenal, and at this time hCG plays only a minor role. Placental CRH, acts in a paracrine relationship with placental ACTH, to complement the actions of the fetal hypothalamus and pituitary in producing the surge in fetal glucocorticoids notable in the late third trimester as fetal growth and maturity become increasingly important ( 125 , 269 ). Placental progesterone inhibits D5 to D4 steroid transformations in the fetal zone of the adrenal ( 101 , 270 ). This effect is another explanation for fetal adrenal 3β-HSD deficiency. Placental estradiol modifies the production and metabolism of corticosteroids and progesterone. In vivo, the placenta regulates the inter-conversion of maternal cortisol to cortisone, and the fetal pituitary production of ACTH ( 264 , 269 ). Modulation of the transfer of maternal cortisol across the placenta, into the fetus, is the primary mechanism through which this effect occurs. Regulation by Intra-Adrenal Mechanisms With advancing gestational age, the fetal adrenal becomes more sensitive to circulating ACTH ( 253 ). Between 32 and 36 weeks’ gestation, the fetal adrenal mass increases (
