Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


Intra-Adrenal Mechanisms With advancing gestational age, the fetal adrenal becomes more sensitive to circulating ACTH ( 253 ). Between 32 and 36 weeks’ gestation, the fetal adrenal mass increases ( 271 - 273 ). Blood flow to the fetal adrenal is affected by many factors that, in turn, affect the exposure of the fetal adrenal receptors of the different trophic stimuli. Growth factors modulate adrenal steroid pathways just as they do in the adult adrenal cortex. The fetal adrenal produces IGF-I and IGF-II; ACTH originating from either the fetal pituitary or the placenta can stimulate production of their respective mRNAs ( 274 , 275 ). PARTURITION Parturition is a coordinated process of transition from a quiescent myometrium to an active rhythmically contractile state requiring elegant interplay between placental, fetal and maternal compartments. Though fetal maturity does not always predate the onset of labor, the two processes are related in primates. The timing of birth is a crucial determinant of perinatal outcome. Both preterm birth (<37wk) and post-term pregnancy (>42 wk) are associated with greater risk of adverse perinatal outcomes. The traditional dogma, supported by robust evidence from animal studies, has the fetoplacental unit as being in charge of the timing of parturition ( 276 ). While this is certainly true in some species, the presence of such a “placental clock” is not established in humans. Rather, it has become clear that the maternal endometrium/decidua also plays an important role in triggering the cascade of event leading to parturition ( 277 ). The precise mechanisms involved in human parturition are thought to involve CRH, functional progesterone withdrawal, increased estrogen bioavailability, and finally, increased responsiveness of the myometrium to prostaglandins and oxytocin. There is no simple chain of events as there are in other species. Numerous lines of evidence support a role for CRH in human parturition. Studies have demonstrated increased CRH and decreased CRH-binding protein levels prior to the onset of both term and preterm labor ( 278 , 279 ). CRH directly stimulates release of prostaglandins in decidua and myometrium ( 280 ). Interestingly, a paradoxical augmentation of placental CRH release by serum cortisol is maximal in the last ten weeks of pregnancy. This may be a function of cortisol competition with progesterone for placental glucocorticoid receptors, thereby blocking the inhibitory action of progesterone on CRH synthesis ( 281 ). The ratios of estradiol and progesterone in various animal models
