Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


competition with progesterone for placental glucocorticoid receptors, thereby blocking the inhibitory action of progesterone on CRH synthesis ( 281 ). The ratios of estradiol and progesterone in various animal models are closely related to the stimulation of myometrial gap-junction formation ( 282 ). With decreasing progesterone relative to estradiol, gap junctions permit cell-cell communication for the synchronized myometrial smooth muscle contractions required for labor. Progesterone and the estrogens are antagonistic in the parturition process. Progesterone produces uterine relaxation, stabilizing lysosomal membranes and inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis and release. By contrast, estrogens destabilize lysosomal membranes and augment the synthesis of prostaglandin and their release ( 283 ). Although gradual increase in umbilical cord DHEAS and maternal estriol occurs toward term, there is no corresponding drop in either fetal or maternal progesterone concentrations ( 284 ). Though a reduction in maternal or fetal progesterone levels during spontaneous labor has not been documented, functional progesterone withdrawal at the receptor level is believed to be involved in the process of parturition. This may occur via altered progesterone receptor isoform PR-A/PR-B levels in myometrium ( 285 ). Undoubtedly, progesterone is important in uterine quiescence because in the first trimester removal of the corpus luteum leads rapidly to myometrial contractions ( 84 ). Likewise, labor ensues following the administration of progesterone receptor antagonists in the third trimester ( 286 ). The anti-progesterone agents occupy progesterone receptors and inhibit the action of progesterone, which is clearly essential for maintenance of uterine quiescence. Consistent with these findings, pharmacologic treatment of women at risk for preterm labor with progesterone or synthetic progestational agents has demonstrated efficacy in the prevention of preterm labor ( 287 - 289 ). A role for estrogen in the process of parturition is supported by the finding that pregnancies are often prolonged when estrogen levels in maternal blood and urine are low, as in placental sulfatase deficiency or when associated with anencephaly ( 290 ). In human studies, there is a correlation in uterine activity with circulating maternal estrogens and progesterone as labor approaches ( 291 - 293 ). Feto-placental estrogens are closely linked to myometrial irritability, contractility, and labor. In primates, estrogens ripen the cervix, initiate uterine activity, and established labor ( 294 ). Estrogens also increase the sensitivity of the myometrium to oxytocin by augmenting prostaglandin biosynthesis ( 283 , 295 ). Because placental release of estrogens is linked to the fetal hypothalamus, pituitary,
