Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


also increase the sensitivity of the myometrium to oxytocin by augmenting prostaglandin biosynthesis ( 283 , 295 ). Because placental release of estrogens is linked to the fetal hypothalamus, pituitary, adrenals, and placenta the fetal pituitary adrenal axis appears to fine-tune parturition timing in part through its effect on estrogen production. Prostaglandins (PG) are thought to play a central role in human parturition. For years, it has been known that rupture, stripping, or infection of the fetal membranes, as well as instillation of hypertonic solutions into the amniotic fluid results in the onset of labor. These facts have led to the hypothesis that a fetal-amniotic fluid-fetal membrane complex is a metabolically active unit that triggers the onset of labor. Evidence supporting a causative role of prostaglandins in the labor process is present since PGs induce myometrial contractions in all stages of gestation. While there is still no direct evidence relating endogenous PGs to labor, there are several lines of evidence implicating PGs in this process; PG levels increase in maternal circulation and amniotic fluid in association with labor; indomethacin prevents the onset of labor in nonhuman primates and stops preterm labor in humans; stimuli that are known to induce labor (e.g. cervical ripening, rupture of membranes) are associated with PG release; the process of cervical ripening is mediated by PGs. Important to this hypothesis is the understanding that at least one mechanism in the onset of parturition is the release of stored precursors of PGs from the fetal membranes. The major precursor for PGs is arachidonic acid, which is stored in glycerophospholipids. The fetal membranes are enriched with two major glycerophospholipids, phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylethanolamine. As gestation advances, the progressively increasing levels of estrogen stimulate the storage, in fetal membranes, of these glycerophospholipids containing arachidonic acid. A series of fetal membrane lipases, including phospholipase A2 and Phospholipase C control the release of arachidonic acid from storage in fetal membrane phospholipids. Once in a free state, arachidonic acid is available for conversion to PG. Additional factors that augment and accentuate the normal process of labor include the liberation of corticosteroid by the mother and fetus, resulting in a decrease in the production of myometrial prostacyclin, a smooth muscle relaxant. Active labor is characterized by a dramatic increase in the number of oxytocin receptors in the myometrium. Once begun, the process appears to be self-perpetuating. The level of maternal catecholamines increases, resulting in
