Endocrinology of Pregnancy
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fetal, pregnancy, human, placental, maternal, levels, progesterone, hormone, journal, placenta, growth, endocrinology, clinical, adrenal


characterized by a dramatic increase in the number of oxytocin receptors in the myometrium. Once begun, the process appears to be self-perpetuating. The level of maternal catecholamines increases, resulting in the liberation of free fatty acids, including arachidonic acid; there is also an increase in the level of maternal or fetal cortisol, which decreases the production of uterine smooth muscle prostacyclin. It is unlikely that oxytocin is the initiator of labor despite the fact that oxytocin receptors are present in the myometrium and increase before labor, and it stimulates decidual prostaglandin E2 and prostaglandin F2a production. There is firm evidence of increasing, rhythmical fetal adrenal and placental steroid output over the 5 weeks just before term that is important in preparing human pregnancy for the final cascade of oxytocin and prostaglandins that stimulate labor ( 283 , 291 - 293 , 295 , 296 ). KEY POINTS Synchrony between the development of the early embryo and establishment of a receptive endometrium is necessary to allow implantation and subsequent progression of pregnancy. The placenta is a unique, dynamic organ with the inherent ability to produce, regulate, and inhibit factors that directly affect fetal growth and development. During the luteal-placental transition period, between 6-10 weeks of gestation, corpus luteal function and progesterone production naturally declines and shifts to the developing placenta. Steroidogenesis in pregnancy is characterized by enzymatic deficiencies within the placental and fetal compartments which foster interdependent transfer of precursors among compartments for the synthesis of steroid hormones. This process is modulated by LDL-cholesterol, fetal pituitary hormones, intra-placental regulators, and intra-adrenal regulators. Redundancy in protein hormone – receptor interactions such as hPL and hPGH serve to ensure that adequate nutrition is supplied to the developing fetus. A relatively insulin resistant state is generated within the maternal compartment to supply glucose and free fatty acids for fetal nutrition. Human parturition exemplifies the interplay between placental, fetal, and maternal compartments, characterized by increased estrogen bioavailability, functional progesterone withdrawal, increased CRH synthesis and release, culminating in increased responsiveness of the myometrium to prostaglandins and oxytocin. ACKNOWLEDGMENT In addition to the journal and text references listed above, the following sources were used in the preparation of this chapter: Taylor HS, Pal L, Seli E (eds.). Speroff’s Clinical Gynecologic Endocrinolofy & Infertility. Ninth edition, 2020. Wolters-Kluwer, Philadelphia. Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL [eds.]. Obstetrics: normal and problems pregnancies. Fifth edition, 2007. Churchill-Livingstone, New York. Benirschke
