Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


endotoxin (Zhanjiang acute severe mountain sickness (ASMS) accompanying Bokang, China), terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase MODS is still poorly understood. dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) kit (Roche, Swit- The gastrointestinal tract is an important organ, and its zerland), MDA kit (Nanjing Jiancheng, China), NO kit primary function is to digest and absorb nutrients. How- (Nanjing Jiancheng, China), SOD kit (Nanjing Jiancheng, ever, in addition to nutrient absorption, the gastrointestinal China), glutamine kit (Nanjing Jiancheng, China) and lan- tract functions as a barrier to prevent the translocation of thanum nitrate (Chongqi Boyi, China). intraluminal bacteria and endotoxin to systemic organs and tissues. It has been confirmed that intestinal mucosal Animals and grouping injury caused by a variety of factors may decrease the in- A total of 40 male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 200 ± testinal barrier function, thus leading to the translocation 20 g were purchased from Animal Center of Third Mili- and tissues, which is a principal cause of systemic inflam- in dedicated cages. The rats were randomly divided into matory response syndrome (SIRS), MODS and multiple normal control group (C), hypobaric hypoxia group (H), organ failure[5-7]. However, little is known about the rela- hypobaric hypoxia plus starvation group (HH), and hypo- tion between intestinal barrier dysfunction and ASMS baric hypoxia plus Gln group (HG), 10 rats in each group. accompanying MODS, and whether the intestinal barrier All procedures were performed in accordance with the dysfunction caused by hypobaric hypoxia promotes bacte- Animal Care Guidelines of Third Military Medical Uni- degree of dysfunction caused by hypobaric hypoxia and Use of Laboratory Animals of Third Military Medical the role of acute intestinal barrier dysfunction in the oc- University. This study was approved by the Ethics Com- currence and development of ASMS are still unclear. mittee of Third Military Medical University. To explore the detrimental effect of hypobaric hy- poxia on intestinal barrier function and the role of acute Experimental regimen intestinal barrier dysfunction in the occurrence and devel- Rats in the control group were housed under a normal at- opment of ASMS, we examined the microstructure and mospheric pressure and weighed daily, with free access to ultra-structure of intestinal mucosa from rats exposed to food. Rats in groups H, HH and HG were exposed to a hypobaric hypoxia, under light and electron microscopes. simulated altitude of 7000 m for 72 h in an animal decom- The activity of serum and intestinal diamine oxidase pression
