Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


to a hypobaric hypoxia, under light and electron microscopes. simulated altitude of 7000 m for 72 h in an animal decom- The activity of serum and intestinal diamine oxidase pression chamber, to established rat model of hypoxia ex- (DAO), malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase posure. Rats in group H had free access to food and water (SOD) and NO, as well as glutamine (Gln) was assayed. and weighed daily, rats in group HH were fasted with free In addition, rats were given Gln intragastrically to explore access to water, and rats in group HG had free access to its protective effect on intestinal mucosa. The results of food and water in addition to intragastric Gln (0.5 g/d per WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1585 March 28, 2011|Volume 17|Issue 12| Zhou QQ et al. Over-starvation promotes bacterial and endotoxin translocation 100 g body weight) at 09:00, am, daily. Gln was prepared saline, and cut into 2 mm × 2 mm sections which were in warm water at a dilution of 1:4. The animals were taken fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde and 10% osmium, dehy- out of the chamber for feeding, medication, weighing and drated in sucrose solution containing PBS. Subsequently, cleaning for 30 min, and returned to the chamber for con- the cells were labeled with gold and observed under a tinuous hypoxia exposure. scanning electron microscope. The arrangement of mi- Three days after exposed to hypobaric hypoxia, the crovilli in intestinal mucosa and organelles in columnar rats were sacrificed by decapitation with 5 mL blood col- epithelial cells were observed. Special attention was paid lected into a pyrogen-free tube. The blood was centrifuged to the deformed and exfoliated villi and the intercellular at 2500 r/min at -4℃, and serum was stored at -20℃ space between epithelia. before use. Additionally, the heart, liver, spleen, lungs and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) were removed from rats, Observation of intestinal mucosa ultra-structure by weighed, and subjected to bacterial culture. About 5 cm of transmission electron microscopy ileum, approximately 5 cm from the ileocecal junction, was Jejunal tissue was cut into 0.7 cm × 0.7 cm sections and obtained for light and electron microscopy. About 3 cm of adherent feces were removed from the colon mucosa intestine was put into a 3-fold volume of PBS (0.1 mol/L, with saline. The sections were immediately placed into pH 7.2), homogenized and centrifuged at 1000 r/min for a 4℃ fixative (4 g paraformaldehyde, 20
