Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


3-fold volume of PBS (0.1 mol/L, with saline. The sections were immediately placed into pH 7.2), homogenized and centrifuged at 1000 r/min for a 4℃ fixative (4 g paraformaldehyde, 20 mL glutaral- 30 min. Then, the supernatant was collected. dehyde, 100 mL 0.2 mol/L phosphate buffer solution, and 80 mL distilled water, pH 7.4) for 2 h, and then cut General observations into 1 mm × 1 mm ×1 mm pieces. The specimens were The spontaneous activity, mental state, eating status and washed three times (10 min each) with 10% sucrose weight of rats were observed. phosphate buffer, fixed in 1% osmium tetroxide at 4℃ for 1 h, dehydrated, embedded in resin, then cut into Light microscopy ultra-thin sections which were stained with uranyl acetate About 2 cm of intestine at 5 cm from the ileocecal valve and lead citrate, and examined by transmission electron was obtained and cut open longitudinally. The intestine microscopy and photographed. The tight junctions be- was washed with normal saline, fixed in 10% formal- tween intestinal mucosal epithelia, arrangement of mi- dehyde at 4℃ for 24 h, rinsed with PBS, embedded in crovilli, integrity of columnar epithelial cells, organelles paraffin and consecutively cut into 4-μm thick sections and nuclei, and structure of glands in lamina propria which were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (HE). were observed. The structure of intestinal mucosal epithelium was ob- served and the thickness of mucosa was measured. The Detection of intestinal mucosal injury height and area of 15 randomly selected intestinal villi Two rats in each group were anesthetized through intra- were measured and averaged according to the following peritoneal administration of 1% sodium pentobarbital equation: Area = 2πrh, where r represents the radius of (1.0 mL/100 g body weight). Transcardial perfusion was villus and h is the height of villus. The number of villi performed with a mixture containing 3% glutaraldehyde, was counted in each field of vision. 4% paraformaldehyde and 2% lanthanum nitrate. The mixture was prepared with 0.1 mol/L sodium dimethyl Assay of apoptotic intestinal mucosal epithelial cells arsenite in PBS. Part of the intestine was obtained and About 2 cm of intestine at 5 cm from the ileocecal valve fixed in the same mixture followed by 1% osmium. The was obtained and cut open longitudinally. The intestine tissues were rinsed with 0.1 mol/L sodium dimethyl ar- was washed with normal saline, fixed in 10% formalde- senite
