Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


1% osmium. The was obtained and cut open longitudinally. The intestine tissues were rinsed with 0.1 mol/L sodium dimethyl ar- was washed with normal saline, fixed in 10% formalde- senite solution, and slides were prepared as indicated for hyde at 4℃ for 24 h, rinsed with PBS, embedded in paraf- transmission electron microscopy. fin, and consecutively cut into 4-μm thick sections which were mounted onto 0.05% lysine-treated slides. The slides Detection of bacterial translocation were dried at room temperature for 20 min, dry-heated at The blood, heart, liver, spleen, lungs and MLN were 60℃ for 30 min and stored at room temperature before independently placed into a 9-fold volume of normal use. The sections were stained with TUNEL as previously saline, and the mixture was homogenized. Then, 0.5 mL described. The cells with blue nuclei were considered homogenates was loaded onto the MacConkey solid me- positive cells. Two slides of each sample were selected, dium to culture bacteria for 24 h, and the bacteria were and 4 randomly selected fields were used to calculate the analyzed biochemically. apoptotic intestinal mucosal epithelial cells at a magnifi- cation × 400. The counts were averaged. The apoptotic Measurement of serum endotoxin level index (AI) was calculated as follows: number of TUNEL The serum endotoxin level was measured by limulus test positive cells/number of total cells. as previously described. The serum was prepared with warm water, and 0.1 mL serum was mixed with 0.9 mL Observation of intestinal mucosa ultra-structure by processing solution and incubated at 70℃ for 15 min. scanning electron microscopy Subsequently, 0.2 mL serum was added into the enzyme Part of the ileum was obtained, rinsed with cold normal reaction solution and reacted in the endotoxin detection WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1586 March 28, 2011|Volume 17|Issue 12| 0 1 2 3 was markedly lower in groups H, HH and HG with a t/d poor mental state than in control group. The food-intake was significantly higher in group C than in group H (50 g/d vs 23 g/d, P < 0.05). The food intake was slight decreased in group HG (38 g/d). The body weight in group C increased stably, and decreased most evidently in group HH, followed by groups H and HG (Figure 1). Light microscopy The intestinal mucosa was smooth with intact epithelia system EDS-99 for 1 h. The serum endotoxin level was and ordered arrangement of villi in group C with no
