Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


Light microscopy The intestinal mucosa was smooth with intact epithelia system EDS-99 for 1 h. The serum endotoxin level was and ordered arrangement of villi in group C with no de- automatically outputted from the system. fects detected in villi (Figure 2A). The intestinal mucosa was exfoliated and the villi became thinner in group H. Measurement of serum DAO, SOD, MDA, NO, Gln, DAO In addition, the number of mucosal villi was reduced, and Gln levels in intestine and the villi were irregular and disorganized (Figure 2B). About 0.5 mL serum was mixed with a solution contain- In group HH, atrophic and thinned of villi accompany- ing 0.1 mol/L PBS (3 mL, pH 7.2), horseradish peroxidase ing a loose and disordered arrangement were observed (4 g, 0.1 mL), 3,3´-dimethoxybenzidine (500 g, 0.1 mL) with edema and infiltration of inflammatory cells in the and cadaverine dihydrochloride (175 g, 0.1 mL) and in- mastoid lamina of villi, lodged and exfoliated villi with loss cubated at 37℃ for 30 min. The solution was replaced of goblet cells and effusion of red blood cells around by PBS as a blank control. The optical density (OD) was the capillaries (Figure 2C). In group HG, the intestinal detected at 436 nm, and the DAO content was measured. The standard curve was delineated with DAO. About mucosal villi were relatively intact with ordered arrange- ment with alleviated edema in the mastoid lamina of 0.5 mL intestinal homogenates was used to measure the villi accompanying a few infiltrated inflammatory cells DAO content with the same method. Approximately 0.1 mL (Figure 2D). The height of intestinal villi and the thick- serum was used to detect the SOD activity and measure the NO and MDA content as previously described. The ness of mucosa accompanying a decreased villous area were lower in groups H and HH than group C (P < 0.05). SOD and NO contents were measured using the nitrate The height and area of intestinal villi and the thickness reductase activity, the MDA content was measured using were calculated using the Gln synthetic enzymatic method. in group H (P < 0.05, Table 1). In addition, the content of proteins in homogenates was of Gln was obtained and the Gln content was measured. Orderly intestinal villi with a smooth surface and fullness were observed in group C (Figure 3A). The epithelia Statistical analysis were atrophic with disordered arrangement of the
