Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


normal intestinal barrier function depends on the intact may directly damage mucosal epithelia. As a result of intestinal mechanical, biological, immunological and chemi- energy deficiency, the swing of mucosal villi is also com- cal barriers. The mechanical barrier is the most important. promised, accompanying suppressed intestinal peristal- Complete intestinal mucosal epithelium is the dominant sis, which enhances intestinal absorption. Furthermore, component of the mechanical barrier, and the integrity of hypoxia may damage aerobic metabolism and increase mucosal epithelium plays a critical role in protection against glycolysis, resulting in intracellular acidosis. Subsequently, the spread of endotoxin and bacterial translocation. The the mucosal permeability increases, leading to intestinal tight junction between adjacent cells, composed of proteins barrier functional injury. Intestinal mucosal injury, cy- with various functions, can be found between villous and toclasis of goblet cells, and reduced amount of mucus duct epithelia, and plays a crucial role in preventing mol- caused by hypobaric hypoxia may attenuate the ability of ecules and ions from passing between cells. intestinal mucosa to combat gastric acid and pepsin. At Gastrointestinal motility is another component of the same time, the gastrointestinal vagus nerve is in an the intestinal mechanical barrier. The swing of intestinal excitatory state, which increases the secretion of gastrin, villi reduces the adhesion of pathogens to mucosal epi- and the gastric acid and pepsin deteriorate the intestinal thelia. Furthermore, intestinal peristalsis pushes the food injury. Hypobaric hypoxia may also reduce secretion of residue to the distal end and reduces the stay time of secretory IgG, which compromises the specific immune bacteria in intestinal mucosa and the chance of bacteria function of intestine. Moreover, the expressed adhesion reaching epithelia through the mucous layer, which re- molecules of white blood cells and endothelia enhance WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1590 March 28, 2011|Volume 17|Issue 12| Zhou QQ et al. Over-starvation promotes bacterial and endotoxin translocation the phagocytosis of neutrophils, which release several tinal tract DAO level and decreasing the DAO levels in in- proteolytic enzymes, thus resulting in intestinal mucosal testinal mucosa. The activity of SOD represents its ability injury. There is evidence that hypobaric hypoxia can to scavenge free radicals. MDA is the end product of lipid reduce bile secretion and cause disorderliness of entero- oxidation and indirectly represents lipid peroxidation. NO hepatic circulation, leading to gastrointestinal dysfunc- is an antioxidant. When the intestinal mucosa is damaged, tion and overpopulation of intestinal bacteria, and fur- the activity of
