Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


represents lipid peroxidation. NO hepatic circulation, leading to gastrointestinal dysfunc- is an antioxidant. When the intestinal mucosa is damaged, tion and overpopulation of intestinal bacteria, and fur- the activity of SOD decreases, accompanying decreased ther intestinal biological barrier damage. The damaged NO and increased MDA contents. It was reported that biological barrier, together with the injured mechanical the serum Gln level is decreased in intestinal mucosa of barrier and increased mucosal permeability, increases the patients with some critical illnesses. In the present study, possibility of overproduced bacteria and endotoxin en- the activity of serum DAO and MDA and endotoxin levels tering parenteral organs through injured mucosa, thus were markedly higher in rats exposed to hypobaric hypoxia resulting in the spread of endotoxin and bacterial trans- than in those not exposed to hypobaric hypoxia. However, location, which is also the basic cause of SIRS. the activity of DAO and the content of Gln, and the se- In the present study, after the rats were exposed to a rum NO and Gln levels in intestinal mucosa were signifi- simulated altitude of 7000 m for 72 h, their food intake cantly lower in rats exposed to hypobaric hypoxia than in was significantly reduced, accompanying weight loss. Light those not exposed to hypobaric hypoxia. These changes microscopy showed that the intestinal mucosa was exfoli- were more evident in rats after exposed to hypobaric hy- ated, and the height of mucosa decreased. The number poxia and starvation. The serum activity of DAO, MDA of villi was reduced, along with their height, accompany- and endotoxin was dramatically decreased after treatment ing an irregular morphology. The epithelia had different with Gln. Moreover, the activity of DAO in intestinal mu- sizes and disordered arrangement. The number of goblet cosa and the serum NO and Gln levels in intestine were cells was decreased, and a few of them showed signs of markedly increased. These results suggest that Gln, as an degeneration. Electron microscopy revealed atrophic and intestinal nutrient, can confer protective effects against in- thinned intestinal villi and disordered epithelia. The villi testinal mucosal injury caused by hypobaric hypoxia. were incomplete and exfoliated, accompanying widened The results of this study show that hypobaric hypoxia intercellular spaces. Swollen endoplasmic reticulum and can severely injure the intestinal barrier function and in- mitochondria and dilated Golgi complex were observed crease the intestinal mucosal permeability. In addition, the with irregular nuclei and edge
