Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


and can severely injure the intestinal barrier function and in- mitochondria and dilated Golgi complex were observed crease the intestinal mucosal permeability. In addition, the with irregular nuclei and edge aggregation of chromatin. release of factors involved in SIRS was enhanced accom- In addition, lanthanum granules were found in intercel- panying reduced production of protective factors after lular spaces, basement membrane, tissue spaces, and intra- exposed to hypobaric hypoxia. At the same time, the abil- cellular compartment. At the same time, TUNEL staining ity of hypobaric hypoxia to combat lipid peroxidation was showed that the number of apoptotic epithelial cells was reduced. These changes finally resulted in the spread of significantly elevated after the rats were exposed to hypo- endotoxin and bacterial translocation. The spread of en- baric hypoxia. Under a hypobaric hypoxia environment, dotoxin and bacterial translocation, on one hand, activates starvation might markedly enhance the mucosal injury Kupffer cells in the liver, resulting in the release of numer- that leads to exfoliation, atrophy and decreased height of ous cytokines, and on the other hand, leads to endotox- mucosal villi. Vacuolar degeneration was noted in a few emia, which activates monocytes, macrophages, T and B epithelia with effusion of red blood cells around capil- lymphocytes, and promotes the release of a large number laries, accompanying infiltration of inflammatory cells. of cytokines, thus resulting in a cytokine cascade. Addi- The intestinal mucosal injury was dramatically improved tionally, the release of numerous inflammatory mediators, after treatment with Gln. These findings demonstrate that including metabolites of arachidonic acid (prostaglandin acute hypobaric hypoxia can severely damage intestinal E2, prostacyclin, NO, platelet activating factor, leukotriene mucosa, thus resulting in intestinal barrier functional in- and bradykinin), may induce SIRS. SIRS further pro- jury. In this study, Gln exerted its protective effects on the motes the release of inflammatory mediators, which result injured intestinal mucosa to a certain extent. in inflammatory-mediator-related cascade effects, exacer- Damage to the intestinal barrier function may increase bation of intestinal mucosal injury, and suppression of mucosal permeability, which leads to bacterial translocation intestinal immune function, thus leading to aggravation and SIRS. Therefore, detection of bacterial translocation of bacterial translocation and spread of endotoxin, which and spread of endotoxin, as well as measurement of some are the basis of the later stage of SIRS. Therefore, the parameters (DAO, MDA, SOD, NO and Gln) related to in- intestinal tract is not only the
