Online Submissions: World J Gastroenterol 2011 March 28; 17(12): 1584-1593
KEYWORDS: group, intestinal, hypoxia, villi, hypobaric, endotoxin, mucosal, cells, translocation, hypobaric hypoxia, gln, bacterial, mucosa, rats, serum


measurement of some are the basis of the later stage of SIRS. Therefore, the parameters (DAO, MDA, SOD, NO and Gln) related to in- intestinal tract is not only the target organ of SIRS but testinal function and systemic inflammatory reaction, may also the initiator of SIRS, which forms a vicious cycle directly reflect the intestinal barrier function. The spread that results in an endogenous and uncontrollable systemic of endotoxin and bacterial translocation represent an in- inflammatory reaction, deterioration of tissue, organ in- creased mucosal permeability, which occurs after intestinal jury, and finally, MODS. Therefore, the damaged intestinal mucosal injury. The activity of DAO in mucosal villi may barrier function resulting from hypobaric hypoxia may be reflect the structure and function of intestine. When one of the important causes of high-altitude MODS. mucosal cells are injured and necrotized, DAO is released Both high-altitude hypoxia and starvation may cause into the blood or enters the intestinal tract together with severe intestinal barrier function injury, and increased necrotic mucosal cells, thus increasing the serum and intes- bacterial and endotoxin translocation, but high-altitude WJG|www.wjgnet.com 1591 March 28, 2011|Volume 17|Issue 12| Zhou QQ et al. Over-starvation promotes bacterial and endotoxin translocation starvation causes more sever intestinal mucosal injury, and (n = 40). Animals exposed to hypobaric hypoxia for 72 h demonstrated histo- bacterial and endotoxin translocation than simple hypoxic logical damage to the small intestine, translocation of lanthanum particles, and increased serum levels of DAO, MDA and endotoxin. This was accompanied by exposure. High-altitude over-starvation can aggravate increased translocation of bacteria into lymph nodes and the spleen. Concomi- intestinal mucosal injury and promote bacterial and endo- tant treatment of rats with glucosamine reduced the severity of intestinal injury. toxin translocation, which can be markedly alleviated after intragastric administration of Gln.
