HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: sputum, manuscript, author, author manuscript, mtb, minidock, test, minidock mtb, sensitivity, manuscript author, participants, reference, ultra, table, results


(IQR: 65–80), indicating good usability. No adverse events related to the index test were reported. Conclusions: MiniDock MTB meets WHO accuracy targets for sputum- and non-sputum-based TB testing. Tuberculosis (TB) remains a leading cause of infectious disease-related mortality worldwide, making timely diagnosis essential for effective treatment and control.1 However, access to rapid, accurate, and user-friendly diagnostics at or near the point-of-care (POC) is still limited in many high-burden settings. MTB Nucleic Acid Test Card (MiniDock MTB Test; Guangzhou Pluslife Biotech, China) is a qualitative molecular test designed for detecting Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) using the Pluslife Integrated Nucleic Acid Testing Device (MiniDock PM001 Ultra), a low cost, portable, battery-operated isothermal platform. The test employs RNase hybridization–assisted amplification (RHAM), combining loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) with RNase HII–mediated signal detection in a single reaction, producing visual results in 12 to 25 minutes. It targets conserved regions of the IS6110 and gyrB genes and includes an internal control to verify sample adequacy and amplification integrity. Sample preparation is performed using Pluslife Thermolyse, which combines N Engl J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript automated bead-beating (3000 rpm) and thermal lysis (75°C for 5 minutes) to process sputum (using swab swirled in sputum) or tongue swab samples. In a multicenter pilot study, a prototype test demonstrated sensitivity of 89.9% (95% CI, 80.2–95.8) for sputum and 85.7% (95% CI, 75.3–92.9) for tongue swabs, with >98% minimum accuracy targets for near-POC TB diagnostics. 2,3 We conducted an evaluation of the design-locked version of the MiniDock MTB Test burden countries. Diagnostic performance was assessed against a microbiological reference standard and compared to sputum smear microscopy and sputum Xpert MTB/RIF Ultra (Ultra; Cepheid, USA). Usability was assessed among healthcare workers (HCWs) involved in routine sample collection and TB testing at participating sites. Methods Study Design and Setting: This prospective, cross-sectional, multicenter diagnostic accuracy study was conducted in outpatient clinics in India, Nigeria, the Philippines, South Africa, Uganda, Vietnam, and Zambia as part of the Rapid Research in Diagnostics Development for TB Network (R2D2 TB Network) and the Assessing Diagnostics At Point-of-care for Tuberculosis (ADAPT) studies (Table S1). Study Participants: We screened consecutive individuals presenting to participating health centers between September 12, 2024 and March 31, 2025 (Table S1), and enrolled those aged 12 years or older who met pre-specified eligibility criteria. Eligible participants had either a new
