HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: sputum, manuscript, author, author manuscript, mtb, minidock, test, minidock mtb, sensitivity, manuscript author, participants, reference, ultra, table, results


per the WHO Technical Specifications Series (TSS)-17.7 The secondary reference standard was the composite reference standard (Supplementary Methods). Participants were classified as TB-positive, TB-negative, or indeterminate. Operators performing molecular and reference tests were blinded to other test results. Statistical Analysis: Assuming 20% TB prevalence, a target sample size of 1000 participants was set to ensure sufficient precision in sensitivity and specificity estimates, which were calculated against the microbiological reference standard, with their exact binomial 95% confidence intervals (CIs), both overall and within key subgroups. Confidence intervals were not adjusted for multiplicity. Differences between the index and comparator tests were assessed using McNemar’s test for paired proportions. The primary analysis used the first index test result. Invalid results were excluded but reported separately (Supplementary Methods). For the usability assessment, the System Usability Scale score was calculated as described previously.8 Descriptive statistics and thematic analysis were used to summarize participant characteristics, survey responses, and qualitative data (Supplementary Methods). Ethics Statement: The study was registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT04923958.9 Ethical approval was obtained from institutional review boards and/or research ethics committees at all participating institutions (Table S1). Written informed consent was obtained from all N Engl J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript participants or caregivers, along with verbal assent from adolescents. Participation did not affect the standard of care provided. This study adheres to established guidelines for reporting diagnostic accuracy studies.10 Results Study Population: Of 1593 adults and adolescents screened, 210 were excluded for reasons outlined in Figure 1. Of the 1,383 participants enrolled, 1,380 provided samples and were included in the analysis. Among these, 603 (43.7%) were female, and the median age was 41 years (interquartile range, 29–54) (Tables 1 and S3). HIV infection was reported in 255 (18.6%), and 187 (13.6%) had diabetes. Based on the microbiological reference standard, 226 (17.4%) were diagnosed with confirmed TB, all referred for treatment according to local guidelines. Bacillary load as measured by Ultra semi-quantitative grade was higher at the four African sites compared to the three Asian sites (56.7–83.3% vs. 38.9–54.5% of Xpert Ultra-positive participants with medium or high grades). TB prevalence varied by country, ranging from 4.8% in India to 28.1% in Nigeria. Sputum induction was required in 144 (10.4%) participants. Performance of MiniDock MTB on Sputum: Among sputum MiniDock MTB tests conducted, 15 (1.1%) produced invalid results initially (Table S4). Retesting
