HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: sputum, manuscript, author, author manuscript, mtb, minidock, test, minidock mtb, sensitivity, manuscript author, participants, reference, ultra, table, results


by user group: clinicians reported the highest ratings (median 75, IQR 70–82.5), followed by laboratory technicians (median 73.8, IQR 65–80), while nurses reported the lowest (65 for both participants) (Figure 2B). Most core procedural steps (>90%) were completed successfully (Table S13). However, among the 22 tasks assessed, two critical errors were identified: omission of the lysis step and overfilling the reaction card (Table S14). Most users found the test acceptable (n=17/18) (Figure S2). In open-ended feedback, the test was consistently described as easy-to-use, especially compared to sputum smear microscopy (Table S15). Users also valued its compatibility with non-sputum samples and potential for decentralized use. Discussion In this multi-country evaluation, the MiniDock MTB test demonstrated diagnostic accuracy consistent with WHO target product profile for near-POC TB diagnostics using sputum and tongue swab specimens.3 In addition to robust performance, the test was rated as easy-to- use, with high usability scores indicating that it can be operated with minimal training. These findings support the feasibility of implementing MiniDock MTB as a flexible, user-friendly diagnostic option that performs comparably to or better than established TB diagnostic tests while offering the opportunity for noninvasive sampling and supporting universal access to molecular TB testing. Earlier studies of swab-based molecular TB testing evaluated tongue swabs processed with laboratory-based in-house qPCR assays or adapted sputum tests like Ultra, demonstrating their feasibility as a noninvasive option, though sensitivity varied by bacillary load and assay type.11–20,19 However, most approaches adapted tests optimized for large volume (0.5–2 mL) sputum samples rather than being purpose-built for swabs. In contrast, MiniDock MTB was designed for swab-based TB detection. Its development incorporated insights from earlier work, including the need to enhance MTB lysis using heat and mechanical treatment, and to eliminate complex sample preparation steps through an extraction-free workflow18,21 While this study design addressed key limitations of prior assays, performance still varied across settings and populations for both sputum and tongue swab, likely reflecting differences in disease severity, timing of healthcare-seeking behavior, underlying bacterial load, and the prevalence of low-IS6110-copy strains.22–26 Consistent with this, lower sensitivity was observed among individuals with presumed low mycobacterial burden, such as people living with HIV, those with smear-negative TB, or with lower Ultra semi- quantitative grades, though to varying degrees. This finding aligns with previously reported Ultra performance in similar subpopulations,27–29 further underscoring the challenges of TB diagnosis in paucibacillary disease contexts. Despite these challenges, our findings demonstrate
