HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: sputum, manuscript, author, author manuscript, mtb, minidock, test, minidock mtb, sensitivity, manuscript author, participants, reference, ultra, table, results


varying degrees. This finding aligns with previously reported Ultra performance in similar subpopulations,27–29 further underscoring the challenges of TB diagnosis in paucibacillary disease contexts. Despite these challenges, our findings demonstrate that MiniDock MTB offers reasonable accuracy with practical advantages. Our accuracy findings, combined with the test’s ease N Engl J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript of use and anticipated low cost (<$180 USD per device and <$4 USD per test), have implications for the future of TB diagnostics. MiniDock MTB has the potential to be a tool enabling increased access to molecular testing, including for the 11–43% of adults unable to produce sputum, and by increasing diagnostic yield.30 Its usability and acceptability among test-naïve users relying solely on the manufacturer-provided instructions for use underscore its suitability for decentralized use with minimal training. Furthermore, the test meets many WHO target product profile criteria for a near-POC test: it is low-cost, rapid, compact, simple to use, extraction-free, and well suited for decentralized or resource-limited settings.3 As such, it offers a feasible, alternative to microscopy that could expand access to molecular TB diagnosis, improve case detection, and bring high-quality testing closer to where patients live and seek care. The study findings supported WHO guideline development group review of MiniDock MTB as a near-POC test for TB. Provided the recommendations are positive, implementing MiniDock MTB aligns directly with WHO’s End TB Strategy, which emphasizes early, equitable access to high-quality diagnosis, and WHO guidelines that recommend replacing smear microscopy with WHO-recommended rapid molecular diagnostics at all health system levels, including primary care.31,32 This study has several notable strengths. The multi-center design across diverse geographic methodology and standardized protocols support internal validity. The inclusion of a usability assessment further strengthens the study by evaluating operational feasibility and end-user interaction, critical components for widespread implementation in resource-limited settings. However, the study also has limitations. The study was conducted in research settings under controlled conditions, potentially inflating accuracy estimates. The use of an imperfect reference standard, particularly in HIV-positive or paucibacillary subgroups, could have affected specificity estimates. Further, while the overall sample size was sufficient for primary analyses, some subgroups may have been underrepresented, limiting the precision of subgroup-specific estimates. Although results exceeded accuracy targets for near-POC TB tests, several implementation questions remain to be addressed by future studies. First, we observed that sensitivity decreased with
