HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: sputum, manuscript, author, author manuscript, mtb, minidock, test, minidock mtb, sensitivity, manuscript author, participants, reference, ultra, table, results


precision of subgroup-specific estimates. Although results exceeded accuracy targets for near-POC TB tests, several implementation questions remain to be addressed by future studies. First, we observed that sensitivity decreased with lower mycobacterial load, particularly for tongue swabs. This pattern aligns with previous studies and highlights a potential limitation of tongue swab-based sampling for detecting paucibacillary disease.18,21 The applicability of tongue swab testing in populations with low bacillary burden, such as individuals undergoing active case finding in community-based screening programs or children, remains unclear and warrants dedicated evaluation. Moreover, studies are needed to assess diagnostic yield, rather than accuracy alone, especially in populations likely to have paucibacillary disease, and to evaluate real- world patient-relevant outcomes such as turnaround time. Second, the current MiniDock platform does not support drug-resistance testing, highlighting the need to develop and evaluate diagnostic algorithms that incorporate reflex testing strategies. N Engl J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2026 April 30. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Conclusions MiniDock MTB demonstrated diagnostic accuracy and usability for TB detection using sputum and tongue swab samples across diverse settings. Its near-POC design and minimal training requirements could expand access to timely diagnosis, particularly in peripheral health centers in high burden settings that continue to rely on smear microscopy or do not currently offer TB testing. Supplementary Material Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material. Acknowledgments The authors sincerely thank all the study participants. We also thank the directors and all staff at the study sites for their assistance and collaboration. This study was conducted independently of the product developer, Guangzhou Pluslife Biotech; their involvement was limited to providing the devices and test cards for evaluation. Sources of Support The R2D2 TB Network is funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH; funding reference numbers U01AI152087 and R01AI190419). ADAPT is funded by the Supporting, Mobilizing, and Accelerating Research for Tuberculosis Elimination (SMART4TB) Consortium (cooperative agreement number 7200AA20CA00005), made possible by the generous support of the American people. The contents are the sole responsibility of the Infectious Disease Research in Zambia (Lusaka, Zambia), Zankli Research Center (Karu, Nigeria) and De La Foundation (GF; funding reference number INV-080721). The communication is the authors’ sole responsibility and does not necessarily reflect the views of NIH, USAID, the US Government, GF, or consortium collaborators or members. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision
