QT interval
KEYWORDS: interval, wave, example, shown, syndrome, heart, shown example, long, method, math, prolonged, point, end, end wave, normal


the terminal part of the T wave at the point of maximium downslope.[4] Shown below is an example of normal QT interval. The QT interval is an important ECG parameter and the identification of ECGs with long QT syndrome is of clinical importance. Considering the required standards for precision, the measurement of QT interval is subjective.[5] This is because the end of the T wave is not always clearly defined and usually merges gradually with the baseline. QT interval in an ECG complex can be measured manually by different methods such as the threshold method, in which the end of the T wave is determined by the point at which the component of the T wave merges with the isoelectric baseline or the tangent method, in which the end of the T wave is determined by the intersection of a line extrapolated from the isoelectric baseline and the tangent line, which touches the terminal part of the T wave at the point of maximum downslope.[4] 2/7 With the increased availability of digital ECGs with simultaneous 12-channel recording, QT measurement may also be done by the 'superimposed median beat' method. In the superimposed median beat method, a median ECG complex is constructed for each of the 12 leads. The 12 median beats are superimposed on each other and the QT interval is measured either from the earliest onset of the Q wave to the latest offset of the T wave or from the point of maximum convergence for the Q wave onset to the T wave offset.[6] Natural History, Complications and Prognosis If the QT interval is abnormally prolonged or shortened, there is a risk of developing ventricular arrhythmias. Genetic Causes An abnormal prolonged QT interval could be due to Long QT syndrome, whereas an abnormal shortened QT interval could be due to Short QT syndrome. Due to adverse drug reactions Prolongation of the QT interval may be due to an adverse drug reaction.[7] Many drugs such as haloperidol[8] can prolong the QT interval. Prolongation of the QT Interval: 1. • Represents an excess time required for completion of ventricular depolarization and repolarization. 2. • Abnormal when the QTc is > 0.44 seconds. Shown below are examples of prolonged QY interval. 3/7 Shown below is an example of prolonged QT interval with bradycardia. Shown below is an example of torsades de pointes Drug Causes Ofloxacin Differential Diagnosis: • Idiopathic long QT
