QT interval
KEYWORDS: interval, wave, example, shown, syndrome, heart, shown example, long, method, math, prolonged, point, end, end wave, normal


3/7 Shown below is an example of prolonged QT interval with bradycardia. Shown below is an example of torsades de pointes Drug Causes Ofloxacin Differential Diagnosis: • Idiopathic long QT syndrome 1. C•o Jokeirevs ehelll pa uns dde lLivaern oguer -sNeriveiclesse. Bny ussyinngd oruor mserevices, you agree to our use of cookies. 4/7 • is associated with congenital deafness, syncope, and sudden death. • autosomal recessive inheritance • heterozygotes may be normal or have a slightly prolonged QT interval • incidence among deaf mute children is .25% 2. • Romano-Ward syndrome • clinically similar to the Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome except the hearing is normal • autosomal dominant • heterozygotes and homozygotes persons may have similar symptoms 3. • Sporadic long QT syndrome • females:males = 2:1 • 57% had a history of syncope • there was a strong association between syncopal episodes and emotions, vigorous activities and loud noises. 4. • Pathogenesis • imbalance between various components of the cardiac sympathetic innervation. 5. • Treatment to shorten the QT syndrome: • left stellate ganglion block • right stellate ganglion stimulation • the administration of propranolol [9] Short QT Interval Shown below is an example of short QT interval. 5/7 Causes 1. • Digoxin therapy 2. • Hypercalcemia 3. • Secondary (acquired) types of QT prolongation • Coronary artery disease: Ischemia, infarction • MVP, cardiomyopathy • CNS disease, especially hemorrhage • Autonomic nervous system dysfunction secondary to radical neck dissection, carotid endarterectomy, transabdominal truncal vagotomy. • Metabolic disturbances. Electrolyte imbalance (such as hypocalcemia), liquid protein diet, intracoronary injection of contrast agents. • Cardiac medications: Quinidine, PCA, disopyramide, encainide, flecainide, propafenone, amiodarone. • Psychotropic drugs. Phenothiazines, tricyclic antidepressants. 6/7 • Miscellaneous. Severe bradycardia, high degree AV block, post Stokes-Adams attacks, hypothyroidism, hypothermia, pheochromocytoma, organophosphate poisoning.
