Baidya et al. Journal of Medical Case Reports (2022) 16:490
KEYWORDS: porphyria, acute, pain, patient, diagnosis, symptoms, case, abdominal, abdominal pain, intermittent, disorders, hepatic, severe, urine, acute intermittent


Baidya et al. Journal of Medical Case Reports (2022) 16:490 CASE REPORT Open Access Porphyria: a case report Sujata Baidya1, Pratibha Kandel1, Smrity Rajkarnikar1, Anuradha Kadel1, Apeksha Niraula1* , Raju Kumar Dubey1, Machhindra Lamichhane2, Mithileshwer Raut1, Aseem Bhattarai1, Eans Tara Tuladhar1 and Vijay Kumar Sharma1 Abstract Background: Prompt diagnosis of metabolic disorders in a resource-limited country like Nepal is daunting. Acute intermittent porphyria is a rare but common hepatic porphyria mostly seen in females of the reproductive age group. As its incidence is quite uncommon, conjectures about porphyria diagnosis are often duped into a diagnostic conundrum. Case presentation: Here we unravel a case of a 15-year-old Hindu Nepalese girl distraught by the myriad of symp- toms in the setting of severe abdominal pain accompanied by constipation and limb pain as the chief complaints. She presented with acute severe hypertension with marked persistent hyponatremia (up to 109 mEq/L). Despite conservative management of hypertension and electrolytes, unresolved electrolyte imbalance led us to the specula- tion of disturbance in the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system. Due to her exacerbating neurovisceral status, she also required intensive care during the disease course. After thorough investigations and exemption of presumed diagnosis of porphyria-related disorders. Positive Watson-Schwartz test substantiated the diagnosis of acute intermit- tent porphyria. Her symptoms gradually abated after the consumption of high carbohydrate diets. Conclusion: This case highlights the baffling amalgamation of symptoms that simulate common diseases of con- cern yet are buried in the realm of porphyric disorders. Porphyria can be diagnosed using simple screening tools and timely treatment can diminish serious consequences. Keywords: Acute intermittent porphyria, Adolescent, Abdominal pain, Hyponatremia, Constipation Background precursors that mostly parade neurological symptoms Porphyrias are rare metabolic disorders, which comprise whereas late intermediates are porphyrins that are pho- a group of inherited and acquired disorders wherein tosensitive and manifest dermatological symptoms . there is a partial or complete deficiency of enzymes in the Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is the most common heme biosynthetic pathway . Disturbance in the heme form of inherited hepatic porphyrias seen in women of synthetic pathway causes the intermediates in these steps the reproductive age group. Factors that incite acute to accumulate. Marked as a “little imitator”, porphyria is attacks of porphyria include alcohol ingestion, a low-car- ing from neurovisceral symptoms to various dermatolog- procedures, and a variety of porphyrinogenic drugs . ical manifestations . Early intermediates are porphyrin Preliminary screening of AIP is done by
