Baidya et al. Journal of Medical Case Reports (2022) 16:490
KEYWORDS: porphyria, acute, pain, patient, diagnosis, symptoms, case, abdominal, abdominal pain, intermittent, disorders, hepatic, severe, urine, acute intermittent


Uni- while no organomegaly and renal bruits were noted. CNS versity Teaching Hospital with the complaint of severe examination showed the patient was normal with a Glas- abdominal pain for the last few days accompanied by gow Coma Scale (GCS) of 15/15. Comprehensive blood headache, nausea, vomiting, limb pain, and constipation. count was within the normal limits at the time of admis- The patient had similar episodes of acute abdominal sion except for a mild anemic picture with a hemoglobin pain twice before with no definite diagnosis explaining of 10.9 g/dl. her pain. Four months ago, she had her first episode of For the management of hypertension, amlodipine was abdominal pain, for which she was admitted to a private started. Polyethylene glycol was given for constipation. tertiary care hospital in Biratnagar for a presumed Intes- 3% NaCl infusion followed by oral salt replacement was tinal Obstruction due to fecal impaction. started to correct sodium levels. However, persistent In the second trivia of pain, she was again admitted to hyponatremia (up to 109 mEq/L) was the area of concern another private tertiary care hospital in Kathmandu for along with hypomagnesemia (ranging from 1.1 to 2.4 mg/ abdominal pain, constipation, pain in limbs, and hyper- dl). It raised the speculation of disturbance in the renin– tension. According to the informant, the patient was angiotensin–aldosterone system. After laboratory analy- essentially well 4 days before admission. The patient sis, serum aldosterone was 45.94 ng/dl (3.1–35.1 ng/dl in stated that the abdominal pain was acute at the onset, the upright position), direct renin 161.73 µIU/ml (4.67– originating at the left hypochondrium, which was non- 47.60 µIU/ml in the upright position), and aldosterone radiating, colicky, and burning in nature at the same time renin ratio (ARR) was 0.28. Urinary sodium output was with waxing and waning intensity. She also complained of also elevated (169 mEq/L). So unilateral renal artery ste- multiple episodes of vomiting which was non-bilious and nosis (RAS) was suspected. To confirm RAS, abdominal non-bloody in character, accompanied by loss of appe- doppler and pelvic CT investigations were requested. The tite. Also, she complained of intermittent constipation CT and Doppler report was normal, excluding the diag- for the past 3 months and a history of passing stool only nosis of renal artery stenosis. once a week. There was no history of fever, cough, head- Similarly, arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis was nor- ache, weight
