Baidya et al. Journal of Medical Case Reports (2022) 16:490
KEYWORDS: porphyria, acute, pain, patient, diagnosis, symptoms, case, abdominal, abdominal pain, intermittent, disorders, hepatic, severe, urine, acute intermittent


of passing stool only nosis of renal artery stenosis. once a week. There was no history of fever, cough, head- Similarly, arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis was nor- ache, weight loss, progressive paleness, swelling of the mal, which was against the metabolic alkalosis seen in body, haematuria, and loss of consciousness. During her Gitelman syndrome. To rule out an autoimmune cause, Labetalol infusion was started for acute severe hyperten- came out to be negative (Additional file 1). seizure, which was managed with anti-epileptics. In the abdominal pain, was not relieved even with morphine. laboratory test, the patient was found to have hypona- After all these thorough investigations, severe uncor- tremia. A presumed diagnosis of Gitelman Syndrome rected hyponatremia, severe body ache especially in the with chronic constipation and refractory hypokalemia lower limbs, and precipitation of the symptoms follow- was made. Apart from these, the patient did not have ing fasting ushered our conjectures toward the diagno- any other significant past medical history. She was then sis of porphyria-related disorders. With the suspicion referred to our center for further management. of porphyria, a urine sample was sent to Biochemistry She was admitted to Tribhuvan University Teach- Laboratory. Watson-Schwartz test was positive (Fig. 1); August 2022. On examination, the patient was alert and urine substantiating the diagnosis of acute porphyria well-oriented and she had no pallor, icterus, cyanosis, crisis. The urine color also darkened on exposure to lymphadenopathy, or edema. There was no blistering, light (Fig. 2). The symptoms were gradually relieved scarring, or erythema on the skin either. Detailed fam- with the consumption of carbohydrate-rich foods. ily history revealed no significant inherited disorders. Genetic confirmation of HMBS mutation was not pos- Likewise, there was no relevant past surgical, social or sible due to financial constraints. However, on the was counseled to avoid fasting. On follow-up examina- tomatic with normal blood pressure and bowel habit. Discussion and conclusion The prevalence of acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is estimated to be 5–10 cases per 100,000 persons . The disease is preponderant in females as compared to males and symptoms show up usually in adolescence . Despite an inherited disorder, about 90% of patients who inherit the disease may be asymptomatic for a life- time which marks the diagnostic challenge of the disease . AIP is not diagnosed over the shallow examination, rather it is a finding of exception after a series of expen- sive
