Baidya et al. Journal of Medical Case Reports (2022) 16:490
KEYWORDS: porphyria, acute, pain, patient, diagnosis, symptoms, case, abdominal, abdominal pain, intermittent, disorders, hepatic, severe, urine, acute intermittent


which marks the diagnostic challenge of the disease . AIP is not diagnosed over the shallow examination, rather it is a finding of exception after a series of expen- sive and time-consuming investigations, which can often go futile. The common clinical presentation of AIP includes altered mentation, and unexplained abdominal pain, chest and back pain . Apart from a single charac- teristic symptom like severe unresolving abdominal pain, other supportive histories for acute porphyria diagno- sis include dark/reddish urine, new-onset hypertension, hyponatremia, proximal muscle weakness, pain associ- ated with luteal phase in the menstrual cycle, use of exac- erbating drugs and low carbohydrate diets. Behavioral changes like irritability, hypertension and tachycardia are conundrums that dupe porphyria diagnosis . The clinical presentation of porphyria patients is baf- fling due to overlapping neurovisceral and systemic manifestations. Acute porphyrias are mostly presented with neurologic manifestations including neuropathic abdominal pain, peripheral neuropathy, and mental dis- turbances. Any impediment in the diagnosis of an acute porphyric attack may further aggravate the neurological symptoms inciting irreversible damage. Failure to iden- tify neurovisceral symptoms like muscle weaknesses at an early stage may cause the patient to succumb to respira- tory muscle paralysis, an important complication of por- phyria which is life-threatening . Timely diagnosis is a subject of clinical acuity in the management of por- Fig. 1 Watson-Schwartz test. a Urine color after the addition of phyria , which also aids in the exemption of alterna- 4-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde; b Urine color after the addition tive diagnosis. of first reagent and chloroform; to the left of the figure is patient’s The first-line treatment options for seizures include sample and to the right is the control sample phenytoin, valproate, benzodiazepines, and lacosamide, among which many are porphyrinogenic . The por- phyrinogenic anti-seizure drugs are metabolized by grounds of a strong clinical picture and screening for cytochrome p450 enzymes in the liver that leads to PBG in urine, a final diagnosis of acute intermittent increased heme synthesis, which results in increased porphyria was made. heme precursors further provoking the porphyria crises She was kept on a high-sugar diet as hemin was una- . Management of seizures with medications possess- vailable. Gradually her pain subsided, her blood pressure ing porphyrinogenic potential, unaware of the porphyric came to normal and her bowel habit also improved. Pre- status of the patient, can trigger acute attacks . gabalin was given for neuropathic pain, which was
