Baidya et al. Journal of Medical Case Reports (2022) 16:490
KEYWORDS: porphyria, acute, pain, patient, diagnosis, symptoms, case, abdominal, abdominal pain, intermittent, disorders, hepatic, severe, urine, acute intermittent


of the porphyric came to normal and her bowel habit also improved. Pre- status of the patient, can trigger acute attacks . gabalin was given for neuropathic pain, which was gradu- Neurological complications mostly comprise periph- ally tapered and stopped during follow-up. The patient eral neuropathy, acute encephalopathy, and acute Fig. 2 Changes in urine color on exposure to light (Day 1, Day 3, Day 5, Day 7) symptomatic seizures . Seizures in patients with por- is easily accessible and prompt, however they are not phyria may be precipitated by hyponatremia due to the included in the comprehensive workup for investigations syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone . in practice . Urine porphobilinogen and porphyrin Our patient presented with non-specific symptoms of normalized to creatinine is a recommended first-line porphyria upon admission but a gradual aggravation of testing for AHP . electrolyte imbalance. Hyponatremia during an acute Hemin is used for the therapeutic management of por- attack is also the presenting symptom in our case. These phyria but owing to its high cost and reduced availability conditions may arise due to hypothalamic involvement, in our context, we could not administer it. However, the inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, excess “glucose effect” is the commonly used mechanism as an gastrointestinal and renal sodium loss, vomiting, and alternative for management. Considerate carbohydrate resuscitation with large volumes of intravenous dextrose inclusion in diet checks the ALA synthase activity reduc- solution . The cardiac manifestations may be due to ing heme precursors . increased catecholamine production . Porphyrias are still the concern of diagnostic dilemma The clinical presentation of our case was similar to an making them highly underdiagnosed. Diagnostic delay adolescent boy in Nepal as described by Dhital et al. in can often cause the patients to undergo critical surgical which the patient dimly recalled precipitation of acute procedures like appendectomies or cholecystectomies abdomen after the episodes of fasting and low-calorie with writhing agony, multiple investigations, unneces- tor γ coactivator 1α (PGC-1α) in the liver that turns on Inappropriate treatment of porphyria may incite severe the the expression of ALAS-1 gene . Hence, uncon- life-threatening conditions like paresis and even death. trolled upregulation of ALA synthase enzyme leading to Driving the diagnostic protocol toward porphyria-related the accumulation of heme precursors causes precipita- disorders require high clinical suspicion. This disease can tion of acute porphyria attack in conditions of low-calo- be approached beforehand using simple screening
