Glucagon & Glucagonoma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: pubmed, glucagonoma, glucagon, patients, syndrome, neuroendocrine, tumors, glucagonoma syndrome, pancreatic, treatment, pancreas, receptor, free, associated, migratory erythema


ABSTRACT The glucagonoma syndrome is caused by a glucagon-secreting pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasm (panNEN)(glucagonoma). The syndrome includes: necrolytic migratory erythema, painful glossitis, cheilitis & stomatitis, weight loss, anemia, new-onset or worsening diabetes mellitus, hypoaminoacidemia, low zinc levels, deep vein thrombosis and depression. At diagnosis, a glucagonoma is usually larger than 4-5 cm in diameter and locoregional lymph node and distant metastases, particularly to the liver or bones are present. The incidence of glucagonoma syndrome is 1-2% of all panNENs. Approximately 10% of glucagonomas are associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1). Glucagonomas highly express somatostatin receptor subtypes and, therefore, somatostatin receptor positron emission tomography (PET) CT/MRI with 68 Ga- labelled somatostatin analogs (DOTATATE, DOTANOC, and DOTATOC) can be used in the localization of glucagonomas. The somatostatin receptor subtypes can also be utilized for peptide receptor radionuclide therapy with radiolabeled somatostatin analogs of metastatic glucagonomas. Other treatment options include supportive measures like amino acids, surgery, somatostatin analogs, sunitinib, everolimus, systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy, and liver-directed therapies. Glucagon cell hyperplasia and neoplasia of the endocrine pancreas is an autosomal recessive syndrome associated with hyperglucagonemia and is a genetically determined receptor disease, affecting the glucagon receptor. Patients with this disorder can develop multiple glucagonomas. However, the clinical presentation is NOT with the glucagonoma syndrome. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Glucagon is a 29-amino acid polypeptide hormone with a molecular mass of 3485 daltons, which is produced by alpha cells of the pancreas. Glucagon regulates not only glucose, but also amino acid and lipid metabolism. There is substantial evidence in humans that glucagon can also be produced outside the pancreas ( 1 ). A glucagonoma is a neuroendocrine neoplasm (NEN) secreting glucagon and pre-pro-glucagon-derived peptides. HISTORY In 1923, a hyperglycemic factor named “glucagon” was isolated from beef pancreas in Rochester, NY, USA by the biochemistry student Charles P. Kimball (1897-19..) and his mentor John R. Murlin (1874-1960) ( 2 - 5 ). In 1942, the US dermatologist S. William Becker (1894-1964) and colleagues were the first to describe the typical glucagonoma skin eruption in a patient with a pancreatic tumor ( 6 ). In 1963, Roger Unger and colleagues succeeded in recovering glucagon from extracts of pancreatic endocrine tumors found at autopsy ( 7 ). In 1966, the US pathologist Malcolm H. McGavran (1923-1999) and his associates published the first report on
