Glucagon & Glucagonoma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: pubmed, glucagonoma, glucagon, patients, syndrome, neuroendocrine, tumors, glucagonoma syndrome, pancreatic, treatment, pancreas, receptor, free, associated, migratory erythema


20 ). In rare cases, glucagonomas are associated with dilated cardiomyopathy that can be reversible after tumor control ( 21 , 22 ). However, the most distinct symptom in glucagonoma patients concerns skin lesions named necrolytic migratory erythema (NME) which occurs in 80% of patients ( 23 - 27 ). The NME has a characteristic distribution. It is usually widespread with major sites of involvement at the perioral and perigenital regions along with the fingers, legs, and feet ( 28 ). The rash starts as an erythematous lesion, progresses to form a bullous which ulcerates forming a depressed lesion that is surrounded by brown pigment ( Figure 2 ). Patients can suffer from itchy or painful lesions. The basic process in the skin seems to be one of superficial epidermal necrosis, fragile blister formation, crusting, and healing with hyperpigmentation ( 17 ). Different stages of the cutaneous lesions may be present simultaneously ( 17 ). A painful glossitis manifested by an erythematous, mildly atrophic tongue has been associated with the cutaneous lesions ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Glossitisin a glucagonoma patient. Picture included with the informed consent of the patient. Figure 2. Necrolytic migratory erythema in a glucagonoma patient. Pictures included with the informed consent of the patient. The typical clinical presentation of glucagonoma is with a tumor size larger than 4-5 cm in diameter and metastatic dissemination has already occurred, particularly in the locoregional lymph nodes, liver, and bones ( 19 , 29 ). Secondary, or metachronous glucagon secretion in panNENs which previously were non-secreting, or secreted other peptide hormones, can also occur and is usually associated with a poor prognosis ( 30 , 31 ). The clinical incidence of glucagonomas is estimated at 1-2% of panNENs and about 1-2 cases per million population ( 32 , 33 ). The average age of patient at diagnosis is 52.5 years, with a slight higher prevalence in females ( 15 ). The 10-year survival of a localized (and subsequently surgically resected) glucagonoma is nearly 100%, but decreases to 50% in the presence of metastatic disease ( 15 , 28 , 34 , 35 ). The median survival time for glucagonomas is 7.7 years ( 20 , 36 , 37 ). About 10% of glucagonomas are diagnosed in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1)( 38 , 39 ). GLUCAGON CELL HYPERPLASIA AND NEOPLASIA A second, however rare, autosomal recessive
