Glucagon & Glucagonoma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: pubmed, glucagonoma, glucagon, patients, syndrome, neuroendocrine, tumors, glucagonoma syndrome, pancreatic, treatment, pancreas, receptor, free, associated, migratory erythema


About 10% of glucagonomas are diagnosed in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1)( 38 , 39 ). GLUCAGON CELL HYPERPLASIA AND NEOPLASIA A second, however rare, autosomal recessive syndrome associated with hyperglucagonemia is glucagon cell hyperplasia and neoplasia (GCHN) of the endocrine pancreas ( Mahvash syndrome) ( 40 , 41 ). GCNH is a genetically determined receptor disease, affecting the glucagon receptor (GCGR). GCGR inactivation interrupts glucagon signaling in the liver, leading to disturbed metabolism of glycogen, fatty acids and amino acids. Altered function of the liver cells subsequently results in hyperplastic changes of the glucagon cells of the pancreatic islets, followed by hyperglucagonemia and the development of multiple glucagon producing NENs ( 41 , 42 ). In one GCHN case, a lymph node micro-metastasis was found ( 42 ) Patients are middle-aged adults who present with non-specific symptoms such as fatigue, abdominal pain, diabetes, or acute pancreatitis. Despite very high serum glucagon levels, none of the GCHN patients with GCGR mutations showed a glucagonoma syndrome, owing to the interrupted signaling of the GCGR. The only reported GCHN patient with a glucagonoma syndrome and NME harbored a wild type GCGR ( 42 )). The pancreatic NEN (panNEN) can be visualized by somatostatin receptor imaging, since the glucagon cells express somatostatin receptor subtypes ( 43 ). GCHN follows a benign clinical course for most patients. However, follow-up of the patients is suggested, as the tumors have a metastatic potential. Glucagon also increases hepatic amino acid turnover, and thus lowers postprandial serum amino acid levels. This disturbed amino acid metabolism probably plays the most important role in the development of GCHN. The impaired glucagon signaling in the liver of GCHN patients results in chronically elevated serum amino acid levels which stimulate the secretion and proliferation of glucagon cells, leading to hyperglucagonemia, glucagon cell hyperplasia, and finally to NENs. GLUCAGONOMA DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of the glucagonoma syndrome is based on the combination of elevated plasma glucagon levels and glucagonoma symptoms as described above. Mild elevated glucagon levels may be associated with several other diseases like cirrhosis, chronic renal failure, sepsis, acute or chronic pancreatitis, chronic hepatic failure, Cushing's syndrome, acute trauma, diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis, stress, burns, portocaval shunting, other NENs and familial hyperglucagonemia ( 44 ). However, a fasting plasma glucagon >500 pg/ml (reference range, 70–160 pg/ml) is diagnostic for glucagonoma ( 45 ). Anatomic and functional imaging modalities are
