Glucagon & Glucagonoma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: pubmed, glucagonoma, glucagon, patients, syndrome, neuroendocrine, tumors, glucagonoma syndrome, pancreatic, treatment, pancreas, receptor, free, associated, migratory erythema


and familial hyperglucagonemia ( 44 ). However, a fasting plasma glucagon >500 pg/ml (reference range, 70–160 pg/ml) is diagnostic for glucagonoma ( 45 ). Anatomic and functional imaging modalities are important in the localization of a glucagonoma. As in other NENs, 3-phase CT or MRI scans must be performed for the precise localization of these tumors in the pancreas. Since glucagonomas express high numbers of different somatostatin, somatostatin receptor imaging has been used to detect distant metastases and scan-positivity has been reported in up to 97% of glucagonoma patients, ( 35 , 46 ). Currently, positron emission tomography (PET)-CT with 68 Ga-labelled somatostatin analogs (SSAs) (DOTATATE, DOTANOC, DOTATOC) has the highest sensitivity for detecting metastases of G1-2 and some G3 pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (panNETs) ( 47 ). In line with the work-up for all NENs, a biopsy is advised to confirm the diagnosis and for grading (Ki67 index), as the grade can influence treatment selection ( 48 ). An overview of the current staging and grading systems is provided in the chapter “Insulinoma” ( 49 ). Tumor cells are positive for general neuroendocrine markers, glucagon, and somatostatin receptor subtype 2a. ( 28 ). Skin biopsies of NME usually show psoriasiform hyperplasia of the epidermis, pallor of keratinocytes, vacuolated or dyskeratotic keratinocytes, necrosis of the upper epidermis and perivascular inflammation ( 17 ). The diagnosis of glucagonoma relies on the presence of the glucagonoma syndrome and not on glucagon immunoreactivity in tumor cells alone. PanNENs composed of glucagon-immunoreactive cells but lacking symptoms of the glucagonoma syndrome are defined as “non-functioning glucagon-producing PanNENs”. They are frequently small and indolent tumors associated with an excellent prognosis, while glucagonomas are larger and more frequently metastatic neoplasms ( 50 ). TREATMENT OF GLUCAGONOMA Supportive Measures Supportive therapy (also initiated before surgery) includes amino acid infusions ( 51 ), essential fatty acids, topic or oral zinc therapies, vitamins, minerals, and glucose control ( 52 ). Also, anticoagulant therapy has been recommended because of the increased risk of thrombosis ( 16 , 17 ). Necrotic Migratory Erythema Therapy Response Almost invariably, the NME resolves after successful removal of a glucagon-producing tumor, even if the rash has been present for several years ( 25 , 53 ). The NME also improves in patients who do not undergo curative resection but are treated with SSAs ( 54 , 55 ), everolimus, or peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) with radiolabeled
