Glucagon & Glucagonoma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: pubmed, glucagonoma, glucagon, patients, syndrome, neuroendocrine, tumors, glucagonoma syndrome, pancreatic, treatment, pancreas, receptor, free, associated, migratory erythema


NME also improves in patients who do not undergo curative resection but are treated with SSAs ( 54 , 55 ), everolimus, or peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) with radiolabeled SSAs ( 56 - 58 ). Impressive improvement of the NME with amino acid repletion has also been described ( 29 , 51 , 59 ). Surgery As for all panNENs, surgery is the only curative treatment. In the occasional patient in whom a glucagonoma is discovered while the tumor is locoregionally confined, pancreatic surgery (enucleation, distal pancreatectomy with or without splenectomy, central pancreatectomy, pancreaticoduodenectomy and total pancreatectomy) should be performed to remove the glucagonoma ( 60 , 61 ). Post-surgery, symptoms of the glucagonoma syndrome will resolve within weeks ( 25 ). In selected patients with limited liver metastases an extended surgical resection can also be considered ( 62 ). Preoperative preparation is required including correction of malnutrition and hyperglycemia. Somatostatin analogs (SSAs) should be started to reverse the catabolic state and improve the skin rash ( 63 ). Prophylactic measures to prevent venous thrombosis, including the use of low-molecular weight heparin, should be applied to all patients during the perioperative period ( 29 ). In case of unresectable metastases, treatment is focused on tumor stabilization and symptom reduction by decreasing the secretion of glucagon. In general, anti-tumor therapy is similar to non-functioning panNENs as specific data for glucagonoma is often lacking. The guidelines by ENETS, NANETS and ESMO describe the selection and sequencing of SSAs, targeted therapy, PRRT with radiolabeled SSAs and cytotoxic chemotherapy ( 29 , 64 , 65 ). Somatostatin Analogs SSAs are the first-line palliative treatments to control glucagon secretion and tumor growth ( 46 ). In a randomized controlled trial (CLARINET), including G1-2 panNENs, treatment with lanreotide autogel 120 mg every 4 weeks deep sc was associated with significantly prolonged median progression-free survival (PFS) of 38 months versus 18 months for placebo ( 66 ). Moreover, SSAs have been reported to decrease the NME ( 29 , 56 ). Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy Peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) with 177 Lu-DOTATATE results in a response rate of 55% for panNENs, with a median PFS of 30 months and median overall survival (OS) of 71 months ( 67 ). PRRT with 177 Lu-DOTATATE for the treatment of metastatic glucagonoma has been described in small case series ( 58 , 68 ). The radiological response rate
