Glucagon & Glucagonoma Syndrome
KEYWORDS: pubmed, glucagonoma, glucagon, patients, syndrome, neuroendocrine, tumors, glucagonoma syndrome, pancreatic, treatment, pancreas, receptor, free, associated, migratory erythema


months ( 67 ). PRRT with 177 Lu-DOTATATE for the treatment of metastatic glucagonoma has been described in small case series ( 58 , 68 ). The radiological response rate of glucagonomas seems to be comparable to that observed in patients with clinically non-functioning G1-2 panNETs. Of additional value is the high symptomatic response rate (71%) and the increase in quality of life after treatment with 177 Lu-DOTATATE ( 29 , 58 ). Everolimus Everolimus is registered for the second-line treatment of G1-2 panNENs based on the result of the RADIANT-3 trial. In this study, 24% of patients had a functioning (= hormone-secreting) panNEN and everolimus treatment was associated with a (statistically not significant) overall survival benefit of 6.3 months ( 69 , 70 ). Everolimus was found to decrease plasma glucagon levels in patients with elevated plasma glucagon levels ( 71 ). However, median plasma glucagon levels in these patients were only 1.5 times the upper limit of normal suggesting that they did not suffer from the classical glucagonoma syndrome. Since everolimus can also worsen diabetes mellitus by reducing insulin secretion from the pancreas and inducing insulin resistance, its contribution to the treatment of glucagonoma patients is still unclear ( 29 ). Sunitinib In a randomized controlled trial in patients with G1-2 panNENs, second-line sunitinib treatment (37.5 mg/day) resulted in an increased progression-free survival by 5.9 months compared to placebo ( 72 , 73 ). In this trial, 5 glucagonoma patients (3%) were enrolled ( 72 ). However, the radiological and symptomatic response for this subgroup of glucagonoma patients was not separately reported ( 29 , 72 , 73 ). Chemotherapy Treatment of 18 glucagonoma patients with streptozotocin (STZ) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) resulted in an objective response in 50% of patients ( 35 ). Chemotherapy with capecitabine and temozolomide is also effective for the treatment of panNENs, but no specific data for glucagonoma are available ( 29 , 74 , 75 ). Liver-Directed Therapy As severity of the glucagonoma syndrome is associated with tumor burden, reducing liver tumor burden could potentially reduce symptoms of glucagonoma as well. In patients with liver-dominant disease, liver metastases can be resected or treated by bland embolization, radioembolization (SIRT), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), microwave and cryoablation, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), laser, brachytherapy and irreversible electroporation (IRE) depending on local availability ( 76 ). REFERENCES 1. Holst JJ. Glucagon 100 years. Important, but still enigmatic. Peptides.
