Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


Natural Disaster Mitigation and Relief Claude de Ville de Goyet, Ricardo Zapata Marti, and Claudio Osorio Sudden-onset natural and technological disasters impose a tims.What would be aminor incident in a large country may indirectly on the capacity ofthe health services to address pri- only are“quantitative definitions ofdisasters unworkably sim- ble diseases and disasters merits special attention.This chapter the economic toll or the number of deaths,they are also mis- does not address epidemics of emerging or reemerging dis- leading with regard to the immediate health needs of the eases,chronic degradation ofthe environment,progressive cli- survivors or their long-term impact on the affected country. temporary settlements. Classification of Disasters In line with the definition ofhealthadopted in the constitu- In the early 1970s,a series ofwell-publicized disasters (the civil war and resulting famine in Biafra,the cyclone in Bangladesh, and the earthquake in Peru) triggered the scientific interest of “disease,” should be the subject of epidemiological analysis, the international public health community. systematic control, and prevention, rather than merely as an Disasters can be classified as natural disasters, technological emergency medicine or humanitarian matter. The chapter disasters, or complex emergencies.The latter include civil wars stresses the interdependency between long-term sustainable and conflicts.These classifications are arbitrary and refer to the development and catastrophic events,leading to the conclusion immediate trigger—a natural phenomenon or hazard (biolog- that neither can be addressed in isolation. ical,geological,or climatic);a technologically originated prob- lem; or a conflict. In reality, all disasters are complex events DISASTERS AS A PUBLIC HEALTH CONDITION stemming from the interaction ofexternal phenomena and the vulnerability ofman and society. According to the International Federation of Red Cross and The human responsibility in so-called natural disasters is Red Crescent Societies, internationally reported disasters in well acknowledged. The term natural disaster remains com- 2002 affected 608 million people worldwide and killed monly used and should not be understood as denying a major 24,532—well below the preceding decade’s annual average human responsibility for the consequences. mortality of62,000 .Many more were affected by myriad local disasters that escaped international notice. Disaster Terminology Disasterhas multiple and changing definitions.The essential common element of those definitions is that disasters are The following definitions are adapted from those proposed by unusual public health events that overwhelm the coping capac- the Secretariat of the International Strategy for Disaster ity of the affected community. This concept precludes the Reduction (ISDR),a United Nations (UN) body established to universal adoption ofa threshold number
