Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


the Secretariat of the International Strategy for Disaster ity of the affected community. This concept precludes the Reduction (ISDR),a United Nations (UN) body established to universal adoption ofa threshold number ofcasualties or vic- sustain the efforts of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction (UN/ISDR 2004) and the WHO World US$ billions Percentage of GDP Health Report 2002: 700 16 • Hazards are potentially damaging physical events, which 600 14 may cause loss oflife,injury,or property damage.Each haz- 12 ard is characterized by its location,intensity,frequency,and probability. 400 • Vulnerability is a set of conditions resulting from physical, 8 social, economic, and environmental factors that increase 6 the susceptibility of a community to the effects of hazards. 200 A strong coping capacity—that is,the combination ofall the strengths and resources available within a community—will 100 2 reduce its vulnerability. 0 0 • Riskis the probability ofharmful consequences (health bur- Richest Nations Poorest Nations den) or economic losses resulting from the interactions Economic losses Losses as percentage of GDP between natural or human-induced hazards and vulnerable or capable conditions. In a simplified manner, risk is Source: UN/ISDR, 2004. expressed by the following function: Figure 61.1 Disaster Losses, Total and as Share of Gross Domestic Risk (cid:1)ƒ (Hazards (cid:2)Vulnerability) Product, in the Richest and Poorest Nations, 1985–99 A public health approach to disaster risk management will Annual growth of GDP in Ecuador compared with preceding year (percent) aim to decrease the vulnerability by adopting prevention and mitigation measures to reduce the physical impact and to increase the coping capacity and preparedness of the health sector and community, in addition to providing traditional emergency care (response) once the disaster has occurred. Distribution and Risk Factors Healthandrelativeeconomiclossesofnaturaldisastersdispro- portionately affect developing countries (Alexander 1997; UN/ISDR 2004). More than 90 percent of natural disaster– relateddeathsoccurindevelopingcountries.Eventhoughthe economiclossesarefargreaterinindustrialcountries,theper- centageoflossesinrelationtogrossnationalproduct(GNP)in developing countries far exceeds that percentage in industrial countries(figure61.1).Atanindividuallevel,asuddenreduction ofUS$5,000fromanannualincomeofUS$50,000isworrisome; however,theongoinglossofUS$50fromamonthlyincomeof US$100maybecatastrophic. Forthisreason,statisticsofeconomicdamageandmortality Hydrometeorological hazards do not follow a well- alone are not true indicators of the effect of disasters on the established distribution.Although the areas subject to seasonal healthanddevelopmentofpeopleandcommunities. flood, drought, or tropical storms (cyclones, hurricanes, or Disasterimpactstatisticsshowaglobaltrend:moredisasters typhoons) are well known locally,global warming may possibly occur,butfewerpeopledie;largerpopulationsareaffected,and redraw the map ofclimatic disasters.As the National Research economiclossesareincreasing(IFRC2000). Council (1999,34–35) notes,“This change is far from uniform. occuratrandom.Geologicalhazards(earthquakesandvolcanic warming is concentrated in northern Asia . . . while large eruptions)occuronlyalongthefaultlinesbetweentwotectonic regions ofthe northern Pacific and North Atlantic Oceans and platesonlandorontheoceanfloor.However,thelocalpopula- their neighboring shores have
