Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


elderly, or sick tive and preventive (indirect impact). adults following the 1970 tidal wave in Bangladesh (250,000 dead or missing) illustrates this point. nature of the hazard. National health budgets of developing countries are, in normal times, insufficient to meet the basic Gender Reports on immediate morbidity and mortality health needs ofthe population.In the aftermath ofa major dis- according to gender are not as conclusive.An Inter-American aster, authorities need to meet extraordinary rehabilitation Development Bank paper indicated that 54 percent of the demands with resources that often have been drained by the 3,045 people who died as a result of Hurricane Mitch in emergency response (as distinct from the resources destroyed Nicaragua were male . Stereotypes of gender vul- by the event).Beyond the immediate response,decision mak- nerability at the time ofimpact often do not apply.Depending ing in the allocation ofresources among sectors is mostly influ- on the type ofdisaster,far more significant vulnerability factors enced by the magnitude ofthe economic losses rather than by therefore, the occupational activity of each group) and the or DALY,losses) or social costs. structural vulnerability ofhousing,factories,and public build- ings,including the location ofthe victims within the buildings. Earthquakes. As noted by Buist and Bernstein (1986),in the Following disasters,increased vulnerability of women is com- past five centuries, earthquakes caused more than 5 million monly noted in temporary settlements, where violence and deaths—20 times the number caused by volcanic eruptions.In be available (Armenian and others 1997). (most of which are not life-threatening) require immediate Poverty Economic vulnerability might play a much greater damaged,or totally destroyed,as was the case in the earthquake role than age and gender.What has been noted regarding the in Bam, Iran, in 2003. In the aftermath of that earthquake, community and family levels. Disasters predominantly affect ofthe city was destroyed.All traumas were evacuated by air to the poor. Poverty increases vulnerability because of the the 13 Iranian provinces long before the arrival ofthe first for- unequal opportunity for healthy and safe environments,poor eign mobile hospitals.Table 61.1 illustrates the accelerated pace education and risk awareness, and limited coping capacity.A with which priorities evolve and overlap in the first week fol- notable exception was the 2004 tsunami in Banda Aceh, lowing an earthquake. Indonesia, where the middle- and upper-class neighborhood After a few weeks,national political solidarity and external close to the shore was particularly affected. assistance wane,and the local budgetary resources are drained. nomically disadvantaged populations in highly
