Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


upper-class neighborhood After a few weeks,national political solidarity and external close to the shore was particularly affected. assistance wane,and the local budgetary resources are drained. nomically disadvantaged populations in highly vulnerable of providing services to a displaced population,rehabilitating Natural Disaster Mitigation and Relief | 1149 Table 61.1 Health Priorities Following Earthquakes Priority Time period Comments Search and rescue 0 to 48(cid:4)hours Returns are rapidly diminishing. Most effective work is done by local teams. Trauma care 0 to 48 hours: initial lifesaving carea External assistance generally arrives too late for initial care. Traumas may 48 hours to 6 months: secondary care include burns and crush syndrome, especially in urban areas. Paraplegics and amputees require long-term care. Routine medical emergencies and Resumes as soon as the need for acute Emergencies include earthquake-related cardiovascular emergencies and primary health care lifesaving care subsides (within 24 hours) premature births. Attention to the dead Varies. Not a public health issue but a Priorities are identification and ritual burial. social and political one Disease surveillance Urgent—within 48 hours, unsubstantiated Surveillance is a sensitive public information and education issue. A simple, rumors of impending epidemics will be syndrome-based system is needed that will involve humanitarian circulating organizations. Provision of safe water A predominant issue within 48 hours The challenge is to provide a sufficient quantity of reasonably safe water. Temporary shelter 48 hours to several months Sanitation and provision of health services is a main issue. Accommodating families near their residence is preferable to setting up camps. Provision of food 3 days to 6 weeks Food provision is a social or economic issue. Food stocks and agricultural output are not affected by earthquakes. Source:de Ville de Goyet 2001. municable disease surveillance and control, and attending to (1986) following the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens the long-term consequences, such as permanent disabilities, (United States) reviewed the transient,acute irritant effects of in rates of heart disease and chronic disease morbidity and upper respiratory tract as well as the exacerbation of (Armenian,Melkonian,and Hovanesian 1998). chronic lung diseases with heavy ash fall. Concentrations of volcanic gases are rapidly diluted to nonlethal levels,which lead Tsunamis. Earthquakes on the ocean floor may cause cata- to inconvenience but negligible morbidity for the general pub- strophic tidal waves (tsunamis) on faraway shores. Waves lic. Lava flows present little health risk because of their very caused by the seismic event crest at less than a meter
