Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


strophic tidal waves (tsunamis) on faraway shores. Waves lic. Lava flows present little health risk because of their very caused by the seismic event crest at less than a meter in open slow speed ofprogression.Mortality caused by ballistic projec- seas,but they are travel several hundred kilometers per hour,so tiles from a volcanic eruption is minimal. when they reach shallow waters, they can be 10 meters high. Attention to these public concerns may distract the author- Damage on the coast can be extensive.Usually,the number of ities from preparing for the greatest factors of mortality: the survivors presenting severe injuries is small in proportion to pyroclastic flows (Mount Pelé in Martinique, in 1902, with the number ofdeaths. 29,000 deaths) and lahars.Lahars are mud flows or mud and Volcanic Eruptions. Volcanoes persist as a serious public ash flows caused by the rapid melting of a volcano’s snowcap, ties and communities lulled by long periods of inactivity. rains on unstable accumulations ofash,as in the Philippines in Eruptions are preceded by a period of volcanic activity,which 1991.Historically,pyroclastic explosions or lahars have caused provides an opportunity for scientific monitoring, warning, about 90 percent ofthe casualties from volcanic eruptions. and timely evacuation. Potential contamination ofwater supplies by minerals from Some issues,such as ash fall,lethal gases,lava flow,and pro- ash; displacement of large populations for an undetermined jectiles, although of concern to the public, are of minimal period oftime (over five years in Montserrat,a small island in health significance: Ash fall causes a significant burden on the Caribbean);accompanying sanitation problems;and men- medical services but is unlikely to result in excess mortality tal health needs are of great public health significance (PAHO or significant permanent problems. However, ash fall affects 2002a).Among the long-term problems,the risk ofdeveloping transportation, communications, water sources, treatment silicate pneumoconiosis requires further investigation.1 1150 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Claude de Ville de Goyet, Ricardo Zapata Marti, and Claudio Osorio have learned to live with seasonal floods ofmoderate intensity. admissions from common diarrheal diseases,acute respiratory Periodically, the magnitude of the phenomenon exceeds the infections,dermatitis,and other causes should be expected fol- local coping capacity and overwhelms the resources of the lowing most disasters (Howard, Brillman, and Burkle 1996; health systems. The health burden associated with seasonal Malilay and others 1996). This increase may reflect duplicate floods is well known locally: increased incidence of diarrheal reporting (diarrhea cases were reported through both the diseases,respiratory infections,dermatitis,and snake
