Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


to adjust their the event. Economic valuation rests on the basic concepts of willingness to pay to absorb the additional expenses ofalterna- direct damage and indirect losses. tive (private) providers ofcare. Direct damage is defined as the material losses that occur The same approach applies to the economic valuation of as an immediate consequence of a disaster.2 Direct damage is lives lost.Kirigia and others (2004) found a statistically signifi- measured first in physical terms. The physical loss includes cant impact ofdisaster-related mortality on the GDP ofAfrican assets,capital,and material things that can be counted:hospi- countries. One single disaster death reduced the GDP per tal beds lost,equipment and medicines destroyed,damaged or capita by US$0.01828.Lost lives are given a higher economic affected health service installations (number and type ofinstal- value in places where productivity is high. lations, stocks of medicines, laboratory facilities, operating Because economic valuation uses standard sectored proce- rooms,and so on),and pipes and water plants destroyed. dures that allow comparability of results,it can be used in the The physical plant then is valued both in terms of dis- decision-making process and for policy formulation since it counted present value and estimated replacement cost.Recon- identifies sectors, geographical areas, and vulnerable groups structing facilities with the same vulnerability and level of that are more severely affected economically.Over the years,a service as before would be unacceptable; the affected health number ofconceptual improvements have been made to allow infrastructure must be replaced by more resilient and efficient for the measurement of aspects not included in national installations to ensure better and sustainable service.This need accounting systems—to bring attention to environmental is most evident in developing countries where impacts tend to losses as a cross-cutting issue;to highlight the contribution of be concentrated in those most at risk (the poor,marginalized, specific groups, namely women, as agents for change; and to and less resilient sectors ofthe population). focus on the better management ofboth the emergency and the Indirect effects refer to production ofgoods and services that reconstruction processes.It is also a valuable tool for prepared- will not occur as an outcome of the disaster,reduced income ness and mitigation offuture damage. associated with those activities not occurring, and increased Table61.2summarizesthevaluationsmadebyECLACover costs to provide those goods and services. theyearsforLatinAmericaandtheCaribbeanintermsofdeaths, both the income losses associated with the diminished supply interestarethedecreaseinthenumberofdeathsandtheincrease ofhealth care services and the increased costs ofproviding the intotaldamage(inparticular,indirectdamage)overtime. services following the disaster. Indirect effects are valued at The distribution
