Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


objectives, US$550 million . Hurricane Gilbert (1988) which are oriented almost exclusively to increasing the cover- damaged 24 ofthe 26 hospitals on Jamaica,and the El Salvador age of these services,with the long-term objective of reducing earthquake (2001) resulted in the loss of 2,000 beds—40 per- vulnerability to extreme natural hazards. cent of the country’s hospital capacity . The health burden is not limited to the loss of medical care. The INTERVENTIONS: FROM RESPONSE control ofcommunicable diseases and other public health pro- grams suffer from loss of laboratory support and diagnostic TOPREVENTION capabilities ofhospitals.Further research on the actual impact The immediate lifesaving response time is much shorter than ofthese losses,in terms ofDALYs,is essential. humanitarianorganizationsrecognize.Inamatterofweeks,if Acommonmisperceptionisthatdamagetocriticalhealth notdays,theconcernsof boththepopulationandauthorities facilitiesispromptlyrepaired.Experienceshowsthatdamaged shiftfromsearchandrescueandtraumacaretotherehabilita- healthinfrastructurerecoversataslowerpacethaninfrastruc- tionof infrastructure(temporaryrestorationof basicservices ture in other service sectors, such as trade, roads, bridges, and reconstruction). In Banda Aceh, Indonesia, after the telecommunications,andevenhousing.Forexample,asaresult December2004tsunami,victimswereeagertoreturntonor- oftheearthquakethataffectedElSalvadorin1986,renovation malcywhileexternalmedicalreliefworkerswerestillarrivingin ofthegeneralhospital,themostsophisticatedreferralhospital largenumbers. inthecapital,wascompleted15yearsaftertheearthquake.The only national pediatric facility was fully rehabilitated and Response and Rehabilitation strengthenedsixyearsaftertheearthquake.Twoyearsafterthe earthquake of 2001 in El Salvador, several key hospitals still Immediateemergencyresponseisprovidedunderahighlypolit- remained vacated or services were transferred to unsuitable icalandemotionalclimate.Thepublicdemandsvisible,albeit temporaryfacilities.Thefactorsaremany:lowpriorityassigned perhapsunnecessary,measuresattheexpenseofprovenlow-key toanonproductivesector,thesector’sinexperienceindevelop- approaches. The international community, eager to demon- ingcomprehensiveproposalsforfunding,conflictingattempts strateitssolidarityortoexerciseits“rightofhumanitarianinter- to use the reconstruction process to influence the ongoing vention,”undertakesitsownreliefeffortonthebasisofthebelief complicatednegotiationprocessforloans,andtheadministra- belatedarrivalofmedicalorfact-findingteamsaddtothestress tiveinexperienceofthehealthsectorinexecutinglargeinvest- oflocalstaffmemberswhomaybepersonallyaffectedbythedis- mentprojects.Indeed,fewlargehealthinstallationshavebeen aster.Theculturaldisregardofthehumanitariancommunityto builtdirectlybydevelopingcountriesinthepastdecades. cost-effectiveapproachesintimesofdisasterandthetendencyto base decisions on perceptions and myths rather than on facts Damage to Water and Sewage Systems The primary goal of andlessonslearnedinpastdisasterscontributetomakingdisas- water and sewage systems is to safeguard the public health of terreliefoneoftheleastcost-effectivehealthactivities. part ofthe health infrastructure. ties are significant. Natural Disaster Mitigation and Relief | 1153 AssessmentoftheHealthSituation. A country’s ministry of EnvironmentalHealth. Typicalinterventionsintheaftermath healthisexpectedtoassessthehealthsituation.Toinfluencethe ofdisastersincludestrengtheningthemonitoringandsurveil- courseofhumanitarianresponse,thisassessmentmustberapid lance of water quality, vector control, excreta disposal, solid and, therefore, simple; transparent in collaboration with the wastemanagement,healtheducation,andfoodsafety. main actors—nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and Afirstpriorityiswatersupply.Itisoftenpreferabletohave donors;andtechnicallycredible.TheinputofWHO,asthelead a large quantity of reasonably potable water than a smaller agencyinhealthmatters,ismostvaluable.Confusionshouldbe amountofhigh-qualitywater(UNHCR1998).Massivedistri- avoidedbetweenassessingemergencyneedsandinventorying butionofwaterpurificationdisinfectantscanbeeffectiveifthe orvaluatingthedamage.Inthefirsthoursordays,reliefactors public is already familiar with their use and not confused by base their decision making on the ministry of health’s assess- the availability of many different brands and concentrations ment of what is required and,more importantly,what is not ofdonatedchemicals. community will request detailed data,such as the number of ulations in shelters, temporary camps, collective kitchens, or personsaffected,buildingsdamaged,andmonetaryvaluation. prepared food distribution centers. The cost-effectiveness of the external relief effort could Mass Casualties Treatment. Following natural disasters, often be increased by shifting resources from the overattended hospitalcapacitymaybeconsiderablyreducedbyactualdam- medical response to the improvement ofenvironmental health age to
