Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


the external relief effort could Mass Casualties Treatment. Following natural disasters, often be increased by shifting resources from the overattended hospitalcapacitymaybeconsiderablyreducedbyactualdam- medical response to the improvement ofenvironmental health age to the facility or, in the case of a seismic event, an often in temporary settlements. unnecessary—but hard to reverse—evacuation. Triage of patientsisrequiredinordertofirsttreatthoselikelytobenefit Transparent Management of Donations and Supplies. If most,ratherthantheterminallyinjuredorthosewhosecarecan donationsandsuppliesaremanagedtransparentlyduringthe be delayed.Lifesaving primary care takes place in the first six emergency,theflowof assistancetotheintendedbeneficiaries hours(thegoldenruleofemergencymedicine),makingmostof willbeimproved.Unsolicitedandofteninappropriatemedical theforeignfieldhospitalsirrelevantforintensiveacutecareof donations compete with valuable relief supplies for scarce traumas(WHOandPAHO2003).Effectivenessof immediate logistical resources. Good governance is critical, and effective carewilldependonlocalpreparednessbeforethedisaster,not logisticscannotbeimprovisedfollowingadisaster.Ahuman- onfarawayresources. itarian supply management system developed by PAHO and WHO successfully helped developing countries improve Strengthened Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of transparency and accountability in managing humanitarian CommunicableDiseases. Becausethesurveillance,prevention, supplies and donations (deVille de Goyet,Acosta,and others and control of communicable diseases are strengthened, the 1996). anticipatedmassiveoutbreaksgenerallydonotactuallyoccur. Traditional surveillance systems that are based on periodic Coordination ofthe Humanitarian Health Effort. Coordina- notification ofdiseases by the health services are inadequate in tion ofthe humanitarian health effort is essential to maximize a crisis situation. Early warning requires flexible and simple the benefit of the response effort and ensure its compatibility syndrome-based monitoring in temporary settlements and with the public health development priorities of the affected country.Effective coordination in the health sector must do the cial health services but also by the medical humanitarian following: organizations. Systems that do not include consultation with NGOs are unlikely to succeed. Disease control programs in place before the disaster are the • Be comprehensive and include all external health actors. fruit oflocal experience and external technical advice.In a dis- • Bebasedonmutualrespectratherthanregulatoryauthority aster situation,there is generally no need to resort to new and alone. Dialogue and consultation are more effective than expensive control measures. The key is to quickly resume, enforcement. strengthen,and better monitor the routine control programs. • Benefit all parties,starting with the victims.It should aim to No public health concerns justify the hurried disposal of support and facilitate the activities ofother partners. corpses through mass burial or unceremonious incineration. • Be evidence-based and transparent.Information is made to This practice is socially and culturally damaging.In addition, be shared and used,not jealously guarded. improvised mass immunization campaigns, especially by external reliefgroups,should be discouraged in favor ofoppor- Coordination cannot be improvised in the aftermath of a tunistically strengthening national routine immunization disaster. Preparedness before the occurrence of the hazard is coverage,especially in temporary
