Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


discouraged in favor ofoppor- Coordination cannot be improvised in the aftermath of a tunistically strengthening national routine immunization disaster. Preparedness before the occurrence of the hazard is coverage,especially in temporary settlements. essential. 1154 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Claude de Ville de Goyet, Ricardo Zapata Marti, and Claudio Osorio Emergency Preparedness of the Health Sector Prevention and Mitigation Effective response by national health authorities cannot be The slogan “prevention is better than cure”was invented by the capacitybuildingbeforeemergencieshavegenerallyexperienced concept of preventing deaths and injuries from disasters serious difficulties in exercising their technical and political through the mitigation (that is, reduction) of damage to its leadership in the immediate aftermath of a disaster. Disaster own facilities.As is unfortunately often the case,political action preparedness is primarily a matter of building institutional is often triggered only by a major disaster,such as the collapse capacityandhumanresources,notoneof investingheavilyin ofHospital Juarez in Mexico in the earthquake of1985;in that advancedtechnologyandequipment. disaster 561 patients and employees died, . Building local coping capacity is one of the most cost- Evaluating the damage (the past vulnerability) helps establish effective ways to improve the quality of the national response mitigation criteria for the future. and the external interventions. The level ofprotection required for each health installation Disaster preparedness is not merely having a disaster plan must be negotiated—from life protection, which prevents an written by experts.It must involve the following: immediate structural collapse to permit the evacuation ofpeo- ple;to investment protection,which minimized the economic • Identifying vulnerability to natural or other hazards. The losses;to operational protection,which guarantees the sustain- health sector should seek information and collaborate with ability of services under any extreme circumstances. Though other sectors and institutions (civil protection,meteorology, a commercial or office building may be structurally designed environment,geology) that have the primary responsibility only to prevent loss of lives,key hospitals must remain opera- for collecting and analyzing this information. tional during the times they are most needed. • Building simple and realistic health scenarios of a possible Localengineeringandarchitecturalexpertsplayakeyrolein and probable occurrence. It is challenging enough to pre- developing the knowledge, technical abilities, and cost- pare for a moderate-size disaster;building and sustaining a effectivenessanalysistoestablishmitigationpriorities.Technical culture offear based on unrealistic worst-case scenarios may mitigationguidelinespreparedatagloballevel(PAHO,WHO, serve the corporate interests ofthe disaster community but World Bank, and ProVention Consortium 2004) need to be not the interests ofthe public at large. adaptedtolocalculture,conditions,andresources. • Initiatingaparticipativeprocessamongthemainactorsto Reducing the physical vulnerability of infrastructure develop a
