Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


disaster community but World Bank, and ProVention Consortium 2004) need to be not the interests ofthe public at large. adaptedtolocalculture,conditions,andresources. • Initiatingaparticipativeprocessamongthemainactorsto Reducing the physical vulnerability of infrastructure develop a basic plan that outlines the responsibilities of can take place on three different occasions (UN/ISDR 2004, each actor in the health sector (key departments of the 324): vatesector,NGOs,UNagencies,anddonors).Whatmatters • When reconstructing the infrastructure destroyed by a disaster. is the process of identifying possible overlaps or gaps and At that time,risk awareness is high,political will is present, building a consensus—not the paper plan itself. Disasters and resources are available. often present problems that are unforeseen in the most • When planning new infrastructure. Reducing vulnerability detailedplans. is most cost-effective and politically acceptable when it is • Maintaining a close collaboration with these main actors.A included at the earliest planning and negotiation stage, good coordinator is one who appreciates and adapts to the whetheritinvolvesa1to2percentadditionalcostforwind strengths and weaknesses of other institutions. Stability is resistanceora4to6percentadditionalcostforearthquake essential.Changes ofkey emergency staffmembers during a resilience. Full resistance to any damage is prohibitively disaster situation or when a new administration or minister expensive. take over have occasionally complicated the tasks. • Strengthening of existing facilities (retrofitting). This most • Sensitizing and training the first health responders and expensive measure has been adopted by several developing managers to face the special challenges of responding to countries (Chile,Colombia,Costa Rica,Mexico,Peru,and donors,or NGOs) in designing and implementing the train- earthquake in Colombia in 1999,partial retrofitting of the ing is critical.The incorporation ofdisaster management in main hospital is credited for saving the installation. Costs the academic curriculum of medical, nursing, and public vary greatly (see table 61.3). health schools should complement the on-the-job training NGOs. Well-designed disaster management training pro- pretend to eliminate all possible damage from hazards but aims grams will improve the management ofdaily medical emer- to ensure the continuing operation of the health facility at a gencies and accidents as well. level previously defined by the health authority. Hospitals Natural Disaster Mitigation and Relief | 1155 Table 61.3 Retrofitting of Hospitals in Costa Rica Duration of Cost of Percentage of total Hospital Number of beds retrofitting (months) retrofitting (US$) value of the hospital Source: PAHO and WHO 2000. facilities that are designed to prevent only total collapse and institutions in charge of constructing, operating, and main- loss oflife. taining water and sanitation services,both urban and rural,to Hospital mitigation interventions fall
