Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


are designed to prevent only total collapse and institutions in charge of constructing, operating, and main- loss oflife. taining water and sanitation services,both urban and rural,to Hospital mitigation interventions fall into three categories: promote reduction ofthe vulnerability ofexisting systems.The health sector should also ensure that health aspects and mitiga- • Functional mitigationto ensure that the necessary support- tion of damage be included in the regulatory framework and ing infrastructure services permit continuing operation: operating procedures ofwater and sanitation services. water, electricity, road access, communications, and so Protecting the water supply is feasible in developing forth.Improving routine maintenance will facilitate opera- countries. The Costa Rican Institute of Aqueducts and tions under normal circumstances and in the event of Sewage Systems reduced the vulnerability of one of the main extreme hazards. aqueducts of the country,the OrosiAqueduct.Over 10 years, • Nonstructural mitigationto reduce losses and health injuries Costa Rica invested almost US$1.5 million in studies and from falling or moving objects. Measures include, for reinforcements,anamountequivalentto2.3percentofthetotal instance,proper anchoring ofequipment for earthquakes or costof theaqueduct.Thisinvestmentwouldpreventalossof strong winds or the location ofonly noncritical services on nearlyUS$7.3millionindirectdamagesalone(FEMICA2003). flood-prone floors. • Structural mitigation to ensure the safety of the structure itself(columns,beams,load-bearing walls). INTERVENTION COST, COST-EFFECTIVENESS, The highly emotional and sensationalized climate of disaster authorities and funding agencies should require that,in all new response has long prevented the adoption of a cost- effectiveness approach in decision making. When survival of factor for selecting the facility’s location and for formulating both people and political institutions is threatened,perceptions the specifications at the earliest stage ofthe process. and visibility tend to prevail over facts and analysis,resulting in Mitigation of Damage to Water Systems. Unlike hospitals, a lack ofevidence-based studies on costs and benefits. water supply systems are geographically extensive and thus are The willingness to spend hundreds of thousand of dollars exposed to different types of hazards.The search for technical per victim rescued from a collapsed building in a foreign coun- solutions is more complex, given the diversity of the water try is a credit to the solidarity ofthe international community, authorities have no jurisdiction over the construction or oper- shifted away,modest funding is unavailable for the mid-term ation ofthose services owned or administered by many local or survival oftens ofthousands ofvictims. municipal agencies. Even a short disruption of water services may have serious Cost-Effectiveness of Selected Humanitarian Interventions impact on business.A probabilistic model studied the disrup- tive than time-tested health activities.Improvisation
