Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


municipal agencies. Even a short disruption of water services may have serious Cost-Effectiveness of Selected Humanitarian Interventions impact on business.A probabilistic model studied the disrup- tive than time-tested health activities.Improvisation and rush tive potential of a water outage in the event of an earthquake inevitably come with a high price. The preferential use of in Los Angeles county in the United States. As noted by the expatriate health professionals; the emergency procurement authors,“water outage is more likely to be disruptive for busi- and airlifting of food,water,and supplies that often are avail- others”(Chang and Chamberlin 2004,89). and the tendency to adopt dramatic measures contribute to 1156 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Claude de Ville de Goyet, Ricardo Zapata Marti, and Claudio Osorio making disaster relief one of the least cost-effective health from the international community. Guidelines for the use of activities. foreign field hospitals are available from WHO and PAHO (2003). SearchandRescue. Fewdevelopingcountrieshaveestablished the technical capacity to search for and attend to victims In-Kind Donations. Unsolicited donations of inappropriate trappedinconfinedspacesintheeventofthecollapseofmul- medical supplies not only are of limited use, but often cause tistory buildings. Industrial nations routinely dispatch search serious logistic,economic,and political problems in the recip- and rescue (SAR) teams. Costs are high and effectiveness is ient country. Warehousing those supplies and, in many reduced by delayed arrival and quickly diminishing returns. instances,building facilities (incinerators,for example) for the Following the 1988 earthquake in Armenia, in the former safe disposal of pharmaceutical donations diverts humani- SovietUnion,theU.S.SARteamextractedaliveonlytwovic- tarian funds from more effective uses.Recipient countries col- timsatacostof overUS$500,000.InTurkeyin1999,98per- lectively share part of the responsibility by not clearly indicat- vagedbyrelativesandneighbors.InBamin2003,theabsence once inappropriate items arrived. of high-rise and reinforced concrete buildings ruled out the needforspecializedteams.Nevertheless,accordingtoUNsta- Disease Prevention and Control. Postdisaster interventions tistics, at least US$2.8 million was spent on SAR teams. An in surveillance and control of communicable diseases should alternative solution consists of investing these resources in focus on strengthening existing programs.Benefits will outlive buildingthecapacityoflocalorregionalSARteams—theonly the crisis. Improvised mass immunizations (instead of ones able to be effective within hours—and training local improved sanitation and public awareness) and vector control hospitals to dispatch their emergency medical services to the by aerial spraying or fogging (instead of breeding-site reduc- disastersite. tion or waste disposal) are just two examples of wasteful managerial decisions. Field Hospitals. The limited lifesaving usefulness of foreign field hospitals has been discussed. Again, the lessons learned Shelters. Tent cities should be a
