Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


just two examples of wasteful managerial decisions. Field Hospitals. The limited lifesaving usefulness of foreign field hospitals has been discussed. Again, the lessons learned Shelters. Tent cities should be a last resort. Family-size tents fromtheBamearthquakeareclear.Theinternationalcommu- may be expensive and do not last long.Establishing large set- nity spent an estimated US$10.5 million to dispatch approxi- tlements is easy,but such settlements are difficult to sustain and mately 10 mobile hospitals,3 which arrived from two to five nearly impossible to terminate.They come with their own san- days after the impact, long after the last casualty had been itation problems and social shortcomings (lack ofprivacy,loss evacuatedtootherIranianprovinces.Thisdelayalone,hardto of family identity, and loss of empowerment). Distributing reducefurther,rulesoutanysignificantcontributiontoimme- construction material (or, preferably, cash subsidies) is more diatetraumacareandledthehospitalstocompeteforroutine cost-effective and tailored to the needs and priorities of end outpatient care with the teams of Iranian volunteers from users. across the country.A few of the mobile hospitals,better pre- paredtomeetnontraumaneedsandtostaymuchlongerthan Cash Assistance. Developed societies long ago abandoned the theusualtwotothreeweeks,havebeeninvaluable.Nodataare distribution of in-kind relief goods and services to their availableonthenumberoflivesactuallysavedbymobilehos- nationals in favor of direct financial assistance in the form of pitals (that is, lives that would not have been saved by local subsidies,grants,or tax relief.The individual is free to deter- means).Less understood are the negative effects of such hos- mine actual priorities and to seek the most cost-effective source anddiscreditedfortheirlackoftechnologyandsophistication prising that external assistance from these same countries butwhichmustcopeoncetheexternalfacilityleaves. remains focused on the costly delivery of predetermined serv- The cost of mobilizing a mobile hospital for a few weeks ices or commodities. often exceeds US$1 million, funds that would be more pro- The most immediate lifesaving needs can be addressed only ductive in the construction and equipping of a simple but locally with existing resources and capacity.No cash contribu- sturdy temporary facility. Such an approach was adopted by tion will meet those immediate needs.Beyond the acute phase, the U.S. Army Southern Command in Wiwili, Nicaragua, in in many countries with market economies,most other services theaftermathofHurricaneMitch.InthecaseofBam,Iran,the and goods are easily procured by those with financial means, cost of rebuilding the entire primary and secondary health suggesting that income availability is often the single limiting care facilities and teaching institutions was estimated by the factor in rehabilitation. government of Iran to be US$10.75 million, an amount very Undoubtedly, this approach would affect considerably the similar to that expended for the dispatch of field hospitals type (and number) of humanitarian actors by transferring
