Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


US$10.75 million, an amount very Undoubtedly, this approach would affect considerably the similar to that expended for the dispatch of field hospitals type (and number) of humanitarian actors by transferring Natural Disaster Mitigation and Relief | 1157 relyingonlocaleconomicforcesfordeliverytotheenduser.It disaster resources is with other sectors or humanitarian organ- may also bring its own set of problems (and abuses),though izations,not within the sector (as it would be,for instance,with perhaps that is a small cost, considering the economic and malaria or tuberculosis control projects). socialbenefitsofthemostinterestedparty—thevictim—being incharge. Funding for Preparedness. “By strengthening our public will be in a better position to care for our populations,regard- Cost-Effectiveness of Prevention and Mitigation less of the type of hazard that confronts our health depart- The social benefits ofmaking hospitals and water systems more ments” (Rottman 2003, 1). This message, addressed to the rarely applied.On the economic side,mitigation also increases pertinent for developing countries.Most humanitarian offices the investment capacity in the health sector by preventing in more developed countries allocate a modest but increasing losses and the need for reconstruction (PAHO and UN/ISDR proportion oftheir funds for predisaster capacity building.The 1996;Bitrán 1996). capacity ofthe ministries ofhealth to secure directly nonreim- The most compelling case for the cost-effectiveness of bursable funding depends on the following: mitigation can be made during the planning phase for new installations, when costs of additional structural safety are • The existence ofan established disaster program within the management are more evident in the health sector than in oth- disaster preparedness. ers,further studies are needed to provide decision makers with • An ongoing dialogue with local representatives of donors quantified parameters ofthe economic benefits brought about and their prior involvement in disaster-related activities or by investment in risk management and disaster reduction. meetings ofthe health sector. PAHO and UN/ISDR (1996) studies indicate that such • A realistic projection ofconcrete activities,taking into con- increased investment fluctuates between 4 and 8 percent of a sideration the efforts of others, especially NGOs. One- or hospital’slocalconstructioncost.Whenthevalueofserviceslost two-year training or capacity-building projects are more isaddedtotheinfrastructureloss,theadditionalinvestmentis likely to be supported than those of longer duration that reducedtobetween2and4percentofdirectandindirectlosses have recurrent costs or involve the purchase of equipment observed.Eventhoughthisisagrossestimatethatrequiresfur- (radios,vehicles). therresearchinotherregionsandtypesofhealthfacilities,the • The technical endorsement and support ofWHO and other figureisratifiedbytheestimatedcostofreinforcement,which UN agencies. fluctuates but averages between US$2,000 and US$5,000 per bed,comparedwiththeaveragecostof anewhospitalbedof A multisectoral preparedness component is also increas- betweenUS$100,000andUS$150,000(at1996prices). ingly included in loans negotiated in the aftermath ofdisasters. Prevention of chemical
