Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


fluctuates but averages between US$2,000 and US$5,000 per bed,comparedwiththeaveragecostof anewhospitalbedof A multisectoral preparedness component is also increas- betweenUS$100,000andUS$150,000(at1996prices). ingly included in loans negotiated in the aftermath ofdisasters. Prevention of chemical and radiation accidents can be a Intended to strengthen the capacity of the civil protection highly cost-effective expense that is normally absorbed by the agency,the funding is no substitute for local political commit- respective industries.Respect for existing norms in the use of ment to assume recurrent expenses, the only guarantee of radiotherapy and diagnostic equipment and,once such equip- sustainability. ment is decommissioned, its proper disposal reduces DALYs from accidents at a modest cost. Resources for Emergency Response. The amount of external resources available for response,financial or material,is influ- enced by the type of hazard, geopolitical considerations, and Mobilization of Resources the number ofdeaths (rather than that ofsurvivors in need of Funding for preparedness and response programs follows rules assistance).Funding is channeled mostly through humanitar- and procedures that are distinct from those applicable to devel- ian NGOs,the Red Cross system,or multilateral organizations, opment projects. Most donors maintain a specific office or rather than through national governments.Consequently,the unexpected situations. Processing a request takes a matter of are properly identified and adequately covered by those agen- days in emergencies and takes months for preparedness or mit- cies benefiting from the donations.Ministries of health often igation projects, but it can take years in typical development can obtain indirect financial support for their own activities projects negotiated with donors or financial institutions. through UN projects. 1158 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Claude de Ville de Goyet, Ricardo Zapata Marti, and Claudio Osorio Concentrating on several key factors will improve the flow within their ministries of health.Some lessons can be learned ofexternal resources toward health priorities: from this process: • Issuingarapidandreliableassessmentofwhatisneededand • The occurrence of a major disaster in the country or its waitingforadetailedassessmentofthephysicaldamage. ognize that disasters represent public health risks that must • Focusing on tomorrow’s emergency health problems. be addressed in an institutionalized manner. External response is unable to address today’s short-lived • Access to and support from the political level has deter- problems. mined the success or failure in coordinating the external and • Keeping a long-term view.Funding for emergency response domestic health response. caused by the disaster will stay much longer.Projects should most effective. Assigning responsibility for coordination offer sustained benefits beyond their conclusion. and management among different technical
