Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


response domestic health response. caused by the disaster will stay much longer.Projects should most effective. Assigning responsibility for coordination offer sustained benefits beyond their conclusion. and management among different technical departments • Recognizing shortcomings in governance when in contact according to the type of hazard (chemical or natural, for with the many bilateral fact-finding or assessment missions instance) does not work. coming to the disaster site. • A risk management program should cut across departments (medical care,epidemiology,water supply,sanitation,nutri- Funding for Reconstruction. Funding for reconstruction is tion,and so forth) ofthe ministry ofhealth and become sec- multisectoral and is often coordinated by an international tor wide. financing institution (global or regional),together with a con- • The synergy between normal development, preparedness, sortium of large donor countries.The health sector will com- and disaster response activities should be recognized. pete with other social priorities and the “productive”sectors in Poordevelopment practices increase vulnerability,whereas an arena where the health burden (measured in DALYs) does preparedness improves the attention to daily health not carry the same weight as economic factors. Success will challenges. Programs narrowly focused on operational depend on an exhaustive monetary valuation of the health response have generally failed. damage,rapid formulation of projects,political support from the country’s highest authorities, and technical support and In Asia, the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center also has endorsement ofspecialized UN agencies and larger NGOs. documented some interesting experiences ( Funding for Mitigation of Damage. Protecting the national ait.ac.th/). capital investment ofthe health sector is primarily the respon- sibility of the country at risk.Development agencies or finan- THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA cial institutions may contribute only marginally to the actual cost ofretrofitting installations or improving the design ofnew Disastersinanyonecountryarerelativelyinfrequent.Inaddition facilities. tobeingadangeroustemptationfortheauthoritiestopostpone Modest funding for pilot or demonstration prevention pro- preventive actions, this infrequency is an impediment for grams may be available from both the humanitarian and the researchandinstitutionalmemory.Ononehand,thehumanitar- development sources ofdonor countries.Humanitarian offices ianculturetendstoraiseethicalquestionsontheroleofobservers may support promotion ofthe concept,development ofguide- atatimewhenactionatallcostsisexpected.Ontheotherhand, lines or studies on vulnerabilities,and training. fewhealthacademicianswishtoembarkonprojectswhencon- The health sector will benefit from close contacts with trolgroupsandtimeforadvanceplanningareunavailable. financial institutions,the ministry offoreign affairs,and other Particularly encouraging are the increased numbers ofpub- national ministries. Negotiations to ensure that new installa- lications and guidelines by UN organizations and NGOs and tions are able to withstand disasters must be initiated at the the trend toward organizing workshops on lessons learned a earliest opportunity, and the corresponding additional costs few months after a major
