Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


Research paredness measures. Research is required that will compare the effectiveness ofpre- paredness and response strategies and approaches: A Strategic Approach • With respect topreparedness,how should researchers assess The prime objective of a developing country is to develop. the effectiveness oftraining and coordination versus that of Emergencies and disasters have proven to be major obstacles investing in hardware and stockpiles? For instance,will the and setbacks in the path toward sustainable development. accreditation ofhospitals based on their safety and readiness Conversely, the shortcomings in development programs and improve their disaster performance? institutions reduce the effectiveness of the health response in • With respect tomitigation,how should limited funding for times of crisis. Development and disaster risk management retrofitting health facilities be allocated? Is nonstructural cannot be addressed separately.Reducing risk is not a luxury mitigation a workable alternative in the absence of struc- reserved for more developed societies;it is a necessity in coun- tural measures? tries with fragile economies and health systems.It is clearly a notbeachievedlocally?Isitcontributingtostrengtheningthe addressed on a long-term and institutionalized basis through capacityofthedevelopingcountries?Whattypeofhumani- the establishment in the ministry of health of a program or • Finally, how should researchers measure the effectiveness response for all types ofdisasters.Trends in Latin America sug- of preparedness or mitigation given the unpredictability of gest that such an approach in the context ofsustainable devel- disasters? opment contributes to narrowing the gap in disaster-related deaths and disabilities (as measured by DALYs) between indus- trial and developing countries. Economic Research Disaster risk reduction is not merely a health issue.The eco- Humanitarian response is resistant to concepts of cost- nomic and political dimensions should not, however, be effectiveness.Economists should contribute to the comparative allowed to overshadow the fundamental fact that disasters are, study ofthe immediate and long-term effects ofexternal inter- above all,human tragedies incompatible with the definition of resources and building local capacity.A cost-benefit analysis of health sector should adapt and use the methodology of eco- international medical interventions prior to and during a nomic valuation ofdisaster impact as developed by ECLAC;on disaster situation is also overdue. the other hand, the financial world should also learn to give Economic assessment of the damage to the health sector equal consideration to the health burden (DALYs) in its deci- remains focused on physical losses and fails to sufficiently sionmakingfordevelopmentorreconstruction.Forthistotake health services over a sustained period. Refining the existing improve the availability ofdata. 1160 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries |
