Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, disaster, disasters, ofthe, countries, services, water, response, risk, economic, control, damage, public, vulnerability, losses


on physical losses and fails to sufficiently sionmakingfordevelopmentorreconstruction.Forthistotake health services over a sustained period. Refining the existing improve the availability ofdata. 1160 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Claude de Ville de Goyet, Ricardo Zapata Marti, and Claudio Osorio Disaster risk reduction is not the exclusive domain ofa few where a sustained effort over 25 years, with the support of experts or officials.It is the collective responsibility ofall disci- PAHO, WHO, and donor countries, traced the way to the able tool or gateway for collaboration with other sectors.Alone, greatly to a large number of experts and professionals in the the ministry ofhealth cannot reduce the health burden or play health sector ofthose countries. its coordinating role in the response. Disaster risk reduction is unlikely to produce immediate NOTES results.It requires sustained commitment over the years. 1.In a nonnatural phenomenon,such as the attacks in New York on September 11,2001,a similar risk has been detected and is perceived as a Learning from Errors remnant potential long-term health risk similar to the effect of air con- Learning from past disasters is difficult.At a national level,the tamination from ash from volcanoes. 2. Evidently these direct losses are not easy to determine in long- relatively long periods between major disasters result in few developing events (such as the ones associated with slow processes or decision makers having prior disaster management experience. climatic variability),because over time there will be overlapping damage, At an international level,the frequent turnover ofreliefwork- in contrast to the damage that occurs in sudden events such as hurricanes ers ensures that many ofthe actors are relatively inexperienced or earthquakes. 3. Data came from reports of the UN Office of Coordinator for and susceptible to adopting myths and clichés,which are rarely Humanitarian Affairs ( supplemented by challenged by the media and the academic world.It is time for authors’estimated costs for donors that did not report actual costs. an international initiative to identify the best practices,and it is time for affected countries and scientists to point out the inad-
