Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


IDSA GUIDELINES Primary Care Guidance for Providers Who Care for Persons With Human Immunodeficiency Virus: 2024 Update by the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America Michael Horberg,1,aMelanie Thompson,2,a, Allison Agwu,3Jonathan Colasanti,4Marwan Haddad,5Mamta Jain,6Grace McComsey,7Asa Radix,8 Natella Rakhmanina,9William R. Short,10Tulika Singh,11and Hansel Tookes12 Advances in antiretroviral therapy (ART) have made it possible for persons with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) to have a lifespan that approaches that of people without HIV without progressing to AIDS or transmitting HIV to sexual partners or and achieve desired outcomes, persons with HIV must be consistently engaged in care and able to access uninterrupted treatment, including ART. Comprehensive, evidence-based HIV primary care guidance is, therefore, more important than ever. Creating a patient-centered, stigma-free care environment is essential for care engagement. Barriers to care must be arise, providing comprehensive healthcare for persons with HIV becomes increasingly complex, including management of multiple comorbidities and the associated challenges of polypharmacy while also attending to HIV-specific health concerns. Clinicians also must address issues for specific populations, including persons of childbearing potential during preconception and pregnancy, children, adolescents, and transgender and gender-diverse individuals. This guidance from an expert panel of the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America updates the previous 2020 HIV Primary Care Guidance. Keywords. HIV; primary care; immunizations; comorbidities; STIs. Continuous access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) and engage- to sexual partners and infants through viral suppression. As ef- ment in a patient-centered, stigma-free, high-quality care fective ART has become simpler over time, HIV care and the environment are essential to assist people with human immu- care environment have become increasingly complex, and up- their quality and length of life, and eliminate HIV transmission HIV live longer, clinicians must attend to preventing and man- aging comorbidities and coinfections that often occur earlier and more frequently in people with HIV than in people without HIV. This becomes increasingly important as individuals age. 2024 health conditions throughout the lifespan is essential to effective aM. H. and M. T. contributed equally to this work. HIV care. At the same time, a strained HIV workforce struggles Northeast, Atlanta, GA 30308 (). to provide care to an ever-increasing population of people with Clinical Infectious Diseases® HIV and to do so with diminishing resources. Many people with © The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases HIV, including those at increased likelihood of
