Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


to do so with diminishing resources. Many people with © The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases HIV, including those at increased likelihood of acquiring HIV, for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our disproportionately experience barriers to accessing care and RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information treatment, including income inequality, unstable housing, please contact . food insecurity, joblessness, and poor access to transportation. HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 1 Downloaded from by guest on May These barriers are embedded in a social framework interwoven METHODS with racism, sexism, and discrimination against those whose Panel Composition race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or gender identity is in the mi- Participants on the panel are HIV Medicine Association nority. Increasingly, HIV care must acknowledge and address (HIVMA) members who are experts in the care of persons these issues to end the HIV epidemic in all populations. with HIV and who volunteered to participate. Two co-chairs Ensuring that clinical settings are free of stigma and discrimina- (M. A. H. and M. A. T.) with experience in developing guide- tion is a first and essential step. Unfortunately, the United States lines led the expert panel. is still far below its goals for ending the epidemic. The most re- cent available data show that among all people estimated to be Literature Review, Analysis, and Consensus Development living with HIV (diagnosed or undiagnosed), only 57% had sup- of Evidence-based Recommendations pressed virus, with lower levels among Black, Hispanic/Latino, The expert panel, with the assistance from a consultant experi- and Indigenous populations; people who inject drugs; and het- enced in medical literature reviews, conducted a literature re- erosexual cisgender men. Only 47% of all people with HIV view to identify new contributions to the field from the date met the definition for care retention, with even lower rates in of the last guideline publication in 2020 to December 2023, ex- many populations . Such disparities highlight the fact that cept when noted in the literature cited. In particular, changes to HIV care, as well as HIV prevention, must be person-centered, key guidelines and recommendations and late-breaking data deemed to be practice-changing were included up to the time on equity. of manuscript submission. Panel members responsible for While this Guidance primarily addresses care for
