Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


recommendations and late-breaking data deemed to be practice-changing were included up to the time on equity. of manuscript submission. Panel members responsible for While this Guidance primarily addresses care for people each section evaluated the evidence and developed recommen- with HIV, a patient-centered and individualized approach dations accordingly. The entire panel reviewed all recommen- to HIV prevention and care is required to end the HIV ep- dations, and decisions on the final recommendations were idemic. Substantial health disparities that are driven by soci- made by consensus based on the evidence. The full panel par- etal inequities continue to be seen among those with new ticipated in reviewing and editing the final document. A med- HIV diagnoses. Although pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) ical writer contributed to copy editing and formatting prior to is a highly effective tool for HIV prevention, its implemen- submission. tation is not yet equity-based or centered in the populations who would most benefit [2–4]. Some HIV care providers Disclosure and Management of Potential Conflicts of Interest also provide PrEP, but expansion of both HIV testing and All panel members complied with the Infectious Diseases PrEP access is needed using novel service-delivery approach- Society of America (IDSA) policy on conflicts of interest, which es that are beyond the traditional clinic visit to improve ac- requires disclosure of any financial or other interest that might cess. Similarly, the ongoing sexually transmitted infection be construed as constituting an actual, potential, or apparent (STI) epidemic disproportionately affects people with and conflict. Panel members were provided with IDSA’s conflict vulnerable to HIV. STI screening, treatment, and prevention of interest disclosure statement and asked to identify ties to should be included in a syndemic approach to HIV preven- companies that develop products that might be affected by tion and care. promulgation of the guidance or any other potential conflicts. All of these factors contribute to the need for evolving HIV care Information for panel members and spouses was requested re- recommendations in order to meet new and intensified challeng- garding employment, consultancies, stock ownership, honorar- es. This version of the Primary Care Guidance for Providers Who ia, research funding, expert testimony, and membership on Care for Persons With Human Immunodeficiency Virus con- company advisory committees. Disclosure of new conflicts of tains an expanded section devoted to patient-centered optimiza- interest was solicited at the beginning of each panel meeting. tion of HIV care, including use
