Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


committees. Disclosure of new conflicts of tains an expanded section devoted to patient-centered optimiza- interest was solicited at the beginning of each panel meeting. tion of HIV care, including use of tools such as multidisciplinary The panel made decisions on a case-by-case basis as to whether care teams, telehealth, and street medicine. The Guidance has an individual’s role should be limited as a result of a conflict or new sections devoted to immunizations, cancer screening, and potential conflict. No limiting conflicts were identified. STIs, including a focus on mpox (formerly monkeypox) and STI prevention using doxycycline postexposure prophylaxis (doxyPEP). An updated discussion of metabolic diseases address- RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE PRIMARY CARE OF PERSONS WITH HIV es statin use in people with HIV as well as approaches to comor- bidity screening and management. A section on children with The following recommendations are based on evidence avail- HIV has been added, along with updated sections on care for ad- able to the panel at the time of publication. Many of the recom- olescents, persons of childbearing potential, and transgender and mendations refer to other guidelines and recommendations, 2 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May Control and Prevention (CDC), and the CDC Advisory Evidence Summary Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), with the recog- Initiating ART on the day of or within 7 days of diagnosis is nition that these sources evolve over time and that no single considered Rapid ART . Rapid ART is a pillar of Ending primary care guidance publication can fully anticipate these the HIV Epidemic: A Plan for America and the National changes. In general, recommendations from the most current HIV/AIDS Strategy, while also being endorsed in each of the versions of guidelines and ACIP recommendations should be major clinical HIV treatment guidelines [6–9]. ART should followed. be offered unless a clinical concern exists that warrants delaying ART initiation, such as cryptococcal or tuberculous meningitis, SECTION 1: OPTIMIZING CARE ENGAGEMENT, or if the patient expresses a desire to delay therapy. Structural, MEDICATION ADHERENCE, AND VIRAL systemic, or programmatic barriers that would impede Rapid SUPPRESSION ART should be removed . Elimination of barriers to the ini- Recommendations tial linkage to care leads to shorter times to viral suppression. Delay from diagnosis to the initial appointment for HIV care • All persons with HIV should be provided timely access to has been shown to be
