Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


times to viral suppression. Delay from diagnosis to the initial appointment for HIV care • All persons with HIV should be provided timely access to has been shown to be a predictor of failure to engage in care, routine and urgent medical care via a patient-centered ap- which Rapid ART mitigates . Persons engaged in Rapid proach, beginning with Rapid ART at entry, if feasible. ART programs may need enhanced support to achieve contin- • Longitudinal low-barrier models, such as extended or non- uous care engagement and viral suppression . traditional business hours, walk-in acute or primary care, tel- The long-term effectiveness of ART is dependent on durable ehealth, and alternate care venues, including street medicine, suppression of viral replication. Clinicians should emphasize should be incorporated as feasible. that viral suppression not only improves the patient’s health • HIV care sites should provide linguistically and culturally ap- but prevents HIV transmission to others . “Undetectable propriate care. = Untransmittable” (U = U) messaging is welcomed and en- • HIV care sites should maximize diversity of the workforce couraged by communities with HIV and should be part of rou- to represent the patient population served in terms of tine messaging in the clinic to mitigate stigma and encourage gender identity, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, prima- ART adherence. Pursuit of viral suppression should ensure with HIV. feel further stigmatized. Conversations should be conducted • HIV care sites should implement programs that incorporate in a nonjudgmental fashion and should seek reasons and evidence-based and evidence-informed interventions shown potential solutions for the adherence challenges that result in to improve HIV care engagement and viral suppression, includ- viremia. Stigma mitigation is important to optimizing adher- ing providing gender-affirming and trauma-informed care, ad- ence and viral suppression as stigma is a significant driver of with harm reduction and cultural humility at the core. language (such as “people with HIV” instead of “HIV-infected • HIV care sites should use a multidisciplinary team model but people”) and gender-affirming language should be used, and ap- identify a primary clinician with experience and expertise in propriate pronouns and names should be used in electronic HIV for each patient and support the development of trust- health records and when addressing patients directly . ing long-term patient–clinician relationships. Knowledge dissemination is critical to combating stigma in • Because HIV-related stigma and misinformation remain healthcare settings, while many myths about HIV remain [16,
