Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


directly . ing long-term patient–clinician relationships. Knowledge dissemination is critical to combating stigma in • Because HIV-related stigma and misinformation remain healthcare settings, while many myths about HIV remain [16, highly prevalent within healthcare systems, HIV care site em- 17]. Clinicians should disseminate knowledge regarding scien- ployees and clinicians should advocate for patients’ rights tific advances, including that HIV is a chronic illness in the set- throughout the healthcare system to ensure that people ting of effective ART; that risk of transmission in healthcare with HIV are appropriately considered for medical and sur- settings is <1% with no reports of healthcare transmission in gical procedures. the modern ART and post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) era; • Surgical and dental decisions for people with HIV should be and that surgical and dental decisions should be based on shared should not depend on the CD4 cell count or HIV RNA level ed to surgical and dental procedures should not depend on the alone. CD4 cell count or HIV RNA level alone . Furthermore, • People with HIV should be considered as both solid organ re- people with HIV can be considered as both recipients and do- nors to people with HIV. be an exclusionary factor [20–23]. People with HIV can receive HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 3 Downloaded from by guest on May organs from all donors, while people with HIV can only donate evidence-informed strategies to effectively engage and assist organs to other people with HIV. The HIV Organ Policy Equity patients in staying in care . Interventions that improve Act, enacted in 2013, reversed a federal ban on use of organs care engagement or viral suppression generally achieve 1 of 3 from people with HIV in recipients with HIV and set standards things: care coordination through a multidisciplinary team of for research and clinical care in solid organ transplantation providers (both physical and behavioral health) and social sup- among people with HIV. It is important for clinicians to consid- ports, provision of an essential need such as housing or food as- er referrals for transplantation; updated lists of approved trans- sistance, or creation of an environment that elicits and plantation centers for people with HIV are accessible through acknowledges patients’ goals, motivations, and care needs. Transplantation and Procurement Network webpage . environment, and the individual’s biopsychosocial situation. The primary reason for treatment failure, particularly among Inherent in each of
