Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


patients’ goals, motivations, and care needs. Transplantation and Procurement Network webpage . environment, and the individual’s biopsychosocial situation. The primary reason for treatment failure, particularly among Inherent in each of these is a strengths-based approach that le- patients on their first ART regimen, is suboptimal adherence to verages a patient’s strengths as a part of the solutions . care or treatment regimens . Medication adherence is While many interventions have demonstrated some impact essential to achieving and maintaining viral suppression with on care engagement and adherence to medication, none have modern ART, although 100% adherence may not always be a very large effect size . Barriers to care are heterogeneous; necessary for optimal viral suppression outcomes . therefore, programs to overcome these barriers will need to be Discussions and education around adherence to ART should similarly heterogeneous. Differentiated service delivery, where- use an empathetic lens with the goal of identifying barriers to by the location, intensity, frequency of the service, and who de- adhering to regular medication use and brainstorming feasible livers that service are tailored to individual needs, is a model solutions. Counseling about the importance of medication ad- that factors in heterogeneous needs at a large scale . herence should be provided carefully and thoughtfully so as not Components that could provide a foundation for individual to perpetuate (or lead to) a sense of self-guilt or anxiety about care engagement include social engagement programs, remind- disease and increased mortality, even in the setting of viral sup- contacts), financial incentives, nutrition assistance, and mobile pression . health platforms that leverage mobile devices to better engage There are many drivers of poor treatment adherence includ- patients [41–46]. Intake assessments and ongoing assessments ing inconsistent access to medications (including inability to of barriers to care should include social and economic factors afford medications, limited pharmacy hours, requirements to such as stigma, violence, social support, food insecurity, unsta- pick up prescription refills monthly); structural and societal- ble housing, and transportation challenges. Lack of adequate level barriers (including inadequate transportation; health sys- food or safe housing can impact the ability to remain adherent tem barriers to engagement; food or housing insecurity; stigma to a treatment regimen and even be associated with increased and discrimination based on HIV status, race, ethnicity, gender risk of death . Early assessment by a qualified social worker identity, sexual orientation, disability, or immigration status); or case manager is
