Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


discrimination based on HIV status, race, ethnicity, gender risk of death . Early assessment by a qualified social worker identity, sexual orientation, disability, or immigration status); or case manager is essential, and ongoing access to effective clinic-level barriers (including stigmatizing/discriminatory case management teams is necessary to overcome barriers to language or practice by office staff or clinicians, restrictive care . hours, inaccessible location, lack of a mutually trusting and re- At times, how and where care is delivered needs to shift en- spectful, collaborative patient–clinician relationship); and tirely. Accordingly, there are several promising new care models pill fear, pill fatigue) [29–34]. Additionally, periods of transi- Telehealth is a technological innovation that was widely imple- changes, incarceration) may lead to disengagement in care. allows clinicians to interface with patients via synchronous Some populations may warrant dedicated programs and sup- audio or video to overcome barriers and improve continuity port to assist with care reengagement . All of these factors of care . Telehealth consultations can be leveraged to bring must be considered when designing systems to improve care HIV care to a primary care clinic or resource-limited and rural engagement. settings or to address the shortage of HIV clinicians via peer Adherence to care means not only medication adherence but mentoring [50–54]. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid also medical visit attendance and continual engagement in care Services guidance issued in June 2023 requires audio-video . Low adherence to visits and poor engagement in care have technology for most nonbehavioral telehealth consultations been found to predict approximately 50% higher mortality and permits audio-only for mental health encounters . that HIV care providers and clinics have evidence-based and outcomes with videoconferencing as opposed to audio-only. 4 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May However, because patient outcomes were comparable between ethnicity, and primary language and by ensuring meaningful videoconference and audio-only, lack of videoconferencing ca- representation of persons with HIV. A broad range of compo- pability should not be a barrier to telehealth encounters . nents, from having staff of the same race, culture, or lifestyle to The benefits of a telehealthcare model include enhanced access having art and reading material in the clinic that reflects the to a multidisciplinary care team, on-demand care, and flexibil- culture of the local community, may be useful in facilitating ity . Despite these benefits, telehealth has the potential to this
