Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


to a multidisciplinary care team, on-demand care, and flexibil- culture of the local community, may be useful in facilitating ity . Despite these benefits, telehealth has the potential to this goal . Tailored programs that facilitate care engage- introduce privacy and confidentiality concerns and potentially ment are an essential component of effectively caring for per- worsen disparities via the digital divide [58–60]. Telehealth also sons with HIV. Ensuring the meaningful involvement of operates under ambiguous state-by-state piecemeal regulations people with HIV in program design and implementation is crit- that change in a dynamic environment. Laboratory and vacci- ical to shaping clinical programs that prioritize access and care nation coordination are additional challenges. Telehealth can, engagement. however, bring evidence-based care to resource-limited popu- Ongoing monitoring of care engagement and viral suppres- lations such as incarcerated individuals and people who inject sion is one element in a comprehensive package of quality and drugs. The Drug Enforcement Agency and Substance Abuse performance measures that can enhance care outcomes for per- and Mental Health Services Administration rules have ap- sons with HIV. A national expert panel with participants from proved telehealth as an acceptable modality for medications HIVMA and IDSA has developed HIV quality-of-care perfor- for opioid use disorder and other co-occurring mental health mance metrics . These metrics are endorsed by the disorders [61–63]. Further, telehealth provides an opportunity National Quality Forum and the CMS and have been adopted to optimize HIV care through low-barrier models such as harm by many care organizations. Importantly, mortality decreases reduction, an approach to healthcare that is guided by the phi- when performance measures are met . losophy of “meeting people where they are,” both mentally and physically, and treating them with dignity and respect . SECTION 2: INITIAL EVALUATION AND IMMEDIATE Syringe services programs and potential alternative care venues FOLLOW-UP FOR PERSONS WITH HIV are the cornerstone of harm reduction, aimed at mitigating the Recommendations harms associated with injection drug use . Another low- barrier model is street medicine, a rapidly evolving form • A comprehensive present and past medical history that in- of harm reduction that sets the traditional healthcare system cludes HIV-related information, medication/social/family aside and enables providers to physically meet people from vul- history (Tables 1and 2), review of systems, and physical ex- nerable communities (including persons who are unhoused) amination (Table 3) should be obtained for all patients upon at sites accessible
