Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


history (Tables 1and 2), review of systems, and physical ex- nerable communities (including persons who are unhoused) amination (Table 3) should be obtained for all patients upon at sites accessible to them, such as walk-in clinics and other initiation of care, ideally at the first visit or, if not feasible, as alternative care venues [66–71]. The incorporation of these in- soon as possible after the first visit. In particular, in settings of novative modalities into the practice of HIV medicine offers Rapid ART initiation, clinicians may initially truncate parts an opportunity to optimize care engagement in diverse and of the comprehensive history and physical and provide a need-to-reach communities. more targeted exam but with close follow-up to complete The quality of the patient–provider relationship is often cited the essential and more comprehensive assessment. as one of the most important factors in care engagement. • As many patients will not be able to recall details of prior Having a provider with whom the patient feels comfortable treatments and laboratory results, medical records should and can communicate effectively and honestly is key to devel- be requested and reviewed, and the current medical record oping this type of relationship . The multidisciplin- should be updated accordingly. Baseline laboratory assess- ary care model for care coordination often helps patients ments should be obtained at the initial visit (Table 4). remain in care, identifies unmet care needs, and improves ad- herence to medications [74–76]. Having an HIV team that in- cludes a case manager, social worker, or staff with similar Evidence Summary responsibilities and skills has been shown to enhance adher- History of the Present Illness and HIV-Related and Other Medical ence to care and engagement . Other team members may and Surgical Histories Culturally and linguistically competent care is critical to suc- assessment. Table 2 outlines pertinent elements of current cessful care engagement. Stigma mitigation is facilitated by di- and past medical conditions, as well as other pertinent history versifying the workforce to represent the patient population to be addressed at the initial visit. Because of the high incidence served in terms of gender identity, sexual orientation, race, of coinfections and comorbidities in people with HIV, special HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 5 Downloaded from by guest on May Table 1. Initial Assessment: History of the Present Illness and Human Immunodeficiency Virus–Specific History History of the present illness • Questions should
