Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


• Access to naloxone Abbreviations: ART, antiretroviral therapy; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus. attention should be paid to this aspect of the history as well as It is critical to obtain a sexual history in an open, nonjudgmen- any risk factors that may contribute to the development of tal manner by using a sexual health framework and asking about comorbidities. the 5 “P’s”: past and current partners, practices, protection from STIs (including past PrEP use), past history of STIs, and pregnan- Family Medical History cy intention. Although targeted toward the general population, A family medical history has become more important now that the CDC publishes an excellent step-by-step guide to taking a sex- persons with HIV are living longer and are at increased risk for ual history . Important considerations for counseling and ed- age- and sex-specific conditions in addition to HIV- and ucation are discussed in Section I of that document (Optimizing treatment-related complications. Clinicians should ask about Care). Very few states require healthcare providers to notify sex any family history of conditions that might predispose the pa- partners of patients, but clinicians should be aware of laws in their tient to malignancies, neurologic diseases, osteoporosis, and own jurisdiction and advocate for repeal of laws that criminalize atherosclerotic disease and whether there is a family history HIV status . All clinicians should familiarize themselves with of early coronary artery disease. basic discussions about gender identity, including communica- tion about appropriate pronouns, and fundamentals of care for Social History transgender and gender-diverse individuals. See Section 11 for Clinicians should ask how the patient is adjusting to the diag- additional discussion of gender-affirming care. nosis of HIV, who they have informed of their HIV status, and As part of the initial evaluation and at periodic intervals what support they receive from family and friends. If needed, thereafter, clinicians should assess for the presence of depres- patients should be offered assistance with the disclosure pro- sion, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and sex- cess. Work and educational histories should be discussed, in- ual or physical abuse, including domestic violence, using cluding whether these have been affected by the diagnosis of direct questions or validated screening tools (Patient Health HIV. Assessment of access to housing, food, transportation, Questionnaire-9 [PHQ-9] and Generalized Anxiety Disorder and other primary social needs is essential. Other pertinent in- 2-item [GAD-2]) . Persons with HIV have high rates formation includes
