Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


explored, recognizing the sensitivity of these issues • Marital/relationship status ⚬ Partner(s) health and HIV status ⚬ Partner(s) access to healthcare, including HIV testing (if appropriate) ⚬ Disclosure of HIV status to partner(s) • Social support and participation in support groups • Disclosure history: friends, family, work colleagues • Access to stable housing, food, transportation • For minors, review legal guardianship and consent/assent Medications • Current medications, including over-the-counter medications, supplements • Use of complementary or alternative therapy or treatment Allergies and intolerance • Dates and types of reactions, including hypersensitivity reactions to antiretroviral therapy Healthcare maintenance and preventative health screenings (as appropriate) Dates of last: • Cervical or anal Pap (and results, if known) • Mammogram • Bone density • Colonoscopy and/or anoscopy (and results, if known) • Abnormal aortic aneurysm screening • Dental visit • Dilated eye exam • Lung cancer screening (if applicable and results, if known) Abbreviations: HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; HPV, human papillomavirus; STI, sexually transmitted infection. alcohol and tobacco, and injection drug use should be taken. Table 3). Patients should be questioned about how their current See Section 3 for more on screening and treatment for mental weight compares with their past weights, and a dietary assess- health and substance use issues. ment should be performed. Given the high incidence of comor- bidities in people with HIV, eliciting a history of comorbidities Allergies and Medications and their risk factors is essential. Depression, anxiety, and A discussion of allergies and intolerances should include ques- PTSD are common among people with HIV, especially cisgen- tions about hypersensitivity reactions to antibiotics and ART. der women and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer plus Clinicians should ask about all current medications, including (LGBTQ+) populations, and the review of systems should in- dietary or herbal supplements, some of which have been shown clude questions that focus on changes in mood, libido, sleeping to interact with ART. All prior ART regimens, including years patterns, appetite, concentration, and memory. of use, prior side effects, and reasons for switching, should be recorded. It is also important to assess prior adherence to med- Physical Examination ications and document viral loads while on each regimen. A complete physical examination should be performed at the initial encounter or as soon afterward as possible. In addition Review of Systems to recording all vital signs (including height and weight), per- The review of systems should be comprehensive and
