Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


ulcers, warts, fissures, internal or external hemorrhoids, masses, • Developmental milestones: for infants and young children, assess for motor Kaposi sarcoma; prostate exam when appropriate or speech delays • Neuropsychiatric: depression; mania; anxiety; signs of personality disorder; • Growth delay and failure to thrive for infants and children difficulties in concentration, attention, and memory; signs of dementia; speech problems; gait abnormalities; focal deficits (motor or sensory); lower-extremity vibratory sensation; deep tendon reflexes for evidence of wasting, obesity, or, particularly in patients who symptoms. When rapid initiation of ART is possible, it is im- have received older ART regimens, evidence of drug-related portant to obtain baseline laboratory tests, including HIV lipohypertrophy (including dorsocervical fat pad, gynecomas- RNA level, CD4 cell count, resistance testing, and viral hep- tia, or visceral abdominal fat accumulation) and/or lipoatrophy atitis serology, and to assess for safety and general medical (including loss of subcutaneous fat in the face, extremities, or condition; however, ART initiation need not be delayed until buttocks). All adult patients with CD4 count <50 cells/µL, as results are received. The absence of results for HIV RNA lev- well as infants and young children with profound immunodefi- el, HIV genotype, and hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) ciency, should be referred to an ophthalmologist for a dilated will influence the choice of antiretrovirals (ARVs) for rapid funduscopic examination. Though persistent generalized initiation. If results of HIV screening are not available for re- lymphadenopathy is common among untreated persons with view, an HIV diagnosis should be confirmed, preferably us- HIV, it does not correlate with prognosis or disease progres- ing a fourth-generation antigen/antibody test with rapid sion. However, focal or rapidly progressive lymphadenopathy turnaround time. may require further evaluation, including biopsy. Additionally, if lymphadenopathy does not quickly resolve with initiation of ART, diagnostic studies should be pursued. Recommendations Neurology and/or neuropsychology referral for assessment of HIV-Specific Tests for All Persons With HIV neurocognitive disorders, dementia, and focal neuropathies • Patients who have no documentation of their HIV status or may be indicated . Cervical motion and uterine or ad- who were tested anonymously should have an HIV anti- nexal tenderness on bimanual pelvic examination suggest pel- gen/antibody screening test performed upon initiation of vic inflammatory disease and should prompt STI testing. An care. When HIV RNA is obtained, in addition to antigen/ anorectal examination is important to evaluate for anal warts, antibody for HIV screening, an isolated
