Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


virus; IgG, immunoglobulin G; IGRA, interferon-γ release assay; INSTI, integrase strand transfer inhibitor; MMR, measles, mumps, rubella; OI, opportunistic infection; PrEP, preexposure prophylaxis. • A quantitative HIV RNA level (HIV viral load) should be ob- of the high rate of false-positive HIV RNA results reported in tained upon initiation of care. HIV Prevention Trials Network (HPTN) 083, especially if the • Patients should be assessed for transmitted drug resistance last dose of CAB-LA was less than 6 months prior to screening with a genotype assay for protease and reverse transcriptase . As new data emerge, CDC guidelines should be con- mutations upon initiation of care. sulted for recommendations on screening for HIV in the setting • If baseline integrase strand transfer inhibitor [INSTI] resis- of PrEP use . tance is suspected (eg. transmitted mutations) or if HIV The initial CD4 cell count is used to stage HIV infection, es- was acquired after receipt of long-acting cabotegravir for tablish the risk of specific HIV-associated complications, and PrEP, regardless of the time since drug discontinuation due determine the need for prophylaxis against opportunistic infec- to the long half-life of injectable drug, genotypic testing for tions (OIs). It is important that the clinician and patient be integrase resistance should be obtained. aware of the substantial variation in CD4 cell counts, especially • Resistance testing should be obtained for patients who reen- during acute illness. Because CD4 cell counts may be affected gage in care and who are currently not on ART or who have by a variety of medications and intercurrent illnesses, caution not had consistent ART access, recognizing that the absence should be taken when interpreting CD4 cell counts in these sit- of resistance mutations does not guarantee the absence of re- uations. Although the absolute CD4 cell count is the measure • Resistance testing, including for integrase mutations if ap- age can also be used to assess immune function and is some- propriate, is indicated for patients who are experiencing what less variable than the absolute count. Total CD4 counts virologic failure to guide modification of ART and should of 200 and 500 cells/µL generally correspond to CD4 cell per- be performed while the patient is on the failing ART centages of 14% and 29%, respectively. In children aged <5 regimen or within 4 weeks of discontinuing the ART years, there is more variability in the absolute CD4 cell count; regimen.
