Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


of 14% and 29%, respectively. In children aged <5 regimen or within 4 weeks of discontinuing the ART years, there is more variability in the absolute CD4 cell count; regimen. therefore, CD4 percentage is generally preferred for monitor- ing immune status . Evidence Summary The initial HIV RNA level defines the patient’s baseline so Clinicians should be familiar with the current CDC HIV testing that response to therapy can be measured. Clinicians should algorithms and interpretation of results based on the algorithms be aware of changes in the type of HIV RNA assay used, the as- and assays used . Confirming an HIV diagnosis is especially sociated variability, and differences in interpretation of results important in patients who are asymptomatic and have a normal between assays. Thresholds for lower limits of detection for the CD4 cell count and an undetectable or very low viral load. In most commonly used assays range from 20 to 50 copies/mL. addition, patients may present to care with misinformation re- Viral load should be measured during the initial evaluation of garding previous test results. Delayed seroconversion may oc- the untreated patient when establishing care or when a patient cur in persons who acquire HIV while taking oral PrEP or, reengages in care. Viral suppression is defined as a viral load especially, after exposure to cabotegravir as PrEP. If HIV infec- that is persistently below the level of quantification of the assay; tion is suspected within 3 months of taking oral PrEP or within however, the threshold for prevention of HIV sexual transmis- 12 months following exposure to injectable long-acting cabote- sion is considered to be <200 copies/mL . gravir (CAB-LA), HIV antibody testing and an HIV RNA level Drug-resistant HIV can be transmitted from one person to should be obtained. A positive HIV RNA result in the absence of another. The purpose of baseline genotypic resistance testing a positive antibody should be verified by repeat testing because is to assess for resistance (transmitted or acquired) that would HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 11 Downloaded from by guest on May influence ART selection. Baseline genotypic resistance testing resistance to the other drugs in the regimen. Tropism screening for protease and reverse transcriptase mutations should be per- may fail to detect X4 or D/M virus if it is present at very low formed for all persons beginning treatment . Resources are levels, and patients
