Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


should be per- may fail to detect X4 or D/M virus if it is present at very low formed for all persons beginning treatment . Resources are levels, and patients may experience treatment failure with available and frequently updated to assist clinicians in the inter- CCR5 antagonists because of the presence of pre-existing X4 pretation of drug-resistance mutations . Because trans- or D/M virus not detected by the tropism assay. Patients who mission of integrase mutations is currently uncommon, exhibit virologic failure while taking a CCR5 antagonist may baseline integrase genotyping is recommended only when also be considered for tropism testing. Routine tropism testing when HIV is suspected to have been acquired from an individ- contain a CCR5 antagonist. Repeat tropism testing is recom- ual known to have been taking a regimen that contains an in- mended when considering the use of a CCR5 antagonist as tegrase inhibitor . All persons who acquired HIV after part of the ART regimen, even if previously done in the past, using cabotegravir for HIV PrEP should have integrase resis- unless the previous tropism was X4 or D/M. Tropism may tance testing performed due to the long half-life of this drug shift from R5 to X4 or D/M during the course of infection, and the risk of selecting integrase resistance when fully inhibi- especially with more advanced immunodeficiency (CD4 count tory drug levels are no longer present. These individuals should <100 cells/µL). A proviral DNA tropism assay can be used in not receive INSTI therapy until an integrase genotype test patients with undetectable HIV RNA when considering the is performed and sensitivity is demonstrated . Lack of use of a CCR5 antagonist in a new regimen . genotypic testing limits the regimens that may be prescribed, Screening for the HLA B*5701 haplotype is essential in pa- including 2-drug regimens such as dolutegravir/lamivudine tients being considered for abacavir therapy in order to identify fixed-dose combination, and other combinations in which those who are at high risk for the abacavir hypersensitivity re- resistance to one drug would result in functional monother- action . A negative test result does not rule out the possibility apy . In persons who reengage in care and who have been of a hypersensitivity reaction but indicates that it is extremely off therapy for 4 or more weeks, resistance mutations may unlikely. Patients who have negative test results should still be absent
