Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


a hypersensitivity reaction but indicates that it is extremely off therapy for 4 or more weeks, resistance mutations may unlikely. Patients who have negative test results should still be absent due to lack of selective pressure rather than absence be counseled about a hypersensitivity reaction before being of resistance, and results should be interpreted with this in treated with abacavir . mind. Patients who are taking a failing ARV regimen (HIV RNA Laboratory Tests to Assess Safety and General Health level >200 copies/mL) should undergo resistance testing to Recommendations guide interventions and improve viral control. In those with HIV RNA levels between 201 and 500 copies/mL, testing may • A complete blood count with differential white blood cell not be successful but should be considered. count and chemistry panel with electrolytes, glucose, creati- nine, calculated creatinine clearance (or estimated glomeru- HIV-Related Tests in Select Patients lar filtration rate [eGFR]), blood urea nitrogen, total protein, Recommendations albumin, total bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and urinalysis should be • Co-receptor tropism testing should be performed if the use of obtained upon initiation of care. a chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) antagonist is being • Because many ARV drugs, the HIV infection, and host fac- considered. tors are associated with abnormal cholesterol and triglyceride • Human leucocyte antigen (HLA) B*5701 testing should be levels, a lipid profile should be obtained upon initiation of performed before initiation of abacavir therapy. care and repeated fasting, if appropriate. • Patients who are positive for the HLA B*5701 haplotype are at high risk for abacavir hypersensitivity reaction and should Evidence Summary never be treated with abacavir (this should be noted appro- Anemia, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia are common priately in the medical record). among persons with untreated HIV. The complete blood count is also used to calculate the absolute CD4 cell count. Evidence Summary A chemistry panel (including electrolytes, glucose, creati- Co-receptor tropism testing is needed to determine which pa- nine, eGFR, blood urea nitrogen, total protein, albumin, total tients are appropriate candidates for initiation or continuation bilirubin, AST, and ALT) is an important tool to assess renal of a CCR5 antagonist . CCR5 antagonists are not effective and hepatic function and to look for evidence of pre-existing for patients with X4 or dual/mixed-tropic (D/M) virus. The liver injury or hepatitis. use of a CCR5 antagonist under these circumstances could in- Kidney function is abnormal in up
