Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


pre-existing for patients with X4 or dual/mixed-tropic (D/M) virus. The liver injury or hepatitis. use of a CCR5 antagonist under these circumstances could in- Kidney function is abnormal in up to 30% of persons with crease the risk of virologic failure and the development of untreated HIV, and HIV-associated nephropathy is a relatively 12 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May common cause of end-stage renal disease, especially in Black • Persons with HIV should be screened for evidence of immu- persons with HIV, although both rates and mortality have de- nity to hepatitis A virus (HAV) with HAV immunoglobulin clined with more effective ART . A calculated creatinine G (IgG). clearance or eGFR should be obtained to further assess baseline • Persons with HIV should be screened for HCV antibody renal function. The eGFR assists in prescribing ARV agents and upon initiation of care. If positive, HCV RNA should be or- other commonly used medications that require renal dosing. dered to assess for active HCV infection. Curative therapy Clinicians should be aware that some medications such as co- should be offered to all who are diagnosed with active bicistat, dolutegravir, bictegravir (BIC), and trimethoprim HCV. HCV RNA testing is indicated ≥12 weeks post- may affect creatinine secretion and elevate serum creatinine completion of anti-HCV treatment to check for successful without affecting renal function . A screening urinalysis and sustained treatment. HCV RNA should be used for for proteinuria should be considered at initiation of care and screening if HCV infection within the last 6 months is sus- annually thereafter, especially in patients who are at increased pected or there is a history of prior HCV infection that has risk for developing kidney disease (including those with CD4 cleared due to spontaneous resolution or curative treatment. counts <200 cells/µL or HIV RNA >4000 copies/mL and those HCV RNA testing should be considered in persons with ad- with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, or hepatitis C virus vanced immunosuppression (CD4 cell count <200 cells/µL). [HCV] coinfection) . Patients with proteinuria of grade ≥1 • Infants born to persons with HBV and/or HCV should be by dipstick analysis or reduced kidney function can be referred tested for HBV and HCV transmission. to a nephrologist for consultation and should undergo addi- • Persons who are not immune to HAV and HBV should be tional studies, including quantification of proteinuria, renal
