Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


HCV transmission. to a nephrologist for consultation and should undergo addi- • Persons who are not immune to HAV and HBV should be tional studies, including quantification of proteinuria, renal ul- immunized according to current national guidelines. trasound, and possible renal biopsy. As discussed in Section 7, • All persons with HIV born in 1957 or after should be tested screening for glucose intolerance and diabetes mellitus is rec- for immunity to measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) by ommended because of the increased prevalence in this popula- measuring antibodies. tion. Among adults and children with HIV, fasting blood • MMR vaccine should be given to protect against measles, studies are more problematic because of feeding schedules in mumps, and rubella if persons were born in 1957 or after obtain fasting levels when nonfasting levels are abnormal . to these infections. The lipid profile is important because of high rates of cardio- • Serologic screening for varicella zoster virus (VZV) may be vascular disease in this population and the importance of man- considered for persons who have not had chickenpox or aging risk factors. Additionally, several ARVs affect lipid levels shingles and who have not been previously vaccinated (see or have drug interactions with statins (see Section 7). Section 4). • Screening for toxoplasma IgG is recommended for asymp- Screening for Coinfections tomatic persons with CD4 count <200 cells/µL and for those Recommendations with symptoms suggestive of toxoplasmosis. • Testing for serum cryptococcal antigen is indicated in per- • Upon initiation of care, persons with HIV without a history sons with CD4 count <100 cells/µL and in symptomatic pa- of tuberculosis or a prior positive tuberculosis screening test tients but is not routinely recommended in asymptomatic should be screened for Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection persons if CD4 count is ≥100 cells/µL. using either a tuberculin skin test (TST) or an interferon- • Screening for syphilis, chlamydia, gonorrhea, and, for per- gamma release assay (IGRA). Those with positive test results sons having vaginal sex, trichomonas should be performed should be treated for latent M. tuberculosis infection after ac- at entry to care (Please refer to Section 6). tive tuberculosis has been excluded. • Persons with HIV who have close contact with persons with Evidence Summary infectious tuberculosis should be treated for latent M. tuber- All persons with HIV should be tested for M. tuberculosis infec- culosis infection regardless of their TST or IGRA
