Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


Evidence Summary infectious tuberculosis should be treated for latent M. tuber- All persons with HIV should be tested for M. tuberculosis infec- culosis infection regardless of their TST or IGRA results, age, tion using TST or IGRA upon initiation of care . A or prior courses of tuberculosis treatment; active tuberculosis TST or IGRA should be performed any time there is concern should be excluded first. about a recent exposure. For those with CD4 count ≤200 • Persons with HIV should be screened for evidence of hepati- cells/µL, testing should be repeated after the CD4 count in- tis B virus (HBV) infection upon initiation of care by detec- creases to >200 cells/µL following initiation of ART. For a per- tion of HBsAg, hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb), and son with HIV, induration of >5 mm by TST is considered a antibody to hepatitis B total core antigen (anti-HBc or positive result and should prompt chest radiography and other HBcAb). If HBsAg is positive, HBV viral load should be evaluation, as warranted, to rule out active tuberculosis . ordered. Annual testing should be considered for those who have HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 13 Downloaded from by guest on May negative results by TST or IGRA but are at ongoing risk for ex- within the last 6 months is expected and in persons with a posure . Routine cutaneous anergy testing is not recom- history of prior HCV infection that has cleared due to sponta- mended because of lack of standardization of reagents and poor neous resolution or curative treatment. HCV RNA should be predictive value and because prophylaxis provided to anergic considered in persons with advanced immunosuppression persons has been shown to prevent few cases of tuberculosis (CD4 count <200 cells/µL), especially in persons who are . The QuantiFERON-TB Gold in-tube test (Cellestis HCV-seronegative with a history of injection drug use or Limited) and the T-SPOT TB test (Oxford Immunotech) are with unexplained increased serum transaminases because ap- approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as proximately 2%–4% of persons with HIV–HCV coinfection aids for detecting latent M. tuberculosis infection. have false-negative HCV antibody results; this occurs primarily A large meta-analysis suggests that IGRAs perform similarly among those with advanced immunosuppression . to TSTs when identifying persons with HIV with latent tuber- According to multiple studies, the rate of mother-to-infant culosis infection . However, prior
