Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


similarly among those with advanced immunosuppression . to TSTs when identifying persons with HIV with latent tuber- According to multiple studies, the rate of mother-to-infant culosis infection . However, prior vaccination with HCV transmission is up to 3-fold higher among women with Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine may result in a posi- HIV, and pregnant people with HIV should be tested for tive TST result, whereas there is less cross-reactivity with the HCV with each pregnancy . Infants can be tested IGRA. IGRAs that are reported as indeterminant should be re- for HCV RNA after age 2 months or for HCV antibody after peated, as follow-up testing may be negative. The CDC states age 18 months . All persons diagnosed with chronic that use of an IGRA is preferred over the TST in patients HCV should be offered curative treatment. Eradication of with a history of BCG vaccination and in patients with a low HCV reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk of HCC in per- likelihood of returning to have their skin test read. Advanced sons with cirrhosis; therefore, ongoing HCC screening in this immunosuppression may be associated with false-negative re- group is warranted. Screening for HCC is recommended in sults in all types of immunologically based tests used for detec- all patients with cirrhosis due to hepatitis B or C or other non- tion of M. tuberculosis infection. The routine use of the IGRA in viral etiologies (including alcohol use and fatty liver disease) children, especially those aged <5 years, is currently not recom- . mended due to limited data and some evidence of lower Acceptable evidence of immunity against measles includes at sensitivity. least 1 of the following: written documentation of adequate vac- Screening for and prevention of HAV, HBV, and HCV are cination, laboratory evidence of immunity, laboratory confir- critical in the management of people with HIV. Those who mation of measles, or birth in the United States before 1957 have HBV and/or HCV coinfection should be managed accord- . It is advisable to determine anti-varicella IgG levels ing to the most current published guidelines [98, 104–106]. for patients who are unable to verify a history of chickenpox or Hepatitis A vaccination is especially important for persons shingles . STI screening should be obtained as part of with unstable housing, for persons who inject drugs (PWID), the initial assessment. See Section 6. and for those with chronic
