Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


shingles . STI screening should be obtained as part of with unstable housing, for persons who inject drugs (PWID), the initial assessment. See Section 6. and for those with chronic liver disease due to recent outbreaks In spite of a high prevalence of toxoplasma IgG in the pop- in certain communities . Prevaccination screening for ulation, toxoplasma encephalitis occurs among those with ad- HAV infection is cost-effective when there is a seroprevalence vanced immune deficiency. Screening for toxoplasma IgG, of >30% in the patient population . Because of worse out- therefore, is indicated for asymptomatic persons with CD4 with HIV who also have HBV should be adequately treated suggestive of toxoplasmosis. Testing for serum cryptococcal for HBV . Because many persons with HIV may be treated antigen is indicated in persons with CD4 count <200 cells/µL with tenofovir-based ART that also suppresses HBV, stopping or in symptomatic individuals . tenofovir-based ART may result in a flare of HBV, especially when changing ART to a 2-drug regimen that does not contain Tests That May Be Performed Under Certain Circumstances tenofovir. Persons with HBV are at higher risk for hepatocellu- Recommendations lar carcinoma (HCC) even in the absence of cirrhosis. Screening for HCC in persons with HBV should be conducted • A baseline chest radiograph should be obtained in all persons according to the American Association for the Study of Liver with HIV who have a positive tuberculosis screening test re- Diseases guidelines . Persons not immune to HAV and sult in order to rule out active tuberculosis. It may also be HBV should be immunized according to applicable guidelines useful in other patients who are likely to have pre-existing (see Section 4). lung abnormalities, including those who smoke or have a his- Persons with HIV should be screened for HCV antibody tory of injecting drugs. upon initiation of care. If positive, HCV RNA should be or- • Before starting therapy with oxidant drugs such as dapsone dered to assess for active HCV infection. HCV RNA should and primaquine, screening for glucose-6-phosphate dehy- be used in persons with a negative HCV antibody if infection drogenase (G6PD) deficiency is recommended, particularly 14 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May for individuals assigned male at birth of African, result in significant variability. Testing should be performed on Mediterranean, or Asian descent. Sulfonamides should be a specimen obtained in the
