Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


May for individuals assigned male at birth of African, result in significant variability. Testing should be performed on Mediterranean, or Asian descent. Sulfonamides should be a specimen obtained in the morning (ideally before 10 AM) and used with caution without prior screening. confirmed with repeat testing if the result is below the lower • Persons of childbearing potential should have a pregnancy limit of normal. Recommendations differ regarding the optimal test upon initiation of care or reengagement in care. assay to use for initial testing in the setting of HIV. • In general, routine testosterone testing is not recommended Testosterone circulates primarily bound to plasma proteins (in- among cisgender males with HIV. However, morning serum cluding sex hormone–binding globulin and albumin). If total testosterone levels are recommended in adult cisgender men testosterone is used for initial testing, a determination of sex with decreased libido, erectile dysfunction, reduced bone hormone–binding globulin and/or free testosterone is strongly mineral density (BMD) or low trauma fractures, hot flashes, recommended when alterations of binding proteins are sus- or sweats. pected (including patients with cirrhosis and hepatitis, hyper- • Obtaining testosterone levels in cisgender women at baseline or hypothyroidism, or nephrotic syndrome). Free testosterone in non-research settings is not recommended. may be determined by equilibrium dialysis (most reliable but most expensive) or using the free online testosterone calculator X ray. However, persons with HIV are susceptible to a variety of terone (analogue) assays are unreliable and should not be pulmonary complications. A radiograph obtained at baseline in used. If a diagnosis of hypogonadism is established, measure- these individuals, as well as in persons with a history of pulmo- ment of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone nary disease or smoking, may be useful for comparison in the is recommended to determine whether the source of dysfunc- evaluation of future respiratory complaints. Because people tion is primary (testicular) or central (pituitary or hypothalam- who inject drugs are especially likely to have radiographic ab- ic) in origin. Hypogonadism should be treated by clinicians history and physical assessment are warranted to guide subse- placement therapy (see Section 4). For recommendations per- quent medical decision-making. For discussion of cancer taining to age-appropriate cancer screening, see Section 5. screening in persons who smoke, see Section 5. G6PD defic- iency is a genetic condition that may result in hemolysis after Tests Not Recommended for General Screening Purposes exposure to oxidant drugs. Persons assigned
