Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


smoke, see Section 5. G6PD defic- iency is a genetic condition that may result in hemolysis after Tests Not Recommended for General Screening Purposes exposure to oxidant drugs. Persons assigned male at birth Recommendations and individuals of African, Mediterranean, and Asian descent have higher likelihood of these genetic variants. Dapsone and • Routine testing for herpes simplex virus (HSV) IgG, cyto- primaquine are often used to treat persons with HIV and can megalovirus (CMV) IgG, and biomarkers of inflammation lead to hemolysis in the presence of G6PD deficiency. is not recommended. Sulfonamides should be used with caution without prior Evidence Summary screening . Routine screening for HSV is not recommended . Routine The pregnancy status of all persons of childbearing potential screening for CMV IgG is not generally useful because CMV should be assessed at the initial visit. In addition, the intent to seroprevalence is extremely high and generally not actionable have children, intent or ability to use consistent birth control, . Testing for CMV IgG may be considered, however, if and timing of potential conception should be discussed. blood transfusion is contemplated in a person at low risk for Although preliminary data suggested that neural tube defects CMV exposure. The identification of seronegativity would were associated with dolutegravir use during conception, up- prompt the use of CMV-negative or leukocyte-reduced blood dated data showed no statistical significance, and dolutegravir products when transfusions are needed, thus reducing the is now a recommended drug for treatment during conception risk of iatrogenic infection. There are no data supporting the as well as pregnancy . The HHS perinatal guidelines use of inflammatory biomarkers for risk assessment of comor- provide ART recommendations for pregnant individuals . bidities . The HHS ART guidelines provide recommendations for indi- viduals who are planning to conceive and those unable to use reliable contraception (see Sections 8 and 9). SECTION 3: ROUTINE HEALTHCARE MAINTENANCE CONSIDERATIONS FOR PEOPLE WITH HIV Cisgender men with HIV, especially those with advanced able testosterone) are associated with technical issues that may tient education and counseling. Health assessments that are HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 15 Downloaded from by guest on May recommended for the general population (age- and gender- testing may be warranted during pregnancy and/or breastfeed- guided) as well as those specific for people with HIV should ing, and the HHS Perinatal Antiretroviral Guidelines should be be reviewed and addressed at
