Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


warranted during pregnancy and/or breastfeed- guided) as well as those specific for people with HIV should ing, and the HHS Perinatal Antiretroviral Guidelines should be be reviewed and addressed at least annually with patients followed . with HIV, whether performed at 1 or more visits (Table 5). After virologic suppression has been achieved, if a viral load blip (isolated increase in HIV RNA above the limit of assay de- tection but <200 copies/mL that is followed by spontaneous HIV-Specific Monitoring Following the Initial Assessment suppression) or persistent low-level viremia with HIV RNA Recommendations <200 copies/mL occurs, medication adherence should be as- • After initiation of ART, HIV RNA should be rechecked after sessed, and any identified barriers should be addressed. 2–4 weeks but no later than 8 weeks and then every 4–8 Medication tolerability should be reviewed, and side effects weeks until suppression is achieved. Afterward, viral load should be managed. Potential drug–drug interactions, includ- should be monitored every 3–4 months to confirm mainte- ing with over-the-counter medications and supplements, nance of suppression below the limit of assay detection. should also be reviewed. Earlier HIV RNA testing, for example, This interval may be prolonged to every 6 months for pa- after 2–4 weeks, to ensure that no virologic failure (2 consecu- tients whose viral load has been suppressed for more than tive HIV RNA levels >200 copies/mL) has occurred is recom- Viral load should be monitored more frequently after reini- should be checked at least every 3 months to ensure that viro- tiating or changing ART, preferably within 2–4 weeks, with logic failure has not occurred. As discussed in Section 1, assess- repeat testing every 4–8 weeks until viral load becomes unde- ing adherence regularly, ideally through a multidisciplinary tectable. More frequent testing may be considered in other team approach, is essential for identifying and addressing bar- • If HIV RNA results are above the limit of assay detection but promoting improved adherence after such loss. Once ART is <200 copies/mL, referred to as “blips,” assessing and ad- initiated and sustained virologic suppression is achieved, dressing medication adherence, tolerability, and drug–drug CD4 cell count can be monitored less frequently. Once the virus interactions are warranted with an earlier repeat of HIV is suppressed for at least 2 years and CD4 cell count rises above RNA testing. the level associated with risk for opportunistic diseases, moni- • CD4 cell count should
