Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


HIV is suppressed for at least 2 years and CD4 cell count rises above RNA testing. the level associated with risk for opportunistic diseases, moni- • CD4 cell count should be monitored to determine the need toring can occur annually or not at all if the CD4 count is >500 for prophylaxis against OIs and to aid in generating appro- cells/µL . priate differential diagnoses. CD4 cell counts should general- The recommended frequency of HIV RNA and CD4 moni- ly be monitored every 3–6 months for the first 2 years or if the toring is not the only determinant of how frequently patients virus is not suppressed. After 2 years, for patients on suppres- should be seen for overall healthcare needs. Patients with con- sive ART regimens with CD4 counts of 300–500 cells/µL, current medical conditions may need to be seen more frequent- CD4 cell count can be monitored every 12 months unless ly, as well as patients who need ancillary services, such as If the CD4 count rises above 500 cells/µL, CD4 monitoring is use treatment services, STI screening, HIV education, case optional. management services, or harm-reduction counseling. • Repeat HIV genotypic resistance testing for mutations in the If virologic failure occurs, genotypic resistance testing for reverse transcriptase and protease genes, including in the in- mutations in reverse transcriptase, protease, and integrase (if tegrase genes, when there is history of INSTI use, should be indicated) genes should be performed to guide the choice of performed if virologic failure occurs and when clinically in- the next treatment regimen. If ART initiation has been substan- dicated. If ART initiation has been delayed, repeat genotype tially delayed, repeat resistance testing may be considered prior testing prior to ART initiation should be considered. to initiating ART . Evidence Summary Other Lab Monitoring Frequency of HIV RNA monitoring depends on the response to Recommendations therapy and duration and consistency of viral suppression. Once ART has been initiated, HIV RNA is monitored to con- • Complete blood count should be monitored every 12 months firm response to therapy and attainment and maintenance of or when clinically indicated. viral suppression. After HIV RNA becomes undetectable, mon- • A chemistry panel including glucose, creatinine, eGFR, elec- itoring is approximately quarterly but can be every 6 months trolytes, AST/ALT, and total bilirubin should be done 1–2 for persons with at least 1 year of continuous suppression months after
