Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


screening should be repeated at least annually in persons persons at risk for infection. Repeat testing is recommended who are at increased likelihood of exposure, such as persons who in patients with advanced HIV disease who initially had neg- inject drugs, cisgender men who have sex with cisgender men, ative TST or IGRA results but subsequently experienced an and transgender women [98, 125–128]. HCV RNA testing is in- increase in CD4 cell count to >200 cells/µL on ART and dicated for screening when HCV infection within the past 6 who may thus have developed sufficient immune compe- months is suspected and in people who had previous HCV infec- tence to mount a positive reaction. tion that cleared spontaneously or through treatment. HCV • HCV screening with HCV antibody should be repeated every RNA testing should be considered when a person has severe im- 12 months for persons at increased likelihood of exposure or munodeficiency with CD4 count <200 cells/µL, especially if the when clinically indicated. Screening with HCV RNA rather person has a history of injection drug use or an ALT level above than HCV antibody is indicated for persons with suspected the upper limits of normal . Repeating HCV RNA after HCV infection within the past 6 months and previous confirmed curative therapy (undetectable HCV RNA at least HCV infection that has cleared due to spontaneous resolu- 12 weeks post-completion of treatment) is not necessary unless of HCV antibody should be considered for persons with se- er injury or ongoing exposure . vere immunodeficiency (CD4 count <200 cells/µL). Persons who have negative hepatitis B serology should be • Consider repeating hepatitis B serology, including HBsAb, vaccinated (see Section 4). Persons who test positive for HBV HBsAg, and HBcAb, in persons not infected with or immune infection (with the presence of HBsAg or HBV DNA) should to HBV who are switching to an ART regimen that does not have TDF or TAF and emtricitabine (FTC) or lamuvidine contain tenofovir and when clinically indicated, including (3TC) included in the ART regimen. People who test positive before starting HCV treatment with direct-acting antiviral only with HBcAb may have resolved HBV infection with loss (DAA) medication. of HBsAb, and HBV DNA testing can be performed to confirm. • Pregnancy testing in people with HIV of childbearing poten- If the HBV DNA test is negative, the person should then be vac- tial should be
