Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


be performed to confirm. • Pregnancy testing in people with HIV of childbearing poten- If the HBV DNA test is negative, the person should then be vac- tial should be performed prior to ART initiation or modifica- cinated. HBV reactivation can occur in patients during and af- tion and when clinically indicated. ter treatment with HCV DAA medication, and repeat hepatitis • Screening for sexually transmitted infections should be per- B screening (including with HBV DNA testing if indicated) formed periodically, as discussed in Section 6. should be considered in patients not infected with or immune to HBV, especially those with isolated HBcAb, prior to treat- Evidence Summary ment with HCV DAAs [7, 130–132]. Complete blood count and chemistry panels should be moni- A pregnancy test should be performed in persons of child- tored regularly to assess medication toxicity and to monitor po- bearing potential prior to initiating or modifying ART. tential for existing comorbid conditions (eg, chronic kidney Clinicians should discuss the benefits of ART with the patient disease, hepatitis). Monitoring frequency depends on the pres- as well as regimens that are recommended during pregnancy ence of underlying medical conditions and the need to monitor and their potential toxicities. Shared decision-making with for ART toxicities, depending on the regimens chosen [6, 7, the patient should occur regarding the choice of ART for initi- 124]. Persons with co-occurring diabetes, hypertension, ation, continuation, or modification. HCV, nephrotoxic medication such as tenofovir, genetic pre- hood of kidney disease and should be monitored for renal Recommendations function at least every 6 months, and urinalysis should be per- formed at least annually. Urinalysis should be monitored be- • Screening for depression using a validated screening tool fore and during treatment with tenofovir-containing should be conducted on every adult patient at least once, compounds . with screening frequency based on risk. Annual screening Annual tuberculosis screening should be considered for is reasonable, given the elevated risk of depression in people those who have negative results for latent tuberculosis but are with HIV. 20 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May • Screening for anxiety using a validated screening tool should overdose prevention provides people with choices on how to screening frequency based on risk. Annual screening is rea- where to access services if and when they are ready. Naloxone sonable, given the elevated risk of anxiety in people with should
