Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


frequency based on risk. Annual screening is rea- where to access services if and when they are ready. Naloxone sonable, given the elevated risk of anxiety in people with should be provided for overdose prevention. Co-location of sub- HIV. stance use treatment with HIV care is ideal . Brief interven- • Screening for tobacco use should be conducted for every per- tions that include use of motivational interviewing can be son with HIV at every visit. Current smokers should be ad- provided by trained healthcare personnel . vised of the benefits of quitting and offered options to Tobacco use is a major cause of decreased life expectancy and and connection to behavioral interventions. lung cancer, in people with HIV [143–146]. People with HIV • Screening for unhealthy alcohol use and substance use using should be asked about tobacco use at every visit [147–149]. validated screening tools should be conducted on every adult This can be accomplished when taking the patient’s vital signs. patient at least once, with screening frequency based on need. People who smoke tobacco should be counseled on the benefits Annual screening is reasonable given the elevated risk of un- of quitting, offered pharmacotherapy, especially varenicline, Individuals diagnosed with an alcohol or substance use dis- See Section 5 for cancer screening in smokers. order should be offered treatment, including pharmacother- apy (such as methadone or buprenorphine for opiate use Other Health Maintenance Considerations disorder) and connection to behavioral health interventions. Recommendations • Individuals who inject drugs should be counseled on safer in- jection and substance use practices to prevent viral hepatitis • All persons with HIV, regardless of sexual orientation and and other infectious diseases and injection-related condi- gender identity, should be asked about their pregnancy in- tions such as endocarditis, osteomyelitis, cellulitis, and ab- tentions. Persons of childbearing potential should be rou- scesses. They should be educated on PrEP and PEP for tinely asked about their pregnancy intentions, especially injection partners and provided information on syringe ser- prior to treatments that may affect the ability to have children vices programs, where available. or the outcome of pregnancy. • All individuals with substance misuse or use disorders should • Patient education should be tailored at every visit based on be provided with life-saving medications such as naloxone the patient’s current needs. In particular, the clinician should for overdose prevention. evaluate the need for education on the following: ⚬
