Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


on be provided with life-saving medications such as naloxone the patient’s current needs. In particular, the clinician should for overdose prevention. evaluate the need for education on the following: ⚬ The importance of medication adherence in achieving vi- Evidence Summary ral load suppression to maximize personal health and People with HIV have high rates of depression; anxiety; and to- eliminate HIV transmission to sexual partners (U = U); use disorders are not known. Repeat screening on a regular basis, methods, and other strategies for HIV and STI prevention; such as annually, is reasonable because of the high prevalence of and these conditions among people with HIV [133–136]. Screening ⚬ Safer use of recreational drugs and their potential side ef- for depression and anxiety should include the use of validated fects and known drug interactions. screening tools such as Patient Health Questionnaire-2 • All persons with HIV should have regular oral health exam- (PHQ-2), PHQ-9, and GAD-2 . People with inations at least every 6–12 months. HIV should be screened for drug and alcohol use with validated screening tools such as the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Evidence Summary Test and the Drug Abuse Screening Test . It is important to discuss pregnancy intention and family plan- Self-reported substance use screening tools can be incorporated ning with every patient, especially prior to prescribing medica- have alcohol or substance misuse or use disorders should be of- ART or hormone therapy for gender-affirming care. Education fered or referred for pharmacotherapy, such as buprenorphine should include U = U and the ability to become pregnant with- or methadone for opioid use disorder and naltrexone for alcohol out risk of HIV transmission, as well as available options for vided within a harm-reduction model of care. Education on safer tain treatments. Every patient should also be informed of the injecting practices and drug use, syringe services programs, and possibility of becoming or getting their partner pregnant; if HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 21 Downloaded from by guest on May desired, options for birth control should be reviewed and of- Evidence Summary fered (see Section 8). Evidence of increased invasive disease due to 7 serotypes not Barriers to adherence and care engagement should be repeat- covered in the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) 13 edly assessed. Clinicians should engage in effective patient ed- (Prevnar13) and the approval of new vaccines with broader ucation in a respectful
