Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


covered in the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) 13 edly assessed. Clinicians should engage in effective patient ed- (Prevnar13) and the approval of new vaccines with broader ucation in a respectful and nonjudgmental manner for coverage have led to revised recommendations for pneumococ- maintenance of physical, emotional, spiritual, and sexual cal vaccination. The use of PCV20 (Prevnar 20; Vaxneuvance) taining patients in care (see Section 1). at least 8 weeks later is now recommended for all individuals pecially if the CD4 cell count is low . Any identified oral with underlying conditions (such as HIV) who are unvaccinat- health complication should be addressed immediately. In addi- ed or whose vaccination status is unknown (see Figure 1). nation for people with HIV is reasonable. used, making this a simple and preferred regimen . For those who have received both PCV13 and PPSV23 and are aged <65 years, 1 dose of PCV20 can be administered at SECTION 4: IMMUNIZATIONS FOR PERSONS WITH HIV least 5 years after the last dose of PPSV23 to complete the series or a second dose of PPSV23 can be administered at least 5 years Vaccinations are routinely provided as part of primary care vis- after the prior dose, with a third and final dose administered at its, and HIV primary care providers play a unique and trusted age 65 years or later but at least 5 years after the last PPSV23 role in providing counseling and guidance on recommended dose. For persons aged at least 65 years at the time of a immunization strategies. However, due to the time required PPSV23 dose, no additional doses are needed. Those who for counseling, it is advisable to use standing orders and dele- have received only PPSV23 can be given PCV20 with no addi- tional vaccinations or they can be given PCV15 followed by decision-making, to other members of the healthcare team, PPSV23 after 8 weeks. Those who have received only PCV13 such as qualified nursing or pharmacy staff. Shared decision- can be given PCV20 at least 1 year later to complete the series making is a collaborative process often used when there is un- or be given PPSV23 at least 8 weeks later with subsequent certainty regarding the benefits of a specific treatment for a par- PPSV23 doses to complete the series. When there is no access ticular population . The healthcare provider shares to PCV15, PPSV23, or PCV20, patients
