Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


a specific treatment for a par- PPSV23 doses to complete the series. When there is no access ticular population . The healthcare provider shares to PCV15, PPSV23, or PCV20, patients should receive whatev- er is available to receive protection. For those who are aged <65 explains the necessary decisions and available options, and al- years and have received PCV20 or PCV15 with PPSV23 at least lows the patient to express their preferences and values. 8 weeks later, no additional pneumococcal vaccine is needed at Together, the patient and provider discuss the pros and cons, age 65. Shared decision-making is recommended when consid- including risks, which results in a collaborative decision that re- ering PCV20 for adults aged ≥65 years who completed their se- spects the patient’s autonomy. Studies have shown that when ries with other vaccines. If the decision to administer is made, it shared decision-making is not required, computerized standing should be administered at least 5 years after the last PPSV23 orders are more effective than computerized reminders, espe- dose. PCV21 (Capvaxive) has also been approved by the FDA cially for offering influenza and pneumococcal vaccinations and could be substituted for PCV20 in adults for whom a . Vaccination receipt is increasingly regarded as a dose of PCV20 is currently recommended . At the time of publication of this guidance, no specific data are available care team can collectively contribute to achieving these quality for PCV21 in people with HIV. metrics. Current immunization recommendations are included All people with HIV should receive an annual influenza vac- in Table 6. However, recommendations change frequently, and cination, but they should not receive live vaccination via nasal HHS OI guidelines and ACIP recommendations should be spray (LAIV4 Flumist). Patients aged >65 years should receive checked frequently . 1 of 3 high-dose, adjuvanted, or recombinant influenza vac- cines: HD-IIV4 (Fluzone), aIIV4 (Fluad), or RIV4 (Flublok) Pneumococcus, Influenza, Meningococcus, Tetanus-Diphtheria-Pertussis . Recommendations for tetanus toxoid, reduced Recommendation diphtheria toxoid, and reduced acellular pertussis (Tdap; • Vaccination against infection with pneumococcus, influenza, Adacel, Boostrix) are the same as for the general population. meningococcus, and tetanus-diphtheria-pertussis should be Pregnant individuals should receive Tdap during each preg- offered to all people with HIV. nancy between 26 and 37 weeks’ gestation . Adults with 22 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May suriV ycneicfiedonummI namuH htiW elpoeP rof snoitazinummI .6 elbaT tnemmoC noitaniccaveR
