Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


HBcAb should receive vaccination. • Vaccination for HAV is recommended for all nonimmune individuals with HIV, especially those with indications for hepatitis A vaccine (including PWID, those unstably housed, Evidence Summary those with current or prior incarceration, gay and bisexual Responses to both HAV and HBV vaccines are reduced in pa- men or transgender persons with chronic liver disease, trav- tients with a CD4 count <200 cells/μL and those with quantifi- have hepatitis B and/or C). Trial Group (ACTG) study A5379 of adjuvanted recombinant • HAV IgG antibody testing should be repeated 1–2 months or HepB-CpG (Heplisav-B) given at 0, 1, and 6 months to unvac- at the next scheduled visit after the second vaccine to assess cinated people with HIV who had viral suppression and a me- for immunogenicity. A repeat vaccine series is recommended dian CD4 count of 625 cells/μL (range, 149–1562) showed that in those who remain seronegative. 100% developed seroprotective titers of HBsAb >10 mIU/mL HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 25 Downloaded from by guest on May at 28 weeks (4 weeks after a 3-dose vaccine series). At 24 weeks HBV. Those who have not been vaccinated should receive hep- (after 2 doses and prior to the third dose), 98.5% had seropro- atitis B immune globulin (IG) within 24 hours to 7 days for per- tective titers. In addition, at 28 weeks (4 weeks after the third cutaneous exposure to HBV and up to 14 days for sexual dose), 83.8% had titers >1000 mIU/mL . These data are exposure to HBV. All infants born to HBsAg-positive persons promising, but durability of such high titers is unknown and should receive hepatitis B IG and hepatitis B immunization, will be assessed in the ongoing A5379 study . In a person preferably in the first 12 hours of life. Routine vaccination for with a high CD4 cell count, a 2-dose HepB-CpG series is sero- HAV and HBV is recommended for all infants . protective, but the high titers achieved after a third dose in per- Serologic testing for viral hepatitis should be repeated if sus- sons with high CD4 cell counts and suppressed virus, as well as pected exposure occurs or if there are newly elevated transam- improved responses after a third dose in persons without HIV inase levels. but who had chronic kidney disease, suggest that those with low CD4 cell counts might achieve a
