Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


transam- improved responses after a third dose in persons without HIV inase levels. but who had chronic kidney disease, suggest that those with low CD4 cell counts might achieve a more robust response with 3 doses. Until additional data are available, if a titer >10 mIU/ MMR, Papillomavirus, and VZV mL is not achieved, consider the patient to be a nonresponder, Recommendations and a full revaccination series is recommended . Vaccines that can be used if HepB-CpG is not available in- • MMR vaccine should be administered to people with CD4 clude 2 recombinant hepatitis B vaccines (Engerix-B or count ≥200 cells/µL to protect against measles, mumps, Recombivax-HB) using a double dose at 0, 1, and 6 months and rubella if they were born in the United States in 1957 or combined hepatitis A and hepatitis B recombinant vaccine or after and have not received this vaccine or do not have im- at 0, 1, and 6 months. PreHevbrio® is a third recombinant vac- munity to these infections. cine for which insufficient data exist for people with HIV. • Persons aged between 9 and 26 years should be vaccinated Patients who fail to respond to an initial series can be revacci- against human papillomavirus (HPV), and those aged 27– nated with a full series of double-dose Engerix-B or 45 years who are unvaccinated or inadequately vaccinated Recombivax-HB (at 0, 1, and 6 months) or a complete 2-dose should be offered the vaccination series, if appropriate, series of HepB-CpG. Initial data from ACTG 5379 look prom- through shared decision-making. ising for 2 or 3 doses of HepB-CpG for people with HIV who • Persons who are susceptible to VZV (those who have not did not achieve seroprotection from an initial vaccination se- been vaccinated, have no history of varicella or herpes zoster, ries. In these individuals, either 2 or 3 doses of HepB-CpG or are seronegative for VZV) should receive PEP with vari- was superior to 3 single-strength doses of Engerix-B, with sero- cella zoster IG as soon as possible (but within 10 days) after protective responses of 93.1%, 99.4%, and 80.6%, respectively exposure to a person with varicella or shingles. . Although few people with low CD4 counts were included • Varicella primary vaccination should be considered in in the study, these preliminary data suggest that 3 doses of VZV-seronegative persons aged >8 years with CD4 count HepB-CpG might be
