Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


• Varicella primary vaccination should be considered in in the study, these preliminary data suggest that 3 doses of VZV-seronegative persons aged >8 years with CD4 count HepB-CpG might be an effective strategy for revaccination in >200 cells/μL and in children with HIV aged 1–8 years these individuals. A 2-dose strategy is likely to achieve seropro- with CD4 cell percentages >15%. Primary varicella vaccina- tection for many, and checking HBsAb levels 2 months after the tion is contraindicated for persons with CD4 count second dose can inform if a third dose should be given at 6 <200 cells/µL. months, as both strategies were superior to 3-dose single- • Recombinant zoster vaccine (RZV), 2-dose series, should be strength recombinant vaccine. However, ACTG 5379 is ongo- given to those aged ≥18 years to prevent reactivation. ing, and the durability of seroprotection is still unknown. No Response may be better if suppressed on ART and the CD4 safety data on HepB-CpG are available in pregnancy; therefore, count is >200 cells/μL. HepB-CpG should be avoided in this population. For those ini- tially vaccinated when the CD4 count was <200 cells/µL, an im- Evidence Summary proved response may be observed after virologic suppression In 2019, there were 1274 individual cases of measles in 31 states, on ART and a CD4 count >200 cells/μL are achieved. One the highest number reported in the United States since 1992 dose of vaccine should be administered to patients who have . The majority of cases occurred in individuals who had a positive anti-HBc with a negative HBsAg and HBsAb. If the not received measles vaccination. The MMR vaccine is admin- HBsAb titer is not >100 mIU/mL, a full series should be ad- istered in a 2-dose series with at least 1 month between doses. ministered . Prior to administration of any HBV vaccine, MMR should not be given if CD4 is <200 cells/μL. Acceptable it is necessary to confirm that the patient does not have evidence of immunity against measles includes written docu- chronic HBV. mentation of adequate vaccination, laboratory evidence of im- Those who have been incompletely vaccinated should re- munity, laboratory confirmation of measles, or birth in the ceive 1 dose of hepatitis B vaccine following exposure to United States before 1957 . 26 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May A preventive 9-valent HPV vaccine (9vHPV; Gardisil) is rou- recommendations, the
