Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


to United States before 1957 . 26 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May A preventive 9-valent HPV vaccine (9vHPV; Gardisil) is rou- recommendations, the CDC guidance should be checked for tinely recommended in a 3-dose schedule for all persons with the most current information. HIV aged 9–26 years. Catch-up vaccination can be offered to • The following should be counseled about transmission of those aged 27–45 years based on shared decision-making mpox and offered vaccination with the live-nonreplicating . The vaccine is safe and highly effective in preventing modified vaccinia Ankara-Bavarian Nordic (MVA-BN) vac- infection with the HPV subtypes associated with genital warts cine. The full 2-dose series is required for optimum and those responsible for approximately 70% of cervical protection. cancers and most anal cancers. Evidence shows a vaccine- ⚬ Persons without mpox lesions who have known or sus- associated decrease in the prevalence of HPV infections, ano- pected exposure to someone with mpox or with a sex part- genital lesions, and precancerous cervical neoplasia . ner in the past 2 weeks who was diagnosed with mpox; Studies show the safety of HPV vaccine in women, men, and ⚬ Cisgender men who have sex with cisgender men or trans- children ; however, the efficacy data for people with gender, nonbinary, or gender-diverse persons who, in the HIV are limited, with mixed results [171–174]. Furthermore, last 6 months, have had a new diagnosis of an STI or more little is known about the efficacy of HPV vaccination in older than 1 sexual partner; age groups. One study reported that when HPV vaccination ⚬ Persons who, in the last 6 months, have had sex at a com- was given to those with HIV at an older age but <45 years mercial sex venue or sex related to a large commercial anal dysplasia was reduced . The vaccine is not expected event or in a geographic area where mpox transmission to impact the development of cancer in those who already har- is occurring; bor oncogenic subtypes. All persons with HIV should receive 3, ⚬ Persons who have a sex partner with any of the above risks rather than 2, doses of vaccine, regardless of age . or persons who anticipate experiencing any of the above Varicella vaccination (Varivax) should be considered (2 dos- scenarios. es of single-antigen varicella vaccine, not measles/mumps/ru- • Persons aged ≥75 years
