Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


or persons who anticipate experiencing any of the above Varicella vaccination (Varivax) should be considered (2 dos- scenarios. es of single-antigen varicella vaccine, not measles/mumps/ru- • Persons aged ≥75 years should receive 1 dose of a respiratory bella/varicella, administered 3 months apart) for adults and syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine. Those aged 60–74 years who adolescents with HIV with a CD4 count >200 cells/μL on sup- are at increased likelihood of severe RSV should receive 1 pressive ART who do not have prior evidence of immunity to dose of an RSV vaccine. varicella (including documented prior infection) . Children should also receive the vaccine if aged >8 years and Evidence Summary with a CD4 cell percentage ≥15%. Persons without evidence Vaccination against severe acute respiratory syndrome corona- of immunity who have no history of varicella or shingles and virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has had a dramatic impact in reducing no history of vaccination against VZV and who are at risk of severe illness, hospitalization, and mortality. People with HIV developing severe disease or complications should receive var- are at increased likelihood of reinfection with SARS-CoV-2 icella zoster IG within 10 days after exposure to persons with and for post-COVID-19 conditions (PCCs, formerly varicella or shingles . Varicella zoster IG is not postacute symptoms of COVID-19 or PASC); vaccination pro- indicated for persons who received 2 doses of varicella vaccine tects against development of PCCs . Those who are previ- and became immunocompromised later in life . RZV ously unvaccinated or who received a monovalent COVID-19 (Shingrix) should be administered to adults aged ≥18 years us- vaccine in the past should receive an updated COVID-19 vac- ing 2 doses 2–6 months apart for the prevention of herpes zos- cine at least 2 months after the last dose . Note that these ter . Those whose virus is suppressed on ART with CD4 recommendations continue to change, and all clinicians should count >200 cells/μL may respond better, but the vaccine can check the CDC website for the most current information . be safely given regardless of CD4 cell count. Those who have The CDC recommends vaccination against mpox for cisgen- not had varicella exposure (either infection or vaccination) der gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with cisgender should not be offered this vaccine. Data indicate that 99% of men and those who are transgender, gender-diverse, or nonbi- not recall receiving the vaccination
