Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


who have sex with cisgender should not be offered this vaccine. Data indicate that 99% of men and those who are transgender, gender-diverse, or nonbi- not recall receiving the vaccination . Studies in HIV at least 1 STI or more than 1 sex partner. Additionally, persons have found the vaccine to be safe and immunogenic after 2 who, in the last 6 months, have had sex at a commercial sex ve- doses. nue or sex in association with a large public event or in a geo- graphic area where mpox transmission is occurring should be COVID-19, Mpox, and Respiratory Syncytial Virus offered vaccination. Vaccination is recommended for sexual Recommendations partners of persons described above and persons who antici- pate experiencing any of the above . A live nonreplicating • All people with HIV should receive updated COVID-19 vac- vaccinia virus vaccine for smallpox and mpox (MVA-BN; cines as recommended by the CDC. Due to rapid changes in Jynneos) is safe to administer to those with HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 27 Downloaded from by guest on May immunocompromising conditions, including HIV, although should be given at least 10 days prior to potential exposure the immune response may be diminished in this population, among those aged 18–64 years . Before 2022, poliovirus particularly those with low CD4 cell counts or unsuppressed vi- cases had not been seen in the United States for more than rus. There are insufficient data during pregnancy and breast- 30 years, and only a limited number of cases had been reported feeding. The peak antibody response is achieved 2 weeks after in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In 2022, there was a 23% increase the second dose . Data from an electronic record review globally in polio cases caused by circulating vaccine-derived suggest that the Jynneos vaccine was effective in preventing poliovirus and decreased polio vaccination rates, including a mpox disease . It is crucial that both doses are received paralytic case in New York City, accompanied by local waste- for optimal immunity. Those who are unvaccinated and have water surveillance for poliovirus . The risk of acquiring had exposure should receive the complete series with the first vaccine-derived polio is low and can be mitigated by vaccina- dose within 4–14 days of exposure . The duration of protec- tion. Those who may have high-risk exposure can receive a tion remains uncertain, but there is evidence
