Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


by vaccina- dose within 4–14 days of exposure . The duration of protec- tion. Those who may have high-risk exposure can receive a tion remains uncertain, but there is evidence that suggests that 3-dose vaccine (Ipol) if CD4 is >200 cells/μL and if the benefits severity of disease is reduced in individuals who develop mpox outweigh the risks . Typhoid fever can cause life- after vaccination, including those with HIV [186–188]. The live threatening illness due to Salmonella Typhi. Individuals who attenuated ACAM 2000 smallpox vaccine should not be given travel to high-incidence areas should consider vaccination to to people with HIV (see Section 6). reduce the risk for typhoid fever. Typhoid vaccine Thyphim RSV is a highly contagious virus that can cause severe lower Vi covers Salmonella enterica serotype paratype A, B, and respiratory infections in young children and older adults. C. The intramuscular vaccine should be administered 1 week Recently, the FDA approved 2 vaccines for those aged ≥60 prior to travel. People with HIV should avoid the live- years, based on risk for severe RSV disease. The RSVPreF3 attenuated oral vaccine (Vivotif) . is a single-dose adjuvanted recombinant prefusion F protein (preF) vaccine, and the RSVPreF is a single-dose recombi- CANCER trials, the efficacy of preventing RSV-associated lower respi- ratory infection varied from 77% to 81% . Of 38 177 par- Because of an increased likelihood of both first and second pri- ticipants who received the vaccines, 6 cases of inflammatory mary cancers among people with HIV, enhanced cancer pre- neurologic events after RSV vaccination occurred . vention, screening, and treatment efforts are needed for Persons aged 60–74 years who have heart or lung disease people with HIV both before and after an initial cancer diagno- or weakened immune systems, who are frail, or who live in sis. It is recommended that clinicians who are treating patients a group setting are at increased likelihood of severe RSV with cancer inquire and screen for HIV if serostatus is not es- and should receive 1 dose of an RSV vaccine. Persons aged tablished . Clinicians treating HIV should regularly ≥75 years should receive 1 dose of an RSV vaccine. Data re- inquire about cancer risks and ensure recommended screen- garding RSV vaccine in people with HIV are limited. Risks ings . Although persons with HIV have increased rates and benefits should be assessed based on shared decision- of certain
