Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


garding RSV vaccine in people with HIV are limited. Risks ings . Although persons with HIV have increased rates and benefits should be assessed based on shared decision- of certain cancers, recommendations for screening (prostate, making . breast, colon, lung) are not different from those for the general population, and providers should follow US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and American Cancer Society guidelines. Travel Vaccination However, AIDS-defining cancers and non–AIDS-defining can- Recommendation cers, especially virally based cancers, occur more frequently in • Individuals who travel should be advised to follow CDC people with HIV and merit increased attention [197–199]. guidelines, with particular attention to CD4 cell count, based Higher CD4 count (≥350 cells/µL) and maximal viral suppres- on their travel activities and destinations. sion are associated with lower 5-year mortality among patients with HIV and any cancer diagnosis . While most cancers Evidence Summary are not diagnosed at younger ages in people with HIV, lung Cholera is a toxin-mediated bacterial infection that results from cancer, anal cancer, and myelomas may occur at younger ingestion of contaminated food or water, leading to severe wa- ages among people with HIV compared with those without tery diarrhea. Cholera is likely to occur in areas with inadequate HIV. People with HIV are at greater risk for oral/pharyngeal sanitation. CVD103-HgR (Vaxchora) is a single-dose live at- and kidney cancers . Viral suppression is especially tenuated oral cholera vaccine recommended for travel to high- associated with lower risk of virally associated and non– risk areas in which Vibrio cholera transmission can occur. The AIDS-defining cancers among those on ART . As such, duration of protection is approximately 3 months, and vaccine as with most comorbidities, viral suppression is urged for peo- efficacy may be lower in people with HIV. CVD103-HgR ple with HIV who have cancer. Because people with HIV have 28 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May higher mortality rates after they develop cancer, increased ob- ⚬ Abnormal Pap test results require either follow-up colpos- servation, vigilance, and screening are required . copy by a qualified practitioner or repeat Pap test in 6–12 months. ⚬ For persons aged ≥30 years, cervical Pap tests should be Recommendations done annually. If the results of 3 consecutive Pap tests Prevention without an HPV test are normal, a follow-up Pap should be performed in 3 years. If the Pap test is done
