Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


If the results of 3 consecutive Pap tests Prevention without an HPV test are normal, a follow-up Pap should be performed in 3 years. If the Pap test is done with • All patients should be asked about tobacco use at every HPV testing and both the cytology and HPV testing are healthcare encounter, and those who smoke should be negative, follow-up cervical cancer screening can be strongly encouraged to stop smoking and offered smoking done in 3 years after a single Pap smear. cessation assistance, including pharmacotherapy and behav- ⚬ Unlike for people without HIV, there is no age limit for ioral interventions. Pap screening. • Because alcohol increases risk of certain cancers, moderation ⚬ If HPV testing reveals HPV16 or HPV16/18, referral for in alcohol consumption should be recommended. colposcopy is recommended. • Vaccinations against HPV and HBV are essential to reduce • Providers should follow USPSTF screening recommenda- the risk of cervical, anal, head, and neck cancers and hepato- tions for prostate cancer. cellular carcinoma. ⚬ Shared decision-making for prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing is recommended for patients aged 50–69 Screening and Detection years with at least a 10-year life expectancy. ⚬ PSA-based prostate cancer screening should be considered • Providers should be vigilant for cancer, especially human on- for persons of Black or African descent, people with pros- cogenic viral-based cancers, associated with Epstein-Barr vi- tates aged 45–49 years with at least a 10-year life expectan- rus (EBV), HPV, HCV, and HBV, even if no specific cy, and persons who have at least 1 first-degree relative screening is recommended. with prostate cancer. • Screening for prostate, breast, lung, and colon cancer should • Screening for hepatocellular carcinoma every 6 months by be conducted according to USPSTF and American Cancer ultrasound with or without alpha-fetoprotein is recommend- Society guidelines for the general population. ed for those with cirrhosis from any cause, those with chronic • Biennial mammogram screening is recommended for per- hepatitis B, and those with a history of chronic hepatitis C sons aged 40–74 years, per USPSTF guidelines. (treated or untreated) and stage F3 or F4 fibrosis. • A digital anal rectal exam should be performed annually, whether or not high-resolution anoscopy (HRA) Special Populations is available. • Transgender women, cisgender men aged >35 years who • After vaginoplasty, patients should be reminded that screen- have sex with cisgender men, and all other people with ing
