Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


available. • Transgender women, cisgender men aged >35 years who • After vaginoplasty, patients should be reminded that screen- have sex with cisgender men, and all other people with ing for conditions related to remaining organs, such as pros- HIV aged >45 years should be screened with an anal tate cancer, is still necessary. Papanicolaou (Pap) test if there is access to or ability to refer • Cancer screening for transgender and gender-diverse per- for HRA (preferred) and treatment. The IDSA recommends sons should be conducted based on guidelines for the organs HPV testing with cytology only and not just HPV testing and tissues present in the individual. alone. • Among transgender people with prostates, PSA is unreliable ⚬ For low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions or worse, for those on androgen blockers and those who have under- the patient should be referred for HRA and HPV testing gone orchiectomy. For those with a neovagina, a neovaginal if aged <45 years. Patients aged at least 45 years should and rectal exam should be used to examine the prostate. be referred for HRA and HPV testing. ⚬ All high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSILs) Evidence Summary should be treated, ideally with hyfrecation, and monitored Acquired immunodeficiency, as encountered among people routinely among people with HIV and aged >35 years. with HIV, is associated with an increased risk for cancer ⚬ All patients with anal cancers should be referred to surgi- . As such, interventions that may prevent cancer are es- cal oncology for treatment. sential to HIV care. Healthcare systems should maintain a re- • Persons with HIV aged between 21 and 29 years should have cord of patients’ current smoking status. All clinicians should a cervical Pap test annually. If the results of 3 consecutive cer- advise patients to stop smoking and document this message in 3 years. varenicline should be offered, as well as referrals for behavioral HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 29 Downloaded from by guest on May interventions to assist with smoking cessation . Anal cancer incidence (as well as oral cancers that are of The CMS, American Cancer Society, and USPSTF recommend HPV origin) is greatly elevated among people with HIV, espe- that adults aged between 50 and 80 years with a ≥ 20 pack-year cially among cisgender men who have sex with cisgender men, smoking history and who currently smoke or have quit within older
