Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


50 and 80 years with a ≥ 20 pack-year cially among cisgender men who have sex with cisgender men, smoking history and who currently smoke or have quit within older people with HIV, people with CD4 count <200 cells/µL, the past 15 years receive screening noncontrast low-dose and African Americans . There are national screening computed tomography (LDCT) scan of the chest to detect guidelines for the use of anal Pap tests in healthcare mainte- lung cancer . Persons with HIV may receive the same nance, especially among people with HIV . For all people mortality benefit from LDCT screening as those not living with HIV who have a prostate, a digital rectal exam is recom- with HIV if the CD4 count is >500 cells/µL and the patient mended to detect masses, blood, or prostate size and smooth- is ART-adherent . ness. Data published in 2022 demonstrate the benefit of anal Heavy alcohol use can negatively impact most cancer cancer screening and treatment among cisgender men with treatments and may put people at greater risk for esophageal, HIV aged >35 years who have sex with cisgender men and stomach, and liver cancers . As such, reduced alcohol all other people with HIV aged >45 years if there is access to use is advised. Further, vaccination against HBV and HPV is or ability to refer to HRA (preferred) and treatment. If an also strongly recommended to prevent liver cancer and anal Pap test or HRA is done, all HSILs should be treated, pref- HPV-associated cancers, including anal, cervical, and head erably using hyfrecation, and monitored regularly for clearance and neck cancers. Although persons with HIV have increased or recurrence. The exact timing of follow-up monitoring is still rates of certain cancers, recommendations for screening (pros- undetermined . Additional data are needed to deter- tate, breast, colon, lung) are not different from those for the ge- mine whether persons with a history of receptive anal inter- neral population. Because people with HIV are at increased course and all persons with genital warts should have risk of both primary and additional cancers, screening for periodic anal Pap tests if access to appropriate referral for cancer is needed, and enhanced secondary cancer prevention follow-up, including HRA, is available . If anal cancer is is essential . diagnosed, referral should be made to oncology or surgical While screening for most cancers in adults with HIV
