Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


including HRA, is available . If anal cancer is is essential . diagnosed, referral should be made to oncology or surgical While screening for most cancers in adults with HIV is not oncology for appropriate treatment . Data are needed to different from that of the general population, including breast generate recommendations for anal cancer screening and pre- cancer screening, providers who treat adults with HIV should vention in cisgender women. have high suspicion for cancers, even if no regular screening Prostate cancer screening that follows USPSTF guidelines is is recommended. Providers should be especially vigilant for hu- generally recommended. There is increasing evidence, howev- man oncogenic virally based cancers, including cancers that are er, that prostate cancers among people with prostates aged 50– due to EBV, HPV, HBV, and HCV . Higher CD4 count 69 years who have a 10-year life expectancy should have shared (≥350 cells/µL) and maximal viral suppression are associated decision-making about PSA testing. Among Black adults with a with lower 5-year mortality among patients with HIV and prostate, the lower age limit for PSA screening is 45 years. PSA any cancer diagnosis. Maximal viral suppression should be en- screening is not recommended at this time for adults with a couraged, especially if people with HIV and cancer are under- prostate aged ≥70 years [218–220]. going chemotherapy or radiation therapy . Genital, oral, For persons aged between 21 and 29 years, cervical cancer cervical, and anal warts should be treated to prevent develop- screening should be performed within 1 year of sexual debut ment of cancer . but not later than age 21 years or at the diagnosis of HIV. If Screening for hepatocellular carcinoma every 6 months by ul- the initial Pap test is negative, some experts recommend that trasound with or without alpha-fetoprotein is recommended for a repeat Pap test be performed within 6–12 months. If the re- those with cirrhosis from any cause . This recommendation sults of 3 consecutive Pap tests are normal, a follow-up Pap applies to people with HIV and chronic HBV and those with test should be performed at 3 years. The use of HPV co-testing treated or untreated HCV and fibrosis stage F3 or F4. Breast can- in this age group is not recommended. For persons aged >30 cer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in wom- years, cervical cancer screening should commence at diagnosis en
