Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


this age group is not recommended. For persons aged >30 cer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in wom- years, cervical cancer screening should commence at diagnosis en in the United States after lung cancer . It does not appear and be continued throughout a patient’s lifetime and not to be increased in prevalence among people with HIV, although stopped at age 65 years as recommended for the general popu- reported, suggesting that breast cancer may behave more aggres- alone or with the addition of HPV co-testing. Some experts rec- sively in this setting (bilateral disease, poorly differentiated car- ommend that a repeat Pap test be done 6 months after the ini- cinoma, and early metastasis) . At present, screening tial Pap test. If the results of 3 consecutive Pap tests are normal, mammography in persons with HIV should follow USPSTF a follow-up Pap test should be done in 3 years. If testing is done and American Cancer Society guidelines for the general popula- with Pap and HPV co-testing and if the results of both tests are tion, which are not always concordant . normal, the next screening can occur in 3 years . 30 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May Special considerations are needed for transgender adults • In asymptomatic sexually active persons, screening for gon- with HIV in regard to cancer. While likely multifactorial, trans- orrhea, chlamydia, and syphilis should be repeated at least gender persons have a greater risk of being diagnosed with can- annually. Persons who have receptive vaginal sex should be cer later than the general population, lower odds of receiving screened for trichomonas at least annually. appropriate oncologic treatment, and worse odds of survival • In persons with multiple or anonymous sex partners, screen- than other people with cancer. Thus, greater vigilance is needed ing should be conducted every 3–6 months depending on for transgender individuals at risk of cancer . Further, sexual activities, presence of recent STIs in the patient or even after vaginoplasty, there needs to be lifelong follow-up their partner(s), and local community STI prevalence. for prostate cancer and other cancers found among people Those found to have gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, or trich- born with male sex organs that are not removed. It also should omonas on initial screening should be treated and rescreened be noted that among transgender individuals with prostates, in
