Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


born with male sex organs that are not removed. It also should omonas on initial screening should be treated and rescreened be noted that among transgender individuals with prostates, in 3 months because of high reinfection rates. PSA testing may be unreliable if they are taking androgen • For those diagnosed with pharyngeal gonorrhea, a test of blockers or are status post-orchiectomy. For those with a cure should be performed at 7–14 days with an NAAT or cul- neovagina, a neovaginal exam of the prostate should be ture, although testing at 7 days is associated with a higher rate performed . of false-positive results. If an NAAT obtained for test of cure is positive, a culture should be obtained, and positive cultures should undergo antimicrobial susceptibility testing. SECTION 6: STI SCREENING, TREATMENT, AND • For gonorrhea that is unresponsive to treatment, regardless PREVENTION of site, culture should be obtained, and positive cultures In 2022, the United States experienced extremely high rates of should undergo antimicrobial susceptibility testing. chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis, with continuing and strik- • All persons with syphilis should be screened for ocular and ing disparities by race/ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, age, otic involvement as well as neurologic symptoms and signs. and geography. People with HIV accounted for 36.4% of cases However, a lumbar puncture is not indicated in individuals of primary and secondary syphilis among gay and bisexual men with isolated ocular or otic symptoms. A lumbar puncture . Trichomonas is common among persons who have vag- should be performed in those with neurologic findings. inal sex, although most cases are asymptomatic. Beginning in • Retreatment after treatment failure should be implemented 2022, global outbreaks of mpox disproportionately affected according to CDC STI guidelines. Following a diagnosis of people with HIV and have been particularly frequent and syphilis, nontreponemal titers should be followed and a lum- more severe among those with advanced immune suppression bar puncture performed if titers increase by 4-fold (sustained . Evidence is evolving to support prevention of some STIs by at least 2 weeks) without evidence of reinfection after using doxyPEP, although the risk of antimicrobial resistance is treatment. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination and re- an ongoing concern. It is essential that STI screening, treat- treatment may be considered if titers do not decrease ment, and prevention efforts be centered on equity-based 4-fold by 24 months. strategies. • Pregnant individuals should be screened
