Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


screening, treat- treatment may be considered if titers do not decrease ment, and prevention efforts be centered on equity-based 4-fold by 24 months. strategies. • Pregnant individuals should be screened for chlamydia, gon- orrhea, and syphilis at the first prenatal visit, 28 weeks, and Screening and Treatment for STIs also, for syphilis, at delivery. Screening for trichomonas Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, Syphilis, and Trichomonas should be offered at the first prenatal visit. Screening should Recommendations be more frequent depending on past STI incidence in the pa- tient or partner(s) and community STI prevalence. Partners • Services for STI (including mpox) screening, treatment, and of pregnant persons with STIs should be offered screening prevention should be convenient and affordable, delivered in and treatment. a stigma-free environment, and made accessible to popula- • Because of increasing antibiotic resistance, especially with tions with the highest prevalence of infection using equity- gonorrhea, CDC STI treatment guidelines should be con- based strategies. sulted frequently, and treatment should follow these • All patients should be screened for gonorrhea, chlamydia, recommendations. and syphilis upon entry into care. Persons who have recep- • In cisgender women, trichomonas should be treated using tive vaginal sex should be screened for trichomonas using metronidazole 500 mg twice daily for 7 days, while a single the vaginal or cervical nucleic acid amplification test 2-g dose may be used in cisgender men. (NAAT). Screening for gonorrhea and chlamydia should be by NAAT at all sites of sexual contact (oral, anal, urethral/ Evidence Summary urine, vaginal/neovaginal). Done correctly, self-collected Between 2018 and 2022, gonorrhea diagnoses increased by 11% NAAT swabs may be used to enhance acceptability. overall but were lower than in 2021, with 40% occurring among HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 31 Downloaded from by guest on May gay, bisexual, and other cisgender men who have sex with men. delivery for syphilis . Congenital syphilis is prevent- Syphilis diagnoses increased a striking 78.9%; this includes able and can be eliminated by diligent screening and treatment 3755 cases of congenital syphilis, a 183% increase since 2018. during pregnancy, including at delivery. Note that treponemal Cases of chlamydia were level compared with 2018 but at a antibody tests (such as fluorescent treponemal antibody ab- high incidence of 1 649 716 cases. Chlamydia, gonorrhea, and sorption (FTA-ABS) or microhemagglutination assay for syphilis continued to disproportionately affect racial and ethnic Treponema pallidum (MHA-TP)) often remain positive
