Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


high incidence of 1 649 716 cases. Chlamydia, gonorrhea, and sorption (FTA-ABS) or microhemagglutination assay for syphilis continued to disproportionately affect racial and ethnic Treponema pallidum (MHA-TP)) often remain positive for minorities, with 31% of these cases occurring in non-Hispanic life despite effective treatment . African Americans and half of diagnosed STIs occurring Trichomoniasis is the most common STI among those who among persons aged 15–24 years . have vaginal sex, with disproportionately high rates among Blacks and cisgender women with HIV . It is associated Screening with increased HIV shedding in those without viral suppres- Nucleic acid amplification testing is the most sensitive screen- sion, with pelvic inflammatory disease, and with adverse preg- ing method for chlamydia and gonorrhea and should be ob- nancy outcomes. Screening should be conducted using an tained from all sites of sexual exposure. For persons with a NAAT or an FDA-approved rapid test and repeated in 3 vagina/neovagina, swabs from that area are more sensitive months for those who test positive, as reinfection rates are than urine, while urine is acceptable for persons with a penis. high. During pregnancy, screening should occur at the first pre- Self-collected vaginal/neovaginal and anal swabs are as sensi- natal visit and during the third trimester, at minimum, with tive as those collected by care providers and may be more ac- treatment delivered as needed. ceptable and adaptable to at-home testing. The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated interest in home-testing for STIs, some- Treatment times paired with telemedicine or online ordering of test kits, Antibiotic resistance is of high concern, especially for gonorrhea, particularly for gonorrhea and chlamydia . In a pilot study although most strains have remained sensitive to ceftriaxone to in Washington, DC, in which self-tests for HIV, chlamydia, and date. In 2020, CDC recommended gonorrhea treatment with a gonorrhea were sent to users by mail, positivity rates for chla- single dose of intramuscular ceftriaxone 500 mg (or 1000 mg mydia and gonorrhea (especially in extragenital areas) were for those who weigh ≥150 kg) without concurrent azithromycin high in returned samples . Clinicians should be familiar . Test of cure with an NAAT or culture is recommended for with CDC’s updated laboratory testing guidelines for syphilis pharyngeal gonorrhea at 7–14 days after treatment, although test- . Diagnosis of syphilis generally relies on serologic testing ing at 7 days is associated with a higher rate of false-positive that consists of
