Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


7–14 days after treatment, although test- . Diagnosis of syphilis generally relies on serologic testing ing at 7 days is associated with a higher rate of false-positive that consists of a nontreponemal test (with positives expressed results. Culture should be obtained for all gonorrhea treatment in titers) and a treponemal test. However, self-testing has relied failures so that antimicrobial susceptibility testing can be per- on treponemal antibody testing, which may be falsely negative formed . The preferred treatment for early, secondary, in early infection or positive long after an initial infection has latent, and late-latent syphilis continues to be benzathine penicil- been treated. Clinicians should be familiar with considerations lin G. However, doxycycline can be used for 14–28 days, depend- regarding point-of-care testing for syphilis from the National ing on the stage of the disease in the event of true penicillin allergy Syphilis and Congenital Syphilis Syndemic Federal Task or penicillin shortage. If neurosyphilis is present or the patient is Force . The development of nontreponemal tests suitable pregnant, intravenous aqueous crystalline penicillin G should be for self-testing remains a research gap of high interest. used, even if desensitization is required. The high price of com- All persons with syphilis should be screened for ocular and mercially obtained benzathine penicillin and intermittent short- otic syphilis and for neurologic signs and symptoms. Persons ages of this drug are barriers to ending the syphilis epidemic, with syphilis and ocular or otic symptoms should receive treat- particularly among pregnant women for whom no other viable ment immediately to preserve vision and hearing. However, a regimens are recommended. In cisgender women with HIV, lumbar puncture is not required unless neurologic signs or treatment of trichomonas using metronidazole 500 mg twice dai- symptoms are present. A lumbar puncture is indicated in those ly for 7 days was more effective than a single 2-g dose of metro- with neurologic findings and those whose nontreponemal titer nidazole; cisgender men can be treated using the single-dose has increased 4-fold (sustained for more than 2 weeks) without regimen . In most cases, chlamydia is treated with doxycy- evidence of reinfection. Persons whose nontreponemal titers cline 100 mg twice daily for 7 days. However, rectal chlamydia have not decreased 4-fold by 24 months should be examined associated with inguinal lymphadenopathy or symptoms of proc- clinically; a CSF examination and retreatment may be consid- tocolitis (such as bloody discharge, tenesmus, ulcers)
