Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


by 24 months should be examined associated with inguinal lymphadenopathy or symptoms of proc- clinically; a CSF examination and retreatment may be consid- tocolitis (such as bloody discharge, tenesmus, ulcers) raises suspi- ered. CDC STI guidelines should be consulted when treatment cion of lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV). Although LGV and fails . Pregnant persons are at high risk for STIs and non-LGV chlamydia can be distinguished by molecular testing, should be screened for gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, and LGV is usually diagnosed clinically and treated with 21 days of trichomonas at the first prenatal visit, 28 weeks, and also at doxycycline 100 mg twice daily. Close monitoring of and referral 32 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May to the CDC STI treatment guidelines are essential, as susceptibil- soon as possible for those on ART with virologic failure in ities and recommendations change over time . the setting of mpox. • Treatment with tecovirimat should be offered to people with HIV whose virus is not suppressed or whose CD4 count is Mycoplasma Genitalium <350 cells/µL, those who are pregnant, and those who have Recommendations other immunocompromising conditions; severe disease; oro- • Persons with recurrent urethritis or cervicitis should be pharyngeal, anorectal, genital lesions; bacterial superinfection, screened with an NAAT for Mycoplasma genitalium especially requiring debridement; or other conditions that put (Mgen). Screening should be considered for those with pelvic them at high risk of poor outcomes, as designated by the CDC. inflammatory disease. • Screening for Mgen in asymptomatic persons or screening of Evidence Summary extragenital sites is not recommended. Compared with previous mpox outbreaks, the global outbreak that began in 2022 occurred predominantly among cisgender Evidence Summary men and transgender women who have sex with cisgender Mgen is a cause of nongonococcal/nonchlamydial penile urethri- men and has been associated with more mucosal and anorectal tis and can cause persistent or recurrent urethritis. It has been as- disease and delayed prodromal symptoms compared with previ- sociated with cervicitis, endometritis, and pelvic inflammatory ous outbreaks in endemic countries. A global systematic review of disease in cross-sectional studies. Case-control and cross- 52 studies that included 6345 persons with mpox found that 40% sectional studies suggest that urogenital Mgen is more common of persons also had HIV . A global series of mpox among among people with HIV and may be associated with HIV shed- 382 people with HIV and
