Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


more common of persons also had HIV . A global series of mpox among among people with HIV and may be associated with HIV shed- 382 people with HIV and CD4 count <350 cells/µL found high ding among people not taking ART . Resistance to azithro- prevalence of serious outcomes, including necrotizing skin le- mycin is widespread, and fluoroquinolone resistance is sions, lung involvement, secondary infections, and sepsis, partic- increasing. Multidrug resistance to azithromycin, fluoroquino- ularly in those with CD4 count <100 cells/µL. In the group as a lones, and doxycycline has been identified . Resistance test- whole, 28% were hospitalized and 7% died. Among those who ing for refractory or recurrent infections should be performed died, all had CD4 count <200 cells/µL, and mortality was espe- where available, but molecular tests are not yet widely available cially high (57%) among 21 persons who developed mpox outside of research settings. There are insufficient data on clinical immune-related inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) after initiation outcomes associated with asymptomatic Mgen, and antibiotic use or reinitiation of ART. In this series, only 16% received tecoviri- in this setting could increase the prevalence of resistant organ- mat (TPOXX) . Initiation of ART, however, should not be isms. Therefore, screening of asymptomatic persons for Mgen delayed because of concern about IRIS, as viral suppression can is not recommended. The efficacy of doxyPEP for prevention be lifesaving in this population. As of March 2023, the CDC re- of symptomatic Mgen is an area of active investigation, as is ported that 94% of deaths associated with mpox in the United the risk of Mgen resistance in this setting . States were among people with HIV. In those with CD4 count data available, 96% of deaths were among people with CD4 Mpox counts <50 cells/µL. Among those with treatment data available, Screening and Treatment only 9.1% were receiving ART prior to their mpox diagnosis. Of Recommendations all mpox deaths, 90% occurred among Black men . An equity-based approach to mpox screening, treatment, and pre- • Persons exposed to mpox through sexual activity or close con- vention is essential, prioritizing people with HIV, especially those tact should be advised to monitor for symptoms for 21 days, with low CD4 counts or uncontrolled virus and racial and ethnic consider vaccination if asymptomatic and within 14 days of groups that bear a disproportionate burden of severe mpox. exposure, and seek medical care
