Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


or uncontrolled virus and racial and ethnic consider vaccination if asymptomatic and within 14 days of groups that bear a disproportionate burden of severe mpox. exposure, and seek medical care immediately if symptoms PCR testing of mpox lesions is associated with the highest di- develop. agnostic yield , although virus can often be recovered • Persons with cutaneous, oropharyngeal, or anorectal lesions from the anorectal and oropharyngeal regions. Other STIs of- suspected to be due to mpox should receive polymerase chain ten occur concurrently with mpox, and STI (and HIV if status reaction (PCR) testing of lesions for orthopoxvirus (mpox) is unknown) screening is imperative in persons who present and should isolate as recommended in the CDC guidelines. with suspicion of mpox. People with suspected or confirmed • Persons with suspected mpox should be offered screening for mpox who are at risk of serious outcomes should receive HIV (if not known to have HIV) and STIs, especially chla- TPOXX under an expanded access investigational new drug mydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis. submission administered by the CDC . This includes • ART initiation should not be delayed when HIV is diagnosed people with unsuppressed virus or CD4 count <350 cells/µL; concurrent with mpox, and therapy should be adjusted as other immunocompromising conditions; severe disease; HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 33 Downloaded from by guest on May oropharyngeal, anorectal, or genital lesions; or bacterial super- doxycycline is 200 mg as a single dose (maximum 200 mg infection, especially requiring debridement. People without se- in 24 hours), ideally taken as soon as possible after sex but vere disease may consider enrolling remotely in the Study of no later than 72 hours afterward. Tecovirimat for Human Mpox Virus (STOMP) trial, a • At present, data are inadequate to support the efficacy of the effectiveness of TPOXX . transgender men, and gender-diverse persons assigned fe- Although the 2022 mpox outbreak peaked in the summer of male at birth. Shared decision-making should be used in 2022 and was curtailed by vaccination, education, and behavior these populations. change among persons at highest likelihood of acquisition, • Persons who actively use doxyPEP should be screened for clusters of resurgence continued to occur in 2023 and increased syphilis, chlamydia, and gonorrhea at 3- to 6-month inter- December 2023 notified health professionals of the human- to-human transmission of clade I mpox within the Evidence Summary Democratic Republic of
