Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


syphilis, chlamydia, and gonorrhea at 3- to 6-month inter- December 2023 notified health professionals of the human- to-human transmission of clade I mpox within the Evidence Summary Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), with concern for inter- Persons with frequent recurrent STIs may benefit from counsel- national spread. Mpox infections in the United States have been ing and other structured interventions to decrease STI acquisi- with the clade II virus, while clade I is associated with increased tion. Condoms can be effective in decreasing STI acquisition transmissibility and more severe outcomes than with clade II. and should be offered. Some individuals with recurrent STIs Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of clade I infection may benefit from prevention of bacterial STIs using doxyPEP, in persons returning from the DRC and other affected nations defined as a single dose of doxycycline 200 mg taken as soon who develop symptoms within 21 days of travel. Both Jynneos as possible after sex but no later than 72 hours afterward. The vaccination and TPOXX treatment are thought to be effective maximum dose of doxycycline is 200 mg within 24 hours. against the clade I virus . Vaccination efforts are of ongo- Preliminary data that support the activity of doxycycline in ing importance, including ensuring that both doses of vaccine preventing chlamydia and syphilis came from a substudy of are received. As of November 2023, only 61% of people who re- the French National Agency for Reserch on AIDS (ANRS) ceived an initial MVA-BN smallpox vaccine (Jynneos) received Ipergay trial of intermittent HIV PrEP, in which participants the full series . A global case series of 37 persons with took doxycycline 200 mg within 72 hours of sexual exposure. mpox reinfection or mpox that occurred after adequate vacci- Doxycycline use was associated with a 70% decrease in chla- nation found that cases were mild, with few lesions and little mydia and syphilis but no decrease in gonorrhea . Two mucosal involvement, no deaths, and only 1 hospitalization randomized trials subsequently demonstrated the efficacy of in spite of only 2 individuals receiving TPOXX . doxyPEP in preventing chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis Therefore, while a 2-dose vaccination series may not prevent among cisgender gay and bisexual men and transgender wom- infection, it likely will prevent severe disease (see Section 4: en. The DoxyPEP trial, a randomized, open-label trial in Immunizations). Seattle, Washington, and San Francisco, California, included
