Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


doxyPEP . Although the in- that targeting doxyPEP to cisgender gay and bisexual men, terim analysis suggested that 4CMenB vaccination was protec- transgender women, and nonbinary persons assigned male at tive against gonorrhea, this finding was not confirmed after birth who had been diagnosed with a bacterial STI within the missing study data were included. The final analysis confirmed last 12 months or with repeated STIs was the most efficient statistically significant preventative effects of doxyPEP against use of doxyPEP. Providing doxyPEP to all PrEP users or people first episodes of chlamydia (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR], with HIV prevented more STIs but was less efficient and ex- 0.14; 95% CI, .09–.23; P < .0001), syphilis (aHR, 0.21; 95% CI, posed more people to doxycycline (higher number needed to .11–.41; P < .001), and gonorrhea (aHR, 0.67; 95% CI, treat to prevent 1 STI) . As data evolve, the CDC recom- .52–.87; P = .003), although the effect against gonorrhea was mendations for use of doxyPEP will be updated . People modest and less than in the interim analysis. The effect of who receive doxyPEP should continue to receive routine 4CMenB vaccination on incident gonorrhea was not statisti- screening for asymptomatic STIs and ongoing evaluation of cally significant. Consistent with local epidemiology, tetracy- the need for continuing doxyPEP. cline resistance was seen in all available gonorrhea samples from baseline and follow-up, and high-level tetracycline resis- SECTION 7: METABOLIC AND OTHER tance (minimum inhibitory concentration > 8 mg/L) was NONCOMMUNICABLE COMORBIDITIES ASSOCIATED more common in incident samples from the doxyPEP arm WITH HIV, ANTIRETROVIRAL THERAPY, AND AGING than the control arm (36% vs 13%; P < .043). No chlamydia re- Now that approximately 50% of the global population of people sistance was detected, and there was no statistically significant with HIV is aged >50 years, concern has heightened about in- difference between the arms in detection of pharyngeal creased rates of common comorbidities associated with age methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or rectal extended- , including long-term cardiovascular morbidity, es- spectrum β-lactamase–producing Escherichia coli . A ran- pecially in those with traditional risk factors such as dyslipide- domized, open-label trial compared doxyPEP to standard of mia, glucose intolerance or diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and care among 449 nonpregnant cisgender Kenyan women aged smoking. The benefits of ART used in accordance with pub- 18–30 years who were taking HIV PrEP. The study (dPEP lished guidelines outweigh
