Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


among 449 nonpregnant cisgender Kenyan women aged smoking. The benefits of ART used in accordance with pub- 18–30 years who were taking HIV PrEP. The study (dPEP lished guidelines outweigh the risks of cardiovascular disease Kenya) showed no difference between the doxyPEP arm and and other comorbidities associated with long-term exposure the standard-of-care arm in the incidence of chlamydia or gon- . Multiple guidelines are available to assist providers in orrhea. In a subset of participants in the doxyPEP arm, doxycy- the identification and management of lipid abnormalities, dia- cline was present in only 29% of hair samples. Low uptake of betes mellitus, excess weight, liver steatosis, and other comor- the intervention limited the ability to understand the true effi- bidities [254–258]. People with HIV also are at higher risk cacy of doxycycline for bacterial STI prevention in cisgender for weight gain, loss of BMD, hypogonadism, frailty, and neu- women under more ideal adherence conditions. In addition, rocognitive disorders. high-level tetracycline resistance, previously described in Kenya, was seen in 100% of gonorrhea samples identified at Recommendations baseline and at study visits in both study arms . DoxyPEP, therefore, is recommended for cisgender gay, bisex- • Fasting (optimal) or random lipid levels should be obtained ual, and other men who have sex with cisgender men and for prior to and within 1–3 months after starting ART. transgender women who have a history of at least 1 diagnosis Abnormal random lipid levels should be repeated when fast- of syphilis, chlamydia, or gonorrhea within the last 12 months ing. Patients with abnormal lipid levels should be managed or who anticipate sexual activities associated with increased according to the National Lipid Association Part 2 and likelihood of STI acquisition. No recommendations can be 2018 Multispecialty Blood Cholesterol Guidelines. All pa- made at this time for the use of doxyPEP in cisgender women, tients should be assessed for 10-year atherosclerotic cardio- cisgender heterosexual men, transgender men, and other vascular disease (ASCVD) risk. Those at high risk should gender-diverse persons; additional research is needed. Use of be further evaluated and managed according to established doxyPEP in these populations should be based on shared guidelines that recognize HIV risk-enhancing factors. decision-making. • Statin therapy is recommended for primary prevention of The main concern for doxyPEP implementation is the risk of cardiovascular disease in people with HIV aged 40–75 years, antimicrobial resistance, particularly for gonorrhea, but also for
