Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


primary prevention of The main concern for doxyPEP implementation is the risk of cardiovascular disease in people with HIV aged 40–75 years, antimicrobial resistance, particularly for gonorrhea, but also for regardless of lipid levels and ASCVD risk. The recommenda- the microbiome, including common organisms such as tion is strongest for those with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 5% Staphylococcus. Additional data are needed to fully assess the or higher. For people with HIV aged <40 years, evidence is HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 35 Downloaded from by guest on May insufficient to recommend for or against statin therapy for Evidence Summary primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Decisions in Lipid Abnormalities and Cardiovascular Risk HIV infection is associated with dyslipidemia. In the absence of this age group should be individualized, taking into consid- ART, HIV infection results in lower total cholesterol, high- eration risk-enhancing factors for the general population density lipoprotein (HDL-C), and low-density lipoprotein and for people with HIV. ⚬ High-intensity statins (atorvastatin 40–80 mg daily or ro- (LDL-C) levels. Initiation of ART, specifically with boosted protease inhibitors (PIs), increases LDL-C and improves suvastatin 20–40 mg daily) are recommended for persons with a 10-year ASCVD risk above 20%. HDL-C, but the latter does not normalize to pre-HIV levels ⚬ At least moderate-intensity statins (specifically, pitavasta- . Among nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase in- hibitors (NRTIs), TDF has been associated with lipid-lowering tin 4 mg daily, atorvastatin 20 mg daily, and rosuvastatin effect ; however, TDF is less commonly used currently due 10 mg daily) are recommended for persons with HIV to its effect on kidney function and bone mineral density. Other and at lower risk. NRTIs, such as TAF and abacavir, appear to have a similar and • Prior to starting ART, random or fasting blood glucose and minimal effect on lipids . hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) should be obtained. If random HIV is a recognized independent atherosclerotic cardiovas- glucose is abnormal, fasting glucose should be obtained. cular disease (ASCVD) risk enhancer in the 2018 American After initiation of ART, HbA1C is insensitive and may signif- College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/ icantly underestimate the risk of diabetes. However, an HbA1C that is >6.5% remains a reliable criterion for diagno- AHA) multispecialty cholesterol management guidelines sis of diabetes in people with HIV. If HbA1C is <6.5%, fast- . At this time, there are no validated cardiovascular risk as- sessment tools
