Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


AHA) multispecialty cholesterol management guidelines sis of diabetes in people with HIV. If HbA1C is <6.5%, fast- . At this time, there are no validated cardiovascular risk as- sessment tools for use in people with HIV, and the default is to ing plasma glucose is the best screening test for people with HIV receiving ART. Those with a diagnosis of diabetes mel- use the pooled cohort equations from the 2013 ACC/AHA guidelines and to adjust for the presence of HIV risk enhancers, litus should have their HbA1c level monitored at least every 6 months, with an HbA1c goal of <7% in accordance with the understanding the limitations of such . The frequency of follow-up testing and response to therapy should be based on American Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines. the current National Lipid Association Recommendations for • Weight should be obtained at every visit. In addition, waist Patient-Centered Management of Dyslipidemia: Part 2 and circumference (an indirect marker of visceral fat) should be the 2018 Multispecialty Blood Cholesterol guidelines [255, measured annually. Monitoring and counseling on diet, exer- 262]. All patients should be assessed for ASCVD risk. Those cise, and alcohol intake should start at the time of ART ini- with elevated risk should be further evaluated and managed ac- tiation and be done at every visit. cording to established guidelines. • Current data do not support switching an ART regimen sole- Statin drugs are known to exert a multifactorial effect to pre- ly because of weight gain. vent cardiovascular disease in the general population. The ran- • If liver transaminases are increased, workup for nonalcoholic domized controlled the Stopping Atherosclerosis and Treating fatty liver disease (NAFLD) should include ultrasound, mag- netic resonance imaging (MRI), or CT scan. Presence of stea- Unhealthy Bone With Rosuvastatin in HIV (SATURN)-HIV trial showed that in individuals with HIV and virologic sup- tosis should lead to a fibrosis workup that includes FIB-4, pression, LDL-C <130 mg/dL, and evidence of heightened in- Fibroscan, or MRI elastography, although biopsy remains flammation, rosuvastatin decreased carotid intima-media the standard. Weight reduction is the cornerstone of treat- thickness, improved kidney function, and attenuated systemic ment of NAFLD. Persons with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and vascular inflammation, including decreasing T-cell and (NASH) or fibrosis should be referred to a hepatologist. monocyte activation [263–267], but worsened insulin resis- • Baseline bone densitometry (DXA) screening for osteoporo- tance . Recently, the Randomized Trial to Prevent
