Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


fibrosis should be referred to a hepatologist. monocyte activation [263–267], but worsened insulin resis- • Baseline bone densitometry (DXA) screening for osteoporo- tance . Recently, the Randomized Trial to Prevent sis should be performed in post-menopausal cisgender wom- en and men aged ≥50 years. Screening for transgender Vascular Events in HIV (REPRIEVE) study, a multinational placebo-controlled study that enrolled 7769 participants with people should follow national recommendations based on their individualized risk for osteoporosis. HIV aged 40–75 years who had low to intermediate ASCVD risk, found that pitavastatin 4 mg daily reduced the risk of ma- • Testosterone replacement therapy for cisgender men should jor cardiovascular events by 36%, including for those with be prescribed with caution and only in those with sympto- LDL-C levels below current guideline thresholds for statin ini- matic hypogonadism, given the long-term side effects. See tiation . Overall, the protective effect was seen across Section 11 for discussion of hormone therapy for transgender demographics, CD4 cell count ranges, and viral load levels. men. REPRIEVE is a practice-changing study, and statin use is • Annual screening for frailty should be considered in people with HIV aged >50 years; the frailty phenotype screen is now recommended in people with HIV aged ≥40 years, assum- ing no known allergy to statins or other contraindications, the most commonly used tool. 36 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May Table 7. Effect of Protease Inhibitors and Nonnucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors on Statins Statin Protease Inhibitors Nonnucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor Atorvastatin Use lowest atorvastatin starting dose and titrate, monitor for safety, as risk for myopathy/ Acceptable with appropriate dosing and monitoring rhabdomyolysis can be increased with some protease inhibitors Efavirenz and etravirine decrease atorvastatin’s Do not coadminister with atazanavir/cobicistat AUC Maximum dose of atorvastatin is 20 mg with darunavir/cobicistat or darunavir + ritonavir No data for nevirapine; may need higher atorvastatin starting dose Doravirine does not affect levels of atorvastatin Fluvastatin Use lowest fluvastatin starting dose and titrate, monitor for safety, as risk for myopathy/ Acceptable with appropriate dosing and monitoring rhabdomyolysis can be increased with some protease inhibitors Etravirine may increase fluvastatin’s AUC May need lower fluvastatin starting dose with etravirine No data on doravirine Lovastatin Contraindicated (greatly increases lovastatin’s AUC) Acceptable with appropriate dosing and monitoring Decrease in simvastatin AUC, so may need higher lovastatin starting dose No data on doravirine Pitavastatin Acceptable with
