Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


ASCVD risk of 5% and higher. For those with lower cebo group. Based on data from REPRIEVE, recommendations scores, the benefit is still present but less pronounced. To de- regarding statin therapy in people with HIV have been pub- cide on statin use in this population, additional risk factors, lished by the HHS Adult and Adolescent Antiretroviral as described for the general population as well as Guidelines Panel and a multisociety team that includes the risk-enhancing factors for people with HIV, should be consid- ACC, AHA, and HIVMA . ered. High-intensity statin therapy is recommended for those Despite the fact that pitavastatin was used in REPRIEVE, it is with risk greater than 20%, as for the general population, likely that this preventive effect is generalizable across statins while at least moderate-intensity statin therapy is now recom- and that other statins can be used. High-intensity statins mended for those with lower risk. Additionally, statins may be include atorvastatin 40–80 mg and rosuvastatin 20–40 mg, considered in people with HIV who are younger than the while moderate-intensity statins include pitavastatin 4 mg, REPRIEVE population (aged <40 years ) with additional risk atorvastatin 10–20 mg, and rosuvastatin 10 mg (all taken dai- factors, including those with neonatal or pediatric acquired in- ly). Caution should be used, however, when prescribing statins fection who are now adults with long-standing HIV, a popula- with PIs (especially ritonavir), cobicistat, and some nonnucleo- tion not included in the risk calculators. It is important to note side reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) due to HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 37 Downloaded from by guest on May potentially serious drug–drug interactions (Table 7). Most PIs random or fasting glucose should be obtained at entry to care and cobicistat inhibit the metabolism of statins, thereby in- and annually thereafter for screening of diabetes. Patients creasing the potential for statin toxicity, with the strongest in- with diabetes mellitus should have their HbA1c level moni- teractions seen with simvastatin and lovastatin, which are tored at least every 6 months, with a HbA1c goal of <7% in ac- contraindicated with ritonavir or cobicistat. However, pitavas- cordance with the ADA guidelines. Though controversial, the thereby having little effect when coadministered with a boosted control, with an aim to achieve an HbA1c between 7% and PI or cobicistat. However, pravastatin may adversely interact 8% . Given the potential for over- or underestimation of with
