Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


control, with an aim to achieve an HbA1c between 7% and PI or cobicistat. However, pravastatin may adversely interact 8% . Given the potential for over- or underestimation of with darunavir, and dose modification may be needed. In addi- HbA1c in patients on ART, it is prudent to assess the correla- tion, atorvastatin and rosuvastatin may be used in patients who tion of blood glucose levels with HbA1c values on an individual take a boosted PI or boosted elvitegravir but should be initiated basis in order to determine the appropriate HbA1c target. at low doses and titrated carefully according to tolerability and Lifestyle interventions such as weight loss, increased physical effect. Efavirenz induces statin metabolism, resulting in lower- activity, and dietary modification remain the cornerstone of di- ing of statin levels. Nevirapine, etravirine, and rilpivirine have abetes prevention and management. However, if treatment is not been extensively studied. Doravirine does not affect levels needed, insulin-sensitizing agents are preferred. Patients of atorvastatin . Cobicistat is expected to have interactions should be managed according to the ADA guidelines [273, that are similar to those for ritonavir with statins; however, 279]. No data suggest that switching ARVs is beneficial in pa- these interactions have not been fully studied. There may be tients with impaired glucose tolerance associated with HIV in- other pathways that affect drug metabolism and lead to unex- fection itself or traditional risk factors. pected interactions, and it is advisable to refer to the package insert of the ARV or drug–drug interaction tables from the Weight and Fat Gain HHS ART guidelines before prescribing lipid-lowering agents. Weight gain is a well-recognized consequence of ART initia- tion and is more common in non-White and female individuals Glucose Metabolism and Diabetes . Some regimens, namely integrase inhibitors and TAF, Among people with HIV, HbA1c is insensitive, although highly have been associated with larger gains in weight. However, it specific for diagnosing diabetes. As such, HbA1c is no longer is presently unclear whether the regimens used as comparators the preferred method for diagnosing diabetes among persons suppress weight gain with ART initiation. For instance, TDF with HIV [273–276]. The ADA established the diagnostic criteria use has been associated with weight suppression in PrEP stud- of diabetes mellitus as a fasting plasma glucose level of ≥126 mg/ ies and in HIV treatment initiation studies. Also, when TDF is dL (7.0 mmol/L), a 2-hour plasma glucose
