Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


of diabetes mellitus as a fasting plasma glucose level of ≥126 mg/ ies and in HIV treatment initiation studies. Also, when TDF is dL (7.0 mmol/L), a 2-hour plasma glucose level of ≥200 mg/dL switched to TAF, an increase in weight of about 1 kg on average (11.1 mmol/L) during an oral glucose tolerance test conducted is seen in the initial 6–12 months after switch . with a standard loading dose of 75 g, or an HbA1c ≥ 6.5% Similarly, the ADVANCE study showed that efavirenz (EFV) . However, recognizing the potential underestimation of led to smaller gains in weight when compared with dolutegra- the risk of diabetes by using HbA1C in HIV, the National vir, both given with TAF/FTC . A substudy that assessed Health and Nutrition Examination Survey and others endorse the genetic mutations that control EFV metabolism revealed an HbA1C cutoff of ≥5.8% to improve the sensitivity for diagno- that only slow metabolizers (high EFV blood level) had blunted sis in the population with HIV . Although data are lacking weight gain, whereas fast metabolizers gained an amount of on the effects of integrase inhibitors on HbA1c, some studies, weight that was similar compared with those on dolutegravir but not all, suggest that NNRTIs, PIs, and the NRTIs zidovudine . These data suggest that the weight-suppressive effect of and abacavir may affect HbA1c and result in misleading results EFV may not be desirable and may signal toxic effects. TDF . The ADA 2019 Standards recommend against has been associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in subcu- the use of HbA1c to diagnose diabetes in persons with HIV on taneous adipose tissue, signaling the potential for adipose dys- ART and states that in cases of HbA1c and fasting glucose dis- function with TDF . As such, the weight-suppressive effect cordance, the abnormal laboratory test should be repeated, and of TDF should not necessarily be viewed as desirable. the diagnosis of diabetes should be made only if repeat testing The weight gain seen with ART is concerning for patients is again above the diagnostic cut point . and providers as studies have linked it to a higher incidence Random or fasting serum glucose and HbA1c should be ob- of diabetes and hypertension . There is also evidence tained prior to starting ART. If random blood glucose is abnor- of ectopic fat depositions in people with HIV, for example, in mal, fasting
