Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


hypertension . There is also evidence tained prior to starting ART. If random blood glucose is abnor- of ectopic fat depositions in people with HIV, for example, in mal, fasting blood glucose should be obtained. After initiation the liver and pericardium, which may be detrimental. The of ART, only plasma glucose criteria should be used to diagnose HIV provider who is treating a patient with large gains in diabetes. A random glucose >200 mg/dL should prompt fur- weight after ART may contemplate switching ART. It is impor- ther testing with a fasting blood glucose. Therefore, either a tant to know that switches have not been successful at reversing 38 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May weight gain , including switches off of INSTIs, unless performed to assess for fibrosis. Although biopsy remains the the switch is from INSTI to EFV. However, the EFV-linked standard, newer modalities, including Fibroscan and MRI elas- weight suppressive effect is likely a toxic effect and should tography, are increasingly used. In addition, clinicians have not be seen as desirable. A randomized, placebo-controlled used soluble markers to estimate fibrosis, such as FIB-4, with switch study in virologically suppressed individuals on low FIB-4 (<1.3) conferring a low likelihood of advanced fibro- BIC/TAF/FTC showed similar weight gain at 48 weeks after sis. Lifestyle modification and weight reduction are the corner- switching to islatravir/doravirine compared with continuing stone of treatment. Pharmacotherapy should be reserved for on BIC/TAF/FTC . Discontinuation of TAF did not im- individuals with NASH, particularly for those with significant prove weight in the TANGO study, questioning the indepen- fibrosis ≥ F2 or individuals with less severe disease but at high dent effect of TAF on weight . The TAF-to-TDF switch risk of faster disease progression, such as persons with diabetes. effect, for the purpose of suppressing weight gain, is modest Promising investigational therapies for HIV-associated NAFLD at best, could lead to adipose tissue dysfunction and mitochon- include tesamorelin and GLP-1 receptor agonists . drial toxicity, and thus is not recommended as a strategy to de- crease weight . The benefit of the modest effect on weight Bone Metabolism of TAF-to-TDF switch also needs to be weighed against the Baseline bone densitometry by DEXA should be performed in bone and renal toxicities of TDF. Switch studies from daily all post-menopausal cisgender women and men aged ≥50 oral BIC/FTC/TAF to injectable cabotegravir/rilpivirine
