Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


densitometry by DEXA should be performed in bone and renal toxicities of TDF. Switch studies from daily all post-menopausal cisgender women and men aged ≥50 oral BIC/FTC/TAF to injectable cabotegravir/rilpivirine given years, based on expert opinion with limited supporting evi- every 2 months did not lead to a significant change in weight dence [299–304]. If DEXA scan reveals osteopenia or osteopo- compared with continuation of the oral regimen, further evi- rosis, a workup for secondary causes of osteopenia should be dence that TAF is not likely a culprit in weight gain . performed. The most common secondary causes of osteopenia Glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1 receptor agonists for obesity are vitamin D deficiency, hypogonadism, excess alcohol (>3 should be reserved for select situations while awaiting results drinks/day), smoking, and hyperthyroidism or hyperparathy- of ongoing trials among people with HIV. roidism. The initiation of any ART regimen leads to a decrease All patients on ART should be routinely counseled on life- in BMD of 2%–6%, and the decrease is more prominent in the style modifications, including alcohol reduction/cessation, in- first 24–48 weeks of ART. Among all ART, TDF has been creased physical activity, healthier diet with reduction in shown to lead to a 1%–2% larger decrease in BMD when com- saturated fat and added sugars, and increase in dietary fiber. pared with any other non-TDF regimen, including TAF [305, Patients with large gains in weight may benefit from some of 306]. When TDF is combined with ritonavir-boosted PI, the new agents recommended for obesity in the general popu- bone loss is even more accentuated than when combined lation, such as GLP-1 receptor agonists. Although there are few with unboosted integrase inhibitors . If the DEXA data on their use in people with HIV, a randomized controlled demonstrates osteoporosis or there is a history of fragility trial in people with lipohypertrophy (abdominal obesity) fracture, intervention with vitamin D, calcium, and a bisphos- showed excellent safety and efficacy with decrease in weight phonate or other medical therapy may be warranted. and visceral and trunk fat . Bisphosphonates appear to be safe and effective in improving BMD and in blunting the initial drop in BMD after Liver Steatosis ART initiation . It is important to exclude osteomalacia More data show that NAFLD is common in HIV, with preva- prior to initiating a bisphosphonate, as this could lead to in- lence ranging from 20% to 63%, even
