Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


osteomalacia More data show that NAFLD is common in HIV, with preva- prior to initiating a bisphosphonate, as this could lead to in- lence ranging from 20% to 63%, even in people with HIV with- creased fragility and fracture. Common reasons for osteomala- out HCV. Liver steatosis is linked to obesity and happens at cia in this population are tenofovir-induced renal phosphate lower body mass index (BMI) in the HIV population. NAFLD wasting and vitamin D deficiency, which have been reported represents the most common cause of increased transaminases in 40%–80% of people with HIV. The spectrum and severity in people with HIV without excess alcohol or infectious hepati- of metabolic complications associated with vitamin D defic- tis. NAFLD has been associated with older toxic ART such as iency among adults with HIV remain to be better characterized. didanosine or stavudine but not clearly with newer regimens. Patients with vitamin D deficiency and osteopenia by DEXA NAFLD can progress to NASH, liver cirrhosis, fibrosis, and ul- should be treated with vitamin D and calcium without bisphos- timately cancer. NAFLD is also an independent risk factor for phonates until the vitamin D deficiency has resolved. A follow- cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and all-cause mortality up DEXA should be repeated 1 year later to monitor the re- . Although NAFLD is known to be associated with sponse to therapy. It is now clear that switching off of TDF obesity, HIV-associated NAFLD occurs at lower BMI than in to another NRTI or to an NRTI-sparing regimen is effective the general population. Diagnosis of NAFLD may involve his- at increasing BMD and should be considered . tology (liver biopsy) or imaging (ultrasound, CT scan, or Routine screening for vitamin D deficiency in patients with MRI). Once NAFLD is identified, further workup should be normal or unavailable DEXA is not recommended, given the HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 39 Downloaded from by guest on May lack of data among people with HIV. The USPSTF concludes neurocognitive disorder (HAND) encompasses multiple neuro- that the evidence on screening for vitamin D deficiency in cognitive effects of HIV and associated inflammation on the benefits of regular exercise, with resistance exercise being espe- While there are no specific treatments for HAND at this time, cli- cially important to bone building, normal dietary calcium, and nicians should be aware that some persons with HIV may expe- vitamin
