Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


no specific treatments for HAND at this time, cli- cially important to bone building, normal dietary calcium, and nicians should be aware that some persons with HIV may expe- vitamin D intake and the harmful risks of cigarette smoking rience neurocognitive decline that is out of proportion to their and excessive alcohol consumption. age and should provide an appropriate workup when such symp- In people with HIV, avascular necrosis (AVN) was reported toms present. to be associated with exposure to tenofovir for longer than 1 year in one study . Other more common causes of AVN include moderate to high alcohol consumption, hyperlipid- Frailty emia, and corticosteroid use . Routine radiographic People with HIV are disproportionately affected by frailty and monitoring for AVN in asymptomatic persons is not recom- at a younger age than those without HIV . Prevalence of mended. However, for patients who present with persistent frailty and prefrailty in people with HIV aged >50 years is hip pain who have normal standard radiologic studies, MRI about 11% and 47%, respectively . Frailty is a strong pre- is the preferred method of diagnosis, and both sides should dictor of both mortality and incident comorbidity in people be imaged regardless of whether pain is bilateral or not. Most with HIV, independent of other risk factors . Annual patients with symptomatic AVN will ultimately require surgical screening for frailty should be considered in people with HIV intervention, including hip replacement . aged >50 years. The most commonly used screening tools in- clude the frailty phenotype and the frailty index , Hypogonadism with the former being simpler and more commonly recom- The prevalence of hypogonadism among cisgender men with mended, although it requires a dynamometer. HIV virologic HIV has been reported to be high prior to the introduction suppression decreases the risk of frailty . The most effec- of ART. However, screening for hypogonadism is recommend- tive interventions to prevent and treat frailty are increasing ed only for men who have symptoms . In 2014, the physical activity and structured exercise . Nutritional op- FDA released safety alerts that warned of potential increased timization is effective and increases the efficacy of an exercise cardiac risk associated with testosterone replacement products intervention . Diagnosing and treating concomitant de- [319–321]. Subsequently, a large systematic review and meta- pression is also paramount. There are no data yet to recom- analysis failed to demonstrate an
