Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


. Diagnosing and treating concomitant de- [319–321]. Subsequently, a large systematic review and meta- pression is also paramount. There are no data yet to recom- analysis failed to demonstrate an increased risk of cardiac mend pharmacologic interventions for HIV frailty. events in the general population; however, caution remains . Although the Endocrine Society Guidelines recom- mend short-term testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) for SECTION 8: SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR cisgender men with HIV and low testosterone, many patients INDIVIDUALS OF CHILDBEARING POTENTIAL have remained on TRT long term. It is unclear whether those AND FOR PREVENTION OF PERINATAL HIV TRANSMISSION who were diagnosed with hypogonadism at the time of their HIV diagnosis need to remain on TRT after immune recovery People with HIV who are of childbearing potential are living long, on ART. Since the FDA advisory, the overall percentage of cis- healthy lives, and the need for routine gynecological care has in- with HIV . As the population of men with HIV ages, cerns as those not living with HIV. As part of the initial clinicians should balance the benefits against the harms of con- assessment, a comprehensive gynecologic and obstetrical history tinuing TRT that may no longer be indicated. TRT may result should be obtained that consists of menstrual history, sexual in testicular atrophy and permanent inability to produce the practices, hormonal therapy history and current use, male or fe- natural hormone. Men may experience “withdrawal” when male condom use and consistency of use, previous STIs and other TRT is stopped, given the steroidal effects of testosterone as genital tract infections, prior abnormal Pap test results including well. Therefore, initial TRT should be prescribed with caution subsequent evaluation and treatment, pregnancy history, history and only in cisgender men with symptomatic hypogonadism, of gynecologic conditions (including uterine fibroids, endometri- given the long-term side effects. osis, and infertility) or surgery (including gender reassignment surgery), and current gynecologic symptoms (including abnor- Neurocognitive Impairment mal vaginal discharge, abnormal vaginal bleeding, amenorrhea, Neurocognitive impairment is more common in older people and pelvic pain). Recommendations for care during menopause with HIV than those not living with HIV . HIV-associated do not differ from those for persons not diagnosed with HIV. 40 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May Contraception and Prepregnancy Care to beginning efforts to conceive. With durable viral suppres- Recommendation sion, there is effectively no risk of sexual transmission.
