Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


al Downloaded from by guest on May Contraception and Prepregnancy Care to beginning efforts to conceive. With durable viral suppres- Recommendation sion, there is effectively no risk of sexual transmission. For cou- ples that are using condoms and wish to limit their episodes of • All persons with HIV who are of childbearing potential condomless sex, a discussion about sex during the time of peak should be asked about their plans and desires regarding preg- fertility is appropriate. Prepregnancy administration of ARV nancy upon initiation of care and routinely thereafter. PrEP for the partner not diagnosed with HIV offers an addi- Clinicians should ensure that informed decisions are made tional means to reduce the risk of sexual transmission . about contraception to prevent unintended pregnancy and offer counseling if pregnancy is desired. Counseling should include considerations for the choices of ART and infant Prevention of Perinatal Transmission Recommendations feeding methods. Evidence Summary • To prevent perinatal transmission, all pregnant and breast-/ Any encounter with a nonpregnant patient with reproductive chest-feeding persons with HIV should be treated with ART, potential is an opportunity to counsel about wellness and regardless of their immunologic or virologic status. Therapy healthy habits that may improve reproductive and obstetrical should be initiated as early as possible, preferably prior to outcomes if the patient decides to reproduce . An in-depth conception. discussion about childbearing is indicated if the patient ex- • Infants exposed to HIV in utero should be managed accord- presses the desire for future pregnancy, is not trying to conceive ing to HHS perinatal guidelines. but is not using appropriate contraception, or expresses uncer- tainty about reproductive plans. Regardless of the patient’s sex, Evidence Summary the goal is to ensure that informed decisions are made about Perinatal transmission of HIV is preventable if pregnant per- contraception with prevention of an unintended pregnancy sons are screened for HIV and, if diagnosed with HIV, receive and to offer counseling if pregnancy is desired. Patients should immediate ART according to HHS perinatal guidelines [120, explicitly be asked to communicate with their provider if their 337]. If HIV status is unknown, pregnant people should be test- plans change, when they are ready to consider pregnancy, or ed for HIV at the first antenatal visit and again in the third tri- when they have questions related to reproduction and parent- mester if there is ongoing risk of exposure to HIV.
