Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


at the first antenatal visit and again in the third tri- when they have questions related to reproduction and parent- mester if there is ongoing risk of exposure to HIV. In those who hood. In persons who are at risk for pregnancy (trying to con- start ART before conception and maintain viral load suppres- ceive or not using effective and consistent contraception), sion <50 copies/mL, there is essentially zero risk of perinatal providers should carefully review all medications, including transmission . over-the-counter medications, and avoid drugs with potential If an individual in labor presents for delivery without having reproductive toxicity. The time of greatest risk to the fetus is antenatal HIV testing, an expedited HIV test (preferably early in pregnancy, often before the pregnancy has been recog- fourth-generation HIV antigen/antibody testing) should be nized. Ideally, a prenatal vitamin with folic acid should be pre- performed. If the test is positive, intravenous zidovudine scribed prior to conception. Choice of ART for use during should be initiated immediately without waiting for confirma- pregnancy and breast/chest feeding is discussed in detail in tory tests . Persons who are pregnant and who have an HHS perinatal guidelines . HIV viral load that is unknown or >1000 copies/mL at or counseled on effective contraception. Combined estrogen–pro- ART, should be counseled regarding the potential benefit of ce- gestin hormonal contraceptives (birth control pill, transdermal sarean delivery. If the patient consents, a scheduled cesarean patch, and vaginal ring) are one option; however, they may delivery at 38 weeks’ gestation should be offered to reduce have interactions with several ARVs, resulting in decreased ef- the risk of perinatal transmission . All newborns who fectiveness or increased risk of adverse effects. Contraceptive were exposed perinatally to HIV should receive postpartum implants, injectable contraception (depot medroxyprogester- ARV drugs to reduce the risk of perinatal transmission of one acetate), and intrauterine devices are other available op- HIV. Post-exposure prophylaxis in the neonate should be initi- tions. Spermicides have been associated with an increased ated ideally within 6 hours . A newborn’s ARV regimen risk of HIV acquisition and are not recommended for use should be determined by maternal HIV transmission risk fac- with partners who are not diagnosed with HIV . tors according to the perinatal guidelines. Providers with ques- Providers should be prepared to discuss conception among tions about ARV management of perinatal HIV exposure serodifferent couples. The partner with
