Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


tors according to the perinatal guidelines. Providers with ques- Providers should be prepared to discuss conception among tions about ARV management of perinatal HIV exposure serodifferent couples. The partner with HIV should always be should consult an expert in pediatric HIV infection or the started/continued on ART and achieve/maintain sustained Perinatal HIV/AIDS National Clinician Consultation Center HIV RNA suppression to below the limits of detection prior hotline . HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 41 Downloaded from by guest on May Infant Feeding antibody or HIV antigen/antibody tests are recommended Recommendations for diagnostic testing. • Infants and children diagnosed with HIV should be started • In the United States, persons with HIV should receive on ART immediately or within days of diagnosis. The urgen- evidence-based, patient-centered counseling to support cy of Rapid ART initiation is especially critical for children shared decision-making about infant feeding. aged <1 year who carry the highest risk of rapid disease pro- • Individuals with HIV who are on ART with a sustained un- gression and mortality. detectable viral load and who choose to breast/chest feed • In children with disseminated Mycobacterium avium com- should be supported in their decision. plex disease, M. tuberculosis disease, and cryptococcal men- • Engaging Child Protective Services is not an appropriate re- ingitis, ART initiation may be delayed by 2–8 weeks with sponse to the choice of infant feeding for individuals with treatment for the OI prioritized. Appropriate timing of HIV. ART initiation in these cases should be discussed with a pe- diatric HIV specialist. Evidence Summary • If a child with HIV has not initiated ART, healthcare provid- Counseling about infant feeding should begin prior to concep- ers should closely monitor the virologic, immunologic, and tion or as early as possible in pregnancy and should be repeated clinical status at least every 3–4 months while continuing throughout pregnancy and again after delivery . Choosing to educate and work with the family to overcome barriers a method of feeding for a baby is one of the most important de- to treatment. cisions a new parent makes. The decision can be compounded • Absolute CD4 cell count (or CD4 percentage in children aged by mixed messages from providers who are uncomfortable <5 years) and HIV RNA levels should be evaluated at the talking about infant feeding for people with HIV. With current time of diagnosis and should be monitored
