Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


are uncomfortable <5 years) and HIV RNA levels should be evaluated at the talking about infant feeding for people with HIV. With current time of diagnosis and should be monitored at least every ART, rates of HIV transmission through breast/chest feeding 3–4 months in infants and children. Close follow-up also al- are low but not zero. Currently, there is no consensus on a uni- lows for timely weight-based ART dose adjustment in infants versal approach, and diverse strategies are used for HIV RNA and young children. monitoring for the breast-/chest-feeding parents, infant HIV • Childhood vaccinations should be administered according to testing, and ARV prophylaxis . Individuals with ACIP schedules for infants and children with HIV. HIV who choose to formula feed should be supported in this • Infants and children with HIV should be managed by a spe- decision. Providers should ask about potential barriers to for- cialist with knowledge of the unique therapeutic, pharmaco- mula feeding and explore ways to address them. Replacement logic, behavioral, psychosocial, and developmental issues feeding with formula or banked pasteurized donor human associated with pediatric HIV infection. milk is recommended to eliminate the risk of HIV transmission through breast/chest feeding when people with HIV are not on Evidence Summary ART and/or do not have a suppressed viral load during preg- Most pediatric HIV infections are caused by perinatal transmis- nancy (at a minimum throughout the third trimester), as well sion of the virus from the mother during pregnancy, delivery, as at delivery. Engaging Child Protective Services or similar or breastfeeding. The racial and ethnic disparities in the HIV agencies is not an appropriate response to the infant feeding epidemic among adults in the United States are, therefore, mir- choices of an individual with HIV. rored in pediatric populations. The rate of acquisition of HIV infection among infants has decreased significantly in the SECTION 9: SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR United States, primarily because of effective measures to pre- CHILDREN vent mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Between 2010 and Recommendations 2019, annual perinatal HIV diagnosis rates declined from 1.9 to 0.9 per 100 000 live births, and perinatal HIV transmission • A plasma HIV NAAT (HIV RNA or HIV DNA) is equally rates declined from 1.6% to 0.9%. National elimination goals recommended to diagnose HIV in infants and children for diagnosis and transmission rate of perinatal HIV were first aged <18 months with perinatal and post-natal HIV
