Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


0.9%. National elimination goals recommended to diagnose HIV in infants and children for diagnosis and transmission rate of perinatal HIV were first aged <18 months with perinatal and post-natal HIV achieved in 2019. However, perinatal transmission of HIV still exposure. occurs, and racial and ethnic disparities persist, requiring ongo- results of a plasma HIV NAAT can be affected by maternal HIV transmission in children include feeding blood-tinged ART or by ARV drugs administered to the infant as prophy- premasticated food, contact of nonintact skin with blood- laxis or presumptive HIV therapy. containing body fluid, transfusion of contaminated blood • For children aged 18 to ≤24 months with nonperinatal HIV products, and sexual abuse. These scenarios should prompt exposure and for all children aged >24 months, HIV testing of the child for HIV infection. HIV testing should also 42 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May be conducted among all children in foster care and those who higher normal absolute lymphocyte counts than adults. In were adopted domestically (if unknown exposure or at risk for young children (aged <5 years), CD4 percentages are less var- acquiring HIV) and internationally (since perinatal HIV iable than absolute counts . Infants and children with un- screening is variable in global settings) . Children with diagnosed HIV are likely to present with unexplained fevers, HIV are frequently born outside the United States, including hepatosplenomegaly, generalized lymphadenopathy, paroti- adopted children and members of immigrant families. These tis, persistent oral and diaper candidiasis, recurrent invasive children may have non-B subtypes of HIV, incomplete medical bacterial infections, recurrent diarrhea, failure to thrive, cen- and treatment histories, and an increased risk of tuberculosis tral nervous system diseases, and delays in growth and devel- and other infections. opment . Neonates and infants (including breastfed infants) who are While initiating and managing pediatric ART, it is essential exposed to HIV perinatally or postpartum should be managed to understand that achieving consistent adherence in children according to HHS perinatal and pediatric guidelines . is often challenging. Intensive adherence counseling and Plasma HIV RNA and HIV DNA NAATs are equally recom- follow-up during the first few weeks to months after ART ini- mended for diagnosis of HIV in infants aged <18 months. tiation is recommended to support the child and caregiver, in- However, both tests can be affected by maternal ART through cluding detailed instructions on the administration
