Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


infants aged <18 months. tiation is recommended to support the child and caregiver, in- However, both tests can be affected by maternal ART through cluding detailed instructions on the administration of ARV transplacental transfer of ARV drugs from the mother to the fe- drugs and caregiver treatment literacy . After initiation of tus or by ARV drugs administered to the infant as prophylaxis ART or after a change in ARV regimen, children should be or presumptive HIV therapy. Qualitative whole blood HIV followed up in 1–2 weeks to assess effectiveness, tolerability, proviral DNA PCR assays to detect cell-associated virus are and adverse events and to evaluate and support medication ad- less affected by ARV drugs . For children aged 18 to herence. Head circumference should be measured in children ≤24 months with nonperinatal HIV exposure and for all chil- aged <3 years and plotted against standard growth curves. dren aged >24 months, HIV antibody or HIV antigen/antibody Furthermore, developmental assessment is important in infants tests are used for diagnostic testing. For suspected acute HIV and children. Laboratory testing for toxicity and viral load re- infection, an additional HIV NAAT may be necessary to diag- sponse is recommended at 2–4 weeks after treatment initiation nose HIV infection. or change in ARV regimen. Clinicians and multidisciplinary All infants and children diagnosed with HIV should be start- teams should schedule frequent clinical in-person and/or tele- ed on ART as soon after diagnosis as possible (immediately or medicine visits to monitor patients closely during the first few within days) using regimens based on pediatric HHS guidelines months after initiating a new ART regimen. For infants, more . Multiple studies have reported that early ART initiation in frequent clinical visits are required to ensure that growth and infants and children preserves immune function and is associ- development are on schedule, that appropriate adjustments ated with improved growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes of dosage are made, and that the infant is tolerating ART. [342–344]. In infants with perinatally acquired infection, early CD4 cell count can be monitored less frequently (every 6–12 ART initiation may limit the formation of the viral reservoir months) in children who are adherent to therapy, who have and control of viral replication before HIV can evolve into di- sustained virologic suppression and CD4 cell count values verse and potentially more pathogenic and/or resistant that are well above the threshold for OI risk, and
