Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


HIV can evolve into di- sustained virologic suppression and CD4 cell count values verse and potentially more pathogenic and/or resistant that are well above the threshold for OI risk, and who have sta- ease progression, and improve neurodevelopmental outcomes. months is recommended to monitor ART adherence. Early initiation of suppressive ART in infants aged <6 months Caregivers, families, and children with HIV face a wide array results in a considerable proportion of infants with HIV who of socioeconomic, educational, legal, immigration, and struc- fail to produce their own HIV-specific antibodies. These infants tural challenges that affect adherence and retention in care are HIV-seronegative when tested; however, viral reservoirs and require ongoing case management support to achieve 344]. It is, therefore, important to educate the caregiver on outcomes. Disclosure of HIV status to children with perinatally the importance of continuing consistent ART without treat- acquired HIV is an emotionally and socially complex process ment interruptions. that requires caregiver and child support. Studies suggest that Genotypic resistance testing should be performed at the time disclosure of perinatal HIV status can increase self-esteem of diagnosis; however, ART can be initiated before results are and adherence to ART and improve access to psychosocial sup- available. All infants should receive Pneumocystis jirovecii pro- port [347–350]. phylaxis in the first year of life, irrespective of CD4 cell count or All recommended childhood immunizations should be ad- percentage . In general, infants with untreated perinatally ministered to infants exposed to HIV. If HIV infection is con- acquired HIV have higher viral loads than adults, and there are firmed, immunologic status (CD4 cell count or percentage) age-specific differences in CD4 cell counts, with infants having should be assessed, and guidelines for the immunizations of HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 43 Downloaded from by guest on May with HIV should be immunized with all age-appropriate inac- biological and psychosocial changes that normally occur in ad- tivated vaccines. Inactivated influenza vaccine should be olescence, often cope with stigma, disclosure, loss of family administered annually according to the most current recom- members, and negotiation of sexual activity. In many studies, mendations. In general, the administration of live vaccines, rates of cognitive, psychiatric, and behavioral problems are such as MMR and varicella, is guided by the CD4 cell count higher in those with perinatally acquired infection . or percentage. Rotavirus vaccine, however, should be adminis- As a result of
