Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


MMR and varicella, is guided by the CD4 cell count higher in those with perinatally acquired infection . or percentage. Rotavirus vaccine, however, should be adminis- As a result of these challenges, many youths with perinatally ac- tered to infants with HIV or exposed to HIV irrespective of quired infection have poorer adherence to ART and may expe- CD4 cell count or percentage . rience decreased engagement in care compared to with other In the era of ART, there has been a substantial decrease in populations . Disclosure for this population is complicat- frequency of OIs and malignancies in children . ed as it includes becoming aware of one’s own diagnosis and the Prevention and treatment of OIs in children should be man- subsequent self-disclosure of one’s diagnosis to others (eg, sex- aged according to the HHS pediatric OI guidelines . ual partners). While disclosure of diagnosis by the caregiver to Leiomyosarcomas and non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphomas of the the child or adolescent can be overwhelming to caregivers, it Burkitt type (including those in the central nervous system) oc- should occur by late childhood and prior to adolescence, as it cur more frequently in children with HIV than in immuno- has been correlated with better adjustment to illness, lower competent children. Kaposi sarcoma, caused by human rates of depression, and improved adherence with care and herpesvirus 8, is rare in children in the United States but has ART . Support should be provided for both types been documented in children with HIV who have emigrated of disclosure. Screening for and addressing mental health chal- from sub-Saharan African countries. lenges and concerns is an important part of caring for this population. SECTION 10: SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR Puberty may affect drug metabolism, underscoring the im- ADOLESCENTS portance of adolescent-specific studies. Decisions regarding dosing should take into consideration sexual maturity, with Recommendations those with a sexual maturity rating ≥4 being dosed according to adult treatment guidelines. This is becoming less relevant be- • Adolescents with HIV require an individual and develop- cause weight-based dosing is becoming the standard of care. mentally guided approach to therapy and care, ideally Special attention should be paid to attaining and maintaining through an HIV specialist and team with expertise in this viral suppression, along with risk reduction counseling, STI population. and pregnancy prevention, and secondary HIV prevention in • Adolescents with HIV should be counseled about preventa- early
