Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


expertise in this viral suppression, along with risk reduction counseling, STI population. and pregnancy prevention, and secondary HIV prevention in • Adolescents with HIV should be counseled about preventa- early or later adolescence . tive measures, including smoking cessation, alcohol and oth- Long-term treatment, which may result in treatment fatigue, viral resistance due to suboptimal adherence or good adherence including safer sex practices, to prevent development of to suboptimal regimens, or potential end-organ toxicity, there- comorbidities. fore, requires monitoring . Early-acquired HIV, particu- • Screening for early detection and management of comorbid- larly in the setting of suboptimal viral suppression, can result ities should be considered for adolescents with HIV. in chronic immune activation and inflammation, which leads • Vaccinations should be administered according to ACIP to noncommunicable disease comorbidities (eg, metabolic syn- schedules for children with HIV, including ensuring catch- drome, dyslipidemia, chronic kidney disease, obesity, bone dis- up vaccinations, if applicable, and administration of vaccines ease, atherosclerotic vascular disease, and cardiopulmonary that prevent comorbidities, if applicable. abnormalities) [352, 358–361]. This risk is compounded by • Adolescents with HIV should have a coordinated, deliberate modifiable risk factors, particularly smoking/vaping and poor transition to adult care, with an emphasis on supporting their diet, which often begin during adolescence. Caring for youths capacity for self-care including, but not limited to, retention, with early-acquired HIV necessitates a life course approach adherence to care, medical literacy, and engagement in men- with counseling regarding modifiable risk factors; prevention, tal health and substance use treatment. including smoking cessation, dietary modification, and vacci- Evidence Summary nation against preventable conditions; and screening for and The care of adolescents with HIV, whether perinatally or non- early management of comorbidities . perinatally acquired, presents many challenges . Youth who acquired HIV through sexual activity or injection The median age of the US cohort of children who acquired HIV drug use, in addition to the biological and psychosocial changes early in life, primarily via perinatal transmission, is now mid to that normally occur in adolescence, have issues that are similar late teens, and many have reached adulthood with to those for adults, including high rates of substance use; STIs; 44 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May PTSD ; and social determinants that may present barriers Therapy to care . Sexual and gender identity and sexual behaviors Gender identity: An individual’s sense of being male,
