Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


must be given better match patient gender identity Masculinizing hormone therapy: The use of testosterone with the objective of to synergistically attend to the diverse needs of the adolescent inducing changes in physical characteristics to better match patient gender that extend beyond medical care, including employment, inde- identity pendent living, and intimate relationships. Over time, youths Sex assigned at birth: Refers to a person’s status as male, female, or intersex based on physical characteristics at birth must learn to negotiate the healthcare system and assume in- creasing responsibility for their healthcare. There are several re- sources on best practices for transitioning youths with HIV to transgender or gender diverse . It is important to use adult care [7, 372–375]. the appropriate terminology when talking with and about transgender persons. Many terms are used and often are con- SECTION 11: CONSIDERATIONS FOR TRANSGENDER fused with each other or used incorrectly (Table 8). Gender dys- AND GENDER-DIVERSE ADULTS phoria refers to the discomfort that some transgender people may experience due to the discrepancy between their gender Recommendations identity and sex assigned at birth. Some individuals opt for medical interventions, such as the use of gender-affirming hor- • Transgender and gender-diverse persons with HIV should have access to care that is gender-affirming, nondiscrimina- mones and surgeries, to align their physical characteristics with their gender identity. tory, nonstigmatizing, and culturally sensitive. Stigma and discrimination are serious issues that threaten • Intake forms, medical records, and other documentation the quality of care for transgender and gender-diverse persons, should include gender identity options in addition to sex as- regardless of HIV status. Nearly half of transgender persons signed at birth, chosen name and pronouns, and legal name. face family rejection, 40% report a history of attempted suicide, • Transgender persons should be offered medically necessary 29% live in poverty, 30% have experienced homelessness, 33% gender-affirming interventions in accordance with national have experienced discrimination within the healthcare system, guidelines. and 23% avoid the healthcare system due to fear of discrimina- • HIV care providers should be familiar with gender-affirming tion . Global estimates show a pooled HIV prevalence of hormone treatment and necessary clinical and laboratory 19.9% (95% CI, 14.7%–25.1%) among transgender women, monitoring or provide referral to a clinician or endocrinolo- with 66-fold higher odds of HIV prevalence than the general gist experienced in transgender care. population . Data among transgender men are limited, Evidence Summary
