Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


to a clinician or endocrinolo- with 66-fold higher odds of HIV prevalence than the general gist experienced in transgender care. population . Data among transgender men are limited, Evidence Summary but estimated HIV prevalence is 2.56% (95% CI, .0%–5.9%) Transgender people identify with a gender that differs from . Given the disproportionate impact of HIV on transgen- mately 1.3 million adults in the United States identify as systems and healthcare providers should strive to create more HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 45 Downloaded from by guest on May ments. Clinic intake and registration forms should allow selec- lactone. Target levels for individuals receiving feminizing GAHT tion of gender identity in addition to assigned sex at birth . are serum total testosterone <50 ng/dL and serum estradiol ap- Patients should be addressed using their chosen name (when proximately 100–200 pg/mL . different from legal name) and pronouns. Additionally, educa- For masculinizing hormone therapy, testosterone remains der individuals create a better sense of inclusion. Staff should deepening of voice, increased muscle mass, and facial hair, typ- undergo training on gender diversity and delivery of culturally ically start within 3–6 months . Androgen therapy may re- competent and sensitive care. This comprehensive approach by sult in erythrocytosis, increases in LDL cholesterol, and all staff may facilitate patient empowerment, care engagement, increases in serum creatinine . After initiating testos- and viral suppression . terone therapy, hemoglobin/hematocrit and serum testoster- Gender-affirming hormone therapy (GAHT) is safe when one should be measured every 3 months for the first year and provided under medical supervision. This care is often provid- 1–2 times per year thereafter. The serum total testosterone level ed by primary care providers and HIV specialists who have re- should be maintained in the normal physiologic cisgender male ceived training, including informally, through mentorship or range of 400 to 700 ng/dL . continuing medical education . HIV care providers Several ARV regimens, including NRTIs, unboosted INSTIs, should be familiar with gender-affirming hormone treatment rilpivirine, and doravirine, are not anticipated to impact GAHT ferral to a medical provider or endocrinologist experienced in els may be decreased by the NNRTIs efavirenz, etravirine, and transgender care. Persons should be offered GAHT in accor- nevirapine. Ritonavir-boosted PIs may increase or decrease es- those published by the Endocrine Society and the ol . Testosterone levels are increased by boosted PIs and . Before initiating gender-affirming medical therapy
