Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


PIs may increase or decrease es- those published by the Endocrine Society and the ol . Testosterone levels are increased by boosted PIs and . Before initiating gender-affirming medical therapy for and nevirapine . When pharmacokinetic interactions are gender identity is persistent and that they have the capacity as serum hormone concentrations and adjust hormone doses to consent to treatment. The clinician should review expecta- as needed. It is important to provide patients with accurate in- tions in terms of the timeline for changes and types of changes formation on drug–drug interactions between their ART and associated with hormone therapy, as well as a balanced risk as- hormone therapy, including the lack of deleterious effects on sessment of those therapies. Prior to initiating hormone thera- hormone therapy, and to make dose adjustments as appropri- py or undergoing gonadectomy, clinicians should discuss ate. Lack of communication around this concern may contrib- parenthood goals, the impact of these interventions on fertility, ute to fear of drug–drug interactions and poor adherence to one and available options for sperm or oocyte preservation . therapy or the other . Some payers may require an assessment and referral letter from a mental health professional prior to gender-affirming SECTION 12: COVID-19 AND HIV medical interventions. Feminizing hormone regimens typically use estrogen and People with HIV have been impacted by SARS-CoV-2 infection antiandrogen medications, such as spironolactone. In 3–6 (COVID-19) since the early days of the pandemic. Early on, the months, patients may start to experience breast growth, de- presumption was that people with HIV would fare poorly due creased muscle mass, softer skin, redistribution of body fat, to damaged immune systems, but that has not necessarily prov- and fewer spontaneous erections . Transgender individuals en to be the case. This section discusses the interaction of who receive estrogen therapy may be at increased risk of hyper- COVID-19 and HIV only. IDSA has excellent living guidelines triglyceridemia, venous thromboembolism (VTE), and cardio- for COVID-19 management and treatment for the general pop- vascular disease. Transdermal estrogen formulations may pose ulation . The best protections against COVID-19 for peo- lower risk of thrombosis and are preferred for those aged >45 ple with HIV are up-to-date vaccinations and good health years, with a history of VTE, or with known risk factors for car- hygiene and safety. It is important for providers to remember diovascular disease . Oral conjugated estrogen formulations that
