Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


with a history of VTE, or with known risk factors for car- hygiene and safety. It is important for providers to remember diovascular disease . Oral conjugated estrogen formulations that HIV care should not be disrupted simply due to and ethinyl estradiol are not recommended due to an increased COVID-19. In fact, aiming for viral suppression and maximi- risk of thromboembolic events . Smoking cessation should zation of CD4 count is recommended to prevent more severe of serum estradiol and testosterone should occur every 3 months even 1 year after general quarantines ended, access to HIV care for the first year and once to twice per year thereafter, with was limited, and many people with HIV had disruptions in HIV 46 • CID • Horberg et al Downloaded from by guest on May care, including refills of ART, disease monitoring, provider vis- CD4 <350 cells/µL was associated with an increased risk of its, and laboratory testing . Providers who care for hospitalization . People with HIV should be on people who are more severely immunocompromised (CD4 ART and aim for CD4 count >200 cells/µL but ideally <200 cells/µL) should ensure that their office is safe for people >350 cells/µL. This is especially important for decreasing the with HIV. The CDC guidelines should be consulted for the lat- risk of hospitalization or more severe COVID-19 infection est healthcare facility guidelines. . Additional evidence suggests that all persons (regardless of HIV status) would benefit from weight loss, as obesity is as- sociated with more severe COVID-19 infection . Data also Recommendations suggest that a higher risk for more severe COVID-19 is associ- ated with cirrhosis, alcoholic hepatitis, chronic kidney disease, • CD4 count and viral suppression should be maximized to diabetes mellitus, and smoking . Further, chronic pulmo- lower risk for COVID. nary disease, specifically bronchiectasis, chronic obstructive • Weight loss should be encouraged because obesity is a signif- pulmonary disease, interstitial lung disease, pulmonary embo- icant risk factor for severe COVID-19 infection. lism, and pulmonary hypertension, have been associated with • Pulmonary comorbidities should be treated to maximize more severe COVID-19 infection, including greatly increased protection against severe COVID-19 infection. risk of hospitalization and death. All of these conditions should • It is important to ensure that patients with more advanced be maximally optimized prior to infection (including stopping HIV are fully vaccinated, including vaccines targeted to new- smoking) to lower
