Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


It is important to ensure that patients with more advanced be maximally optimized prior to infection (including stopping HIV are fully vaccinated, including vaccines targeted to new- smoking) to lower the risk of severe infection. er SARS-CoV-2 variants, and to use mRNA vaccines when Early data (from 2020) showed an association between de- possible (see Section 4). creased access to testing among non-Latino Blacks and Latinos • There is no evidence that people with HIV and COVID-19 and late diagnoses with more severe COVID-19 infections require a change to their ART simply due to presence of . While testing access improved during the pandemic and COVID-19 coinfection. • HIV is not a contraindication to COVID-19 vaccination, and main key for certain subpopulations. Vaccination against COVID-19 vaccination does not impact HIV viremia. COVID-19, including all recommended boosters, is key for • Treatment recommendations for COVID-19 in people with COVID-19 prevention and lowering risk for severe COVID-19 HIV are the same as for people without HIV, and treatment infections in people with HIV (see Section 4). Consistent evi- recommendations do not change by HIV viral load or CD4 dence indicates that people with HIV with CD4 count cell count. >200 cells/µL have robust immune response (approximating • Treatment of COVID-19 is not changed by HIV infection, that of people without HIV infection), but mRNA vaccines per- and ART is not changed due to treatment for COVID-19. form superiorly to other vaccines . Further, HIV • Dexamethasone and other corticosteroids should not be is not a contraindication to COVID-19 vaccination, regardless used in the outpatient setting when caring for people of CD4 count or degree of HIV viral suppression, and with HIV who have COVID-19 in the absence of other COVID-19 vaccination does not impact HIV viremia [181, indications. 401]. Even with effective vaccination, there is still some evidence • It is important to be cognizant of significant drug–drug inter- that people with HIV are at increased risk for breakthrough infec- actions with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and all medica- tion; however, the need for hospitalization or risk of death is not tions and supplements. Antiretroviral therapy does not increased relative to people without HIV . require dose adjustments in this setting. Controversy persists on the role of ARV agents in preventing • Previously disproven COVID-19 treatment should not be COVID-19 infection or mitigating the severity of infection in used for people with HIV, including
