Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: hiv, persons, care, screening, people, use, dna, art, testing, including, risk, years, people hiv, patients, treatment


the role of ARV agents in preventing • Previously disproven COVID-19 treatment should not be COVID-19 infection or mitigating the severity of infection in used for people with HIV, including ivermectin and sotrovi- people with HIV. Observational evidence from several studies mab in the outpatient setting. has suggested that tenofovir may be associated with lower • Because people with HIV may be at increased risk of PCCs, risk of severe COVID-19; however, no confirmatory data ask about PCC-related symptoms among people with HIV from randomized trials exist . Similarly, evidence for PIs who are post-30 days from COVID-19 diagnosis. and prevention of COVID-19 remains inconclusive . Evidence Summary There is no evidence to suggest that people with HIV and People with HIV are at increased risk of acquiring COVID-19 require a change to their ART simply because of SARS-CoV-2 infection and possibly of becoming reinfected the COVID-19 infection. No change is required to ART while with SARS-CoV-2, with risk inversely proportional to CD4 on anti–COVID-19 treatment, including remdesivir or cell count, especially if CD4 count is <200 cells/µL [180, ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir. Close monitoring for potential 393–395]. In multiple studies, it was found that a CD4 count increased risk of side effects is recommended. However, dexa- <200 cells/µL was associated with increased mortality, while methasone and other corticosteroids used as anti–COVID-19 HIVMA/IDSA HIV Primary Care Guidance • CID • 47 Downloaded from by guest on May treatment should be avoided in the outpatient setting because support for travel from the HIV Congress (India); and past service on the side effects may increase due to drug–drug interactions . HIVMA Board of Directors. G. M. reports grants from Astellas, Redhill, Genentech, Cognivue, and Pfizer; consulting fees from Gilead, Merck, As discussed in Section 4, PCCs are an ever-increasing phe- and ViiV/GSK; and consulting fees from Janssen. A. R. reports serving as nomenon following SARS-CoV-2 infection. The exact incidence a board member for the American Sexual Health Association and the ing as chair of the Committee on Pediatric and Adolescent HIV at the evidence that people with HIV may be at increased risk for American Academy of Pediatrics. W. R. S. reports consulting fees from PCCs, especially if not virally suppressed or with a lower CD4 ViiV Healthcare and payment or honoraria for lectures from ViiV count [406–408]. As such, providers should ask about Healthcare. T. S. reports research funding from Gilead Sciences and
