Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


ABSTRACT Graves' disease (GD) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by hyperthyroidism and various systemic manifestations, including thyroid eye disease (TED) and, less commonly, dermopathy. This chapter provides an in-depth review of GD, covering its history, epidemiology, risk factors, and the molecular mechanisms underlying autoimmune hyperthyroidism. Emphasis is placed on emerging insights into the genetic, environmental, and immunological factors contributing to GD's multifactorial pathogenesis. The chapter also explores the pathogenic role of TSH receptor antibodies and their significance in diagnosis and treatment, alongside key clinical features of thyrotoxicosis. For complete coverage of all related areas of Thyroidology please visit our Free web-site https://www.thyroidmanager.org . For complete coverage of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Graves' disease (GD) is an autoimmune form of hyperthyroidism characterized by multisystemic manifestations of thyrotoxicosis and, in some cases, extrathyroidal manifestations of thyroid autoimmunity including, frequently, thyroid eye disease (TED) and rarely pretibial dermopathy. There are therefore diverse phenotypic presentations of thyroid autoimmunity, and patients do not necessarily present with thyrotoxicosis as the main manifestation of their autoimmune phenomena. Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) typically includes two major categories of manifestations. Those specific to GD, and caused by the autoimmunity per se, including goiter, TED, and dermatopathy (TED and dermopathy are discussed in the chapter “Graves’ disease: Complications”). The second set of problems is caused by the excess thyroid hormone and its widespread disturbance in metabolism. These thyrotoxic manifestations do not differ from those induced by any other cause of excess of thyroid hormone. Alternative etiologies of thyrotoxicosis are described in other chapters. HISTORY The triad of goiter, tachycardia, and ophthalmopathy was independently described by Caleb Parry (1755-1822) and Karl A. Von Basedow (1799 - 1854), but it is the description by the Irish physician Robert James Graves (1796 - 1853) ( Figure 1 ) ( 1 ) that is the source of the acronym in the English literature, Graves' disease (GD). However, in many countries, the term Morbus Basedow is widely used to describe autoimmune hyperthyroidism. The autoimmunity reflected in GD is related to antibodies directed against the TSH receptor (TSH-R) expressed at the basolateral membrane of thyroid follicular cells. Initially, serum factors that were thought to be a modified TSH molecule and produced exophthalmos in experimental animal models were given the eponym exophthalmos producing substance ( 2 , 3 ). Later, Adams et al. identified a factor in human serum that could
