Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


). Female (lifetime risk 3%, eight-folds greater than in men) and middle-aged individuals (30 to 50 years of age) are at higher risk. The manifestations of disease tend to be more pronounced in patients younger than 65 years, while older patients tend to have an abbreviated presentation, with mainly cardiac manifestations ( 14 , 15 ). Around 50% of patients with GD have a family history of autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD). Aside from the infrequent occurrence of postnatal thyrotoxicosis due to maternal antibodies, the incidence of spontaneous GD in children before the age of ten is unusual, but the incidence climbs with each decade until about age 60 ( 16 - 20 ). RISK FACTORS GD is a consequence of autoimmunity against the TSH-R. The next question revolves around the trigger for this specific autoimmunity. Contemporary understanding is that a multi-factorial process allows thyroid self-reactivity to occur. While our immune system is designed to prevent self-reactivity, to some extent, exceptionally low levels of self-reactivity are normally present ( 21 ). Sex, environmental, immunologic, and genetic factors interact to augment this immune response to a degree that predisposes to clinically manifest autoimmunity ( Figure 3 ). Several such factors have been identified with some certainty, and others have been suggested. Figure 3. Risk factors for Graves’ disease. MHC: Major histocompatibility complex; HLA: Human leukocyte antigen; CTLA: Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein; RNA: Ribonucleic acid. (Created with Biorender.com). Sex The clearest association with any autoimmune condition is female sex, which carries a 10-20-fold risk compared to men ( 22 ). Although, the mechanism behind the increased incidence of autoimmune conditions in female is not fully understood, several factors leading to greater autoreactivity towards the thyroid have been proposed. Polymorphisms in the estrogen receptor genes might be at least partially responsive for the increased susceptibility of female to developing GD ( 23 ). In addition, marked fluctuations in leptin and other hormonal secretion patterns throughout the different endocrine states during the female lifespan (Including puberty, pregnancy, and menopause) have been linked with changes in the regulation of the innate and adaptive immune systems, and disbalance between pro and anti-inflammatory states, which altogether increase the risk of developing autoimmune diseases ( 22 , 24 ). The post-partum period is associated with a higher risk of developing GD. This relates to the transition from a skewed T helper 2 (Th2) cell response that suppresses the immune response
