Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


post-partum period is associated with a higher risk of developing GD. This relates to the transition from a skewed T helper 2 (Th2) cell response that suppresses the immune response and antibody production (Including TSH-R antibodies) during pregnancy, to a post-partum state in which the proinflammatory Th1 cell response returns to normal ( 25 ). Furthermore, it has been shown that fetal cells from male infants can persist in the maternal circulation for up to 20 years (fetal micro chimerism). These cells have been found in frozen thyroid tissue specimens from patients with GD and thyroid nodules, and it is hypothesized that they could modulate AITD by induction of immune response or development of a graft-versus-host immune response to the mother ( 26 ). Environmental Factors Considerable information has accumulated about factors in the environment that can induce GD. Cigarette smoking increases the risk of GD and complicates its extra thyroidal manifestations through direct cell damage, downregulation of the innate immune system, and induction of epigenetic changes ( 27 - 31 ). Conversely, moderate alcohol use and obesity seem to decrease the risk of developing the disease ( 32 ), while physical activity seems neutral in that respect ( 33 ). Other factors include: INFECTIONS AND MOLECULAR MIMICRY A persistent theory on the etiology of autoimmune diseases is that exposure to a particular peptide epitope in an environmental antigen might lead to immune reactivity to an amino acid sequence identical to that present in a human antigen such as the TSH-R, thyroperoxidase (TPO), or thyroglobulin (Tg). Through this molecular mimicry, exposure to a virus or bacteria could produce heightened immune reactivity towards these autoantigens. This sequence is believed to play a role in rheumatic fever and glomerulonephritis. There is some evidence that proteins present in a common intestinal parasite, Yersinia enterocolitica , may induce antibody reactivity to the TSH-R ( 34 - 36 ). While a clear association has not been established, a higher proportion of patients with GD have been infected with this bacteria than people without the disease ( 34 ) and exposure to the bacteria can induce TSH-R antibodies (TRAb) ( 35 ). There is also evidence that autoimmunity to the thyroid can be induced by infection with the human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1), which causes lymphocytic leukemia ( 37 ). Whether this is due to molecular mimicry of the virus, viral damage to the thyroid,
