Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


with the human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1), which causes lymphocytic leukemia ( 37 ). Whether this is due to molecular mimicry of the virus, viral damage to the thyroid, or stimulation through another mechanism such as cytokine secretion, remains uncertain. In addition, it has been suggested that Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) antigens may be involved in the development of AITD, and one study reported that up to 85% of patients with autoimmune atrophic thyroiditis have H. pylori infections ( 38 ). While molecular mimicry remains a tantalizing explanation, the factual evidence for its role in the pathogenesis of GD is minimal. THYROID INJURY AND ANTIGEN RELEASE It is accepted that certain types of injury to the thyroid are followed by the development of thyroid autoimmunity, including GD. In fact, this is one of the few proven causes of GD. The release of thyroid antigens following destruction of thyroid tissue may add a significant stimulation to a latent low level of thyroid autoimmunity, causing the development of GD. Radiation to the thyroid has been associated with a subsequent higher incidence of positive thyroid antibody tests ( 39 ), and an increased risk of GD, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and TED ( 40 , 41 ). Around 1% of patients with autonomous thyroid nodules who undergo radioactive iodide treatment or ethanol injection can subsequently develop GD ( 42 , 43 ), with a tenfold higher risk if anti-TPO antibodies are present ( 44 ). Whether viral injury, as in the case of HTLV-1 and SARS-CoV ( 45 , 46 ), plays a similar role in human AITD is uncertain. However, Covid-19 disease caused by the SARS-CoV has been associated with higher risk of developing subacute thyroiditis, GD, and TED. IMMUNE THERAPIES Administration of cytokines such as INF-α, IL-2, and GM-CSF can augment AITD, or in some cases appear to induce it de novo ( 47 - 49 ). Alemtuzumab therapy, used for depletion of circulating lymphocytes in the therapy of multiple sclerosis is followed by development of GD in a third of such treated patient within 6 months of recovery from T cell depletion ( 50 ). This and other immunosuppressive treatments may deviate the immune system from a Th1 to a Th2 type of response, reducing the number of regulatory T cells or altering the balance between T helper 17 (Th17) cells and regulatory T cells, and leading to overexpression of pro-inflammatory
