Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


type of response, reducing the number of regulatory T cells or altering the balance between T helper 17 (Th17) cells and regulatory T cells, and leading to overexpression of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-17, IL-22, IL-23R, and IL-32 that are commonly seen in patients with AIDT ( 51 - 55 ). In addition, treatment with INF-α for chronic hepatitis or INF-β for multiple sclerosis has also been suggested to cause AITD and destructive thyroiditis, especially in females (RR: 4.4) and people with pre-existing anti-TPO antibodies (RR: 3.9) ( 56 ); however, a definitive association has not been established ( 57 ). In addition, while immune check point inhibitors can commonly induce hypothyroidism and thyrotoxicosis due to destructive thyroiditis ( 58 ), in rare instances they can also induce GD ( 59 , 60 ). EXCESS IODINE Excess iodide can induce hyperthyroidism in patients with multinodular goiter ( 61 , 62 ), a phenomenon known as “Jod Basedow”. Presumably, autonomous nodules in the goiter are in a subclinical state and unable to produce an excess of thyroid hormones as their synthesis is limited by iodide supply; yet, when the iodine supply is high, the autonomous nodules produce an excess of hormone. Well studied epidemics of iodide-induced thyrotoxicosis occurred for example in Tasmania, Denmark, and India after the introduction of salt iodization and were clearly associated with multinodular goiters rather than typical GD ( 63 - 66 ). In addition, increased iodine intake can actually augment thyroid autoimmunity through other mechanisms such as heavy iodination of Tg which appears to increase immunogenicity in animal studies ( 67 ), or hypothetical induction of follicular thyroid cell injury with secondary liberation of thyroid related antigens ( 68 , 69 ). On the other hand, the addition of 2 - 6 mg per day of iodide to the intake of most patients with GD causes a dramatic, but probably temporary, reduction in hormone release, a phenomenon referred to as Plummer effect ( 70 - 73 ). Overall, whether an excess of iodine can induce true GD and autoimmunity remains unknown. STRESS The incidence of GD increased in Denmark during World War II ( 74 ), and in Serbia during the civil war in the former Yugoslavia ( 75 ). In general, studies have shown mixed results; however, meta-analysis suggests physical trauma and psychologic stress are possible environmental triggers of GD ( 76 ). Some authors indicated that
