Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


75 ). In general, studies have shown mixed results; however, meta-analysis suggests physical trauma and psychologic stress are possible environmental triggers of GD ( 76 ). Some authors indicated that patients with GD had suffered on average more stressful episodes than control subjects, but other similar studies failed to show this relationship ( 77 - 80 ). Stress induces a variety of physiologic responses including anxiety, tachycardia, and restlessness, among others, which are not unlike symptoms of GD. Its role remains enigmatic in causation of GD to this date. Theoretically, stress might cause activation of the adrenal cortex or the sympathetic nervous system which might cause stimulation of thyroid secretion, as has been shown in experimental animals ( 81 ). Other specific stressors have been reported. Aggressive weight loss programs that involve using exogenous thyroid hormone have been reported to induce GD ( 82 ). Immunologic Factors THYMIC SELECTION OF LYMPHOCYTES Lymphocytes develop from precursors present in the bone marrow that undergo progressive maturation and selection in the thymus. Lymphocytes which fail to recognize endogenous human leukocyte antigens (HLA) undergo negative selection, as do those which strongly react with endogenous epitopes presented by HLA molecules ( 83 , 84 ). In this process, more than 95% of all lymphocytes undergo apoptosis. As with other human molecules, thyroid molecules like the sodium iodine symporter (NIS), TSH-R, TPO, and Tg-RNAs are presented as immunoreactive peptides in the human thymus as part of the lymphocyte selection process ( 85 , 86 ). Pre-T lymphocytes are thus educated in the thymus to recognize thyroid-related epitopes, and to generate self-tolerance against them. Expression of these thyroid antigens in the fetal thymus is under control of the AIRE gene, and absence of this gene leads to polyglandular autoimmune syndrome type 1 whose hallmarks are adrenal insufficiency, hypoparathyroidism and muco-candidiasis. In Down’s syndrome, despite having 3 copies of the AIRE gene, expression of thyroid antigens in the thymus is reduced, and this is thought to cause the elevated incidence of autoimmunity in these patients ( 87 ). Clearly the thymic selection process is imperfect, in a developmental process designed to provide the maximum repertoire of lymphocytes, some lymphocytes which weakly recognize autologous thyroid antigens do persist in the circulation, and can be found in normal patients and those with AITD ( Table 1 ) ( 85 ). REGULATORY T CELL ABNORMALITIES Every T cell-mediated response is tempered
