Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


the circulation, and can be found in normal patients and those with AITD ( Table 1 ) ( 85 ). REGULATORY T CELL ABNORMALITIES Every T cell-mediated response is tempered by the interaction of effector and regulatory cells ( 88 ). Thus, a disproportionately low number or diminished function of regulatory T cells is, in part, responsible for the development of autoimmunity ( 89 , 90 ). Several studies have demonstrated abnormalities in T cell regulation in GD with conflicting results. Some groups have proposed that patients with GD have a lower proportion of regulatory T cells ( 91 - 95 ), while others report a normal or high number of T regulatory cells but with impaired immune suppressive function ( 91 , 96 - 100 ). In addition, Marazuela et al . reported a high proportion of defective intrathyroidal regulatory T cells in patients with autoimmune thyroiditis ( 101 ). Gangi et al. found that administration of GM-CSF induced development of regulatory T cells capable of suppressing immunity to Tg in mice ( 102 ). Molteni et al . reported that CD8 T cells can induce anergy in TSH-R specific CD4 T cell clones to prevent thyroid related auto reactivity ( 103 ) and, ultimately, Vaidya et al . reported higher numbers of naïve activated T cells and lower memory T cells in patients with TED ( 104 ). Overall, while there remains some uncertainty, decreased T regulation due to low cell counts or impaired function is involved in the development of GD. EXPRESSION OF MAJOR HISTOCOMPATIBILITY COMPLEX (MHC) CLASS II Exposure of thyroid epithelial cells to interferon, presumably secreted from infiltrating lymphocytes or other immune cells, can lead to the expression of MHC class II molecules on the thyroid cell surface ( 105 , 106 ). Expression of these molecules allows the thyroid epithelial cell to function as a weak antigen presenting cell (APC) ( 107 , 108 ). Culture of human thyroid cells from patients with GD in vitro shows that the expression of MHC class II molecules expression disappears ( 109 ), as it does when the cells are transplanted into nude mice ( 110 ). This is a compelling argument indicating that MHC class II expression on GD thyroid cells is secondary rather than primary event. Table 1. Possible Factors in the Immunological Etiology of Graves' Disease View in own window Persistence of some autoreactive
