Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


expression on GD thyroid cells is secondary rather than primary event. Table 1. Possible Factors in the Immunological Etiology of Graves' Disease View in own window Persistence of some autoreactive T cells and B cells (failure of negative selection) Genetic polymorphisms Re-exposure to antigens secondary to thyroid cell damage Reduced or dysfunctional regulatory T cells Cross-reacting epitopes on environmental and thyroid antigens Inappropriate HLA-DR expression Mutated T or B cell clones Activation of T cells by polyclonal stimuli Stimulation of the thyroid by cytokines HLA: Human leukocyte antigen; CTLA: Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein Genetic Factors The increased incidence of GD in certain families and in identical twins has for decades indicated a powerful genetic influence on disease development ( 111 - 113 ). Studies of large samples of pairs of twins suggest that the genetic factors account for 73-79% of the liability to have positive TSH-R antibodies and to develop GD, whereas environmental factors account presumably for the remainder ( 113 , 114 ). Adjusting for covariates (age, TSH and others), the estimate for genetic influence on serum anti-TPO and anti TG antibodies was also found to be between 60 – 80%. This inheritance turns out to be polygenic. Rather than inheriting one gene which, in a dominant fashion, would induce GD, individuals inherit many different genetic polymorphisms which are conducive to the development of AITD ( 115 - 117 ). HUMAN LEUKOCYTE ANTIGEN (HLA) MOLECULES HLA molecules are expressed in different isotypes. There are between 50 and 100 different HLA-DR molecules, and a much smaller number of HLA-DQ and HLA-DP molecules, all coded on chromosome 6, in the human genome ( 118 ). Of these, the HLA-DR are most abundantly expressed and most important. These molecules exist as dimers on the surface of antigen presenting cells. In the initiation of an immune response, the antigen presenting cell displays a specific epitope complexed in an HLA-DR. Recognition of this bi-molecular complex by the T cell receptor leads to stimulation of T cells. The amino acid sequences of the HLA-DR molecule determine the shape and affinity to the antigen presenting cleft ( 119 ). Thus, certain HLA-DR molecules are more efficient to present certain epitopes during the lymphocyte selection and maturation process in the thymus ( 84 ). Therefore, the inheritance of certain HLA genes, and the matching of the HLA-DR molecules with the structure of the TSH-R epitopes, or other thyroid
