Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


specifically, since it has to do with the presentation of specific antigen epitopes, whereas the CTLA-4 polymorphism appears to be a general phenomenon, allowing one population group to have augmented lymphocyte proliferation, but is not specifically related to thyroid disease. These observations also fit with the concept that development of GD is mediated by a set of genes rather than one specific gene. NON-CODING RNAs The RNA transcripts that regulate genetic transcription and protein translation, but do not encode a specific protein themselves, are denominated non-coding RNAs ( 139 ). These regulators play a key role in immune activation, cellular proliferation, and cytokine production. Thus, their abnormal expression can halt the normal immune response, leading to autoimmunity. In the case of AITD, the understanding of non-coding RNAs associated with development of disease is still limited. Several transcripts have been proposed to play a role in the development of GD but their exact mechanism of action, and their utility for clinical care are unclear ( 140 - 142 ). Ongoing and future efforts aim to clarify the role of non-coding RNAs as well as their potential use as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets ( 143 ). EXOSOMES Exosomes are cell-secreted extracellular vesicles that function as biological carriers, and contain a series of molecules (i.e., cytokines, transduction factors, nucleic acids, proteins, and lipids) involved in processes of cellular communication such as antigen presentation and immune response activation. As in other autoimmune conditions, exosomes are presumed to play a role in AITD but research on their pathophysiologic role is still in the early stages ( 144 , 145 ). Some authors have previously reported the presence of thyroid follicular cell derived exosomes containing TSH-R which are involved in the development of GD ( 146 , 147 ). In addition, exosomes from patients with GD have been found to stimulate the production of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-α ( 148 ). Furthermore, exosomes containing metalloproteinases and non-coding RNAs have been found in high proportions in patients with AITD and TED ( 149 , 150 ). OTHER FACTORS Numerous other gene polymorphisms have been reported to be associated with GD. It is highly likely that these individual variants contribute a real but small increment in the risk of developing the disease. The initial genetic studies on the TSH-R showed mixed results on a potential association between specific polymorphisms and susceptibility to GD
