Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


80% 90-95% 10-15% Anti-thyroglobulin antibodies (Anti-TgAb) ( 205 , 210 , 211 ) 30-60% 60-80% 8-11.5% In addition, patients with AITD often develop other organ-specific antibodies, and have higher risk of developing associated conditions such as Addison's disease, premature ovarian failure, chronic hepatitis, celiac disease, primary biliary cirrhosis, pernicious anemia, type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, vitiligo, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematous, systemic sclerosis, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, urticaria, alopecia, and angioedema ( 212 - 220 ). The most frequent extrathyroidal antibodies include antibodies directed to gastric parietal cells, found in 50% of patients with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis ( 221 ), to adrenal steroidogenic enzymes, ovarian steroidogenic enzymes, components of the pituitary gland ( 222 ), DNA ( 223 ), liver mitochondria GD( 224 ), and to cardiolipin ( 225 ). Further evidence of ongoing inflammation in GD is the elevation of ICAM-1, IL-6 and IL-8 cytokines seen in hyperthyroid patients ( 217 , 226 ). TSH Receptor Antibodies These antibodies can be classified into three major categories: 1. Thyroid stimulating antibodies (TSab) interact with the TSH-R and stimulate adenyl cyclase and the protein kinase A pathway, as well as the phospholipase C pathway, thereby triggering thyroid hormone synthesis and cell proliferation ( 227 - 229 ). Functionally, this is identical to the effects induced by TSH itself. When TSab reaches a certain level of function, they cause an increase in thyroid hormone synthesis and secretion, as well as growth of the gland, and cause hyperthyroidism. 2. Thyroid blocking antibodies (TBAb) interact with the TSH-R by binding to different epitopes on the receptor, and they can block the binding of TSH to the receptor without stimulating function themselves ( 230 - 233 ). 3. Thyroid neutral antibodies (TNab) bind mostly to the hinge region of the TSH-R. While these antibodies neither stimulate nor inhibit its function, they appear to be involved in signaling activity leading to apoptosis of the thyroid follicular cells ( 234 - 236 ). All these antibodies are commonly recognized by assays which detect their ability to interfere with the binding of TSH to the receptor and are identified as thyrotropin receptor antibody (TRAb), or Thyrotropin binding inhibiting immunoglobulins (TBII) ( 231 ). Probably all patients with GD have a mixture of all these three subtypes of antibodies. TRAb/TBII can be measured with enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) that measure the ability of the patient’s serum antibodies to
