Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


have a mixture of all these three subtypes of antibodies. TRAb/TBII can be measured with enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) that measure the ability of the patient’s serum antibodies to inhibit binding of labeled TSH-R ligands (human monoclonal thyroid antibodies) to the TSH-R ( 209 ). In addition, TSab can be identified by a bioassay which quantifies the ability of the antibodies to stimulate the adenyl cyclase function of the TSH-R. Either thyroid cells or thyroid cell membranes can be used, and the cyclic AMP produced by this stimulation is quantitated by a luciferase-based assay ( 209 , 227 ). A cyclic AMP responsive luciferase construct introduced into Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, allows a sensitive luminescent assay for thyroid stimulating antibodies with the capability of high throughput suitable for use in general laboratories ( 228 ). The TSH-R is initially formed as a single polypeptide inserted into the thyroid cell membrane. After processing, it becomes a two-peptide structure, one extracellular and one transmembrane, with the chains held together by disulfide bonds. Subsequently, reduction of the disulfide bonds by a disulfide isomerase may separate the two molecules and lead to shedding of the “alpha” subunit, which can be augmented by TSH stimulation of thyroid cells ( 237 ). The amino-terminal ectodomain of the human TSH-R has been expressed on the surface of CHO cells as a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored molecule. This material can be released from the cells and is biologically active by binding immunoglobulins from serum of patients with GD, and displaying saturable binding of TSH ( 8 ), indicating that all of the "immunologic information" related to production of antibodies resides in the extracellular portion of TSH-R. The initial bioassay developed by Adams et al. ( 5 ), and then by McKenzie ( 238 ), could quantitate TSAb (or LATS as it was then known) in up to 60% of patients with active GD. Newer assays measuring cyclic-AMP formation can detect TSab in over 99% of patients with GD and thyrotoxicosis ( 239 ), with a sensitivity of 97% to identify patients with GD, and 93% for patients with TED ( 240 ). The presence of TSab is characteristic of active GD, and if the thyroid can respond (e.g., has not been ablated with RAI), hyperthyroidism ensues. If untreated, the thyroid may be destroyed by the ongoing immune process, or blocking antibodies can develop, and the patient may become hypothyroid.
