Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


not been ablated with RAI), hyperthyroidism ensues. If untreated, the thyroid may be destroyed by the ongoing immune process, or blocking antibodies can develop, and the patient may become hypothyroid. In addition, the coexistence of TSab and TBab can cause a pull-push effect leading to shifting between hypo- and hyperthyroidism ( 241 , 242 ). During antithyroid therapy, TSab tends to decline. If their titer becomes undetectable there is a high likelihood of disease remission. However, if present in significant concentration, remission is very unlikely, explaining the failure of safely discontinuing antithyroid drug therapy (ATD) in more than 50% of patients after 12-18 months of treatment ( 243 , 244 ). Similarly, TSab tends to decline after thyroidectomy ( 245 ). After radioactive iodide therapy, TSab titer increases for up to a year, probably because of the release of thyroidal antigens ( 246 - 248 ). Antibody levels gradually decrease during the subsequent years, reaching pretherapy values around the third year. During ATD, it is speculated that some immune modulation might occur, and the predominant TSab are replaced by TNab or Tbab. The specific epitopes to which the TSab bind are in the amino terminal portion of the extracellular domain of the TSR-R and have been better characterized ( 249 , 250 ). This has led to therapeutic efforts to induce tolerance to these epitopes ( 251 , 252 ). The blocking antibodies tend to bind to sequences at the carboxy terminal portion of the receptor, closer to the plasma membrane, probably preventing the activation of the receptor through inhibition of signal-transmission required conformational changes ( 253 ). Details of these actions are revealed by cryo-electron microscopy analysis of the full-length TSH-R structure complexed with the inhibitory antibody K1-70™. This approach revealed key interactions between the receptor's transmembrane and extracellular domains, suggesting that K1-70™ inhibits TSHR by binding without activating it, while the stimulatory autoantibody M22™ likely induces activation through conformational changes in the hinge region ( 254 ). The Role of Cellular Immunity Lymphocytes of patients with GD are reactive to the TSH-R ( Figure 4 ), TPO, and synthetic TPO-derived peptides ( 190 , 199 , 200 , 255 ). The interaction between antigen presenting cells (APCs) and T cells triggers a multimodal cellular and humoral response. T helper 1 (Th1) cell derived cytokines such as interferon gamma (INF-γ), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), interleukin (IL) 1β, IL-6,
