Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


T cells triggers a multimodal cellular and humoral response. T helper 1 (Th1) cell derived cytokines such as interferon gamma (INF-γ), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), interleukin (IL) 1β, IL-6, IL-9, IL-10, and IL-11 play a dominant role in the early phase of AITD ( 256 ). Later, there is a predominant T helper 2 (Th2) cell response with its derived IL-4, IL-10, IL-17, and IL-23 ( 257 - 260 ). TSH-R peptides that have aspartic or glutamic acid in the fourth position of their binding motif are particularly susceptible at inducing immune responses in GD and animal T cells ( 190 , 261 ). Immunoreactivity towards the TSH-R has been reported in samples of orbital fat and preadipocytes, and differentiation of preadipocytes into adipocytes with high TSH-R reactivity has been induced by TSH stimulation ( 262 - 264 ). In addition, immunity to the TSH-R plays a direct role in the development of TED, through the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines by T cells. Figure 4. The role of cellular immunity. Schematic representation of TSH-R endocytosis by antigen presenting cells (APC), subsequent proteolysis and presentation to T cells, and stimulation of thyroid stimulating antibody production by B cells. (Created with Biorender.com). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Thyroid Function In GD, the thyroid gland is functioning at an accelerated rate. Serum TSab stimulate the TSH-R, as evidenced by the higher activity of the cell membrane adenyl cyclase activity in the thyroid tissue of patients with GD, compared to normal thyroids ( 265 ). The plasma iodine clearance, a reflection of the thyroid iodine uptake, is increased from the normal rate of 10-20 ml/min to 40-2000 ml/minute. For this reason, the percentage of a tracer dose of radioactive iodine (RAI, I 123 ) found in the thyroid gland at 12 hours is elevated and distributed in a homogeneous fashion ( 266 ). Thyroid hormones, Tg, and iodotyrosine - normally secreted in minute amounts - are released into the blood rapidly and at increased rates ( 73 , 267 , 268 ). Furthermore, the rate of turnover of plasma thyroid hormones is also increased. Accelerated degradation is probably secondary to hypermetabolism and is not a primary event ( 269 ), although it has been reported that accelerated T4 turnover can persist after treatment of thyrotoxicosis ( 270 ). Finally, after anti-thyroid drugs (ATD) the thyroid hormones tend to fall and that response, along with the required dose
