Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


T4 turnover can persist after treatment of thyrotoxicosis ( 270 ). Finally, after anti-thyroid drugs (ATD) the thyroid hormones tend to fall and that response, along with the required dose of ATD drug required to achieve that response, can be used as predictors of GD remission ( 271 ). An interesting historical observation regarding thyroid function during GD is that the uptake of RAI by the thyroid is not suppressed by the administration of exogenous T4 or T3 ( 272 , 273 ), even if large amounts of hormone were given (old studies performed before the autoimmune basis for GD was fully understood). Non-suppressibility is caused by stimulation of the thyroid by TSab, and independence of feedback control via TSH. Iodine Effect on the Thyrotoxic Gland Iodine affects the metabolism of the diffusely hyperplastic thyrotoxic gland in a way radically different from its action on the normal gland. Years ago, Plummer demonstrated that GD can be temporarily or permanently controlled by the administration of iodide ( 70 ). Administration of large doses of iodine to laboratory animals causes a temporary inhibition of iodine organification, the Wolff-Chaikoff effect ( 274 ). The same phenomenon occurs in humans, and thyrotoxic patients are especially sensitive to this effect. The thyroid uptake of I 131 is acutely depressed in thyrotoxic patients by administration of 2 mg potassium iodine, whereas more than 5 mg is needed to depress uptake in normal subjects. Concentrations of serum iodine above 5 µg/dl block iodine uptake and binding in the thyrotoxic gland ( 70 , 71 , 73 , 272 , 275 ). The Wolff-Chaikoff effect is transient. With continuous iodine administration, I 131 uptake and binding recommences. The adaptation to excess iodine in animals involves a reduction of iodine transport into the thyroid which lowers intrathyroidal iodine content and escape from the Wolff-Chaikoff block. This adaptation occurs independently of TSH action. The biochemical mechanism of the Wolff-Chaikoff effect has not been fully elucidated, but it is partially mediated by the downregulation of the sodium-iodide symporter (NIS) ( 276 ). Iodine does not prevent TSH or TSab from binding to the TSH-R but inhibits both the TSH-stimulated adenyl cyclase production of cAMP and its derived actions. In addition, iodine also causes a marked reduction in the release of previously formed hormones from the thyrotoxic gland but does not completely prevent further hormone synthesis. This phenomenon has been repeatedly observed
