Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


also causes a marked reduction in the release of previously formed hormones from the thyrotoxic gland but does not completely prevent further hormone synthesis. This phenomenon has been repeatedly observed and helps explain the beneficial therapeutic effect of iodide in GD ( 73 ). Ochi et al. demonstrated that chronic administration of iodine in GD blocks the stimulating effect on hormone release from both TSH and TSab ( 277 ). The block of hormone release that occurs in the thyroid of GD can be observed, although not uniformly, in the normal gland and in the normal gland made hyperactive by repeated administration of exogenous TSH. While early laboratory studies on the effect of iodine on the thyroid gland suggested that methimazole can inhibit somewhat the Wolff-Chaikoff effect ( 278 - 280 ), more recent clinical data indicates their ultimate impact on systemic thyroid hormone levels to be additive ( 281 , 282 ). Clinical practice therefore favors this combination for treatment of severe cases of hyperthyroidism ( 278 - 280 ). Extrathyroidal Processes The pathogenesis of extrathyroidal complications of GD such as TED and dermopathy is described in detail in another chapter. Recent evidence demonstrates that stimulation of the TSab on the TSH-R in the orbital fibroblasts can lead to a crosstalk of this receptor with the insulin growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) which stimulates hyaluronan accumulation in the orbital muscles and transformation of orbital fibroblasts into adipocytes ( 283 , 284 ). This mechanism is believed to play a key role in the pathogenesis of TED and is the basis for emergent therapeutic alternatives in patients with TED and, maybe, dermopathy. Antibodies binding to and directly stimulating the IGF-1R have also been proposed to play a role in this process. However, IGF-1R antibodies exist in sera from about 10% of normal subjects, and in a similar percentage of GD patients, and are stable over time, strongly suggesting they have no unique role in GD ( 285 ). PATHOLOGY The ophthalmic and dermatologic changes seen in TED and dermopathy are described in the chapter on the Complications of GD. The thyroid gland changes seen in GD and changes in extrathyroidal organs that can be seen with any case of thyrotoxicosis are described below. Thyroid Gland The essential lesion of GD is parenchymatous hypertrophy and hyperplasia ( Figure 5 ). The central features are increased height of the epithelium from cuboidal
