Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


are described below. Thyroid Gland The essential lesion of GD is parenchymatous hypertrophy and hyperplasia ( Figure 5 ). The central features are increased height of the epithelium from cuboidal to columnar, and varying sizes and shapes of the follicles with reduced colloid content ( 286 , 287 ). Papillary infoldings, cytologic evidence of increased activity, hypertrophy of the Golgi apparatus, increased number of mitochondria, and increased vacuolization of colloid are also seen. In addition, between the follicles, there is a large array of capillaries, together with a characteristic lymphocyte and plasma cell infiltrate. This infiltrate may be mild and diffuse throughout the gland, but more typically occurs as aggregates of mononuclear cells and even lymphoid germinal centers, referred to as focal thyroiditis. Occasionally the histologic pattern completely overlaps that of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. All pathological changes tend to regress when euthyroidism is achieved. Figure 5. Histology of a thyroid gland of a patient with Graves’ disease. Columnar epithelium, vacuolization of colloid, and significant lymphocytic infiltrate are present in the setting of diffuse parenchymal hypertrophy. Extrathyroidal Changes MUSCLE Patients with Graves’s disease can have diffuse degenerative atrophy, fatty infiltration, loss of striation, vacuolization, and proliferation or degeneration of nuclei in striated muscles ( 288 - 290 ). Skeletal muscles can also experience interstitial myositis characterized by plasma cells, tissue macrophages, and atrophy of fibers ( 291 ). This partly explains the sense of persistent weakness that patients describe after the normalization of thyroid hormone levels. While cardiac and smooth muscles tend to be spared in most patients, myocardial degenerative lesions have been reported in thyrotoxicosis, with foci of cell necrosis, mononuclear infiltrates, and mucopolysaccharide deposits similar to those described in extraocular and skeletal muscles ( 290 ). The extraocular muscle changes are specific for TED, whereas the remainder of the abnormalities may reflect the action of excess hormone. PITUITARY The anterior pituitary demonstrates a dramatic decrease in identifiable thyrotropin containing cells, based on data from patients who died from thyroid storm ( 292 , 293 ). This is entirely reversed in patients who achieve euthyroidism after treatment. LIVER Initial studies based on autopsies of patients with GD suggested focal and even diffuse liver cell necrosis, atrophy, and cirrhosis ( 269 ). In more contemporary series of liver biopsy specimens obtained from thyrotoxic persons, the deviations from normal were minimal ( 294 , 295 ). Moderate decrease in glycogen content and increase
