Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


In more contemporary series of liver biopsy specimens obtained from thyrotoxic persons, the deviations from normal were minimal ( 294 , 295 ). Moderate decrease in glycogen content and increase in fat and round cell infiltrates were noted. The differences among these studies could be explained by a lesser severity and duration of the disease in more recent series with patients diagnosed earlier and treated effectively, as the disease has now an extremely low mortality rate ( 296 ). Recent studies have documented that thyroid hormone analogs specific for the thyroid hormone receptor b such as resmetirom may be a novel therapeutic approach for the therapy of metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) ( 297 ). BONE Prolonged hyperthyroidism is known to produce the histologic picture of osteoporosis ( 298 ), but osteitis fibrosa also occurs ( 299 ). Histomorphometry studies show unmistakable evidence of excess bone formation and resorption. NATURAL COURSE OF GD AND CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF THYROTOXICOSIS In the classic presentation, the most common onset is the simultaneous and gradual development, over a period of weeks or months, of thyrotoxicosis-related signs and symptoms, goiter, and exophthalmos. However, GD displays an array of possible clinical patterns. It is possible for GD to develop in a patient with preceding nontoxic multinodular goiter, toxic multinodular goiter (Marine-Lenhart syndrome), to experience thyrotoxicosis without TED, or to have TED preceding the development of thyrotoxicosis. Due to the coexistence of TSab and TBAb some patients can first develop hypothyroidism and later thyrotoxicosis, or vice versa ( 232 ). In addition, during pregnancy GD tends to be partially suppressed, only to have a rapid recurrence in the post-partum period ( 300 ). Sometimes, human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) induced thyrotoxicosis, seen in the first part of pregnancy, can also coexist with GD and mask its presentation ( 301 ). Before the general availability of current therapies, hyperthyroidism tended to evolve through periods of exacerbation and remission. In the mild forms, the active disease was self-limited to one year or more, and the patients returned spontaneously to a euthyroid state. In untreated moderate to severe forms, mortality could be observed in 11% of patients ( 302 , 303 ). Mortality was most frequently attributed to cardiovascular complications (such as myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, or heart failure), or infections, and occurred within the first 4 years after diagnosis. Fortunately, death due to hyperthyroidism is now rare with an
