Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


complications (such as myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, or heart failure), or infections, and occurred within the first 4 years after diagnosis. Fortunately, death due to hyperthyroidism is now rare with an excess mortality of 1.2% compared to controls ( 296 ). Nowadays, after a period of anti-thyroid drug therapy (ATD) therapy there is re-establishment of normal thyroid homeostasis and over time a sizable proportion of patients can achieve disease remission, allowing them to discontinue ATD and remain euthyroid off therapy. The most common presenting symptoms are weight loss, weakness, dyspnea, palpitations, increased thirst or appetite, diarrhea, irritability, profuse diaphoresis, heat intolerance and increased tolerance to cold, or tremor. Occasionally, exophthalmos or diplopia is the index symptom, but goiter may antedate all other manifestations. The nutritional state varies greatly. In the past, patients were severely emaciated, but these days, on average, the weight loss is 5 - 20 lbs. (2.3 – 9 kg). Facial expressions of flushing, fright, or extreme anxiousness are common. Notably, in elderly patients the disease can manifest as apathetic thyrotoxicosis, in which there is absence of hyperkinetic neuromuscular symptoms, and predominance of cardiac (e.g. arrhythmia), psychiatric (e.g. apathy, depression) and nutritional (e.g.., weight loss) symptoms ( 304 ). In patients with GD, the ocular changes of TED, lymphoid hyperplasia, localized abnormalities of skin and connective tissue (e.g., dermopathy and acropachy) and the goiter itself are direct results of the autoimmune processes of GD. The remainder of the changes are entirely attributable to an excess of thyroid hormone. The natural course and manifestations of thyroid storm, TED, and dermopathy are primarily discussed in the chapter on Complications of GD. The clinical manifestations of thyrotoxicosis are described below. Thyroid The diffuse toxic goiter is usually more or less symmetric. The size is related, but not closely, to the severity of the disease. It varies from the barely palpable normal (10- 15 g) to a three-to-six times enlargement (45-100 g) or, rarely, even more. The gland might not be palpable in 1% of cases, either because the thyroid is smaller than usual at baseline or because it is beneath the manubrium. The thyroid may be smooth, lobulated, or rarely nodular. In thyrotoxicosis associated with nodular goiters, the hyperfunctioning tissue may reside between the nodules ( 305 ). Usually, the consistency is firm but elastic, or very firm if iodide has been given. The borders are easily demarcated by palpation. Thrills and
