Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


between the nodules ( 305 ). Usually, the consistency is firm but elastic, or very firm if iodide has been given. The borders are easily demarcated by palpation. Thrills and bruits, usually denote the hypervascularity associated with increased function. Bruits may be continuous or systolic and are usually audible over the entire thyroid. Local pressure symptoms, including dysphagia and the sensation of a lump in the neck, are produced by the enlarged goiter. Vocal cord palsy is only rarely seen in GD ( 306 ). In addition, the supraclavicular lymph nodes could become enlarged and, rarely, tender ( 307 ). Most thyroid related manifestations tend to regress or disappear with restoration of euthyroidism. Skin Cutaneous manifestations are nearly always present when vasomotor overactivity is significant. Heat intolerance and profuse diaphoresis occur under circumstances that would provoke no response in normal people. On palpation, hands are usually erythematous, hot, and moist (hyperhidrosis). There may be continuous erythema of the face and neck, with superimposed transient blushing after palpation of the thyroid. Occasionally diffuse pruritus or urticaria occur ( 308 ). Patchy vitiligo is an associated manifestation of autoimmunity directed toward melanocytes that can be found in 7% of patients with GD. Fingernails can experience onycholysis characterized by ragged appearance, thinning and posterior erosion of the hyponychium. The free margin of the nail leaves the nail bed, producing a concave or wavy margin at the line of contact. Temporary thinning of the hair is common, but alopecia is rare. Hair loss can occur due to marked changes in metabolism throughout the course of the disease. Myxedema can be seen in 0.5-4.3% of patients with GD, and 13% of patients with TED ( 309 , 310 ). The clinical characteristics of thyroid dermopathy are described in the chapter on Complications of GD. Nervous System Neural and mental findings are diverse. Nervousness, irritability, anxiety, and restlessness are common ( Table 3 ) ( 311 ). The behavioral reactions to all sorts of stimuli are typically exaggerated. When asked to sit up, the patient might jump into an upright position. They may simply wish to cooperate but appear to overdo it. Often emotional instability is combined with this pattern, to the point of a notable change in personality. In some patients, the emotional pattern is that of mania or euphoria. In others, hyperactivity produces a state of exhaustion, and profound fatigue or asthenia. The mind
