Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


change in personality. In some patients, the emotional pattern is that of mania or euphoria. In others, hyperactivity produces a state of exhaustion, and profound fatigue or asthenia. The mind is often highly active, and the patient is troubled with insomnia. Rarely, patients develop visual or auditory hallucinations or a frank psychosis. The latter is probably the result on an exacerbation of a baseline psychiatric condition rather than a de novo process ( 312 ). Furthermore, impairment of intellectual function has been found in patients with untreated hyperthyroidism. A recent study has documented that in patients over 65 years, a low TSH level from either endogenous or exogenous thyrotoxicosis is associated with higher risk of incident cognitive disorders ( 313 ). A fine, rapid tremor of the outstretched fingers is classically found, and a generalized tremulousness, also involving the tongue, may be evident. The speed of muscle contraction and relaxation is increased, tendon reflexes tend to be brisk, and the reflex relaxation time is shortened ( 314 ). The tremor of Parkinsonism is intensified during thyrotoxicosis, and manifestations of cerebellar disease or pyramidal tract lesions can be seen ( 315 , 316 ). Muscle fibrillations are not a usual part of the syndrome, but they may occur in chronic thyrotoxic myopathy. Polyneuropathy has also been reported ( 317 ). Rarely, patients manifest disorientation, aphasia, grimacing, choreoathetoid movements, symptoms suggestive of encephalitis, episodes of hemiparesis or bulbar paralysis ( 318 ). These symptoms clear up completely after restoration of an euthyroid state. Other possible, although rare, severe neurologic manifestation consist of the new onset, exacerbation, or refractoriness of seizure disorders ( 319 ). Electroencephalography reveals increased fast wave activity, and occasionally bursts of tall spike waves. In addition, several reports describe a severe, steroid-responsive encephalopathy in some patients with GD ( 320 ). Table 3. Neurologic Manifestations in Graves' Disease View in own window Common: Nervousness Irritability Restlessness Anxiety Emotional lability including hypomania or euphoria, and fatigue or asthenia). Insomnia Tremors Brisk tendon reflexes with short relaxation time Uncommon: Visual or auditory hallucinations Psychosis Impairment of intellectual function Disorientation Aphasia Choreoathetoid movements Hemiparesis or bulbar paralysis Seizures Encephalopathy Neuropathy Muscular System The muscular symptoms vary from mild myasthenia to profound muscular weakness and atrophy, especially of the proximal muscle groups. Wasting of the temporals and interossei used to be noted in a considerable number of patients while a few had generalized
