Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


weakness and atrophy, especially of the proximal muscle groups. Wasting of the temporals and interossei used to be noted in a considerable number of patients while a few had generalized muscle wasting in the decades prior to current diagnostic and therapeutic abilities. Occasionally the myopathy may shade into the picture of polymyositis. Muscle cell necrosis and lymphocyte infiltration may be visible histologically, but usually are not found even when the symptoms of weakness are severe ( 321 , 322 ). The electromyogram is normal in most instances but may occasionally resemble that of muscular dystrophy ( 323 ). Work efficiency, measured in terms of the calories of heat produced while performing a given amount of work, has been reported to be either normal or decreased ( 324 , 325 ). The muscles have decreased ability to incorporate creatine from the blood ( 326 , 327 ). Creatinine excretion is initially increased by the general catabolism of hyperthyroidism, but as muscle mass diminishes, creatinine excretion in the urine decreases. Myasthenia gravis may simulate thyrotoxicosis, and vice versa ( 328 ). The close relationship between these two diseases is apparent in the observation that thyrotoxicosis occurs in 3% of patients with myasthenia gravis. The pathogenic anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies that occur in myasthenia gravis are clearly comparable to the TSH-R antibodies found in GD. Periodic paralysis is precipitated and worsened by thyrotoxicosis ( 329 ). It has been more commonly reported in Southeast Asian males who have a higher frequency of certain genetic susceptibilities associated with higher risk of thyrotoxic periodic paralysis ( 330 - 333 ). Paralysis is usually associated with hypokalemia. Inactivating mutations in the inwardly rectifying potassium channel 2.6 encoded by the KCNJ18 gene (in about 30%) have, among other candidates, been associated with susceptibility for developing thyrotoxic periodic paralysis ( 334 , 335 ). Beta adrenergic stimulation mediated by thyrotoxicosis augments sodium-potassium ATPase activity in the skeletal muscle leading to increased potassium uptake into the cells ( 336 ). The episodes of paralysis tend to be infrequent and sporadic, but most commonly occur after a meal, following exercise, or during sleep, and can be induced by administration of glucose and insulin. Episodes last from minutes to hours, usually involving peripheral muscles, but can cause paralysis of the diaphragm and affect the heart. Serious episodes can be associated with extensive muscle cell damage and necrosis, and electrocardiographic (EKG) abnormalities associated
