Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


peripheral muscles, but can cause paralysis of the diaphragm and affect the heart. Serious episodes can be associated with extensive muscle cell damage and necrosis, and electrocardiographic (EKG) abnormalities associated with hypokalemia, such as ST and T wave changes, premature ventricular complexes (PVCs), first degree heart block, prolonged QT intervals, and even ventricular fibrillation ( 337 ). Pulmonary System Except for dyspnea on exertion, symptoms deriving from the lungs are not prominent. Nevertheless, pulmonary function tests can show some reduction in vital capacity, expiratory reserve volume, pulmonary compliance, and airway resistance ( 338 , 339 ). Minute volume response to exercise is excessive for the amount of oxygen consumed ( 340 ). Cardiovascular System The first and most common manifestations deriving from the cardiovascular system are palpitations and tachycardia ( 341 , 342 ). The pulse on palpation is rapid and bounding. When present, it can be effectively controlled with beta- adrenergic blockers ( 343 , 344 ). PVCs, paroxysmal atrial tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, and shorter P wave duration occur in 6-12% of patients ( 345 - 347 ). When present, atrial fibrillation should be treated with anticoagulation to prevent risk of thromboembolic complications. The systolic blood pressure is frequently elevated. The diastolic blood pressure is characteristically decreased, making the pulse pressure elevated to between 50-80 mm Hg ( 348 ). A systolic murmur can sometimes be heard over the precordium due to development of mitral valve prolapse following papillary muscle dysfunction during thyrotoxicosis ( 349 ). However, mitral valve insufficiency is usually not clinically relevant and can revert to normal with treatment of thyrotoxicosis. In thyrotoxicosis, the heart rate, stroke volume, left ventricular mass index, and cardiac output are all increased. The pre-ejection period is shortened, and the left ventricular ejection time remains relatively normal. The interval from initiation of the QRS complex to arrival of the arterial pulse in the brachial artery is reduced ( 350 ). Circulation time is decreased. There is dilatation of superficial capillaries and decline in systemic vascular resistance ( 351 ). Coronary blood flow and myocardial oxygen consumption in each stroke are increased. Circulating plasma volume is increased ( 352 ). Long-term mild excess of thyroid hormone causes impaired cardiac reserve and exercise capacity ( 353 ). Cardiac enlargement and heart failure may occur with or without prior heart disease ( 354 ). These effects tend to normalize when euthyroidism is restored (
