Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


capacity ( 353 ). Cardiac enlargement and heart failure may occur with or without prior heart disease ( 354 ). These effects tend to normalize when euthyroidism is restored ( 355 ). Patients with coronary artery disease often develop angina during thyrotoxicosis. However, angina could also develop de novo in patients with normal coronary arteries, especially young females. This condition has been ascribed to an imbalance between increased cardiac work and blood supply, even with a patent vessel ( 356 ). Severe coronary vasospasm has been observed during angiography in patients with GD ( 357 ). Myocardial damage can occur in thyrotoxic patients with congestive heart failure ( 358 ), even when coronary vessels are normal at baseline ( 359 ). It has been suggested that the changes in the cardiovascular system are secondary to increased demand for metabolites and to increased heat production. Dilatation of superficial capillaries for the dissipation of heat does cause increased blood flow and cardiac output ( 360 ). However, the direct action of thyroid hormone on the heart is also increased, since the sinus node has higher intrinsic activity, the isolated thyrotoxic heart beats faster than normal, and isolated papillary muscle from a thyrotoxic heart has a shortened contraction time ( 361 - 363 ). Historically, the cardiovascular effects of triiodothyronine have primarily been attributed to its modulatory influence on nuclear adrenergic receptor genes, among others ( 364 , 365 ). However, more recent evidence has demonstrated a significant physiological role for the non-genomic effects of thyroid hormone, particularly in energy homeostasis ( 366 - 368 ). Cardiac muscle contractility is enhanced by a reduction in alpha-adrenergic and cholinergic receptors within the heart. This effect is coupled with an increase in beta-adrenergic receptors, heightened adenosine transport, and enhanced phosphorylation within myocardial cells. Additionally, there is an augmentation in cardiac Na+-K+ activated membrane ATPase activity, as well as an elevation in sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca++-activated ATPase activity. Finally, the increased synthesis of alpha-myosin heavy chains with increased ATPase activity also contributes to this heightened contractility ( 363 , 369 - 371 ). Fatourechi and Edwards used myocardial biopsy to investigate the presence of an autoimmune process in eleven cases of GD with low output cardiac dysfunction. Two patients had lymphocytic infiltrates suggestive of an autoimmune process, whereas the others did not, indicating that myocardial autoimmunity may occur but would not be the usual cause of cardiac
