Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


Two patients had lymphocytic infiltrates suggestive of an autoimmune process, whereas the others did not, indicating that myocardial autoimmunity may occur but would not be the usual cause of cardiac dysfunction in thyrotoxicosis ( 372 ). Table 4. Cardiovascular Manifestations in Graves' Disease View in own window Common: Palpitations Tachycardia Paroxysmal atrial tachycardia Atrial fibrillation Increased stroke volume and cardiac output. Increased coronary blood flow and myocardial oxygen consumption Decreased exercise capacity Uncommon: Impaired cardiac reserve Heart failure Myocardial infarction Hematologic and Lymphatic Systems In most patients the hemoglobin and hematocrit are in the normal or low-normal range ( 373 ). The glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity of red cells is increased in thyrotoxicosis ( 374 ), while blood volume and the red cell mass are also increased in some patients. In the past, severe thyrotoxicosis used to be associated with normocytic anemia with hemoglobin concentrations as low as 8 g/dl, likely related to iron deficiency and malnutrition ( 375 , 376 ). However, the presence of anemia in a thyrotoxic patient these days requires a search for an additional explanation, other than thyrotoxicosis. The reticuloendothelial and lymphocytic systems undergo hyperplasia. There may be generalized lymphadenopathy, and the thymus may be enlarged ( 377 ). The thymus enlargement should be considered when mediastinal abnormalities are noted on chest imaging; thymus enlargement resolves with resolution of thyrotoxicosis and that should inform the decision about possible biopsy ( 378 ). Relative lymphocytosis and neutropenia with a normal or slightly low total white cell count, constitute the characteristic blood findings of GD ( 379 ). A relative and an absolute increase in the number of monocytes has also been reported ( 380 ). Significant pancytopenia with leukocyte counts under 3x10 9 /l and neutrophiles under 2x10 9 /l rarely occur, and if unrelated to drug therapy, tend to recover with restoration of euthyroidism ( 381 ). GD is often associated with mild thrombocytopenia, and occasionally with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ( 382 ). This co-occurrence is thought to reflect the autoimmune pathogenesis of both diseases. Fourteen percent of patients with immune thrombocytopenic purpura are reported to have coincident GD. Mild thrombocytopenia may disappear spontaneously or with treatment of hyperthyroidism, or if severe, may respond to glucocorticoid therapy ( 383 ). Bone marrow examination may show normal or increased megakaryocytes. In addition, platelet life span can be shortened due to a more rapid clearing by the activated
