Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


therapy ( 383 ). Bone marrow examination may show normal or increased megakaryocytes. In addition, platelet life span can be shortened due to a more rapid clearing by the activated reticulo-endothelial system. Usually, thyrotoxicosis results in a mild hypercoagulable state. Although rare, cerebral venous thrombosis has been reported in association with thyrotoxicosis, suggesting that occasionally the propensity for coagulation can lead to profound consequences ( 384 ). Mild prolongation of the prothrombin time and elevation of several coagulation factors (Factors VIII, XIII, IX, XI, Von Willebrand, fibrinogen, and plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, among others) are often seen with thyrotoxicosis, and return to normal with treatment. In addition, recent studies emphasize the role of thyroid hormones in promoting coagulation through non-genomic mechanisms involving platelet activation with subsequent endothelial interactions ( 385 ). Gastrointestinal System The appetite and the gastrointestinal track absorption are characteristically increased to try to offset nutritional requirements from the increase in catabolism seen in patients with thyrotoxicosis. Despite this, weight loss is usually predominant. In severe thyrotoxicosis, nausea, emesis, and abdominal pain can be present while intestinal transit time is decreased, and occasionally diarrhea occurs ( 386 ). Steatorrhea can be seen if fat intake is excessive. Achlorhydria can be as prevalent as 40% ( 387 , 388 ). Gastric enzymes production is decreased, and a mild gastritis can be present ( 389 ). Fasting serum gastrin levels, and their responses to arginine, are increased ( 390 ). Around 55% of patients with thyrotoxicosis can experience at least one abnormality in their liver blood tests. Alkaline phosphatase elevation is the most common, but other common abnormalities include hypoalbuminemia, mild prothrombin time elevation, elevated aminotransferases, hyperbilirubinemia, and elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) ( 391 ). Mild to severe liver disease may be found, and the liver is frequently palpable regardless of the coexistence of heart failure ( 392 ). Jaundice is possible but often seen when there is significant cholestasis from severe thyrotoxicosis ( 393 , 394 ). The cause of hepatic disease has been thought to be multifactorial in the setting of congestive hepatopathy from heart failure, malnutrition, previous or concomitant liver disease (i.e., infectious or autoimmune disease), and drug related liver injury, and possible liver ischemia from a mismatch between oxygen consumption and oxygen delivery to the liver ( 395 - 399 ). All gastrointestinal manifestations tend to improve with restauration of the euthyroid state. Renal System Polyuria
