Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


mismatch between oxygen consumption and oxygen delivery to the liver ( 395 - 399 ). All gastrointestinal manifestations tend to improve with restauration of the euthyroid state. Renal System Polyuria and occasionally glucosuria are seen in uncomplicated thyrotoxicosis. Polyuria does not indicate insensitivity to vasopressin, for the kidney responds normally to vasopressin with an increase in concentration of urine ( 400 ). Glucosuria may reflect accelerated absorption of sugar from the intestine and glucose intolerance. The glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow are on average increased, probably secondary to increased cardiac output and a direct effect of thyroid hormone on renal function ( 401 ). Hyperuricemia with hypercalcemia can be seen in severe thyrotoxicosis, but it rarely injures the kidneys. In addition, occasionally hyposthenuria and uremia occur ( 402 , 403 ). Female Reproductive System Menstruation is characteristically decreased in volume, and rarely amenorrhea with a proliferative endometrium can happen. The menstrual cycle may be either shortened or prolonged. The relative importance of a primary action of excess thyroid hormone on the gonadotroph function is unclear. However, an alteration in pituitary LH production and subsequent ovulation is suggested ( 404 ). Hyperprolactinemia is more common in patients with hyperthyroidism than in healthy controls ( 405 ). Premature ovarian failure can occur in association with GD in patients with polyglandular autoimmune syndrome type 3 ( 222 ). Fertility is decreased, but pregnancy can develop. The incidence of miscarriage, premature delivery, pre-eclampsia, and gestational heart failure are increased by maternal thyrotoxicosis ( 406 - 408 ). Reduced fertility and increased miscarriage rates are associated with autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) and positive antibodies. High maternal thyroid hormone levels and/or high titer of TSab (by crossing the placenta in the 3 rd trimester) can lead to fetal thyrotoxicosis with suppressed fetal TSH, lower fetal weight, and fetal death ( 409 ). However, pregnancy often ameliorates the biochemistry and the symptoms of thyrotoxicosis due to GD. Unfortunately, relapse is prone to occur in the 3-4 months following delivery. Male Reproductive System Peripheral conversion of testosterone and androstenedione to estrone and estradiol is increased in both sexes during hyperthyroidism ( 293 , 410 ). Thus, men can have elevated circulating levels of free estradiol ( 411 , 412 ), and some might experience gynecomastia with ductal elongation and epithelial hyperplasia ( 413 , 414 ). In addition, the slightly elevated LH in men with gynecomastia
