Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


411 , 412 ), and some might experience gynecomastia with ductal elongation and epithelial hyperplasia ( 413 , 414 ). In addition, the slightly elevated LH in men with gynecomastia suggests hypothalamic insensitivity to feedback control and some peripheral unresponsiveness to LH ( 411 ). Both Leydig cell and spermatogenic abnormalities may be present. Previous small series have described a 71% rate of loss of libido, 56% rate of erectile dysfunction, and 80% rate of low sperm counts (<40 millions) in thyrotoxic men ( 415 , 416 ). In these patients, the total testosterone level was elevated, but because the sex hormone binding globulin level was also high, the free testosterone level was reduced and the response to hCG was blunted. The abnormalities normalize when the patients become euthyroid ( 417 ). In addition, RAI therapy can cause transient reductions in both sperm count and motility but do not seem to cause permanent effects with ordinary treatment doses (under 14 mCi, equivalent to around 500 MBq) ( 417 ). Adrenal Function There are no obvious clinical signs or symptoms of altered adrenal cortical function in thyrotoxicosis, but distinct biochemical changes have been detected. In thyrotoxicosis the adrenal cortex is often hyperplastic and exogenous glucocorticoids are cleared from the plasma and metabolized at an accelerated rate ( 418 ). Since plasma glucocorticoid levels are normal and their rate of metabolism is increased, total daily metabolism and excretion of 17-ketosteroids and 17 hydroxy-corticoids are usually increased ( 419 , 420 ). Furthermore, there is a relatively increased excretion of 11-oxycorticoid metabolites ( 421 ), which are biologically inactive compounds. There is increased secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) by the pituitary, and subsequently increased production of steroids by the adrenal gland in order to maintain a normal concentration of active steroids in the peripheral blood and in the tissues ( 422 , 423 ). However, a reduced response to exogenous ACTH suggests that adrenal reserve is reduced ( 424 ), and it has been hypothesized that in severe thyrotoxicosis and in thyroid storm there may be an element of adrenal insufficiency. An increase in the 5-alpha metabolite of testosterone (androsterone) and a relative decrease in the 5-beta metabolite (etiocholanolone) are seen in the urine of thyrotoxic patients ( 425 , 426 ). Because administration of substantial amounts of androsterone depresses the level of serum lipids, Hellman et al. have hypothesized that this change
