Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


urine of thyrotoxic patients ( 425 , 426 ). Because administration of substantial amounts of androsterone depresses the level of serum lipids, Hellman et al. have hypothesized that this change in steroid metabolism may be a way in which thyroid hormone affects lipid metabolism. Skeletal System Patients with mild thyrotoxicosis can experience some degree of bone mass loss and increased fracture risk, irrespective of age or sex ( 427 - 429 ). Those with thyrotoxicosis extending over several years may develop severe osteoporosis ( 430 , 431 ). Skeletal mass is augmented after restauration of euthyroidism ( 428 , 429 ). The thyroid hormone receptors α1 (TRα1), TRβ1, and TRβ2 are expressed in human osteoblasts and bone marrow stromal cells. Histomorphometry evaluations with tetracycline labelling demonstrates accelerated turnover of bone, calcium, and collagen, both in spontaneous hyperthyroidism and in female treated with excess thyroid hormone ( 298 , 432 , 433 ). Serum osteocalcin, carboxy-terminal-1-telopeptide, and alkaline phosphatase may increase in parallel with hormone levels ( 434 - 437 ). These tend to normalize with restauration of euthyroidism. The serum calcium level is usually normal but may be sufficiently elevated to produce nausea and emesis ( 402 ), and rarely, renal injury ( 403 , 438 ). Fecal and urinary calcium excretion is greatly augmented, but kidney stones are infrequent since there is a concomitant polyuria with increase in excretion of colloids that stabilize the calcium ( 433 ). Intestinal absorption of calcium is usually reduced ( 439 ). The hypercalcemia appears to be a direct manifestation of thyroid hormone action on bone metabolism and can lead to secondary hypoparathyroidism with reduced 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D ( 440 , 441 ), and elevated serum phosphorus secondary to increased renal resorption ( 438 , 442 ). It has been proposed that the hypercalcemia can usually be corrected partially or totally by the administration of glucocorticoids, but data is inconclusive ( 442 , 443 ). Treatment of thyrotoxicosis is certainly able to normalize these abnormalities ( 444 ). Metabolism METABOLIC RATE The basal oxygen consumption in thyrotoxicosis, as measured by the basal metabolic rate (BMR), is elevated compared to a euthyroid person. In extreme thyrotoxicosis, the BMR may be double the standard ( 445 - 447 ). In addition, the total metabolic rate, which is the BMR plus the increments from work, food, or stress, is elevated. Observations regarding energy expenditure are mixed. An
