Graves’ Disease and the Manifestations of Thyrotoxicosis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, thyroid, disease, clin, endocrinol, patients, graves, clin endocrinol, graves disease, metab, endocrinol metab, metab pubmed, free, thyrotoxicosis, article


- 447 ). In addition, the total metabolic rate, which is the BMR plus the increments from work, food, or stress, is elevated. Observations regarding energy expenditure are mixed. An increased cost of muscular work with less efficient coupling of oxidation and energy use in patients with thyrotoxicosis was reported many years ago by Plummer and Boothby ( 448 ) and Briard et al. ( 449 ) among others. However, recent studies suggest that the increase in energy expenditure caused by work is not altered in thyrotoxicosis ( 450 ). CARBOHYDRATE METABOLISM Intestinal carbohydrate absorption is accelerated, as is its removal from the plasma. After a standard oral glucose load is given, the thyrotoxic patient characteristically has an early and rapid rise in blood glucose concentration in 30 - 60 minutes followed by a rapid fall, so that by two hours the concentration is normal ( 451 - 453 ). In non-diabetic thyrotoxic patients there is increased insulin demand and there could be some resistance to the action of insulin. Fasting blood glucose levels are associated with double the normal insulin concentration ( 454 ), and insulin resistance has been found in vitro utilizing adipocytes from patients with untreated hyperthyroidism ( 455 ). Diabetes may develop (in patients with prediabetes) or worsen with the development of thyrotoxicosis and is ameliorated or may disappear when thyrotoxicosis is treated ( 456 ). In these patients, there is increased basal hepatic glucose production and reduced ability of insulin and glucose to suppress hepatic glucose production, another marker of insulin resistance ( 457 , 458 ). LIPID METABOLISM Hypocholesterolemia is associated with thyrotoxicosis. It may be produced without a distinct decrease in total body or liver cholesterol. Part of the cholesterol-lowering action of thyroid hormone relates to malnutrition and weight loss, and part may be simply a manifestation of hypermetabolism. There is an increase both in synthesis and degradation of cholesterol, but the balance results in lower steady-state concentrations in the serum ( 459 - 469 ). Thyroid hormone directly enhances conversion of cholesterol to bile acids and their excretion in the bile, disposing of 70-90% of the cholesterol formed in the body ( 462 ). They may also affect cholesterol metabolism by directly increasing the number of membrane surface low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors ( 463 ). Furthermore, hepatic lipogenesis is also strikingly increased, both by direct action of thyroid hormones and in response
