Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


26–1 CHAPTER 26 LIVER AND GALLBLADDER DISEASE IN DIABETES Constance E. Ruhl, MD, PhD, Jeanne M. Clark, MD, MPH, and James E. Everhart, MD, MPH Dr. Constance E. Ruhl is an Epidemiologist at Social & Scientific Systems, Inc., Silver Spring, MD. Dr. Jeanne M. Clark is a Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology and Director of the Division of General Internal Medicine at The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Dr. James E. Everhart was Chief of the Epidemiology and Clinical Trials Branch in the Division of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda, MD, at the time this work was done. Received in final form August 3, 2015. SUMMARY This chapter focuses on the relationships of three common chronic liver diseases—nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), viral hepatitis, and cirrhosis—and of gallstone disease with diabetes. NAFLD requires finding fat (steatosis) in the liver in the absence of heavy alcohol consumption and other secondary causes of hepatic steatosis. In a nationally representative sample of the U.S. population, the prevalence of NAFLD assessed by ultrasonography was greater among persons with diagnosed (45.5%) and undiagnosed (43.1%) diabetes and prediabetes (24.9%) compared to those with normal glucose (15.9%). Diabetes and insulin resistance are thought to be closely linked to the development and progression of NAFLD. However, there is also evidence that NAFLD increases the risk of diabetes. The risk of incident diabetes was at least twice as high among persons with NAFLD in several prospective studies that defined NAFLD based on elevated liver enzymes. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection has been associated with an increased risk of diabetes, although results of population-based studies have been inconsistent. In contrast, there is little evidence that hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection increases the risk of diabetes. In a nationally representative sample of the U.S. population, HCV infection (HCV antibody positive) was not associated with diabetes (odds ratio [OR] 0.8) or prediabetes (OR 1.0). Similarly, HBV infection (HBV core antibody positive) was unrelated to diabetes (OR 1.0) and prediabetes (OR 1.1). Diabetes is found in a high proportion of patients with cirrhosis (35%–71%), regardless of the liver disease etiology. Furthermore, the proportion of diabetes among those with cirrhosis is particularly high (as much as 71%) in studies that have included oral glucose toler­ ance testing. Among patients listed as candidates for liver transplantation, more than one-quarter carry a diagnosis of diabetes,
