Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


(as much as 71%) in studies that have included oral glucose toler­ ance testing. Among patients listed as candidates for liver transplantation, more than one-quarter carry a diagnosis of diabetes, which is double the proportion 20 years ago. Patients with diabetes awaiting liver transplantation have an increased risk of removal from the waiting list due to dying before transplantation or to deteriorating health resulting in medical contraindications to transplantation (OR 1.2). After liver transplantation, new-onset diabetes has been commonly reported (as high as 54% of HCV positive patients), usually among patients without adequate glucose testing before transplantation. Finally, a high prevalence of gallstone disease (gallstones or history of cholecystectomy) was documented by ultrasound among persons with diagnosed (33.3%) and undiagnosed (23.3%) diabetes and prediabetes (20.8%) compared to persons with normal glucose (16.7%) in a nationally representative sample of the U.S. population. This relationship was present across demographic subgroups, for both gallstones and cholecystectomy. Review of published epidemiologic studies of ultrasound-detected gallstone disease likewise indicates a fairly consistent association of gallstone disease with diabetes independent of adiposity or other shared risk factors. An association of insulin resistance with gallstone disease has also been shown among those without diabetes. For example, gallstone disease was 60% more common among the highest compared to the lowest fasting serum insulin quintile among U.S. women. Insulin resistance may be a link between diabetes and gallstone disease. INTRODUCTION This chapter concerns the relationship between diabetes and certain chronic liver diseases and gallstone disease. It does not address all liver diseases, of which there are many, or chronic liver disease in general. Rather, the authors have examined the association of diabetes with a few signif­ icant and relatively common liver diseases for which there are national data. These are fatty liver, especially fatty liver in the absence of significant alcohol consumption (nonalcoholic fatty liver disease [NAFLD]), chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, and cirrhosis. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is addressed in Chapter 29 Cancer and Diabetes. The significance of diabetes in liver transplantation and its occurrence 26–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition posttransplantation are examined in this chapter. Finally, the association of diabetes with gallstones and cholecystec­ tomy is described. As the various forms of hepatobiliary disease are discussed in the following sections, the reader is cautioned not to infer causal relationships with diabetes. Diabetes, certain liver diseases, and gall­ stones share numerous
