Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


forms of hepatobiliary disease are discussed in the following sections, the reader is cautioned not to infer causal relationships with diabetes. Diabetes, certain liver diseases, and gall­ stones share numerous risk factors and pathophysiologic pathways. It has been difficult to establish that one condition precedes another, much less a causal rela­ tionship. For example, although a greater than twofold increase in liver disease mortality has been reported among persons with diabetes (1,2), it should not be inferred necessarily that diabetes caused the increase. DATA SOURCES AND LIMITATIONS NATIONAL HEALTH AND NUTRITION EXAMINATION SURVEYS The National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) are nationally representative surveys conducted in the United States by the National Center for Health Statistics of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to assess the health and nutritional status in the general U.S. population (3). The NHANES consist of interviews, physical examinations, and laboratory tests. The NHANES III (1988–1994) and NHANES 1999–2010 were used in this chapter to generate new data for the U.S. population on the relationships of NAFLD, HCV, HBV, and gallstone disease with diabetes and prediabetes. The NHANES III provided the only national data on hepatic steatosis and on subclinical gallstone disease. Abdominal ultrasonography was performed on adults age 20–74 years who underwent an examination at a mobile examination center in order to identify subclinical gallstone disease. The NHANES III ultrasounds were reviewed in 2009–2010 to identify hepatic steatosis. NHANES serum specimens have been analyzed for markers of HBV (core total antibody [HBcAb] and surface antigen [HBsAg]) and of HCV (antibody and, since 1999, ribonucleic acid [RNA]). The NHANES also provided national data on undiagnosed and diagnosed diabetes. Participants were asked about a health care provider diagnosis of diabetes and had measurements of serum glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) and fasting plasma glucose. Diabetes is defined in the NHANES III as diagnosed diabetes (self- reported doctor or health professional diagnosis) and, among persons without a diagnosis, as undiagnosed diabetes (A1c ≥6.5% [≥48 mmol/mol] or fasting glucose ≥126 mg/dL [≥6.99 mmol/L]), prediabetes (A1c 5.7%–6.4% [39–46 mmol/mol] or fasting glucose 100–125 mg/dL [5.55–6.94 mmol/L]), or normal glucose levels (A1c <5.7% and fasting glucose <100 mg/dL). A strength of the NHANES is the large sample that is representative of the general U.S. population. A limitation of these surveys is the cross-sectional design that does not permit determination of temporal relationships between abnormal glucose metabolism and diseases of the liver
