Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


the general U.S. population. A limitation of these surveys is the cross-sectional design that does not permit determination of temporal relationships between abnormal glucose metabolism and diseases of the liver and gallbladder. An additional limitation of the NHANES III is the use of ultrasound for detection of hepatic steatosis, whereas the criterion standard is a histological diagnosis. Ultrasound was found to be accurate for predicting moderate-severe fatty liver in relation to histology with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) of 0.93 and a sensitivity of 85% and spec­ ificity of 94% in a 2011 meta-analysis (4). However, it is insensitive to mild steatosis and cannot be used to differentiate steato­ hepatitis from steatosis or to identify fibrosis, so ultrasound may underestimate the true prevalence of fatty liver disease. SCIENTIFIC REGISTRY OF TRANSPLANT RECIPIENTS The Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR) is a national database of transplantation statistics that was founded to support the evaluation of the scientific and clinical status of solid organ transplantation, including liver (5). Data are collected by the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network from hospi­ tals and organ procurement organizations throughout the United States. The SRTR is administered by the Chronic Disease Research Group of the Minneapolis Medical Research Foundation. The SRTR Standard Analysis File (SAF) includes data on all persons in the U.S. population listed as candidates for liver transplanta­ tion. Information on diabetes has been included in the SAF since 1994. The SRTR was used in this chapter to examine the relationship of liver transplantation and diabetes in the U.S. population. A limita­ tion of this database is that the quality of the data is unverified. Information on a diabetes diagnosis is self-reported. NONALCOHOLIC FATTY LIVER DISEASE AND NONALCOHOLIC STEATOHEPATITIS NONALCOHOLIC FATTY LIVER DISEASE: DESCRIPTION AND DIAGNOSIS NAFLD is a chronic liver disease that affects people with and without diabetes. NAFLD encompasses a spectrum of liver (histopathologic) abnormalities ranging from a simple accumulation of fat (simple steatosis), to a necroinflammatory condi­ tion known as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), to various stages of fibrosis, which if advanced, may culminate in cirrhosis. As with other chronic liver diseases, once cirrhosis is present, HCC can occur. In addition, there is growing evidence that HCC can occur in NAFLD even without substantial fibrosis or cirrhosis (6). Hepatic steatosis has a number of underlying etiologies, including certain medications (e.g., tamoxifen), genetic Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
