Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


occur in NAFLD even without substantial fibrosis or cirrhosis (6). Hepatic steatosis has a number of underlying etiologies, including certain medications (e.g., tamoxifen), genetic Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes 26–3 metabolic disorders (e.g., Weber-Christian disease), hepatotoxins (e.g., solvents), and nutritional supplementation (e.g., paren­ teral nutrition). Alcohol consumption is also a major cause of hepatic steatosis. NAFLD is diagnosed when steatosis and/or steatohepatitis are present in the absence of these other underlying causes, including significant alcohol consumption. Although the level of evidence is moderate-low, the 2012 NAFLD guidelines from the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, the American College of Gastroenterology, and the American Gastroenterological Association recommend using cutoffs of >21 drinks on average per week in men and >14 drinks on average per week in women as representing significant alcohol consumption (7). Given the propensity of individuals to under-report alcohol consumption, in the analyses conducted for this chapter, excessive alcohol use was defined as >2 drinks per day for men and >1 drink per day for women (8). NAFLD is a diagnosis confirmed by a liver biopsy, accompanied by a suggestive history and exclusion of other causes of liver disease (7). However, liver biopsies are typically not feasible in population-based epidemiologic studies. Therefore, the diagnosis is usually made using surrogate markers, such as radio­ logic imaging with ultrasonography, computerized tomography, magnetic reso­ nance (MR) imaging, or less optimally, liver enzymes. Fibroscan®, which can detect liver stiffness as an estimate of fibrosis, was approved in 2013 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; however, data acquisition and accuracy appear lower in obese patients compared to those of normal weight. MR elastography, which can accurately estimate fibrosis in a variety of liver diseases, can be affected by inflam­ mation and is expensive and not yet widely available. To date, ultrasound remains the most widely used imaging modality across the United States and worldwide. As with biopsy, these tests are generally used in combination with history and laboratory tests, such that NAFLD is often defined as radiologic evidence of liver fat or abnormal liver enzyme elevation in the absence of significant alcohol consumption, use of some medications, viral hepatitis, or iron overload. These surrogate tests vary widely in their costs, and to date, none has been able to accurately detect inflammation or NASH or to stage fibrosis (9). The Fatty Liver Index was developed in Italy to more accurately detect
