Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


higher prev­ alence of NASH and advanced fibrosis/ cirrhosis (35,36). In the few prospective studies that examined the progression of liver disease, the presence of NASH was the strongest predictor of progression (14). However, no study has clearly isolated the impact of diabetes on progression independently of other factors, including baseline histology. As mentioned, NAFLD is also known to precede HCC. While prospective data are also limited for this outcome, a number of studies have found that individuals with diabetes are at higher risk for developing HCC with relative risks of twofold to threefold for HCC compared to those without diabetes (37). NAFLD, TYPE 2 DIABETES, AND MORTALITY NAFLD leads to end-stage liver disease (cirrhosis) and HCC, two conditions that are strongly associated with liver- related mortality. Indeed, some studies have shown an increase in liver-related mortality in patients with NAFLD (38). Several prior population-based studies reported increased liver-related mortality in those with diabetes. As shown in Table 26.5, NAFLD is associated with increased liver-related mortality in most, but not all studies, with hazard ratios ranging from 0.64 to 13.0 compared to those without NAFLD (39,40,41,42). The Verona Diabetes Study found a standardized mortality ratio (SMR) for liver disease and cirrhosis of 2.5 (95% CI 2.0–3.2) in those with diabetes compared to the general population (43). This increased risk was slightly higher in men (SMR 2.82, 95% CI 2.08–3.76) than women (SMR 2.04, 95% CI 1.26–3.12). A study done in individuals with diabetes in Wisconsin had similar findings (SMR 2.3, 95% CI 0.9–4.7), but the results were not statistically significant, perhaps due to a small number of liver-related deaths (44). Neither of these studies determined the underlying liver disease that caused cirrhosis or liver-related mortality. In addition to liver-related mortality, NAFLD may be associated with an increased risk of all-cause or cardiovascular mortality; however, data supporting this hypothesis are weak. In particular, population-based studies in the United States have shown mixed results (Table 26.5). As with prevalence studies, the diagnostic criteria for NAFLD in these studies have differed substantially. In general, studies using liver enzymes have shown a small, statistically significant risk of all-cause mortality. The highest risk has been shown in those with elevations in GGT. Using ultrasound to identify NAFLD TABLE 26.4. Age-Standardized Prevalence of Presumed Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Among Persons With Diabetes, by Use of Different Diabetes Medications, U.S., 1988–1994 and 1999–2010 DIABETES MEDICATIONS PERCENT (STANDARD
