Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


GGT was associated with increased risk of diabetes- related mortality (HR 3.3, 95% CI 1.4–7.6) even after adjustment for multiple factors, but elevated ALT was not associated with diabetes mortality (40). Because most studies have not reported on diabetes- related mortality, this finding remains to be replicated. NAFLD is associated with increased liver-related mortality, as well as all-cause mortality, but limited data suggest that this does not differ in people with diabetes compared to those without. NAFLD may be associated with increased cardiovas­ cular mortality, especially in older adults and in those with diabetes, but these find­ ings require verification. Future studies are needed to assess the prognostic implica­ tions of different stages of liver disease in people with diabetes on all-cause, cardio­ vascular, and cancer mortality. 26–8 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition VIRAL HEPATITIS HEPATITIS C AND DIABETES In the United States, chronic HCV is the leading indication for liver transplantation and the leading cause of death from liver disease (46,47,48). The presence of IgG antibody to the virus (anti-HCV) in the blood indicates either past or current infection. A positive blood test for HCV RNA indicates ongoing infection. An asso­ ciation between HCV and type 2 diabetes has been noted beginning shortly after the discovery of HCV in 1989. Subsequently, a meta-analysis found diabetes to be more frequent among persons with HCV with an adjusted odds ratio of 1.68 based on seven cross-sectional studies and a hazard ratio of 1.67 based on three cohort studies (49). However, many of these studies were clinical series, in which ascertainment bias is likely because patients under medical care for one chronic condition (such as diabetes) are more likely to undergo testing for other chronic diseases (such as HCV), especially if they have features in common, such as elevated liver enzyme activity (50). Published population-based studies and other cohort studies that avoided ascer­ tainment bias demonstrated a moderate association of the two conditions, but the results have not been consistent (see below). In addition, patients with HCV are likely to have advanced liver disease, which may increase the risk of diabetes independently of cause. This concern may be somewhat mitigated in studies that include liver biopsies or that compare diabetes in HCV versus other causes of chronic liver disease. The association between diabetes and HCV has been specifically examined in four population-based studies without consistent results (51,52,53,54). In the NHANES III, a
