Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


demographic subgroups (Table 26.6). The age-sex-race/ethnicity adjusted odds ratios for anti-HCV positive were not increased for either diabetes (OR 0.8) or prediabetes (OR 1.0) relative to normal glucose levels. Similarly, the prevalence of HCV RNA positivity was not different across glucose categories, and the adjusted odds ratios were not higher for diabetes and prediabetes (Table 26.7). The overall results for anti-HCV and HCV RNA are summarized in Figure 26.2. Diabetes and prediabetes remained unassociated with HCV infection in multivariate analyses that adjusted for additional factors (55). A finding of increased insulin resistance among persons with HCV would strengthen the evidence for an association of diabetes. Surrogate estimates for increased insulin resistance, such as high homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), have been found more commonly among persons with HCV than those without (56,57,58). Stronger evidence of a relationship of HCV to insulin resistance comes from HCV treatment studies in which glucose and insulin were measured before and after treatment. Improvement in insulin resistance among treated patients who clear virus (i.e., achieve a sustained virologic response) relative to patients who do not clear the virus would provide support for the hypoth­ esis that chronic HCV infection has a direct effect on glucose dysregulation. Most studies of HCV and insulin resistance used HOMA-IR to estimate insulin resistance (59). In general, a decline was seen in esti­ mated insulin resistance among those who achieved a sustained virologic response that did not occur among patients who were nonresponders to treatment or who had virologic relapse following treat­ ment (60,61,62,63). However, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of HOMA-IR and other surrogate measures of insulin resistance in chronic HCV (64). One small study utilized a more direct measure of insulin resistance—insulin suppression tests (65). The authors found a nonsta­ tistically significant greater improvement in insulin resistance among 14 patients with sustained virologic response than among nine nonresponders (65). At least two studies with longer-term follow-up indicated a lower risk of new-onset diabetes among participants who achieved a sustained virologic response (66,67). It should be noted that an improvement in insulin resistance among patients with sustained virologic response might not be a direct effect of virus elimination. It could also be due to improvement in liver func­ tion following virus eradication (68). In conclusion, it is possible that HCV has a permissive rather than direct effect on the development of diabetes. Thus, HCV may
