Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


mg/dL; normal glucose is defined as A1c <5.7% and fasting plasma glucose <100 mg/dL. Data are standardized to the National Health Interview Survey 2010 diabetic population age ≥20 years using age categories 20–44, 45–64, and ≥65 years. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. Conversions for A1c and glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. RNA, ribonucleic acid. SOURCE: National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 1999–2010 26–10 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition HEPATITIS B AND DIABETES There are several tests for HBV infection. For epidemiologic studies, the most commonly used and useful tests are serum HBcAb, which indicates exposure to HBV, and HBsAg, which indicates current infection. The distribution of chronic HBV infection is highly regional, being endemic throughout much of eastern Asia and parts of Africa and much less prevalent in North America and Western Europe. In the United States, HBV is a major concern among immi­ grants from endemic regions. Worldwide, chronic HBV infection may pose a more significant health burden than HCV. The risk of HCC is much higher in HBV than HCV, and HCC remains a leading cause of cancer mortality in much of the world. Compared to HCV, there is less evidence that HBV increases the risk of diabetes. In fact, several studies have used patients with HBV as the reference group when examining the prevalence of diabetes in HCV (69,70,71,72). In the study from Taiwan in which HCV was shown to increase the rate of new-onset diabetes, the incidence of diabetes among participants with chronic HBV (positive for HBsAg) was not greater than among those who were HBV-seronegative (53). New analyses of NHANES 1999–2010 data on HBV serology and diabetes were conducted for Diabetes in America. Among over 30,000 tested participants, 1,998 were HBcAb positive and 115 were HBsAg positive. As with the HCV analysis, the diagnosis of diabetes was based on self-report, A1c ≥6.5%, or fasting glucose ≥126 mg/dL. The unadjusted prevalence of HBcAb was higher among those participants with diabetes (8.0%) compared with participants with normal glucose levels (5.6%) (Table 26.8). This difference was more pronounced among women (8.0% with diabetes vs. 4.2% with normal glucose levels). Among the different racial/ethnic groups, prevalence was especially high for non-Hispanic blacks and highest for “other” ethnicities, mostly of Asian origin. With adjustment for age, sex, and race/ethnicity, the odds TABLE 26.8. Age-Standardized Prevalence and Odds Ratios of Positive Serum Antibody to
