Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


with cirrhosis. Investigators have differentiated diabetes mellitus (presumably type 2) from hepa­ togenous diabetes due to chronic liver disease, but the differentiation has been based largely on whether diabetes was recognized before (type 2) or after (hepa­ togenous) the diagnosis of cirrhosis and not on a pathophysiologic basis (76,79). A striking feature of diabetes associated with cirrhosis is the high proportion of patients with normal fasting glucose. The incidence of new-onset diabetes is also high among persons with cirrhosis. In an Italian study of 100 patients with compen­ sated cirrhosis (Child-Turcotte class A) who had normal OGTT, 21% developed diabetes during 4 years of follow-up even without overt worsening of liver function (80). The risk was higher among patients who had deteriorating liver function (35%). The pres­ ence of portal hypertension appeared to increase the risk of diabetes. Additionally, patients with cirrhosis and diabetes appear to have a worse prognosis than those with cirrhosis without diabetes (75,81). DIABETES AND LIVER TRANSPLANTATION The large majority of adult liver transplan­ tation is performed for decompensated cirrhosis and for HCC. Most patients with HCC also have cirrhosis, but not neces­ sarily advanced enough to trigger the need for transplantation on its own. Data on all patients listed for liver transplantation in the United States from the SRTR SAF have been newly analyzed for Diabetes in America. There has been a steady increase in the recognition of diabetes at the time of listing since it was first recorded as a comorbidity in listed patients (Figure 26.3). From 1994, when 13.7% (n=507) of listed patients carried a diagnosis of diabetes, the proportion doubled to 27.9% in 2013 (n=2,321). Although this doubling in prevalence is striking, it is difficult to interpret. As stated, a high proportion of patients with cirrhosis are found to have diabetes when specifically tested for it. Thus, the observed increase might be due to a combination of an actual increase in diabetes and an increase in its diagnosis. Characteristics of patients with and without diagnosis of diabetes at the time of listing and at transplantation are shown in Table 26.11. Patients with diabetes were more likely to be older, male, Hispanic, less educated, have poorer functional status, on dialysis, hypertensive, and have higher BMI than those without diabetes. Interestingly, Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scores (a scale used for prioritizing liver transplant candidates in which a higher score indicates a more
