Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


may be more informative to consider the proportion listed with diabetes according to liver disease diagnosis: § 58.0% for fatty liver § 35.7% for other causes of cirrhosis § 27.3% for HCC § 20.4% for HCV § 19.5% for HBV § 19.0% for alcoholic liver disease § 13.6% for autoimmune liver disease The high percentage for fatty liver is not surprising, given the strong association of fatty liver with diabetes (see the section Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis). A high proportion of those patients with “other causes of cirrhosis” probably also had fatty liver, because the diagnosis has only recently received attention and because the amount of fat declines with advanced cirrhosis and may be difficult to detect. Because diabetes is a risk factor for HCC, the high percentage of cancer cases with diabetes is not surprising. It is noteworthy that the recognition of diabetes among patients with HCV was just modestly higher than for HBV, which as noted, has not been considered to connote as high a risk of diabetes as HCV. Between the time of listing and trans­ plantation, transplant candidates with diabetes are more likely to die or to be withdrawn from the waiting list, usually Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes 26–13 because of deteriorating health. These events occurred among 25.8% of those with diabetes and 22.2% of those without diabetes. The odds ratio for death or withdrawal from the waiting list was 1.22 (95% CI 1.19–1.26). Due to this increased risk of death or withdrawal, the proportion of patients with diabetes at the time of transplantation has been slightly less than at listing but has increased just as quickly over time (Figure 26.3). Diabetes is frequently recognized following liver transplantation regardless of the cause of liver disease due, at least in part, to immunosuppression posttransplantation. It has been suggested that the risk of posttransplant diabetes is greater among patients transplanted for HCV. In a meta-analysis of seven studies, the overall risk of posttransplant diabetes was 37.5% among HCV negative patients and 53.7% among patients who were HCV positive (82). The summary odds ratio was 2.5 (95% CI 1.4–4.2). A 2010 analysis of SRTR data reported that 28.8% of HCV infected recipients and 23.7% of uninfected recipients developed new-onset diabetes over a median follow-up of 685 days (83). The multivariate-adjusted hazard ratio was modest: 1.15 (95% CI 1.07–1.24) for infected versus uninfected patients. Risk
