Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


of uninfected recipients developed new-onset diabetes over a median follow-up of 685 days (83). The multivariate-adjusted hazard ratio was modest: 1.15 (95% CI 1.07–1.24) for infected versus uninfected patients. Risk factors for development of diabetes for both infected and uninfected patients included older age, higher BMI, the use of tacrolimus and steroid in the immunosuppression regimen, and lack of immunosuppression induction. Posttransplant HCV infection also has a modest association with insulin resistance (84,85). The increased posttransplant risk of diabetes with HCV could be due to a specific diabetogenic effect of HCV. Because liver disease is often accelerated due to the nearly universal posttransplant recurrence of HCV, liver function may have already deteriorated by the time of evaluation for diabetes. In contrast, many other liver diseases do not recur following transplantation or their evolution is slow. Furthermore, none of the analyses of “new-onset” posttransplant diabetes included pretransplant OGTT (86,87,88,89,90,91,92,93). The few studies that have diagnosed diabetes based on OGTT found that a high proportion of those with diabetes after transplant had impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes (as diagnosed by the 2-hour postload plasma glucose) before transplant (78,94). GALLBLADDER DISEASE Gallstone disease is a common condition affecting more than 20 million adults in the United States (95). The majority of gall­ stones in the United States are composed primarily of cholesterol. Cholesterol gall­ stones are believed to develop as a result of three factors: (1) a higher proportion of cholesterol relative to solubilizing bile acids and phospholipids in bile, (2) a higher proportion of pronucleating factors rela­ tive to antinucleating factors in bile, and (3) impaired gallbladder motility, which increases the opportunity for cholesterol nucleation in the gallbladder. Abdominal ultrasonography is the criterion standard for diagnosis of gallstones because of its accuracy and safety. The majority of gallstones remain asymptomatic. For symptomatic gallstones, the primary treat­ ment is cholecystectomy (surgical removal of the gallbladder), the majority of which are performed laparoscopically. Gallstone disease can be defined as the presence of gallstones on ultrasound or a history of a cholecystectomy. Established risk factors are older age, female sex, overweight and obesity, higher parity, and family history. Other factors that have been associated with a higher prevalence of gallstone disease are American Indian and, among women, Mexican American ethnicities, rapid weight loss, central adiposity, and cigarette smoking, while a lower prev­ alence of gallstones has been found in association with non-Hispanic black and some
