Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


among women, Mexican American ethnicities, rapid weight loss, central adiposity, and cigarette smoking, while a lower prev­ alence of gallstones has been found in association with non-Hispanic black and some Asian race ethnicities, higher alcohol consumption, and greater physical activity. GALLSTONE DISEASE AND DIABETES The relationship between diabetes and gallstone disease is complicated by their shared risk factors, such as age and obesity. Table 26.12 summarizes studies of the rela­ tionship of gallstone disease with diabetes that have been published since Diabetes in America, 2nd edition (96). All listed studies are population-based and, there­ fore, did not suffer from the ascertainment bias that can occur with selected patient samples. In all studies, gallstone disease was identified using ultrasonography. Diabetes was variably defined based on a self-reported health care provider diag­ nosis, fasting plasma glucose, or an OGTT. In the general U.S. population, both men and women reporting a diagnosis of diabetes were over 50% more likely to have gallstone disease compared to persons without a diabetes diagnosis after adjustment for multiple shared risk factors (Table 26.12) (95). Men and women with undiagnosed diabetes (fasting plasma glucose ≥126 mg/dL) were approximately twice as likely to have gallstone disease as persons with normal fasting glucose (<110 mg/dL [<6.11 mmol/L]) (Table 26.12) (97). This relationship reached statistical significance only among women. Impaired fasting glucose (110–125 mg/dL) was unrelated to gallstone disease among either women or men. Two other studies were conducted in the United States. Among Mexican Americans in a Texas county, women with previously diagnosed diabetes who were receiving treatment, or with newly identified diabetes based on two fasting plasma glucose levels ≥120 mg/dL (≥6.66 mmol/L), were twice as likely to have gallstone disease (98), while there was no relationship among men. Among a diverse group of American Indians, women with diabetes (based on an OGTT) had an over 40% higher prevalence of gallstone disease. Among men, the odds ratio was nearly as high (OR 1.29) but did not reach statistical significance (99). These results differ from a much earlier study of Pima Indians using cholecystography to identify gallstone disease that did not find a higher preva­ lence among those with diabetes (100). 26–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition TABLE 26.12. Prevalence and Relative Risk of Ultrasound-Diagnosed Gallstone Disease, by Diabetes Status POPULATION, YEARS (REF.) DIABETES STATUS SAMPLE SIZE GALLSTONE DISEASE (%) ADJUSTED OR (95% CI) Studies of gallstone disease prevalence NHANES
