Chapter 26: Liver and Gallbladder Disease in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, liver, disease, glucose, age, insulin, gallstone, gallstone disease, years, prevalence, risk, nafld, liver disease, hepatitis, health


1.0 Study of gallstone disease incidence Nondiabetic Italians age 30–69 years, 1985–1993 (118) Highest insulin quintile 101 cases, 303 controls 2.64 (1.04–6.72) Conversions for insulin values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. CI, confidence interval; HOMA-IR, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance; NHANES, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey; OR, odds ratio. SOURCE: References are listed within the table. in the highest quartile had an 80% higher prevalence of gallstones and over twice the prevalence of cholecystectomy (116). In a large study of nondiabetic Korean men, gallstones on ultrasound were associated with insulin resistance, and this relationship was found regardless of obesity status (117). Persons who met the criteria for the metabolic syndrome had an increased prevalence of gallstone disease in the Chilean study, while there was no statistically significant relationship of the metabolic syndrome with gallstones among Korean men. In the one prospective study of gallstone disease and insulin resistance of which the authors are aware, an increased risk of gallstone disease was found with insulin resistance among those without diabetes. In this Italian nested case-control study, an insulin level in the highest quintile was associated with incident gallstone disease with an odds ratio of 2.64 (118). In conclusion, among published popu­ lation-based studies utilizing gallbladder ultrasonography, there has been a fairly consistent association of gallstone disease with diabetes independent of adiposity and other factors. The increased risk has ranged from approximately 40% higher to double among persons with diabetes. The relationship has been more consistent among women than men. This may result from decreased statistical power to detect such a relationship in men, who have a lower prevalence of gallstones. In addition, although the majority of gallstones in the United States are cholesterol stones (119), the proportion of cholesterol stones is lower in men than in women (120,121). An exception with regard to gender differ­ ence was a stronger relationship among men in one of the Italian studies of inci­ dent gallstone disease (110). In analyses for Diabetes in America, age-standardized analyses of the U.S. population discussed above, a similar pattern of increasing gallstone disease prevalence with greater impairment of glucose metabolism was observed among men and women; young, middle-aged, and older adults; and non-Hispanic whites, non-Hispanic blacks, and Mexican Americans. With regard to the direction of the relation­ ship, it has generally been considered that diabetes predisposes to gallstone disease, though the majority of
