ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


structural lesions in the brain [1-5]. However, and by relying on pathogenesis, we can help develop effec- the cause of most epilepsy patients is unknown. Considering tive antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). the importance of timely seizure control, epilepsy pharma- cotherapy is an effective treatment strategy. Up to date, sig- Recently, the microbiota-gut-brain axis (gut-brain axis) nificant advances in epilepsy research and treatment have led has become increasingly popular in neurological disorders to a significant increase in third-generation antiseizure medi- due to its role in the bidirectional communication of neu- cations (ASMs). Twenty-six drugs for epilepsy have been ronal, endocrine, metabolic, and immune pathways. Over the approved by the US Food and Drug Administration . De- past 20 years, it has been discovered that the gut-brain axis spite this, seizures are not controlled in about one-third of affects cognitive, behavioral, and neuronal development [3, 8, 9]. Alterations in gut microbiota (GM) have been observed in many neuronal disorders, including depression, Parkinson’s JiangXi Road, Guangzhou 510120, Guangdong Province, China; Guang- Epilepsy is no exception. Studies comparing the GM of zhou National Laboratory, No. 9 XingDaoHuanBei Road, Guangzhou Inter- healthy and epileptic patients have consistently shown signifi- national Bio Island, Guangzhou 510005, Guangdong Province, China; cant differences . Furthermore, interventions targeting E-mail: 1875-6190/25 $65.00+.00 © 2025 Bentham Science Publishers 1316 Current Neuropharmacology, 2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 Li et al. GM have demonstrated antiepileptic effects. Thus, the gut- The gut-brain axis refers to the bidirectional communica- brain axis holds great promise to expose the pathogenesis of tion between the gut and the brain, including the nervous, epilepsy. In addition, remodeling or modulating GM may be endocrine, immune, and metabolic systems through the gut an effective means of developing AEDs for epilepsy treat- barrier and the blood-brain barrier (BBB), linking emotional ment. In this review, we summarize the relationship between and cognitive centers of the brain with peripheral intestinal GM and epileptogenesis and epilepsy development. Addi- functions [21-23] (Fig. 1). It is crucial for maintaining ho- tionally, we analyze the potential of the gut-brain axis as a meostasis in both the gastrointestinal tract and the central novel potential pathway for developing AEDs, providing nervous system (CNS) . The brain regulates the gut by new insights into the etiology and therapy of epilepsy. virtue of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) and hypotha- lamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis . The ANS con- 2. CONCEPT OF MICROBIOTA-GUT-BRAIN AXIS sists of
