ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


into the etiology and therapy of epilepsy. virtue of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) and hypotha- lamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis . The ANS con- 2. CONCEPT OF MICROBIOTA-GUT-BRAIN AXIS sists of the sympathetic nervous system, parasympathetic nervous system, and enteric nervous system . Notably, 2.1. Gut Microbiota and Microbiota-gut-brain Axis the vagus nerve is a major component of the parasympathetic The term GM refers to the trillions of bacteria, viruses, nerve, which has abundant afferent and efferent nerves in the fungi, and protozoa that colonize the gastrointestinal tract. spinal cord, receiving and transmitting signals from the gut The majority belong to the two phyla Firmicutes and Bac- and the brain . The HPA axis coordinates the stress re- teroidetes, followed by Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, sponse and produces signaling molecules that are distributed Fusobacteria, and Verrucomicrobia . The composition throughout the body, affecting GM . Conversely, the gut of GM is influenced by both genetic and environmental fac- can also signal to the CNS via the ANS, transmitters, and tors, including diet, geographic location, toxin exposure, and chemical metabolites . The enteric nervous system is the hormones . Hundreds of species of bacteria in the human most crucial component of ANS, also known as “the second gut collectively encode about 100 times more genes than the brain,” contributing to gut-brain communication . GM human genome itself , suggesting that GM plays a criti- stimulates enteroendocrine cells to produce gut peptides and cal role in human physiological functioning. Studies have hormones, which are absorbed into the bloodstream and af- shown that GM is mutually beneficial to the host due to its fect central events . It can also produce neurotransmitters role in digestion, absorption, immunity, metabolism, and such as serotonin, dopamine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid maintenance of the mucosal barrier in the gastrointestinal (GABA) that signal the brain [32-34]. tract . Additionally, GM regulates the survival and promotes the regeneration of enteric neurons . Thus, 2.2. Effects of Gut Microbiota on the Nervous System germ-free (GF) mice were reported to be more susceptible to Structure and Function inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) . Furthermore, al- Research indicates that GM can exert significant effects terations in specific GM are important for the development on various processes within the nervous system, including of many diseases. brain myelination, neurogenesis, microglia activation, mood, Fig. (1). The Microbiota-gut-brain axis. Bidirectional communication between the gut and the brain includes neural, endocrine, immune,
