ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


the nervous system, including of many diseases. brain myelination, neurogenesis, microglia activation, mood, Fig. (1). The Microbiota-gut-brain axis. Bidirectional communication between the gut and the brain includes neural, endocrine, immune, and metabolic systems through the intestinal barrier and the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Neural pathways include the autonomic nervous system (ANS), enteric nervous system (ENS), and vagus nerve (VN). Immune pathways include a range of inflammatory factors and cytokines, such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), interleukins (IL)-1, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α. Endocrine and metabolic pathways encompass a variety of microbe-derived neuroactive compounds and metabolites, including peptides, gut hormones, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), 5-hydroxytryptamine, and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs). (A higher resolution/colour version of this figure is available in the electronic copy of the article). Created with BioRender.com. Microbiota-gut-brain Axis: Novel Potential Pathways Current Neuropharmacology, 2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 1317 and cognition [35-37]. Myelination, a developmental phe- GABA-producing bacterium, improved tremor and mobility, nomenon that begins in the neonatal period and continues suggesting that GM plays an important role in essential into early adulthood, aligns with the development of the gut- tremor . In addition, probiotics supplementation has been brain axis. Administration of antibiotics cocktail during the shown to reduce anxiety-like behaviors and autism spectrum neonatal period has been found to result in long-lasting gut disorder-like behaviors [52-54]. A meta-analysis found that deficits, myelination dysregulation, and damage to oligoden- individuals with IBDs are at a higher risk of developing AD drocyte and hippocampal neurogenesis, as well as behavioral compared to non-inflammatory bowel populations. Moreo- deficits . Alterations in the gut commensal microbiota ver, patients with a diagnosis of Crohn’s disease or ulcera- have been linked to neuroinflammation . It has also been tive colitis are at a significantly higher risk of developing reported that microglia are immune cells of the nervous tis- AD and PD . Another study showed that the relative sue whose activation plays an important role in neurological abundance of Firmicutes was significantly lower in patients disorders . A study transplanting GM from mice subject- with AD , while a reduction in Lachnospiraceae leads to ed to prolonged unpredictable mild stress, characterized by a severe worsening of motor and non-motor symptoms in an increased relative abundance of Helicobacter, Bac- patients with PD . Furthermore, lower incidence of teroides, and Desulfovibrio, along with decreased relative Lactobacillus, Bifidobacteria, and butyrate-producing bacte- abundance of Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, and Akker- ria in fecal microbiota
