ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


patients with PD . Furthermore, lower incidence of teroides, and Desulfovibrio, along with decreased relative Lactobacillus, Bifidobacteria, and butyrate-producing bacte- abundance of Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, and Akker- ria in fecal microbiota were found in children with neurode- mansia, into naïve animals resulted in microglial priming in velopmental disorders . In patients with cerebral auto- the recipient animals . Furthermore, serotonin, a neuro- somal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and transmitter primarily produced by enterochromaffin cells, is leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), potential probiotics Eu- involved in the regulation of mood, behavior, and cognition bacterium eligens and Roseburia faecis, were depleted, while , whose synthesis requires gut microbes to metabolize its Fusobacterium varium and Clostridium aldenense were en- precursor substance, tryptophan . Bifidobacterium denti- riched . um, which colonizes the mucus layer of GF mice, was found to stimulate serotonin release from enterochromaffin cells 2.4 Gut Microbiota Closely Linked to Epilepsy through acetic acid release, consequently increasing seroto- Recent studies have increasingly demonstrated the poten- nin and serotonin receptor levels in the brain . Intestinal tial of GM in elucidating the pathogenesis of epilepsy and metabolites such as amino acids, SCFAs, bile acids, and enhancing its treatment efficacy (Table 2). The ketogenic hormones can modulate nervous system function by influ- diet (KD) has demonstrated efficacy in improving epilepsy, encing the immune-inflammatory response and the integrity enhancing the presence of intestinal Akkermansia muciniphi- of BBB . Additionally, GM dysbiosis leads to increased la and Parabacteroides in two mouse seizure models: release of cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, and Kcna1−/− mouse (for generalized tonic-clonic seizures) and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α, as well as components of the 6 Hz- induced mouse acute seizure model . When the bacterial cell wall like lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and pep- Kcna1−/− mice were transplanted with the GM from mice on tidoglycan. These factors enhance BBB permeability and KD, or specifically with Akkermansia and Parabacteroides, activate the HPA axis . it was observed that both interventions attenuated epilepsy . Interestingly, in GF mice following KD, seizure thresh- 2.3. Gut Microbiota and Neurological Disorders olds were not decreased when subjected to 6 Hz electrical Dysbiosis of the GM affects the gut-brain axis and may stimulation. However, when Akkermansia muciniphila and lead to CNS disorders . Over the past two decades, a Parabacteroides were transplanted to the gastrointestinal large number of studies have emphasized the important role tracts of GF or antibiotic-treated mice alongside KD,
