ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


. Over the past two decades, a Parabacteroides were transplanted to the gastrointestinal large number of studies have emphasized the important role tracts of GF or antibiotic-treated mice alongside KD, the of GM in controlling the course of various neurological dis- hippocampal GABA/glutamate ratio increased, and seizure orders (Table 1). A study demonstrates that increased intesti- thresholds significantly increased during electrical stimula- nal Klebsiella pneumoniae by gavage increases susceptibility tion at 6 Hz. This suggests that the enriched gut flora associ- to pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) -induced seizures in mice . ated with the KD possesses anti-epileptic properties . Another study analysed the composition of GM in 41 epilep- Patients with idiopathic focal epilepsy exhibited notably ele- sy patients and 30 family members of the patients. Epilepsy vated levels of Campylobacter, Delftia, Haemophilus, Lau- patients exhibited high levels of Fusobacterium, Verrucomi- tropia, and Neisseria among Proteobacteria, alongside re- crobia, and Alloprevotella . GF 3×Tg mice exhibited duced levels of Blautia, Coprococcus, Faecalibacterium, and reduced pathological changes in amyloid beta plaques and Ruminococcus among Firmicutes, compared to healthy vol- neurofibrillary tangles in the brain, as well as improved cog- unteers . Remarkably, in healthy volunteers, there was a nitive function compared to SPF 3×Tg mice. Further find- significant increase in Firmicutes, which are primarily re- ings demonstrated that a complex GM is necessary for be- sponsible for producing SCFAs, thereby potentially mitigat- havioral deficits, microglia activation, and pathological ing epilepsy risk. In children with focal epilepsy, Actinobac- changes in AD . To determine whether intestinal dys- teria, Escherichia/Shigella, Collinsella, Streptococcus, and function was responsible for the reduction in CNS GABA in Megamonas were found to be enriched. Following a 3-month essential tremor patients, fecal microbiota from both essen- oxcarbazepine treatment, a significant reduction in these tial tremor patients and healthy individuals were transplanted genera was observed . Notably, Escherichia/Shigella and into mice with essential tremor, respectively. Essential trem- Streptococcus have been implicated in inducing the release or mice that received the patients’ fecal microbiota exhibited of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including NLRP3 inflam- prolonged tremor time and impaired mobility. However, masome, IL-6, and TNF-α. Additionally, Collinsella enrich- supplementation with Lactobacillus plantarum L5, the main ment inhibits the growth of fermenting bacteria producing 1318 Current Neuropharmacology, 2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 Li et al. Table 1. The microbiota-gut-brain axis and neurological disorders. References Experimental Subject Result Lin et al. PTZ-induced mice seizure model Klebsiella pneumoniae increased
