ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 Li et al. Table 1. The microbiota-gut-brain axis and neurological disorders. References Experimental Subject Result Lin et al. PTZ-induced mice seizure model Klebsiella pneumoniae increased susceptibility to epilepsy Dong et al. Epilepsy patients ↑ Fusobacterium, Verrucomicrobia, Alloprevotella Chen et al. GF 3×Tg mice and SPF 3×Tg mice GM is essential for AD pathological changes Zhong et al. Tremor patients and mice Lactobacillus plantarum L5 improved tremor and mobility Chen et al. AD patients ↓ Firmicutes Ma et al. PD patients ↓ Lachnospiraceae Bojović et al. Children with neurodevelopmental disorders ↓ Lactobacillus, Bifidobacteria, butyrate-producing bacteria ↑ Fusobacterium varium, Clostridium aldenense; Liu et al. CADASIL patients ↓ Eubacterium eligens, Roseburia faecis Note: ↓: Decreased, ↑: Increased. Table 2. Gut microbiota alterations in epilepsy. References Types of Epilepsy Result Kcna1 −/− mice model for spontaneous tonic clonic seizures Olson et al. ↑ Akkermansia Muciniphila, Parabacteroides treated with ketogenic diet 6 Hz-induced mouse acute seizure model treated with keto- Olson et al. ↑ Akkermansia Muciniphila, Parabacteroides genic diet ↑ Campylobacter, Delftia, Haemophilus, Lautropia, Neisseria; Şafak et al. Patients with idiopathic focal epilepsy ↓ Blautia, Coprococcus, Faecalibacterium, Ruminococcus ↑ Actinobacteria, Escherichia/Shigella, Collinsella, Zhou et al. Children with focal epilepsy Streptococcus, Megamonas ↓ Actinobacteria, Escherichia/Shigella, Collinsella, Zhou et al. Children with focal epilepsy treated with oxcarbazepine Streptococcus, Megamonas Xie et al. Infants aged 1-4 years with refractory epilepsy ↑ Proteobacteria, Firmicutes Xie et al. Infants aged 1-4 years treated with refractory epilepsy ↑ Bacteroidetes; ↓ Proteobacteria Children with drug-resistant epilepsy treated with ketogenic Dahlin et al. ↓ Bifidobacteria longum, Bifidobacteria breve diet Note: ↓: Decreased, ↑: Increased. SCFAs and promotes the expression of IL-17, both contrib- 3. THE MICROBIOTA-GUT-BRAIN AXIS AND EPI- uting to epilepsy pathogenesis. Oxcarbazepine treatment may LEPTOGENESIS ameliorate epilepsy symptoms by reducing the abundance of Epilepsy is a neurological disorder. A large number of these bacteria . Furthermore, infants aged 1-4 years with studies have proved that GM can increase the susceptibility refractory epilepsy exhibited significantly lower GM diversi- to epilepsy and even correlate with epileptogenesis (Table 3). ty, increased Proteobacteria and Firmicutes, and decreased In a recent study, mice receiving microbiota from epileptic Bacteroidetes compared to healthy counterparts . Nota- mice exhibited increased seizure susceptibility compared to bly, Proteobacteria encompasses well-known pathogens those receiving microbiota from healthy mice. This study such as Escherichia, Salmonella, and Vibrio, which may supports that alterations in GM affect the excitability of
