ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


bly, Proteobacteria encompasses well-known pathogens those receiving microbiota from healthy mice. This study such as Escherichia, Salmonella, and Vibrio, which may supports that alterations in GM affect the excitability of neu- contribute to epilepsy pathogenesis. Following KD treat- rons in the brain, thereby leading to epilepsy through the gut- ment, the level of Proteobacteria significantly decreased, brain axis . Results of a study exploring the effects of and the abundance of Bacteroidetes approached that of GM alterations on PTZ-induced mice seizure model demon- healthy infants. In a follow-up study of 28 children with re- strated that intragastric administration of antibiotics exacer- fractory epilepsy treated with KD, a reduction in the relative bated subsequent seizures. In contrast, intragastric admin- abundance of Bifidobacteria longum was observed. istration of probiotics in this study attenuated subsequent Bifidobacteria longum was positively correlated with the seizures . The relative abundance of Firmicutes, Bac- pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF, thus contributing to epilep- teroidetes, Lactobacillus and Ruminococcus was significant- sy . ly increased in the probiotics group, whereas it was signifi- Microbiota-gut-brain Axis: Novel Potential Pathways Current Neuropharmacology, 2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 1319 cantly decreased in the antibiotics group. Their metabolites fovibrio and Marvinbryantia, along with increased excitatory butyric acid, propionic acid and isovaleric acid were signifi- neurotransmitters. Conversely, there was a notable reduction cantly increased in the probiotics group, whereas propionic in the Lachnospiraceae family, which is involved in SCFA acid and isovaleric acid were significantly decreased in the production. This reduction may lead to further neuroinflam- antibiotics group. Further studies suggest that this increased mation, and these inflammatory responses can worsen the progression of epilepsy . In another study of lithium- intestinal flora may reduce neuronal death in the brain and pilocarpine-induced epilepsy rats, cannabidiol demonstrated ameliorate subsequent PTZ-induced mice seizures by in- the ability to attenuate GM dysbiosis and metabolic disorders creasing butyric acid production and decreasing the expres- in epileptic rats, potentially contributing to its anti-epileptic sion of the death-related protein Bax in brain tissue. Another effects. Specifically, cannabidiol attenuated the reduction of study investigated the relationship between intestinal in- butyric acid-producing bacteria such as Prevotellace- flammation and epilepsy in normal mice and dextran sulfate ae_UCG-001 and Ruminococcaceae_UCG-005, thereby sodium-induced colitis mice. The findings suggest that al- exerting anti-inflammatory effects and improving epilepsy pha-lactoalbumin and sodium butyrate could exert anticon- . The U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved va- vulsant effects in PTZ-induced mice seizure
