ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


suggest that al- exerting anti-inflammatory effects and improving epilepsy pha-lactoalbumin and sodium butyrate could exert anticon- . The U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved va- vulsant effects in PTZ-induced mice seizure models by de- gus nerve stimulation for epilepsy treatment was found to creasing intestinal inflammation, whereas intestinal inflam- improve GM, including the activation of intestinal glial cells, mation reduced the antiepileptic effect of valproic acid . enhancement of intestinal barrier function, and stimulation of Significant differences in the Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes ratio enteroendocrine cells to produce gut peptides and hormones. between WAG/Rij rats (a well-established genetic model of These substances are then absorbed into the bloodstream, absence epilepsy) and Wistar rats have been found. Fecal affecting central events. This underscores the crucial role of microbiota transplantation (FMT) reduced seizure frequency GM in epilepsy development . in the WAG/Rij rats. This indicates that the gut-brain axis is A clinical study comparing the GM composition of drug- an important pathway for epileptogenesis . Results of a resistant epilepsy (DRE) patients, drug-sensitive epilepsy study comparing the GM composition and structure of rats patients, and healthy controls revealed significant differ- with or without epilepsy before and after lateral fluid trauma ences. The DRE patients exhibited distinct GM composition (LFPI) showed that the risk of post-traumatic epilepsy (PTE) compared to the other two groups. Specifically, DRE pa- after craniocerebral trauma was moderately correlated with tients showed a lower relative abundance of Bacteroides baseline fecal SCFA levels . SCFAs, such as acetic acid, finegoldii and Ruminococcus_g2. Bacteroides species are propionic acid, and butyric acid, are important metabolites able to produce the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA asso- produced by gut microbes, which protect against multiple ciated with seizure control. Ruminococcus_g2 may be in- aspects of epileptogenesis, including neurotransmitter modu- volved in seizure control by modulating adenosine triphos- lation, oxidative stress and neuroinflammation, maintenance phate binding cassette transporter (a transmembrane trans- of BBB integrity, and attenuation of responses to psychoso- porter protein pump that regulates the balance of excitability cial stress . and inhibition in neurons) and N-acetyl aspartic acid, a marker of neuronal health. These GM differences could po- Several observational clinical studies have shown that tentially serve as prognostic and efficacy assessment bi- GM dysbiosis is considered a high-risk factor for neurologi- omarkers during the development of epilepsy . Addi- cal complications like epilepsy and seizures in some IBDs. tionally, an analysis of different aspects of gastrointestinal These IBDs
