ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


factor for neurologi- omarkers during the development of epilepsy . Addi- cal complications like epilepsy and seizures in some IBDs. tionally, an analysis of different aspects of gastrointestinal These IBDs may contribute to epileptogenesis through the function in epilepsy patients compared to healthy individuals gut-brain axis pathway, such as immune activation, pro- indicated a higher incidence of functional gastrointestinal inflammatory factors, and neurotransmitter release. In addi- disorders among epilepsy patients. Furthermore, DRE pa- tion, GM dysbiosis can weaken the function of the intestinal tients had a greater likelihood of epileptic recurrence in the immune barrier and disrupt the BBB, which in turn induces presence of altered bowel movements, especially insomnia the production of inflammatory factors in the glial cells of . In addition, some studies have shown that KD, which is the brain, leading to behavior and cognition impairments, commonly used in epilepsy treatment, may be used to con- lowering the seizure threshold or inducing epileptiform dis- trol epilepsy by regulating GM . These results suggest a charges, or even leading directly to seizures [74-77]. clear correlation between the disruption of the normal com- Taken together, these findings highlight that changes in position of GM and the development of epilepsy. the gut microbiome can lead to changes in their metabolites, intestinal barrier, and intestinal inflammation, all of which 5. THE MICROBIOTA-GUT-BRAIN AXIS AND EPI- may contribute to epileptogenesis. LEPSY TREATMENT Emerging studies indicate that interventions aimed at 4. THE MICROBIOTA-GUT-BRAIN AXIS AND EPI- modulating GM hold considerable promise in improving LEPSY DEVELOPMENT epilepsy treatment, particularly in cases of refractory epilep- Inflammation, metabolic changes, alterations in neuronal sy . More importantly, compared to conventional ASMs, excitability, and gliosis induced by GM may play a crucial these methods may appear to have fewer side effects. With role in exacerbating epilepsy after its onset (Table 4). Ac- the in-depth research and understanding of the gut-brain axis, cording to a multi-omics analysis study, the GM profile of regulating gut microbes and their metabolites, including rats with lithium-pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epilepsy FMT, dietary modifications, probiotics, prebiotics, and syn- significantly contributes to the maintenance of the epileptic biotics, will provide a new avenue for epilepsy treatment state. This study showed increased pro-inflammatory Desul- (Fig. 2). 1320 Current Neuropharmacology, 2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 Li et al. Table 3. The microbiota-gut-brain axis and epileptogenesis. References Experimental Subject Result GM transplanted from epileptic animals to Mengoni et al.
