ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


Current Neuropharmacology, 2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 Li et al. Table 3. The microbiota-gut-brain axis and epileptogenesis. References Experimental Subject Result GM transplanted from epileptic animals to Mengoni et al. Recipient animals were more susceptible to seizures healthy recipient animals Zhai et al. PTZ-induced mice seizure model Antibiotics exacerbated seizures; Probiotics improved seizures De Caro et al. PTZ-induced epileptic mice Intestinal inflammation increases susceptibility to epilepsy Citraro et al. WAG/Rij rats FMT reduced seizure frequency in WAG/Rij rats Medel-Matus et al. Rats with LFPI Susceptibility to epilepsy was associated with GM characteristics before LFPI Table 4. The microbiota-gut-brain axis and epilepsy development. References Experimental Subject Result GM profile of epileptic rats contributes to the maintenance of the epilepsy Lithium-pilocarpine induced rat temporal state. Oliveira et al. lobe epilepsy Temporal lobe epilepsy in rats: ↑ Desulfovibrio, Marvinbryantia, L-glutamic acid levels; ↓ Lachnospiraceae family Lithium-pilocarpine induced rat temporal Cannabidiol improves epilepsy by increasing Prevotellaceae_UCG-001 and Gong et al. lobe epilepsy Ruminococcaceae_UCG-005 Peng et al. and Lee et al. Epilepsy patients DRE patients: ↓ Bacteroides finegoldii, Ruminococcus_g2 Epilepsy patients have a higher incidence of functional gastrointestinal disor- Avorio(cid:2)et al. Epilepsy patients ders; patients with DRE have an increased rate of seizure recurrence when bowel movements alter. Fig. (2). The microbiota-gut-brain axis and epilepsy treatment. Approaches that target the microbiota-gut-brain axis for the treatment of epi- lepsy include diet, probiotics, prebiotics, synbiotics, and FMT. (A higher resolution/colour version of this figure is available in the electronic copy of the article). Created with BioRender.com. 5.1. The Potential Application of Fecal Microbiota toms after FMT in a female patient with Crohn's disease and Transplantation in Epilepsy Treatment epilepsy for 17 years. This opens a window for the applica- tion of the gut-brain axis concept to control epilepsy . FMT is an increasingly promising approach to rebuilding Further studies have revealed intriguing insights. For in- GM, demonstrating efficacy across various conditions, in- stance, transplanting fecal microbiota from chronically cluding epilepsy . In 2017, He et al. first reported stressed rats into sham-stressed rats heightened susceptibility significant improvements in intestinal and neuronal symp- Microbiota-gut-brain Axis: Novel Potential Pathways Current Neuropharmacology, 2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 1321 to epilepsy and prolonged seizure duration. Conversely, . For instance, oral administration of Bifidobacterium transplanting fecal microbiota from sham-stressed rats into longum to rats with lithium-pilocarpine-induced temporal chronically stressed rats counteracted the epileptic effects of lobe epilepsy rats for 30 days resulted
