ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


of Bifidobacterium transplanting fecal microbiota from sham-stressed rats into longum to rats with lithium-pilocarpine-induced temporal chronically stressed rats counteracted the epileptic effects of lobe epilepsy rats for 30 days resulted in reduced neuronal stress. Remarkably, introducing fecal microbiota from non- death in the amygdala and anxiety levels in rats. Studies have stressed rats into chronically stressed rats reversed the sei- shown that Bifidobacterium longum increased the expression of anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective genes, suggesting zure-promoting impacts of stress. This underscores the piv- the potential of this bacterium for use in the treatment of otal role of GM dysbiosis in stressed states, which exacer- epilepsy . Bagheri et al. reported that in the PTZ- bates the kindling process within the basolateral amygdala. induced rat epilepsy model, the mixed probiotics of Lactoba- However, FMT aimed at rectifying this GM dysbiosis effec- cillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus reuteri, and Bifidobacterium tively countered its pro-epileptic effects . infantis could significantly reduce the severity of seizures and improve spatial learning and memory ability by regulat- 5.2. Diet Modifications ing GABA concentration, nitric oxide, malondialdehyde, and Diet plays a crucial role in GM modulation, affecting total antioxidant capacity . Additionally, patients with brain structure and function through the gut-brain axis [90, temporal lobe epilepsy taking BIFICO probiotic capsules 91]. The KD, a high-fat and low-carbohydrate diet, has consisting of Bifidobacterium longum, Lactobacillus aci- shown efficacy in managing refractory epilepsy. Recent dophilus, and Enterococcus faecalis exhibited reduced sei- studies indicate that KD can modify GM composition, sug- zures, as well as significant improvements in anxiety, de- gesting its therapeutic effect might be mediated through GM pression, and low quality of life indicators. This may be due alterations [92-94]. For instance, a study involving Taconic to the fact that these probiotics affect temporal lobe epilepsy Swiss Webster and Jackson C3HeB/FeJ Kcna1-/- mice re- pathology by modulating metabolism and neurotransmitters, vealed that KD reduced the alpha diversity of GMs and including dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, and GABA, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity while increasing the through the gut-brain axis . relative abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila and Parab- Prebiotics are indigestible food components that stimu- acteroides . These bacteria are associated with enhanced late the growth and activity of probiotics [107-109]. Probiot- ketosis and metabolic improvements. The reduction in gam- ics and prebiotics can also be used in combination as synbi- ma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity leads to an increase in otics. In a study, treatment with Bifidobacterium bifidum and
