ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


reduction in gam- ics and prebiotics can also be used in combination as synbi- ma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity leads to an increase in otics. In a study, treatment with Bifidobacterium bifidum and the GABA/glutamate ratio, offering protective effects against Lactobacillus lactis as probiotics, inulin as a prebiotic, and epilepsy. Notably, GF mice or those treated with antibiotics, their combination as a symbiotic improved spontaneous sei- zures and cognitive impairment in kainic acid-induced status the role of GM alterations in KD’s efficacy. In a study in- epileptic rats. Synbiotics seem to work better than probiotics volving children with epilepsy on a 3-month KD, significant or prebiotics alone . These interventions also inhibited reductions in Bifidobacteria and Eubacterium rectale were oxidative stress and inflammatory responses in the hippo- observed . However, based on current knowledge of the campus, correlating with their therapeutic effects . composition and function of GM, both bacteria and their metabolites, such as SCFAs, are considered beneficial to In summary, probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics offer health. Their decreased abundance of KD may be attributed promising avenues for epilepsy treatment by modulating the to the dietary restriction of carbohydrates, leading to ketone gut-brain axis, such as neurotransmitters and inflammatory body production from fats as an alternative energy source. responses. Further research in this area holds significant po- To counteract this reduction, supplementation with non- tential for developing novel therapeutic strategies for epilep- digestible carbohydrates like fibers may be beneficial for sy management. individuals with epilepsy on KD. Furthermore, research on high-fat diet-induced obesity models in mice has shown that CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE PERSPECTIVES polysaccharides from lycium barbarum, cultured cordyceps The establishment of the gut-brain axis begins with the sinensis, and herbal medicines can modulate GM diversity colonization of the GM at birth, closely associated with neu- and abundance while increasing the production of SCFAs, rological development and brain physiology. In epilepsy thereby inhibiting obesity [96-99]. Although no therapeutic research, GM dysbiosis has emerged as a significant charac- studies have explored these polysaccharides’s efficacy in teristic, potentially informing epilepsy prevention and diag- epilepsy, their potential to alter GM and metabolic pathways nosis. Moreover, both the modulation and intervention of suggests a promising avenue for future research in epilepsy GM have shown antiepileptic effects, which may provide a treatment. new avenue to develop AEDs. However, the causal relation- ship between the altered GM and epileptogenesis remains a 5.3. The Application of Probiotics, Prebiotics, and
