ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


which may provide a treatment. new avenue to develop AEDs. However, the causal relation- ship between the altered GM and epileptogenesis remains a 5.3. The Application of Probiotics, Prebiotics, and Synbi- topic of debate. Before implementing GM modulation as a otics in the Treatment of Epilepsy target for AEDs in epilepsy treatment, researchers need to Probiotics are live microorganisms beneficial to the host address various challenges related to the complexity of the and are considered a promising one-size-fits-all strategy to gastrointestinal tract and individual health. modulate GM due to their low toxicity [100-102]. They pro- Several critical aspects need to be addressed to establish duce beneficial metabolites such as SCFAs, serotonin, and and elucidate this causal relationship, as well as to improve neurotransmitters, which exert neuroprotective effects the feasibility of designing AEDs targeting the gut-brain through the gut-brain axis, making them a promising thera- axis. Firstly, it is crucial to characterize the GM during the peutic approach for gastrointestinal and brain dysfunction latency period and periods of epileptogenesis and epilepsy 1322 Current Neuropharmacology, 2025, Vol. 23, No. 11 Li et al. development. This approach helps to clarify whether the LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS specific GM alterations lead to epileptogenesis and epilepsy AD = Alzheimer's Disease development. However, most of the current studies have focused on clarifying the relationship between GM altera- AEDs = Antiepileptic Drugs tions and epilepsy susceptibility, as well as GM alterations ANS = Autonomic Nervous System between epileptic and normal individuals. Studies related to the differences in GM from the latency period to the devel- ASMs = Antiseizure Medications opmental process are not abundant. Therefore, a substantial BBB = Blood-brain Barrier amount of research is needed in this area. Secondly, consid- ering that GM is susceptible to a variety of conditions, future CADASIL = Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopa- studies of gut-brain axis mechanisms in epileptogenesis and thy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leu- epilepsy development should consider GM differences in koencephalopathy different types of epilepsy. Understanding the common GM CNS = Central Nervous System alterations in different types of epilepsy will greatly help to DRE = Drug-resistant Epilepsy reveal the specific mechanism of GM on epilepsy. Thirdly, in order to reduce the influence of other factors associated ENS = Enteric Nervous System with altered GM, there is a need to use more rigorous exper- FMT = Fecal Microbiota Transplantation imental designs on the one hand and to validate the
