ygolocamrahporueN
KEYWORDS: epilepsy, cid, cid cid, axis, patients, gut, mice, microbiota, brain, rats, treatment, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut-brain, gut-brain axis


Enteric Nervous System with altered GM, there is a need to use more rigorous exper- FMT = Fecal Microbiota Transplantation imental designs on the one hand and to validate the effects of specific gut microbes and their metabolites on epilepsy on GABA = Gamma-aminobutyric Acid the other hand, which can also contribute to epilepsy treat- GF = Germ-free ment. Butyrate, a major intestinal metabolite, has been high- lighted in numerous studies for its role in epilepsy pathogen- GM = Gut Microbiota esis and treatment. Notably, butyrate has been shown to up- Gut-brain Axis = Microbiota-gut-brain Axis regulate melatonergic pathways in intestinal epithelial cells . Intriguingly, this upregulation extends to brain cells, HPA = Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal particularly in astrocytes, which are known to efflux melato- 5-HT = 5-Hydroxytryptamine nin . Such local melatonin production has the capacity to suppress inflammatory activity and oxidative stress to IBDs = Inflammatory Bowel Diseases optimize mitochondrial function . These are all crucial IL = Interleukins aspects of epileptogenesis . Recent investigations fur- ther underscore the interplay between gut-derived butyrate KD = Ketogenic Diet and local melatonin in the pathophysiology of AD , LFPI = Lateral Fluid Percussion Injury which is a condition intricately linked to seizure emergence LPS = Lipopolysaccharide . Additionally, sodium butyrate, as a pan-histone deacetylase inhibitor, exerts anti-inflammatory effects by PD = Parkinson’s Disease inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome activation . Further- PTE = Post-traumatic Epilepsy more, butyrate counteracts the inhibition of astrocytic excita- tory amino acid transporters (EAAT) 1 and EAAT2 by Yin PTZ = Pentylenetetrazole Yang (YY)1 and its corepressors histone deacetylase . SCFAs = Short-chain Fatty Acids These can provide deeper insights into the role of the gut- brain axis in epilepsy and facilitate the development of tar- SD = Sprague Dawley geted therapeutic interventions. SPF = Specific Pathogen Free Taken together, defining specific GM alterations can be TNF = Tumor Necrosis Factor challenging due to variations in experimental replication. VN = Vagus Nerve However, efforts should be made to ensure consistent exper- imental conditions. Fortunately, the advancement of high- throughput sequencing and analysis platforms enables the CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION verification of results from multiple perspectives, leading to Not applicable. more accurate outcomes. Microbiomics combined with metabolomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and single-cell FUNDING RNA sequencing provide insights into the mechanisms of the gut-brain axis and epilepsy. As our understanding of the bi- This work was supported by the National Natural Science directional communication
