research-article20202020 TAR0010.1177/1753466620929225Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory DiseaseW Zhang, J Ye
KEYWORDS: marneffei, infection, mutation, patient, case, hiv-negative, patients, figure, diagnosis, marneffei infection, multiple, report, balf, gene, hangzhou


380 cells/µl, respec- tively. Hemoglobin was only 91 g/l. Blood gas analy- sis was normal. Serum immunoglobulin (Ig)E, IgG, IgA, and IgM were all normal. The plasma galacto- mannan antigen test and serum cryptococcal anti- gen agglutination test were normal. The sputum and blood cultures for both fungus and bacteria Figure 1. (A) Past chest CT scan (1 January 2019) showing multiple and sputum acid-fast bacillus test were negative. disseminated ground glass opacities with multiple bullae. (B, C) Chest CT Other routine laboratory examinations were nor- scan during follow up (26 January 2019 and 27 April 2019, respectively) mal, such as the white blood count, C-reactive showing distinct resolution of both lungs. CT, computed tomography. protein, glucose, aminotransferases, creatinine, vas- culitis antibodies, and autoantibodies. The CT scan showed multiple disseminated ground glass opaci- immunosuppressive therapies, and being positive ties with multiple bullae in both lungs (Figure 1A), for anti-interferon-gamma autoantibody. Therefore, no pleural effusion and pleural thickening, and no it is important to increase the diagnostic efficiency swollen superficial lymph nodes throughout the of this disease, especially in HIV-negative hosts, body, and no abnormal echocardiography, abdomi- with a effective technique. Here, we report a rare nal B-ultrasonic, and brain CT were observed. case of a HIV-negative patient with lung T. marneffei infection with a STAT3 (signal transducer and activa- Bronchoscopic examinations revealed uneven tor of transcription 3) mutation. local membrane surface (Figure 2A), hypoechoic areas in group 7, 4R, and 11Rs mediastinal lymph nodes through convex-probe endobronchial Case presentation ultrasound (Figure 2B), and hypoechoic shadow A 34-year-old young woman was admitted to our in the dorsal segment of the right lower lobe acute exacerbation with dyspnea for 1 month” on sound (Figure 2C). Cultures of the bronchoalve- 7 January 2019. The female presented with a olar lavage fluid (BALF) for bacteria and acid-fast 6-month history of slight nonproductive cough, bacilli were all negative. The galactomannan test 2 journals.sagepub.com/home/tar W Zhang, J Ye et al. Table 1. NGS of BALF identified 566 T. marneffei nucleotide sequences. Type Category Species Latin name Total_reads_ Total reads percent F Penicillium Talaromyces Penicillium – 566 mameffei marneffei BALF, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid; NGS, next generation sequencing. Figure 2. Bronchoscopy showed local uneven membrane surface (A), hypoechoic areas in group 7, 4R, and 11Rs mediastinal lymph nodes through CP-EBUS (B), and hypoechoic shadow in the dorsal segment of the right lower lobe through RP-EBUS (C). CP-EBUS, convex-probe
