research-article20202020 TAR0010.1177/1753466620929225Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory DiseaseW Zhang, J Ye
KEYWORDS: marneffei, infection, mutation, patient, case, hiv-negative, patients, figure, diagnosis, marneffei infection, multiple, report, balf, gene, hangzhou


areas in group 7, 4R, and 11Rs mediastinal lymph nodes through CP-EBUS (B), and hypoechoic shadow in the dorsal segment of the right lower lobe through RP-EBUS (C). CP-EBUS, convex-probe endobronchial ultrasound; RP-EBUS, radial-probe endobronchial ultrasound. Figure 3. Culture of BALF revealed Talaromyces marneffei, which shows temperature-dependent dimorphic character, growing as yeast-like cells at 37°C (A) and as a mycelium at temperatures between 25°C and 30°C (B); the cells produced red pigment at 25°C (C). BALF, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. and cryptococcal antigen agglutination test of PAS-negative cell content, the isolate was identi- BALF were also negative. Upon histological fied definitively as T. marneffei (Figure 3A–B). examination, chronic granulomatous inflamma- tion was found in the dorsal segment of RLL and On the other hand, considering that the patient’s the group 7 lymph node. Next generation HIV test was negative but the total counts of lym- sequencing (NGS) of the BALF confirmed lung phocytes and CD4+ were slightly decreased, infection with T. marneffei 2 days later (Table 1). together with her history since infancy, we could About 1 week later, culture of BALF and the not rule out congenital immunodeficiency. A biopsied tissue mass also showed the existence of blood gene detection test was taken, which indi- T. marneffei. Based on the pathogen’s tempera- cated a loss-of-function mutation in the gene ture-dependent dimorphic growth characteristic STAT3; however, there were no similar muta- and the production of soluble red pigment and tions in her parents (Table 2, Figure 4A). journals.sagepub.com/home/tar 3 Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory Disease 14 Table 2. Heterozygous missense mutation in exome regions of gene STAT3 was identified by Sanger sequencing (c.92G>A, p.R31Q). Patient and the family genetic detection Gene Inherit mode Mutation Patient Father Mother information STAT3 AD C.92G>A Heterozygous No mutation No mutation chr17- mutation p.R31Q The detail gene detection result Gene Transcribed Mutation ratio Hom/Het/Hem gnomAD ACMG version exon reference/ number mutation STAT3 NM_139276.2 49/45 (0.48) Het – Likely Exon2 pathogenic Pathogenic Likely pathogenic VUS Likely benign Benign STAT3, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3; AD, autosomal dominant; gnomAD, genome aggregation database; So far, the patient was diagnosed as having a STAT3 year by year. In a report of five Chinese non-HIV- mutation and lung infection with T. marneffei. infected children and teenagers with T. marneffei Considering her financial condition, she was pre- infection, it was shown that four had had chronic scribed oral itraconazole (200 mg,
