research-article20202020 TAR0010.1177/1753466620929225Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory DiseaseW Zhang, J Ye
KEYWORDS: marneffei, infection, mutation, patient, case, hiv-negative, patients, figure, diagnosis, marneffei infection, multiple, report, balf, gene, hangzhou


T. marneffei. infected children and teenagers with T. marneffei Considering her financial condition, she was pre- infection, it was shown that four had had chronic scribed oral itraconazole (200 mg, every 12 h) mucocutaneous candidiasis since infancy, and therapy on 13 January 2019 and later discharged. one had AD-HIES.5,6 Mutation in gene STAT3 Two repeated chest CT, on 26 January 2019 was identified by Sanger sequencing in our patient (Figure 1B) and 27 April 2019 (Figure 1C), (c.92G>A, p.R31Q); however, neither parent revealed distinct resolution of both lungs. The carried a similar mutation (Figure 4A–C). STAT3, symptoms of shortness of breath and cough were as a signal transducer and transcription factor, also obviously alleviated, and the patient contin- activates downstream of various of cytokine sig- ues to receive treatment (itraconazole, 200 mg per nals, including interferon-α, interleukin (IL)-6, day) and follow up at present. and IL-10, and others.7 It is reported that STAT3 mutation is usually related to AD-HIES. AD-HIES is a very rare primary immunodefi- Discussion and conclusion ciency, characterized by elevated serum IgE and This is a relatively rare case report of a T. marnef- eczema, recurrent skin infections, and sinopul- fei pulmonary infection in a HIV-negative patient monary infections.8 The classic triad of abscesses, with STAT3 mutation. The application of NGS pneumonia, and elevated IgE level was identified in BALF greatly assists the rapid diagnosis of in 77% of all patients and 85% of those older than T. marneffei infection. 8 years of age. At present, IgE is higher during childhood in some cases phenotypically, which Patients with some immunodeficiencies, such as may decrease, or even fall below normal, with AIDS, AD-HIES, hyper-IgM syndrome, certain age. The diagnostic criteria are not adequate for immunosuppressive therapies, and variety of our patients. A consistent immunophenotype transplants, are susceptible to T. marneffei as an in AD-HIES patients is impaired development of opportunistic fungus.4 Affected individuals often Th17 lymphocytes, due mainly to the key role of suffer quick progression to multiple organ failure cytokine signaling through STAT3 in their genera- and finally death. Infection by T. marneffei is rarely tion. In addition, a loss-of-function mutation in reported in non-HIV-infected hosts,3 but in clini- the STAT3 gene (STAT3-deficiency) is also fre- cal practice, the incidence rate of T. marneffei quently associated with susceptibility to fungal infection in HIV-negative individuals is increasing infections, including Talaromyces or aspergillosis, 4 journals.sagepub.com/home/tar W Zhang, J Ye
