research-article20202020 TAR0010.1177/1753466620929225Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory DiseaseW Zhang, J Ye
KEYWORDS: marneffei, infection, mutation, patient, case, hiv-negative, patients, figure, diagnosis, marneffei infection, multiple, report, balf, gene, hangzhou


practice, the incidence rate of T. marneffei quently associated with susceptibility to fungal infection in HIV-negative individuals is increasing infections, including Talaromyces or aspergillosis, 4 journals.sagepub.com/home/tar W Zhang, J Ye et al. Figure 4. (A) Family map and Sanger sequencing. (B) Illustration of the functional structure of STAT3: p.R31Q in red and other known pathogenic, or likely pathogenic mutations, in black. (C) The labeling of p.R31Q on the structure of STAT3 modeled by the I-TASSER algorithm. STAT3, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3. although its pathogenesis remains largely unknown. in a timely manner, it can be life-threatening. STAT3-deficient patients showed a defective Whether in HIV-positive or HIV-negative tion of cytokines, including IFN-γ, IL-17, and The most common symptoms are cough, fever, IL-22,9 which could be the reason for their sus- anemia, weight loss, malaise, hepatosplenomeg- ceptibility to fungal infection in HIV-negative aly, and cutaneous lesions, but nonspecific and patients. Regrettably, cytokines were not detected with little significance for differential diagnosis. perspective, the patient fails to meet the recent occurring in 64% of HIV-infected patients and diagnostic criteria of HIES. To conclude, a loss- 75% of non-HIV-infected patients.10 In this case, of-function mutation in STAT3 gene is a rare pri- dyspnea was the main complaint along with mary deficiency, and our study was limited in recurrent cough; no other organs and systems some aspects. We are not sure how big a role it seem to be involved. plays in this case, but it indicates that STAT3- deficiency indeed increases susceptibility to Similarly in laboratory tests, there is no significant microbial infections of lungs, which is the direc- difference between HIV-negative and HIV-positive tion we are taking for our further research. patients.10 T. marneffei is well known to be the only temperature-dependent dimorphic pathogen in T. marneffei can lead to various kinds of infections Penicillium, growing as a mycelium at tempera- involving multiple organs or systems, including tures 25°C–30°C with the generation of a soluble the lungs, blood, skin, central nervous system, red pigment, and as yeast-like cells at 37°C. Only and bone marrow, so if not diagnosed or treated the yeast phase has pathogenicity. In addition, a journals.sagepub.com/home/tar 5 Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory Disease 14 mulberry-shaped cell mass, sausage-shaped cells, relatively low in recent years; however, it has and a transverse wall are the three main morpho- shown a significant increase,16 even in some logical characteristics of T. marneffei growth
