research-article20202020 TAR0010.1177/1753466620929225Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory DiseaseW Zhang, J Ye
KEYWORDS: marneffei, infection, mutation, patient, case, hiv-negative, patients, figure, diagnosis, marneffei infection, multiple, report, balf, gene, hangzhou


relatively low in recent years; however, it has and a transverse wall are the three main morpho- shown a significant increase,16 even in some logical characteristics of T. marneffei growth in tis- healthy hosts.17Patients who are congenitally sue,11 which were also found in our case. immunocompromised by a STAT3 mutation may be among potential hosts. Finally, rapid diagnosis T. marneffei infection depended highly on tissue ing the prognosis. The successful application of culture and histopathologic results, which can be NGS can play an important role in rapid diagno- confined to the low positive rate and can be time- sis, revealing the potential value of this technique consuming, respectively, especially as fungal cul- in rapid etiological diagnosis. Further studies are tures usually take about 3–7 days. We performed required to explore the pathogenesis and mecha- NGS on the patient’s BALF, which detected nisms of infection in HIV-negative patients with numerous nucleotide sequence reads correspond- STAT3 mutation infected with T. marneffei. ing to T. marneffei 2 days later, and thus resulted in the timely diagnosis and treatment of T. marn- Acknowledgements effei pulmonary infection. We thank our collaborators who helped with the study. All the authors have approved the final ver- The successful application of NGS assisted the sion of the article, including the authorship list. rapid diagnosis of T. marneffei infection, providing a powerful skill in clinical practice and revealing Author contribution(s) the potential value of this procedure in rapid Wei Zhang: Conceptualization; Investigation; etiological diagnosis.12 Writing-original draft; Writing-review & editing. Jian Ye: Conceptualization; Methodology; It is well known that amphotericin B, itraconazole, Project administration; Writing-review & editing. voriconazole, fluconazole, and terbinafine are the antifungal drugs most commonly used for therapy. Chenhui Qiu: Data curation; Methodology; In addition, itraconazole and amphotericin B are Writing-original draft. Limin Wang: Methodology; Project administra- whereas the clinical response to fluconazole is rela- tion; Writing-review & editing. tively poor.13 Current guidelines for the therapy of T. marneffei infection recommend amphotericin B Weizhong Jin: Formal analysis; Writing-original treatment for 2 weeks, then adequate oral itracona- draft. zole for 10 weeks, and finally secondary prophy- Chunming Jiang: Methodology; Supervision; laxis.14 From our case, we found that, following Writing-review & editing. the application of oral itraconazole (200 mg, every 12 h) for 3 months, the patient recovered satisfac- Lihui Xu: Investigation; Writing-original draft. torily and lesions absorbed obviously on CT Jianping Xu: Investigation; Resources; Writing- scans. To date, she
