research-article20202020 TAR0010.1177/1753466620929225Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory DiseaseW Zhang, J Ye
KEYWORDS: marneffei, infection, mutation, patient, case, hiv-negative, patients, figure, diagnosis, marneffei infection, multiple, report, balf, gene, hangzhou


12 h) for 3 months, the patient recovered satisfac- Lihui Xu: Investigation; Writing-original draft. torily and lesions absorbed obviously on CT Jianping Xu: Investigation; Resources; Writing- scans. To date, she continues to receive the appli- original draft. cation of itraconazole (200 mg per day) and fol- low up until the present. The general maintenance Yue Li: Formal analysis; Software; Writing- dose lasts for 1 year, depending on the efficacy or original draft. whether the risk factors can be terminated or not. Liusheng Wang: Data curation; Formal analy- However, despite standard treatment strategy, sis; Software; Writing-review & editing. most infected individuals experience recurrence several months or even years later. Earlier research Hualiang Jin: Methodology; Software; Writing- indicated that mortality in HIV-negative individu- review & editing. als was higher than in HIV-positive individuals,10 which may be related partly to delayed diagnosis Availability of data and materials because of the lack of an effective and rapid diag- The sequencing data supporting our findings is nosis technique.15 contained within the manuscript and additional supporting files. The datasets used and/or ana- In conclusion, the incidence of T. marneffei infec- lysed during the study are also available from the tion in non-HIV-infected patients has been corresponding author on reasonable request. 6 journals.sagepub.com/home/tar W Zhang, J Ye et al. Conflict of interest statement acquired immunodeficiency due to autoantibody The authors declare that there is no conflict of against gamma interferon. Clin Vaccine Immunol interest. 2010; 17: 1132–1138. 5. Lee Pamela PW, Mao HW, Yang WL, et al. Consent to publish Penicillium marneffei infection and impaired Written informed consent was obtained from the IFN-γ immunity in humans with autosomal- patient for publication of this case report and all dominant gain-of-phosphorylation STAT1 accompanying images. mutations. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2014; 133: 894–896. Ethics approval and consent to participate 6. Van de Veerdonk FL, Plantinga TS, Hoischen A, We identified this patient during routine clinical et al. STAT1 mutations in autosomal dominant practice and obtained consent to take samples of chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis. N Eng J Med venous blood and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid 2011; 365: 54–61. after elaborate information. Written informed 7. O’Shea JJ, Holland SM and Staudt LM. JAKs consent was obtained from the patient for publi- and STATs in immunity, immunodeficiency, and cation of this case report and all accompanying cancer. N Engl J Med 2013; 368: 161–170. images. Involvement of the ethical committee of STAT3 mutation in
