Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


Unintentional Injuries Robyn Norton, Adnan A. Hyder, David Bishai, and Margie Peden This chapter examines the issue of unintentional injuries and accounting for around 7 percent of all deaths in those coun- focuses on a selected number of cause-specific unintentional tries. Similarly, more than 90 percent of DALYs that were injuries. Injuries have traditionally been defined as damage attributed to unintentional injuries occurred in LMICs, toaperson caused by an acute transfer ofenergy (mechanical, accounting for about 8 percent ofall DALYs in those countries. thermal, electrical, chemical, or radiation) or by the sudden Injury death rates per 100,000 population were higher in absence of heat or oxygen. Unintentional injuries consist of LMICs (62 per 100,000) than globally (57 per 100,000). that subset of injuries for which there is no evidence of pre- Males accounted for almost two-thirds ofthe deaths attrib- determined intent. The cause-specific unintentional injuries uted to unintentional injuries in LMICs in 2001,with rates of examined here include those that the World Health both injury death and DALY losses higher among males than Organization (WHO) routinely analyzes and publishes data on females (table 39.1).Compared with other age groups,young and that individually account for the greatest unintentional people age 15 to 29 accounted for the largest proportion of injury burden in terms ofmortality and disability-adjusted life deaths from unintentional injuries in LMICs (figure 39.2). years (DALYs).These include road traffic injuries (RTIs),poi- RTIs accounted for the greatest burden of deaths from sonings,falls,burns,and drowning(figure 39.1). unintentionalinjuriesinLMICsin2001,orabout34percent of the total burden, and the greatest burden of DALYs from unintentional injuries in LMICs in 2001, accounting for BURDEN AND CAUSES OF UNINTENTIONAL 28percentoftheburden(figure39.1).Whereasyoungpeople age15to29yearsaccountedforthehighestproportionof all INJURIES unintentional injuries, those age 45 to 59 accounted for the This section provides a briefoutline ofthe burden ofuninten- highest proportion of injuries from poisonings, while those tional injuries and then reviews the available evidence about age70to79accountedforthehighestproportionof injuries known and potential causes ofsuch injuries. fromfalls(figure39.2). Economic Burden ofUnintentional Injuries. Estimates ofthe Burden of Unintentional Injuries burden ofunintentional injuries as measured in terms ofeco- Worldwide, unintentional injuries accounted for more than nomic costs are almost nonexistent.The best estimates avail- 3.5million deaths in 2001,or about 6 percent ofall deaths and able are for RTIs. Using road crash costs from 21 developed 66 percent ofall injury deaths.Unintentional injuries were also and developing countries,the Transport Research Laboratory responsible for more than 113 million DALYs in 2001,or about Ltd. finds that the average annual cost
