Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


to bodies ofwater.Ahmed,Rahman, proportionofinjuriesinyoungchildrencomparedwithother and van Ginneken’s (1999) study in Bangladesh shows that the agegroups(JieandRen1992;E.H.Liuandothers1998). risk of drowning increased with the age of the mother and Rural location appears to be a consistent risk factor for increased much more sharply the larger the number ofchildren burn-related injuries (Courtright, Haile, and Kohls 1993; in the family.Celis’s (1997) case-control study in Mexico finds Zhu, Yang and Meng 1988), as is the home (Delgado and that the risk ofdrowning associated with having a well at home others 2002; Forjuoh, Guyer, and Smith 1995; E. H. Liu and was almost seven times that for children in homes without a others1998). well. Unintentional Injuries | 741 INTERVENTIONS obvious.Other interventions,particularly those that may have modest but important benefits, may require rigorous evalua- Interventions to prevent unintentional injuries have tradition- tion methods. ally been considered in terms of the three E’s—education, Evidence of the effectiveness of interventions in LMICs,as enforcement,and engineering—and within the framework of opposed to HICs, is also relatively uncommon.Although the the Haddon matrix. That is, interventions are considered proven efficacy ofsome interventions in HICs does not require interms of preventing the occurrence of the injury,minimiz- replication in LMICs—for example, the use of motorcycle ing the severity of injury at the time of the injury,and mini- helmets—strategies that may be effective in increasing the rates mizing the severity ofinjury following the injury event. ofhelmet wearing in HICs may not necessarily be appropriate Although randomized controlled trials are the gold standard in LMICs. Thus, WHO and others increasingly endorse for assessing the effectiveness ofinjury interventions,such tri- tailoring interventions found to be effective in HICs to LMICs, als are still relatively rare in relation to injuries,and in many followed by rigorous evaluation (Peden and others 2004). cases such trials may be impractical to implement. Studies Table 39.3 provides a summary of promising and recom- comparing the incidence of injury before and after the imple- mended interventions, as well as interventions that have mentation of an intervention, sometimes with reference to a specifically been shown to be effective in LMICs. control population in which the intervention has not been introduced, more commonly provide the only evidence of RTIs effectiveness.In some areas,findings from observational stud- ies,such as case-control studies,provide the best available evi- ManyworkingtoreduceRTIsusethe“saferroads,safervehi- dence. However, randomized controlled trials are clearly not cles,saferpeople,andsafersystems”motto.Arecentaugmenta- needed for some interventions because their benefits are tionofthismottoderivesfromtherecognitionoftheimportant Table 39.3 Promising and Effective Interventions for
