Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


smoke alarms Separating cooking areas from living areas Locating cooking surfaces at heights Reducing the storage of flammable substances in households Supervising children more effectively Introducing, monitoring, and enforcing standards and codes for fire-resistant garments Scald-related injuries Separating cooking areas from play areas Improving the design of cooking vessels Fire- and scald-related injuries Increasing awareness of burns prevention Providing first-aid education Drowning Limiting exposure to bodies of water close to dwellings, such as by fencing Providing learn-to-swim programs Providing education about risks for drowning Increasing supervision and providing lifeguards at recreational facilities Equipping boats with flotation devices and ensuring their use Legislating and enforcing rules about the numbers of individuals carried on boats Having trained and responsive coast guard services Source: Authors. roleofappropriatetransportandland-usepoliciesinmanaging Safer Roads. Intervention strategies focusing on safer roads exposuretotheriskofanRTI(Pedenandothers2004). shouldincorporatesafetyawarenessinplanningroadnetworks, Managing exposure to risk involves strategies aimed at safetyfeaturesinroaddesign,andremedialactionforhigh-risk reducing motor vehicle traffic, encouraging the use of safer crash sites. HICs have adopted many of these strategies, and modes oftravel,and minimizing exposure to high-risk scenar- thoughtheyhavenotbeenexaminedinrigorouslycontrolled ios, as outlined in greater detail in table 39.3. Evidence from studies, such strategies form the basis of best-practice guide- Malaysia shows that increasing the legal age of motorcyclists lines and manuals now being used in LMICs (Ross and others from 16 to 18 has been beneficial (Norghani and others 1998), 1991). but evidence ofthe effectiveness ofmany ofthe other strategies Traffic calming measures are among the strategies recom- is not yet available for LMICs. mended for incorporating safety features into road design. Unintentional Injuries | 743 Although evidence from randomized controlled trials is not Poisonings yetavailable (Bunn and others 2003),a before-and-after study The prevention ofunintentional poisonings includes consider- conducted in Ghana suggested that speed bumps were effective ation of both occupational and nonoccupational poisonings; in reducing traffic injuries, especially pedestrian injuries however, chapter 60 provides a fuller discussion of effective (Afukaar,Antwi,and Ofosu-Amah 2003).A recent summary of interventions in relation to work-related poisonings, so these research findings also suggests that automated speed enforce- are not discussed here. ment virtually eliminates speeding (ICF Consulting Ltd. and Suggested interventions to reduce exposure to nonoccupa- Imperial College Centre for Transport Studies 2003). tional poisonings include better storage of poisons in terms ofboth the location and the nature ofthe storage vessels used. Safer Vehicles. Strategies focusing on safer vehicles include Specific interventions include storing poisons outside the improving the visibility ofvehicles,incorporating crash protec- home and above
