Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


the nature ofthe storage vessels used. Safer Vehicles. Strategies focusing on safer vehicles include Specific interventions include storing poisons outside the improving the visibility ofvehicles,incorporating crash protec- home and above children’s head height and reducing the use tive design into vehicles,and promoting further development of secondhand household containers—for example soda of “intelligent” vehicles. However, in LMICs, strategies that bottles—along with introducing and enforcing legislation to simply ensure regular maintenance ofolder vehicles or removal prohibit the sale of poisons in such containers (Nhachi and ofvehicles in poor condition from the roads,as well as vehicle Kasilo 1994). licensing and inspection,have the potential to be cost-effective Theefficacyofchild-resistantcontainersinpreventingaccess (Peden and others 2004). topoisonshasbeendemonstrated,anddatafromacontrolled Meta-analyses of the effects of automatic daytime running before-and-afterstudyinSouthAfricasuggestthatfreedistri- lights on cars consistently show that they reduce road crashes butionofchild-resistantcontainersisahighlyeffectivemeansof (Elvik and Vaa 2004).Studies in both Malaysia and Singapore preventingpoisoninginchildren(Krugandothers1994). show similar positive effects for daytime running lights on motorcycles (Radin Umar,Mackay,and Hills 1996;Yuan 2000). Although the fitting of seat belts—probably the most Fall-Related Injuries well-known and effective safer vehicle strategy—is covered by Interventions proven effective for preventing falls by older peo- technical standards worldwide and is mandatory in most coun- ple in HICs include muscle strengthening and balance retrain- tries,anecdotal evidence suggests that vehicles in many LMICs ing that is individually prescribed at home by a trained health lack functioning seat belts . professional; tai chi group exercise; home hazard assessment and modification that is professionally prescribed for older Safer People. Intervention strategies aimed at improving road people with a history of falling; and multidisciplinary,multi- user behavior are increasingly focusing on the introduction factorial health and environmental risk factor screening and and enforcement ofrelevant legislation rather than on educa- intervention programs, both for community-dwelling older tional efforts. For example, Poli de Figueiredo and others’ people in general and for older people with known risk factors (2001) research in Brazil indicates that increasing fines and (Chang and others 2004). suspending drivers’ licenses immediately reduced RTIs and In relation to fall-related injuries among young children, deaths. other than general recommendations about increased supervi- A large body of research,although little of it conducted in sion of children and the importance of height reductions and LMICs,shows that setting and enforcing speed limits reduces appropriate ground surfacing to prevent playground injuries, RTIs by up to 34 percent.It also shows that RTIs are reduced only one intervention provides evidence of effectiveness that in varying magnitudes by
