Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


ground surfacing to prevent playground injuries, RTIs by up to 34 percent.It also shows that RTIs are reduced only one intervention provides evidence of effectiveness that in varying magnitudes by setting and enforcing legal blood may be relevant for LMICs. The Children Can’t Fly Program alcohol limits and minimum drinking-age laws,using alcohol has four major components, which include surveillance and checkpoints, and running mass media campaigns aimed at follow-up, media campaigns, community education, and the reducing drinking and driving (Peden and others 2004). provision of free, easily installed window guards to families The introduction and enforcement of mandatory seat belt with young children living in high-risk areas (Spiegel and and child restraint laws reduces occupant deaths and injuries Lindaman 1977).The program has been shown to be effective by up to 25 percent; however,such laws have not been intro- in reducing falls in low-income areas. duced in all LMICs (Peden and others 2004). Both bicycle and motorcycle helmets reduce head injuries among riders by up to 85 percent.Though education may be Burn-Related Injuries effective in increasing helmet use, the effect is greater when combined with legislation and enforcement,as demonstrated Evidence of the effectiveness of interventions to prevent fire- in Malaysia and Thailand (Ichikawa, Chadbunchachai, and related injuries is limited.A randomized controlled trial of a Marui 2003;Supramaniam,Belle,and Sung 1984). smokedetectorgiveawayprogramininnerLondonwasunable 744 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robyn Norton, Adnan A. Hyder, David Bishai, and others toshowevidenceoftheprogram’seffectivenessontheincidence (Peden and others 2004).Some data are also starting to emerge offiresandfire-relatedinjuries(DiGuiseppiandothers2002). from HICs with respect to the cost-effectiveness offall-related However, a more recent study suggests that installation pro- injury prevention programs for older people.However,data on grams may be more effective in increasing the use of these either the costs or the cost-effectiveness ofinterventions to pre- alarmsthangiveawayprogramsalone(Harveyandothers2004). vent poisonings,burns,or drownings are limited. Interventions that have been proposed but whose effective- Cost-effectiveness studies done in HICs can only be sugges- ness has not yet been proven include separating cooking areas tive for LMICs,because the costs of property losses,disability, from living areas (including efforts to reduce the use ofindoor and medical care are so vastly different. Furthermore, basic fires for cooking),ensuring that cooking surfaces are at heights, efficacy is not always guaranteed when a control strategy that reducing the storage of flammable substances in households, worked in a modern city is exported to a poor LMIC village. andsupervisingyoungchildrenmoreeffectively(Forjuoh2004). Consequently, the ability to extrapolate from high-income to
