Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


DALYs averted at a 6 percent discount rate. The relating to RTIs and the capacity for preventing RTIs in each cost-effectiveness is US$61 (US$16,000/263) per DALY at a country. 3percentdiscountrateorUS$96(US$16,000/166)perDALY • Prepare a national road safety strategy and plan ofaction. ata6percentdiscountrate. • Allocate financial and human resources to address the problem. • Implement specific actions to prevent crashes, minimize Summary injuries and their consequences, and evaluate the effect of Estimated costs per DALY from the interventions considered those actions. here range from negative (that is, savings) to a few hundred • Support the development ofnational capacity and interna- U.S.dollars per DALY.The order ofmagnitude ofthe costs per tional cooperation. DALY averted using these injury countermeasures suggests that they could be categorized as highly cost-effective (Murray and Although few data are available to show the levels ofinvest- others 2000). Our estimates of intervention costs neglect the ment in other areas of unintentional injury prevention,those potential savings from prevented medical spending but still levels are no doubt considerably lower than for RTIs. With appear quite promising.Although our estimates provide some increases in the proportions and numbers of older people in indicative information about the economic properties ofcoun- many LMICs, the burden of fall-related injuries is likely to terinjury interventions, these findings point primarily to the increase significantly in the coming years.Recognition of the lackofinformationabouttheglobaleconomicburdenofinjury changing demographics in countries such as China, Mexico, that could enable more comprehensive estimates. and Thailand plus a growing body of evidence on effective 748 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robyn Norton, Adnan A. Hyder, David Bishai, and others Box 39.1 Implementation: Case Study of RTIs Bishai and others (2003) quantify the magnitude of gov- cient investment to conflicts between government min- ernment investment in road safety and the extent ofRTIs istries,inefficient civil services,and corruption rather than in Pakistan and Uganda.They estimate that Pakistan spent to a lack ofknowledge about possible road crash counter- $0.07 per capita,or 0.015 percent ofgross domestic prod- measures . uct (GDP) per capita, on road safety in 1998 and that RTIs have an inverted U-shaped relationship to eco- Uganda spent $0.09 per capita,or 0.02 percent ofGDP per nomic development—injuries rise early during develop- capita.This type ofevidence stands in stark contrast with ment, then plateau with investments in road safety, and the high burden ofRTIs in these countries. then fall as appropriate interventions succeed (vanBeeck, These findings occur in the context ofpublic
