Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


ment, then plateau with investments in road safety, and the high burden ofRTIs in these countries. then fall as appropriate interventions succeed (vanBeeck, These findings occur in the context ofpublic expendi- Borsboom,and Mackenbach 2000).This biphasic pattern ture on health of 1.8 percent of GDP by Pakistan and is known as a Kuznets curve. Attempts to estimate a 1.6 percent by Uganda . Per capita health Kuznets curve for road fatalities suggest that the inflection spending by households in Uganda was $7.70 in 1995/96, point at which fatalities begin to decline occurs at GDP per $4.84 per capita in 1997/98 . Public forthcoming;Kopits and Cropper 2005).This relationship, spending on road safety amounts to about 1 percent of although based on historical records from HICs, has an public spending on health in each country.It is equivalent important lesson for LMICs: they do not need to experi- to 0.2 percent of military spending in Pakistan and ence massive death and disability from RTIs provided that 1.1percent ofUganda’s military budget. they undertake safety investments now.Waiting for overall A review of road safety initiatives in Benin, Côte economic development before implementing specific d’Ivoire, Kenya, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe found similar interventions will result in the needless loss of millions of underinvestment in road safety and attributes this insuffi- lives. Note:All dollars in box 39.1 are 1998 international dollars. interventions to prevent falls suggest that investments in this less than 10 percent was spent on addressing problems related area could lead to significant benefits. Similarly, increasing to 90 percent ofthe world’s population.Analyses revealed that recognition of the significance of the burden of drowning in RTIs were a highly neglected area for investment compared children is leading to growing awareness of the need to invest with the burden of disease RTIs represented as measured in in that area. However, the absence of any effective evidence- U.S.dollars per DALY.As a result,increasing the level ofinvest- based interventions may be a barrier to further investment, ment for research and development (R&D) on RTIs and other suggesting that research into the burden of drowning must be injuries should be a focus of global advocacy efforts, and a priority. investment is critical for promoting an R&D agenda on injuries Investment in prevention and control activities in other in LMICs. areas of unintentional injuries is minimal in most LMICs,in Developing and prioritizing a global R&D agenda for unin- large part because the burden ofthose
