Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


control activities in other in LMICs. areas of unintentional injuries is minimal in most LMICs,in Developing and prioritizing a global R&D agenda for unin- large part because the burden ofthose injuries is unrecognized tentional injuries,though,is challenging,and such an exercise and because evidence of effective interventions is lacking. may be more useful at national or large subnational levels. Therefore,there is clearly a need to consider the development, However, a number of issues requiring R&D are likely to be implementation, and evaluation of prevention strategies in common across a range ofLMICs. combination, so that effective interventions can be identified Epidemiological research to describe the existing burden, and promulgated and so that ineffective interventions can be causes, and distribution of unintentional injuries in LMICs identified and discarded. is still needed.Often the data are most limited for areas with the greatest potential burden of injuries.Assessing the loss of RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA how, and under what specific circumstances—is thus a continuing research agenda for LMICs.Problems of underre- The Global Forum for Health Research (2002) estimates that of porting and other biases in available data also need to be Unintentional Injuries | 749 The lack ofintervention research in LMICs is a huge gap in a major health problem.They cause preventable loss oflife and existing and new interventions need to be modified,adapted, developing countries and donor organizations. and tested in those specific settings. Three broad domains should be the foci ofintervention research: CONCLUSIONS: PROMISES AND PITFALLS • R&D to enhance the efficiency ofcurrently available effica- Unintentional injuries are an important contributor to global cious interventions.For example,increasing the use ofhel- death and disability burdens, especially in LMICs. However, mets would prevent motorcycle injuries in East Asia. the significance of the burden is not matched by substantive • R&D to enhance the cost-effectiveness ofinterventions that knowledge about risk factors or effective interventions in are currently not being implemented or that could be used LMICs.Nevertheless,the models outlined in this chapter indi- more widely.For example,seat belts and child restraints are cate that several interventions for preventing unintentional known effective interventions,and reducing the cost ofsuch injuries are highly cost-effective and in some cases could result interventions might enhance their wide-scale implementa- in significant cost savings. tion in LMICs. Recent evidence shows that public efforts in injury control, • R&D to develop new interventions for unintentional such as traffic safety,are poorly funded in developing countries injuries and to respond to that proportion
