Chapter
KEYWORDS: injuries, lmics, interventions, percent, unintentional, risk, injury, road, unintentional injuries, factors, countries, effective, costs, intervention, cost


the limited priority. Individuals need to be trained and institutions sup- but growing knowledge that low-cost, effective interventions ported and empowered to conduct quality scientific research in exist, for governments not to intervene would be unethical. their own countries and on issues relevant to their locations, Even though institutional obstacles are formidable in develop- which would then be used within their countries. This ing countries, governments routinely overcome them to approach involves paying attention to the issue of strengthen- address other perceived threats to public well-being—such as ing the capacity for research,a major cross-cutting theme for crime,terrorism,and war—that disrupt fewer lives than unin- the health sector in the developing world. tentional injuries.The real enigma is that such a profound loss Funding is and always will be a limiting factor for research; oflife can take place each year in LMICs without an outcry that however, the mismatch between the burden of injuries and would trigger sustained and effective political commitment by R&D investments can be corrected.Unintentional injuries are governments and civil society. 750 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Robyn Norton, Adnan A. Hyder, David Bishai, and others ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Carlini-Cotrim, B., and A. A. da Matta Chasin. 2000. “Blood Alcohol Content and Death from Fatal Injury:A Study in Metropolitan Area of We would like to acknowledge the assistance of Kristina São Paulo,Brazil.”Journal ofPsychoactive Drugs 32 (3):269–75. Celis, A. 1997. “Home Drowning among Preschool Age Mexican McDaid and Kylie Monro of the George Institute for Children.”Injury Prevention 3 (4):252–56. International Health in preparing this chapter.We would also Chan,K.Y.,O.Hairol,H.Imtiaz,M.Zailani,S.Kunar,S.Somasundaram, like to acknowledge useful comments on the initial draft ofthe and others.2002.“A Review ofBurns Patients Admitted to the Burns chapter provided by David Sleet of the Centers for Disease Unit ofHospital Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia.”Medical Journal of Control and Prevention,National Center for Injury Prevention Malaysia 57 (4):418–25. Chang,J.T.,S.C.Morton,L.Z.Rubinstein,W.A.Mojica,M.Maglione,M.J. and Control,and by Tony Bliss ofthe World Bank. Suttorp,andothers.2004.“InterventionsforthePreventionofFallsin Older Adults: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomised ClinicalTrials.”BritishMedicalJournal328(7441):653–54. Chatsantiprapa, K, J. Chokkanapitak, and N. Pinpradit. 2001. “Host
