Definitions, Classification, and Epidemiology of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, body, weight, health, women, overweight, fat, men, risk, rates, bmi, adults, prevalence, disease


ABSTRACT Recent research has established the physiology of weight regulation, the pathophysiology that leads to unwanted weight gain with establishment of a higher body-weight set point, and the defense of the overweight and obese state even when reasonable attempts in lifestyle improvement are made. This knowledge has informed our approach to obesity as a chronic disease. The assessment of adiposity risk for the foreseeable future will continue to rely on cost-effective and easily available measures of height, weight, and waist circumference. This risk assessment then informs implementation of appropriate treatment plans and weight management goals. Within the United States, prevalence rates for generalized obesity (BMI > 30 kg/m 2 ), extreme obesity (BMI > 40 kg/m 2 ), and central obesity continue to rise in children and adults with peak obesity rates occurring in the 5 th -6 th decades. Women may have equal or greater obesity rates than men depending on race, but less central obesity than men. Obesity disproportionately affects people by race and ethnicity, with the highest prevalence rates reported in Black women and Hispanic men and women. Increasing obesity rates in youth (ages 2-19 years) are especially concerning. This trend will likely continue to fuel the global obesity epidemic for decades to come, worsening population health, creating infrastructural challenges as countries attempt to meet the additional health-care demands, and greatly increasing health-care expenditures world-wide. To meet this challenge, societal and economic innovations will be necessary that focus on strategies to prevent further increases in overweight and obesity rates. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Unwanted weight gain leading to overweight and obesity has become a significant driver of the global rise in chronic, non-communicable diseases and is itself now considered a chronic disease. Because of the psychological and social stigmata that accompany developing overweight and obesity, those affected by these conditions are also vulnerable to discrimination in their personal and work lives, low self-esteem, and depression ( 1 ). These medical and psychological sequelae of obesity contribute to a major share of health-care expenditures and generate additional economic costs through loss of worker productivity, increased disability, and premature loss of life ( 2 - 4 ). The recognition that being overweight or having obesity is a chronic disease and not simply due to poor self-control or a lack of will power comes from the
