Definitions, Classification, and Epidemiology of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, body, weight, health, women, overweight, fat, men, risk, rates, bmi, adults, prevalence, disease


as improvements or resolution of co-morbid conditions, following metabolic-bariatric procedures such as laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy and gastric bypass ( 11 , 12 ). Subsequent chapters in this section of Endotext will delve more deeply into these determinants and scientific advances, providing a greater breadth of information regarding mechanisms, clinical manifestations, treatment options, and prevention strategies for those with overweight or obesity. DEFINITION OF OVERWEIGHT AND OBESITY Overweight and obesity occur when excess fat accumulation (globally, regionally, and in organs as ectopic lipids) increases risk for adverse health outcomes . Like other chronic diseases, this definition does not require manifistation of an obesity-related complication, simply that the risk for one is increased. This allows for implementation of weight management strategies targeting treatment and prevention of these related conditions. It is important to point out that thresholds of excess adiposity can occur at different body weights and fat distributions depending on the person or population being referenced. Ideally, an obesity classification system would be based on a practical measurement widely available to providers regardless of their setting, would accurately predict health risk (prognosis), and could be used to assign treatment stategies and goals. The most accurate measures of body fat adiposity such as underwater weighing, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scanning, computed tomograpy (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are impractical for use in everyday clinical encounters. Estimates of body fat, including body mass index (BMI, calculated by dividing the body weight in kilograms by height in meters squared) and waist circumference, have limitations compared to these imaging methods, but still provide relevant information and are easily obtained in a variety of practice settings. It is worth pointing out two important caveats regarding cuurent thresholds used to diagnose overweight and obesity. The first is that although we favor the assignement of specific BMI cut-offs and increasing risk ( Table 1 ), relationships between body weight or fat distribution and conditions that impair health actually represent a continum. For example, increased risk for type 2 diabetes and premature mortality occur well below a BMI of 30 kg/m 2 (the threshold to define obesity in populations of European extraction) ( 13 ). It is in these earlier stages that preventative strategies to limit further weight gain and/or allow weight loss will have their greatest health benefits. The second is that historic relationships between increasing BMI thresholds and the precense and severity of co-morbidities have been
