Definitions, Classification, and Epidemiology of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, body, weight, health, women, overweight, fat, men, risk, rates, bmi, adults, prevalence, disease


gain and/or allow weight loss will have their greatest health benefits. The second is that historic relationships between increasing BMI thresholds and the precense and severity of co-morbidities have been disrupted as better treatments for obesity-complications become available. For example, in the past several decades, atherosclerotic cardiovascular (ASCVD) mortality has steadily declined in the US population ( 14 ) even as obesity rates have risen (see below). Although it is generally accepted that this decline in ASCVD deaths is due to better care outside the hospital during a coronary event (e.g., better coordination of “first responders” services such as ambulances and more widespread use by the public of cardiopulmonary resusitation and defibrillator units), advances in intensive care, smoking cessation, and in the office (increased use of aspirin, statins, PCSK9 inhibitors, and blood pressure medications) ( 15 ), these data have also been cited to support the claim that being overweight might actually protect against heart disease ( 16 ). In this regard, updated epidemiological data on the health outcomes related to being overweight or having obesity should include not just data on morbidity and mortality, but also health care metrics such as utilization and costs, medications used, and the number of treatment-related procedures performed. CLASSIFICATION OF OVERWEIGHT, OBESITY, AND CENTRAL OBESITY Fat Mass and Percent Body Fat Fat mass can be directly measured by one of several imaging modalities, including DEXA, CT, and MRI, but these systems are impractical and cost prohibitive for general clinical use. Instead, they are mostly used for research. Fat mass can be measured indirectly using water (underwater weighing) or air displacement (BODPOD), or bioimpedance analysis (BIA). Each of these methods estimates the proportion of fat or non-fat mass and allows calcutation of percent body fat. Of these, BODPOD and BIA are often offered through fitness centers and clinics run by obesity medicine specialists. However, their general use in the care of patients who are overweight and with obesity is still limited. Interpretation of results from these procedures may be confounded by common conditions that accompany obesity, especially when fluid status is altered such as in congenstive heart failure, liver disease, or chronic kidney disease. Also, ranges for normal and abnormal are not well established for these methods and, in practical terms, knowing them will not change current recommendations to help patients achieve sustained weight loss. Body Mass Index Body mass index allows comparison of weights
