Definitions, Classification, and Epidemiology of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, body, weight, health, women, overweight, fat, men, risk, rates, bmi, adults, prevalence, disease


these methods and, in practical terms, knowing them will not change current recommendations to help patients achieve sustained weight loss. Body Mass Index Body mass index allows comparison of weights independently of stature across populations. Except in persons who have increased lean weight as a result of intense exercise or resistance training (e.g., bodybuilders), BMI correlates well with percentage of body fat, although this relationship is independently influenced by sex, age, and race ( 17 ). This is especially true for South Asians in whom evidence suggests that BMI-adjusted percent body fat is greater than other populations ( 18 ). In the United States, data from the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II) were used to define obesity in adults as a BMI of 27.3 kg/m 2 or more for women and a BMI of 27.8 kg/m 2 or more for men ( 19 ). These definitions were based on the gender-specific 85 th percentile values of BMI for persons 20 to 29 years of age. In 1998, however, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Expert Panel on the Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults adopted the World Health Organization (WHO) classification for overweight and obesity ( Table 1 ) ( 20 ). The WHO classification, which predominantly applied to people of European ancestry, assigns increasing risk for comorbid conditions—including hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular disease—to persons with higher a BMI relative to persons of normal weight (BMI of 18.5 - 25 kg/m 2 ) ( Table 1 ). However, Asian populations are known to be at increased risk for diabetes and hypertension at lower BMI ranges than those for non-Asian groups due largely to predominance of central fat distribution and higer percentage fat mass (see below). Consequently, the WHO has suggested lower cutoff points for consideration of therapeutic intervention in Asians: a BMI of 18.5 to 23 kg/m 2 represents acceptable risk, 23 to 27.5 kg/m 2 confers increased risk, and 27.5 kg/m 2 or higher represents high risk ( 21 , 22 ). Table 1 Classification of Overweight and Obesity by BMI, Waist Circumference, and Associated Disease Risk. Adapted from reference ( 20 ). View in own window BMI (kg/m 2 ) Obesity Class Disease Risk* (Relative to Normal Weight and Waist Circumference) Men ≤40 inches (≤ 102 cm) Women ≤ 35 inches (≤ 88 cm) > 40 in
