Definitions, Classification, and Epidemiology of Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, body, weight, health, women, overweight, fat, men, risk, rates, bmi, adults, prevalence, disease


These forces have been ongoing in the US and other Western countries for many decards but are being experienced by many developing countries on a compressed timescale. Greater worker productivity in advancing economies means more time spent in sedentary work (less in manual labor) and less time spent in leisure activity. Greater wealth allows the purchase of televisions, cars, processed foods, and more meals eaten out of the house, all of which have been associated with greater rates of obesity in children and adults. More details and greater discussion of these issues can be found in Endotext Chapters on Non-excercise Activity Thermogenesis ( 58 ) and Obesity and the Environment ( 9 ). Regardless of the causes, these trends in global weight gain and obesity are quickly creating a tremendous burden on health-care systems and cost to countries attempting to respond to the increased treatment demands ( 59 ). They are also feuling a rise in global morbity and mortality for chronic (non-communicable) diseases, especially for cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus, and especially in Asian and South Asian populations where rates of type 2 diabetes are currently exploding ( 15 , 60 - 63 ). Efforts need to be made to deliver adequate health care to those currently with obesity and, at the same time, find innovative and alternative solutions that allow economies to prosper and to incorporate technologies that will reverse current trends in obesity and obesity-related complications. Figure 6: Trends in the number of adults, children, and adolescents with obesity and with moderate and severe underweight by region. Children and adolescents were aged 5–19 years. (Taken from ( 54 )). SUMMARY Obesity is both a chronic disease in its own right and a primary contributor to other leading chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases. In the clinic, obesity is still best defined using commonly available tools, including BMI and waist circumference; although it is hoped that newer imaging modalities allowing more precise quantification of amount and distribution of excess lipid depots will improve obesity risk assessment. The general rise in obesity taking place in the US over the past 50 years is now occurring globally. In the US, the prevalence rates of obesity in adult men and women are now similar at 40%, and minorities are disproportionately affected, including Blacks, Native Americans, and Hispanics, with obesity rates of 50% or
