Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


other diagnostic examinations of the oesophagus, stomach and duodenum. Both the symptoms and underlying causes vary widely. Some patients may have peptic ulcers or oesophagitis (inflammation and superficial ulceration of the oesophagus), while others may have cancer. Conclusions Uninvestigated Gastro-oesophageal Reflux Symptoms q Both proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and histamine-2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs) are more effective than placebo for reli- eving gastro-oesophageal reflux symptoms (Evidence Grade 1), and PPIs are more effective than H2RAs (Evidence Grade 1).  Sbu Summary and concluSionS restastuls q A considerable percentage of patients who are treated for acid gastro-oesophageal reflux symptoms without preceding investigation are satisfied with on-demand PPI therapy or continuous H2RA therapy (Evidence Grade 3). Uninvestigated Dyspepsia q When it comes to relieving symptoms in patients with unin- vestigated dyspepsia, no significant differences have been found between diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria combined with treatment of detected infection and an OGD combined with treatment of detected disorders (Evidence Grade 2). Empirical therapy with acid inhibitors relieves symptoms as effectively as treatment based on an OGD (Evidence Grade 3). q Both advanced age and the presence of alarm symptoms in dyspepsia – including bleeding, dysphagia (difficulty swallow- ing) and weight loss – increase the probability of an under- lying malignant tumour (Evidence Grade 3). But a considerable percentage of patients with a tumour have no alarm symptoms at their first medical consultation (Evidence Grade 3). Functional Dyspepsia q Acid inhibitors can provide some relief of the symptoms of functional dyspepsia (Evidence Grade 3). But because the eva- luated studies sometimes include patients with gastro-oeso- phageal reflux symptoms, the efficacy of the drugs is difficult to assess. q Antibiotic therapy that eradicates H. pylori eradication therapy can offer a little relief of the symptoms of functional dyspepsia (Evidence Grade 3), but most patients with functional dys- pepsia are not infected with the bacteria and do not benefit (Evidence Grade 2). From the report “dySpepSia and GaStro-oeSophaGeal reFlux”  snoisulcnoc Treating Helicobacter pylori in Peptic Ulcer Disease q H. pylori eradication therapy considerably reduces the risk for reoccurrence of a peptic ulcer (Evidence Grade 1). q H. pylori eradication therapy is more effective than acid in- hibitors alone in preventing reoccurrence of a bleeding peptic ulcer (Evidence Grade 1). The conclusion applies only to pa- tients without concurrent non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) therapy. q One week of triple therapy for H. pylori eradication
