Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


bleeding peptic ulcer (Evidence Grade 1). The conclusion applies only to pa- tients without concurrent non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) therapy. q One week of triple therapy for H. pylori eradication that is not followed by acid inhibition therapy is as effective as one week of triple therapy for H. pylori eradication followed by 2–3 week acid inhibition therapy when it comes to both healing duo- denal ulcers (Evidence Grade 3) and relieving their symptoms (Evidence Grade 3). Gastro-oesophageal Reflux Disease q Normal doses of PPIs are more effective than H2RAs for trea- ting gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) with coexisting oesophagitis (Evidence Grade 1). Longer treatment periods and higher doses of PPIs lead to healing of oesophagitis in more patients (Evidence Grade 1). q Continuous PPI therapy is more effective than on-demand PPI therapy for long-term treatment of GERD with coexisting oeso- phagitis (Evidence Grade 1). On-demand PPI therapy and con- tinuous PPI therapy are equally effective for long-term treatment of GERD without oesophagitis (Evidence Grade 1). q Long-term PPI therapy is safe (Evidence Grade 1) and equally effective as surgery (Evidence Grade 2), making it suitable for younger people as well. Occasional deaths and frequent adverse effects have been reported in connection with surgical inter- vention (Evidence Grade 1).  Sbu Summary and concluSionS From the report “dySpepSia and GaStro-oeSophaGeal reFlux” 7 snoisulcnoc Barrett’s Oesophagus q Barrett’s oesophagus increases the risk of developing oeso- phageal adenocarcinoma (Evidence Grade 3), but the extent to which the risk increases is not fully known. q No studies have proven the benefits of systematic endoscopic examinations (screening) to identify people with Barrett’s oesophagus or regular endoscopic examinations of people with Barrett’s oesophagus (surveillance). q There is a lack of well-designed scientific studies showing that acid inhibitor therapy or anti-reflux surgery significantly reduce the risk of developing oesophageal adenocarcinoma in patients with Barrett’s oesophagus. Fact Box 1 Study Quality and Relevance, Evidence Grade. Study quality and relevance refers to the scientific quality of a particular study and its ability to reliably address a specific question. Evidence Grade refers to the total scientific evidence for a conclusion, ie, how many high-quality studies support the conclusion. Evidence Grade 1 – Strong Scientific Evidence A conclusion assigned Evidence Grade 1 is supported by a good systematic literature overview with a meta-analysis or at least two studies with high quality and relevance among the total scientific evidence. If some
