Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


Grade 1 is supported by a good systematic literature overview with a meta-analysis or at least two studies with high quality and relevance among the total scientific evidence. If some studies are at variance with the conclusion, the Evidence Grade may be lower. Evidence Grade 2 – Moderately Strong Scientific Evidence A conclusion assigned Evidence Grade  is supported by a systematic literature overview with a meta-analysis that fails to meet the requirements for a good systematic overview in some respect or at least one study with high quality and relevance and two studies with medium quality and rele- vance among the total scientific evidence. If some studies are at variance with the conclusion, the Evidence Grade may be lower. Evidence Grade 3 – Limited Scientific Evidence A conclusion assigned Evidence Grade  is supported by a systematic literature overview with a meta-analysis that fails to meet the requirements for a good systematic overview in several respects or at least two studies with medium quality and relevance among the total scientific evidence. If some studies are at variance with the conclusion, the scientific evidence may be lower. Insufficient Scientific Evidence If no studies meet the quality and relevance criteria, the scientific evidence is rated as insufficient to draw any conclusions. Contradictory Scientific Evidence If different studies are characterised by equal quality and relevance but generate conflicting results, the scientific evidence is rated as contradictory and no conclusions can be drawn.  Sbu Summary and concluSionS restastuls Additional Research Needs Both the underlying causes and progress of functional dyspepsia are still unknown. That is largely true of GERD as well. Although researchers have identified the decisive role played by H. pylori, there are large gaps in our knowledge about the causes and progress of peptic ulcer disease, as well as the factors that determine whether or not life-threatening complications develop. Knowledge is largely lacking about the significance of gender in these conditions. The relevance of lifestyle factors – such as diet, physical activity and body weight – for the development of GERD and the prospects for influencing its progress also requires additional as well as the long-term effects of both medical and surgical inter- vention for reflux disorders, would also be beneficial. More studies are needed that examine the impact of H. pylori eradication therapy on a broader scale in the context of everyday health care. More reliable information is required
