Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


beneficial. More studies are needed that examine the impact of H. pylori eradication therapy on a broader scale in the context of everyday health care. More reliable information is required about how much of a risk factor Barrett’s oesophagus is for oesophageal adenocarcinoma, as well as the effectiveness of endoscopic screening and surveillance. Additional efforts are needed to identify clinically useful indicators or markers for cancer risk. Both general and targeted health economic studies covering the entire field of dyspepsia and reflux disorders are badly needed. Independent, community-financed research is particularly urgent. oFbrSotrmu tKhteiV rte SpÖomrtn a“dpynSÉpSeypnSdiar oanmd – GdaiaSGtrnoo-SoteiKSo opchha Gbeehala nredFlliunxG”  snoisulcnoc SBU’s summary Introduction Dyspepsia, which has multiple causes, is either organic or functional. Organic dyspepsia refers to conditions caused by diseases of the upper gastrointestinal tract – particularly peptic ulcers, as well as oesophageal and gastric cancer – that can be detected during an examination. Functional dyspepsia is the default diagnosis when a thorough clinical investigation does not point to an organic cause or demon- strably impaired gastrointestinal function. Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) involves the back- flow of stomach contents through the lower oesophageal sphincter into the oesophagus, typically causing the symptoms of heartburn and acid regurgitation or waterbrash (bitter regurgitation). Oeso- phagitis can sometimes be detected by an OGD. Patients with typical symptoms of GERD who exhibit no signs of oesophagitis during an OGD are diagnosed as having endoscopy-negative reflux disease (ENRD). The majority of patients with peptic ulcer disease have inflam- matory changes in the lower (distal) stomach caused by H. pylori. Half of the world’s population is infected with the bacteria. Most people contract it before the age of one and have it all their lives if left untreated. The bacteria cause a number of different conditions, including peptic ulcers and even gastric cancer. But the infection produces no symptoms in most people. Sbu Summary and concluSionS Investigating Dyspepsia in Current Clinical Practice Case History Based solely on a patient’s particular symptoms, it is generally impossible to determine the cause of dyspepsia with any reasonable certainty. But the patient’s narrative of how the disorder developed can render various diagnoses more or less probable, while facilit- ating the choice of examinations that will confirm or rule them out. For example, heartburn and acid regurgitation point to GERD. The persistence and progress of symptoms are also inte- gral to investigating dyspepsia. Clarification is needed
