Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


confirm or rule them out. For example, heartburn and acid regurgitation point to GERD. The persistence and progress of symptoms are also inte- gral to investigating dyspepsia. Clarification is needed concerning the symptoms or constellation of symptoms that call for a particular diagnostic or therapeutic alarm symptoms – including weight loss, melena (black stool), hematemesis (vomiting blood), and dysphagia (difficulty swallow- ing) – that may accompany dyspepsia call for prioritised exam- inations. Another such alarm symptom is the development of new dyspeptic symptoms in patients over 50 years of age. Oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy and other Examinations Oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (OGD) is a particularly effec- tive examination for identifying possible organic causes of dyspep- sia. Between 10% and 20% of patients with more than temporary dyspepsia have peptic ulcers. Approximately 10% have reflux oesophagitis, and fewer than 1% have cancer. An endoscopy can permit all three diagnoses with a high degree of certainty. 24-hour pH monitoring of the oesophagus provides valuable information when investigating dyspepsia, but the results must also be considered in light of the patient’s case history and an endoscopy. Such monitoring is associated with certain difficulties in terms of interpreting the results, ie, determining what is normal and what is pathological. Ultrasonography is useful for diagnosing the pathological processes in the bile ducts, liver and pancreas that occur in approximately 5% of dyspepsia patients. From the report “dySpepSia and GaStro-oeSophaGeal reFlux” 11 Helicobacter pylori – Diagnosis The routine methods in primary care are to investigate the pre- sence of antibodies against H. pylori in the blood (the rapid test, yielding immediate results) or serum samples that are sent to the laboratory. Surface markers for the presence of H. pylori can also be detected in a stool sample. The urea breath test, based on the ability of H. pylori to break down the swallowed urea, is considered to be the most reliable. H. pylori infection can also be demonstrated by microscopically examining tissue samples taken from the stomach mucosa during an endoscopy. Samples for cultivating H. pylori can also be taken during this procedure. Project Methodology Literature Review A systematic review of scientific studies was central to summar- ising the current state of knowledge about the treatment of dyspepsia and related disorders. The review focused primarily on randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and systematic literature overviews, based chiefly on RCTs. Proceeding from specific terms, the Medline database was sear- ched for studies in English
