Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


review focused primarily on randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and systematic literature overviews, based chiefly on RCTs. Proceeding from specific terms, the Medline database was sear- ched for studies in English language publications only. Because this report is partly a follow-up on the previous SBU report Dyspepsia – Methods of Diagnosis and Treatment (2000), the search for certain areas was limited to January 1999 to 2005. The search for other areas went back to 1996. Each chapter of the main report provides more details about the associated literature search. A questionnaire about the treatment of uninvestigated dyspepsia in clinical practice was sent to general medical practitioners. A questionnaire study was also conducted at all of Sweden’s endos- copy units. The scope of surgery for GERD, as well as pharma- ceutical sales in the various therapy areas, is also covered. 1 Sbu Summary and concluSionS Results of the Literature Review Uninvestigated Dyspepsia and Uninvestigated Gastro-oesophageal Reflux There are two traditional approaches to treating patients with uninvestigated dyspepsia. Empirical therapy often includes acid inhibitors, dietary counselling and reassurance – or treatment can be based on the results of an OGD (prompt endoscopy). Existing studies that include patients who have uninvestigated dyspepsia have not found any difference in symptom relief between empirical therapy with acid inhibition and treatment following an OGD (Evidence Grade 3). An additional approach has been adopted in recent years by which an H. pylori test is first performed, followed by the choice of an investigation and treatment strategy. One strategy (test-and- treat) is to immediately eradicate any H. pylori that is detected without performing an OGD. The other strategy is to perform an OGD if H. pylori is detected and treat only patients with demon- strable peptic ulcer disease. In other words, H. pylori infection is not treated if there are no current or previous signs of a peptic ulcer. Systematic literature overviews show that the test-and-treat strategy appears to be more cost-effective than prompt endoscopy. Problems with translating relative prices from studies in other countries, as well as evaluating the impact of differing ways of structuring the healthcare sector, make it difficult to assess their relevance to cost-effectiveness issues in Sweden. Oesophageal acid exposure correlates well with isolated gastro- oesophageal reflux symptoms, at least in younger patients. The patient group is increasingly given empirical therapy with acid inhibitors. From the report “dySpepSia and GaStro-oeSophaGeal reFlux” 1 One conclusion from
