Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


oesophageal reflux symptoms, at least in younger patients. The patient group is increasingly given empirical therapy with acid inhibitors. From the report “dySpepSia and GaStro-oeSophaGeal reFlux” 1 One conclusion from the literature review is that both PPIs and H2RAs relieve the symptoms of GERD (Evidence Grade 1). PPIs are more effective than H2RAs in relieving or wholly elimina- ting symptoms (Evidence Grade 1). A considerable percentage of patients who are treated empirically for uninvestigated gastro- oesophageal reflux symptoms are satisfied with on-demand PPI therapy or continuous H2RA therapy (Evidence Grade 3). H. pylori is a documented risk factor for gastric cancer, causing an estimated 60–90% of all cases. The problem is that the people with H. pylori who will later develop peptic ulcer disease or gastric cancer cannot be readily identified by means of currently available techniques. The incidence of gastric cancer is declining in Sweden, and it is very uncommon among people under 50 years of age. The literature review shows that both advanced age and the presence of alarm symptoms in people with dyspepsia increase the probability of an underlying malignant tumour (Evidence Grade 3). But a considerable percentage of patients with a tumour have no alarm symptoms at their first medical consultation (Evidence Grade 3). Functional Dyspepsia Functional dyspepsia refers to pain, ache or discomfort in the upper gastrointestinal tract unexplainable by observable organic changes. The symptoms usually follow eating. In addition to pain, patients with functional dyspepsia often have nausea, early satiety, abdominal bloating and distension of the upper gastrointestinal tract. The term functional dyspepsia previously included the symp- toms of heartburn and gastro-oesophageal reflux as well. The Rome I criteria for functional gastrointestinal disorders excluded those symptoms from the term and associated them with GERD instead. The underlying causes of functional dyspepsia remain unknown. SBU’s 2000 report found that drug therapy has highly limited benefits for the disorder. 1 Sbu Summary and concluSionS Following are some of the questions addressed by the current report concerning drug therapy for functional dyspepsia. Do acid inhibitors relieve symptoms more effectively than placebo? According to meta-analyses, drugs that inhibit the production of gastric acid provide some relief of functional dyspepsia symptoms (Evidence Grade 3). But because the constellation of symptoms bears certain similarities to that associated with non-oesophagitis reflux disease, analysing the impact of acid inhibitors on functional dyspepsia is difficult. Does drug therapy relieve symptoms more effectively than
