Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


symptoms bears certain similarities to that associated with non-oesophagitis reflux disease, analysing the impact of acid inhibitors on functional dyspepsia is difficult. Does drug therapy relieve symptoms more effectively than placebo when there is coexisting H. pylori infection? H. pylori eradication therapy provides a little relief of functional dyspepsia symptoms (Evidence Grade 3). However, most patients with functional dyspepsia either are not infected with H. pylori or obtain no relief from the therapy (Evidence Grade 2). Are PPIs more cost-effective than placebo? Because the meta-analysis reviewed was inconclusive, the question of the relative cost-effectiveness of PPIs and placebo in relieving functional dyspepsia symptoms cannot be answered. Helicobacter pylori and Treatment of Peptic Ulcer Disease H. pylori infection is ordinarily contracted during infancy. Absent treatment, the infection lasts a lifetime and is somewhat more common in adult males than females, though equally prevalent in girls and boys. Approximately 30% of Swedish patients age 30–50 have H. pylori. The bacteria are estimated to cause 95% of duodenal ulcers, 70% of gastric ulcers and at least 70% of gastric cancers. An estimated 10–20% of people with H. pylori develop a peptic ulcer at some point in their lives. One of the main prob- lems is that it is not currently possible to predict which people From the report “dySpepSia and GaStro-oeSophaGeal reFlux” 1 summary and conclusions with the bacteria will remain symptom-free and which will develop peptic ulcer disease or cancer. As opposed to gastric cancer, peptic ulcers remain a common condition. There are two main kinds of peptic ulcers – gastric and duo- denal. Studies indicate that 4–6% of Scandinavians have peptic ulcers. Although both gastric and duodenal ulcers were once more common among Scandinavian men than women, the current trend is for the gap to narrow. The risk of complications, such as a bleeding or perforated peptic ulcer, is considerable. Current data indicate that 40–50 Swedes per 100 000 have bleeding peptic ulcers every year and that approximately 6% of them die. In other words, peptic ulcer disease not only causes great human suffering, but generates substantial costs for the community. The current literature review led to the following conclusions. H. pylori eradication therapy considerably reduces the risk that a gastric ulcer will reoccur (Evidence Grade 1). But the scientific evidence is insufficient to draw any conclusions concerning the risk of reoccurrence after 1–2 week eradication therapy compared to continuous maintenance
