Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


ulcer will reoccur (Evidence Grade 1). But the scientific evidence is insufficient to draw any conclusions concerning the risk of reoccurrence after 1–2 week eradication therapy compared to continuous maintenance therapy with acid inhibitors in the absence of preceding eradication. H. pylori eradication therapy considerably reduces the risk that a duodenal ulcer will reoccur (Evidence Grade 1). One week of triple therapy for H. pylori eradication that is not followed by acid inhibi- tion therapy is as effective as one week of triple therapy for H. pylori eradication followed by 2–3 week acid inhibition therapy when it comes to both healing duodenal ulcers (Evidence Grade 3) and relieving their symptoms (Evidence Grade 3). H. pylori eradication therapy for 1–2 weeks that is not followed by continuous maintenance therapy with acid inhibitors has not been shown to pose a different risk for reoccurrence of a duodenal ulcer than regular maintenance therapy with acid inhibitors in the absence of preceding H. pylori eradication therapy (Evidence Grade 1). Whether or not it is followed by continuous maintenance therapy with acid inhibitors, H. pylori eradication therapy is more effective than acid inhibitors alone in preventing reoccurrence of From the report “dySpepSia and GaStro-oeSophaGeal reFlux” 17 a bleeding peptic ulcer (Evidence Grade 1). Because the analysis included patients who received little or no concurrent NSAID therapy, the conclusion does not extend to those receiving such therapy. None of the studies that served as the basis for evidence grad- ing in accordance with the above focused on analysing possible gender differences. Gastro-oesophageal Reflux Disease Gastro-oesophageal reflux refers to the backward flow of stomach contents through the lower oesophageal sphincter into the oeso- phagus, normally after eating and during physical activity. Such episodes are short-lived, and the musculature of the oesophagus usually returns the refluxate to the stomach very quickly. Protec- tion factors in the saliva and oesophageal mucosa, as well as the saliva’s buffering capacity, counteract the harmful effects of the refluxate. Gas reflux (belching), primarily of swallowed air, stems from a protective reflex. Increased gastro-oesophageal reflux or failure of the protective factors can give rise to symptoms or oesophageal injury. The line between a healthy and pathological state is ill-defined. It is well- documented that symptoms traceable to gastro-oesophageal reflux are common among the general population and of a nature such that many people never seek medical advice. But some patients with demonstrable reflux have
