Bookshelf_NBK448002
KEYWORDS: evidence, therapy, grade, dyspepsia, evidence grade, reflux, symptoms, pylori, sbu, gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastro-oesophageal, acid, patients, treatment, scientific


symptoms traceable to gastro-oesophageal reflux are common among the general population and of a nature such that many people never seek medical advice. But some patients with demonstrable reflux have no (or only negligible) symptoms, and the disorder is not detected unless an oesophageal stricture or cancer develops. Due to the ill-defined line between a healthy and pathological state, an unequivocal definition of what constitutes a reflux disorder is not currently possible. According to the literature review, a normal PPI dose for eight weeks is more effective than H2RAs or other strategies in treating a reflux disorder with coexisting oesophagitis (Evidence Grade 1). Longer treatment periods and higher doses of PPIs lead to heal- ing of oesophagitis in more patients (Evidence Grade 1). But no 1 Sbu Summary and concluSionS published articles address the question of whether healing of oesophagitis should be monitored. Continuous PPI therapy is more effective than on-demand PPI therapy for long-term treatment of a reflux disorder with coexisting oesophagitis (Evidence Grade 1). But there is no scientific evidence that PPIs are more effective than H2RAs for initial treatment of endoscopy-negative reflux disease (ENRD). On-demand PPI thera- py is more effective than placebo and equally effective as continuous PPI therapy for long-term treatment of ENRD (Evidence Grade 1). GERD is a chronic disorder to which younger people are also susceptible. Given that treatment continues for decades, special consideration must be given to efficacy, safety and alternatives to drug therapy. Long-term PPI therapy is also safe for younger people (Evidence Grade 1) and equally effective as surgery (Evi- dence Grade 2). Surgical intervention leads to occasional deaths and a high percentage of adverse effects (Evidence Grade 1). Barrett’s Oesophagus Barrett’s oesophagus is a condition in which the normal oesopha- geal mucosa undergoes a change (intestinal metaplasia) due to chro- nic acid regurgitation. The diagnosis cannot be made on the basis of an endoscopic examination alone, but requires an analysis of tissue samples. The growing clinical interest in Barrett’s oesophagus during the past few decades is due to its correlation with gastro- oesophageal reflux, as well as the greater incidence of oesophageal adenocarcinoma. People with Barrett’s oesophagus have poorer protection against gastro-oesophageal reflux, as well as more oesophageal exposure to gastric juice, than others with GERD. The extent of Barrett’s mucosa is also related to the severity of the GERD. While the incidence of Barrett’s oesophagus among the general
