Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289 CASE REPORT Unilateral biportal endoscopy for the treatment of high-grade thoracic spinal meningioma: a case report and review of the literature WeiDong Huang1 · Jia Liao2 · Teng Liu1 · ZePeng Cai1 · XuQiao Zhang1 Received: 9 September 2025 / Accepted: 23 September 2025 / Published online: 10 October 2025 © The Author(s) 2025 Abstract Thoracic spinal segment intradural extramedullary (IDEM) tumors have the risk of disability, and early detection can usually be treated by surgery. The thoracic spinal canal is narrower than the cervical and lumbar spine, with ribs con- nected on both sides, so the operable space for surgery is narrow, intraoperative exposure is difficult, so it is worthwhile to summarize and improve how to completely resect the thoracic IDEM tumors, and to minimize the surgical-related neurological dysfunction. Currently, most of the surgical approaches are open laminectomy approach and microscopic surgery, and there are few reports about the surgical approach of Unilateral Biportal Endoscopy (UBE). We report a case of significant spinal cord compression due to an IDEM lesion at the T2 vertebral level. A UBE surgery was performed to resect the intraspinal tumor, which was pathologically confirmed as a meningioma. The patient recovered well post- operatively, neurological and imaging success was achieved, and the pathology results confirmed that the tumor was a meningioma, and treatment was completed without adjuvant therapy. The UBE technique can be applied to the treatment of intradural tumors. UBE technique for the treatment of IDEM tumors in the upper thoracic spine is safe and effective and deserves further promotion. Keywords Unilateral biportal endoscopy · Intradural extramedullary · Tumor · Meningioma · Case report Early onset of IDEM tumors usually has no obvious symp- et al. 2021), which bring the risk of comparatively greater toms, with the growth of the tumor, the spinal cord or nerve trauma, decreased spinal stability, and longer operative root compression is obvious, and persistent radicular pain time.The UBE technique is an emerging minimally invasive occurs; with the aggravation of the disease, cervicothoracic endoscopic technique, which provides a wider field of view segment tumors often have diminished or disappeared tac- and more room for maneuvering, and has been mostly used tile sensation of the skin of the back and the terminal pha- in degenerative spinal diseases . Regard- langes and pain and temperature sensation, and lumbosacral ing the application of this
