Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


sensation of the skin of the back and the terminal pha- in degenerative spinal diseases . Regard- langes and pain and temperature sensation, and lumbosacral ing the application of this technique in IDEM tumors, the segment tumors appear to have diminished or disappeared reports on the application of this technique are still limited, tactile sensation of the perineum and the lower limbs, result- and this study reports a case of IDEM tumor resection at the ing in urinary retention, difficulty in urination, or constipa- level of thoracic 2 under the UBE technique, which provides tion, and the spinal cord compression is obvious and may a limited experience in the application of this technique. lead to paralysis (Gilard et al. 2018; Cao et al. 2021). Cur- rent studies have shown that posterior laminectomy and microscopic surgery are the main surgical modalities (Xia Case report The patient is a 51 year old female who was admitted due to “chest and back pain for 2 months”, accompanied by weak- XuQiao Zhang ness and decreased sensation in the right lower limb.MRI scanning + enhancement: thoracic vertebral body level of Shenzhen 518100, Guangdong, China pations, consider benign occupations (Fig. 1). Guangdong, China 1 3 F ig. 1 Enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) prior to surgery. A Preoperative sagittal MRI showed a sizeable IDEM tumor (arrow) at the T2 level with an intact envelope and clear bor- ders. B–E Preoperative axial MRI showed that the IDEM tumor sig- nificantly compressed the thoracic spinal cord to the Left side. The red and blue lines represent the axial planes in A F ig. 2 Intra-operative endoscopic images of UBE procedure, the resected tumor and the incisions. A Subblue disc staining for localiza- tion. B Ophthalmic 15° puncture knife for incision of the dura mater. C dural incision. D–F Tumor exposure and clamping. G Gelatin sponge was inserted into the dural incision. H, I The dural sac was sutured under endoscopy. J The resected tumor. K The incisions The patient refused the internal fixation implant incisions of about 2 cm and 1 cm were made at the left sur- surgery,we propose to perform unilateral two-channel endo- face projection of the thoracic 1/2 intervertebral space, with scopic T2 level resection of an intravertebral mass, spinal the cephalic side as the working channel and the caudal side nerve enlargement, shaping and decompression, and spinal as the observation channel. membrane repair for
