Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


of an intravertebral mass, spinal the cephalic side as the working channel and the caudal side nerve enlargement, shaping and decompression, and spinal as the observation channel. membrane repair for “Intravertebral mass (T2 level)”. The A longitudinal incision of about 2 cm was made in the study obtained informed consent from patients and Ethics left side of the mid-area of the intervertebral space by 1 cm, Chinese Medicine (No. KY-2024-363). same side of the mid-area of the intervertebral space by 1 cm, and a longitudinal incision of about 1 cm was made in the area of the body surface projected on the left side of Procedure the intervertebral space at the junction of the sphenoid pro- cess and the vertebral plate, the cephalic side was used as an Procedure position and instruments observation channel, and the caudal side as a surgical instru- ment (plasma, radiofrequency, milling drill, vertebral drill, After successful anesthesia, routine disinfection and tow- and other surgical instruments). The cephalad incision was eling were performed, the patient was positioned prone in used as an observation channel, and the caudal incision was the reverse Trendelenburg position,the thoracic 1/2 inter- used as a channel for the placement of surgical instruments vertebral space was localized under fluoroscopy of C-arm (plasma radiofrequency, grinding drill, vertebral plate biting X-ray machine, methylene blue was injected, and the target forceps, semicannulas, and pulling hooks) and an operation intervertebral disc was stained (Fig. 2A). Two longitudinal channel. 1 3 Mass removal and decompression for endoscopic in the incision. After counting the instruments and gauze, the incision was closed with full-layer suture. The skin and fascia were incised, and dilatation catheters and muscle strippers were inserted step by step into the operation channel to bluntly strip part of the interverte- Results bral muscles to minimize muscle damage and establish the operation channel. The spinal endoscope was inserted into After the operation, the patient's right lower limb sensation the observation channel, the irrigation system was turned and numbness discomfort recovered. On the second postop- on, the irrigation solution was saline, and the water pressure erative day, the patient had dizziness and headache, which was controlled at 25–30 mm Hg. was obvious when the position was changed, and the drain- 90° plasma radiofrequency was used to gradually sepa- age flow was increased after the operation. Considering the rate the surface tissues of the vertebral plate, to reveal the cerebrospinal
