Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


drain- 90° plasma radiofrequency was used to gradually sepa- age flow was increased after the operation. Considering the rate the surface tissues of the vertebral plate, to reveal the cerebrospinal fluid leakage, the patient was given the head- vertebral plate window, and then a grinding drill and a ver- low-feet-height position, and was relieved by rehydration tebral plate biting forceps were used to treat the vertebral and symptomatic treatment. After the decrease of drainage plate and establish the operation window. The ligamentum flow, the drainage tube was removed on 09–16, and the sur- flavum of the inferior margin of the superior vertebra was gical port was closed, and the patient did not see any obvi- treated first, and then the ligamentum flavum of the superior ous discomfort. CT showed a partial defect of the annexe margin of the inferior vertebra was treated, and after mak- on the left side of the T2 vertebral body (Fig. 3A–C). MRI ing sure that there was no adhesion between the ligamentum shows that the tumor has been resected (Fig. 3D–F). The flavum and the dura mater, the ligamentum flavum of the pathological results confirm that is a spinal meningioma. ipsilateral side was resected. The dura mater was exposed, intermittent clamping of the water inlet multiple times, mea- suring the inflow and outflow to ensure that they are equal. Discussion And the ophthalmic knife was used to cut open the local dura mater (Fig. 2B, C). At this time, a mass was seen on the To the best of our knowledge, this is the second reported inner surface of the dura mater in the thoracic 2 plane, which case of an IDEM tumor of the thoracic spine treated by the originated from the nerve root periphery, and the mass was UBE technique, but the location of the mass adjacent to yellowish in color and soft in texture, and the local spinal the lower cervical spine in our case carries a greater risk. cord was obviously compressed (Fig. 2D). A blunt nerve The patient's outcome was satisfactory and neurologic and probe hook was placed against the inner wall of the dura to radiologic success was achieved. separate the mass to the tip of the mass, and carefully divide Early symptoms of IDEM tumors are not characteristic, it into several parts to remove the mass (Fig. 2E, F),and the and over time the occupying space continues to
