Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


carefully divide Early symptoms of IDEM tumors are not characteristic, it into several parts to remove the mass (Fig. 2E, F),and the and over time the occupying space continues to compress local spinal cord could be seen to gradually and slowly reset and irritate the nerve root, causing local or radicular pain on its own. Observe that there is no active bleeding or ooz- symptoms, which may be further exacerbated by the slow ing of blood in the operation field. prolongation of the disease. Hyperalgesia, unsteady walk- Gelatin sponge was inserted into the dural incision ing and limb weakness are the common reasons for patients (7–0 PROLENE) (Fig. 2H, I), and a silicone drain was left the early and middle stages of insidious onset of disease. Hyperalgesia in IDEM tumors usually starts from the distal F ig. 3 A Postoperative 3-dimen- sional CT, (arrow) the bone window. B, C Postoperative axial CT. MRI sagittal D and axial E, F of post-operation showed that the IDEM tumor was removed completely, and the spinal cord returned to a normal position. The red and blue lines represent the axial planes in (D) 1 3 part of the lower limbs and progresses upward, and is less and shortening the hospitalization time . common in thoracolumbar spinal cord tumors than in cervi- Compared with the single-port endoscopic technique, UBE cal spinal cord tumors, which are usually caused by lesions is not limited by the outer casing, and the intervertebral of the posterior nerve roots, i.e., sensory roots, and result approach has a similar field of view to that of microscopic in sensory deficits in the corresponding dermatomal areas surgery, with a relatively shorter learning curve. Kang et . The symptoms of ambulatory al. (2019) reported the application of the UBE technique in instability are also related to the compression of the ante- three patients with epidural lipoatrophy. Kim et al. (2022) rior motor root by nerve root irritation, resulting in atrophy reported that the UBE technique was used in one patient and hypokinesia of the innervated muscles of the nerve root. with epidural aneurysmal-like bone cyst with nerve com- In the later stages of the disease, further symptoms such as pression The authors believe that epidural tumors combined dysfunction of the bowels and decreased sexual perfor- with nerve compression and spinal trauma may also be mance may occur (Abeloos et al. 2011; Avila et al.
