Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


epidural tumors combined dysfunction of the bowels and decreased sexual perfor- with nerve compression and spinal trauma may also be mance may occur (Abeloos et al. 2011; Avila et al. 2015). indications for this technique. Wang et al. (2022) in 2022 The first choice for IDEM tumors is still surgery. With the reported the application of UBE technique for the removal update of minimally invasive concepts, the traditional open of benign epidural tumors and spinal canal decompression surgical plan has been gradually replaced, and the applica- in 5 cases, and Wei Peng et al. also reported for the first time tion of microscope-assisted hemilaminectomy is the main- a case of resection of lower thoracic spinal IDEM tumor stream plan for this type of tumors, which better preserves by the UBE technique, which achieved good postoperative the stability of the spine, reduces the trauma, shortens hos- outcomes. pitalization time, and helps the patients return to work more In this study, we report a case of successful resection quickly. However, the hemivertebral microscopic technique of IDEM tumor by UBE technique, in which we also have still requires incision of the patient's muscles ipsilateral to some new details and lessons to share. We chose an ophthal- the tumor site, with insufficient intraoperative visual field mic 15° puncture knife(Fig. 4) for microscopic incision of exposure . In contrast, In contrast, endos- the dura mater, which is a straight-tipped, single-sided blade copy is less destructive to the bone structure, provides pan- tool designed to create incisions of 0.8–1.2 mm in width oramic illumination and neurovascular visualization, and depending on the depth of penetration, with no blade at the avoids the problems of disruption of spinal stability and dorsal end of the knife, which is commonly used to create muscle injury at the time of tumor resection, no need for corneal or scleral incisions. The tip of the ophthalmic punc- internal fixation devices. This undoubtedly reduced postop- ture knife is thin and sharp, due to the long handle brings erative pain, paravertebral muscle atrophy, and complica- enough operating space; the blade has a shorter stroke tions caused by internal fixation, and shortened the length of on the surface of the dura mater, which is safer and more have proposed a successful endoscope-assisted microscopic rowed, and some scholars have also proposed its advantage resection of IDEM tumors. With the promotion of mini- in arthroscopic disc menuplasty to
