Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


more have proposed a successful endoscope-assisted microscopic rowed, and some scholars have also proposed its advantage resection of IDEM tumors. With the promotion of mini- in arthroscopic disc menuplasty to deal with anterior horn mally invasive endoscopy in spinal surgery in recent years, of meniscus , which has the same ratio- some scholars have also reported successful cases of lumbar nale: the blade has a shorter stroke in the articular cavity, IDEM tumors resected under intervertebral foramenoscopy and there is no damage to the anterior cruciate ligament risk. (Şentürk and Ünsal 2019). All these prove to us the feasibil- Unfortunately, the patient developed a cerebrospinal fluid ity of spinal endoscopy applied to IDEM. leak postoperatively, which was related to the fact that we UBE technique is a minimally invasive spinal procedure did not tightly suture the dura mater. Microscopic suturing that has been developed in recent years and has been widely of the dura is still a big challenge, but it is a necessary means used in degenerative spinal diseases with remarkable effi- to avoid cerebrospinal fluid leakage, we also tried to apply cacy . UBE operative instruments can be gelatin sponge cover to avoid dural bulging, and push knots directly used with open surgical instruments, which is effi- suture to avoid this risk, still unsuccessful, which is worth to cient in decompression of bony vertebral canal, with less summarize and improve further. surgical trauma, and less stripping of paravertebral muscles We also summarized the literature related to UBE tech- thus reducing the incidence of postoperative low back pain nique therapy for the treatment of intradural tumors (Kim et al. 2022; Wang et al. 2022; Peng et al. 2024) (Table 1), and these cases included both epidural and intramedullary subdural tumors. We share some of the same views that the UBE technology technique is suitable for intradural tumors that are dorsal and anterolateral to the spinal cord and do not extend beyond the area of the two intervertebral foramina; Fig. 4 The ophthalmic 15° puncture knife 1 3 Table 1 Summary of UBE technique therapy for the treatment of intradural tumors Author tumor location Gender/age Clinical presentation Disease Grade of pathologic (year) duration resection diagnosis (months) Kim et al. SEDT, T12/L1 F/72 Leg weakness and back pain 36 Total aneurysmal (2022) level bone cyst Wang et SEDT, T2–T3 M/47 Lower limb weakness, intermittent claudication, and 3 Total Hemangioma al. (2022)
