Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


branches during the 2023). It has been suggested that continu- operation. ous saline irrigation after dural incision increases intracra- Most of the opinions are more in favor of complete one- nial pressure, in our case, we controlled the water pressure time resection of the mass, and from our review of all the at 25–30 mmHg , maintain the reverse cases so far, the possibility of complete resection has more are equal, and applied mannitol promptly after surgery, and not really worth emphasizing, and more attention should be did not experience related adverse events, which may not be paid to avoiding excessive compression of the spinal cord a cause for concern.Of course, intracranial pressure moni- during the operation. In a summarized case of pure endo- toring system can be used intraoperatively, which is worthy scopic resection of an extramedullary subdural mass up to of more research. 6.8 cm, the investigator used the “sliding delivery” tech- With regard to the design of the incision, the view of nique . With the UBE technique, the existing literature is mainly based on the location of it may be possible to remove larger masses by increasing the mass, which is the same for both subdural and epidural the incision, as has been experienced with epidural masses masses. If the mass does not cross the midline of the spinal . In most of the reported cases, there was cord, the incision is made on the same side of the mass, no significant preoperative destruction of the bony struc- and if it exceeds the midline, the incision is made on the tures, and the wider field of view of the UBE technique side where the compression is slight. Scholars who hold this compared to microscopy provided better protection of struc- view are mainly interested in avoiding the serious conse- tures such as the articular eminence, which did not require quences of pulling on the spinal cord (Wang et al. 2022; additional strong fixation. percutaneous pedicle screw fixa- Peng et al. 2024). In our case, the mass also exceeded the tion was carried out in a report by Seung-kook Kim et al. midline of the spinal cord, but we considered the location (2022) due to the consideration of the high instability of the of the mass adjacent to the lower cervical vertebrae and spinal column. This also suggests the necessity of preopera- the location did not exceed the
