Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology (2025) 151:289
KEYWORDS: spinal, tumors, technique, mass, ube, tumor, idem, cord, case, surgery, spinal cord, incision, ube technique, resection, nerve


the high instability of the of the mass adjacent to the lower cervical vertebrae and spinal column. This also suggests the necessity of preopera- the location did not exceed the intervertebral foramen, we tive evaluation of the stability of the segment involved in chose to work on the same side of the mass as the working 1 3 Declarations the mass, and the degree of osteoporosis is also an area to be considered. Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests. Tight suturing of the dural sac is also essential, which pri- marily helps to prevent scar tissue from invading the dural Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons sac, which can lead to neurologic symptoms. However, the Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, technique of microscopic closure is challenging, and our which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropri- case had a postoperative complication of cerebrospinal fluid ate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the leakage, which was associated with the lack of tight sutur- Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed ing. There is no standard method for endoscopic closure of material. You do not have permission under this licence to share the dura mater (Müller et al. 2018), and postoperatively we adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Cre- reflected deeply that if intraoperative difficulties with tight ative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to sutures are observed, the dural defect can be closed by fat the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Com- sheets , fibrin glue (Ahn et al. mons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regu- 2011), or gel foam sheets (Palmer and Davison 2012). lation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission Additionally, what we want to say is that microscopes h t t p : / / c r e a t i v e c o m m o n s . o r g / l i c e n s e s / b y - n c - n d / 4 . 0 /. provide a three-dimensional, stereoscopic field of view, while
