NLM Citation: Hoofnagle JH. Anticholinergic Agents. [Updated 2026
KEYWORDS: liver, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, injury, liver injury, review, safety, patients, anticholinergics, effects, efficacy, anticholinergic, bladder, overactive


Feb 18]. In: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug- Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Bookshelf URL: Anticholinergic Agents Updated: February 18, 2026. OVERVIEW Anticholinergics are agents that decrease or block the actions of acetylcholine on its parasympathetic nervous system receptors on smooth muscle cells, glands and the central nervous system. Cholinergic receptors are usually categorized as nicotinic or muscarinic. Anticholinergics often demonstrate differential antagonism for different conditions. multitude of actions on smooth muscle cells and the parasympathetic nervous system. Anticholinergics have antisecretory activities and decrease nasal and bronchial secretions, salivation, lacrimation, sweating and gastric acid production, and can be used to decrease secretions in allergic and inflammatory diseases. Anticholinergics relax smooth muscle in the gastrointestinal tract, bladder and lung and can be used for gastrointestinal, urological or respiratory conditions associated with spasm and dysmotility. Some anticholinergics have antiemetic properties and are used to prevent nausea and vomiting from motion sickness or during the perioperative period. Anticholinergics increase heart rate and can be used to treat bradycardia. They are also used to reverse cholinergic overstimulation caused by cholinesterase inhibitors and neuromuscular blockers in anesthesia. The common side effects of anticholinergic agents are largely those of parasympathetic inhibition and include dryness of the mouth and eyes, decreased sweating and hyperthermia, headache, visual blurring, constipation, urinary retention, impotence, tachycardia and palpitations, anxiety, restlessness and in some instances agitation and delusions. Anticholinergics rarely cause liver injury. Their relative safety probably relates to their use in low doses for short periods of time only. Most anticholinergics are metabolized in the liver via the cytochrome P450 system. the United States, and major use (G=gastrointestinal, N=nausea and motion sickness, R=respiratory, U=urological). General references to the safety and hepatotoxicity of anticholinergics are given at the end of this overview section and are not repeated in the individual drug descriptions. Anticholinergics used in Parkinson’s disease include benztropine (Cogentin: 1954), biperiden (Akineton: 1959) and trihexyphenidyl (Artane: 1949). Author Affiliation: 1 Liver Disease Research Branch, NIDDK, NIH; Email: . 2 LiverTox The natural or semisynthetic belladonna alkaloids include atropine (generic), hyoscyamine (Anaspaz: U, G) and scopolamine (Scopace, Transderm Scop: 1979, 2001, N). The synthetic quaternary ammonium derivatives have a bulky ammonium side chain that makes them less likely to cross membranes, including the blood brain barrier, and therefore less likely to have central nervous system effects. Anticholinergic quaternary ammonium
