Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: covid-, patients, influenza, respiratory, infection, co-infections, co-infection, health, study, days, patient, positive, sars-cov-, pandemic, public


free information in English and Mandarin on the novel coronavirus COVID- 19. The COVID-19 resource centre is hosted on Elsevier Connect, the company's public news and information website. Elsevier hereby grants permission to make all its COVID-19-related research that is available on the COVID-19 resource centre - including this research content - immediately available in PubMed Central and other publicly funded repositories, such as the WHO COVID database with rights for unrestricted research re-use and analyses in any form or by any means with acknowledgement of the original source. These permissions are granted for free by Elsevier for as long as the COVID-19 resource centre remains active. Journal of Infection and Public Health 14 (2021) 1567–1570 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Journal of Infection and Public Health jou rn al hom epage: Original Articles COVID-19 with underdiagnosed influenza B and parainfluenza-2 co-infections in Saudi Arabia: Two case reports Sari T. Alhoufiea,∗, Naif H. Alsharifb, Khalid O. Alfaroukc, Nadier A. Ibrahima, Ali M. Kheyamid, Alanoud A. Aljifrid a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 7 July 2021 Received in revised form 6 September 2021 Accepted 8 September 2021 Keywords: COVID-19 Cytokine a strom Co-infection Virus b s t r a c t The emerging of the COVID-19 pandemic is currently challenging for the public health system globally. Beyond SARS-CoV-2 pathogenicity, co-infections with recycling respiratory pathogens, whether bacterial, viral, or fungal, might increase disease symptoms, morbidity, and mortality. In this study, we reported two COVID-19 cases in the early phase of the virus spread in Saudi Ara- bia with underdiagnosed respiratory viruses’ co-infections, influenza B and Parainfluenza-2, detected retrospectively. Fortunately, both patients recovered and were discharged home. Underestimation of co-infection among COVID19 patients might lead to hospital stay prolongation and increases morbidity and mortality. Therefore, it is crucial to consider and screen for co-infecting pathogens among COVID-19 patients and those with risk factors. © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). Introduction The association of viral respiratory tract infection and the rate of hospitalization, morbidity, and mortality is a significant concern in public health measurements and management. This concern is ris- ing particularly with respiratory co-infection among those patients, which might increase the severity of the illness . Several studies reported
