Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: covid-, patients, influenza, respiratory, infection, co-infections, co-infection, health, study, days, patient, positive, sars-cov-, pandemic, public


amplify the structural protein envelope E-gene and open reading frame (ORF) 1a of SARS-CoV-2. Sero detection for influenza B and parainfluenza 2 Preserved Serum samples of the two patients were used to detect the IgM antibodies for influenza B and parainfluenza 2 in an indirect ELISA using Vircell IgM ELISA kits G/M1008 and G/M1010 respectively, (Vircell, Granada, Spain), according to the manufac- turer’s instructions. All the patients’ data were extracted from the patient’s medical records. The Institutional Review Board approves this study of the General Directorate of Health Affairs in Madinah with the number (IRB 9-2021). Discussion In this work, two patients infected with the COVID-19 virus in the early phase of the pandemic in Saudi Arabia (May and June 2020) showed retrospectively positive results for influenza B virus antibody IgM (case1) and Parainfluenza-2 antibody IgM (case2), indicating co-infections existence. Fortunately, the co-infection incidences did not lead to ARDS development or other complica- tions, and patients were discharged home after 12 and 2 days of stay is seen in case 1, which is attributed to the co-infection with influenza B and the patient co-morbidity (diabetes) and age (66 years). The administered medications thoroughly covered most of the morbidity-related factors include: S.T. Alhoufie et al. Journal of Infection and Public Health 14 (2021) 1567–1570 - Many evidence suggested that thromboembolism becomes a recent cardinal of COVID-19 that worsens the disease prognosis and is associated with COVID-19-related-mortality . There- fore, administration of Enoxaparin would represent a rational approach in reducing the disease related-morality . - Cytokine storm, hyper-inflammation, lies within the core of COVID-19 and induced many factors that increase disease-related mortality . Therefore, pharmacological agents that suppress this cytokine storm will eventually decrease the disease-related mortality, e.g., Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) . Methylprednisolone fitted to antagonize the cytokine storm, and so early administration of methylprednisolone will reduce the COVID-19-related morality . - Although hydroxychloroquine is approved as an antiprotozoal drug, yet recently, it has been widely used off-label (re-purposing) in the management of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus due to its ability to stabilizes the lysosomal mem- brane ; thus, it prevents and/or decrease the releases of cathepsin enzymes, and so reduces the cytokine storm. - Azithromycin is an example of macrolides antibiotics widely used to treat bacterial infections, especially atypical bacteria (bacte- ria that lack cell walls), as macrolides inhibit protein synthesis. However, how does azithromycin affect the
