Since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID-19 resource centre with
KEYWORDS: covid-, patients, influenza, respiratory, infection, co-infections, co-infection, health, study, days, patient, positive, sars-cov-, pandemic, public


example of macrolides antibiotics widely used to treat bacterial infections, especially atypical bacteria (bacte- ria that lack cell walls), as macrolides inhibit protein synthesis. However, how does azithromycin affect the COVID-19 where its causation was viral and not a bacterial disease, which is a conun- drum? One of the suggested explanations is that macrolides have anti-inflmmatory properties, reducing hyper-inflammation . Moreover, developing viral infection motly leads to developing secondary acute bacterial infection (SABI) . Therefore, addi- tional administration of ceftriaxone to cover the possible typical bacterial infection . Co-infections that occurred in these two cases were not diag- nosed during the care time in the hospital. Similar situations of misdiagnosing respiratory infecting pathogens during early (H1N1) pdm09 virus pandemic in Australia 2009 was reported . However, few studies have reported viral co-infection during respiratory infection endemics such as MERS-COV and the cur- rent COVID-19 pandemic . This limitation in reporting is attributed to the underestimation of co-infection agents during the emergence of a novel pathogen of endemic or pandemic potential. and season time for COVID-19 and other circulating respiratory pathogens might encourage clinicians to exclude the possibility of co-infection existence . An experimental study on cells culture and mice in China showed that the influenza virus facilitates SARS-CoV-2 infectiv- ity via increasing the expression level of ACE2, which is the main target for the COVID19 virus to infect host cells . Indeed, co- infection can seriously damage the immune system and accelerate the severity of the illness . A study in Spain reported influenza A and B as co-infecting agents among SARS-COV-2 patients under mechanical ventilation . A recent study in Saudi Arabia by Bander and colleagues found a positive correlation between co-infecting influenza H1N1 virus and mortality, particu- larly for ICU patients. Their study also detected several respiratory viruses among non-critical COVID-19 patients, such as influenza B, Parainfluenza-3, Adenovirus, and Metapneumovirus diagnosed via respiratory panel multiplex PCR . Limitations of the current study As the study is retrospective, some limitations are included. Besides the serological results, there were no available respira- tory samples to conduct further confirmatory molecular diagnosis (PCR) for influenza B and Para-influenza viruses’ infection. Further- more, the patient’s medical records did not notify if patients previously had received influenza vaccinations, which might minimize the severity of the current influenza co-infections. In addition, no follow-up been mentioned in patient’s records since they have been discharged. However, the
