EBM Experimental Biology and MedicineGu et al.
KEYWORDS: liver, diseases, fibrosis, liver diseases, expression, tgf-, chronic, protein, role, cells, hcc, hepatic, signal, cirrhosis, hsc


EBM Experimental Biology and MedicineGu et al. Minireview Highlight article Role of follistatin-like protein 1 in liver diseases Chuansha Gu1 , Hua Xue2, Xiaoli Yang1, Yu Nie3 and Xinlai Qian2 Corresponding author: Xinlai Qian. Email: Abstract Impact statement Liver diseases, including viral hepatitis, fatty liver, metabolic-associated fatty liver disease, liver cirrhosis, alcoholic liver disease, and liver neoplasms, are and the prognosis of end-stage liver diseases drugs and technologies, the prognosis of end-stage liver diseases, including remains poor. Persistent inflammatory reactions advanced liver cirrhosis and liver neoplasms, remains poor. Follistatin-like protein and substantial damage eventually lead to liver 1 (FSTL1), an extracellular glycoprotein, is secreted by various cell types. It is fibrosis and cirrhosis when liver diseases progress to the chronic phase. There are no ideal therapies a glycoprotein that belongs to the family of secreted proteins acidic and rich in at present. In this review, we summarized the role cysteine (SPARC). It is also known as transforming growth factor-beta inducible and mechanism of Follistatin-like protein 1 (FSTL1) TSC-36 and follistatin-related protein (FRP). FSTL1 plays a key role in cell in liver diseases. FSTL1 plays a key role in cell survival, proliferation, differentiation, and migration, as well as the regulation of survival, proliferation, differentiation, and migra- inflammation and immunity. Studies have demonstrated that FSTL1 significantly tion, as well as the regulation of inflammation and affects the occurrence and development of liver diseases. This article reviews the immunity. However, studies on its mechanism in role and mechanism of FSLT1 in liver diseases. liver diseases such as liver fibrosis and cancer are scarce. Therefore, we present this review while try- ing to show the role of FSTL1 in liver diseases more intensively. With further research, FSTL1 will be a promising target and potential marker for treating liver diseases in the future. Keywords: FSTL1, liver disease, liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, mechanism Experimental Biology and Medicine 2022; 248: 193–200. DOI: Introduction transforming growth factor-beta inducible protein (TSC-36) or follistatin-related protein (FRP).8 Studies have revealed The liver is one of the most important glands in the human that FSTL1 plays an important role in cardiovascular dis- body, and its primary function is material metabolism. It eases, obesity, endocrine diseases, autoimmune diseases, and participates in a series of physiological processes of the fibrous system diseases.9–12 It is closely related to the path- human body, such as the metabolism of lipid,1 fatty acid, ological type of tumor, the
