EBM Experimental Biology and MedicineGu et al.
KEYWORDS: liver, diseases, fibrosis, liver diseases, expression, tgf-, chronic, protein, role, cells, hcc, hepatic, signal, cirrhosis, hsc


transcription.12 FSTL1 protein con- (Figure 1). It plays a major role in many systemic diseases sists of 308 amino acids, and its amino-terminal comprises such as cardiovascular disease, obesity, rheumatoid arthri- 12 amino acid residues. FSTL1 has two O-glycosylation sites tis, and tissue fibrosis.20 In cardiovascular diseases such as and four N-glycosylation sites, and its molecular weight is heart failure and acute coronary syndrome (ACS), the FSTL1 35 kDa. More than two-thirds of the common amino acid concentration in circulating blood increases.21 Increased sequences between FSTL1 and follistatin family members serum FSTL1 is related to the mortality of ACS patients are identical. Like other family members, FSTL1 has an extra- and the severity of chronic heart failure.22 Overexpressed cellular calcium-binding region and follistatin-like domain FSTL1 can prevent extensive cardiac injury and abnormal (FS). Its first EF-hand in the EC domain contains one fewer vascular remodeling and offer protection and regenera- amino acid than those of other family members, which is a tion, whereas the lack of FSTL1 aggravates cardiac injury.8 nonfunctional region. This may be why FSTL1 has different FSTL1 plays dual roles in systemic autoimmune disease functions from the family in evolution.16 Furthermore, FSTL1 (SADS). It mainly plays an anti-inflammatory role in acute has a von Willebrand C-type domain, which is involved in inflammation but has a pro-inflammatory effect in chronic protein-protein interactions. diseases, which may result from the activation of various Gu et al. Follistatin-like protein 1 in liver diseases 195 signal pathways by FSTL1.23 In respiratory diseases, FSTL1 experts reached a consensus that the disease abbreviation is one of the proteins with the highest expression level in the should be changed from NAFLD to MAFLD.36–40 Despite sputum of asthmatic patients through proteomic analysis. no a clear worldwide consensus, global multi-stakeholder The concentration of FSTL1 is negatively correlated with and some associations have endorsed the new terminology, pulmonary function parameters and is positively correlated including the Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the with airway remodeling indexes.24 The results of various Liver (APASL), the Latin American Association for the Study studies on the expression of FSTL1 in various tumors vary. of the Liver (ALEH), the Chinese Society of Hepatology, the Compared with healthy tissues, the expression of FSTL1 in Arabic Association for the Study of Diabetes and Metabolism, renal cell carcinoma,25 nasopharyngeal carcinoma,26 ovarian and societies and clinicians in the Middle East and North cancer, and endometrial
