EBM Experimental Biology and MedicineGu et al.
KEYWORDS: liver, diseases, fibrosis, liver diseases, expression, tgf-, chronic, protein, role, cells, hcc, hepatic, signal, cirrhosis, hsc


FSTL1 in Arabic Association for the Study of Diabetes and Metabolism, renal cell carcinoma,25 nasopharyngeal carcinoma,26 ovarian and societies and clinicians in the Middle East and North cancer, and endometrial carcinoma decreases.27 In contrast, it Africa (MENA).41 Its pathological changes include non- is upregulated in esophageal,28 colorectal,29 and brain tumor alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and steatosis, which are cells.30 FSTL1 may have different regulatory mechanisms characterized by fat accumulation, hepatocyte swelling, and and effects in various tumor types. the development of inflammation and/or fibrosis.42 Its main characteristics are insulin resistance and abnormal lipid Association of FSTL1 with body mass index and metabolism.43 Severe steatosis can cause liver failure and fibrosis even hepatocyte necrosis. Studies have demonstrated that in patients with HCV and steatosis, FSTL1 is significantly A recent study suggested that FSTL1 levels were signifi- increased in the late and early stages of fibrosis, but there is cantly higher in overweight and obese subjects and corre- an insignificant difference in patients with simple HCV infec- lated with their body mass index (BMI) values.31 During the tion. The increased expression of FSTL1 may be an important differentiation of preadipocytes (3T3L1) into adipocytes, the marker of poor prognosis.44 expression of FSTL1 was temporarily upregulated and then For viral hepatitis, HBV and HCV are the most common downregulated to its baseline level. The differentiation of viral infections. HBV or HCV infection is an important path- 3T3L1 cells can be prevented by blocking the initial peak of ogen of liver cirrhosis, and HCC. Zhang and Wang45 found FSTL1 expression or maintaining a high level of FSTL1 in that HBV infection may upregulate the expression of FSTL, the medium.32 In tissues and organs, fibrosis is character- but in HBV infected cells with annular RNAcirc-0004812 ized by an increase in fibrous connective tissue and a rela- knockout, the expression of FSTL1 decreases, whereas over- tive decrease in parenchymal cells. Compared with healthy expressed circ-0004812 can promote the expression of FSTL1 tissues, the expression of FSTL1 was higher in patients by inhibiting miR-1287-5p, indicating that circ-0004812/ with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. The effect of FSTL1 on miR-1287-5p/FSTL1 axis can regulate HBV-induced immu- fibrosis may be because FSTL1 can inhibit the Smad1/5/8- nosuppression and can be used as a potential therapeutic mediated BMP-4 signal transduction pathway, and stimu- target for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Fatty late the Smad2/3-mediated TGF-β1 signal transduction liver is the most common histological
