EBM Experimental Biology and MedicineGu et al.
KEYWORDS: liver, diseases, fibrosis, liver diseases, expression, tgf-, chronic, protein, role, cells, hcc, hepatic, signal, cirrhosis, hsc


therapeutic mediated BMP-4 signal transduction pathway, and stimu- target for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Fatty late the Smad2/3-mediated TGF-β1 signal transduction liver is the most common histological feature in chronic pathway, thereby destroying the balance of TGF-β/BMP.33 hepatitis C. Compared with HCV patients without steato- During nephrectomy, high-level expressions of circulating sis, a steatosis-enriched gene set associated with advanced FSTL1 can inhibit the formation of renal fibrosis by reduc- fibrosis, typically FSTL1, is identified in the biopsies of HCV ing the expression of collagen-I, collagen-III, TGF-β1, and patients with steatosis. Patients with advanced fibrosis had connective tissue growth factor. However, similar to its role higher Serum FSTL1 levels than those with steatosis (versus in inflammation, the effect of FSTL1 on fibrosis progresses to those without). Liver FSTL1 mRNA levels were also elevated exhibit the opposite effect.34 in murine chronic liver disease models.46 FSTL1 and liver diseases Liver cirrhosis FSTL1 is involved in many physiological and pathological processes and affects the occurrence and development of healing reaction caused by chronic liver injury resulting from various diseases. Furthermore, FSTL1 plays a major role various causes.47 It may develop into liver cirrhosis and, if in liver diseases, especially hepatic fibrosis and liver neo- not prevented, may lead to liver cancer and liver failure.48 plasms, and serves as a biomarker and therapeutic target for The common causes of liver cirrhosis include viral infec- these diseases (Figure 2). Therefore, FSTL1 may be helpful tion, ethanol, parasite infection, drug or chemical poison, for the diagnosis and treatment of liver diseases in the future. and autoimmune liver disease. These causes lead to chronic inflammation of the liver, followed by abnormal healing Chronic liver diseases response.49 Non-neoplastic chronic liver diseases include ALD, MAFLD, The activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSC) and exces- viral hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, and autoimmune liver dis- sive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) are two major ease. ALD, MAFLD, and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections processes in developing hepatic fibrosis.50 HSCs are liver- are more common in North America and Europe, whereas specific mesenchymal cells in the peri-sinusoidal space of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, HCV, MAFLD, and ALD liver. In normal liver, hepatic stellate cells contain many lipid are more common in Asia and Africa.35 droplets. HSC stores vitamin A in the form of retinol and Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the expresses glial fibrillary acidic protein
