EBM Experimental Biology and MedicineGu et al.
KEYWORDS: liver, diseases, fibrosis, liver diseases, expression, tgf-, chronic, protein, role, cells, hcc, hepatic, signal, cirrhosis, hsc


common in Asia and Africa.35 droplets. HSC stores vitamin A in the form of retinol and Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the expresses glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in a resting most common chronic liver diseases worldwide. International state.51 Under the stimulation of long-term liver pathogenic 196 Experimental Biology and Medicine Volume 248 February 2023 Figure 2. Upon various types of chronic injury, including that caused by alcohol, viral, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) are activated, the latter of which secrete abundant extracellular proteins that contribute to liver fibrosis. Untreated or relapsed fibrosis progresses to liver cirrhosis, which may eventually develop into liver cancer. factors, hepatic stellate cells are activated and transdiffer- mTOR, PI3K/AKT, and Rho/GTPase pathways. The study entiated into myofibroblasts.49 It is characterized by the up- found that TGF-β can promote the synthesis of various col- regulation of a-smooth muscle actin (a-SMA), desmin, and lagen components and tissue metalloprotein inhibitors by type I collagen, as well as the production of a large number HSC, and inhibit the synthesis of matrix metalloprotein- of extracellular matrix and fibrotic cytokines.52 Therefore, ases, causing the accumulation of extracellular matrix and hepatic stellate cells play a crucial role in the regression of leading to the occurrence of cirrhosis.53 TGF-β is a critical hepatic fibrosis. cytokine triggering canonical and non-canonical intracellu- The activation of the TGF-β signal transduction pathway lar pathways leading to activated HSC, macrophages with plays a central role in the regulation of hepatic fibrosis.34 variant polarization, and liver sinusoidal endothelial cell TGF-β1 is the most widely and most intensely investi- capillarization.54 TGF-β was reported to induce glycolysis, gated isoform in liver fibrogenesis. The canonical signal- and thus can be considered a driver of metabolic reprogram- ing pathway is initiated via phosphorylation of R-SMADs, ming in the activation process of HSC. Furthermore, reactive that is, SMAD2 and SMAD3. The non-canonical SMAD- oxygen species (ROS) plays crucial roles in liver fibrosis and independent pathways are activated through MAPK, HSC activation, and TGF-β augments mitochondrial ROS Gu et al. Follistatin-like protein 1 in liver diseases 197 production by activating the mTOR pathway and reducing stage, portal vein invasion, and intrahepatic metastasis. the activity of complex III and IV.55 In addition, SMAD7 is an Furthermore, the overall survival rate of patients was nega- effective inhibitor of TGF-β signaling and is a key regulator tively correlated with the expression level
