EBM Experimental Biology and MedicineGu et al.
KEYWORDS: liver, diseases, fibrosis, liver diseases, expression, tgf-, chronic, protein, role, cells, hcc, hepatic, signal, cirrhosis, hsc


In addition, SMAD7 is an Furthermore, the overall survival rate of patients was nega- effective inhibitor of TGF-β signaling and is a key regulator tively correlated with the expression level of FSTL1, and a of TGF-β-induced fibrogenesis.56 high expression of FSTL1 is identified as an indicator of a FSTL1 can regulate hepatic fibrosis by affecting the TGF-β poor prognosis for HCC. FSTL1 inhibits tumor cell apoptosis signal transduction pathway. FSTL1 is significantly upregu- by the over-activation of protein kinase B (AKT)/glycogen lated in HSC activated by TGF-β1 stimulation, whereas the synthase kinase (GSK-3β) signal pathway, which increases knockout of FSTL1 can inhibit the phosphorylation of Smad3 the expression of Bcl-2 and downregulates the expression of in the TGF-β 1/Smad3 signal pathway, thereby attenuating Bcl-2-related X protein (BAX and Bim). Loh et al.64 found that the activation of HSCs and alleviating liver fibrosis. The plas- treating HCC cells and 3D organs derived from patients with mid verification experiment of MiR29a target gene 3’UTR recombinant FSTL1 or conditioned medium collected from demonstrated that FSTL1 is the direct target of miR29a. HSC or cells overexpressing FSTL1 can promote growth and There may be a TGF-β 1-miR29a-FSTL1 regulatory loop to metastasis HCC. FSTL1 binds to the TLR4 receptor, which regulate hepatic fibrosis through the TGF-β 1/Smad2/JNK leads to the activation of AKT/mTOR/4EBP1 signal path- signal pathway. FSTL1 can regulate the fibrosis degree of way. In a preclinical mouse model, inhibiting FSTL1 can hepatic stellate cells and hepatic fibrosis induced by CCL4 reduce the malignancy and metastasis of HCC, renders HCC by inhibiting the expression of miR29a, whereas blocking tumor sensitive to sorafenib, prolongs survival time, and FSTL1 signal transduction with neutralizing antibody can eradicates Tumor-initiating cells subsets. FSTL1 is a valu- upregulate the expression of miR29a in CCL4-treated mice.57 able new diagnostic, prognostic biomarker and therapeutic Xu et al.57 and other studies58 have demonstrated that target for HCC. FSTL1 is significantly upregulated in human and mouse activated HSCs and liver fibrosis. 4-Methyl umbrella ketone Cancer-associated fibroblasts (4MU) can downregulate the expression of FSTL1 in CCL4- Normal fibroblasts (NFs) are resting mesenchymal cells bur- induced liver fibrosis model mice, thereby inhibiting hya- ied in interstitial fibers. They can be activated environment- luronic acid (HA) deposition and reducing fiber formation dependent during wound healing, tissue inflammation, and and collagen deposition. In the study of the mechanism by organ fibrosis, and apoptosis occurs when the stimulation which
