EBM Experimental Biology and MedicineGu et al.
KEYWORDS: liver, diseases, fibrosis, liver diseases, expression, tgf-, chronic, protein, role, cells, hcc, hepatic, signal, cirrhosis, hsc


and reducing fiber formation dependent during wound healing, tissue inflammation, and and collagen deposition. In the study of the mechanism by organ fibrosis, and apoptosis occurs when the stimulation which FSTL1 regulates hepatic fibrosis, it was found that is removed. The HSC in the liver is activated into myofibro- FSTL1 regulates hepatic fibrosis by affecting the Smad2/c- blasts under the stimulation of chronic injury, which pro- Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signal transduction pathway. In motes the occurrence and development of hepatic fibrosis the mice with half-fold deletion of FSTL1 or the use of FSTL1 and even liver tumors.65 Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) neutralizing antibody to block the function of FSTL1 in CCL4- can promote the occurrence and development of tumor cells, induced liver fibrosis mice, Smad2/JNK signal pathway can which is an important part of the tumor microenvironment be inhibited and, simultaneously, the activation of HSCs can and plays a role by secreting various growth factors and also be inhibited, ECM deposition can be decreased, and the cytokines.66 It can cause malignant tumors and participate in degree of liver fibrosis can be alleviated. Furthermore, FSTL1 their development. For HCC, liver cirrhosis is carcinogenic, may affect the senescence and apoptosis of HSCs through and CAF’s involvement in carcinogenesis is supported.67 the PI3K-AKT and MAPK signaling pathways, thereby FSTL1 expression in healthy liver tissues is very low but sig- affecting liver fibrosis.13 Rao’s group demonstrated the role nificantly increased in activated HSCs cells and liver fibrosis of macrophage FSTL1 in liver fibrosis. Macrophage FSTL1 tissues. In cirrhotic liver tissues, the expression of FSTL1 is promotes the progression of liver fibrosis by inducing M1 co-located with the expression of α-SMA and is higher than polarization and inflammation based on the intracellular that in normal liver tissues, indicating that FSTL1 plays a PKM2 reprogramming function of macrophages.59 crucial role in activating HSC.13 Studies have revealed that fibroblasts, especially CAF in the tumor matrix, are the main Hepatocellular carcinoma sources of FSTL1. There is a significant correlation between FSTL1 and CAF features of HCC. Recently, CAF has received Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the highest inci- increasing attention as a new target for anticancer therapy. dences of malignant tumors worldwide and is also a cancer type with extremely high mortality.60 In 2020, liver cancer Concluding remarks accounted for 4.7% of new cancer cases and 8.3% of deaths.61 Nearly half of the world’s new cases and
