Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


ABSTRACT Neuroendocrine (NE) cells are rare epithelial cells that, in addition to having an endocrine function, express markers and peptides otherwise associated with neurons and the central nervous system. NE cells can be found as either single cells or small clusters of cells dispersed throughout the parenchymal surface epithelium of different tissues, including the lung, the intestine, and the pancreas. The observation that NE cells, which are dispersed throughout the body in different tissue sites, are often innervated and secrete bioactive compounds that can act both locally and systemically, led to the idea of the diffuse neuroendocrine system, a diffuse hormonal system composed of NE cells. NE cells perform important endocrine functions. Furthermore, NE cells are implicated in several human diseases. In particular, a group of rare tumors that presumably arise from NE cells, neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs), have sparked a great deal of interest in NE cell biology. NENs can arise in almost all tissues but they show the highest incidence in the lung and the gastroenteropancreatic (GEP) system. In this chapter, we will outline what is currently known about NE cell differentiation and function, focusing specifically on NE cells of the lung, pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNECs), and the most prominent NE cells of the GEP system: enteroendocrine cells (EECs) of the small intestine and stomach and pancreatic endocrine cells. We will also discuss the potential role of these specific NE cells in the context of tissue injury. Finally, we will provide a brief overview of NEN biology with regards to NENs arising in the lung and GEP system. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Neuroendocrine (NE) cells are epithelial cells that, in addition to having an endocrine function, express markers and peptides otherwise associated with neurons and the central nervous system ( 1 , 2 ). NE cells can be defined by the presence of dense secretory granules and the expression of general NE markers including chromogranin A and synaptophysin. The first identified NE cells were the enterochromaffin (EC) cells of the small intestine, whose distinctive shape and histological properties piqued the interest of scientists during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. In particular, dense secretory granules within NE cells hint to their endocrine function. These secretory granules also make NE cells reactive to chromium and silver, which makes them easy to identify using histological staining
