Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


granules within NE cells hint to their endocrine function. These secretory granules also make NE cells reactive to chromium and silver, which makes them easy to identify using histological staining methods. Throughout their history, NE cells in the intestine have been referred to in the literature with a variety of names recalling their distinct reactions to histological stains: clear cells (did not pick up conventional stains), chromaffin cells (reacted to chromium salts), argentaffin cells (affinity for silver stains), and Kulchitsky cells (in honor of one of the scientists who studied them) ( 3 , 4 ). Following the description of NE cells in the intestine, histological studies revealed the presence of NE cells not only throughout the intestinal mucosa, but also in other epithelial tissues ( 1 – 8 ). NE cells can be found as either single cells or small, often innervated clusters of cells dispersed throughout the parenchymal surface epithelium of different tissues, including the small intestine, the lung, and the urogenital tract. As is the case for the cells of the pancreatic islets of Langerhans, the C cells of the thyroid, and adrenal medullary cells, NE cells can also form distinct clusters of cells within endocrine glands. In 1938, drawing on his histological studies of NE cells in the pancreas and intestine, Friederich Feyrter proposed that NE cells comprise a diffuse neuroendocrine system. Nearly 30 years later, Anthony Pearse refined this idea of the diffuse neuroendocrine system by showing that NE cells, much like neurons, are able to metabolize amines and produce polypeptide hormones. Thus, the concept of a diffuse neuroendocrine system that functions as a diffuse hormonal system and is composed of cells dispersed throughout the body that, through the secretion of bioactive compounds, communicate in a coordinated fashion with their surroundings and with the nervous system solidified ( 8 , 9 ). Famously, Pearse also suggested that NE cells are all derived from the neural crest. This hypothesis, however, was later disproved by several elegant lineage tracing experiments. With the exception of the cells of the adrenal medulla, the extra-adrenal paraganglia, and C cells of thyroid, which are indeed derived from the neural crest, different types of NE cells are derived from the epithelial progenitors of their respective tissue sites ( 3 ). While the specific function of pancreatic islet cells, the cells of the adrenal medulla, and C cells of the thyroid, for example,
