Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


of their respective tissue sites ( 3 ). While the specific function of pancreatic islet cells, the cells of the adrenal medulla, and C cells of the thyroid, for example, have been well-established both in terms of their contribution to specific organ function and the maintenance of homeostasis; the specific functions of other NE cells are less well defined. Furthermore, the list of polypeptide hormones and neuropeptides secreted by NE cells is continuously being updated and further refined. Studies that elucidate the developmental differentiation trajectories of NE cells from different tissues have expanded the list of common NE marker genes so that it no longer includes only hormones and neuropeptides but also lineage specific transcription factors. A summary of common NE markers is provided in Table 1 . Table 1. Common NE Markers View in own window NE Marker Function Associated NE cell types ASCL1 Transcription factor PNECs, some gastric EECs NEUROD1 Transcription factor GEP EECs INSM1 Transcription factor All NE cells Chromogranin A (CHGA)* Secretory protein All NE cells Synaptophysin (SYP)* Synaptic vesicle glycoprotein All NE cells NCAM1 (a.k.a. CD56)* Cell adhesion molecule All NE cells UCHL1 (a.k.a. PGP9.5)* Deubiquitinating enzyme All NE cells Neuron Specific Enolase (NSE)* Metabolic enzyme All NE cells * Indicates markers used in clinical diagnosis Much of the interest in NE cell biology has been initiated by observations that have been made regarding their behavior in disease. In particular, a group of rare tumors that presumably arise from NE cells, neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs), have sparked a great deal of interest in NE cell biology inasmuch as this might relate to the genesis and peculiar clinical behavior of some of these tumors. NENs have been observed in almost all tissues, and consist of well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors (NETs), tumors that proliferate and progress slowly, and neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs), poorly differentiated tumors that have a poor prognosis ( 10 ). While NENs were initially classified according to the embryological origin of their tissue site of incidence (i.e., foregut, midgut, or hindgut), they are now referred to according to their specific tissue site of origin and, in the case of tumors that elicit hormonal syndromes, according to the primary hormone they secrete. NENs show the highest incidence in the lung and the gastroenteropancreatic (GEP) system ( Figure 1 ). For this reason, as outlined above, while there are many different kinds of NE cells arising in many different
