Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


the lung and the gastroenteropancreatic (GEP) system ( Figure 1 ). For this reason, as outlined above, while there are many different kinds of NE cells arising in many different tissue sites, for the purposes of this chapter, we will focus on the NE cells of the lung, pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNECs), and the most prominent NE cells of the GEP system: enteroendocrine cells (EECs) of the small intestine and stomach, and pancreatic islet cells or pancreatic endocrine cells (pECs). These cells are key components of the body’s diffuse hormonal system ( Table 2 ). Figure 1. Occurrence of the most common types of neuroendocrine neoplasms. The occurrence of the main types of neuroendocrine tumors presented as the percentage of all NENs ( 315 , 441 ). GI-NENs represent the largest subgroup of NENs, followed by lung and pancreatic NENs. Subtypes not listed in this figure include NENs from the thyroid, kidney, adrenal gland, breast, prostate and skin. Table 2. Types of NE cells and Their Tissue Site View in own window NE cell type Tissue site Predominant hormone PNEC lung numerous (see text) Alpha cells Pancreas Glucagon Beta cells Pancreas Insulin Gamma/ PP cells Pancreas PPY Delta cells Pancreas Somatostatin Epsilon cells Pancreas (during development) Ghrelin G cells Stomach, duodenum, pancreas Gastrin D cells Stomach, small intestine Somatostatin Enterochromaffin cells (EC) cells Stomach, small intestine, colon Serotonin (5-HT) EC-like (ECL) cells Stomach Histamine X and X/A cells Stomach (mainly), small intestine Ghrelin L-I-N lineage cells Small intestine (distal), Colon (L cells) GLP-1, GLP-2, PYY, serotonin (L-cells), CCK, serotonin (I cells), NTS (N cells) K cells Small intestine (proximal) GIP, serotonin PULMONARY NEUROENDOCRINE CELLS (PNECS) Pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNECs), the neuroendocrine cells of the lung, are prominent constituents of the diffuse neuroendocrine system. Although PNECs account for only 0.5% of the lung epithelium, their distinct morphological and histological staining properties, which are shared with the majority of NE cells, led to their prominence in early histological studies of the lung ( 11 ). First described in 1949 as “helle zellen” (‘bright cells’ in German), it was later appreciated that PNECs contain secretory granules and that they produce and secrete bioactive compounds, including serotonin ( 12 – 14 ). PNECs were thus added to the growing list of NE cells that make up the diffuse neuroendocrine system. PNECs are found both as single cells within the lung parenchyma and as small
