Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


thus added to the growing list of NE cells that make up the diffuse neuroendocrine system. PNECs are found both as single cells within the lung parenchyma and as small clusters, called neuroendocrine bodies (NEBs) ( Figure 2A ) ( 15 ). In mammalian lung tissue, NEBs are distinctly located next to airway bifurcation points of the branching airways. Solitary PNECs, on the other hand, show a more divergent pattern of localization between species. Whereas in mice, solitary PNECs are mostly found in the trachea, in human lung tissue, they can be found throughout the airways. A distinct feature of PNECs is their direct innervation ( 16 ). Figure 2. Pulmonary Neuroendocrine Cells (PNECs) in the upper airways. (A) Schematic depicting epithelial cell types found in the upper airways. Solitary PNECs and innervated Neuroendocrine Bodies (NEBs) are shown. (B) Diagram of signaling and transcription factor interactions that regulate PNEC differentiation. Although the precise function of PNECs is not well-defined, their preservation across evolution -- similar cell types are found in fish gills and in all air-breathing vertebrates -- suggest an important physiological function ( 17 – 19 ). Furthermore, the position at airway bifurcation points of PNECs, their contact with the airway lumen, and innervation suggest a role in airway sensing. The bioactive compounds, hormones, and neuropeptides that PNECs secrete are known to affect oxygen sensing, pulmonary blood flow and bronchial tonus, and lung immune responses. The bioactive compounds secreted by PNECs include serotonin, calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP), chromogranin A, gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), and synaptophysin, clearly suggesting an endocrine function for these cells ( 20 – 23 ). A summary of the hormones and neuropeptides expressed by PNECs and other NE cells discussed in this text is included in Table 3 . Table 3. NE Cell Expressed Hormones View in own window Hormone Associated NE cell types Reported function in described NE cell types Calcitonin PNEC pulmonary blood flow and bronchial tonus Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) PNEC vasoregulation, bronchoprotection, immune cell recruitment Gastrin releasing peptide (GRP) PNEC Regulates mucus and cytokine production upon inflammation or inflammation-associated processes Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) PNEC and pECs Regulates mucus and cytokine production upon inflammation or inflammation-associated processes Somatostatin (SST) PNECs and GEP NE cells (D cells) Inhibits secretion of insulin, glucagon, PYY, serotonin, and gastrin Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) PNECs and GEP EECs Acts as a neurotransmitter, an
