Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


of Ascl1 is followed by two key events that appear to happen in parallel: the formation of NEBs and the maturation of early Ascl1 expressing cells to fully differentiated PNECs. Using a lineage trace of Ascl1 -positive cells in mouse embryonic lung, Kuo and Krasnow observed the first signs of PNEC clustering at around E13.5 to E14, followed by the appearance of bonafide NEBs, which contained mature PNECs at around E15.5 to E16 ( 25 ). In human fetal lungs PNEC clustering was first observed at about 9 to 10 weeks of gestation ( 28 ). Although one might imagine that the formation of NEBs is likely achieved through proliferation of nascent PNECs, a different mechanism has been shown to be at play. Sparse lineage tracing of early fetal Ascl1-positive PNECs in mice using a multi-color lineage reporter showed that NEBs contained either different colored cells or a single labeled cell and multiple unlabeled cells, arguing that the PNECs in NEBs are not clonal ( 25 ). Live cell imaging of fetal mouse lung tissue showed that NEBs are formed through the migration and subsequent aggregation of PNECs at airway branchpoints ( 25 , 29 ). This process appears to be regulated by Slit-Roundabout (ROBO) signaling, a pathway more classically associated with axonal guidance ( 30 ). PNECs express the ROBO receptor and the lungs of mice where the Slit-ROBO pathway has been disrupted by mutation of either the Slit ligands or the ROBO receptor itself, have fewer NEBs and more solitary PNECs than the lungs of wildtype mice ( 21 ). Concomitant with NEB formation, the transcriptional events initiated by expression of Ascl1 culminate in the emergence of fully differentiated, functional PNECs. In particular, expression of Ascl1 in lung progenitors induces expression of the zinc finger transcription factor, INSM1. PNECs in mice carrying mutant alleles of Insm1 fail to express the mature PNEC markers, CGRP and UCHL1 (ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1, a.k.a. PGP9.5). While the INSM1 targets that mediate the PNEC maturation process have not been delineated, INSM1 has been shown to directly repress the bHLH transcription factor and Notch target gene, Hes1 ( Figure 2B ) ( 31 ). HES1 and other Notch signaling components play crucial roles in repressing the differentiation and specification of PNECs and, thereby, in mediating the NE versus non-NE cell fate choice. The lungs of mice in which Hes1 has been conditionally deleted
