Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


in repressing the differentiation and specification of PNECs and, thereby, in mediating the NE versus non-NE cell fate choice. The lungs of mice in which Hes1 has been conditionally deleted in early lung progenitors have more ASCL1-positive cells and, in particular, fewer solitary PNECs, showing instead more and larger NEBs compared to the lungs of wildtype mice ( 29 ). The increased size of NEBs in Hes1 -deficient lungs suggests a mechanism of cell fate specification through Notch-mediated lateral inhibition whereby Notch is activated in PNEC neighboring cells through binding of Notch receptors to the Notch ligands expressed on the surface of PNECs themselves. The activated Notch signaling in these PNEC neighboring cells induces expression of Hes1 , which in turn represses the PNEC fate. PNECs express the Notch ligands Dll1, Dll4, Jag1, and Jag2 shortly after their specification during lung development and the cells surrounding PNECs in NEBs express Notch receptors ( 32 ). Genetic loss of either all three Notch receptors or Dll1 and Dll4 Notch ligands in the developing mouse lung leads to a dramatic increase in the number and size of NEBs, phenocopying conditional deletion of Hes1 ( 32 , 33 ) . In cultures of human airway cells derived from induced pluripotent stem cells, inhibition of Notch signaling leads to increased numbers of PNECs ( 34 , 35 ). As we will discuss in other parts of this text, two other bHLH transcription factors, NEUROG3 and NEUROD1 have been shown to play central roles in the differentiation of EECs and pancreatic islet cells. In contrast, as of yet, there is little evidence that these transcription factors are decisive for PNEC specification or differentiation. To date, Neurog3 expression has not been described in PNECs. While Neurod1 expression has been observed in some PNECs in both fetal and adult mouse lung, a limited number of studies have investigated its specific role in the PNEC lineage ( 27 , 36 ). Neurod1 -null mouse lungs from mice less than 2 weeks old showed decreased numbers of solitary PNECs and more NEBs compared to lungs from age-matched wild type mice. However, this difference normalized once mutant mice were 6 weeks old ( 36 ). As will be discussed later on in this text, NEUROD1 is a marker of a subtype of the high-grade lung NEN, small cell lung cancer (SCLC), suggesting it might also play a role in normal
