Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


on in this text, NEUROD1 is a marker of a subtype of the high-grade lung NEN, small cell lung cancer (SCLC), suggesting it might also play a role in normal PNEC biology. Reactive PNEC Proliferations: PNECs in the Response to Lung Injury Multiple studies have shown that PNEC numbers and NEB size are altered in several human disease conditions. Increased numbers of PNECs have been observed in the lungs of patients with COPD, asthma, cystic fibrosis, and some forms of pneumonia. Other pathological conditions associated with increased PNECs include sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), and congenital diaphragmatic hernias (CDH) ( 15 ). Studies in animal models and PNEC culture systems provide experimental evidence that PNECs respond to environmental stimuli by both proliferation and/or secretion of bioactive compounds. The early observation that murine PNECs proliferate in response to a common form of experimental lung injury, naphthalene administration, and that this proliferation precedes epithelial lung regeneration, led to the hypothesis that PNECs are multipotent stem cells that aid in lung regeneration ( 37 ). Indeed, lineage tracing studies of PNECs following naphthalene induced lung injury showed that a rare subpopulation of PNECs, termed NE stem , can function as stem cells in this context ( 38 ). In response to naphthalene, NE stem cells proliferate and sometimes migrate to the site of injury where they dedifferentiate (lose NE identity) and take on other lung cell fates. The process of dedifferentiation and reprogramming was shown to be mediated by Notch signaling, recalling the role of this pathway in PNEC fate specification, and by EZH2 ( 38 , 39 ). Nonetheless, NE stem cells are not solely responsible for regenerating the lung after injury, as they were shown to contribute only to a small portion of the regenerated surface epithelium ( 38 ). Furthermore, genetic ablation of PNECs does not abrogate lung regeneration following naphthalene injury ( 23 , 39 ). In thinking about PNECs as components of a diffuse hormonal system, two questions arise from the studies of PNECs in the context of naphthalene lung injury. The first is, how do PNECs detect injury? Club cells, which express cytochrome P450 2F2 (Cyp2f2), metabolize naphthalene to a toxic metabolite and the accumulation of this toxic metabolite leads to cell death specifically in these cells ( 40 ). Given that PNECs proliferate at time points shortly after peak Club cell injury, it
