Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


accumulation of this toxic metabolite leads to cell death specifically in these cells ( 40 ). Given that PNECs proliferate at time points shortly after peak Club cell injury, it is likely that they are responding to the Club cell injury and not to the naphthalene itself. Consistent with this hypothesis, selective ablation of Club cells using genetic ablation techniques also resulted in PNEC proliferation ( 41 ). Nonetheless, injury associated signals that are specific to PNECs and their responses have not been identified. The second question that arises is, besides functioning as stem cells, do PNECs have an endocrine or paracrine/autocrine function in the context of lung injury? Although this question has not been explored in the naphthalene injury model, evidence from other model systems and from human diseases suggest that PNECs respond to some forms of lung injury or disease through the secretion of bioactive compounds. Cigarette smoke, a common culprit of lung injury, provides a good example. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid from smokers has increased levels of peptides secreted by PNECs, implicating these cells in the cellular response to cigarette smoke in humans ( 42 ). The PNEC-secreted bioactive compounds associated with this response include GABA and GRP, and both of these molecules have been implicated in inflammation and inflammation-associated processes ( 42 , 43 ). It is likely that PNEC proliferation is also involved in the response to cigarette smoke and its primary component, nicotine. Increased PNECs have been observed in rats exposed to cigarette smoke pre- and postnatally and in rhesus monkeys exposed to nicotine prenatally ( 44 , 45 ). Pointing to a critical role for PNECs in oxygen sensing in the lung, hypoxia and hypoxia-mimicking genetic modifications have been shown to result in higher numbers of PNECs in mice, rats, rabbits, and guinea pigs ( 22 , 46 – 49 ). Shortly after showing that the distinct dense cored vesicles of PNECs carried serotonin, Lauweryns and Cokelaere went on to show that this serotonin was secreted by PNECs upon exposure to hypoxia ( 14 , 49 ). This finding was further refined and shown to be dependent on changes in intracellular Ca 2+ concentrations using cultured rabbit and hamster lung slices ( 50 , 51 ). Serotonin release by PNECs is likely a physiologically relevant functional response to hypoxia as serotonin has been shown to induce vasoconstriction of pulmonary arteries ( 52 ).
