Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


, 51 ). Serotonin release by PNECs is likely a physiologically relevant functional response to hypoxia as serotonin has been shown to induce vasoconstriction of pulmonary arteries ( 52 ). Increased expression in PNECs of the neuropeptide, CGRP, has also been linked to hypoxia ( 46 , 53 ). CGRP has been implicated in promoting alveolar regeneration and in mediating immune cell responses in the lung ( 21 , 54 ). Importantly, results from a study by Shivaraju et al. linked the expression of CGRP by PNECs to the hypoxia-induced regenerative response of epithelial cells in the trachea. When the authors ablated PNECs and exposed mice to hypoxia, they observed a defective regenerative response that could be rescued by intranasal administration of CGRP ( 46 ). PNECs appear to also respond to hyperoxia-induced lung injury. Patients with BPD, a chronic lung disease associated with oxygen supplementation of premature infants, have increased numbers of GRP-expressing PNECs ( 55 ). In a baboon model of BPD, some of the lung defects associated with the disease could be prevented by treatment of the animals with a GRP blocking antibody, demonstrating that GRP is directly linked to the disease phenotype ( 56 ). GRP also plays a role in the lung’s response to viral pneumonia and in the fibrotic response to radiation therapy ( 57 , 58 ). There is clear evidence for a close interplay between PNECs and immune cells. In particular, the effector molecules secreted by PNECs can recruit and activate different populations of immune cells. In one of the first studies to show this, researchers developed a mouse model of CDH, a birth defect that results in pulmonary hypoplasia and pulmonary hypertension ( 21 ). CDH is associated with both a heightened immune response and increased numbers of PNECs ( 59 ). To study CDH, since point mutations in SLIT and ROBO genes are associated with the disease, Branchfield et al. generated mice with lung-specific deletions of the roundabout receptors, Robo1 and Robo2 . When Robo1 and Robo2 were deleted in the entire lung epithelium the authors noted elevated immune cell infiltration in the lung, thus mimicking one of the features of CDH. When Robo1 and Robo2 were deleted only in PNECs, the mice displayed the same phenotype, directly linking the defect to PNECs. Interestingly, ROBO1- and ROBO2-deficient PNECs have increased levels of CGRP and knockout of the gene encoding CGRP
