Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


PNECs, the mice displayed the same phenotype, directly linking the defect to PNECs. Interestingly, ROBO1- and ROBO2-deficient PNECs have increased levels of CGRP and knockout of the gene encoding CGRP partly reversed the immune and lung phenotypes of mice deficient for ROBO1 and ROBO2 in the lung epithelium. A potential immune regulatory role for PNECs is also suggested by the observation that PNEC numbers are elevated in patients with asthma and that more chromogranin A-positive PNECs are seen in guinea pigs after allergen sensitization and challenge ( 60 ). Mice deficient of PNECs due to deletion of Ascl1 in the lung epithelium, show a dampened response to allergen challenge -- reduced goblet cell hyperplasia and reduced immune cell infiltration -- and this was tied directly to reduced levels of PNEC-derived GABA and CGRP, respectively ( 61 ). Diseases of Primary PNEC Hyperplasia: NEHI and DIPNECH Up to now we have highlighted instances of increased PNEC number or NEB size that appear to be consequent to or at least associated with some forms of acute or underlying lung injury. These examples are instructive in that they point to a role for PNECs and the molecules they secrete in mediating the response to external stimuli and injury in the lung. Save for lung NENs, which will be discussed in further detail later in this text, there are two notable clinical instances of primary -- as opposed to reactive -- PNEC proliferation that have no known etiology and are not associated with common pathogenic triggers: neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia of infancy (NEHI) and diffuse idiopathic neuroendocrine hyperplasia (DIPNECH). NEHI is a rare pediatric lung disease consisting histologically of hyperplastic GRP-positive and serotonin-positive PNECs in the distal lung epithelium of otherwise normal lung tissue. Symptoms are usually first noted between 6 to 8 months of life and include tachypnea, retractions, crackles and hypoxemia ( 62 ). In some cases, patients with NEHI show an inconspicuous, patchy pattern of inflammation or fibrosis, generally assumed to be a consequence of the increased PNEC numbers rather than its cause ( 63 ). Interestingly, despite increased PNEC numbers in the lungs of patients with NEHI, from a study on a small patient cohort (5 patients), it appeared that PNECs were not actively proliferating in the lungs of these patients as no Ki67 and GRP double positivity was observed ( 63 ). Unfortunately, treatment for patients with NEHI are currently
