Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


were not actively proliferating in the lungs of these patients as no Ki67 and GRP double positivity was observed ( 63 ). Unfortunately, treatment for patients with NEHI are currently limited to supportive oxygen supplementation and, in some cases, additional nutritional support. The majority of NEHI patients show gradual improvement of symptoms and the disease is not associated with mortality. Nonetheless, recent reports show that some patients experience abnormal lung function persisting into adulthood ( 62 , 64 , 65 ). While the etiology of this disease remains unknown, there are indications of a genetic basis for the disease. One study identified four families with multiple members diagnosed with NEHI and showing an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance ( 66 ). Another study identified a heterozygous mutation in the NKX2.1 gene in members of a family with a history of childhood lung disease consistent with NEHI ( 67 ). DIPNECH is a rare syndrome with adult onset consisting histologically of increased PNECs in the small bronchi and bronchioles and confined to the basement membrane, appearing as scattered PNECs, small nodules, or a linear proliferation of PNECs ( 68 ). These features are often seen in concomitance with what are referred to as tumorlets, PNEC proliferations that extend beyond the basement membrane but are less than 5 mm in diameter ( 69 ). Other histological features include fibrosis, chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate, and constrictive obliterative bronchiolitis. The majority of patients with DIPNECH are women and the disease is not associated with smoking or other lung diseases. Patients diagnosed with DIPNECH often present with symptoms including cough, exertional dyspnea and an obstructive or mixed obstructive/restrictive defect on pulmonary function test. A small number of patients with DIPNECH are diagnosed due to incidental findings ( 69 ). DIPNECH was first recognized and formally defined in 1992 by Aguayo et al., who described the symptoms and histological features of 6 DIPNECH patients ( 42 ). While DIPNECH is considered a disease of primary rather than reactive PNEC proliferation, cases associated with parathyroid gland hyperplasia, acromegaly and pituitary adenoma, multiple endocrine neoplasia type I syndrome, and pulmonary adenocarcinoma have been reported ( 70 – 72 ). The World Health Organization (WHO) classifies DIPNECH as a preinvasive, possibly preneoplastic condition ( 73 ). Most patients with DIPNECH have multiple PNEC nodules, sometimes including both tumorlets and frank low grade lung NET (carcinoid) tumors ( 70 ).
