Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


preinvasive, possibly preneoplastic condition ( 73 ). Most patients with DIPNECH have multiple PNEC nodules, sometimes including both tumorlets and frank low grade lung NET (carcinoid) tumors ( 70 ). In contrast to NEHI where Ki67-positive PNECs were not observed, the PNEC proliferations in DIPNECH patients contain some Ki67-positive cells ( 63 , 74 ). While patients with DIPNECH most often follow a clinical course showing stability or slowly progressing functional decline, a small subset of patients have rapidly progressive disease including progression to respiratory failure or metastatic carcinoid tumors ( 70 , 75 ). To date, there is no standard of care for DIPNECH and the most effective treatment strategy for patients with DIPNECH are somatostatin analogues (SSAs), which have shown effectiveness in improving symptoms of cough and dyspnea in some patients ( 76 – 78 ). Considering that it has been well-established that SSAs inhibit the secretion of bioactive compounds from gastrointestinal NETs, the effectiveness of SSAs in treating cough and dyspnea in patients with DIPNECH suggests these symptoms are caused by the secretion of bioactive compounds by DIPNECH PNECs ( 79 ). Lung NENs Lung NENs account for 20-25% of all lung cancers and for 25-30% of NENs from all tissue sites ( 80 , 81 ). As is the case for NENs in general, lung NENs comprise both low grade, well-differentiated NETs and high grade, poorly differentiated NECs. Lung NENs can thus be subdivided into the high-grade carcinomas, small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas (LCNEC), and the low-grade tumors, atypical carcinoids (AC), classified as intermediate grade, and typical carcinoids (TC), classified as low grade. SMALL CELL LUNG CANCER (SCLC) The most common lung NEN, SCLC, accounts for 79% of all lung NENs and 30% of all lung cancers and is also the best studied among lung NENs ( 82 ). Consistent with its classification as NEC, SCLC is a highly aggressive tumor with a high rate of metastasis and a 10-year survival rate of only 1-2% ( 83 ). Among patients with SCLC, 97% have a history of smoking ( 18 ). While rare, patients with SCLC sometimes experience paraneoplastic endocrine syndromes, most commonly a syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) and ectopic Cushing’s syndrome ( 84 ). Studies of SCLC biology have been aided by a collection of tumor-derived cell lines, several patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models, and genetically engineered mouse models
