Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


ectopic Cushing’s syndrome ( 84 ). Studies of SCLC biology have been aided by a collection of tumor-derived cell lines, several patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models, and genetically engineered mouse models (GEMMs) of the disease ( 85 – 87 ). These preclinical model systems have allowed scientists to address questions in two key areas: the cell of origin of SCLC and molecular signatures predictive of therapeutic vulnerabilities. Genetically, SCLC is a relatively homogeneous disease -- RB1 and TP53 are both almost universally lost in patient tumors ( 88 ). Conditional simultaneous genetic deletion of Rb1 and p53 in the mouse epithelium results in tumors that recapitulate many of the key features of the human disease at both the histological and molecular levels ( 87 , 89 – 91 ). Targeting the deletion of Rb1 and p53 to specific epithelial cell types in the lung provided definitive evidence that Cgrp-expressing PNECs are a cell of origin for tumors in this model ( 23 , 92 ). However, PNECs are not the only epithelial lung cell type that can be a cell of origin for mouse SCLC. A separate study showed that an, as of yet, unidentified CGRP-negative cell that is also negative for the canonical markers of two other common lung epithelial cell types gives rise to mouse SCLC lesions that are molecularly distinct from those initiated in CGRP-positive PNECs ( 93 ). Genomic analysis of human and mouse SCLC primary tumors and cell lines has revealed commonly mutated genes and pathways, most notably loss of PTEN, NOTCH, and histone modification genes, and amplification of MYC family oncogenes ( 88 , 90 , 91 ). Several studies focused on metastasis in mouse SCLC have highlighted the role of NFIB in driving progression of some of these tumors, and data from human patients with SCLC support the clinical relevance of these findings ( 94 – 96 ). These studies, in combination with preclinical testing in mouse models and cell lines have suggested some degree of patient stratification. In particular, high expression of MYC is associated with tumor sensitivity to Aurora Kinase inhibitors ( 97 ). The standard treatment regimen for patients with SCLC is a combination therapy of a platinum agent combined with etoposide ( 82 ). Despite a clinical response to these therapies in the majority of patients, almost all patients will then experience tumor recurrence ( 83 ). The analysis of
