Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


etoposide ( 82 ). Despite a clinical response to these therapies in the majority of patients, almost all patients will then experience tumor recurrence ( 83 ). The analysis of the transcriptomes of both mouse and human SCLC tumors and cell lines has identified 4 molecular subtypes of SCLC, defined by their expression (or lack of expression) of 3 lineage-specific transcription factors: ASCL1 high, NEUROD1 high, POU2F3 high, and a fourth subtype that has low expression of NE transcription factors and has been proposed to be defined by expression of YAP1. A more recent study suggests a classification in which this fourth subtype is defined by expression of immune checkpoint genes and human leukocyte antigens ( 98 , 99 ). It has been hypothesized that the cell of origin for the POU2F3 high subtype of SCLC might be the pulmonary tuft cell, another chemosensory cell type in the lung distinct from PNECs ( 100 , 101 ). Importantly, several studies using preclinical models of SCLC suggest that these molecular classifications can be used to stratify patients according to potential therapeutic vulnerabilities ( 102 ). Adding complexity to this schema, single cell RNAseq studies of mouse SCLC and of xenografts derived from circulating tumor cells from SCLC patients suggest that different molecular subtypes might represent different stages of progression where tumors begin in an ASCL1-high state and progress towards a non-NE state and that individual tumors might comprise cells belonging to different subtypes ( 101 , 103 ). Several studies have also shown other forms of intratumor heterogeneity in SCLC that have implications for patient therapy ( 104 – 106 ). Other new therapies suggested for SCLC include tricyclic antidepressants, therapies that target specific metabolic vulnerabilities, and therapies targeting the GNAS/ PKA/PP2A signaling axis ( 107 – 109 ). LARGE CELL NEUROENDOCRINE CARCINOMA (LCNEC) Pulmonary LCNEC is less common than SCLC, accounting for 16% of all lung NENs ( 82 ). Like SCLC, pulmonary LCNECs are highly metastatic and are associated with smoking history and with an overall 5-year survival rate ranging from 15% to 25% ( 110 ). In contrast to SCLC, however, there are relatively few preclinical models for LCNEC and we know much less about the basic biology of this disease. This might partly explain why guidelines for treating patients with LCNEC are rather rudimentary ( 82 , 111 ). Pathohistological analysis of tumors from GEMMs of SCLC
