Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


of this disease. This might partly explain why guidelines for treating patients with LCNEC are rather rudimentary ( 82 , 111 ). Pathohistological analysis of tumors from GEMMs of SCLC found that a portion of the mouse tumors in these models had a histological pattern consistent with LCNEC. While these LCNEC tumors only accounted for 10% of the tumors from the GEMM in which only Rb1 and p53 were conditionally deleted in the lung epithelium, they were much more prominent in the GEMM in which Rb1 , p53 , and Pten were conditionally deleted specifically in CGRP-expressing PNECs ( 87 ). A different GEMM, based on loss of Rb1 and expression of mutant p53 alleles, also develops both SCLC and LCNEC mouse tumors ( 112 ). These GEMMs have, thus far, not been used to explore the biology specifically of LCNEC and doing so might present some technical challenges. Recently, the first GEMM specifically for LCNEC was reported. In this model, Rb1 , p53 , Pten , and Rbl1 were simultaneously deleted in the mouse lung epithelium, resulting in a tumor spectrum consisting primarily of LCNEC and low-grade NETs ( 113 ). The majority of insights into LCNEC have been provided by molecular analysis of primary patient tumor samples. The most comprehensive analysis, consisting of whole exome sequencing of 60 LCNEC tumors and RNA-sequencing expression analysis of 69 LCNEC tumors, highlighted the existence of two major molecular subtypes of LCNEC ( 114 ). Type I LCNECs had a higher rate of alterations in TP53 and STK11/KEAP1 and an NE expression profile defined by high expression of ASCL1 and DLL3 and low expression of NOTCH. Type II LCNECs had frequent mutations in RB1 and TP53 , therefore resembling SCLC at the genomic level. The expression profile of type II LCNECs, however, was distinct from SCLC and instead was defined as NE low, with low expression of ASCL1 and DLL3 but high expression of NOTCH. The description of these two molecular subtypes for LCNEC highlights a clinical conundrum relating to the treatment of patients with LCNEC: should they be treated with SCLC chemotherapy regimens or with chemotherapy regimens for non-NE non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) ( 111 )? The report of an SCLC-like subtype of LCNEC (type I) and a NSCLC-like subtype of LCNEC (type II), might suggest a way to stratify patients for different chemotherapy regimens. In line with this idea,
