Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


SCLC-like subtype of LCNEC (type I) and a NSCLC-like subtype of LCNEC (type II), might suggest a way to stratify patients for different chemotherapy regimens. In line with this idea, a retrospective analysis of LCNEC cases found that patients whose tumors either had wildtype RB1 or showed expression of RB1 protein had a better outcome when treated with a NSCLC chemotherapy regimen as opposed to a SCLC chemotherapy regimen ( 115 ). Other therapies beyond traditional chemotherapy regimens are also being explored for patients with LCNEC. One example that relates to patient stratification according to LCNEC subtype, which was defined in part by differential patterns of DLL3 expression, involves therapeutic strategies that use DLL3 to target tumor cells. Given that DLL3 is also expressed by some SCLC tumors, this also represents a potential therapeutic opportunity in SCLC. Although a DLL3-antibody conjugated to the DNA-damaging pyrrolobenzodiazepine dimer toxin did not provide a survival benefit in 2 phase 3 clinical trials, other DLL3 targeting approaches are being developed ( 116 ). In addition, several studies have uncovered potentially targetable molecular alterations in some LCNEC tumors, including activating EGFR mutations, FGFR1 amplifications, activating BRAF mutations, ALK rearrangements, and mutations affecting BDNF/TrkB signaling ( 114 , 117 – 119 ). Given that the majority of these targetable mutations have been identified in LCNEC tumors with wildtype RB1 , the question remains as to how best to treat patients with RB1 mutant LCNEC ( 120 ). LUNG NETS: TYPICAL AND ATYPICAL CARCINOIDS Lung NETs comprise low grade typical carcinoids (TC) and intermediate grade atypical carcinoids (AC), accounting for 5% and 0.5% of all lung NENs, respectively ( 82 ). TC and AC tend to present in younger patients than LCNEC and SCLC, and the majority of patients are women and non-smokers ( 121 ). Although the majority of lung NETs are sporadic and non-functional, a small percentage of patients with Lung NETs, 5% of TC and < 2% of AC, present with paraneoplastic syndromes including those associated with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH), histamine, and serotonin ( 122 , 123 ). Some of these are more commonly associated with metastatic lesions of TC or AC ( 123 ). Approximately 5% of lung NETs are associated with the familial cancer syndrome caused by germline mutations in multiple endocrine neoplasia gene type I ( MEN1 ). Interestingly, 5% to 10% of lung NETs are
