Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


NETs are associated with the familial cancer syndrome caused by germline mutations in multiple endocrine neoplasia gene type I ( MEN1 ). Interestingly, 5% to 10% of lung NETs are also associated with tumor multiplicity, a feature which might suggest a connection with either an unappreciated familial predisposition syndrome or with premalignant conditions such as DIPNECH ( 80 , 121 ). The overall 10-year survival rates for stage I TC and AC are comparable ranging from 98% to 91%, respectively. In the case of stage IV tumors, 10-year survival for TC patients is 49% but is only 18% for patients with AC ( 124 ). A distinguishing feature of TC and AC is their relatively slow growth. Indeed, the pathological criteria for diagnosing carcinoids are the number of mitoses per mm2 and the presence of absence of necrosis: < 2 mitoses per mm 2 and no necrosis for a diagnosis of TC, 2 to 10 mitoses per mm 2 and demonstration of necrosis for a diagnosis of AC ( 82 ). Morphologically, carcinoids typically contain small cells that show nested, rosette, and trabecular growth patterns with peripheral palisading ( 125 ). Complete surgical resection is the most common treatment for patients with TC and AC, and for the majority of these patients’ surgery is associated with a favorable survival prognosis. Unfortunately, however, a fraction of carcinoid tumors metastasizes, and tumor recurrence (even after apparent curative resection) has been reported in 1 to 6% and 14 to 29% of patients with TC and AC, respectively. Due to a highly variable time to relapse for patients with recurrence (0.2 to 12 years), the recommended follow-up period is 15 years ( 121 , 126 – 129 ). The reported incidence for lymph node metastasis for TC and AC is variable with rates ranging from 12% to 17% for patients with TC and from 35% to 64% for patients with atypical carcinoid ( 80 , 130 ). The incidence of distant metastases for both TC and AC is 3% and 21%, respectively ( 129 , 131 ). The incidence of tumor recurrence and metastasis calls attention to a clinical need for systemic treatment options for patients with TC and AC tumors that are unresectable, as well as for the need for effective adjuvant therapy options that can be offered to patients after surgery. Unfortunately, standard chemotherapy and radiotherapy regimens have proven to be mostly
