Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


as well as for the need for effective adjuvant therapy options that can be offered to patients after surgery. Unfortunately, standard chemotherapy and radiotherapy regimens have proven to be mostly ineffective in this patient population ( 80 ). The only treatment option shown to improve progression-free survival in patients with advanced and progressive TC and AC is the mTOR inhibitor everolimus ( 132 ). Other therapeutic options for patients with TC and AC that are not currently considered standard of care due to limited clinical trials, include somatostatin (SST) analogues and peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT), and temozolomide with or without capecitabine. Given that pulmonary carcinoids can express SST receptors, patients with these tumors can be potentially considered for palliative treatment with unlabeled or radiolabeled SST analogues. The lack of clarity regarding standard of care for patients with unresectable, metastatic, or recurrent TC and AC, points to an unmet need for not only new and effective systemic treatment strategies for these patients, but also for clear patient stratification criteria for predicting the probability of a response of a given patient tumor to specific therapeutic options. Furthermore, given the broad range of tumor malignancy for TC and AC, biomarkers that can predict the potential for tumor progression and metastasis or recurrence are also needed. Efforts to address these clinical needs have been hindered by both difficulties in performing molecular characterization of these tumors and by a dearth of preclinical models representative of the disease. Only a handful of cell lines exist for TC and AC and only one GEMM for TC and AC has been reported ( 133 , 134 ). In contrast to SCLC and LCNEC, pulmonary carcinoids have a low tumor mutational burden, have very few recurrent or characteristic mutations, and rarely contain “driver” mutations in known oncogenes. The most commonly mutated gene in pulmonary carcinoids is MEN1 , and up to 5 to 13% of patients with germline mutations of this gene are diagnosed with pulmonary carcinoids ( 135 – 137 ). The most commonly mutated class of genes in pulmonary carcinoids are chromatin remodeling genes, a category that includes MEN1 , PSIP1 , and ARID1A . Though prevalent in SCLC and LCNEC, mutations in RB1 and TP53 are rare in pulmonary carcinoids ( 135 , 136 ). Recurrent copy number alterations have also been identified in pulmonary carcinoids, including in genes that would imply targetable therapeutic vulnerabilities
