Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


are rare in pulmonary carcinoids ( 135 , 136 ). Recurrent copy number alterations have also been identified in pulmonary carcinoids, including in genes that would imply targetable therapeutic vulnerabilities such as, EGFR , MET , PDGFRB , AKT1/PKB , PIK3CA , FRAP1 , RICTOR , KRAS , and SRC ( 136 , 138 ) . Transcriptional and methylation analysis of primary pulmonary carcinoids has also revealed distinct subclasses of these tumors. Using multi-omics factor analysis (MOFA), Alcala et al. identified 3 molecular clusters, termed A1, A2, and B ( 139 ). While most of the tumors in clusters A1 and A2 were TC, tumors in cluster B were primarily classified as ACs. Tumors in cluster B had high expression of ANGPTL3 and ERBB4, were enriched for mutations in MEN1, and were associated with a worse overall survival. Consistent with a worse prognosis for patients with tumors in cluster B, tumors in this cluster also showed universal downregulation of the orthopedia homeobox protein gene, OTP , whose expression has previously been associated with an improved prognosis in patients with pulmonary carcinoids ( 126 ). A separate study performed a similar multi-omic analysis of an independent set of pulmonary carcinoids and also identified 3 molecular subtypes that they termed LC1, LC2, and LC3 ( 140 ). The concordance between the molecular subtypes identified in these two studies was shown through integration of the two datasets, further validating the use of these molecular classifications for pulmonary carcinoids ( 141 ). The molecular analysis of pulmonary carcinoids has provided evidence that supports the idea that a fraction of lung NENs may actually fall into a category that lies between G2 ACs and G3 NECs in terms of malignancy. While such a category is recognized in GEP-NENs and is termed well-differentiated G3 NET, its existence has only recently been suggested for lung NENs ( 142 ). The study by Alcala et al. identified a subgroup of ACs, termed “supra-carcinoids,” that showed the morphologic characteristics of pulmonary carcinoids, but whose transcriptional profile was closer to that of LCNECs ( 139 ). In their analysis of the transcriptional profiles of a series of LCNECs and ACs, Simbolo et al. identified 3 molecular clusters, C1, enriched for LCNECs, C3 enriched for ACs, and C2, which was mixed in terms of number of ACs and LCNECs and which showed intermediate molecular features ( 143 ). Finally, an earlier
