Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


LCNECs, C3 enriched for ACs, and C2, which was mixed in terms of number of ACs and LCNECs and which showed intermediate molecular features ( 143 ). Finally, an earlier study by Rektman et al. had identified 2 examples of what they referred to as “carcinoid-like” LCNEC tumors -- tumors that showed a clear carcinoid-like morphology and a molecular profile consistent with ACs (low tumor mutational burden and mutation in MEN1 ) but that had been classified as LCNEC due to a high proliferation rate ( 118 ). The supra-carcinoids in the Alcala et al. study showed a higher expression of MKI67 than other carcinoids in the series, supporting an idea that has been purported in the literature concerning a potential role for percent Ki67 positivity in identifying pulmonary carcinoids more likely to be associated with a poor prognosis ( 144 – 146 ). Typically, ACs show a Ki67 positivity rate of less than 20%. However, some tumors diagnosed as AC show rates between 20 and 50% ( 147 , 148 ). Likewise, as indicated by the “carcinoid-like” LCNEC tumors in the Rekhtman et al. study, some tumors that would otherwise be considered ACs, are diagnosed instead as LCNEC due to having a high proliferation rate ( 118 , 149 ). Furthermore, the comparison of proliferation rates between matched primary stage IV pulmonary carcinoids and metastases indicated an increased proliferation rate in 35% of the metastases, suggesting increased proliferation as a feature of progression ( 148 ). This idea is further supported by the observation that Ki67 positivity was heterogeneous in the analyzed tumors with some regions of the tumors showing hot-spots of increased proliferation compared to the rest of the tumor. Beyond Ki67 positivity, a list of defining features of supra-carcinoids or borderline pulmonary carcinoids/neuroendocrine carcinomas has yet to be established. ENDOCRINE CELLS IN THE GASTROENTEROPANCREATIC TRACT Together, the organs connected throughout the mouth to the anus are known as the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, and when the pancreas is included, these organs are collectively referred to as the gastroenteropancreatic (GEP) tract. Throughout the GEP tract endocrine cells can be found as either solitary cells, as is the case in the GI tract, or as innervated clusters, as is the case in the pancreas. Throughout the gastrointestinal (GI) tract the solitary endocrine cells, which have a slender, elongated shape, are referred to as enteroendocrine cells (EECs). This classification helps to
