Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


case in the pancreas. Throughout the gastrointestinal (GI) tract the solitary endocrine cells, which have a slender, elongated shape, are referred to as enteroendocrine cells (EECs). This classification helps to distinguish them from endocrine cells of other organs e.g., lung and pancreas. Despite representing only 1% of the gut epithelial cells, the large size of the intestinal epithelium makes it the body’s largest endocrine organ ( 150 , 151 ). Compared to the slender EECs of the GI tract, the pancreatic endocrine cells, dispersed as clusters (known as islets of Langerhans) throughout the organ, have a more pyramidal or round-oval shaped appearance. An adult human has millions of islets, which collectively correspond to roughly 2% of the pancreatic epithelium ( 152 , 153 ). These islets are highly vascularized, a feature that enables pancreatic hormones to travel via the bloodstream to reach their target organs. In fact, the pancreatic hormones act both locally and systemically, eliciting responses throughout the body, consequently affecting the overall metabolic state of the organism. The sections below will provide an overview of the endocrine cells of the GEP tract as components of both the diffuse neuroendocrine system and the body’s diffuse hormonal systems. GASTRIC ENDOCRINE CELLS The first major organ of the GI tract is the stomach, which, in humans, can be divided into 4 functionally distinct compartments. From proximal to distal; the cardia is the connective region between the esophagus and the stomach, the fundus stores undigested food and gases, the corpus is the largest compartment and performs the digestive action of the stomach, and, finally, the pylorus regulates gastric emptying ( Figure 3A ) ( 154 , 155 ). Figure 3. Gastric enteroendocrine cells. (A) Schematic showing the anatomical differences between the murine and human stomach (B) Schematic depicting epithelial cell types found in the gastric pylorus and corpus glands. Solitary gastric enteroendocrine cells are shown in orange. (C) Diagram of signaling and transcription factor interactions that regulate gastric enteroendocrine cell differentiation. Histologically, the stomach comprises tubular-shaped mucosal invaginations containing a pit region of primarily surface mucous cells, and a gland region. The latter is further subdivided into the isthmus, neck, and base ( Figure 3B ). The primary differentiated cell types of the stomach are: mucus-producing pit cells, chief cells, which secrete digestive enzymes, acid-secreting parietal cells, gastric tuft cells, whose function is ill defined, and gastric EECs. These cells are continuously
