Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


the stomach are: mucus-producing pit cells, chief cells, which secrete digestive enzymes, acid-secreting parietal cells, gastric tuft cells, whose function is ill defined, and gastric EECs. These cells are continuously formed throughout life, albeit at different rates, by progenitor cells located in the isthmus of the gland region ( 156 , 157 ). With the exception of the cardia, which primarily contains pit cells and scattered parietal cells, gastric EECs can be found in all of the compartments of the stomach. In the corpus and fundus EECs are located in the lower third of the glands. EECs in the pylorus are located in the neck region ( 158 ). Gastric EECs are divided into the following 5 main subtypes defined by their predominantly expressed hormone: G cells (gastrin), D cells (somatostatin), enterochromaffin (EC) (serotonin), EC-like (ECL) cells (histamine), and X/A cells (ghrelin) ( Figure 3C ) ( 159 ). While some gastric EEC subtypes overlap with those found in the intestine, comparison of duodenal EECs and gastric EECs by single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) suggested a distinct gastric EEC expression profile. These differences are most likely reflective of the tissue specific microenvironment of these EECs, the stimuli they are exposed to, and their different functions ( 160 ). As will be outlined in subsequent parts of this text, differentiation of intestinal EECs requires expression of the master bHLH transcription factor, NEUROG3. While NEUROG3 is important for gastric EECs, its role appears to be EEC subtype specific. Most gastric EECs are also dependent on ASCL1, the same transcription factor that initiates PNEC specification. Studies from two different groups, which independently generated Neurog3 null mice showed that while these mice lacked D-cells and G-cells and had decreased numbers of EC cells, ECL and X/A cells were unaffected ( 161 , 162 ). Ascl1 null mice displayed a similar but not identical phenotype, showing lack of D, G and EC cells and severely decreased numbers of X/A cells ( 163 ). ECL cells were not examined in Ascl1 null mice. Thus, some gastric EECs, such as D- and G- cells are dependent on both NEUROG3 and ASCL1, while others, such as X/A cells, are dependent on ASCL1 but not NEUROG3. EC cells appear to be entirely dependent on ASCL1, and only partially dependent on NEUROG3 ( 163 ). Ascl1 is not expressed in intestinal EECs from the mouse. Nonetheless, scRNA-seq of human intestinal
