Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


to be entirely dependent on ASCL1, and only partially dependent on NEUROG3 ( 163 ). Ascl1 is not expressed in intestinal EECs from the mouse. Nonetheless, scRNA-seq of human intestinal EECs identified expression of ASCL1 , suggesting a role for this transcription factor not only in gastric EECs but also in human intestinal EECs ( 164 ). The EEC hormone most clearly associated with gastric function is gastrin, secreted by G-cells located in the pyloric compartment of the stomach. These cells are also found in the duodenum, but their function has been best studied in the stomach ( 160 , 164 ). Gastrin secreted into the bloodstream by G-cells binds to its receptor expressed by ECL cells in the corpus thereby stimulating them to secrete histamine, which, in turn, stimulates neighboring parietal cells to secrete gastric acid. Given that parietal cells themselves also express the gastrin receptor, gastrin release by G-cells can also directly stimulate parietal cells to secrete gastric acid ( 165 – 167 ). The other hormones produced by the gastric EECs are also secreted by other gastroenteropancreatic endocrine cells (GEP-ECs) and will be discussed in later sections. INTESTINAL AND COLONIC ENDOCRINE CELLS Architecture and Cell Types of the Intestine The gut can be divided into the small and large intestine (also known as the colon). The two primary functions performed by the small intestinal epithelium are 1) to form a barrier against the continuous chemical and mechanical insults induced by the undigested food, microorganisms, and toxins present in the intestinal lumen, and 2) to absorb nutrients from ingested food ( 150 ). This latter process occurs with an exceptionally high efficiency made possible by the large surface area generated by the intestinal epithelium’s folded structure. Protrusions known as villi contain differentiated non-mitotic cells, while invaginations known as crypts contain proliferative, self-renewing stem cells and their epithelial niche cells, Paneth cells. The colon lacks villi and its primary function is water absorption and movement of the stool. The continuous damage experienced by the intestinal epithelium necessitates a high cellular turnover to maintain organ function. The intestinal stem cells, marked by the expression of leucine-rich G-protein-coupled receptor 5 (LGR5), continuously replace lost cells via rapid division which regenerates the epithelium within 4-5 days ( 150 ). The differentiated cells that originate from the LGR5+ stem cells can be divided into two main functional categories, absorptive (enterocytes and microfold cells)
