Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


epithelium within 4-5 days ( 150 ). The differentiated cells that originate from the LGR5+ stem cells can be divided into two main functional categories, absorptive (enterocytes and microfold cells) and secretory (EECs, goblet, Paneth, and tuft cells) ( Figure 4A ). Intestinal EECs secrete hormones in response to stimuli such as nutrients from digested food and metabolites produced by the gut microbiota ( 168 , 169 ). The stimuli that EECs respond to can be both mechanical and chemical, and the hormones they produce are secreted both locally and into the bloodstream, thereby allowing them to act not just locally but also systemically. Gut hormones regulate important functions such as digestion, nutrient absorption, appetite, and gastric as well as gut motility ( 170 ). Figure 4. Intestinal enteroendocrine lineage specification. (A) Schematic of the intestinal epithelium. Solitary enteroendocrine cells (EECs) are depicted in purple. (B) Diagram of signaling and transcription factor interactions that regulate intestinal enteroendocrine cell differentiation. Differentiated EEC subtypes are highlighted with yellow circles. Factors Regulating Commitment to the Secretory Lineage The rapid division of LGR5-positive stem cells gives rise to progenitor cells, the majority of which differentiate as they migrate upwards along the crypt-villus axis. The following section describes the differentiation of intestinal EECs and highlights some of the essential regulatory factors and signaling pathways that direct this process. NOTCH SIGNALING The first step in becoming an EEC is commitment to the secretory lineage, a process that is initiated by the transcription factor, ATOH1 (Protein atonal homolog 1). At the crypt bottom, active Notch signaling prevents the differentiation of stem and progenitor cells. Cell-cell contact between Notch ligand (Dll1 and Dll4) expressing Paneth cells and stem/progenitor cells results in the expression of the Notch target gene, HES1 , which in turn represses the secretory cell fate by repressing ATOH1 ( 171 , 172 ). Hence, commitment to the secretory lineage requires inactivation of Notch signaling. Inactivation of Notch signaling is concomitant with loss of contact with Paneth cells. Due to the high ratio of progenitor to Paneth cells in the crypt, not all progenitors can simultaneously be in touch with a Paneth cell and this results in stochastic loss of Paneth cell-stem cell contact. Additionally, as new progenitors are continuously generated by the stem cells in the crypt, older progenitors are pushed upward along the crypt-villus axis, causing them to lose contact with the Notch ligand-presenting
