Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


new progenitors are continuously generated by the stem cells in the crypt, older progenitors are pushed upward along the crypt-villus axis, causing them to lose contact with the Notch ligand-presenting Paneth cells. The resultant loss of active Notch in these cells enables expression of ATOH1 and commitment to the secretory lineage ( 173 , 174 ). Mice lacking Atoh1 do not have any secretory cells ( 173 ). In contrast, mice with null alleles of Hes1 have excessive numbers of secretory cells. Factors Regulating Commitment to the EEC Lineage Transient expression of NEUROG3 commits Atoh1-expressing secretory progenitors to the EEC fate. Whereas Neurog3 knockout mice completely lack EECs, overexpression of Neurog3 leads to increased numbers of EECs and decreased numbers of goblet cells ( 162 , 175 , 176 ). Homozygous NEUROG3 mutations have been identified in children with generalized malabsorption and reduced numbers of intestinal EECs ( 177 ). Downstream targets of NEUROG3 include other transcription factors important for EEC differentiation such as NEUROD1, PAX4/6, NKX2.2, INSM1, and PDX1 ( 162 , 178 – 181 ). NEUROG3 is also implicated in cell cycle control: Neurog3 expression in mouse pancreatic endocrine progenitors leads to upregulation of the cell cycle inhibitor, Cdkn1a , and consequent cell cycle exit ( 182 ). Consistent with the idea that cell cycle exit biases secretory progenitors to the EEC lineage, inhibition of either epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling induced quiescence of intestinal stem cells in organoid culture. When this quiescence was reversed by reactivation of these pathways, the resulting organoids had an increased proportion of EECs ( 183 ). Specification of the Different EEC Lineages While most progenitors generated in the crypt immediately begin migrating upwards, those primed to become EECs remain in the crypt for anywhere between 48h and 60h ( 184 ). During this time, these cells become committed to one of several divergent differentiation trajectories, each of which results in a different EEC subtype. Prior to leaving the crypt, EEC-committed progenitors have already started to express and secrete their lineage-defining hormones. The time required to produce a specific hormone varies between the different EEC lineages and this may explain why some EEC-committed progenitors remain in the crypt longer than others ( 184 ). Altogether, intestinal EECs produce more than 20 different hormones. The earliest classification of EECs was based on immunostainings and consisted of the
