Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


the crypt longer than others ( 184 ). Altogether, intestinal EECs produce more than 20 different hormones. The earliest classification of EECs was based on immunostainings and consisted of the following 8 EEC lineages as defined by the main hormone they were found to express: enterochromaffin (EC) cells that secrete serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), I cells that secrete cholecystokinin (CCK), K cells that secrete gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP), L cells that secrete glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), X cells that secrete ghrelin (GHRL), S cells that secrete secretin (SCT), D cells that secrete somatostatin (SST), and N cells that secrete neurotensin (NTS) ( 185 ). At the time that this classification was first proposed, it was believed that EECs belonging to a given subtype predominantly expressed the hormone that defined that EEC subtype. Thus, for example, it was believed that EC cells only predominantly expressed serotonin, and L cells only predominantly expressed GLP-1. However, new techniques for performing hormone co-stainings using multiple antibodies, fluorescent hormone reporter mice, and transcriptome-based sequencing of EECs have all led to the observation that some EECs express multiple subtype-defining hormones ( 186 – 190 ). The question thus arose, did these multihormonal EECs represent previously unidentified and distinct EEC subtypes? Or were they simply cells caught in a transition state along the EEC subtype differentiation trajectory? The latter would suggest that EECs are capable of hormonal plasticity and are therefore capable of transitioning from expression of one lineage defining hormone to another. RESOLVING LINEAGE IDENTITY AND HORMONE SWITCHING One of the first lines of evidence that EECs might undergo hormone switching was the observation that, while serotonin-producing EC cells were rapidly labeled after a single pulse of radioactive thymidine, secretin-producing S cells were labeled much later and only after multiple injections of the isotope ( 191 , 192 ). Thus, it was concluded that serotonin-expressing cells but not secretin-expressing cells had the ability to self-renew and that secretin cells did not differentiate before reaching the villus. Based on this data, one could postulate that serotonin-expressing cells might become secretin-expressing cells once they reach the villus. A lineage relationship between EECs localized in the crypt and EECs localized in the villus was first suggested in 1990 by Roth and Gordon based on an immunohistochemical study in which it was observed that cells expressing substance P (encoded by the Tac1 gene) but not secretin were found in the crypt,
