Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


and Gordon based on an immunohistochemical study in which it was observed that cells expressing substance P (encoded by the Tac1 gene) but not secretin were found in the crypt, cells expressing both substance P and secretin were found in the bottom of the villus, and cells expressing secretin but not substance P were found exclusively at the top of the villus. The majority of substance P-expressing and secretin-expressing cells co-expressed serotonin. The authors thus concluded that these hormones were sequentially expressed along the crypt villus axis ( 186 ). The fact that substance P-expressing cells were labeled by the thymidine analogue, BrdU, faster than secretin-producing cells further supported this idea of sequential expression of substance P and secretin by the same EEC ( 193 ). Functional evidence for dynamic hormone-switching in EECs was provided first by cell ablation studies showing that ablation of one EEC subtype led to decreased numbers of other EEC subtypes ( 194 ). Subsequently the generation of a novel mouse Neurog3 reporter allele, Neurog3Chrono, enabled more definitive delineation of dynamic hormone-expression patterns of single EECs ( 184 ). In the Neurog3Chrono mouse, two fluorescent reporter proteins, an unstable mNeonGreen and highly-stable tdTomato, are expressed concurrently with endogenous Neurog3. As a result, the ratio of red to green fluorescence of a given EEC provides real-time information about the age of that cell relative to when it expressed Neurog3 ( 184 ). ScRNAseq of EECs from Neurog3Chrono mice provided definitive evidence that many EECs switch the hormone they produce throughout the course of their lives and furthermore suggested a more simplified EEC subtype classification consisting of five mature EEC lineages. One of these five lineages was the one proposed by Roth and Gordon of substance P expressing cells that give rise to serotonin-expressing cells and then to secretin-expressing cells. This lineage was also confirmed independently by lineage tracing of Tac1-expressing cells in the mouse intestinal epithelium ( 195 ). Two key observations from the Neurog3Chrono study substantiated a simplified EEC lineage classification. First, all EEC lineages except for SST-expressing D-cells began to express secretin upon entering the villus, thus rendering the S-cell lineage obsolete. Second, L-, I- and N- cells were shown to belong to a single lineage. Prior to this, observations from a mouse model of L-cell ablation had led the Schwartz lab to propose that L- and N- cells were part of the same lineage
