Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


lineage. Prior to this, observations from a mouse model of L-cell ablation had led the Schwartz lab to propose that L- and N- cells were part of the same lineage ( 194 ). The Neurog3Chrono study showed that, when located at the bottom of the crypt, L-cells secrete GLP-1 but, upon reaching the upper regions of the crypt, begin to express the I-cell defining hormone, CCK, and, finally, upon reaching the villus region, they begin to express the N-cell defining hormone, NTS. Thus, the EEC lineages or subtypes could be reduced to the following 5 main lineages: enterochromaffin (EC) cells that secrete Serotonin, K cells that secrete GIP, X cells that secrete GHRL, D cells that secrete SST, and LIN cells that secrete GLP-1, CCK and NTS ( Figure 4B ) ( 184 ). ENTEROCHROMAFFIN (EC) CELLS EC cells are the most prevalent EEC subtype and they can be found in all regions of the intestine ( 196 , 197 ). They are slender, triangularly-shaped cells that can have protrusions extending towards the luminal surface of the intestine ( 198 , 199 ). EC cells are defined by their expression of both serotonin and tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (TPH1), an enzyme that catalyzes the rate limiting step in the biosynthesis of serotonin ( 189 ). Serotonin in EC cells is stored in pleomorphic granules and is released in response to chemical and mechanical stimuli. Although commonly associated with brain development and regulation of mood and stress, 95% of the body’s serotonin is produced by the intestine where it regulates functions such as motility, fluid secretion, and vasodilation ( 200 – 202 ). The response of EC cells to different types of stimuli is mediated, in part, through their expression of various receptors, including the olfactory receptor, OLFR558, which acts as a sensor for microbial metabolites, and the transient receptor potential A1 (TRPA1), a receptor-operated ion channel that detects dietary irritants ( 203 ). A subset of EC cells expresses the mechanosensitive channel Piezo2, which converts mechanical forces to secretion of fluids and serotonin ( 204 ). Given the important functions exerted by serotonin, it is not surprising that EC cells are implicated in several GI pathologies ( 202 ). Consistent with the observation that most SI-NETs express serotonin, intestinal EC cells are thought to be the cell of origin for these tumors. An early hint that SI-NETs might indeed arise from
