Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


the observation that most SI-NETs express serotonin, intestinal EC cells are thought to be the cell of origin for these tumors. An early hint that SI-NETs might indeed arise from EC cells was provided by a Immunohistochemical study in which serial sections of an entire ileal SI-NET tumor were stained for several EEC markers, including serotonin. The authors observed aggregates of proliferating EC cells within crypts in close proximity to the tumor, which the authors speculated were indicative of where the tumor had originated ( 205 ). A later study made the same observation in a larger cohort of SI-NET samples from eight different patients, supporting the idea that aberrant proliferation of EC cells within the crypt is associated with SI-NET formation ( 206 ). More recently, it has been suggested that the cell of origin of SI-NETs is not necessarily a fully differentiated EC cell, but rather an EC cell that expresses not only the EC cell markers, TPH1 and CHGA, but also markers of reserve stem cells ( 207 ). As we will discuss later in this text (see, EECs can act as reserve niche and stem cells), lineage tracing of both progenitor cells and of cells expressing mature EC cell markers in the mouse intestinal epithelium has shown that EC cells can adopt a stem cell fate upon injury ( 208 ). This observation suggests a plausible scenario whereby, if an EC cell were to acquire a genomic (or other) aberration capable of driving NET genesis, it could be long lived enough to indeed give rise to a tumor. Consistent with this hypothesis, Sei et al. identified human EC cells co-expressing the EC cell marker TPH1, and markers associated with both canonical and reserve stem cells, within crypt EC cell microtumors in tissue sections from patients with familial SI-NETs ( 209 , 210 ). WHAT CAUSES HORMONE SWITCHING? Growth factor gradients change from high WNT, high EGF, high NOTCH, and low BMP, at the crypt bottom, to increasingly high BMP, low WNT, low EGF, and low NOTCH along the villus. Thus, upon leaving the crypt, EEC progenitors are exposed to increasingly different signaling environments. It was therefore attractive to speculate that these signaling gradients could induce hormone switching in EECs. Adult stem cell (ASC) derived mouse and human intestinal organoids lack mesenchymal cells and are therefore not exposed to growth factor gradients but instead experience a constant
