Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


switching in EECs. Adult stem cell (ASC) derived mouse and human intestinal organoids lack mesenchymal cells and are therefore not exposed to growth factor gradients but instead experience a constant environment determined by the media composition ( 211 ). Consequently, the ASC-derived intestinal organoid system provides researchers with a controlled, in vitro setting in which the signaling environment that intestinal cells experience can be modulated. Under expansion conditions that mimic the crypt environment and are optimized to promote stem cell maintenance, the EECs in mouse small intestinal organoids display a crypt hormone profile. However, when BMP4 was added to the culture media to mimic the villus environment, the EECs in the organoids expressed Secretin suggesting they had taken on a villus-like profile ( 195 ). The molecular mechanisms governing the hormone switching from GLP-1 to CCK to NTS observed in the L-I-N lineage remain to be unraveled but are likely to similarly involve cellular signals that differ along the crypt-villus axis. Non-Neoplastic EEC Hyperplasia The previous sections described the formation of intestinal EECs. These cells and the hormones they secrete play a central role in regulating processes that are important for maintaining organismal function and energy homeostasis. It is therefore not surprising that EECs are implicated in a number of human disease conditions. Increased plasma level of EEC hormones and, in some cases, direct evidence of increased numbers of specific intestinal EEC subtypes have been reported in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), lymphocytic colitis, Celiac disease, H. pylori infection, and Giardia infection ( 212 – 215 ). A genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified a strong association between a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the promoter of the EEC transcription factor, PHOX2B , and Crohn’s Disease (CD), a form of IBD ( 216 ). The mechanism leading to intestinal EEC hyperplasia in these conditions is not clear, though there is some evidence that inflammatory cytokines are involved ( 213 ). Consistent with this idea, treatment of mice with IFN𝛾 and TNF𝛼 led to increased numbers of Chromogranin A-positive colonic EECs ( 217 ). Likewise, IL-13 has been linked to the response of EC cells to enteric parasite infection ( 218 ). It is plausible that the observed changes in EEC numbers in these conditions are not necessarily or not only a result of the disease pathology, but are also mediators of the pathology itself. There is clear evidence
