Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


in EEC numbers in these conditions are not necessarily or not only a result of the disease pathology, but are also mediators of the pathology itself. There is clear evidence for interplay between EECs, the immune system, sensory neurons, and commensal bacteria ( 168 , 219 ). Together with goblet cells, EECs have been shown to secrete the cytokine IL-17C in patients with IBD ( 220 ). EEC hormones have been shown to have immunomodulatory functions ( 219 ). Some EECs are directly innervated and one study showed that serotonin-expressing intestinal ECs form synapses with nerve fibers through which they can modulate nerve fiber activity ( 203 ). EECs express functional toll-like receptors (TLR) and can thereby interact with commensal bacteria by responding to the metabolites they produce ( 221 ). Furthermore, as EEC hormones are known to also act systemically, the consequences of disease associated alterations in their abundance or function are not limited to the GI tract. Most notably, GLP-1 and GIP, which amplify glucose stimulated insulin secretion, are less effective in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and GLP-1 receptor agonists are currently used to treat T2D and obesity ( 185 ). The most well-documented examples of non-neoplastic EEC hyperplasia are hyperplasias of gastric and duodenal EECs. These include: ECL cell hyperplasia and G-cell hyperplasia. ECL-cell hyperplasia is associated with chronic excessive gastrin production, hypergastrinemia, resulting most commonly from achlorhydria due to chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG), gastrin-producing tumors in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES), and long-term proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) treatment ( 222 ). Lineage tracing of gastrin/cholecystokinin-2 receptor (CCK2R)-expressing cells in mice showed that CCK2R-expressing ECL cells in the isthmus but not the base of the stomach proliferated in response to PPI-induced hypergastrinemia ( 223 ). ECL cell hyperplasia only rarely progresses to neoplastic gastric ECL NETs. G-cell hyperplasia is most commonly observed as a secondary change associated with CAG in patients with pernicious anemia. In rare cases, it has also been observed in patients with peptic ulcer disease in conjunction with decreased numbers of a different gastric EEC, the SST producing D-cell. G-cell hyperplastic lesions do sometimes progress to G-cell NETs, gastrinomas ( 222 ). EECS CAN ACT AS A RESERVE NICHE AND STEM CELLS The microenvironment in which LGR5-positive intestinal stem cells reside is known as the stem cell niche and includes Paneth cells. The stem cell niche presents the stem cells with cellular signals that prevent
