Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


which LGR5-positive intestinal stem cells reside is known as the stem cell niche and includes Paneth cells. The stem cell niche presents the stem cells with cellular signals that prevent them from differentiating and help preserve their self-renewal capacity. Loss of Paneth cells or severe injury such as irradiation, chemotherapy treatment, or surgery can cause loss of intestinal stem cells. In these situations, several different epithelial cell populations have been shown to act as reserve stem cells ( 224 – 228 ). The first studies indicating that EECs could act as reserve stem cells followed the fate of secretory progenitors ( 224 – 228 ). As this progenitor population also contained progenitor cells fated to become Paneth or goblet cells, the contribution specifically of EECs could not be explicitly determined. A later study that used lineage tracing of a population of EEC committed secretory progenitors expressing markers of differentiated EECs showed that these cells can act as reserve stem cells, capable of both contributing to intestinal regeneration after irradiation and generating organoids in vitro ( 228 ). Lineage tracing of mouse intestinal cells expressing either NEUROD1 or Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH1; the rate limiting enzyme in Serotonin biosynthesis and considered an EC cell marker) showed that these cells, similar to the EEC committed secretory progenitors mentioned above, had the ability to contribute to homeostasis and to regeneration following irradiation induced injury ( 208 ). Given that the EEC-committed progenitors in the earlier study expressed Neurod1 , and that a subset of these cells also expressed Tph1 , it is unclear whether the Tph1 lineage-traced cells with regenerative capacity in this study were indeed mature differentiated EECs or the same multi-potent EEC committed secretory progenitors described before. More recently, it was shown that, upon genetic Paneth cell ablation, mature EECs replaced the ablated Paneth cells, serving as Notch-presenting niche cells for intestinal stem cells ( 229 ). PANCREATIC ENDOCRINE CELLS Located in the upper left abdomen behind the stomach, the adult pancreas, although being one anatomical entity, originates from two individual buds that arise from either side of the distal foregut endoderm during early embryonic development. As development progresses, these buds fuse to form the final glandular composite organ consisting of two compartments, one exocrine and one endocrine, which contain functionally and morphologically distinct cell types. Acinar cells secrete digestive enzymes which are transported to the duodenum by mucin-secreting ductal cells, and
