Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


compartments, one exocrine and one endocrine, which contain functionally and morphologically distinct cell types. Acinar cells secrete digestive enzymes which are transported to the duodenum by mucin-secreting ductal cells, and together these two cell types comprise the exocrine compartment. The endocrine compartment comprises 5 different pancreatic endocrine cell (pEC) types, each of which secretes a specific hormone: alpha (glucagon), beta (insulin), gamma/ PP (pancreatic polypeptide), delta (SST) and epsilon cells (ghrelin). As is the case for EEC-derived hormones, pancreatic hormones act both locally and systemically. Indeed, some pancreatic hormones are transported throughout the body via the bloodstream and instruct other organs to, among other things, release or store glucose from the blood. Hence, the pECs play a key role in nutrient metabolism, digestion, and glucose homeostasis ( 230 ). Development and Differentiation of Pancreatic Endocrine Cells In contrast to the GI tract where EECs are generated throughout the life of the organism, the pECs are almost exclusively generated during the fetal development of the organ ( 231 ). This process is orchestrated by an interplay of regulatory transcription factors. Whereas some of these transcription factors are expressed constitutively, others play a transient yet essential role in mediating pEC lineage commitment and differentiation (see table 4 ). Murine models have made invaluable contributions to our understanding of pEC generation. In rodents, pancreatic development is divided into 3 transition phases, each outlined below ( Figure 5 ). Table 4. NE Cell Lineage Transcription Factors View in own window Transcription Factor Associated NE cell types Role (specifically in NE cells) ASCL1 PNECs and gastric EECs Lineage specification ( 26 , 27 , 163 ) NEUROG3 GEP NE cells Lineage specification (transiently expressed) ( 161 , 162 , 175 , 176 , 232 , 233 ) NEUROD1 PNECs*, Intestinal EECs (L-I-N lineage), and pECs (beta cells) Specification of some NE cell subtypes (not defined in lung, secretin-expressing cells and I-cells in the intestine, beta cells in the pancreas) ( 27 , 36 , 255 , 407 , 408 ) ATOH1 (a.k.a. MATH1) Intestinal EEC precursors Specification of the intestinal secretory cell fate (precedes EEC lineage commitment) ( 173 ) INSM1 PNECs and GEP EECs** NE cell maturation ( 31 , 160 , 180 ) GFI1 PNECs and Intestinal EECs Maturation of CGRP+ PNECs ( 409 ); lineage specification (via inhibition of EEC fate in intestinal secretory progenitors) ( 410 , 411 ) PDX1 GEP
