Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


glucagon ( 234 ). SECONDARY TRANSITION Branching morphogenesis continues throughout the first half of the second transition, (~E12.5-E15.5), during which the plexus expands and segregates into tip and trunk domains. From E16.5-E18.5 the epithelial plexus is remodeled into a ductal network with a tree-like structure. Inter- and intralobular ducts branch off from the main pancreatic duct, which connects the pancreas to the common bile duct. During this period, multipotent pancreatic progenitor cells, which make up the majority of cells at the beginning of this transition phase, become either unipotent, fated to become acinar cells at the tip, or bipotent, with the potential to form endocrine and ductal cells. These lineage commitments coincide with a second, more pronounced wave of Neurog3 expression that peaks at around E14.5-E15.5, and then rapidly decreases at around E17.5( 235 ). This second wave of Neurog3 expression commits progenitors to the pEC fate and primes them towards one of the five pEC types. TERTIARY TRANSITION During the tertiary transition, individual progenitor cells that have now become fated to the pEC fate by the second, higher pulse of Neurog3 expression delaminate from the ductal network through what is thought to be asymmetric cell division and/or epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). These pECs then migrate throughout the mesenchyme until they encounter other pEC-fated cells, aggregate with the help of Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), and form oval shaped proto-islets ( 236 , 237 ). This process is reminiscent of the way, during lung development, PNECs form NEBs. The formation of fully mature islets requires their vascularization by endothelial cells and their innervation by neurons, both processes that take place from E16.5 onwards, and during the first weeks postnatally. POSTNATAL At birth the majority (more than 80%) of the pECs originates from endocrine progenitors and the remainder results from proliferation of preexisting pECs within the islets. DIFFERENCES IN PANCREATIC ENDOCRINE CELL EVELOPMENT BETWEEN RODENTS AND HUMANS Although studies of human pEC development are limited, they have uncovered a few main differences compared to rodents. First, there seems to be only one pulse of NEUROG3 during the formation of human pECs (compared to two in the mouse), which occurs at around 8 weeks of gestation. Second, the premature proto-islet structures described above are formed earlier in human development (at 12 weeks post conception) ( 238 , 239 ). Finally, the mature islet architecture differs between rodents and humans ( Figure
