Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


described above are formed earlier in human development (at 12 weeks post conception) ( 238 , 239 ). Finally, the mature islet architecture differs between rodents and humans ( Figure 6 ). Rodent islets have a central core of beta cells, which are also the most common of all the islet cells (60–80%). The remainder of the endocrine cells, alpha cells (15–20% of the cells of the islet), delta cells (<10% of islet cells), and gamma/ PP cells (<1% of cells) surround the beta cells in a circular structure known as the mantle ( 240 ). Human islets do not display the same organized structure as rodent islets. Instead, there is a salt and pepper pattern where the different endocrine cells are randomly scattered within the islets. The proportion of the different pECs also differs as human islets have proportionally less beta but more alpha cells compared to rodent islets, consisting of circa 30% alpha cells, 60% beta cells, about 10% delta cells, and rare <1% gamma/PP cells and epsilon cells ( 241 , 242 ). Figure 6. Differences between the murine and human pancreas. Schematic showing the anatomical differences between the murine and human pancreas in terms of both organ and islet architecture. Pancreatic Islet Cells and Hormones – All with Their Own Function This section describes the molecular and cellular characteristics of the different subtypes of pECs and their specific hormones and function during adult homeostasis ( Figure 7 ). Figure 7. Pancreatic endocrine cells. Diagram of signaling and transcription factor interactions that regulate pancreatic endocrine cell differentiation. ALPHA CELLS, GLUCAGON Alpha cells secrete glucagon and are the second most common pEC subtype. Glucagon contributes to maintaining homeostatic blood glucose levels by stimulating glucose production and inhibiting glycogen storage by the liver. The glucagon receptor, GCGR, is widely expressed by multiple organs besides the liver, and glucagon mediates multiple other physiological processes including amino acid metabolism, glomerular filtration by the kidney, lipolysis, and gastric motility ( 243 ). The key factor promoting commitment of pEC progenitors to alpha cells is the transcription factor ARX. Deletion of Arx in Pdx1-expressing progenitors in the mouse leads to a complete loss of alpha cells, accompanied by a compensatory increase in the number of beta and delta cells, which results in the same total numbers of pECs in mutant and wildtype mice ( 244 ). Similarly, overexpression of Arx in the embryonic
