Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


number of beta and delta cells, which results in the same total numbers of pECs in mutant and wildtype mice ( 244 ). Similarly, overexpression of Arx in the embryonic mouse pancreas or in developing islet cells results in an increase in the number of alpha and PP cells while diminishing the number of beta and delta cells ( 245 ). While ARX is required for alpha cell specification, the transcription factor, MAFB, is required for their final maturation and hormone expression. Mice with null alleles of MafB show a 50% reduction in insulin and glucagon positive cells ( 246 ). Moreover, adult mice in which MafB has been conditionally deleted in either Neurog3-expressing pEC progenitors or in mature pECs had reduced numbers of glucagon-positive cells ( 247 ). BETA CELLS, INSULIN The most well-known and abundant cell type of the Islets of Langerhans is the beta cell. Beta cells produce insulin which lowers the blood glucose levels via direct and indirect effects on target tissues. Binding of insulin to its receptor facilitates glycolysis in liver hepatocytes and skeletal muscle cells and promotes lipogenesis in the liver and white adipose tissue. Additionally, insulin inhibits hepatic gluconeogenesis and glucagon production by alpha cells ( 248 – 251 ). Some of the most important transcription factors involved in the differentiation of beta cells are NKX2.2, NKX6.1, NEUROD1, MAFA, and MAFB. In mice lacking the homeodomain transcription factor NKX2.2, beta cell precursors fail to fully mature or produce insulin and, as a consequence, the mutant mice develop hyperglycemia and die shortly after birth ( 252 ). NKX2.6 lies downstream of NKX2.2, and in mice lacking Nkx6.1 beta cell neogenesis during the second transition is blocked, and the development of fully differentiated beta cells is prevented ( 253 ). NEUROD1 is also required for beta cell maturation ( 254 ). Neurod1 null mice have reduced beta cell numbers and fail to develop mature islets ( 255 ). Differentiating beta cells express both MafA and MafB , but fully mature beta cells in the mouse only express MafA . Conditional deletion of MafB in the mouse pancreas delayed beta cell maturation ( 247 ). Notably, MAFB is expressed in adult human beta cells and while human pluripotent stem cells with MAFB knockout are capable of pEC differentiation, they favor delta cell and PP cell specification at the expense of beta cells ( 256 ). MAFA
