Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


human pluripotent stem cells with MAFB knockout are capable of pEC differentiation, they favor delta cell and PP cell specification at the expense of beta cells ( 256 ). MAFA is not essential for beta cell development but is required for insulin secretion and for maintenance of the beta cell identity ( 257 ). DELTA CELLS, SOMATOSTATIN Pancreatic delta cells, which make up ~5-6% of all islet cells, are responsible for the production of SST. Like insulin and glucagon, SST is a peptide hormone and cleavage of the precursor pro-hormone gives rise to two active isoforms, a long form that acts primarily in the central nervous system and a short form that acts on the organs of the GEP system. Delta cells predominantly secrete the short isoform of SST in response to a variety of stimuli including acetylcholine, glutamate, GLP-1, and urocortin3 produced by beta cells, ghrelin produced by epsilon cells, and high blood glucose levels ( 258 ). Within the islets, SST binds to one of its five different receptors on the surface of beta cells and alpha cells, thereby inhibiting the secretion of insulin and glucagon ( 259 , 260 ). SST also acts on cholangiocytes in the liver, inhibiting their secretion of fluids and thereby mediating bile flow ( 261 ). The delta cell-specific transcription factor, haematopoietically expressed homeobox (HHEX), is required for both differentiation of delta cells during embryogenesis and maintenance of their identity in the adult. Deletion of Hhex in mouse pEC progenitors during development led to loss of delta cells by E16.5. Likewise, deletion of Hhex in adult mouse pancreatic delta cells led to a reduced number of delta cells and reduced secretion of SST ( 262 ). The phenotype of mice lacking HHEX in the pancreas speaks to the hormonal interplay between pECs: reduced SST secretion in mutant mice led to increased hormone secretion from alpha and beta cells in response to different stimuli. Indeed, despite not being expressed in beta cells, HHEX has been repeatedly identified through GWAS studies as a locus conferring susceptibility to T2D ( 263 ). EPSILON CELLS, GHRELIN Epsilon cells, described for the first time in 2002, were the last islet cell type to be discovered. The number of pancreatic epsilon cells is highest during embryogenesis, comprising up to 10% of islet cells at mid-gestation, but their numbers then decrease such that they make up only a bit
