Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


of pancreatic epsilon cells is highest during embryogenesis, comprising up to 10% of islet cells at mid-gestation, but their numbers then decrease such that they make up only a bit more than 1% of islet cells in the adult pancreas ( 264 ). Scattered throughout the islets, epsilon cells produce the growth hormone secretagogue ghrelin. The name of this hormone comes from the Proto-Indo-European root “ghre-”, meaning "to grow," which seems appropriate for a hormone that was discovered in efforts to identify the ligand for the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R) ( 265 ). Also known as the hunger hormone, ghrelin is a 28 amino acid peptide that needs to be post-translationally acetylated before it can bind to its receptor, GHS-R, and exert its function on its target cells in an expanding list of target organs ( 266 ). Consistent with its stimulatory effect on food intake, ghrelin concentrations are highest during fasting. This function is primarily mediated by ghrelin secreted by gastric X cells. The other hallmark functions of ghrelin are stimulating fat deposition and stimulating growth hormone release from the pituitary. The list of functions attributed to ghrelin is still growing and includes regulating glucose and energy homeostasis, cardioprotection, muscle atrophy, and bone metabolism ( 267 ). Secretion of ghrelin is stimulated by glucagon and is inhibited by glucose, insulin, leptin, and GLP-2(268–270). In the pancreas, ghrelin secreted by epsilon cells binds to the GHS-R on delta cells, thereby inducing them to secrete SST, which in turn inhibits the secretion of insulin by beta cells ( 271 , 272 ). There is also some evidence that ghrelin promotes the survival and proliferation of beta cells ( 264 ). A complex interaction between NKX2.2 and NEUROD1 appears to be involved in epsilon cell specification during development ( 264 ). However, the transcription factor most closely linked specifically to epsilon cells is PAX6, which appears to inhibit epsilon cell formation. Ghrelin-expressing cells are increased in the developing pancreas of Pax6 knock-out mice at the cost of alpha cells ( 273 ). Likewise, when Pax6 was deleted in the adult pancreas of mice, the same increase in epsilon cell numbers was observed, concomitant with loss of beta cells, alpha cells, and delta cells ( 274 ). A later study demonstrated that, upon loss of Pax6 expression, beta and alpha cells began to express ghrelin ( 275 ). PP (GAMMA) CELLS, PANCREATIC
