Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


delta cells ( 274 ). A later study demonstrated that, upon loss of Pax6 expression, beta and alpha cells began to express ghrelin ( 275 ). PP (GAMMA) CELLS, PANCREATIC POLYPEPTIDE PP cells comprise less than 1-2% of the islets and the majority are located in the head of the pancreas. Perhaps due to their scarcity in the islets, not much is known about the genetic determinants of PP cell specification and maturation. Signals from the vagus nerve, enteric neurons, and arginine following meal intake stimulate PP cells to release pancreatic polypeptide (PP) ( 276 ). This hormone has the opposite effect of ghrelin and is referred to as the satiety hormone ( 277 ). Transgenic mice that overexpress PP show reduced weight gain and decreased fat mass, and long-acting PP analogues are being explored for the treatment of human obesity ( 278 , 279 ). Within the pancreatic islet, PP indirectly affects insulin secretion by inhibiting glucagon and SST secretion via a receptor expressed on alpha and delta cells, respectively ( 280 , 281 ). Other members belonging to the same peptide hormone family as PP are neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) which are produced in the GI tract. PYY is produced by L cells in the intestine and colon and its function mimics that of PP in the pancreas ( 282 ). Pancreatic Endocrine Cells in Injury Repair Injury to the pancreatic epithelium in the form of surgery, inflammation or metabolic trauma disrupts homeostasis by causing extensive cell loss. Failure in injury repair can result in organ dysfunction and cause clinical symptoms. The youthful pancreas has a high potential to regenerate damaged tissue following injury ( 283 , 284 ). In contrast to the GI tract, however, where this capacity to regenerate is maintained throughout life, the regenerative capacity of pECs is limited in adult tissue ( 285 , 286 ). Through observations made in rodent injury models, mostly looking at beta cells, it has become clear that the endocrine pancreas employs multiple strategies to regain homeostasis following injury. REPLICATION OF PRE-EXISTING BETA CELLS The ability of pre-existing beta cells to replicate in response to injury was first shown by the Melton lab. Using a beta-cell-specific lineage trace they found that the newly generated beta cells that arose following partial pancreatectomy originated from pre-existing ones ( 287 ). Using the same injury model, but an unbiased
