Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


lineage trace they found that the newly generated beta cells that arose following partial pancreatectomy originated from pre-existing ones ( 287 ). Using the same injury model, but an unbiased thymidine analogue based labelling technique, a different group came to the same conclusion ( 288 ). NEOGENESIS OF BETA CELLS FROM A STEM/PROGENITOR CELL An alternative hypothesis is that beta cell regeneration in the adult pancreas involves a process called neogenesis, which involves the formation of de novo beta cells derived from a stem or progenitor cell expressing Neurog3. Initial studies of neogenesis were based on in vivo pulse labelling with the thymidine analogue, BrdU. In one study, IFN-gamma induced beta cell depletion resulted in the appearance of budding duct/islet-like structures containing proliferative ductal cells as well as newly formed acinar and endocrine cells ( 289 ). Similar observations were made in two different models of pancreatic injury in rats, where regeneration involved marked proliferation of ductal cells, some of which expressed ductal and endocrine markers, followed by the formation of new pECs and islet structures ( 290 , 291 ). Researchers from the Heimberg lab found that, subsequent to pancreatitis induced by pancreatic duct ligation in mice, the region of the pancreas undergoing regeneration contained NEUROG3-positive cells, a portion of which also expressed ductal markers ( 292 ). Finally, a lineage trace of ductal cells in mice showed that, following injury, ductal, acinar, and endocrine cells all contained the lineage trace ( 293 ). Altogether, these studies suggest that, following injury, new pECs can be derived from a progenitor cell in the pancreas ductal epithelium, whose differentiation to the pEC fate is dependent on transient expression of Neurog3. TRANS-DIFFERENTIATION OF NON-BETA CELLS INTO BETA CELLS Finally, a landmark study from the lab of Pedro L. Herrera, provided evidence for yet another strategy employed by the pancreatic endocrine compartment to regenerate. Prior to inducing genetic ablation of adult beta cells, the authors induced a lineage trace of glucagon-producing alpha cells. In the initial months following beta cell ablation, mice required supplementation with insulin. However, at 6 months post-ablation, mice no longer required supplemental insulin and their pancreata showed increased beta cell mass and beta cells that expressed both insulin and glucagon. At early time points following ablation, the majority of the regenerated beta cells in these mice contained the alpha cell lineage trace, arguing that the beta cells had resulted
