Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


glucagon. At early time points following ablation, the majority of the regenerated beta cells in these mice contained the alpha cell lineage trace, arguing that the beta cells had resulted from trans-differentiation of the alpha cells ( 294 ). This provided new evidence of endocrine cell plasticity. Pancreatic Endocrine Cell Hyperplasia In the previous section we discussed observations relating to pEC regeneration in the context of conditions that lead to direct loss of pECs. Given defining pEC characteristics such as direct innervation and the role of pECs in mediating a number of physiological processes, it is likely that pECs also respond to stimuli produced in the context of other pathological conditions. As we have discussed in previous sections of this text, EEC and PNEC hyperplasia have each been observed in the context of inflammation or injury of their respective tissue sites. Likewise, an increase in the number pECs has been observed as a response to some pathological conditions relating to the pancreas ( 295 , 296 ). Moreover, focal endocrine hyperplasias have been observed incidentally in the pancreas of up to 10% of screened adults at autopsy ( 297 ). The pEC mass is normally 1% and 3% of the total pancreatic mass in adults and infants, respectively. If this increases to more than 2% or 10% of the total pancreatic mass in adults or infants, respectively, it is defined as pEC hyperplasia ( 222 , 297 , 298 ). Some instances of pEC hyperplasia involve a general increase in the size of pancreatic islets that results in an increase in overall islet cell numbers but not in a change in the relative frequencies of one pEC subtype versus another. However, the majority of pEC hyperplasia are associated with an increase in the number of a specific subtype of pEC, most commonly alpha and beta cells. Hyperplasia of other pEC subtypes including the rare gamma/PP cells have also been reported. Morphologically, pEC hyperplasia either appears as large islets (larger than 250 mm in diameter) or as budding structures protruding from the ductal epithelium ( 297 ). The latter budding structures are reminiscent of the structures described above in mouse models of pEC injury and are suggestive of pEC neogenesis. BETA CELL HYPERPLASIA Beta cell hyperplasia is commonly observed in patients with insulin resistance and early T2D and is likely a physiological response to these conditions. Other clinical conditions in which
