Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


CELL HYPERPLASIA Beta cell hyperplasia is commonly observed in patients with insulin resistance and early T2D and is likely a physiological response to these conditions. Other clinical conditions in which beta cell hyperplasia is implicated include persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI) and non-insulinoma pancreatogenous hypoglycemia syndrome (NIPHS) ( 299 – 302 ). These conditions are associated with dysregulated insulin secretion and hypoglycemia in infants and neonates or in adults, respectively. The pancreas of patients with PHHI is characterized by the presence of either focal beta cell hyperplasia, resulting in a focal increase in islet size or, more commonly, of diffuse beta cell hyperplasia in which enlarged islets and small, irregularly shaped endocrine cell clusters are found throughout the pancreas ( 297 ). The percentage of beta cells present within the islets of patients with PHHI is increased such that they account for 70-90% of the islet ( 222 ). Increased proliferation of not just beta cells but also of ductal and centroacinar cells has been reported in the pancreas of patients with PHHI ( 303 ). PHHI is caused by mutations in ABCC8 and KCNJ11, which encode for subunits of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel involved in insulin secretion, as well as by mutations in genes affecting beta cell metabolism such as glucokinase (GCK), glutamate dehydrogenase (GLUD1), and short chain fatty acid hyroxyacyl dehydrogenase (SCHAD) ( 304 ). NIPH is defined by postprandial hypoglycemia and, unlike PHHI, the genetic cause has not been clearly identified. The pancreas of patients with NIPH exhibits an increase in both number and size of the islets, and contains endocrine cells budding from the ductal epithelium ( 305 , 306 ). Symptoms of both PHHI and NIPH can be resolved through either partial or near total pancreatectomy. ALPHA CELL HYPERPLASIA Alpha cell hyperplasia (ACH) is a rare condition most commonly caused by mutations in the gene that encodes for the glucagon receptor, GCGR ( 307 , 308 ) . The number of islets in patients with ACH is increased and the islets vary in size, are often larger, and contain a high proportion of alpha cells ( 309 ). Patients with ACH often, though not always, also present with hyperglucagonemia, and multiple pancreatic NETs. The multifocality of ACH and pancreatic NET lesions in these patients, and the observed presence of large islets showing signs of morphological transition from ACH to glucagonomas suggests that ACH lesions
