Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


multifocality of ACH and pancreatic NET lesions in these patients, and the observed presence of large islets showing signs of morphological transition from ACH to glucagonomas suggests that ACH lesions can progress to frank glucagonomas ( 308 , 309 ). Interestingly, these patients do not display features of glucagonoma syndrome due to their GCGR mutations. Mice with germline null mutations in Gcgr , or with liver-specific deletion of Gcgr also develop ACH that can progress to glucagonomas. Pharmacologic interruption of glucagon signaling in mice also leads to ACH. In these models, ACH appears to be primarily driven by alpha cell proliferation, though it is possible that transdifferentiation of other pECs or of ductal cells is also involved. It is interesting to note that the clear link between GCGR function and ACH implies a signaling feedback loop that regulates both the number of glucagon-producing alpha cells and their secretion of glucagon. One of the signals that is likely to contribute to ACH is amino acids. Serum amino acid levels are increased in patients with ACH and transcriptomic analysis of mouse models of ACH have shown altered expression patterns for genes involved in amino acid catabolism and transport ( 310 ). GAMMA/PPCELL HYPERPLASIA Compared to alpha and beta cell hyperplasia even less is known about PP cell hyperplasia, which occurs very rarely. As with alpha and beta cell hyperplasia the number and size of the pancreatic islets in patients with PP cell hyperplasia is increased and contain a high proportion of PP cells ( 311 – 313 ). In 50% of the reported PP hyperplasia cases, the patients had suffered from gastrinoma or ZES. In addition, there is no correlation between PP cell number and PP serum levels. It is possible that PP hyperplasia arises as an effect of gastrinomas ( 297 ). There are also no genetic changes directly related to the onset of this condition. GEP NEUROENDOCRINE NEOPLASMS (GEP-NENS) GEP-NENs encompass all NENs that arise along the GEP tract and account for 55 to 70% of NENs from all tissue sites ( 82 , 314 , 315 ). GEP-NENs comprise both well-differentiated NETs and poorly differentiated NECs. In addition, some GEP-NENs occur as GEP-mixed neuroendocrine/non-neuroendocrine neoplasms (GEP-MiNEN) that can be either well- or poorly- differentiated and are characterized by their mixed morphology showing endocrine and non-endocrine features. Based on proliferation (measured by mitotic count and Ki67 index) GEP-NETs are further
