Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


targeted mouse GEP tissues have proven to be less straightforward and have given mixed results ( 329 ). Conditional deletion of Rb1 and p53 in renin-expressing mouse pECs led to the generation of highly aggressive, metastatic, glucagon-producing tumors ( 330 ). Given the expression of glucagon in combination with the aggressive course of the tumors developed by this GEMM, however, it is unclear whether they are a more suitable model for sporadic glucagonomas or for pancreatic NECs. In human patients, pancreatic NECs are almost exclusively non-functional, i.e., they do not secrete symptom-inducing hormones ( 331 ). In the RIP-Tag2 GEMM, instead, SV40 T-antigen is expressed in beta cells, thereby effectively abrogating the Rb1 and p53 pathways in these pECs. RIP-Tag2 mice primarily develop aggressive insulinomas and, to a lesser extent, poorly differentiated pancreatic NECs ( 332 ). The RIP-Tag2 model has been instrumental in delineating stepwise aspects of pancreatic NEN tumorigenesis and in identifying therapeutic strategies for these tumors in patients ( 329 ). Nonetheless, whether this GEMM can be used as a reliable model for pancreatic NECs is unclear. In addition to GEMMs, cell lines and, more recently, GEP-NEC patient-derived tumor organoid lines have been generated ( 333 , 334 ). Patient-derived tumor organoids, 3D long-term cultures of tumor cells, can be expanded long-term, can be cryopreserved, and have been shown to be representative of the patient tumor tissue from which they were derived at both the genetic and phenotypic levels ( 335 ). Recently, a genetically engineered organoid model of GEP-NECs was generated by CRISPR/Cas9 mediated compound knock-out of RB1 and TP53 combined with overexpression of 6 transcription factors in otherwise normal colon organoids ( 333 ). Interestingly, in the absence of transcription factor overexpression, compound knock-out of RB1 and TP53 was not sufficient to generate GEP-NECs from these cells. Together with genomic analyses of GEP-NECs, studies using preclinical models of GEP-NECs have been informative. Nonetheless, to date, strategies for stratifying patients in terms of the molecular characteristics of their tumors and the likely response of their tumors to specific therapies are lacking. Currently, the primary treatment strategies for GEP-NECs use platinum agents combined with etoposide, based on the relative effectiveness of this approach in treating SCLC, which is a more common and better studied NEC subtype ( 336 – 338 ). Overall, the response rate for GEP-NECs to first line therapy is 40-60%. Upon relapse or the
