Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


is a more common and better studied NEC subtype ( 336 – 338 ). Overall, the response rate for GEP-NECs to first line therapy is 40-60%. Upon relapse or the tumors becoming refractory, there are no well-established second-line therapies. This is reflected in a median survival of 38 months in patients with localized disease and only 5 months in patients with metastatic disease ( 339 ). Other potential treatment strategies for patients with GEP-NECs that are currently undergoing clinical trials are the mTOR inhibitor everolimus and some forms of immunotherapy ( 336 – 338 ). GEP-NETs GEP-NETs represent 80-90% of all GEP-NENs and comprise many different tumor types. GEP-NETs are classified as functional or nonfunctional depending on whether they secrete symptom-causing hormone peptides. Functional GEP-NETs, which can arise throughout the GEP-tract, include gastrinomas and insulinomas ( 10 ). GEP-NETs are highly heterogeneous with regards to their biological behavior and clinical presentation, course, and prognosis. The most common tissue sites of primary GEP-NETs are the small intestine, the rectum, the colon, the pancreas (12.1%), and the appendix ( 315 ). In general, G1 and G2 GEP-NETs are associated with high 5-year survival rates ranging from 75 to 79% and from 62 to 74%, respectively. The 5-year survival rate for patients with G3 well-differentiation NETs, on the other hand, shows more variability between NETs of the intestine (40%) and NETs of the pancreas (7%) ( 340 ). Notably, the recognition of the category of G3 well-differentiated pancreatic NET by the WHO in 2017 has had important implications for patients and clinicians, as it highlighted the fact that some pancreatic NETs, despite showing morphological features and differentiation more commonly associated with low-grade NETs, show aggressive behavior more similar to that of NECs ( 82 , 331 ). The most prevalent sites of origin for GEP-NETs show regional differences that are likely reflective of differences in both environmental and genetic factors. GI-NETs arising from the small intestine or colon are most common in the USA, small intestinal or pancreatic NETs are more common in Europe, while in Asia gastric and rectal NETs are most prevalent ( 341 ). The most well studied GEP-NETs are pancreatic NETs and SI-NETs. Gastric NETs (G-NETs) are relatively rare and only account for 4 to 6% of NENs ( 342 , 343 ). These tumors are classified into one of four categories according to their clinical characteristics. Most G-NETs
