Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


and only account for 4 to 6% of NENs ( 342 , 343 ). These tumors are classified into one of four categories according to their clinical characteristics. Most G-NETs are type I tumors, which are associated with CAG and arise as multiple small nodules. These tumors rarely metastasize. Type II G-NETs are very similar to type I tumors but are commonly associated with MEN1 syndrome (in conjunction with gastrin producing pancreatic NETs) or ZES. Type I and type II G-NETs arise as a consequence of excessive gastrin. Type III G-NETs are sporadic tumors that are not associated with other gastric conditions and present as large, solitary lesions. Finally, type IV tumors, G-NECs, are both the very rare and the most malignant. These tumors arise sporadically and are poorly differentiated. While type I, II, and III G-NETs are ECL cell tumors, type IV G-NECs arise from other endocrine cell types ( 344 ). Small intestinal NETs (SI-NETs) are the most common neoplasm arising in the small intestine ( 345 ). They include NETs arising in the jejunum and ileum, with the ileum being the major site of incidence ( 346 ). A unique feature of ileal SI-NETs is that they are multifocal in 10-20% of cases, with the different tumors arising independently ( 347 ). Moreover, ileal SI-NETs have a high rate of metastasis, with >50% of ileal SI-NET patients presenting with metastases at the time of diagnosis ( 348 ). Finally, the majority of SI-NETs produce serotonin, causing many of these to induce carcinoid syndrome, the most common functional hormonal syndrome of patients with NETs ( 349 ). Clinical symptoms of carcinoid syndrome include watery diarrhea, flushing, hypotension, breathlessness, wheezing, and loss of appetite, all attributable to not just increased serum levels of serotonin but also of prostaglandins, histamine, bradykinin, and tachykinins ( 9 , 350 ). Carcinoid syndrome is most often observed when NETs, having metastasized to the liver, secrete their biologically active compounds directly into the systemic circulation ( 351 ). Carcinoid syndrome can cause carcinoid heart disease in which elevated serum serotonin levels cause fibrosis in the heart. Symptoms of carcinoid syndrome attributable to serotonin can be ameliorated through the administration of serotonin-inhibiting therapies ( 340 , 352 ). Of note, duodenal NETs are sometimes considered separately from SI-NETs as they more closely resemble gastric and pancreatic NETs in terms of their mutational profile ( 353
