Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


, 352 ). Of note, duodenal NETs are sometimes considered separately from SI-NETs as they more closely resemble gastric and pancreatic NETs in terms of their mutational profile ( 353 ). Whereas the serotonin producing EC cells are thought to be the cell of origin of SI-NETS, duodenal NETs more commonly express gastrin and somatostatin (described in more detail later in this chapter) and are therefore thought to arise from G and D cells ( 354 , 355 ). Pancreatic NETs (PanNETs) are the best studied subtype of GEP-NET and are the only subtype for which the category of high grade G3 well-differentiated NET has been officially recognized ( 356 ). While some well-differentiated PanNETs are functional and consist of a single hormone-producing cell type, the majority of PanNETs are non-functional and contain a mixture of cells expressing markers for the different pEC types ( 357 , 358 ). PanNETs are thought to arise from differentiated endocrine cells of the islets of Langerhans. However, a recent study based on next generation DNA methylation analysis suggests that they may also arise from the exocrine pancreas ( 359 ). Familial GEP-NETS While the majority of the GEP-NETs arise sporadically, approximately 5% occur as part of a hereditary cancer predisposition syndrome ( 360 ). The most common of these syndromes are associated with the development of duodenal and PanNETs and are caused by germline mutation in one of five different genes: MEN1 , tuberous sclerosis complex 1 ( TSC1 ), tuberous sclerosis complex 2 ( TSC2 ), Von Hippel–Lindau ( VHL ), and neurofibromatosis type 1 ( NF1 ) ( 361 ). Of these, MEN1 is the gene most strongly implicated in PanNETs. MEN1 encodes for the protein menin, which acts as a scaffold for both transcription factors and chromatin-modifying enzymes ( 362 – 364 ). Thus, although its exact function is yet to be determined, menin has been suggested to play a role in multiple processes including DNA damage repair, cell cycle regulation, histone methylation, and mTOR pathway activity ( 365 ). Familial SI-NETs are far rarer and have been associated with germline mutations in CDKN1B , inositol polyphosphate multikinase ( IPMK ), and MutY DNA glycosylase gene ( MUTYH ) ( 366 – 369 ). Notably, germline mutations in CDKN1B have been shown to be causative of the MEN4 familial cancer syndrome in which patients develop parathyroid, pituitary, and, more rarely,
