Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


366 – 369 ). Notably, germline mutations in CDKN1B have been shown to be causative of the MEN4 familial cancer syndrome in which patients develop parathyroid, pituitary, and, more rarely, SI-NETs ( 323 ). Finally, there is one example of a single consanguineous family in which several family members were affected by hypergastrinemia and consequent gastric ECL NETs. These familial G-NETs were shown to be caused by germline inactivating mutations in the gene for a proton pump expressed by parietal cells and involved in gastric secretion, ATP4a ( 370 ). Genetics of Sporadic GEP-NETs Although rare, familial cancer syndromes associated with NETs have pointed to genes and pathways that are also important for the genesis of sporadic NETs. Genetic studies have revealed that somatic inactivation by mutation, chromosomal alteration, or epigenetic silencing of genes such as MEN1 , TSC2 , and VHL, each associated with a familial NET syndrome, are found in approximately 40%, 35%, and 25% of sporadic pancreatic NETs ( 371 , 372 ). Familial SI-NET syndromes are rarer, and of the causative genes for these syndromes, only mutations in CDKN1B have also been identified in 9% of sporadic SI-NETs ( 373 ). Of note, the largest whole genome analysis of pancreatic NETs to date, uncovered germline mutations in CDKN1B and MUTYH in pancreatic NETs from patients that had no family history of the disease, therefore implicating alterations in these genes also in the genesis of pancreatic NETs and, perhaps, of GEP-NETs in general ( 371 , 372 ). Incidentally, germline variants in pancreatic NET samples in this cohort were also identified in checkpoint kinase 2 ( CHEK2 ), and BRCA2 ( 371 , 372 ) . Molecular analysis of pancreatic NETs also uncovered alterations in genes that are not implicated in familial NET syndromes. In particular, Jiao et al. identified recurrent mutations in PTEN and PIK3CA in pancreatic NETs. This study also identified recurrent mutations in the chromatin remodeling enzymes DAXX (death domain associated protein) and ATRX (α thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked), in 25% and 18% of pancreatic NETs ( 374 ). DAXX and ATRX function together in a complex that deposits histone H3.3 at different sites including telomeres and mutations in ATRX/DAXX were mutually exclusive in pancreatic NETs ( 372 ). ATRX/DAXX mutations in pancreatic NETs were correlated with chromosomal instability and the activation of a telomerase independent telomere maintenance mechanism, alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT)
