Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


pancreatic NETs ( 372 ). ATRX/DAXX mutations in pancreatic NETs were correlated with chromosomal instability and the activation of a telomerase independent telomere maintenance mechanism, alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) ( 375 , 376 ). Perhaps it is thus not entirely surprising that ATRX/DAXX mutations are more often found in G3 pancreatic NETs than G1/G2 pancreatic NETs and are associated with reduced patient survival ( 323 , 375 ). Other mutations found in G3 pancreatic NETs and associated with shorter survival times are mutations in ARID1A and CDKN2a ( 377 , 378 ) . Whereas several driver mutations have been identified in pancreatic NETs, identifying a clear genetic driver of SI-NETs has been more difficult. Instead, the development of sporadic SI-NETs seems to be dependent on chromosomal aberrations. Loss of chromosome (chr) 18 is observed in more than 60% of SI-NETs. While the functional importance of this chromosomal loss in SI-NETs has not been determined, one study identified allelic loss of BCL2 , CDH19 , DCC , and SMAD4 (all on chr 18) in 44% of SI-NETs ( 379 ). Loss of chr 9 and 16 or gain of chr 4, 5, 7, 14 or 20 are also recurrently observed in SI-NETs, albeit at lower frequencies ( 353 , 380 – 383 ). Targeted mutational and copy number analysis of metastatic SI-NETs has identified recurrent mutations in APC , CDKN2C , BRAF , KRAS , PIK3CA , and TP53 , though at relatively low frequencies (ranging from 4 to 10%) ( 328 , 379 , 384 ). Although genomic studies demonstrate that SI-NETs and pancreatic NETs have distinct genomic profiles, a common pathway alteration stands out -- activation of mTOR/PI3K signaling. In pancreatic NETs the pathway is recurrently activated by frequent loss of negative regulators of the pathway (PTEN, TSC1/2) and by recurrent activating mutations in PIK3CA. Likewise, this pathway is implicated in SI-NETs by the observation of recurrent activating mutations in KRAS, BRAF, and PIK3CA as well as, more commonly, of frequent copy number gains in components of this pathway, including SRC and mTOR itself ( 323 ). Frequent alteration of CDKN family genes also appears to be a common feature of both GEP-NET subtypes, suggesting deregulation of the cell cycle is also important for NETs. Finally, though not discussed in this text, aberrant methylation patterns are likely to contribute to GEP-NETs in general and some studies have suggested
