Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


cell cycle is also important for NETs. Finally, though not discussed in this text, aberrant methylation patterns are likely to contribute to GEP-NETs in general and some studies have suggested that methylation patterns can be used to stratify GEP-NETs with implications for patient prognosis ( 385 – 387 ). Treatments for GEP-NETs The main alternatives used to treat GEP-NETs for which surgical resection is not possible are hormone analogs, PRRT, the mTOR inhibitor everolimus, and for pancreatic NETs, sunitinib. Chemotherapy mainly targets proliferative cells and is therefore predominantly used on NECs and G2 pancreatic NETs. Somatostatin analogues (SSAs) such as octreotide and lanreotide bind to the somatostatin receptors (SSTR1-5) and mimic the natural hormone’s ability to exert an inhibitory function on the cell’s hormone secretion. To prolong their effect, these analogues have been synthetically engineered to have an increased half-life compared to the endogenous hormone. Administration of SSAs is common in the treatment of functional GEP-NETs as they prevent the tumors from secreting excessive amounts of hormones and thus alleviate clinical symptoms ( 388 , 389 ). Although GEP-NETs can express all five somatostatin receptors, the majority express SSTR2. Binding of SSAs to SSTR2 has been shown to decrease proliferation and lead to disease stabilization in GEP-NET patients ( 390 – 392 ). In addition, SSAs can also be coupled to radioactive isotopes and used for targeted radiological therapy. The internalization of the radioactive isotope by the cancer cells causes DNA damage and cell death ( 393 , 394 ). As discussed previously, the mTOR-AKT pathway plays an important role in GEP-NETs. Consistent with this, inhibitors of this pathway such as everolimus have been shown to have a positive effect ( 132 , 395 , 396 ). Cell type-specific drugs have also been used in the treatment of pancreatic NETs and one of the oldest drugs is streptozotocin, a beta cell specific cytotoxic agent that has been used for almost four decades ( 397 ). Streptozotocin selectively enters beta cells via the glucose transporter, GLUT2, causing DNA damage resulting in cell death ( 398 ). Finally, inhibitors of receptor tyrosine kinases, vascular endothelial growth factor and its receptor have been effective in the treatment of GEP-NETs, most notably, pancreatic NETs as they are often highly vascularized ( 399 , 400 ). CONCLUSIONS When comparing neuroendocrine cells from different tissues, multiple recurrent themes can be identified. For one, their development relies
