Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


as they are often highly vascularized ( 399 , 400 ). CONCLUSIONS When comparing neuroendocrine cells from different tissues, multiple recurrent themes can be identified. For one, their development relies on the expression of bHLH transcription factors ASCL1 and NEUROG3. Animal models have highlighted the differential roles played by these two transcription factors in the formation and differentiation of NE cells of the diffuse NE system. Whereas ASCL1 drives PNEC lineage commitment in the lung, NEUROG3 is essential for the formation of the intestinal EECs and pECs. Both ASCL1 and NEUROG3 appear to be important for the development of gastric EECs. Another interesting difference can be seen in the expression pattern of these transcription factors. Whereas NEUROG3 is transiently expressed during the formation of GEP endocrine cells, ASCL1 is constitutively expressed in lung progenitor and mature PNECs. The mechanistic differences and biological reason behind these differential dependencies on either ASCL1 or NEUROG3 remain to be determined. Second, NE cells of the diffuse NE system appear to be involved in the response to some forms of injury, as indicated by their increased numbers in some disease conditions. Importantly, comparing NE cells during development or homeostasis to NE cells in disease conditions has the potential to uncover aberrations in common pathways and regulatory factors that contribute to or mediate the pathological state. This kind of analysis is likely to provide candidate targets for the development of new (targeted) therapies. Another recurrent theme in the biology of neuroendocrine cells from different tissues, is the crosstalk between NE cells and their environment. This crosstalk can be seen both in the response of NE cells to environmental stimuli and in the direct influence they can exert both locally and systemically through the bioactive compounds they secrete. Finally, the ideas of NE cell plasticity and NE cell heterogeneity are ones that have not been fully explored but might be important to their function. As an example of the former, although EECs are named after their predominantly expressed hormone, they can also be multi-hormonal and even change their hormone expression depending on their location within the tissue. While EEC hormonal switching is just starting to be discovered within the intestinal tract, it is likely that a similar degree of plasticity in hormone expression exists for other NE cell types. Indeed, some hints of plasticity between endocrine cells can also be seen in pancreatic endocrine cells, where some
