Diffuse Hormonal Systems
KEYWORDS: cells, cell, pubmed, lung, neuroendocrine, eecs, pnecs, patients, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, pulmonary


degree of plasticity in hormone expression exists for other NE cell types. Indeed, some hints of plasticity between endocrine cells can also be seen in pancreatic endocrine cells, where some studies imply trans-differentiation of alpha cells to beta cells under certain conditions. Regarding NE cell heterogeneity, it is interesting to note that, whereas the initial studies of NE cells were driven by observations about their shared features, with the advancement of single-cell sequencing technologies, the more recent era of NE cell research has highlighted a previously underappreciated heterogeneity of different tissue-specific NE cell populations ( 34 , 35 , 164 , 183 , 401 , 402 ). NE cell heterogeneity highlights the plasticity and dynamic nature of these cells as they respond to external stimuli and microenvironmental signals in a context-specific manner. With regards to NENs, next generation sequencing efforts have started to characterize the mutational landscape of NENs. So far, these have been mostly focused on pancreatic and lung NENs. Similar studies of NENs originating from other organs would be of value as they could provide new insights into NEN biology. Importantly, candidates discovered in genome-wide genomic studies need to be validated to determine whether they represent drivers or passengers throughout disease progression. Additionally, their exact mechanistic function is of importance if they are to become targets for drug development. For NENs with a lower mutational burden and few recurrent mutations, epigenome, non-coding or protein level changes may play a more significant role in disease initiation and progression. These possibilities are just starting to be explored. A significant challenge in studying NENs is the development of model systems that can be used to study both basic as well as translational NEN biology. Currently, the most commonly used models include GEMMs, cell lines, and patient derived xenografts (PDX). Although these model systems have provided invaluable knowledge about NEN biology they also have their limitations. GEMMs have been instrumental in the study of SCLC and some very specific subtypes of pancreatic NETs (RIP-Tag2 mice and Men1 mutant mice). Nonetheless, the current GEMMs for different NENs do not cover the entire range of different tumor types encompassed by NENs. Furthermore, species differences require comparisons and/or end stage studies in human derived model systems. Cell lines, which while being robust and relatively cheap to culture, suffer from genetic changes occurring over time and may not recapitulate the full tumor heterogeneity. PDX models circumvent
