Conquering the ECG - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: ecg, figure, wave, waves, leads, qrs, heart, left, lead, depolarization, right, small, electrical, complex, limb


NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. Ashley EA, Niebauer J. Cardiology Explained. London: Remedica; 2004. Chapter 3 Conquering the ECG Besides the stethoscope, the electrocardiogram (ECG) is the oldest and most enduring tool of the cardiologist. A basic knowledge of the ECG will enhance the understanding of cardiology (not to mention this book). Electrocardiography At every beat, the heart is depolarized to trigger its contraction. This electrical activity is transmitted throughout the body and can be picked up on the skin. This is the principle behind the ECG. An ECG machine records this activity via electrodes on the skin and displays it graphically. An ECG involves attaching 10 electrical cables to the body: one to each limb and six across the chest. ECG terminology has two meanings for the word "lead": the cable used to connect an electrode to the ECG recorder the electrical view of the heart obtained from any one combination of electrodes Carrying out an ECG 1. Ask the patient to undress down to the waist and lie down 2. Remove excess hair where necessary 3. Attach limb leads (anywhere on the limb) 4. Attach the chest leads (see Figure 1) as follows: V1 and V2: either side of the sternum on the fourth rib (count down from the sternal angle, the second rib insertion) V4: on the apex of the heart (feel for it) V3: halfway between V2 and V4 V5 and V6: horizontally laterally from V4 (not up towards the axilla) 5. Ask the patient to relax 6. Press record Figure 1 Standard attachment sites for chest leads. The standard ECG uses 10 cables to obtain 12 electrical views of the heart. The different views reflect the angles at which electrodes "look" at the heart and the direction of the heart's electrical depolarization. Limb leads 1/9 Three bipolar leads and three unipolar leads are obtained from three electrodes attached to the left arm, the right arm, and the left leg, respectively. (An electrode is also attached to the right leg, but this is an earth electrode.) The bipolar limb leads reflect the potential difference between two of the three limb electrodes: lead I: right arm–left arm lead II: right arm–left leg lead III: left leg–left arm The unipolar leads reflect the potential difference between one of the three limb electrodes and an estimate of zero potential –
