Conquering the ECG - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: ecg, figure, wave, waves, leads, qrs, heart, left, lead, depolarization, right, small, electrical, complex, limb


II: right arm–left leg lead III: left leg–left arm The unipolar leads reflect the potential difference between one of the three limb electrodes and an estimate of zero potential – derived from the remaining two limb electrodes. These leads are known as augmented leads. The augmented leads and their respective limb electrodes are: aVR lead: right arm aVL lead: left arm aVF lead: left leg Chest leads Another six electrodes, placed in standard positions on the chest wall, give rise to a further six unipolar leads – the chest leads (also known as precordial leads), V1–V6. The potential difference of a chest lead is recorded between the relevant chest electrode and an estimate of zero potential – derived from the average potential recorded from the three limb leads. Planes of view The limb leads look at the heart in a vertical plane (see Figure 2), whereas the chest leads look at the heart in a horizontal plane. In this way, a three-dimensional electrical picture of the heart is built up (see Table 1). Figure 2 The limb leads looking at the heart in a vertical plane. Table 1 ECG leads and their respective views of the heart. Performing Dogs British physiologist Augustus D Waller of St Mary's Medical School, London, published the first human electrocardiogram in the British Medical Journal in 1888. It was recorded from Thomas Goswell, a technician in the laboratory, using a capillary electrometer. After that, Waller used a more available subject for his demonstrations – his dog Jimmy, who would patiently stand with his paws in glass jars of saline. Depolarization of the heart The route that the depolarization wave takes across the heart is outlined in Figure 3. The sinoatrial node (SAN) is the heart's pacemaker. From the SAN, the wave of depolarization 2/9 spreads across the atria to the atrioventricular node (AVN). The impulse is delayed briefly at the AVN and atrial contraction is completed. Figure 3 The cardiac depolarization route. AVN: atrioventricular node; SAN: sinoatrial node. Reproduced with permission from WB Saunders (Guyton A, Hall J. Textbook of Medical Physiology. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1996). The wave of depolarization then proceeds rapidly to the bundle of His where it splits into two pathways and travels along the right and left bundle branches. The impulse travels the length of the bundles along the interventricular septum to the base of the heart, where the bundles divide
