Conquering the ECG - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: ecg, figure, wave, waves, leads, qrs, heart, left, lead, depolarization, right, small, electrical, complex, limb


travels along the right and left bundle branches. The impulse travels the length of the bundles along the interventricular septum to the base of the heart, where the bundles divide into the Purkinje system. From here, the wave of depolarization is distributed to the ventricular walls and initiates ventricular contraction. The ECG trace The ECG machine processes the signals picked up from the skin by electrodes and produces a graphic representation of the electrical activity of the patient's heart. The basic pattern of the ECG is logical: electrical activity towards a lead causes an upward deflection electrical activity away from a lead causes a downward deflection depolarization and repolarization deflections occur in opposite directions The basic pattern of this electrical activity was first discovered over a hundred years ago. It comprises three waves, which have been named P, QRS (a wave complex), and T (see Figure 4). Figure 4 The basic pattern of electrical activity across the heart. P wave The P wave is a small deflection wave that represents atrial depolarization. PR interval The PR interval is the time between the first deflection of the P wave and the first deflection of the QRS complex. QRS wave complex The three waves of the QRS complex represent ventricular depolarization. For the inexperienced, one of the most confusing aspects of ECG reading is the labeling of these waves. The rule is: if the wave immediately after the P wave is an upward deflection, it is an R wave; if it is a downward deflection, it is a Q wave: small Q waves correspond to depolarization of the interventricular septum. Q waves can also relate to breathing and are generally small and thin. They can also signal an old myocardial infarction (in which case they are big and wide) the R wave reflects depolarization of the main mass of the ventricles –hence it is the largest wave 3/9 the S wave signifies the final depolarization of the ventricles, at the base of the heart ST segment The ST segment, which is also known as the ST interval, is the time between the end of the QRS complex and the start of the T wave. It reflects the period of zero potential between ventricular depolarization and repolarization. T wave T waves represent ventricular repolarization (atrial repolarization is obscured by the large QRS complex). Wave direction and size Since the direction of a deflection,
