Conquering the ECG - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: ecg, figure, wave, waves, leads, qrs, heart, left, lead, depolarization, right, small, electrical, complex, limb


ventricular depolarization and repolarization. T wave T waves represent ventricular repolarization (atrial repolarization is obscured by the large QRS complex). Wave direction and size Since the direction of a deflection, upward or downward, is dependent on whether the electrical activity is going towards or away from a lead, it differs according to the orientation of the lead with respect to the heart (see Figure 5). Figure 5 (a) A horizontal section through the chest showing the orientation of the chest leads with respect to the chambers of the heart. (b) In lead V1, depolarization of the interventricular septum occurs towards the lead, thus creating an upward deflection (more...) The ECG trace reflects the net electrical activity at a given moment. Consequently, activity in one direction is masked if there is more activity, eg, by a larger mass, in the other direction. For example, the left ventricle muscle mass is much greater than the right, and therefore its depolarization accounts for the direction of the biggest wave. Interpreting the ECG A normal ECG tracing is provided in Figure 6. The only way to become confident at reading ECGs is to practice. It is important to be methodical – every ECG reading should start with an assessment of the rate, rhythm, and axis. This approach always reveals something about an ECG, regardless of how unusual it is. Figure 6 Example of a normal ECG. Rate Identify the QRS complex (this is generally the biggest wave); count the number of large squares between one QRS wave and the next; divide 300 by this number to determine the rate (see Table 2). Table 2 Some common heart rates as determined by analysis of the QRS complex. Rhythm P waves are the key to determining whether a patient is in sinus rhythm or not. If P waves are not clearly visible in the chest leads, look for them in the other leads. The presence of P waves 4/9 immediately before every QRS complex indicates sinus rhythm. If there are no P waves, note whether the QRS complexes are wide or narrow, regular or irregular. No P waves and irregular narrow QRS complexes This is the hallmark of atrial fibrillation (see Figure 7). Sometimes the baseline appears "noisy" and sometimes it appears entirely flat. However, if there are no P waves and the QRS complexes appear at randomly irregular intervals, the diagnosis is atrial fibrillation. Figure
