Conquering the ECG - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: ecg, figure, wave, waves, leads, qrs, heart, left, lead, depolarization, right, small, electrical, complex, limb


appears "noisy" and sometimes it appears entirely flat. However, if there are no P waves and the QRS complexes appear at randomly irregular intervals, the diagnosis is atrial fibrillation. Figure 7 ECG demonstrating atrial fibrillation. Sawtooth P waves A sawtooth waveform signifies atrial flutter (see Figure 8). The number of atrial contractions to one ventricular contraction should be specified. Figure 8 ECG demonstrating atrial flutter – note the characteristic sawtooth waveform. Axis The axis is the net direction of electrical activity during depolarization. It is altered by left ventricular or right ventricular hypertrophy or by bundle branch blocks. It is a very straightforward measurement that, once it has been grasped, can be calculated instantaneously: find the QRS complex in the I and aVF leads (because these look at the heart at 0° and +90°, respectively) determine the net positivity of the QRS wave from each of the two leads by subtracting the S wave height (the number of small squares that it crosses as it dips below the baseline – if it does) from the R wave height (the number of small squares that it crosses as it rises) (see Figure 9a and 9b) plot out the net sizes of these QRS waves against each other on a vector diagram (see Figure 9c). For the I lead, plot net positives to the right and net negatives to the left; for the aVF lead, plot positive downwards and negative upwards the direction of the endpoint from the starting point represents the axis or predominant direction of electrical depolarization (determined primarily by the muscle mass of the left ventricle). It is expressed as an angle and can be estimated quite easily (normal is 0°–120°) Figure 9 Vector diagram to determine the QRS axis. Human Resuscitation The first electrical resuscitation of a human took place (almost certainly) in 1872. The resuscitation of a drowned girl with electricity is described by Guillaume Benjamin Amand Duchenne de Boulogne, a pioneering neurophysiologist, in the third edition of his textbook on the medical uses of electricity. Although it is sometimes described as the first artificial pacing, the stimulation was of the phrenic nerve and not the myocardium. 5/9 ECG abnormalities This section discusses the most important and most frequently encountered ECG abnormalities. Normal variations Small Q waves and inverted T waves in lead III often disappear on deep inspiration. Occasional septal Q waves can be seen in
