Conquering the ECG - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: ecg, figure, wave, waves, leads, qrs, heart, left, lead, depolarization, right, small, electrical, complex, limb


most frequently encountered ECG abnormalities. Normal variations Small Q waves and inverted T waves in lead III often disappear on deep inspiration. Occasional septal Q waves can be seen in other leads. ST elevation following an S wave ("high take off") is common in leads V2–V4 and is quite normal. Differentiating this from pathological ST elevation can be difficult and relies on the patient's history and the availability of a previous ECG. These "repolarization abnormalities" are more common in the young and in athletes. T-wave inversion is common in Afro-Caribbean blacks. U waves – small extra waves following T waves – are seen in hypokalemic patients, but can also represent a normal variant. Ventricular extrasystoles – no P waves, broad and abnormal QRS complexes, and T waves interspersed between normal sinus rhythm – sometimes occur and do not require further investigation unless they are associated with symptoms (such as dizziness, palpitations, exercise intolerance, chest pain, shortness of breath) or occur several times every minute. Pathological variations Long PR interval A distance of more than five small squares from the start of the P wave to the start of the R wave (or Q wave if there is one) constitutes first-degree heart block (see Figure 10). It rarely requires action, but in the presence of other abnormalities might be a sign of hyperkalemia, digoxin toxicity, or cardiomyopathy. Figure 10 ECG demonstrating first-degree heart block. EKG or ECG? There is some debate over exactly who invented the electrocardiogram. The Dutch "K" (elektrokardiogram) is often used as a tribute to the Indonesian-born physician Wilhelm Einthoven who, while working in The Netherlands in 1924, received the Nobel prize for "the discovery of the mechanism of the electrocardiogram". In fact, it was Augustus Désiré Waller, a physician trained in Edinburgh, who presented – to the students of St Mary's Hospital medical school, London, at the introductory lecture of the 1888 academic year – his "cardiograph", the first ever ECG recording in man. It was some years later, in 1901, that Wilhelm Einthoven reported his string galvanometer – with the limb leads labeled I, II, and III and the waves labeled P, QRS, and T as we know them today. In fact, although often credited with inventing the term electrocardiogram (which is why it is sometimes spelt the Dutch way), Einthoven credits Waller with this distinction in his 1895 publication in Pflügers Archives "Über die Form
