Conquering the ECG - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: ecg, figure, wave, waves, leads, qrs, heart, left, lead, depolarization, right, small, electrical, complex, limb


inventing the term electrocardiogram (which is why it is sometimes spelt the Dutch way), Einthoven credits Waller with this distinction in his 1895 publication in Pflügers Archives "Über die Form des menschlichen Elektrokardiogramms". Q waves 6/9 A normal ECG has only very small Q waves. A downward deflection immediately following a P wave that is wider than two small squares or greater in height than a third of the subsequent R wave is significant: such Q waves can represent previous infarction (see Figure 11, previous page). Figure 11 ECG demonstrating abnormal Q waves in V1–V4. This is indicative of a previous infarction. Large QRS complexes Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is one of the easiest and most useful diagnoses to make (see Figure 12). The Sokolow–Lyon index is the most commonly calculated index of estimation. Does the sum of the S wave in lead V1 (SV1) and the R wave in V6 (RV6) add up to more than 3.5 mV, ie, 35 small or seven big squares? If so, the patient has LVH by voltage criterion. Right ventricular hypertrophy is indicated by a dominant R wave in V1 (ie, R wave bigger than following S wave; Sokolow–Lyon index: R in V1 + S in V5 or V6 ≥ 1.05 mV) and right axis deviation. Figure 12 ECG demonstrating left ventricular hypertrophy. Note also the T-wave inversion in leads V4–V6. This is often labeled "strain". Broad QRS complexes and strange-looking ECGs A wide QRS complex despite sinus rhythm is the hallmark of bundle branch block. Left bundle branch block (LBBB) can cause the ECG to look extremely abnormal (see Figure 13). When faced with such an ECG – after calculating rate, rhythm, and axis – check the width of the QRS complex. If it is more than three small squares wide, it is abnormal. Bundle branch block can then be diagnosed by pattern recognition of the QRS complexes in the V1 and V6 leads (see Figure 14). New LBBB can be diagnostic of myocardial infarction (MI). Figure 13 ECG demonstrating left bundle branch block. Figure 14 The shapes of V1 and V6 QRS complexes in left and right bundle branch block. ST segment changes The ST segment extends from the end of the S wave to the start of the T wave. It should be flat or slightly upsloping and level with the baseline. Elevation of more than two small squares in
