Conquering the ECG - Cardiology Explained
KEYWORDS: ecg, figure, wave, waves, leads, qrs, heart, left, lead, depolarization, right, small, electrical, complex, limb


the S wave to the start of the T wave. It should be flat or slightly upsloping and level with the baseline. Elevation of more than two small squares in the chest leads or one small square in the limb leads, combined with a characteristic history, indicates the possibility of MI (see Figure 15, previous page). ST depression is diagnostic of ischemia (see Figure 16). It is worth noting that although ST elevation can localize the lesion (eg, anterior MI, inferior MI), ST depression cannot. Concave upwards ST elevation in all 12 leads is diagnostic of pericarditis. Figure 15 7/9 ECG demonstrating anteroseptal myocardial infarction. Note the ST-segment elevation. Figure 16 ECG demonstrating ST-segment depression (I, V3–V6). T waves In a normal ECG, T waves are upright in every lead except aVR. T-wave inversion can represent current ischemia or previous infarction (see Figure 17). In combination with LVH and ST depression, it can represent "strain". This form of LVH carries a poor prognosis. Figure 17 ECG demonstrating T-wave inversion. Long QT interval The QT interval should be less than half of the R–R interval. Calculation of the corrected QT (QTc) is generally not necessary and usually will have been done by the ECG machine (but beware of blindly believing any automated diagnostic system). Conditions associated with a long QT interval are outlined in Table 3 (see Figure 18). Table 3 Causes of a long QT interval. Figure 18 ECG demonstrating a long QT interval. Long QT syndrome may also be drug-induced (see Table 4, p. 32). Once this occurs, the responsible drug needs to be discontinued. Table 4 Drug-induced increase in the QT interval and torsade de pointes. Pattern combinations Digoxin A reverse tick ST depression is characteristic and does not indicate toxicity. Digoxin toxicity can result in dysrhythmia. Pulmonary embolism Sinus tachycardia is seen in many patients with pulmonary embolism. New right bundle branch block (RBBB) or right axis deviation with "strain" can also indicate PE. The classic S Q T is I III III less common. Hyperkalemia The absolute potassium level is less important than its rate of rise. ECG changes reflecting a rapid rise demand immediate action (see Figures 19–21). The level of danger increases as the 8/9 ECG changes progress. The sequence generally follows the order: Figure 19 Hyperkalemia. Note the tall, tented T waves. Figure 21 ECG demonstrating a sinus-wave QRS pattern. tall, tented T
