Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


ABSTRACT MRI is the primary imaging modality for the pituitary gland. This chapter reviews and illustrates the normal anatomy and MRI appearances of the pituitary gland and hypothalamic region. The optimal MRI technique relies on thin section T1-weighted sequences in the sagittal and coronal planes before and after gadolinium contrast enhancement. T2-weighted sequences can add useful additional information in some cases but are not a substitute for T1-weighted sequences. Congenital abnormalities with characteristic imaging appearances including the ectopic posterior pituitary and hypothalamic hamartoma are illustrated, along with images of all the common primary pituitary pathologies: adenomas, Rathke’s cysts and hypophysitis (infundibular, lymphocytic, and immunotherapy drug-induced). Non-pituitary origin pathologies which may involve the pituitary or parasellar region are also illustrated, including meningioma, arachnoid cysts, germinoma, craniopharyngioma and chondrosarcoma; they all have distinct imaging appearances. Inflammatory processes such as sarcoid or Langerhans cell histiocytosis can also involve the pituitary stalk or hypothalamus and in these cases diabetes insipidus may be a clinical feature, correlating with stalk involvement on imaging. More recently, IgG4- and immune checkpoint inhibitor-associated hypophysitis have emerged as new diseases entities. Metastases or lymphoma can occasionally involve the pituitary gland and stalk. The granular cell tumor is a rare tumor arising in the pituitary stalk and has a typical appearance, distinct from other inflammatory or infiltrative stalk processes. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . ANATOMY AND EMBRYOLOGY The pituitary gland sits within the sella turcica which is a cup-shaped depression in the sphenoid bone. The sphenoid air sinus lies below and anterior to the sella turcica ( Fig 1 ). Lying above the pituitary gland is a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) space, the suprasellar system, which contains the optic chiasm ( Figs 1 and 2 ). The lateral walls of the pituitary fossa are formed by the cavernous sinuses ( Fig 1B ) which contain the internal carotid arteries as well as a number of cranial nerves: the 3 rd , 4 th and 6 th cranial nerves as well as the first and second divisions of the 5 th cranial nerve. The pituitary gland is connected via the pituitary stalk to the hypothalamus, which is a thin plate of tissue making up the floor of the anterior part of the 3rd ventricle ( Figs 1 and 3 ). Figure 1. Sagittal T1 weighted unenhanced image of the pituitary fossa
