Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


tissue making up the floor of the anterior part of the 3rd ventricle ( Figs 1 and 3 ). Figure 1. Sagittal T1 weighted unenhanced image of the pituitary fossa demonstrate normal anatomy. The anterior pituitary tissue, A, is visible within the sella and the posterior pituitary bright spot, P, is evident behind it. The stalk (arrow) is well seen with a small cleft of CSF visible within it superiorly –the infundibular recess of the third ventricle. The optic chiasm, C, and mamillary bodies, M, are seen in the suprasellar region. B - brainstem, S - sphenoid air sinus, CL - clivus. Figure 2. Coronal T1 weighted unenhanced image of the pituitary fossa. The anterior pituitary gland, A, is within the fossa. The posterior pituitary bright spot is visible centrally, P. The stalk is seen extending up into the suprasellar region. The optic chiasm, C, is visible. The cavernous segments of the carotid arteries, I, are seen within the cavernous sinuses, which form the lateral boundaries of the pituitary fossa. Figure 3. Sagittal T1 weighted enhanced image of the pituitary. The pituitary tissue has enhanced, as has the pituitary stalk. The appearance and size of the pituitary gland changes during life. At birth, it is typically globular in shape and shows high signal on T1 weighted images ( 1 ). By approximately 6 weeks of age this high signal has diminished, and the anterior pituitary tissue has a similar signal to brain tissue. The posterior pituitary tissue, however, retains a bright signal on T1 weighted sequences. This so-called “posterior pituitary bright spot” is a normal appearance thought to be due to the high neurophysin content (which is not present in the anterior pituitary tissue) ( Fig 1 ). The size of the pituitary gland varies with age and sex. On average it is between 3 and 8mm in height but is generally larger in females than males. The height increases during adolescence due to normal physiological hypertrophy ( 2 ). There is also a slight increase in size seen during the sixth decade in females. The most striking physiological changes are seen during pregnancy when the gland progressively enlarges reaching a maximal height immediately after birth when it may reach 10mm in height ( 3 ). Embryologically, the anterior and posterior pituitary lobes are distinct. The anterior lobe forms from an invagination of the oral ectoderm known as Rathke’s Pouch.
