Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


10mm in height ( 3 ). Embryologically, the anterior and posterior pituitary lobes are distinct. The anterior lobe forms from an invagination of the oral ectoderm known as Rathke’s Pouch. The posterior pituitary forms from a protrusion of the neural ectoderm of the diencephalon. Between the anterior and posterior lobes lies an intermediate lobe which is vestigial and known as the pars intermedia. This is a potential site for small non-functional Rathke’s cysts ( Fig 4 ). Figure 4. Sagittal enhanced T1 weighted image demonstrating a small Rathke’s cyst. This is seen to lie just below the insertion of the pituitary stalk and centrally within the gland. Although it is possible that a small cystic adenoma could have these appearances, this is a very typical location for a Rathke’s cyst arising in the pars intermedia. MR IMAGING MR is the imaging of choice for the pituitary gland. In order to optimize the study, it is necessary to perform thin sections (2mm or 3mm) targeted to the pituitary fossa and performed in both the sagittal and coronal planes. T1 weighted sequences before and after intravenous contrast are the mainstay of pituitary imaging ( Fig 1 - 3 ) ( 4 ). Coronal T2 weighted sequences can also give added information but are less sensitive in the detection of adenomas. Sequences before and after intravenous contrast are the main stay of pituitary imaging ( Fig 1 - 3 ). Coronal T2 weighted sequences can also give added information but are less sensitive in the detection of adenomas. The higher field strength 3 Tesla MR scanners, which are now in more widespread clinical use, can provide higher resolution pituitary images, the T2 images being reliably improved at 3T. However, artefacts related to vascular flow and patient movement are more pronounced and may outweigh the benefits. CT does not provide such excellent soft tissue resolution as MR but can be a very useful investigation if MR is not possible, and also if it is important to identify the presence of calcification in or around the sella. A dedicated CT study should be performed with a 1mm slice thickness in the axial plane and then reconstructed in the sagittal and coronal planes. There can be some benefit in performing the post-contrast MR sequences in a dynamic fashion (within the first 60 seconds) after contrast injection. This can maximize the conspicuity of adenomas within the pituitary
