Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


some benefit in performing the post-contrast MR sequences in a dynamic fashion (within the first 60 seconds) after contrast injection. This can maximize the conspicuity of adenomas within the pituitary gland, which typically enhance less than the normal pituitary tissue, and this differential enhancement is sometimes best appreciated within the first arterial phase of the contrast injection ( Figs 4 and 5 ) ( 5 ). However, in the majority of cases the lesions are adequately demonstrated on a standard acquisition (non-dynamic) scan after the contrast administration ( Fig 7 ) ( 5 ). Figure 5. Coronal T1 weighted image of the pituitary gland before contrast. There is a microadenoma in the right side of the gland. On the unenhanced image there is evidence of depression of the floor of the sella on the right side but the microadenoma cannot be visualized within the gland. Figure 6. Coronal T1 weighted image of the pituitary gland immediately after contrast. There is a microadenoma in the right side of the gland. After contrast a dynamic acquisition shows an area of lesser enhancement indicative of a microadenoma. Figure 7. Coronal T1 weighted image of the pituitary gland that demonstrates a left sided microadenoma (arrow) which was best seen on this nondynamic post-contrast sequence. The pituitary gland, pituitary stalk and cavernous sinuses are all vascular structures which are seen to enhance after gadolinium injection. The optic chiasm and hypothalamus, however, do not show enhancement if the blood brain barrier is intact ( Figs 1 - 3 ). PITUITARY ADENOMAS Pituitary adenomas are by far the most common mass lesion seen in the sella and parasellar region. They are slow-growing benign neoplasms arising from the anterior pituitary tissue; radiologically they are simply classified by size: lesions smaller than 10mm transversely are termed microadenomas and those greater than 10mm are macroadenomas. The clinical classification separates adenomas into those that are hormonally activity, e.g., prolactinomas, and those that do not have measurable evidence of hormonal activity referred to as non-functioning adenomas. The histology of the so-called non-functioning adenoma suggests that these arise from gonadotroph cells. The imaging appearances of pituitary adenomas is similar whether they are hormonally functioning or not. Obviously, non-functioning adenomas are more likely to present when they have attained a significant size and are producing effects on local structures around the sella. Pituitary Macroadenomas Pituitary macroadenomas can extend superiorly into the suprasellar cistern (
