Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


present when they have attained a significant size and are producing effects on local structures around the sella. Pituitary Macroadenomas Pituitary macroadenomas can extend superiorly into the suprasellar cistern ( Figs 8 - 10 ) and impinge on the optic nerves and/or optic chiasm to produce visual field abnormalities (typically a bitemporal hemianopia). Pituitary macroadenomas with a large suprasellar component characteristically show the appearance of “waisting” ( Figs 9 and 10 ) as they pass through the diaphragma sellae, the sheet of dura which normally lies above the pituitary gland. Lateral growth of a macroadenoma is initially seen to cause deformity of the cavernous sinus; however, adenomas can invade into the cavernous sinus. ( Fig 11 ) This may be associated with symptoms or signs related to involvement of the cranial nerves that run in the cavernous sinus. The third, fourth and sixth cranial nerves run through the cavernous sinus, as do the first and second divisions of the fifth (trigeminal) nerve. If the MR imaging demonstrates adenoma tissue extending beyond the most lateral margin of the cavernous segment of the internal carotid artery then it is very likely that there is tumor within the cavernous sinus ( 6 ). In many cases, however, tumor simply deforms the cavernous sinus flattening the medial wall but not extending more laterally, and in these cases the tumor is typically confined to the sella and has not invaded into the cavernous sinus at surgery. Adenomas can also extend inferiorly into the sphenoid producing remodeling of the bone. Occasionally, macroadenomas will show a very extensive involvement of the skull base ( Fig 12 ) and, exceptionally, can extend out into the infratemporal fossa. Figure 8. Sagittal T1 weighted unenhanced image of a macroadenoma. The sella is enlarged and the macroadenoma is seen to extend upwards into the suprasellar cistern with the optic chiasm stretched and deformed over the surface of the macroadenoma. Figure 9. Coronal T1 weighted unenhanced image of a macroadenoma. The sella is enlarged and the macroadenoma is seen to extend upwards into the suprasellar cistern with the optic chiasm stretched and deformed over the surface of the macroadenoma. Figure 10. A coronal T1 weighted enhanced image shows diffuse enhancement of the macroadenoma, no normal pituitary tissue can now be identified. The optic chiasm is easily identified, it does not enhance and is seen to be stretched over the superior aspect of
