Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


macroadenoma, no normal pituitary tissue can now be identified. The optic chiasm is easily identified, it does not enhance and is seen to be stretched over the superior aspect of the adenoma. Figure 11. A coronal enhanced T1 weighted image shows a right-sided pituitary adenoma that has invaded laterally into the right cavernous sinus. A significant component of the tumor lies lateral to the cavernous carotid artery and must therefore be within the cavernous sinus. Figure 12. A sagittal T1 weighted unenhanced image shows an invasive macroadenoma which has involved much of the central skull base. It has invaded the sphenoid air sinus which can no longer be identified and has also extended down the clivus. There is also a modest suprasellar extension with elevation of the optic chiasm. When pituitary macroadenomas attain a certain size, it is no longer possible to identify any normal pituitary tissue within the sella. The posterior pituitary bright spot may also be difficult to identify but is often seen in the lower aspect of the pituitary stalk which itself may be markedly deformed by the adenoma. Despite these appearances it is very rare for patients with macroadenomas of the pituitary to have diabetes insipidus, which usually points to a different pathology within the pituitary gland or stalk. Macroadenomas may be homogeneous or heterogeneous in their MR signal characteristics. Areas of cystic change and focal areas of hemorrhage are not infrequently identified. It is not uncommon for areas of hemorrhage to be seen within macroadenomas without any correlating clinical event; however, significant hemorrhage with necrosis in an adenoma can produce the syndrome of pituitary apoplexy. The patient reports sudden onset of headache usually associated with visual disturbance. The MRI scan shows an enlarged sella containing a macroadenoma with areas of high T1 signal representing the hemorrhage ( Figs 13 and 14 ). Often there is suprasellar extension and there may also be involvement of the cavernous sinus. Clinically, the patient may present with cranial nerve problems related to involvement of the cavernous sinus. Hemorrhage extending outside the tumor into the subarachnoid space is documented but is very rare. Figure 13. Sagittal T1 non-contrast image showing hemorrhage into an existing pituitary macroadenoma. The area of high signal represents the recent hemorrhage. There is a component of the tumor extending into the left cavernous sinus which does not show hemorrhage. The suprasellar extension is compressing the chiasm
