Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


signal represents the recent hemorrhage. There is a component of the tumor extending into the left cavernous sinus which does not show hemorrhage. The suprasellar extension is compressing the chiasm particularly on the right side. Figure 14. Coronal non-contrast image showing hemorrhage into an existing pituitary macroadenoma. The area of high signal represents the recent hemorrhage. There is a component of the tumor extending into the left cavernous sinus which does not show hemorrhage. The suprasellar extension is compressing the chiasm particularly on the right side. Pituitary Microadenomas Pituitary microadenomas are confined within the sella and are sometimes identified within the normal pituitary gland as an area of lower signal on T1 weighted sequences than the normal pituitary tissue ( Fig 15 ). ( 7 ) Local remodeling of the floor of the sella ( Fig 5 ) and remodeling of the dorsum are also useful features to identify the presence of a microadenoma. Although there may be displacement of the pituitary stalk by a lesion, this is not a very reliable indicator ( 8 ). Administration of intravenous gadolinium will improve the sensitivity of pituitary MR in identifying the presence of a microadenoma; typically the microadenomas enhance less avidly than the normal anterior pituitary tissue ( Figs 5 - 7 ) Acquiring sequences dynamically within the first minute after intravenous injection can slightly further improve the sensitivity of the study ( 5 ). This will demonstrate adenomas that appear less vascular on the initial arterial phase of contrast enhancement but then equilibrate to show similar vascularity to the normal gland in the next few minutes. The use of volumetric T1W sequences after contrast (as compared to standard T1W spin echo -SE) improves the detection rate for microadenomas ( 9 ), and so is of particular use in Cushing’s disease. A fluid attenuated Inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequence after contrast may further improve the detection of Cushing’s adenomas, if used with the volumetric sequence, which has the highest individual sensitivity ( 10 ). The signal characteristics of GH-secreting adenomas on T2 weighted sequences (whether they are of lower or higher signal than adjacent grey matter) can be an indicator of their histological composition: densely granulated GH secreting adenomas are typically hypointense whilst sparsely granulated GH secreting adenomas are hyperintense. The low T2 signal (densely granulated) adenomas seemingly respond better to somatostatin analogues ( 11 ) ( Fig 16 ). Figure 15.
