Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


whilst sparsely granulated GH secreting adenomas are hyperintense. The low T2 signal (densely granulated) adenomas seemingly respond better to somatostatin analogues ( 11 ) ( Fig 16 ). Figure 15. A coronal unenhanced T1 weighted image shows a small left sided microadenoma (arrow) as an area of lower signal than the rest of the anterior pituitary tissue. Figure 16. A coronal T2 weighted image shows a low T2 signal adenoma in the left side of the gland (arrow) which represented a densely granulated GH secreting adenoma. After pituitary surgery it takes around 3 to 4 months for the postoperative changes within the sella to regress to allow for assessment of the true volume of residual pituitary tissue ( 12 ). RATHKE’S CLEFT CYSTS These benign, non-functioning cysts arise from remnants of squamous epithelium from Rathke’s cleft. They typically arise close to the insertion of the stalk ( Fig 17 ) They are a common incidental finding reported in up to 11% of pituitary glands at autopsy ( 13 ). On imaging they may appear proteinaceous rendering their signal higher to the point that they appear hyperintense on the T1 weighted sequence. It is not uncommon for these cysts to lie in the suprasellar region on the surface of the gland where they are usually found anterior to the pituitary stalk ( Figs 18 and 19 ). If they are of significant size, then it may be hard to distinguish a Rathke’s cyst from a cystic craniopharyngioma. However, it is notable that the wall of a Rathke’s cyst shows no more than minimal enhancement. There are no solid enhancing areas and they do not calcify. Rathke’s cysts can be found in all age groups. Figure 17. A coronal unenhanced T1 weighted image demonstrating a small Rathke’s cyst. This is seen to lie just below the insertion of the pituitary stalk and centrally within the gland. Although it is possible that a small cystic adenoma could have these appearances, this is a very typical location for a Rathke’s cyst. Figure 18. Sagittal enhanced T1 weighted image of a large Rathke’s cyst. The cyst is seen to be sitting on the superior aspect of the pituitary tissue which appears flattened within the sella. The optic chiasm is stretched over the surface of the cyst. After contrast the cyst does not show enhancement. The cyst shows higher signal than the CSF indicating that it
