Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


The optic chiasm is stretched over the surface of the cyst. After contrast the cyst does not show enhancement. The cyst shows higher signal than the CSF indicating that it has a higher protein content. Figure 19. Coronal unenhanced T1 weighted image of a large Rathke’s cyst. The cyst is seen to be sitting on the superior aspect of the pituitary tissue which appears flattened within the sella. The optic chiasm is stretched over the surface of the cyst. After contrast the cyst does not show enhancement. The cyst shows higher signal than the CSF indicating that it has a higher protein content. MENINGIOMAS Meningiomas are slow-growing neoplasms that arise from the dura and can arise from any of the dural surfaces around the sella. Suprasellar meningiomas appear as soft tissue mass lesions apparently sitting on the superior surface of the pituitary and often compressing or involving the optic chiasm and nerves ( Fig 20 ) ( 14 ) A typical feature is a dural “tail” of enhancement seen extending forward along the planum sphenoidale ( Fig 21 ). Meningiomas have very similar signal to both the brain parenchyma and the pituitary gland, but show prominent homogeneous enhancement after contrast. The dural tail is a helpful distinguishing feature to separate meningiomas from other sella tumors. Figure 20. Coronal enhanced T1 weighted image There is a suprasellar meningioma which appears to be arising from the planum sphenoidale and is seen extending along the floor of the anterior cranial fossa where a dural tail (arrow) is visible. The pituitary gland itself appears normal and a cleft of CSF is visible between the meningioma and the pituitary tissue. The meningioma is displacing and possibly involving the optic nerves anterior to the chiasm. Figure 21. Sagittal (B) enhanced T1 weighted image. There is a suprasellar meningioma which appears to be arising from the planum sphenoidale and is seen extending along the floor of the anterior cranial fossa where a dural tail (arrow) is visible. The pituitary gland itself appears normal and a cleft of CSF is visible between the meningioma and the pituitary tissue. The meningioma is displacing and possibly involving the optic nerves anterior to the chiasm. Meningiomas can also arise from the cavernous sinus producing a soft tissue mass lying lateral to normal pituitary tissue. The meningioma may encase the cavernous carotid artery and can produce constriction of this vessel ( Fig
