Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


cavernous sinus producing a soft tissue mass lying lateral to normal pituitary tissue. The meningioma may encase the cavernous carotid artery and can produce constriction of this vessel ( Fig 22 ). This feature may be helpful in distinguishing between cavernous sinus extension of a pituitary tumor and a cavernous sinus meningioma. Pituitary tumors do not typically cause any vascular constriction. There may be hyperostosis (bony thickening) of any bony surface from which a meningioma has arisen, most typically the anterior clinoid process, though this may be more easily appreciated on CT than MR. Figure 22. A Coronal T1 weighted enhanced image of a left cavernous sinus meningioma. There is expansion of the left cavernous sinus (arrows) and some concentric narrowing of the left cavernous carotid artery (compare to the right carotid). CRANIOPHARYNGIOMAS Craniopharyngiomas are rare epithelial tumors arising in the sella/suprasellar region from the remnants of the craniopharyngeal duct. They are most commonly seen in children between 5 and 10 years of age; however, they can also occur in late adulthood in the sixth decade. They are the commonest lesion to involve the hypothalamic/pituitary region in children. In children it is the adamantinomatous histological subtype that is the most common ( 15 ). These shows both cystic and solid components as well as calcification, best appreciated on CT. The fluid within the cysts contains a high content of cholesterol as well as protein and desquamated cells, and this accounts for the cyst fluid often having high signal on T1 weighted unenhanced images ( Fig 23 ) The solid enhancing tumor components are most easily seen after contrast injection ( Fig 24 ). Craniopharyngiomas presenting in adulthood are more likely to be of the papillary subtype. These may be exclusively solid lesions ( Fig 25 and 26 ) or show a mixed solid and cystic morphology ( 15 ). They do not typically calcify, and they are less locally infiltrative. The adamantinomatous subtype is particularly adherent to surrounding brain tissue and is therefore difficult to surgically resect; however, imaging cannot distinguish accurately between the histological subtypes. The imaging characteristics are those of a complex suprasellar mass containing both cystic and solid components, the solid components show enhancement after contrast ( 14 ). Large lesions may be associated with hydrocephalus (more commonly in children) while the cystic components may show variable signal characteristics from low signal to high signal on the
