Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


14 ). Large lesions may be associated with hydrocephalus (more commonly in children) while the cystic components may show variable signal characteristics from low signal to high signal on the T1 weighted sequences. ( Fig 23 ). Figure 23. Sagittal T1 weighted unenhanced image showing a partially cystic craniopharyngioma. This is a large complex suprasellar mass which extends down into the pituitary fossa and up to deform the third ventricle. There are patchy areas of high signal before contrast which represent the cystic components with a high protein/ lipid content. Figure 24. Coronal enhanced image showing a partially cystic craniopharyngioma. This is a large complex suprasellar mass which extends down into the pituitary fossa and up to deform the third ventricle. It is of mixed signal intensity and the solid components enhance after contrast. Figure 25. Sagittal T1 weighted unenhanced image. This shows a solid suprasellar enhancing mass, a solid craniopharyngioma. This is elevating and deforming the chiasm but is not involving the pituitary gland itself which can be seen within the sella. Figure 26. Sagittal T1 weighted enhanced image. This shows a solid suprasellar enhancing mass, a solid craniopharyngioma. This is elevating and deforming the chiasm but is not involving the pituitary gland itself which can be seen within the sella. The mass enhances after contrast indicating that it is solid, and no cystic areas are evident. HYPOTHALAMIC/OPTIC CHIASM GLIOMAS These tumors present as suprasellar mass lesions and are most commonly seen in children. It is very often hard to determine whether the tumor has arisen in the optic chiasm or the hypothalamus as typically both of these structures are involved. These tumors are often associated with neurofibromatosis type I, in which case there is often involvement of the optic nerves and very often a significant cystic component is evident ( 14 ). Otherwise, these tumors appear as well-defined suprasellar mass lesions which may show enhancement ( Fig 27 and 28 ) and may also show reactive signal change in the brain along the optic radiation. Calcification is not seen in these lesions. Figure 27. Sagittal T1 weighted enhanced image show a partially cystic and partially solid hypothalamic glioma in the suprasellar region. The mass is centered on the region of the optic chiasm and is flattening the pituitary stalk and hypothalamus. The pituitary gland is normal. Figure 28. T1 weighted coronal enhanced image show a partially cystic and
