Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


region of the optic chiasm and is flattening the pituitary stalk and hypothalamus. The pituitary gland is normal. Figure 28. T1 weighted coronal enhanced image show a partially cystic and partially solid hypothalamic glioma in the suprasellar region. The mass is centered on the region of the optic chiasm and is flattening the pituitary stalk and hypothalamus. The pituitary gland is normal. GERMINOMA These are rare intracranial germ cell tumors which most typically arise in the suprasellar or pineal regions ( 16 , 14 ). They are usually seen in children or young adults. These patients commonly have diabetes insipidus as one of the presenting complaints, and this reflects the involvement of the hypothalamus and pituitary stalk. Characteristic imaging appearances are those of a homogeneous, solidly enhancing mass involving the hypothalamic region with involvement of the upper aspect of the pituitary stalk ( Figs 29 and 30 ) If the lesions are large then the optic chiasm may be also involved. Involvement in both the suprasellar region and the pineal region at the time of presentation is well recognized ( 16 ) ( Fig 29 ). Detection of tumor markers, either human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG) or alpha fetoprotein (AFP) can be detected in the serum/CSF to confirm the diagnosis ( 16 ), and may obviate the need for biopsy. The absence of these markers does not exclude the diagnosis and biopsy may be necessary. Dramatic resolution of the imaging findings after treatment can be seen as these tumors are very sensitive to radiation. These tumors can disseminate through the CSF spaces producing enhancement around the ventricular margins. Figure 29. Sagittal T1 weighted enhanced images of a germinoma. Figure demonstrates a large homogeneously enhancing soft tissue mass within the suprasellar region involving the upper aspect of the pituitary stalk and the hypothalamic region with a second separate mass visible in the region of the pineal gland - this is typical of a germinoma. Figure 30. Sagittal T1 weighted enhanced images of a germinomas. Figure demonstrates a small lesion in the region of the upper aspect of the stalk and hypothalamus (arrow). GRANULAR CELL TUMORS Granular cell tumors are rare, benign WHO grade 1 lesions most typically seen in the suprasellar region. They arise from the neurohypophysis and/or the pituitary stalk. They have also been known as choristomas ( 17 ) .Histologically, they appear to arise from the pituicyte which is the
