Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


They arise from the neurohypophysis and/or the pituitary stalk. They have also been known as choristomas ( 17 ) .Histologically, they appear to arise from the pituicyte which is the main posterior pituitary cell. These are seen as well-defined suprasellar masses related to the pituitary stalk with homogeneous enhancement ( Fig 31 ) ( 17 ). Despite their intimate relationship to the pituitary stalk, diabetes insipidus is not usually present although other endocrine disturbance may be present and these lesions may even be asymptomatic. If they have reached significant size, they may be associated with visual disturbance or headache. They are benign and slow growing with a low recurrence rate after surgery. Similar in appearance to the granular cell tumor, and equally rare, are the so called pituicytoma and the spindle cell oncocytoma. It seems that histologically these 3 entities show morphological overlap and may arise from a common lineage: they cannot be distinguished on imaging appearances ( 18 ). Figure 31. Sagittal enhanced T1 weighted image shows a well-defined enhancing mass within the pituitary stalk. The pituitary gland is normal, as is the hypothalamus. This was a granular cell tumor. LANGERHANS CELL HISTIOCYTOSIS This is a rare disease of childhood due to a proliferative disorder of the Langerhans cell of the dendritic cell line; CNS involvement is common but it is rarely the only site involved, skeletal involvement being the most frequent ( 19 ). A common location for intracranial involvement is the hypothalamo-pituitary axis. The MRI appearances characteristically show thickening of the pituitary stalk with enhancement ( Fig 32 ). The posterior pituitary bright spot is usually absent. These appearances correlate with the typical clinical presentation of diabetes insipidus. This is often an isolated intracranial abnormality but extra-axial/osseous intracranial mass lesions and degenerative changes in the cerebellum and basal ganglia are also recognized ( 19 ). Figure 32. Sagittal T1 enhanced image shows diffuse thickening of the pituitary stalk in a patient with Langerhans cell histiocytosis. HYPOPHYSITIS Hypophysitis is an inflammatory disorder of the pituitary gland which can be primary or secondary to a known infection or systemic disease. Primary hypophysitis includes autoimmune hypophysitis and other inflammatory forms of unknown cause. Distinct histopathological types are recognized; lymphocytic hypophysitis, granulomatous hypophysitis and xanthomatous hypophysitis ( 20 ). Lymphocytic and granulomatous hypophysitis have similar indistinguishable MR imaging features: enlargement of the gland producing the appearance of a sellar mass lesion
