Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


granulomatous hypophysitis and xanthomatous hypophysitis ( 20 ). Lymphocytic and granulomatous hypophysitis have similar indistinguishable MR imaging features: enlargement of the gland producing the appearance of a sellar mass lesion with suprasellar involvement of the stalk ( Figs 33 and 34 ). The gland may appear heterogeneous after contrast and there may be distortion of the chiasm if the suprasellar component is sizeable, which is not uncommon. Lymphocytic hypophysitis is the most common form occurring more often in females and classically presenting at the end of pregnancy or in the post-partum period with endocrine dysfunction ( 20 ) There may be also be diabetes insipidus which may correlate with loss of the posterior pituitary bright spot . A variant of this condition is the so-called lymphocytic infundibulo-neurohypophysitis where the inflammatory process selectively involves the pituitary stalk and the posterior pituitary tissue, and imaging reflects that showing enlargement of the posterior gland and stalk ( 21 ). Figure 33. Sagittal T1 weighted enhanced image of lymphocytic hypophysitis. There is slight enlargement and heterogeneity of the gland with thickening of the lower part of the stalk. The fossa is not enlarged. Figure 34. Coronal T1 weighted enhanced image of lymphocytic hypophysitis. There is slight enlargement and heterogeneity of the gland with thickening of the lower part of the stalk. The fossa is not enlarged. Secondary hypophysitis can be a reaction to a local process (e.g., infection or cyst rupture) or due to systemic disease, neoplastic processes or drugs. IgG4 plasma cell hypophysitis ( 22 ) and hypophysitis caused by the immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICPi) used in oncology ( 23 ) are now well described. The cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) agents (e.g. ipilimumab) and the programmed death 1 (PD-1) agents (e.g. nivolumab) can both cause hypophysitis, but the CTLA-4 agents more frequently do so, and the combination of CTLA-4 and PD-1 carries the highest risk of hypophysitis ( 23 ). Ipilimumab-related hypophysitis has been reported in up to 11% of patients and is commoner in men ( 24 ). ICPi-related hypophysitis usually occurs within several weeks to months of starting therapy and manifests with headache, fatigue and anterior pituitary hormonal deficiency. Diabetes Insipidus is very rare ( 23 ). MR typically shows a diffuse enlargement of the gland (more rarely the stalk or the gland plus stalk) which regresses after discontinuation of treatment. Enlargement that involves the chiasm is rare ( 21
