Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


a diffuse enlargement of the gland (more rarely the stalk or the gland plus stalk) which regresses after discontinuation of treatment. Enlargement that involves the chiasm is rare ( 21 ). Pituitary function may not recover despite the imaging normalization ( Fig 35 ). As many as 23% of cases may have a normal MR despite clinical evidence of drug-induced hypophysitis ( 25 ). Figure 35. Coronal T1 weighted enhanced image of ipilimumab-induced hypophysitis show diffuse enlargement of the gland with slightly heterogenous enhancement. IgG4 related hypophysitis is one manifestation of IgG4 related disease. In around 40% of cases it may be an isolated manifestation, but in the majority of cases there is multi-organ involvement, most commonly lung or retroperitoneum ( 26 ). Clinical symptoms can relate to the sella mass effects, central diabetic insipidus, or anterior hypopituitarism. In distinction to drug-related hypophysitis, there is a high incidence of diabetes insipidus. A recent case series of 76 cases ( 26 ) identified a pituitary mass in 22.4%, a thickened stalk in 26.3%, while 51.3% had both a pituitary mass and a thickened stalk. As it is a fibro-inflammatory process the involved pituitary/ stalk may show low T2W signal ( Figs 36 and 37 ). A paraneoplastic syndrome with Anti-Pit 1 antibodies is a recognized cause of hypophysitis (with no specific radiological feature from other causes of hypophysitis). Systemic disease such as Granulomatosis with polyangiitis can occasionally involve the pituitary gland, the low T2 signal seen in IgG4 disease ( Fig 37 ) would also be a feature of this type of granulomatous involvement. Figure 36. Sagittal enhanced T1 weighted image shows a diffusely enlarged gland and enlarged stalk, of low T2 signal -see Fig 37 - due to IgG4 hypophysitis. Figure 37. Coronal T2 weighted image shows a diffusely enlarged gland and enlarged stalk, of low T2 signal due to IgG4 hypophysitis. All forms of hypophysitis can ultimately result in hypopituitarism with a small volume pituitary gland on imaging ( Figs 38 and 39 ). Figure 38. Sagittal enhanced T1 weighted images show a diffusely enlarged gland and enlarged stalk due to hypophysitis. Figure 39. Sagittal enhanced T1 one year after hypophysitis has resulted in a small volume pituitary gland. Granulomatous hypophysitis is less common and is found equally in males and females. MR appearances are the same as those described for lymphocytic hypophysitis ( 20 ). Xanthomatous hypophysitis is
