Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


Granulomatous hypophysitis is less common and is found equally in males and females. MR appearances are the same as those described for lymphocytic hypophysitis ( 20 ). Xanthomatous hypophysitis is the least common form and is characterized by a distinctly cystic appearance on imaging. An intrasellar cyst without suprasellar extension or involvement of the stalk is the most recognized appearance ( 20 ). THE EMPTY SELLA An empty sella contains only CSF without any visible pituitary tissue (anterior or posterior). The pituitary stalk will be visible and typically extends down to the floor of the sella ( Figs 40 and 41 ). An empty sella may be the result of previously documented pituitary/hypothalamic pathology or treatment (e.g., surgery, radiotherapy, hypophysitis, Sheehan’s syndrome or pituitary apoplexy). However, it may also be discovered incidentally during MR scanning or in the course of investigating a new endocrine problem, then referred to as a “primary empty sella” ( 27 ). A partially empty sella implies that some residual pituitary tissue can still be seen along the floor of the fossa. In the case of a primary empty sella it is thought that a defect in the diaphragma sella (the sheet of dura over the surface of the sella through which the stalk passes) has allowed increased communication with the pulsatile CSF in the subarachnoid space. Primary empty sella is more common in women and has been associated with intracranial hypertension, obesity, visual disturbance, and spontaneous CSF leaks. Endocrine problems may be seen in up to 25% of cases with a primary empty sella ( 27 ), the majority within this group being specifically investigated for a suspected endocrine abnormality. However, a small proportion of patients found to have an empty sella unexpectedly may have endocrine abnormalities on detailed testing. Figure 40. Sagittal enhanced T1 weighted image shows an empty sella. No pituitary tissue is visible, and the stalk extends down to the floor of the sella. The optic chiasm has prolapsed inferiorly, a not uncommon appearance after a large mass has been removed. Figure 41. Coronal enhanced T1 weighted image shows an empty sella. No pituitary tissue is visible, and the stalk extends down to the floor of the sella. The optic chiasm has prolapsed inferiorly, a not uncommon appearance after a large mass has been removed. ARACHNOID CYSTS Arachnoid cysts are benign, congenital CSF-containing cysts that arise within the arachnoid membrane. They can
