Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


prolapsed inferiorly, a not uncommon appearance after a large mass has been removed. ARACHNOID CYSTS Arachnoid cysts are benign, congenital CSF-containing cysts that arise within the arachnoid membrane. They can be found in the suprasellar region where they may displace and distort the chiasm and stalk and/or flatten the pituitary tissue ( Figs 42 and 43 ). They will always show the same signal as CSF on all MR imaging sequences, do not show any enhancement after contrast, and do not calcify. Figure 42. Sagittal unenhanced T1 weighted image shows an arachnoid cyst in the suprasellar region. This is markedly elevating the hypothalamus and stretching the pituitary stalk. Figure 43. Coronal unenhanced T1 weighted images show an arachnoid cyst in the suprasellar region with elevation of the right side of the chiasm by the cyst. No cyst wall is evident and the pituitary tissue itself is normal. CONGENITAL PITUITARY ABNORMALITIES Congenital hypopituitarism can manifest as isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD) or combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD), which can be related to anatomical abnormalities of the hypothalamic/pituitary structures on MR imaging. Imaging features include an ectopic location to the posterior pituitary which is seen to be undescended and is visible as a high signal area in the region of the median eminence ( Fig 44 ). There may be absence of the pituitary stalk and/or hypoplasia of the anterior pituitary tissue. Other congenital abnormalities of midline structures may be associated with these hypothalamic/pituitary features: optic nerve hypoplasia, absence of the septum pellucidum, and corpus callosum abnormalities ( 28 ). CPHD is more often associated with callosal and stalk abnormalities than the milder forms of hypopituitarism such as IGHD ( 28 ). There are many genetic associations with both IGHD and CPHD, covered in detail in other sections. Figure 44. Sagittal T1 weighted unenhanced image. This demonstrates a small pituitary fossa containing a reduced volume of anterior pituitary tissue. The stalk cannot be seen and the posterior pituitary bright spot (arrow) is lying in an ectopic location within the hypothalamus. An incidental but uncommon imaging finding is that of a lipoma in the suprasellar cistern ( Fig 45 ). This is identified as an entirely high T1 signal mass adjacent to normal hypothalamic and pituitary structures. The fatty nature of the mass can be confirmed with a fat-saturation sequence which will obliterate the signal from the mass. Figure 45. Sagittal T1 weighted
