Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


hypothalamic and pituitary structures. The fatty nature of the mass can be confirmed with a fat-saturation sequence which will obliterate the signal from the mass. Figure 45. Sagittal T1 weighted unenhanced image. There is a high signal mass lying just below the hypothalamus and behind the pituitary stalk in the suprasellar cistern. This is a lipoma. The pituitary tissue and stalk are normal. HYPOTHALMIC HAMARTOMAS These are benign developmental mass lesions that arise in the tuber cinereum of the hypothalamus and can be associated with central precocious puberty, gelastic (laughing) seizures, and sometimes developmental delay. The lesions are easily identified on MR imaging as they have a distinctive appearance as an almost pedunculated rounded mass hanging from the hypothalamus. They are of similar signal to the grey matter of the brain and do not show enhancement after contrast injection ( Fig 46 ). Histologically, they are composed of well differentiated neurons and glial cells. They are sometimes approached surgically if the epilepsy is proving refractory to treatment. Figure 46. Sagittal T1 weighted enhanced image of a hypothalamic hamartoma. There is a non-enhancing mass visible arising from the under surface of the hypothalamus and lying behind the pituitary stalk. SARCOID CNS involvement is seen in about 25% of cases of sarcoid ( 29 ) but many of these are subclinical. Neurosarcoid has a wide spectrum of intracranial imaging appearances including high T2 lesions in the white matter, meningioma-like dural masses, optic nerve lesions, and leptomeningeal enhancement ( 30 ). Involvement of the pituitary stalk/hypothalamus is one manifestation and may be part of more widespread leptomeningeal enhancement or may be isolated ( Figs 47 and 48 ). If there is widespread leptomeningeal enhancement then appearances may be indistinguishable from TB meningitis ( 30 ) Figure 47. Sagittal T1 weighted enhanced images show thickening of the pituitary stalk and nodular enhancement of the right side of the chiasm in a patient with neurosarcoid. Figure 48. Coronal T1 weighted enhanced images show thickening of the pituitary stalk and nodular enhancement of the right side of the chiasm in a patient with neurosarcoid. SKULL BASE TUMORS Tumors of the central skull base may involve the sella or parasellar region and are in the differential diagnosis of any large mass around the sella which has significant bony involvement. Primary tumors occurring in this region are the chordoma and the chondrosarcoma ( 14 ) Chordomas arise from
