Radiology of the Pituitary
KEYWORDS: pituitary, stalk, weighted, gland, figure, image, signal, hypophysitis, sella, tissue, seen, suprasellar, fig, mass, imaging


of any large mass around the sella which has significant bony involvement. Primary tumors occurring in this region are the chordoma and the chondrosarcoma ( 14 ) Chordomas arise from remnants of the primitive notochord and are seen as well-defined, centrally-located, expansile masses arising from the clivus. They show distinctive high signal on T2 weighted images and bony destruction on CT ( Fig 49 ). Chondrosarcomas (malignant mesenchymal tumors) have a similar appearance but tend to arise just lateral to the clivus at the site of the petroclival synchondrosis ( Fig 50 and 51 ); however, it is often not possible to distinguish between these two tumor types radiologically ( 31 ). Any destructive bony malignancy such as metastatic disease or plasmacytoma may involve the central skull base. Figure 49. Sagittal CT reconstruction shows a destructive bony lesion in the clivus – a chordoma, the sella itself is preserved. Figure 50. Axial T2 image of a chondrosarcoma. This shows the typical bubbly high T2 signal and involves the right side of the pituitary fossa, the right cavernous sinus and extends into the right middle cranial fossa. Figure 51. Axial-enhanced T1 weighted image of a chondrosarcoma. This shows the typical bubbly high T2 signal and involves the right side of the pituitary fossa, the right cavernous sinus and extends into the right middle cranial fossa. ECCHORDOSIS PHYSALIPHORA Ecchordosis physaliphora is a benign, congenital, hamartomatous notochord remnant usually found in the retroclival region. They are typically small, asymptomatic and can be found in up to 2% of autopsies. They are histologically identical to chordomas, which are typically sizeable and present with brainstem or cranial nerve compression. On MR imaging they lie in the retroclival, prepontine region, are similar signal to CSF, notably high signal on T2 sequences ( Fig 52 ) and show variable (usually none to little) enhancement. CT classically shows a well-defined, non-aggressive clival bony defect. A bony stalk may be seen, and this is considered pathognomonic ( Fig 53 ). Although previously considered a distinct clinical entity they are now considered to lie at the benign end of a pathological spectrum that extends to chordomas ( 32 ). Fig 52. Axial T2 volumetric scan shows a small nodule of T2 hyperintense tissue extending through a well-defined midline bony defect in the clivus (arrow). Fig 53. Axial CT of the skull base shows a well-defined cortical defect (arrow) in the
