Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: abatacept, covid-, recommendation, guideline, patients, guidelines, critical, diseases, evidence, severe, society, infectious diseases, infectious, ton, treatment


defined as patients requiring high-flow for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information nasal cannula oxygen/non-invasive ventilation or invasive me- please contact . chanical ventilation or ECMO. IDSA 2025 Clinical Practice Guideline Update on the Treatment and Management of COVID-19: Abatacept • CID 2025:81 (15 October) • i17 Downloaded from by guest on May BACKGROUND SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE Abatacept is a recombinant fusion protein (cytotoxic The search identified 1 randomized, controlled trial T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 [CTLA-4] linked to human (N = 1049), ACTIV-1 IM, that reported on adults aged immunoglobulin) that is used to block T cell activation . ≥18 years with severe COVID-19 who were randomized to CTLA-4 is a protein receptor that is expressed by activated treatment with abatacept (10 mg/kg, maximum dose T cells. By mediating inhibitory signals, this receptor can de- 1000 mg) plus standard of care or standard of care alone crease T cell proliferation and cytokine production . This (Supplementary Table 1) . Standard of care across the treat- mechanism helps suppress immune responses, making it valu- ment and control arms included remdesivir (93–94%), corti- able for treating autoimmune conditions. Abatacept is U.S. costeroids (89–93%), tocilizumab (3%), and baricitinib (1–3%). Food and Drug Administration–approved for the treatment Though the primary endpoint of the study was time to recov- of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and psori- ery, this trial also reported on the outcomes of mortality at atic arthritis, as well as the prevention of acute graft versus host 28 days, recovery at 28 days (assessed by the first day a hospi- disease . Excessive T cell stimulation and proliferation talized participant did not require oxygen or ongoing care, or were thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of COVID-19; the patient was not hospitalized with or without limitations consequently, abatacept was considered as a potential option on activities, ie, categories 6, 7, or 8 on an 8-point ordinal scale), for treating COVID-19 by modulating the T cell response . and serious adverse events (Table 1). Although abatacept is not approved for the treatment of ment of hospitalized patients with moderate to severe Among hospitalized patients, abatacept showed a trend toward COVID-19 . reduced mortality at 28 days compared to no abatacept treat- In this focused update to the 2023 guideline , a
