Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: abatacept, covid-, recommendation, guideline, patients, guidelines, critical, diseases, evidence, severe, society, infectious diseases, infectious, ton, treatment


Among hospitalized patients, abatacept showed a trend toward COVID-19 . reduced mortality at 28 days compared to no abatacept treat- In this focused update to the 2023 guideline , a recom- ment (risk ratio [RR], 0.73; 95% confidence interval [CI]: mendation is provided for abatacept. The primary audience 0.53–1.01; low certainty of evidence). In addition, patients re- for this recommendation is clinicians who treat hospitalized ceiving abatacept trended toward improved recovery as mea- adults with severe or critical COVID-19. sured by improvement to hospitalization without oxygen 95% CI: 0.98–1.28; moderate certainty of evidence). METHODS The panel’s recommendation is based on a systematic review of Harms available evidence and adheres to a standardized methodology for Serious adverse events among patients receiving abatacept did rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation ac- not differ from those receiving usual care (RR, 0.94; 95% CI: cording to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, 0.77–1.16; low certainty of evidence). The low certainty of evi- Development, and Evaluation) approach (Supplementary Figure 1) dence was due to very serious concerns with imprecision, re- . The recommendation has been endorsed by the Pediatric flecting both the wide CI, which includes appreciable benefits Infectious Diseases Society, Society for Healthcare Epidemiology, and possible harms, and few reported events. and Society of Critical Care Medicine. Strong recommendations are made when the recommended Other Considerations course of action would apply to most people with few excep- The panel agreed that the overall certainty of evidence was low tions. Conditional recommendations are made when the sug- (Table 1, Supplementary Table 2), given the sparseness in mor- gested course of action would apply to the majority of people tality data and because the 95% CIs cannot exclude the poten- with many exceptions and shared decision making is tial for no meaningful difference in mortality, recovery, and important. serious adverse events. Regarding the definition of severe, rap- A literature search was conducted in August 2024 as part of a idly progressing COVID-19, the panel recognizes that SpO systematic review. Key eligibility criteria at both the topic and alone may not always correlate with disease severity, and the clinical question levels guided the selection of studies for inclu- recommendation should be interpreted in the clinical context cluded. The primary comparison of interest was abatacept There are limited human data on the use of abatacept in versus no abatacept. pregnancy, and its use in pregnancy
