Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: abatacept, covid-, recommendation, guideline, patients, guidelines, critical, diseases, evidence, severe, society, infectious diseases, infectious, ton, treatment


to sell, distribute, or modify the guidelines or to make derivative in children or adolescents with severe or critical COVID-19. works of or incorporate the guidelines into any product, including, but not Except for the permission granted above, any person or entity who would sider enrolling children and adolescents, particularly given the like to use the guidelines in any way must contact IDSA for approval in ac- pediatric experience with abatacept and available pediatric dos- cordance with the terms and conditions of third-party use, in particular, ing recommendations for non–COVID-19 indications. any use of the guidelines in any software product. Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Diseases The guideline panel suggests the use of abatacept in hospital- Society of America. This project has been funded in whole or in part with tion does not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the Department of COVID-19, when baricitinib and tocilizumab are not available. products, or organizations imply endorsement by the US government. Supplementary Data Potential conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as potential Supplementary materialsare available at Clinical Infectious Diseases online. conflicts of interest (COI) is determined by a review process. The assess- Consisting of data provided by the authors to benefit the reader, the posted ment of disclosed relationships for possible COIs is based on the relative materials are not copyedited and are the sole responsibility of the authors, weight of the financial relationship (ie, monetary amount) and the rele- so questions or comments should be addressed to the corresponding vance of the relationship (ie, the degree to which an association might rea- author. sonably be interpreted by an independent observer as related to the topic or recommendation of consideration). No panelists had COIs directly related Notes to abatacept. The following panelists have scientific advisory/consultant roles not related to the topic of COVID-19 with indicated companies: Acknowledgments. The expert panel acknowledges former panelists for R. B. with Merck and Gilead, E. S. D. with Gilead, D. V. G. with Merck their work on the primary guideline. The panel also acknowledges the follow- and Gilead, S. S. with Pfizer (concluded), P. T. with Merck, and ing organizations and selected reviewers for their review of the draft manu- R. G. with Merck. The following panelists have scientific advisory/consul- script: Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, Society of Infectious Diseases tant roles related to COVID-19 but not severe/critical COVID-19 with in- Pharmacists,
