Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: abatacept, covid-, recommendation, guideline, patients, guidelines, critical, diseases, evidence, severe, society, infectious diseases, infectious, ton, treatment


G. with Merck. The following panelists have scientific advisory/consul- script: Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, Society of Infectious Diseases tant roles related to COVID-19 but not severe/critical COVID-19 with in- Pharmacists, Society for Healthcare Epidemiology, and Society of Critical dicated companies: R. B. with Shionogi, K. C. with Pardes Biosciences Care Medicine; Drs Judith Aberg and John O’Horo; and Drs Robin (concluded), A. Y. K. with Shionogi, S. S. with Adamis and Immunome Colgrove and Nicolás Cortés-Penfield on behalf of the IDSA Standards & (concluded), and P. T. with Shionogi. J. C. P. had a scientific advisory/con- Practice Guidelines Subcommittee. sultant role (concluded) with InflaRx related to vilobelimab for critical Drs Adarsh Bhimraj and Rajesh T. Gandhi are chair and vice chair of the COVID-19. No disclosures were reported for all other authors (the major- panel, respectively. The Hospitalized Patients subgroup, under the leader- ity of panelists), including chair and vice chair. ship of Dr Nandita Nadig, led the development of the recommendation. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential Remaining panelists assisted with interpretation of data, as well as drafting, Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the con- revising, and approving the recommendation and manuscript. Drs Rebecca tent of the manuscript have been disclosed. Morgan, lead methodologist, and Yngve Falck-Ytter, methodologist, were Additional information. More detailed information on the analysis and de- responsible for designing and performing the data analyses and leading velopment of the recommendation is available in the Supplementary Material. the panel according to the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation process. Jennifer Loveless, methodologist, was responsible for project planning and management, including revisions References to and final approval of the recommendation and manuscript. 1. Alegre ML, Frauwirth KA, Thompson CB. T-cell regulation by CD28 and Disclaimer. It is important to recognize that guidelines cannot always CTLA-4. Nat Rev Immunol 2001; 1:220–8. account for individual variation among patients. They are assessments of 2. Oyewole-Said D, Konduri V, Vazquez-Perez J, Weldon SA, Levitt JM, Decker current scientific and clinical information provided as an educational ser- WK. Beyond T-cells: functional characterization of CTLA-4 expression in im- vice; are not continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evi- mune and non-immune cell types. Front Immunol 2020; 11:608024. dence (new evidence may emerge between the time information is drafted 3. Mohamed Ahamada M, Wu X. Analysis of efficacy and safety of
