Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


events 1 Recommendations This guidance applies to people who have had an occlusive vascular event, or who have established peripheral arterial disease. For people who have had a myocardial infarction, this guidance follows on from the recommendations for clopidogrel in combination with low-dose aspirin in NICE's previous guidelines on MI – secondary prevention, and unstable angina and NSTEMI (these have now been replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes). This guidance does not apply to people who have had, or are at risk of, a stroke associated with atrial fibrillation, or who need treatment to prevent occlusive events after coronary revascularisation or carotid artery procedures. 1.1 Clopidogrel is recommended as an option to prevent occlusive vascular events: • for people who have had an ischaemic stroke or who have peripheral arterial disease or multivascular disease or • for people who have had a myocardial infarction only if aspirin is contraindicated or not tolerated. 1.2 Modified-release dipyridamole in combination with aspirin is recommended as an option to prevent occlusive vascular events: • for people who have had a transient ischaemic attack or • for people who have had an ischaemic stroke only if clopidogrel is contraindicated or not tolerated. 1.3 Modified-release dipyridamole alone is recommended as an option to prevent occlusive vascular events: • for people who have had an ischaemic stroke only if aspirin and clopidogrel are contraindicated or not tolerated or • for people who have had a transient ischaemic attack only if aspirin is contraindicated or not tolerated. 1.4 Treatment with clopidogrel to prevent occlusive vascular events should be started with the least costly licensed preparation. 1.5 People currently receiving clopidogrel or modified-release dipyridamole either with or without aspirin outside the criteria in sections 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 should have the option to continue treatment until they and their clinicians consider it appropriate to stop. 2 Clinical need and practice 2.1 Occlusive vascular events include ischaemic stroke, transient ischaemic attack and myocardial infarction. They occur when blood flow is impeded because an artery is blocked or restricted because of atherosclerosis and atherothrombosis. Atherosclerotic plaques form in artery walls because of damage to the vascular endothelium. Damage is caused by a number of factors working together over a long period, such as elevated low-density lipoproteins, smoking, high blood pressure and diabetes mellitus. If an atherosclerotic plaque is suddenly disrupted, platelet activation and thrombus (clot) formation follows, leading to
