Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


long period, such as elevated low-density lipoproteins, smoking, high blood pressure and diabetes mellitus. If an atherosclerotic plaque is suddenly disrupted, platelet activation and thrombus (clot) formation follows, leading to atherothrombosis. The thrombus can block an artery, either at the original site of the plaque formation or further down the artery. People who have had an occlusive vascular event are at increased risk of another. 2.2 Peripheral arterial disease is a condition in which the arteries that carry blood to the arms or legs become narrowed or clogged, slowing or stopping the flow of blood. It occurs most often because of atherosclerosis. People who have peripheral arterial disease are at high risk of having an occlusive vascular event. People with cardiovascular disease who have disease in more than 1 vascular site are said to have multivascular disease. These people are at increased risk of death, myocardial infarction or stroke, compared with people with disease in a single vascular bed. 2.3 Each year in the UK an estimated 98,000 people have a first ischaemic stroke, between 46,000 and 65,000 people have a transient ischaemic attack, and 146,000 have a myocardial infarction. Approximately 2% of the population of England and Wales have had a stroke and about 70% of all strokes are ischaemic. In the UK, in total around 510,000 people have had a transient ischaemic attack and over 1.4 million have had a myocardial infarction. About 20% of the UK population aged 55 to 75 years have evidence of lower extremity peripheral arterial disease, equating to a prevalence of 850,000 people, of whom 5% have symptoms. An estimated 16% of people with cardiovascular disease have multivascular disease. 2.4 Ischaemic stroke and myocardial infarction are associated with high mortality rates. Approximately 23% of people die within 30 days of having a stroke, and of the people who survive, 60% to 70% die within 3 years. Thirty per cent of people die from their first myocardial infarction. In terms of morbidity, an occlusive vascular event can lead to a stay in hospital, reduced health-related quality of life and long-term disability, with a resulting impact on caregivers. Stroke is the leading cause of disability in the UK and it is thought that more than 900,000 people in England are living with the effects of stroke, with about half dependent on others for support with everyday activities. 2.5 The aim of treatment is to prevent
