Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


900,000 people in England are living with the effects of stroke, with about half dependent on others for support with everyday activities. 2.5 The aim of treatment is to prevent occlusive vascular events, and their recurrence. This can include pharmacological therapy with 1 or more antiplatelet agents. Antiplatelet agents include aspirin, clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole. 2.6 For people who have had a non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), NICE's previous guideline on unstable angina and NSTEMI (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) recommended that aspirin should be started and continued indefinitely, unless contraindicated. In people with predicted 6-month mortality greater than 1.5%, clopidogrel should be considered in addition to aspirin, unless contraindicated, and continued for 12 months. For people who have had an ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), NICE's previous guideline on MI: secondary prevention (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) recommended that patients treated with a combination of aspirin and clopidogrel during the first 24 hours after the myocardial infarction should continue this treatment for at least 4 weeks. Thereafter, standard treatment including low-dose aspirin should be given, unless there are other indications to continue dual antiplatelet therapy. 2.7 The 'National service framework for coronary heart disease' states that GPs and primary care trusts should identify all people with established cardiovascular disease and offer them comprehensive advice and appropriate treatment to reduce their risk of recurrent occlusive vascular events. GP contracts include points for the number of people with coronary heart disease or who have had a stroke and who are taking antiplatelet therapy for secondary prevention. 3 The technologies 3.1 Clopidogrel (Plavix, Sanofi-Aventis, Bristol-Myers Squibb) is an irreversible adenosine diphosphate-receptor antagonist with antiplatelet properties. Clopidogrel is available as branded and generic preparations and has a marketing authorisation for 'the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease'. 3.2 Contraindications to clopidogrel include severe liver impairment and active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial haemorrhage. For full details of side effects and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 3.3 The cost of branded clopidogrel for 30 days at a dose of 75 mg daily is £35.64 per person (BNF, edition 60). The cost of generic clopidogrel 75 mg in the NHS Drug Tariff (October 2010) is £3.40
