Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


at a dose of 75 mg daily is £35.64 per person (BNF, edition 60). The cost of generic clopidogrel 75 mg in the NHS Drug Tariff (October 2010) is £3.40 for 30 days. Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 3.4 Modified-release dipyridamole (Persantin Retard and Asasantin Retard, Boehringer Ingelheim) has both antiplatelet and vasodilating properties and is thought to inhibit the uptake of adenosine into blood and vascular cells. Dipyridamole may also inhibit the breakdown of cyclic guanosine monophosphate. Modified-release dipyridamole has a marketing authorisation for the 'secondary prevention of ischaemic stroke and transient ischaemic attacks either alone or in conjunction with aspirin'. It is available either on its own as Persantin Retard, or in a combination tablet with aspirin as Asasantin Retard. 3.5 Dipyridamole has activity as a vasodilator; therefore, it should be used with caution in people with severe coronary artery disease, including unstable angina and/or recent myocardial infarction, left ventricular outflow obstruction or haemodynamic instability (for example, decompensated heart failure). For full details of side effects and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 3.6 The cost of treatment for 30 days with modified-release dipyridamole alone is £7.50 and modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin is £7.79 per person (BNF, edition 60). Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 4 Evidence and interpretation The Appraisal Committee considered evidence from a number of sources. 4.1 Clinical effectiveness 4.1.1 Four randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were identified by the Assessment Group. Two of these were included in the previous NICE technology appraisal guidance 90 (CAPRIE and ESPS-2) and 2 were published later (ESPRIT and PRoFESS). The RCTs were considered by the Assessment Group to be of good quality. Three of the trials were double blind and 1 was an open-label study (ESPRIT). 4.1.2 CAPRIE (n=19,185) compared clopidogrel with aspirin and ESPRIT (n=2,736) compared modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin with aspirin. ESPS-2 (n=6,602) had 4 groups and compared modified-release dipyridamole with modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin, and with aspirin and with placebo. PRoFESS (n=20,332) made a head-to-head comparison of clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin. A wide range of dosages of aspirin were used in the trials. 4.1.3 All the trials included people who had experienced an ischaemic stroke and 2 trials included people who had experienced a transient ischaemic attack (ESPS-2 and ESPRIT). CAPRIE was the only trial to include people who had a prior
