Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


clopidogrel (compared with aspirin) reduced the risk of a first occurrence of ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction or vascular death (14.9% relative risk reduction; 95% CI 0.3 to 27.3, p=0.045). Modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel 4.1.11 The PRoFESS trial investigated the non-inferiority of modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel. The trial reported no statistically significant difference in the primary outcome of recurrent stroke of any type (HR 1.01; 95% CI 0.92 to 1.11). For the secondary outcomes, there was a statistically significant reduction in the risk of events in the modified-release dipyridamole group compared with the clopidogrel group for new or worsening congestive heart failure (HR 0.78; 95% CI 0.62 to 0.96) and a statistically significant increase in the risk of events in the modified-release dipyridamole group compared with the clopidogrel group for intracranial haemorrhage (HR 1.42; 95% CI 1.11 to 1.83). Indirect comparisons 4.1.12 The Assessment Group completed an indirect comparison that compared clopidogrel, modified- release dipyridamole plus aspirin, modified-release dipyridamole alone and aspirin using data from the 4 RCTs. Comparisons were made in a population of people with a history of ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack. 4.1.13 The Assessment Group reported that the results from the mixed treatment comparison showed no statistical difference between the pairs of drug interventions, except for the outcomes of 'any recurrent stroke' and major bleeding. Compared with people assigned to treatment with aspirin, there was evidence of a risk reduction for 'any recurrent stroke' in people taking either clopidogrel (RR 0.75; 95% CI 0.60 to 0.93) or modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin (RR 0.76; 95% CI 0.62 to 0.92). People treated with modified-release dipyridamole alone were at statistically significant higher risk of 'any recurrent stroke' than people treated with either clopidogrel or modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin. The direct and indirect evidence was consistent. 4.2 Cost effectiveness Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi-Aventis model (clopidogrel) 4.2.1 The Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi-Aventis model estimated the cost effectiveness of 4 treatments for the secondary prevention of occlusive vascular events. These treatments were aspirin, clopidogrel, modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin and modified-release dipyridamole alone. In line with the licensed indications for the products, all 4 treatments were compared for use in people with a prior ischaemic stroke. In people with a history of myocardial infarction, peripheral arterial disease or multivascular disease, clopidogrel was compared with aspirin. 4.2.2 The manufacturers submitted a Markov model that comprised 6 health states:
