Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


people with a history of myocardial infarction, peripheral arterial disease or multivascular disease, clopidogrel was compared with aspirin. 4.2.2 The manufacturers submitted a Markov model that comprised 6 health states: no event in model, history of stroke, history of myocardial infarction, TA80 state (an intermediate state reflecting the previous NICE technology appraisal guidance 80 [now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes], which recommended clopidogrel plus aspirin for up to 12 months after an NSTEMI event), history of stroke and myocardial infarction, and death (split into vascular and non-vascular death). People entering the model could remain stable, have a myocardial infarction or stroke, or die. The modelled patient population was aged 65 years. The model was run with 3-month cycles for 35 years. The perspective adopted was that of the UK NHS in line with the NICE reference case. Costs and utility values were discounted at a rate of 3.5%. 4.2.3 Each patient population was modelled in the same way, with the exception that the baseline risks of vascular events differed by cohort (ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction, peripheral arterial disease and multivascular disease). Event rates were different for years 1, 2 and 3 of the model. Event rates in year 3 were used to inform the model from year 3 onwards. Relative treatment effects for clopidogrel, modified-release dipyridamole and modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin were based on either direct evidence or indirect evidence, using a network meta-analysis. The non-treatment costs used in the model were based on information from published burden of illness studies. Treatment costs were sourced from MIMS. All costs were inflated to 2007 to 2008 prices, if necessary. The model included the branded price of clopidogrel. Utility values were derived from the published literature and were between 0.61 and 0.87. A disutility associated with adverse events of between −0.3 and −0.001 was also applied in the model. 4.2.4 In people who have had an ischaemic stroke, modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin was associated with an additional cost of £107 and an additional quality- adjusted life year (QALY) of 0.45, producing an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £237 per QALY gained compared with aspirin. Clopidogrel was associated with an additional cost of £2,324 and an additional QALY of 0.07, producing an ICER of £31,204 per QALY gained compared with aspirin. Clopidogrel was associated with greater costs and fewer QALYs than modified- release dipyridamole plus aspirin. 4.2.5 In people who
