Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


producing an ICER of £31,204 per QALY gained compared with aspirin. Clopidogrel was associated with greater costs and fewer QALYs than modified- release dipyridamole plus aspirin. 4.2.5 In people who have had a myocardial infarction, clopidogrel was associated with an additional cost of £2,643 and an additional QALY of 0.13, producing an ICER of £20,662 per QALY gained compared with aspirin. For people with peripheral arterial disease, clopidogrel was associated with an additional cost of £2,470 and an additional QALY of 0.13, producing an ICER of £18,854 per QALY gained compared with aspirin. For people with multivascular disease, clopidogrel was associated with an additional cost of £1,805 and an additional QALY of 0.12, producing an ICER of £15,524 per QALY gained compared with aspirin. Boehringer Ingelheim model (modified-release dipyridamole) 4.2.6 The Boehringer Ingelheim model estimated the cost effectiveness of modified- release dipyridamole plus aspirin compared with aspirin, clopidogrel and no treatment. The manufacturer did not estimate the cost effectiveness of modified- release dipyridamole alone, because no new trial data were available for this treatment since NICE technology appraisal guidance 90. Separate analyses were conducted for people who have had an ischaemic stroke, and for people who have had a transient ischaemic attack. Only people tolerant to aspirin were considered in the analysis. 4.2.7 The manufacturer submitted a Markov model based on the Assessment Group model from NICE technology appraisal guidance 90. The model had 5 health states: no recurrent stroke, haemorrhagic stroke, recurrent ischaemic stroke, vascular death and non-vascular death. People entered the model at the 'no recurrent stroke' state and after each cycle of 6 months could move to any of the other 4 states, or remain in the current state. After each cycle, transitions could occur to the other states. 4.2.8 The baseline age in the model was 66 years, with a time horizon of 50 years. The perspective adopted was that of the NHS and personal social services. Transition probabilities between the states in the model for the first 4 years were taken from the PRoFESS, ESPRIT and ESPS-2 trials. Different transition probabilities were calculated for each 6-month period over the 4 years. Transition probabilities in subsequent years for the stroke states were based on the final 6-month period of the 4 years. Transition probabilities to death were estimated based on a factor of 1.5 applied to Office for National Statistics death rate data for the general
