Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


6-month period of the 4 years. Transition probabilities to death were estimated based on a factor of 1.5 applied to Office for National Statistics death rate data for the general population. 4.2.9 Costs of stroke events were calculated from the literature and varied according to disabled or non-disabled status. Costs of hospital stay following congestive heart failure and other haemorrhagic events were sourced from the 2006 to 2007 National Reference Costs. Drug acquisition costs were based on branded drug costs for modified-release dipyridamole and aspirin, and clopidogrel, and on the generic price for aspirin (2009 prices). Utility data from the PRoFESS trial at 1 year were used, which was provided as commercial in confidence. A short-term disutility associated with different events was also included in the model. Costs and utility values were discounted at a rate of 3.5% per year. 4.2.10 In people who have had an ischaemic stroke, treatment with modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin was associated with an additional cost of £704, and 0.131 additional QALYs per person with a corresponding ICER of £5,377 per QALY gained, compared with aspirin. Treatment with clopidogrel compared with modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin was associated with additional costs of £1,808 and 0.015 additional QALYs per person with an ICER of £114,628 per QALY gained. The results were similar in people who have had a transient ischaemic attack. In this population, treatment with modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin compared with aspirin was associated with an additional cost of £732 and 0.121 additional QALYs per person with an ICER of £6,053 per QALY gained. The manufacturer reported that its model suggested that at a cost-effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per QALY gained, modified- release dipyridamole plus aspirin would no longer be cost effective compared with clopidogrel if the price of generic clopidogrel reduced to approximately 50% of that of branded clopidogrel. Assessment Group model 4.2.11 The Assessment Group developed an individual patient sampling model, in which a series of individual profiles were generated whose combined characteristics were representative of the specified population. Analyses were split by population: ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction, peripheral arterial disease and multivascular disease. The ischaemic stroke and transient ischaemic attack populations were assumed to be equivalent in risk and outcomes and so were modelled together. Within the myocardial infarction group, treatment strategies as described in NICE's previous guidelines on STEMI and NSTEMI (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) were modelled
