Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


modelled together. Within the myocardial infarction group, treatment strategies as described in NICE's previous guidelines on STEMI and NSTEMI (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes) were modelled initially. Once initial treatment was completed according to the guidelines, potential treatment strategies for this appraisal were considered as follow-on treatment. 4.2.12 The Assessment Group presented different treatment strategies, depending on the population and intolerances. The Assessment Group considered that this approach reflected the real world, because people may switch between different treatments. For each person in the model, age, sex and disability status was set. According to these variables, estimates of time to first event were applied. These events determined the event history of the person and included a fatal or new non-fatal ischaemic stroke event, a fatal or new non-fatal non-ischaemic stroke event, a fatal or new non-fatal myocardial infarction, death from other vascular causes, death from non-vascular causes and person discontinues current preventive medication for any reason. Only 1 event could occur at any 1 time. If the event was non-fatal then the person continued in the model, with an updated age, sex and disability status and updated risks, with the potential to incur additional events over time, moving through the model over a lifetime. Each person was modelled in the same way. Data provided by the manufacturers from the CAPRIE and PRoFESS trials were used to develop risk models for the economic model and to work out event fatality. An exponential survival function was used to model medication continuance over time. Adverse events were incorporated into the model. 4.2.13 Resource use was measured in terms of clinical events and time spent in chronic states, and differed by disability status. Drug costs were taken from the BNF58 and from the NHS Drug Tariff (January 2010) for generic clopidogrel, which at that point reported that the price of 30 tablets was £10.90. Unit costs were drawn from various sources, including the manufacturers' submissions, and inflated if necessary to 2009. The costs were £6,410 for non-fatal ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke if the person was not disabled and £13,647 if they were disabled, £8,768 for fatal ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke, £5,762 for non-fatal myocardial infarction, £2,218 for fatal myocardial infarction and £2,225 for other vascular or non-vascular death. 4.2.14 Utility values were also drawn from a variety of sources, including the manufacturers' submissions and additional analyses requested from the manufacturer.
