Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


and £2,225 for other vascular or non-vascular death. 4.2.14 Utility values were also drawn from a variety of sources, including the manufacturers' submissions and additional analyses requested from the manufacturer. Mean utility values were assigned to each chronic health state and a specific utility decrement effect was applied for each modelled event. Utility values for the myocardial infarction and peripheral arterial disease groups were 0.87 and 0.80 respectively. Utility values for the ischaemic stroke group and all utility decrements were taken from the Boehringer Ingelheim submission. Discounting at 3.5% was applied to costs and benefits after the first year. A lifetime horizon was used. 4.2.15 Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted to explore the impact of uncertainty on the cost-effectiveness estimates. People who have had an ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack 4.2.16 For people who have had an ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack, when the branded price for clopidogrel was used, the Assessment Group reported that the optimal treatment strategy was modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin, followed by aspirin and finally clopidogrel. This produced an ICER of £16,894 per QALY gained and incremental costs of £354 and 0.021 QALYs compared with treatment with the next best strategy of modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin, followed by aspirin. 4.2.17 When the generic price for clopidogrel was used, the optimal treatment strategy changed so that it began with clopidogrel, followed by modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin and finally aspirin. This produced an ICER of £13,558 per QALY gained, compared with the next best strategy of clopidogrel, followed by aspirin, followed by modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin. This strategy was associated with an additional cost of £334 and 0.024 additional QALYs. 4.2.18 For people with intolerance to aspirin, clopidogrel followed by modified-release dipyridamole was the optimal treatment strategy with an ICER of £7,142 per QALY gained compared with treatment with clopidogrel alone. This strategy was associated with an additional cost of £616 and 0.086 additional QALYs. It could be calculated from the data that for people with intolerance to aspirin and clopidogrel or for whom clopidogrel was not licensed, the optimal treatment strategy was modified-release dipyridamole alone with an ICER of £314 per QALY gained compared with no preventive treatment. This strategy was associated with an additional cost of £167 and 0.531 additional QALYs. 4.2.19 For people with intolerance to modified-release dipyridamole, the optimal treatment strategy depended on the price of clopidogrel. At the branded
