Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


an additional cost of £167 and 0.531 additional QALYs. 4.2.19 For people with intolerance to modified-release dipyridamole, the optimal treatment strategy depended on the price of clopidogrel. At the branded price, the preferred strategy was aspirin followed by clopidogrel with an ICER of £6,797 per QALY gained, compared with clopidogrel alone. This strategy was associated with an additional cost of £628 and 0.092 additional QALYs. At the generic price, the optimal strategy was clopidogrel followed by aspirin, compared with aspirin followed by clopidogrel, with an ICER of £3,970 per QALY gained, an additional cost of £224 and 0.056 additional QALYs. For people with intolerance to both aspirin and modified-release dipyridamole, only clopidogrel is available for long- term prevention. It was considered optimal by the Assessment Group compared with no preventive therapy, with an ICER of £275 per QALY gained. This strategy was associated with an additional cost of £163 and 0.591 additional QALYs. 4.2.20 From the Assessment Group's analysis of the ischaemic stroke data, the ICERs could be calculated for people with intolerance to clopidogrel or for whom treatment with clopidogrel is not licensed, such as people who have had a transient ischaemic attack. Treatment with modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin followed by aspirin had an ICER of £9,145 per QALY gained, compared with treatment with aspirin followed by modified-release dipyridamole. This strategy was associated with an additional cost of £567 and 0.062 additional QALYs. People who have had a myocardial infarction 4.2.21 The Assessment Group reported that for people who have had a myocardial infarction the optimal treatment strategies were the same regardless of the price of clopidogrel. Aspirin followed by clopidogrel, compared with aspirin alone, was the optimal strategy for this population, with an ICER of £1,964 per QALY gained (using the price of generic clopidogrel) and a difference in costs of £185 and QALYs of 0.094. For people with intolerance to aspirin, treatment with clopidogrel was likely to be the optimal treatment, compared with no preventive therapy, with an ICER of £2,020 per QALY gained (using the price of generic clopidogrel) and a difference in cost of £468 and 0.232 additional QALYs. 4.2.22 After consultation on the appraisal consultation document, the Assessment Group provided a reanalysis of the data for people who have had a myocardial infarction. This analysis used a price of clopidogrel of £5.13, reflecting the NHS tariff price for August 2010. The results showed that
