Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


data for people who have had a myocardial infarction. This analysis used a price of clopidogrel of £5.13, reflecting the NHS tariff price for August 2010. The results showed that the lower price had no effect on the optimal treatment strategy: aspirin followed by clopidogrel remained the optimal treatment strategy. People with established peripheral arterial disease 4.2.23 The Assessment Group reported that for people with peripheral arterial disease the optimal treatment strategies were the same regardless of the price of clopidogrel. Clopidogrel followed by aspirin was the optimal strategy for this group, with an ICER of £2,815 per QALY gained. It was associated with an additional cost of £983 and an additional 0.349 QALYs compared with treatment with aspirin alone followed by treatment with clopidogrel. In people with intolerance to aspirin, clopidogrel alone was the optimal treatment strategy. Compared with no preventive therapy, clopidogrel gave an additional 0.773 QALYs at a cost of £557, with an ICER of £721 per QALY gained. People with multivascular disease 4.2.24 The Assessment Group reported that for people with multivascular disease the optimal treatment strategies were the same regardless of the price of clopidogrel. Clopidogrel followed by aspirin was the optimal strategy for this group, compared with aspirin followed by clopidogrel. For the optimal strategy, treatment was associated with an ICER of £2,604 per QALY gained, and incremental costs of £595 and incremental QALYs of 0.228. In people with intolerance to aspirin, clopidogrel alone was the optimal treatment strategy and was associated with lower total costs of -£548 compared with no preventive therapy, 0.723 additional QALYS and a corresponding ICER of -£758 per QALY gained. 4.3 Consideration of the evidence 4.3.1 The Appraisal Committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole, having considered evidence on the nature of occlusive vascular events and peripheral arterial disease and the value placed on the benefits of clopidogrel and modified- release dipyridamole by people who have had an occlusive vascular event or are at risk of one, those who represent them, and clinical specialists. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. 4.3.2 The Committee discussed current clinical management for the prevention of occlusive vascular events. The Committee heard from clinical specialists that they would value clear, straightforward guidance so that treatment could be started at the earliest possible point, when the risk of recurrent events is
