Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


Committee heard from clinical specialists that they would value clear, straightforward guidance so that treatment could be started at the earliest possible point, when the risk of recurrent events is highest. Patient experts explained that treatment with clopidogrel or modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin was an important part of treatment for the prevention of occlusive vascular events but is just 1 part of a wider programme of management involving both pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment. The Committee heard from the patient experts that people are often on a number of treatments and would value a reduction in the number of tablets that need to be taken. The Committee heard from the patient experts that they considered that clopidogrel had fewer severe side effects than aspirin or modified-release dipyridamole. The Committee recognised that antiplatelet therapy such as clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole was 1 part of clinical management and that people valued treatments with ease of administration and few side effects. 4.3.3 The Committee discussed the results of the ESPRIT and PRoFESS trials, which became available after the publication of NICE technology appraisal guidance 90. The Committee noted that these trials included people who have had an ischaemic stroke or a transient ischaemic attack and there was no new evidence for people with peripheral arterial disease or for people who have had a myocardial infarction. The Committee discussed the results of the PRoFESS trial and considered that it had not shown that clopidogrel provided greater benefits than modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin. But the Committee also considered that the trial had not shown that modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin provided greater benefits than clopidogrel. The Committee noted comments made in the consultation on the appraisal consultation document about the exclusion of the MATCH and CHARISMA trials, but considered that these trials studied a combination of clopidogrel plus aspirin that was outside the scope of this appraisal. Likewise, it noted comments made about the EARLY trial that compared early and standard initiation of treatment, but considered that this had been appropriately excluded from the Assessment Group's review. The Committee concluded that the data published after NICE technology appraisal guidance 90 supported the conclusions in that guidance. 4.3.4 The Committee specifically discussed the duration of follow-up in the ESPRIT and PRoFESS trials, recognising that in NICE technology appraisal guidance 90 the evidence was limited to 2 years' follow-up. It noted that the ESPRIT trial had a mean follow-up
