Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


ESPRIT and PRoFESS trials, recognising that in NICE technology appraisal guidance 90 the evidence was limited to 2 years' follow-up. It noted that the ESPRIT trial had a mean follow-up of 3.5 years and the PRoFESS trial had a mean follow-up of 2.5 years. The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that in clinical practice the length of time people stayed on treatment varied, but it could be longer than 2 years. The clinical specialists discussed evidence from the ESPRIT trial that showed that Kaplan-Meier curves by treatment group continued to diverge over time. While the clinical specialists recognised that the study and its results have limitations, they considered that this provided evidence of a continued treatment effect beyond the 2 years used in NICE technology appraisal guidance 90. The Committee was persuaded that it was appropriate to examine the Assessment Group's analyses of cost effectiveness without specifying a limit on the duration of treatment. 4.3.5 The Committee considered the subgroup of people with multivascular disease. It noted that there is a range of definitions of multivascular disease, but heard from the clinical specialists that identifying the subgroup of people with multivascular disease was important and clinically meaningful. The Committee discussed the post-hoc analyses from the CAPRIE trial that suggested that this group is at high risk of occlusive vascular events and may need more intensive treatment. The Committee was aware of the limitations of post-hoc analyses but noted that the subgroups were based on large numbers of people. On balance, it considered multivascular disease to be appropriate to consider in the cost-effectiveness analysis. 4.3.6 The Committee recognised that after the publication of NICE technology appraisal guidance 90, clopidogrel became available in a number of generic preparations. The Assessment Group's analyses used both the branded and generic prices. The Committee was aware that after the assessment report was written the price of clopidogrel was reduced further from approximately £10 to approximately £5 per month. It noted that this would affect the cost- effectiveness results, because treatment with generic clopidogrel would cost less than previously stated. The Committee considered that it was appropriate to take account of the generic price of clopidogrel in its considerations and that any treatment with clopidogrel should use the least costly licensed preparation. 4.3.7 The Committee discussed the cost-effectiveness results from the 2 manufacturers' models. The Committee considered the Boehringer Ingelheim model, which reported that in
