Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


should use the least costly licensed preparation. 4.3.7 The Committee discussed the cost-effectiveness results from the 2 manufacturers' models. The Committee considered the Boehringer Ingelheim model, which reported that in people who have had an ischaemic stroke or a transient ischaemic attack, treatment with modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin was cost effective compared with aspirin, with ICERs of around £5,400 and £6,100 per QALY gained, respectively. The Committee considered the Bristol- Myers Squibb and Sanofi-Aventis model, which found that in people who have had an ischaemic stroke, treatment with modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin was cost effective with an ICER of around £240 per QALY gained compared with aspirin. In people who have had a myocardial infarction, or who have peripheral arterial disease and for people with multivascular disease, the ICERs were all below £21,000 per QALY gained, compared with aspirin. The Committee discussed the limitations of the models, noting that in the submissions neither model used the generic price of clopidogrel. However, the Committee was aware that the manufacturer of modified-release dipyridamole had commented that at a cost-effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per QALY gained, if the price of generic clopidogrel was about 50% of that of branded clopidogrel, modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin would no longer be cost effective compared with clopidogrel. Furthermore, the Committee was aware of comments in response to consultation on the Assessment Report from the manufacturer of clopidogrel that for people who have had an ischaemic stroke, using a price of £10.90 for clopidogrel produced an ICER of under £500 per QALY gained for clopidogrel in comparison with modified-release dipyridamole. 4.3.8 The Committee discussed the results of the Assessment Group's model for the subgroup of people with peripheral arterial disease. It noted that a treatment strategy of clopidogrel followed by aspirin had an ICER of around £2,800 per QALY gained, compared with aspirin alone. For people with intolerance to aspirin, treatment with clopidogrel had an ICER of around £720 per QALY gained compared with no preventive therapy. The Committee considered that for people with peripheral arterial disease clopidogrel was a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 4.3.9 The Committee discussed the results of the Assessment Group's model for the subgroup of people with multivascular disease. It noted that a treatment strategy of clopidogrel followed by aspirin had an ICER of around £2,600 per QALY gained, compared with aspirin alone. In people with intolerance to aspirin, clopidogrel was a cost-saving
