Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


treatment strategy of clopidogrel followed by aspirin had an ICER of around £2,600 per QALY gained, compared with aspirin alone. In people with intolerance to aspirin, clopidogrel was a cost-saving strategy, costing less and producing more benefits than no preventive therapy. The Committee considered that for people with multivascular disease clopidogrel was a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 4.3.10 The Committee discussed the results of the Assessment Group's model for the subgroup of people who have had a myocardial infarction. It recognised that the model had incorporated NICE's previous guidelines on the use of clopidogrel plus aspirin for treating STEMI and NSTEMI (now replaced by NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes), and modelled the use of clopidogrel monotherapy after its use as a combination therapy for acute coronary syndromes. The treatment strategy of aspirin followed by clopidogrel had an ICER of £2,000 per QALY gained, compared with aspirin alone. A treatment strategy of clopidogrel followed by aspirin was associated with greater costs and fewer QALYs than starting with aspirin. In people with intolerance to aspirin, clopidogrel had an ICER of £2,000 per QALY gained compared with no preventive therapy. The Committee discussed the re-analysis provided by the Assessment Group after the consultation on the appraisal consultation document, which showed that the further reduction of the price of clopidogrel to £5.13 (the price in July 2010) had no effect on the optimal treatment strategy. The Committee concluded that for people who have had a myocardial infarction, when treatment with combined clopidogrel and aspirin therapy is no longer appropriate, clopidogrel was a cost- effective use of NHS resources only for people who have a contraindication to aspirin or intolerance to it. 4.3.11 The Committee discussed the results of the Assessment Group's model for people who have had an ischaemic stroke. The Committee noted that the optimal treatment strategy changed depending on whether the branded or generic price of clopidogrel was used. When the generic price of clopidogrel was used, the Assessment Group model found that clopidogrel followed by modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin and then aspirin alone had an ICER of £13,600 per QALY gained, compared with clopidogrel followed by aspirin, followed by modified- release dipyridamole plus aspirin. In people with intolerance to modified-release dipyridamole, clopidogrel followed by aspirin had an ICER of £4,000 per QALY gained compared with aspirin alone. In people with intolerance to aspirin, clopidogrel followed by modified-release dipyridamole alone
