Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive vascular
KEYWORDS: aspirin, clopidogrel, people, dipyridamole, treatment, modified-release, modified-release dipyridamole, stroke, compared, ischaemic, disease, qaly, plus aspirin, plus, committee


modified-release dipyridamole, clopidogrel followed by aspirin had an ICER of £4,000 per QALY gained compared with aspirin alone. In people with intolerance to aspirin, clopidogrel followed by modified-release dipyridamole alone had an ICER of £7,100 per QALY gained, compared with treatment with clopidogrel alone. For people who had intolerance to clopidogrel and aspirin, treatment with modified- release dipyridamole alone had an ICER of £314 per QALY gained in comparison with no preventive treatment. The Committee recognised that the differences in the total costs and QALYs for the different treatment strategies each including clopidogrel, modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin and aspirin were small. However, it noted that these were consistent in all analyses, and with a further reduction in the price of clopidogrel the differences in costs would be larger. The Committee concluded that using clopidogrel at the generic price was a cost- effective use of NHS resources. Modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin was a cost-effective use of NHS resources only when it was used for people who had a contraindication or intolerance to clopidogrel. Modified-release dipyridamole alone was a cost-effective use of NHS resources only when it was used in people who had a contraindication or intolerance to aspirin and clopidogrel. 4.3.12 The Committee heard from the clinical specialists that people who have had a transient ischaemic attack are sometimes treated with clopidogrel. However, the Committee recognised that recommendations could not be made for the use of clopidogrel for people who have had a transient ischaemic attack because clopidogrel is not licensed for this indication. For people who have had a transient ischaemic attack, treatment with modified-release dipyridamole plus aspirin followed by aspirin had an ICER of £9,100 per QALY gained compared with treatment with aspirin alone. For people who had intolerance to aspirin, treatment with modified-release dipyridamole alone had an ICER of £314 per QALY gained in comparison with no preventive treatment. The Committee considered that for people who have had a transient ischaemic attack, treatment with modified- release dipyridamole plus aspirin could be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. Modified-release dipyridamole alone was considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources for people who have had a transient ischaemic attack only if aspirin is contraindicated or not tolerated. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires integrated
