W J C C World Journal of
KEYWORDS: insomnia, axis, intestinal, studies, pathway, gut, brain, medicine, sleep, treatment insomnia, treatment, flora, wang, immune, tcm


W J C C World Journal of Clinical Cases Submit a Manuscript: World J Clin Cases 2024 December 26; 12(36): 6867-6870 DOI: ISSN 2307-8960 (online) EDITORIAL Traditional Chinese medicine treatment of insomnia based on microbial-gut-brain axis theory Xue-Jian Wang and experimental Shaanxi Province, China Invited article; Externally peer reviewed. Peer-review model: Single blind Nantong 226000, Jiangsu Province, China. Peer-review report’s classification Scientific Quality: Grade B Abstract Novelty: Grade B Creativity or Innovation: Grade B In recent years, insomnia has gradually become a common disease in society, Scientific Significance: Grade C which seriously affects people's quality of life. At present, with the deepening of research on intestinal microbiota-gut-brain axis in Western medicine, many P-Reviewer: Zhou HJ studies suggest that regulating the gastrointestinal tract can treat brain-related diseases. It is found that brain-gut-bacteria axis plays an important role in the Revised: September 6, 2024 treatment of insomnia with Western medicine can improve the insomnia 2024 therapy cannot be carried out. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and acu- Processing time: 155 Days and 16.1 puncture techniques have certain therapeutic effects on insomnia. TCM believes Hours that the brain and gastrointestinal system are connected through the meridian, and the pathophysiology is closely related. This paper will discuss the theory and feasibility of TCM for the treatment of insomnia from the pathological relation- ship between brain-gut axis, intestinal flora and insomnia. Key Words: Insomnia; Microorganism; Microbial-gut-brain axis; Traditional Chinese medicine; Acupuncture and moxibustion ©The Author(s) 2024. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. WJCC 6867 December 26, 2024 Volume 12 Issue 36 Wang WJ. Insomnia based on microbial-gut-brain axis theory Core Tip: In recent years, insomnia has gradually become a common disease in society, which seriously affects people's quality of life. At present, with the deepening of research on intestinal microbiota-gut-brain axis in Western medicine, many studies suggest that regulating the gastrointestinal tract can treat brain-related diseases. Citation: Wang XJ. Traditional Chinese medicine treatment of insomnia based on microbial-gut-brain axis theory. World J Clin Cases 2024; 12(36): 6867-6870 URL: DOI: INTRODUCTION Insomnia is a condition in which the patient is dissatisfied with the duration and/or quality of sleep, thereby affecting daytime social functioning. Cognitive decline, fatigue, or mood disorders associated with impaired daytime function occur. Lack of sleep is the main cause of decreased daytime activity and cognitive ability. Chronic insomnia can lead to depression, anxiety, substance abuse, suicide, auto accidents, and immune disorders[2-4].
