W J C C World Journal of
KEYWORDS: insomnia, axis, intestinal, studies, pathway, gut, brain, medicine, sleep, treatment insomnia, treatment, flora, wang, immune, tcm


occur. Lack of sleep is the main cause of decreased daytime activity and cognitive ability. Chronic insomnia can lead to depression, anxiety, substance abuse, suicide, auto accidents, and immune disorders[2-4]. In today's increasingly affected by intestinal flora, and the mechanism may be related to neurotransmitters, immune factors and neuropeptides in the brain-gut axis. BACKGROUND OF GUT MICROBIOTA-GUT-BRAIN AXIS In the 1980s, the concept of "brain-gut axis" was first proposed, which refers to the bidirectional regulatory axis connecting the gastrointestinal tract and the central nervous system (CNS). The brain-gut axis consists of two pathways: (1) The descending pathway from the brain to the gut; and (2) The ascending pathway from the gut to the brain. Gut flora affects the brain primarily by secreting small molecules, but also by regulating immune, neuroendocrine, and vagal pathways. The gut microbiota-gut-brain axis (GBA) is a key regulatory pathway between the brain and the gastro- intestinal tract. BRAIN-GUT AXIS AND PRIMARY INSOMNIA The GBA is a dynamic bidirectional neuroendocrine system. This bidirectional communication network consists of the CNS, autonomic nervous system, enteric nervous system (ENS), and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis system. The outer branches of the glycemic index (GI) tract are connected to the enterobrain axis via the spinal cord and vagus nerve fibers, while the brain transmits outgoing parasympathetic and sympathetic nerves to the GI tract. According to recent studies on the pathophysiology of insomnia, one is that insomnia is related to the secretion disorder of cortisol and adrenalin releasing hormone caused by the dysfunction of HPA axis. Secondly, insomnia is highly correlated with central neurotransmitters and inflammatory response factors, among which 5-HT, gamma-aminobutyric acid, tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 are dominant[9-11]. INTESTINAL FLORA AND PRIMARY INSOMNIA The intestinal microbial community is composed of more than 1000 types of bacteria, most of which belong to firmicutes, bacteroides, Proteus and actinomyces. Numerous studies have identified the microbial-GBA. In this axis, the gut microbiota affects brain function and generates two-way information flow through three main pathways. The first is the immunomodulatory pathway, in which the microbiota interacts with immune cells to influence the levels of cytokines, cytokinetic response factors, and prostaglandin E2. The second is that insomnia is related to autonomic nervous dysfunction, autonomic nervous function is innervated by the pineal gland, in which the sympathetic god regulates the secretion of melatonin by the pineal gland, further affecting the quality of sleep. The third is the vagus nerve
