W J C C World Journal of
KEYWORDS: insomnia, axis, intestinal, studies, pathway, gut, brain, medicine, sleep, treatment insomnia, treatment, flora, wang, immune, tcm


by the pineal gland, in which the sympathetic god regulates the secretion of melatonin by the pineal gland, further affecting the quality of sleep. The third is the vagus nerve pathway, where the ENS plays a large role. The ENS forms synaptic connections with the vagus nerve, which connects the gut to the brain, forming an information transmission pathway known as the enteric microbial-ENS-vago-brain pathway. The CNS also affects intestinal flora. The HPA axis can regulate intestinal peristalsis, epithelial cell function and intestinal permeability, thus affecting the environment of intestinal microbiota and further changing the composition of intestinal microbiota[18-20]. WJCC 6868 December 26, 2024 Volume 12 Issue 36 Wang WJ. Insomnia based on microbial-gut-brain axis theory DAMAGE OF INTESTINAL FLORA TO INSOMNIA Chronic disturbance of host circadian rhythm and sleep loss will affect the metabolism of intestinal flora and trigger changes in its composition, usually reducing the total number of Lactobacillaceae organisms, but increasing the population of bacteroides polyformis and so on, resulting in microbial ecological imbalance[21-23]. Changes in the gut microbiome may mediate the harmful effects of insomnia, which are closely linked to inflammation. Modern studies have found that inflammation is a key mediator in the pathogenesis of metabolic and neurodegenerative diseases related to sleep deprivation. Insomnia can cause elevated lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which in turn activates the Toll-like receptor 4/nuclear transcription factor-kappa B (TLR4/NF-κB) signaling pathway, thus promoting the production of inflammatory factors. In addition, insomnia can also cause the imbalance of intestinal microflora, destroy the intestinal barrier, and increase the toxin content in peripheral blood, which indicates that microbial metabolites may participate in the inflammatory response induced by insomnia after entering the circulation. Studies have suggested that insomnia can lead to the imbalance of intestinal microbial ecosystem, the destruction of intestinal barrier, and the influx of bacterial metabolites (LPS) into peripheral blood, thus activating the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway and ultimately promoting the development of inflammatory response. TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE AND GBA Sleep is an active process occurring in the CNS, which is regulated by the nervous, endocrine and immune systems, and there are various complex connections among these systems, which participate in the regulation of sleep-wake mechanism. Recent studies have shown that acupuncture can regulate the level of disturbed neurotransmitters, cytokines and hormones, promote the expression of biological clock genes, and maintain sleep-wake cycle. The types of studies acupuncture in the treatment of insomnia and promoting clinical application.
