Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


ABSTRACT The brain integrates the response to a variety of signals of energy need and availability to match food intake with energy expenditure, thereby maintaining body weight stability. Early work with rodent models with disrupted energy balance (generally obesity) identified many hypothalamic genes and signaling pathways that impact energy homeostasis. More recent studies have identified hindbrain circuits that interact with peripheral metabolic signals and hypothalamic circuits to impact energy balance. Feeding, signals of energy utilization, and hormonal signals of energy stores (such as leptin) modulate gene expression and neurotransmission in specialized circuits within the hypothalamus and brainstem to control food intake. While many of these circuits also control energy expenditure, the effects on body weight that arise from alterations in energy expenditure are generally more modest than the effects of produced by changes in feeding. Although most of the mechanistic work that defined the systems that control energy balance utilized rodent models, these systems have human orthologs whose disruption produces phenotypes comparable to those observed in rodents, confirming their conserved function. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Historically, obesity was thought to represent a disorder of voluntary behaviors, (albeit exacerbated by the ready availability of food and the reduced need for energy expenditure afforded by modern societies); many continue to hold this belief even today. In reality, we now understand that food intake and body weight represent biologically controlled homeostatic variables, much like blood pressure. This understanding flows from the discovery of spontaneously occurring single gene mutations that promote obesity independently of environmental alterations, along with the more recent description of human genetic variants that influence weight gain. Furthermore, research building upon these genetic observations has identified many of the biological systems that mediate the control of energy homeostasis, most of which reside in or converge on the central nervous system (CNS). Changes in body weight reflect an alteration of energy balance, where energy intake (calories from eating or drinking) and energy expenditure (either as locomotor activity, basal metabolism, or thermogenesis) become unequal. For instance, food intake in excess of energy expenditure promotes the accretion of excess weight. Adipose tissue represents the major repository for ingested energy that exceeds immediate needs ( 1 ) and excess adipose tissue represents the hallmark of obesity. The energy density of adipose tissue is nearly 10-fold greater than muscle (protein) or liver
