Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


exceeds immediate needs ( 1 ) and excess adipose tissue represents the hallmark of obesity. The energy density of adipose tissue is nearly 10-fold greater than muscle (protein) or liver (glycogen) ( 2 ). The ability to store energy in adipose tissue protects against environmental vicissitudes that might result in starvation, fetal wastage, and the inability to provide sufficient breast milk to the young. Therefore, evolution has likely selected for genetic variants that favor energy storage and conservation. The existence of environments in which excess calories are readily available with minimum or no effort occurred very recently in human evolution, while the human genetic blueprint evolved under the opposite circumstance. Thus, the modern obesity epidemic may represent, at least in part, a physiologic mismatch between the evolutionary pressures that bias toward energy storage and the modern, nutrient- and calorie-rich environment. The brain plays a central role in maintaining energy balance. CNS circuits continuously assess and integrate peripheral metabolic, endocrine and neuronal signals, and modulate both behaviors and peripheral metabolism to respond to acute and chronic needs ( 3 ). The brain modifies energy intake and expenditure to match energy demands on an ongoing homeostatic basis, establishing a metabolic “set-point”. A BRIEF HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE ON THE MECHANISMS THAT CONTROL ENERGY BALANCE Role for the Hypothalamus The description of Frölich syndrome (hyperphagic obesity and hypogonadism in patients with pituitary tumors) initially suggested that the pituitary gland might control energy balance ( 4 ). Others noted that pituitary tumors often impinge on the overlying hypothalamus, however, and suggested that the hypothalamus might represent the main modulator of feeding. Indeed, experiments by Hetherington and Ranson in 1940 demonstrated that lesions of the ventral medial portion of the hypothalamus increased feeding and promoted weight gain in rats, while lesions in the lateral hypothalamus led to decreased feeding and weight loss ( 5 ). In addition to demonstrating the importance of the hypothalamus to energy balance, these findings also led Eliot Stellar to suggest the concept of a “satiety center” situated in the ventral medial portion of the hypothalamus and a “hunger center” located in the lateral hypothalamus ( 6 ). This two-center model also fits with the notion that two behavioral systems govern feeding: the incentive and reward value system that modulates the wanting and liking of food, and the satiety system that promotes meal termination (associated with the sensation of “fullness”). While these systems
