Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


incentive and reward value system that modulates the wanting and liking of food, and the satiety system that promotes meal termination (associated with the sensation of “fullness”). While these systems are physiologically and anatomically integrated, simplicity often dictates their description and study as distinct entities. We now understand that the meal-terminating systems in the brainstem as well as the brain reward circuits work in conjunction with the hypothalamus to mediate the overall control of food intake and energy homeostasis. Furthermore, recent studies have demonstrated greater anatomic heterogeneity in the hypothalamic systems that control energy balance than suggested by the simple two-center model, as well as revealing finer functional complexity- with distinct subsets of neurons in the hypothalamus controlling individual aspects of food intake and energy expenditure. Genetic Models of Obesity Prove the Lipostatic Model of Energy Balance Animals (including humans) maintain remarkably constant adipose triglyceride stores ( 7 ), suggesting that the brain and periphery must communicate to coordinate feeding and energy expenditure so as to maintain this balance. Around the same time that lesioning studies demonstrated the importance of the hypothalamus for the control of energy balance ( 5 , 8 ), Kennedy proposed the lipostatic hypothesis of hunger: that an inhibitory factor produced by white adipose tissue in proportion to fat mass suppresses eating and body weight gain ( 9 ). He further suggested that lesions of the ventral medial hypothalamus increase food intake because of the removal of the site of action of the inhibitory signal from the fat. A strain of mice displaying dramatic hyperphagia and obesity from the time of weaning arose spontaneously at the Jackson Laboratory in 1949-50; the autosomal recessive allele conveying this phenotype was designated obese ( ob ) ( 10 ). Sixteen years later, a phenotypically similar mouse was identified ( 11 ). The diabetic state of these latter animals (studied on the diabetes-prone coisogenic KsJ background) distinguished them from ob/ob mice (which had been studied on the relatively diabetes-resistant B6 background), leading to the diabetes (db) designation for the new mutation . Seeking the molecular predicates of the lipostatic system posited by Kennedy ( 9 ) and Hervey ( 12 ), Douglas Coleman at Jackson Labs performed parabiosis studies coupling the circulation of ob/ob mice to either wild-type or db/db mice ( 13 ). While ob/ob mice became lean when joined to a wild type, they died of starvation when
