Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


the circulation of ob/ob mice to either wild-type or db/db mice ( 13 ). While ob/ob mice became lean when joined to a wild type, they died of starvation when joined to a db/db mouse. These findings led Coleman to hypothesize the deficiency of a blood-borne body weight-regulating factor in ob/ob mice and the unresponsiveness of db/db mice to this factor. Specifically, he suggested that the ob locus produced the secreted factor while the db locus encoded its receptor ( 13 , 14 ). In 1994, the Friedman group at Rockefeller University positionally cloned the gene mutated in ob/ob mice and demonstrated that it encoded a secreted factor (which they termed “leptin”) produced primarily by adipocytes ( 15 ). Exogenous leptin rescued the phenotype of ob/ob (now, Lep ob/ob ) mice, and decreased feeding and body weight in wild-type animals. Soon thereafter, several groups cloned the leptin receptor (LepR) and demonstrated the disruption of the crucial “long” LepR isoform (LepRb) in db/db ( Lepr db/db ) mice ( 16 – 19 ). The identification of leptin thus demonstrated the essential veracity of the lipostatic hypothesis. Interestingly, subsequent work has revealed a more complicated biology for leptin (whose absence sends a stronger signal than its excess (see below)), as well as suggesting the existence of additional factors that may contribute to the lipostatic control of food intake and energy balance. THE HYPOTHALAMUS AND THE HYPOTHALAMIC MELANOCORTIN SYSTEM The hypothalamus coordinates a host of homeostatic systems (e.g., sodium and water balance, reproduction, body temperature) in addition to energy balance. Given its need to coordinate these various functions, the hypothalamus must sense a broad array of nutrients, metabolites, hormones, and other factors ( 20 ). Of the many distinct nuclei (collections of neuronal cells) in the hypothalamus, the arcuate nucleus (ARC) plays a unique role in sensing peripheral signals. The ARC lies at the base of the hypothalamus adjacent to the median eminence (ME), a circumventricular organ that lies outside the blood brain barrier to permit direct sampling of the blood ( 20 ). Importantly, the initial lesions of the ventral medial hypothalamus reported by Hetheringon and Ranson included the ARC, as well as the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMH), the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH), and the periventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH). Lesions of the VMH nucleus alone failed to recapitulate the hyperphagic obesity caused by the larger (original) ventral medial lesions ( 21 ),
