Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


(DMH), and the periventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH). Lesions of the VMH nucleus alone failed to recapitulate the hyperphagic obesity caused by the larger (original) ventral medial lesions ( 21 ), suggesting important potential roles in the control of energy balance for one or more of these other hypothalamic nuclei. The Arcuate Nucleus Its proximity to the ME, together with its projections to deeper hypothalamic areas involved in the control of feeding (e.g., the DMH, PVH and the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA)), suggest that the ARC serves to sense humoral signals and convey this information to downstream structures to modulate homeostatic systems ( Figure 1 ) . Indeed, the core of the CNS melanocortin system, which integrates peripheral signals of energy balance and modulates feeding and energy expenditure, lies in the ARC ( 22 ). Figure 1. The hypothalamic melanocortin system. ARC POMC neurons produce aMSH and other POMC-derived peptides that act on downstream MC4R-expressing cells, such as PVH MC4R cells that play crucial roles in the suppression of food intake. ARC AgRP neurons (which also contain the inhibitory neurotransmitters NPY and GABA) release AgRP to antagonize MC4R signaling (increasing food intake) and also inhibit other PVH neurons to increase food intake and decrease energy expenditure. Signals of energy surfeit (including leptin) promote POMC neuron action; serotonin (5HT) also promotes POMC neuron action via 5HTR2c on these cells. In contrast, leptin inhibits AgRP cells, while orexigenic ghrelin also activates them. Not only does leptin act directly on these cells, but leptin action on unidentified LepRb/GABA neurons represents a major modulator of the melanocortin system. A y Reveals the Role for the CNS Melanocortin System in Energy Balance In 1902, French geneticist L. Cuenot described the obese Yellow ( A y /a ) mouse. Also termed ‘lethal yellow’ because homozygotes for A y die before birth, A y was bred by mouse fanciers in Europe beginning in the 1800s, and was notable for the dominant inheritance of a striking yellow coat, along with obesity proportional to the intensity of the yellowness of its coat ( 23 ). In 1960, another spontaneous mutation at the agouti locus arose in the Jackson Laboratory colony- viable yellow ( A vy ) ( 24 ). Expression of the wild-type agouti gene ( a ) normally occurs intermittently in the hair follicle, generating alternate yellow and black pigment bands of the resulting hair, producing the agouti coat
