Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


of the wild-type agouti gene ( a ) normally occurs intermittently in the hair follicle, generating alternate yellow and black pigment bands of the resulting hair, producing the agouti coat color ( 25 ). The original A y mutation represents a deletion within the gene encoding the RNA-binding protein Raly ( Raly) , which fuses the constitutively active Raly promoter to the agouti gene, resulting in constitutive ectopic overexpression of agouti in all somatic (including brain) cells ( 26 ). A vy also results from ectopic overexpression of agouti - due to the insertion of a retrovirus-like repetitive intracisternal A particle (IAP) into a noncoding exon of agouti ( 27 ). The agouti locus encodes agouti signaling protein (ASP), a peptide with high affinity for melanocortin receptors. The yellow coat color of the A y /a mouse results from continuous overexpression of ASP in the skin, which blocks alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH) signaling at melanocortin-1 receptors (MC1R) in the hair follicle ( 25 , 28 ). Since α-MSH activates melanocytes to initiate the synthesis of eumelanin (black pigment) instead of phaeomelanin (yellow pigment), antagonism of α-MSH/MC1R signaling by ASP elicits a yellow coat color. The brain also contains a melanocortin system, and this CNS melanocortin system controls energy balance ( 22 ). ICV administration of α-MSH or other melanocortin agonists decreases food intake and body weight ( 29 ). Overexpression of ASP in the A y /a brain antagonizes the anorectic action of α-MSH signaling and blunts the activity of brain melanocortin receptors, thus causing hyperphagia. Melanocortin Peptides and Receptors The post-translational modification and cleavage of the proopiomelanocortin (POMC) precursor peptide produces several melanocortin peptides, including adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), α-MSH (more prominent in rodents), ß-MSH (more prominent in humans) and γ-MSH; POMC processing also produces the opioid peptide, ß-endorphin ( 22 ). Within the CNS, the major population of POMC-producing cells resides in the ARC (a smaller population of brainstem POMC neurons may produce low levels of POMC and plays unclear roles in brain melanocortin signaling) ( 22 ). CNS melanocortin peptides act via the melanocortin-3 and -4 receptors (MC3R and MC4R) on target neurons. The ARC also contains neurons that produce agouti-related protein (AgRP, an antagonist/inverse agonist for MC3R and MC4R), along with the inhibitory neurotransmitters neuropeptide Y (NPY) and gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) ( 30 ) , ( 31 ). Thus, the core of the CNS melanocortin system
