Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


MC4R), along with the inhibitory neurotransmitters neuropeptide Y (NPY) and gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) ( 30 ) , ( 31 ). Thus, the core of the CNS melanocortin system comprises anorexigenic (appetite–suppressing) ARC POMC neurons, opposing orexigenic (hunger-inducing) ARC AgRP neurons, and MC3R and MC4R-containing target neurons throughout the CNS ( 22 ) ( Figure 1 ). ARC POMC Neurons Signals of positive energy balance, such as leptin, tend to activate POMC neurons and increase their Pomc expression ( 32 ). Artificially activating ARC POMC neurons decreases food intake ( 33 , 34 ). While ARC POMC neurons also contain the neuropeptide CART (and a few POMC neurons contain various amino acidergic transmitters) ( 35 , 36 ), most data suggest that melanocortin peptide action mediates the majority of the POMC neurons’ ability to suppress food intake and increase energy expenditure ( 37 ). The ablation of ARC Pomc expression promotes hyperphagic obesity similar to that of A y mice ( 34 ) , ( 38 ). The first evidence for a human melanocortin obesity syndrome resulted from the astute recognition of a rare agouti-mouse–like syndrome in two families, resulting from null mutations in the POMC gene ( 39 – 41 ). These patients have ACTH insufficiency, red hair, and obesity, resulting from the lack of ACTH peptide in the serum and a lack of melanocortin peptides in skin and brain, respectively. This obesity syndrome demonstrated that the CNS melanocortin circuitry subserves energy homeostasis in humans as it does in the mouse. The predictable, monogenetic heritability of the hyperphagic and obese phenotype caused by A y , ob , and db demonstrates the genetic underpinnings of feeding control and overall energy balance. The subsequent finding that the orthologs of rodent obesity genes control body weight in humans confirms that biologic/genetic factors control feeding and the predisposition to obesity in humans, as well as in rodents ( 42 ). ARC AgRP Neurons Fasting and signals indicating negative energy balance activate ARC AgRP neurons, while signals of positive energy balance (e.g., leptin) inhibit these cells. ARC AgRP neuron activation promotes feeding and decreases energy expenditure, while neuronal ablation results in lethal anorexia, consistent with the strong orexigenic nature of these cells ( 43 , 44 ). AgRP acts as an inverse agonist at MC3/4R, decreasing receptor activity and thus promoting positive energy balance by increasing food intake and decreasing energy expenditure
