Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


( 43 , 44 ). AgRP acts as an inverse agonist at MC3/4R, decreasing receptor activity and thus promoting positive energy balance by increasing food intake and decreasing energy expenditure ( 25 ). While the ablation of Agrp and/or Npy in ARC AgRP neurons minimally affects energy balance in wild-type animals, it attenuates the obesity of leptin-deficient animals ( 45 ). In contrast, blockade of GABA release from these neurons, via the cre recombinase-mediated deletion of the vesicular GABA transporter (vGat), results in leanness and interferes with the response to food restriction, suggesting that these neurons (and especially GABA release therefrom) are crucial for promoting food intake, especially in response to signals of negative energy balance ( 46 ). Importantly, the ARC contains additional populations of (non-AgRP-containing) GABA neurons that may mediate orexigenic signals in a manner similar to AgRP cells ( 47 ). Downstream Targets of the ARC Melanocortin System Melanocortin-mediated stimulation of MC3/4R decreases food intake and increases energy expenditure to promote negative energy balance in animals and humans ( 48 – 50 ). Mice null for Mc4r display substantial hyperphagia and increased adiposity/body weight, and also display increased linear growth, as is characteristic of A y /a mice ( 51 ). Mc3r -null mice display a more modest energy balance phenotype than Mc4r -null mice, with only modestly increased adipose mass, decreased lean mass, reduced fast-induced refeeding ( 52 , 53 ), elevated basal and fasting-induced corticosterone ( 53 ), and defects in circadian rhythms and meal entrainment ( 54 ). Thus, MC4R represents the major melanocortin receptor that mediates the control of food intake and body weight. Regions that contain large populations of MC3R- and MC4R-expressing neurons include the PVH, LHA, DMH, VMH, and ARC (the VMH and ARC contain MC3R only) ( 55 ). While a syndrome resulting from MC3R mutations in humans has not yet been definitively identified, MC4R clearly plays an important role in the control of body weight in humans, as well. Heterozygous frameshift mutations in the human MC4R locus associate with physical findings virtually identical to those reported for the mouse ( 51 ), with increased adipose mass, increased linear growth and lean mass, hyperinsulinemia greater than that seen in matched obese control subjects, and severe hyperphagia. MC4R haploinsufficient adults also exhibit reduced sympathetic tone and mild hypotension ( 56 ). MC4R haploinsufficiency in humans represents the most common monogenic cause
