Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


obese control subjects, and severe hyperphagia. MC4R haploinsufficient adults also exhibit reduced sympathetic tone and mild hypotension ( 56 ). MC4R haploinsufficiency in humans represents the most common monogenic cause of severe obesity, accounting for up to 5% of cases ( 57 – 59 ). Site-specific deletion studies have demonstrated a crucial role for MC4R in the PVH for the control of food intake and energy balance ( 60 , 61 ). While AgRP neurons project to and inhibit ARC POMC neurons via direct GABA action ( 62 ), this projection appears to play little role in the promotion of feeding by AgRP neurons ( 63 ). Rather, AgRP neurons most strongly increase feeding via their projections to the PVH (LHA projections also participate)( 64 ). Thus, the PVH plays crucial roles in the control of feeding by POMC and AgRP neurons. Interestingly, while AgRP neuron activation promotes feeding most strongly via the PVH, AgRP neuron inhibition decreases food intake at a distinct site: detailed studies of animals ablated for AgRP neurons demonstrate that the withdrawal of GABAergic inhibition from cells in the brainstem parabrachial nucleus (PBN) mediate this affect ( 65 ) (See below for additional details). Paraventricular Nucleus of the Hypothalamus (PVH) The PVH represents a major output nucleus for the hypothalamus, from which integrated information is transmitted to effector systems, such as the pituitary gland, the autonomic system, and behavioral control circuits ( 66 , 67 ). The identification of small deletions or translocations at the human Single-minded-1 ( SIM1 ) locus on chromosome 6 in three young obese patients suggested a crucial role for the PVH in energy balance in humans ( 68 ). SIM1 encodes a transcription factor that is expressed throughout the PVH and is required for the development of the PVH ( 68 ). While homozygous deletion of Sim1 is embryonic lethal in mice, animals heterozygous for Sim1 are normal until 4 weeks of age, when they develop hyperphagic obesity ( 69 ). These mice display reduced numbers of neuronal nuclei in the PVH with a proportional decrease in overall size of the PVH. Presumably, the decreased number of PVH neurons in Sim1 haploinsufficiency diminishes anorexic “tone” from the PVH, leading to hyperphagia and obesity in mice as well as in rare human patients with SIM1 mutations. As with other hypothalamic nuclei, the PVH contains a constellation of diverse neuronal subtypes. Identifying the
