Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


and obesity in mice as well as in rare human patients with SIM1 mutations. As with other hypothalamic nuclei, the PVH contains a constellation of diverse neuronal subtypes. Identifying the PVH subpopulations that mediate effects on food intake and energy expenditure represent a crucial research direction. Unsurprisingly, PVH MC4R neurons potently suppress food intake ( 60 , 61 , 70 ). Interestingly, however, PVH-projecting ARC AgRP neurons regulate cells that lack MC4R (in addition to regulating MC4R neurons), suggesting the existence of additional PVH populations that play roles in the control of energy balance ( 71 ). Nos1 -expressing PVH cells represent one important subset of appetite-regulating non-MC4R PVH cells ( 72 ). Other important non-MC4R PVH neurons include prodynorphin ( Pdyn )-expressing cells ( 71 ). Prominent populations of PVH neurons include those that contain hormones/neuropeptides, including oxytocin (OXT), corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), and thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH), arginine vasopressin (AVP), and oxytocin (OXT) ( 61 , 64 , 70 , 73 ).These peptides also control other endocrine and CNS functions: TRH and CRH stimulate the thyroid and adrenal axes, respectively; AVP contributes to fluid balance; and OXT regulates uterine function and social interactions ( 74 – 78 ). While these peptidergic PVH neurons do not contain MC4R, the injection of OXT into the hindbrain promotes satiation ( 64 ). Genetic data from mice argue against an important role of OXT or OXT neurons in energy balance, however. Not only do Oxt- null animals display no alteration in feeding or energy balance, but neither the activation nor the ablation of PVH OXT neurons in adult animals alters food intake ( 72 , 79 ). Furthermore, all of these peptide-containing PVH populations are only weakly anorexigenic in mice, and OXT, AVP, and CRH neurons do not mediate melanocortin responses ( 61 ). Thus, peptidergic PVH neurons play little role in the control of feeding, at least in mice, while distinct Mc4r -, Nos1 -, and Pdyn -containing PVH neurons (along with potentially other PVH neuron types that will be important to identify) play crucial roles in the control of feeding and energy balance. Interestingly, a recent GWAS analysis identified a polymorphism near the human anaplastic lymphoma kinase ( ALK ) locus that correlates with thinness. Decreased expression of this gene reduces adiposity in a variety of animal models and Alk expression in the PVH appears to mediate its effects on
