Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


locus that correlates with thinness. Decreased expression of this gene reduces adiposity in a variety of animal models and Alk expression in the PVH appears to mediate its effects on body weight ( 80 ). Identifying the cell type(s) that mediate the effects of Alk on body weight will be very informative. Dorsomedial Nucleus of the Hypothalamus (DMH) The DMH has long been implicated in energy balance regulation, as well as in the modulation of body temperature, arousal and circadian rhythms of locomotor activity ( 81 ). This nucleus receives direct input from the ARC and also contains LepRb-expressing neurons ( 82 , 84 ). While the exact molecular phenotype(s) of energy balance-regulating DMH cells remain poorly defined, recent studies have suggested that the LepRb-containing cells in this region play crucial roles for maintaining energy balance ( 85 ). Indeed, the viral-mediated disruption of DMH LepRb in adult mice augments food intake and promotes obesity ( 86 ). Furthermore, subpopulations of GABAergic DMH neurons play important roles in the leptin-mediated control of ARC POMC and AgRP cells (and thus, food intake) ( 85 , 87 , 88 ). TrkB-containing DMH neurons also contribute to the control of homeostatic feeding behavior ( 89 ). Thus, while details continue to emerge, the DMH plays crucial roles in leptin action, the control of the hypothalamic melanocortin system, food intake, and overall energy balance. Ventromedial Nucleus of the Hypothalamus (VMH) The VMH contains neurons that express LepRb, MC3R and other receptors involved in body weight regulation. Neurons in the dorsomedial portion of the VMH (dmVMH) express the transcription factor, steroidogenic factor 1 ( Sf1 ; Nr5a1 ) ( 90 ). Although Sf1 -deficient mice were first described in 1994, their early death due to adrenal insufficiency initially prevented the study of these mice in adulthood. Later, adrenal transplantation enabled the long-term survival of these mice, permitting the detection of late-onset obesity in Sf1 -deficient mice ( 91 ), consistent with a role for the VMH in the control of energy balance. The obesity of Sf1 -null mice results largely from decreased energy expenditure, however ( 91 ). Furthermore, Sf1 -cre-mediated ablation of LepRb doesn’t alter food intake, but rather decreases energy expenditure (thereby accentuating obesity in high-fat diet-fed animals) ( 92 ). Many Sf1 -containing VMH neurons contain the neuropeptide PACAP (the product of the Adcyap gene), which contributes to the control of energy
