Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


obesity in high-fat diet-fed animals) ( 92 ). Many Sf1 -containing VMH neurons contain the neuropeptide PACAP (the product of the Adcyap gene), which contributes to the control of energy expenditure ( 93 ). Thus, Sf1 -mediated manipulation of the dorsomedial VMH has revealed a crucial role for this region in overall energy balance, albeit by the modulation of energy expenditure, rather than food intake. Indeed, the dmVMH is generally thought to serve as an autonomic control center that modulates a variety of parameters driven by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS). In addition to controlling energy expenditure, the dmVMH also plays important roles in nutrient mobilization (as during the response to hypoglycemia) ( 94 – 97 ). Lateral Hypothalamic Area (LHA) While a network of systems that suppress food intake (albeit in a manner antagonized by AgRP neurons) reside in the ARC, DMH, and PVH, the LHA is often thought of as a region that promotes feeding. Well-known LHA neuronal subtypes include two distinct sets of excitatory neurons that receive input from leptin and melanocortins and contribute to the control of feeding and energy balance. One population contains the neuropeptide melanin concentrating hormone (MCH; not related to POMC or any of its derivative peptides) ( 98 ). First studied in mammals because of the increased expression of Mch mRNA in Lep ob/ob and fasted mice, administration of MCH increases food intake and body weight gain and decreases energy expenditure( 98 ). Furthermore, animals null for Mch (or its receptor) are lean ( 99 ). The MCH receptor localizes to the primary cilium, and some of the effects of ciliopathies on adiposity may be conveyed by effects on this receptor (see discussion of ciliopathies below). A distinct set of LHA neurons contain the neuropeptide, hypocretin (HCRT; also known as orexin) ( 100 , 101 ). Based upon early acute pharmacologic studies, HCRT was originally conceived of as an orexigen, since HCRT stimulates food intake when injected centrally during the light cycle. Consistently, fasting increases Hcrt mRNA expression and activates HCRT neurons ( 101 ). Subsequent work has revealed that animals null for HCRT or its receptors become mildly obese without observable alterations in food intake, however ( 102 ). Furthermore, mice (and dogs and humans) null for Hcrt or lacking HCRT neurons exhibit narcolepsy and increased body weight and adiposity ( 103 ). Thus, rather than having a primary role in
