Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


(and dogs and humans) null for Hcrt or lacking HCRT neurons exhibit narcolepsy and increased body weight and adiposity ( 103 ). Thus, rather than having a primary role in the control of feeding, HCRT neurons promote alertness and activity, and most of the effect of Hcrt mutation on energy balance results from decreased physical activity and energy expenditure, while HCRT administration promotes activity (and food intake) during the resting phase of the diurnal cycle. The LHA also contains LepRb neurons that control HCRT neurons; these contain neurotensin and lie intermingled with the HCRT cells ( 104 - 107 ). Ablation of LepRb from these LHA cells prevents the normal regulation of HCRT neurons and results in decreased locomotor activity and energy expenditure. Both LHA LepRb neurons and HCRT cells project to the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which contains a large number of dopaminergic neurons that represent the core of the mesolimbic reward system (see below for further discussion of reward pathways). Thus, while lesioning studies suggest that the integrity of the LHA is required for motivation and normal feeding behavior, most data suggest that it plays little role in the normal modulation of food intake. PERIPHERAL SIGNALS THAT MODULATE ENERGY BALANCE VIA THE HYPOTHALAMUS Homeostatic regulation of energy balance requires the brain to maintain appropriate energy levels by monitoring peripheral signals of energy status and metabolism to modulate food intake and a variety of autonomic and neuroendocrine determinants of energy utilization. This requires the ability to sense circulating signals of metabolic status. Leptin The discovery of leptin revealed the existence of an endocrine system that senses and modulates adipose stores. Disruption of leptin signaling results in hyperphagia and obesity, and leptin administration to leptin-deficient Lep ob/ob mice (but not LepRb-null Lepr db/db animals), reduces food intake and adiposity, sparing lean tissue ( 108 – 110 ). While the role for leptin in the control of appetite and adiposity initially dominated the thinking about its biology, it has become clear that the effects of elevated leptin are not as dramatic as those of low leptin. Indeed, diet-induced obese rodents and humans remain obese despite exhibiting high circulating concentrations of leptin, commensurate with their high levels of leptin-producing adipose tissue ( 111 , 112 ). In contrast to the Lep ob/ob mice, where leptin administration results in remarkable reversal of the obesity phenotype, increasing leptin to supraphysiologic levels in normal animals
