Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


111 , 112 ). In contrast to the Lep ob/ob mice, where leptin administration results in remarkable reversal of the obesity phenotype, increasing leptin to supraphysiologic levels in normal animals only modestly and briefly blunts food intake and body weight. Likewise, supraphysiological doses of leptin promote only modest effects on body weight in obese and non-obese humans( 113 ). Thus, the absence of leptin conveys a more powerful signal than does its excess. Lep ob/ob mice (and their leptin-deficient human counterparts) display additional phenotypes, including impaired growth and gonadal axis function, diminished immune function, infertility, and decreased activity and energy expenditure - all of which are reversed by leptin treatment ( 114 , 115 ). The lack of leptin also promotes increased hepatic glucose production, and leptin treatment suppresses hyperglycemia in several models of insulinopenic diabetes ( 116 , 117 ). Lipodystrophic people and transgenic animals that similarly lack adipose tissue exhibit leanness and low leptin levels, as well as hyperphagia, insulin resistance, diabetes and other endocrine and metabolic abnormalities that are not corrected by caloric restriction ( 109 , 110 , 118 ). Leptin replacement therapy to correct low leptin concentrations represents an important treatment for lipodystrophy syndromes in humans, decreasing their hunger and improving their endocrine and metabolic abnormalities ( 119 ). This constellation of phenotypes resulting from low leptin mirrors the physiologic response to starvation and leptin treatment attenuates many of these consequences of very low adiposity ( 115 ). Thus, normal leptin concentrations signal the repletion of energy (fat) stores to mitigate hunger and enable energy expenditure, while low leptin indicates the dearth of adipose reserves and promotes food-seeking and the conservation of remaining fat by reducing energy expenditure. THE NEUROBIOLOGY OF LEPTIN The similar phenotypes of Lep ob/ob and Lepr db/db mice (along with the inability of leptin to alter physiology in Lepr db/db mice) indicates that leptin action on LepRb-expressing cells must mediate its effects. Consistent with its behavioral effects (e.g., on feeding) and its effects on the neuroendocrine and autonomic systems, most LepRb-expressing cells lie in the brain ( 83 , 84 ). Similarly, ablation of LepRb in the CNS promotes hyperphagia, neuroendocrine failure, and obesity ( 120 ). Some cells outside of the CNS might express LepRb, but the physiologic role for leptin action on these non-CNS cells remains unclear. Within the brain, the majority of LepRb-expressing neurons reside within the hypothalamus
