Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


causes mild late-onset obesity, the disruption of Stat5a/b specifically in LepRb neurons produces no detectable phenotype, suggesting that STAT5 signaling is not required for leptin action in vivo ( 134 – 136 ). STAT5 represents a major mediator of GM-CSF signaling, however, and mice null for GM-CSFR in the brain are obese, suggesting that the role for STAT5 in energy balance may be linked to the action of GM-CSF or other cytokines different than leptin ( 135 ). Insulin Like leptin, insulin circulates in proportion to fat mass, and alters neuropeptide expression in the hypothalamus via receptors located in the ARC, PVH, and DMH ( 137 ). ICV insulin has been reported to decrease food intake in rats and mice. Furthermore, mice deleted for insulin receptor ( Insr ) throughout the CNS display a modest late-onset obesity (more prominent in females), and are more susceptible to diet-induced obesity than wild-type mice ( 138 ). In addition, insulin acts centrally to decrease hepatic glucose output, in part via the inhibition of AgRP neurons ( 139 , 140 ). The insulin receptor (INSR), a tyrosine kinase, recruits and tyrosine phosphorylates insulin receptor substrates (IRS proteins; IRS-1, -2, -3, -4) which engage downstream signals, including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) pathway. Deletion of Irs1 interferes primarily with peripheral insulin action and the growth axis, Irs3 is rodent-specific and adipocyte-restricted, and the deletion of Irs4 minimally alters energy balance ( 141 ). In contrast, deletion of Irs2 causes insulin-deficient diabetes (due to islet failure) and obesity. Restoration of Irs2 in the islets of Irs2- null mice or brain-specific ablation of Irs2 results in normoglycemic obesity, consistent with a role for brain IRS2 signaling in energy balance ( 142 ). While leptin modulates the IRS-protein/PI3-kinase pathway and the deletion of Irs2 from LepRb-expressing neurons promotes obesity (albeit a milder form of obesity than observed in animals deleted for Irs2 throughout the brain), deletion of Irs2 does not interfere with leptin action, suggesting that IRS2 may primarily play a role in brain insulin action ( 143 ). A variety of subunits and downstream effectors of the PI3-kinase signaling pathway have also been deleted in several neuronal populations in mice ( 144 ). These produce phenotypes generally consistent with the notion that PI3-kinase is important for the proper function of the POMC and AgRP neurons that modulate energy balance- at least in part by controlling the firing of
