Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


neurons, promotes obesity ( 130 ) ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Signaling by and inhibition of LepRb and InsR. LepRb, which exists as a preformed homodimer in complex with the Jak2 tyrosine kinase, recruits and phosphorylates (pY) STAT3 via phosphorylated pY 1138 to control many aspects of energy balance. InsR, which also exists as a preformed dimer, but has intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity, autophosphorylates the juxtamembrane Tyr 960 to recruit the insulin receptor substrate (IRS) proteins IRS1-IRS4. IRS-proteins strongly activate the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), which play roles in the brain control of energy balance and glucose homeostasis. Leptin also activates PI3K, albeit much more weakly than InsR, and by undefined mechansims. Both LepRb and InsR activate the ERK pathway. The adapter protein, SH2B1 also enhances signaling by both receptors. In addition to decreasing food intake and increasing energy expenditure, LepRb-mediated STAT3 signaling promotes the expression of SOCS3, which acts as a feedback inhibitor of LepRb and InsR signaling. A variety of tyrosine phosphatases also inhibit the activity of both receptors. SH2B1 binds to activated Jak2, as well as to INSR, TrkB, and a few other receptor tyrosine kinase complexes to increase their activity and mediate aspects of downstream signaling ( 154 ). Sh2b1 -null mice display a complex phenotype that includes obesity; brain-specific absence of Sh2b1 also promotes obesity in mice ( 155 , 156 ). Thus, SH2B1 signaling in the brain is required for energy balance, perhaps due to its requirement for correct signaling by multiple receptors involved in energy homeostasis. Furthermore, the phenotype of several human patients with morbid obesity, developmental delay, and behavioral disorders are associated with chromosomal deletions (16p11.2) or coding variants involving SH2B1 ( 157 ). Indeed, GWAS studies have suggested a role for common variants in SH2B1 in human obesity ( 59 ). While the deletion of Sh2b1 from LepRb neurons in mice promotes obesity, this effect may be independent of leptin action ( 158 ), suggesting that SH2B1 impacts energy balance via its actions on other growth factor receptors. Potential Roles for Other Adipokines and Anorexigenic Signals Several lines of evidence suggest the existence of peripherally-derived anorexigenic signals in addition to leptin and insulin. First, because continuous administration of high levels of exogenous leptin in wild-type animals only slightly and transiently decreases feeding, while wild-type animals starve themselves to death during parabiosis to Lepr db/db animals ( 13 , 108 , 113
