Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


exogenous leptin in wild-type animals only slightly and transiently decreases feeding, while wild-type animals starve themselves to death during parabiosis to Lepr db/db animals ( 13 , 108 , 113 , 159 ) , , there likely exists an additional hormonal signal that suppresses food intake (albeit one that requires leptin for its action). Additionally, the forced overfeeding of animals results in multi-day anorexia even in the absence of increased leptin concentrations ( 160 ). Although it is not clear that this second anorectic signal derives from adipose tissue, fat produces many signaling molecules in addition to leptin, some of which, like leptin, are cytokines (adipose-derived cytokines, or “adipokines”). While the adipokines adiponectin and resistin can alter feeding when injected into the brain ( 161 , 162 ), neither can suppress food intake to the extent observed in parabiosed or overfed animals. Thus, additional anorexigenic signals remain to be discovered. The Orexigenic Ghrelin System The diurnal release of ghrelin, which derives from the stomach, coincides with the initiation of meals and decreases over the course of each meal ( 163 ). Acutely administered ghrelin causes animals and humans to consume larger meals than normal, while chronic ghrelin administration results in obesity in rodents ( 164 – 167 ). As would be expected, most obese humans have low levels of circulating ghrelin, whereas levels are elevated in patients with anorexia nervosa ( 168 ). The growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR) serves as the receptor for the acylated (active) form of ghrelin (which is acylated (octanoylated) by ghrelin O-acyl transferase (GOAT) in the cells that synthesize it) ( 169 ). Ingested fatty acids are required for ghrelin acylation, so that active ghrelin only increases prior to meals in animals that have fed over the prior 24 hours. ARC AgRP neurons express high levels of GHSR, and ghrelin activates these cells. Indeed, ghrelin action on AgRP neurons mediates the majority of the anorectic response to ghrelin ( 170 , 171 ). Consistent with the modest baseline phenotypes of mice null for the individual neurotransmitters employed by AgRP/NPY neurons, mice null for ghrelin, GHSR, or GOAT beginning early in embryogenesis exhibit no detectable alterations in baseline energy balance, and only modest defects in refeeding ( 172 ), presumably due to compensatory processes that alter the function of AgRP neurons during development. Apart from its actions on neurons in the ARC, ghrelin administration into other
