Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


( 172 ), presumably due to compensatory processes that alter the function of AgRP neurons during development. Apart from its actions on neurons in the ARC, ghrelin administration into other areas of the brain (i.e. PVN, LHA, ventral tegmental area (VTA), dorsal vagal complex) can also stimulate positive energy balance ( 173 – 176 ). THE HINDBRAIN CONTROL OF FEEDING Most consider the hypothalamus to play a dominant role in the long-term control of food intake. Indeed, leptin, the hormonal signal of long-term energy stores, mediates its largest effects on food intake and energy balance via the hypothalamus ( 122 , 177 ). In contrast, hindbrain circuits respond robustly to signals of gut status (including stretch, nutrients, and toxins/irritants) to control meal termination and thus meal size. Humoral signals from the gut act on the hindbrain area postrema (AP), which lies outside the blood-brain barrier at the base of the fourth ventricle in the caudal medulla. Other gut signals are conveyed to the hindbrain via afferent vagal fibers (whose soma lie in the nodose ganglion) ( Figure 4 ). These signals converge on the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and promote meal termination ( 178 , 179 ). Interference with components of this system (e.g., vagotomy) increases meal size, although compensatory changes in meal frequency (presumably directed by the hypothalamus) often dictate that food intake and energy balance remain constant over the long-term ( 180 ). Outputs from the AP and NTS include the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV), which sends parasympathetic signals to the gut to alter motility. Projections to more rostral regions, including the PBN and hypothalamic sites (including the PVH and DMH) also play roles in the suppression of food intake. Figure 4. Emerging circuitry of gut-brain pathways that control food intake. A variety of signals converge on the hindbrain to suppress food intake. This includes a variety of gut peptides and the stress/inflammation signal, GDF15, as well as vagal sensory neurons whose soma reside in the nodose ganglion. Stretch-sensing vagal afferents that express GLP1R and/or OXTR suppress feeding via the NTS (although their particular cell targets in the NTS remain to be defined). In contrast, nutrient-sensing vagal neurons (including those that express GPR65, VIP, and/or SST) do not appear to control feeding; their precise function remains undefined. Many populations of AP/NTS neurons promote the aversive suppression of food intake by projecting onto CGRP-expressing cells of
