Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


SST) do not appear to control feeding; their precise function remains undefined. Many populations of AP/NTS neurons promote the aversive suppression of food intake by projecting onto CGRP-expressing cells of the PBN. Other neurons of the NTS (including those that express CALCR and LepRb) suppress food intake without promoting aversive effects, at least in part by activating a poorly-defined set of non-CGRP neurons in the PBN. A number of observations suggest potential roles for hindbrain centers in the control of long-term energy balance, however, including the expression of LepRb and GHSR in the AP and NTS ( 83 , 84 , 181 – 184 ). Indeed, leptin modulates the physiology of hindbrain neurons and knockdown of NTS LepRb expression modestly increases food intake and body weight, especially in high fat diet (HFD)-fed rats ( 181 , 185 – 189 ). Furthermore, ablation of prolactin releasing hormone (PRLH, a.k.a., PRRP) increases feeding and body weight, and the NTS-specific re-expression of PRLH on a Prlh -null background restores normal feeding and energy balance ( 190 ). More recently, the silencing of several NTS cell types has been shown to increase food intake and cause obesity. Thus, the normal function of NTS systems contributes to the long-term control of energy balance. Furthermore, many appetite-suppressing medications (including agonists for gut peptide receptors) mediate their effects by activating hindbrain systems ( 191 – 194 ). The Nodose Ganglion and Vagal Sensory Neurons Gut-innervating vagal sensory neurons in the nodose ganglion consist of mechanosensory cells that increase activity in relation to increasing gastric volume and distinct chemosensory neurons that respond to the chemical characteristics of nutrients in the gut. Both mechanosensing and chemosensing vagal neurons innervate the entire gastrointestinal tract ( 195 , 196 ). Recent studies have interrogated the vagal sensory neurons of the nodose ganglion, revealing markers for gut-innervating mechanosensory cells (which sense stretch and pressure; these cells express the receptors for GLP1 (GLP1R) and OXT (OXTR)) and for chemosensory neurons (which sense nutrients in the gut; these cells express GPR65, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), and somatostatin (SST)) ( 197 , 199 ). Interestingly, the activation of mechanosensory cells suppresses feeding, while chemosensory cell activation does not. Thus, the mechanosensory and chemosensory vagal cells must innervate distinct downstream CNS targets, at least in part. The appetite-suppressing functions of several hormones and neuropeptides (including gut-derived cholecystokinin (CCK)) may result from their actions on vagal neurons
