Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


must innervate distinct downstream CNS targets, at least in part. The appetite-suppressing functions of several hormones and neuropeptides (including gut-derived cholecystokinin (CCK)) may result from their actions on vagal neurons ( 200 , 201 ). While CNS OXT neurons (in the PVH) do not appear to participate the in the control of feeding, the response of vagal mechanosensory neurons to exogenous OXTR agonists might mediate the appetite-suppressing effects of these agents ( 202 ). Role for the Area Postrema in Nausea and Aversive Responses Because AP capillaries lack tight junctions, the AP lies outside the blood-brain barrier and directly senses circulating nutrients and hormones. While the molecular characterization of AP neurons remains in its infancy, the AP contains a variety of receptors (GLP1R, GFRAL, and CALCR) that respond to appetite-suppressing hormones ( 203 – 206 ). Notably, ligands for each of these receptors promote aversive responses (e.g., nausea), for which the AP is well-known ( 207 – 209 ). Indeed, the action of autoantibodies directed to aquaporin-4 (AQP4, which is expressed around the AP) during neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders results in AP syndrome- characterized by unremitting nausea and vomiting (and sometimes hiccups) ( 210 – 212 ). Neurons from the AP project into the brain, including to the NTS, DMV, and PBN. The Nucleus Tractus Solitarius and Parabrachial Nucleus The NTS, which lies adjacent to the AP, receives gastrointestinal input from vagal sensory neurons and from the AP. The NTS also receives taste information via the geniculate ganglion ( 213 ), although the NTS systems that integrate taste signals with information from the gut have yet to be defined. NTS neurons also express a variety of receptors that contribute to the control of food intake (e.g., LepRb and CALCR), and thus presumably sense a variety of circulating appetite-regulating signals. Furthermore, NTS LepRb and CALCR neurons contribute to the physiologic control of food intake ( 185 , 214 , 215 ). Interestingly, while at least some AP and NTS neurons mediate the aversive suppression of food intake (i.e., cause nausea and/or vomiting, as well as decreasing appetite), the NTS LepRb and CALCR neurons suppress food intake without promoting such aversive responses ( 214 , 215 ). Thus, distinct NTS systems mediate the aversive and non-aversive suppression of food intake. Indeed, it makes teleological sense that the consumption of nutrients should promote reward (to encourage the subsequent ingestion of a particular food
