Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


the aversive and non-aversive suppression of food intake. Indeed, it makes teleological sense that the consumption of nutrients should promote reward (to encourage the subsequent ingestion of a particular food type), rather than terminating ingestion in an aversive manner and discouraging the future consumption of the food. Consistently, the activation of certain vagal pathways can promote a rewarding response, even while suppressing feeding ( 198 , 199 ). Many AP/NTS neurons that mediate the aversive suppression of food intake directly innervate calcitonin gene-related protein (CGRP)-expressing PBN neurons. Indeed, PBN CGRP neurons mediate the aversive responses to a variety of agents associated with gut irritation, including some chemotherapy drugs ( 216 ). PBN CGRP cells also appear to participate in the emotional response to a variety of fear-inducing stimuli ( 217 ). The activation of PBN CGRP cells suppresses food intake under a variety of conditions; indeed, the withdrawal of inhibitory tone from these cells mediates the lethal anorexia associated with the ablation of ARC AgRP neurons ( 65 ). Interestingly, however, the inactivation of PBN CGRP cells minimally impacts food intake and does not alter energy balance ( 218 ); thus other neural systems must mediate the long-term control of feeding and energy balance by brainstem systems. Hence, the systems that mediate the aversive suppression of food intake may suppress long-term feeding less effectively than non-aversive systems, at least under normal physiologic conditions. The PBN must also contain non-aversive systems for the suppression of food intake, since neither NTS CALCR cells nor PVH MC4R neurons innervate PBN CGRP cells (but rather innervate a distinct region of the PBN) and both promote the non-aversive suppression of food intake via the PBN ( 214 ). Gastrointestinal Hormones that Modulate Feeding CHOLECYSTOKININ Secreted from neuroendocrine secretory cells (L-cells) lining the intestinal lumen in response to nutrients, cholecystokinin (CCK) represents the canonical gut-derived satiety signal. It is an acutely acting signal with a very short half-life ( 219 ). Early studies showed that exogenous CCK administered just prior to a meal reduces food intake in rats. In the last thirty years these results have been repeated and extended in numerous labs, demonstrating that the anorectic effects of CCK can be translated to virtually all species, including humans ( 220 – 222 ). CCK induces a transitory sensation of satiety, secretion of pancreatic enzymes and gallbladder contraction. CCK-A receptors are located on vagal afferents of
