Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


species, including humans ( 220 – 222 ). CCK induces a transitory sensation of satiety, secretion of pancreatic enzymes and gallbladder contraction. CCK-A receptors are located on vagal afferents of the stomach and the liver and transduce signals via the vagal nerve to satiety centers in the brainstem, eliciting a brief reduction in food intake (for a review, see(Bray 2000) ( 223 )). While CCK decreases meal size and duration, compensatory increases in meal frequency prevent CCK from producing long term effects on total food intake or body weight. Indeed, deletion of Cckar in mice does not cause obesity ( 224 ). THE INCRETINS Glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) functions as an incretin (enhancer of insulin secretion) ( 225 ). GLP-1 can also modulate satiety: ICV GLP-1 (or GLP1R agonists) potently suppresses food intake in rats and mice, while the GLP1R antagonist, exendin ( 9 - 37 ), increases short-term food intake. Body weight and food intake are unaffected by ablation of GLP-1R, however, suggesting that (like CCK and CCKAR) this system primarily modulates short-term satiation, rather than long-term energy balance, under normal physiologic circumstances ( 226 ). Despite this lack of a physiological role for GLP-1 or GLP-1R in the long-term control of food intake, chronic treatment with GLP-1R agonists serves to suppress food intake and promote weight loss ( 227 ). The suppression of food intake by GLP-1R agonist pharmacotherapy requires GLP-1R expression on glutamatergic neurons of the CNS ( 194 ). Furthermore, caudal brainstem processing suffices to suppress food intake and gastric emptying by peripherally applied GLP-1R agonists ( 228 ). Thus, the crucial GLP-1R-expressing neurons that mediate the anorectic effects of GLP-1R agonist pharmacotherapy may reside in the AP and/or NTS. Given that brain GLP-1R mediates the appetite-suppressing effects of exogenous GLP-1R agonists and that the NTS GLP-1 neurons represent the sole source of GLP-1 in the CNS ( 229 ), these NTS GLP-1 cells have been the subject of a great deal of interest. Interestingly, however, while NTS GLP-1 cells represent a subset of the NTS LepRb cells that contribute to the control of feeding, the ablation of NTS GLP-1 fails to alter energy balance or the ability of NTS LepRb neurons to suppress feeding ( 215 ). Consistently, extending the half-life of endogenous GLP-1 by inhibiting dipeptidylpetidase-4 (DPP4) fails to alter food intake, although it amplifies the incretin effect of endogenous GLP-1. Thus, neither endogenous
