Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


215 ). Consistently, extending the half-life of endogenous GLP-1 by inhibiting dipeptidylpetidase-4 (DPP4) fails to alter food intake, although it amplifies the incretin effect of endogenous GLP-1. Thus, neither endogenous NTS GLP-1 nor its CNS targets contribute meaningfully to the suppression of food intake, despite the prominent pharmacologic effects of GLP-1R agonists on these parameters. Intestinal glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP, formerly gastric inhibitory polypeptide) is secreted from K-cells in the duodenum and proximal jejunum in response to food intake ( 230 , 231 ) and acts as an incretin, increasing glucose-dependent insulin release from pancreatic β-cells and contributing to postprandial plasma glucose normalization. The incretin function of GIP may be mediated either directly via pancreatic GIP receptor (GIPR) activation ( 232 ) or via the activation of non-ganglionic cholinergic neurons that innervate the islets, presumably as part of an enteric-neuronal-pancreatic pathway ( 233 ). The impact of GIP on central appetite regulation is controversial, however ( 234 , 235 ). Indeed, while the combination of GIPR and GLP1R agonism in a single peptide appears to enhance weight loss over a GLP1R agonist alone, GIPR ligands poorly modulate food intake on their own. Furthermore, there remains some debate about whether GIPR antagonism (rather than agonism) accentuates the effects of GLP1R agonists on food intake ( 236 ). GROWTH DIFFERENTION FACTOR-15 While not a gut-derived peptide, growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) acts via the brainstem to modulate nutrient intake. GDF15 is secreted by a large number of tissues in response to cellular stressors. Circulating concentrations of GDF15 express increase in disease states, such as prostate cancer, infection, and cardiovascular disease, and this has been associated with anorexia and cancer cachexia ( 237 ). Furthermore, a variety of clinical and genetic data suggest roles for high circulating levels of GDF15 in the nausea and vomiting associated with hyperemesis gravidarum during the second trimester of pregnancy ( 238 , 239 ). Mice with transgenic over-expression of GDF15 are leaner and are protected from diet induced obesity, and the injection of GDF15 causes hypophagia and weight loss in rodents ( 240 , 241 ). Unlike GDF15, which has broad tissue expression, expression of the receptor for GDF15 (GFRAL) is restricted to the AP and NTS in adults. Intact signaling through the hindbrain is required for GDF15-mediated weight loss, as ablation of the AP and NTS or deletion of GFRAL abolishes hypophagia and weight loss in
