Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


in adults. Intact signaling through the hindbrain is required for GDF15-mediated weight loss, as ablation of the AP and NTS or deletion of GFRAL abolishes hypophagia and weight loss in GDF15-treated mice ( 205 , 242 , 243 ). While GDF15 produces a strong conditioned taste aversion, the downstream neural circuits by which GDF15/GFRAL activation modulates feeding behavior have yet to be elucidated. While GFRAL-null mice are protected from weight loss in response to infections, tumors, and chemotherapy, they display little (if any) alteration in body weight under normal physiologic conditions ( 204 ). Thus, GDF15 appears to link strong physiologic stressors (e.g., infection, pregnancy, cancer, and cardiovascular dysfunction) to the aversive suppression of food intake, rather than contributing to the normal control of food intake and energy balance. PEPTIDE YY Peptide YY (PYY), which is released from the L cells of the distal digestive tract, belongs to the pancreatic polypeptide family (including pancreatic polypeptide (PP) and NPY) and has been proposed to serve as a satiety signal ( 244 – 246 ). The circulation contains two forms of the peptide: PYY1-36 and PYY3-36; the latter represents the main circulating form of PYY in postprandial human plasma and is able to cross the blood-brain-barrier by non-saturable mechanisms ( 247 , 248 ). Both forms of PYY bind to the Y2 isoform of the NPY receptor (NPY2R) ( 249 ). While the reported effects of PYY3-36 on food intake in rodents and humans initially generated some controversy ( 250 ), recent studies support the notion that NPY2R agonists can promote a strongly aversive suppression of food intake in many species ( 251 , 252 ). The role for endogenous PYY in food intake remains unclear, however, and although the AP/NTS represent presumptive sites that mediate the suppression of food intake by NPY2R agonists, this has yet to be definitively established. [ Please refer to ENDOTEXT chapter Endocrinology of the Gut and the Regulation of Body Weight and Metabolism by Andrea Pucci and Rachel L Batterham for additional information] AMYLIN Pancreatic β-cells co-secrete the peptide, amylin, with insulin during meals. Amylin inhibits gastric emptying and systemic and central administration causes a dose-dependent reduction of meal size ( 253 – 256 ). Amylin binds to the amylin receptor- CALCR in complex with a receptor activity modifying protein (RAMP) ( 257 ). The amylin-responsive neurons of the AP/NTS have yet to be definitively identified,
