Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


binds to the amylin receptor- CALCR in complex with a receptor activity modifying protein (RAMP) ( 257 ). The amylin-responsive neurons of the AP/NTS have yet to be definitively identified, but may lie in the AP and/or NTS. Interestingly, combination treatment with amylin plus leptin elicits a greater inhibition of food intake and body weight loss in obese rats than predicted by the sum of monotherapy conditions. Peripheral administration of amylin restores leptin sensitivity in rats, crucial in the treatment of leptin resistance in obesity ( 258 ), suggesting the potential therapeutic utility of combining hindbrain- and hypothalamus-acting compounds. Interactions Between Forebrain and Brainstem Systems that Control Food Intake Communication between the systems that sense the gut and those that sense energy stores is crucial to control satiety appropriately for feeding state and physiologic requirements. Thus, the forebrain and hindbrain must communicate to appropriately control feeding. Indeed, hypothalamic systems impact brainstem feeding circuits: AgRP neurons tonically inhibit PBN CGRP cells, while PVH projections to distinct (non-CGRP) PBN cells suppress feeding ( 61 , 65 , 70 , 71 ). Similarly, the ingestion of nutrients activates a gut-vagus-NTS pathway that inhibits the activity of AgRP neurons ( 199 ), and projections from the NTS to the PVH can blunt food intake ( 259 ). A great deal more research in this area will be required to fully understand the integration of these circuits, however. OTHER SIGNALS THAT MAY MODULATE FOOD INTAKE Nutrient Signaling While their effects are not as strong as those of many hormones or neural circuits, all three groups of nutrients (carbohydrates, lipids, and proteins) have been implicated in the control of feeding. Mayer proposed the “glucostatic hypothesis” in the 1950s, suggesting that decreases in glucose utilization stimulated eating and increases in glucose utilization halted eating ( 260 , 261 ). Indeed, intrahypothalamic glucose administration decreases food intake and inhibits hepatic glucose production ( 262 ). The response to decreased glucose or the blockade of glycolysis, which increases food intake and hepatic glucose production, is much stronger than the response to increased glucose, however. Furthermore, most glucose-sensing neurons are modulated within the normal to low range of glucose concentrations, rather than by elevated glucose. Also, the sensor of cellular energy deficits, AMPK, has also been proposed to play a role in CNS glucose sensing ( 263 , 264 ), but this cellular pathway is likely to be engaged mainly
