Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


energy deficits, AMPK, has also been proposed to play a role in CNS glucose sensing ( 263 , 264 ), but this cellular pathway is likely to be engaged mainly by severe energy deficits in the CNS. Hence, the brain glucose- and energy-sensing systems may be mainly involved in defending against large swings in blood glucose (e.g., defending against hypoglycemia) rather than serving as a primary controller of food intake and energy balance. While the hypothalamic sensing of long-chain fatty acids has also been suggested to suppress food intake in response to increased availability of fatty acids in states of nutrient surfeit ( 265 , 266 ), the physiologic relevance of such a system remains unclear. The uptake of esterified lipids into the CNS is modest and circulating fatty acids actually increase during fasting. The systems that import fatty acyl-CoAs into mitochondria and the control of overall mitochondrial function in hypothalamic cells that control food intake and metabolism represent important determinants of energy balance, however. Low protein diets dramatically increase food intake, and the peripheral or intra-CNS infusion of amino acids (especially the branched-chain amino acid leucine) robustly decreases food intake ( 267 , 268 ). While the neural pathways underlying these effects have yet to be completely elucidated, brainstem systems likely contribute, at least in part. Additionally, the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR)-mediated cellular amino acid sensing system is required for the operation of the CNS systems that mediate protein appetite ( 269 ). In addition to its role in neurotransmission, glutamate acts on its receptor in the GI tract both mediate taste-sensation and to serve as a gut-derived signal to also the vagal input to the CNS ( 270 ). In one study, intra-luminal glutamate infusion resulted in reduced body weight without altering food intake ( 271 ). Inflammation Inflammatory signals are proposed to mediate several distinct metabolic responses. Strong acute inflammatory stimuli (including those associated with systemic infection, cancer, etc.) decrease appetite and increase energy expenditure, promoting cachexia (GDF15 may mediate a portion of this effect). Conversely, obesity is associated with increased low-grade inflammation that appears limited to particular tissues, such as adipose tissue ( 272 ). This low-grade “metabolic inflammation” is associated with insulin resistance and obesity. A variety of animal models have been employed to explore the interaction of inflammatory signals and energy balance/metabolism. SYSTEMIC INFLAMMATION Systemic immune signaling promotes negative energy balance. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
