Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


obesity. A variety of animal models have been employed to explore the interaction of inflammatory signals and energy balance/metabolism. SYSTEMIC INFLAMMATION Systemic immune signaling promotes negative energy balance. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration, which produces some of the metabolic consequences of bacterial infection, blunts appetite; the mechanism of this hypophagia overlaps with the systems that control energy balance, as the LPS-induced anorexia requires the melanocortin system ( 273 ). Consistent with the induction of negative energy balance by systemic inflammation, alterations that blunt inflammation generally blunt inflammatory anorexia. While not altering baseline energy balance in chow-fed animals, deletion of IL-1b converting enzyme (ICE, which is essential for IL-1b activity), prevents LPS-induced anorexia in mice ( 274 ). GDF15, acting via AP GFRAL neurons, may also contribute to the LPS-mediated suppression of food intake. The inflammatory system may also contribute to the control of energy balance under normal physiology, as well: adiposity is increased in Il6 null and Gmcsf null mice, and in mice with impaired macrophage function due to the targeted deletion of Mac-1 or LFA-1 (or their receptor, ICAM-1)( 275 ). Conversely, mice with constitutively increased IL-1 receptor signaling induced by targeted deletion of the endogenous IL-1 receptor antagonist, Il1ra , display reduced body mass compared to wild-type littermates ( 276 ). METABOLIC INFLAMMATION Obesity is associated with increased production of a number of cytokines (including TNF alpha) in adipose tissue, resulting primarily from the activation of adipose tissue macrophages and other immune cells ( 275 , 279 ). Manipulations that decrease adipose tissue inflammation ameliorate the metabolic dysfunction associated with obesity. While interference with generalized macrophage function may increase adiposity, interventions that alter their pro-inflammatory (versus anti-inflammatory) nature increase leanness and improve metabolic function ( 280 , 281 ). Some data also suggest that inflammation-associated hypothalamic processes may contribute to obesity. High fat feeding results in the activation of hypothalamic microglia (the resident immune cells of the brain) and astrocytes ( 282 , 283 ). Some have postulated that these activated microglia secrete proinflammatory cytokines to disrupt the control of food intake, promoting obesity. Debate continues regarding whether this gliosis provokes or attenuates obesity, however. The ER stress in adipose tissue and the hypothalamus, potentially a consequence of metabolic inflammation, has also been reported in obesity ( 284 ). Genetic or pharmacologic interference with ER stress ameliorates obesity and insulin resistance in rodent models. ENERGY BALANCE AND MOTIVATION The homeostatic
