Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


has also been reported in obesity ( 284 ). Genetic or pharmacologic interference with ER stress ameliorates obesity and insulin resistance in rodent models. ENERGY BALANCE AND MOTIVATION The homeostatic regulation of energy balance powerfully defends against body weight excursions below the lower limits of adiposity ( 9 ), and but often fails to prevent weight gain in our world of abundance of highly palatable, high energy foods. Non-metabolic factors that contribute to overeating and obesity include food palatability, availability, sensory-specific satiety, energy density of food, consumption rate, stress, social environment and energy output/exercise ( 285 , 286 ). Palatability and pleasantness of food represent powerful determinants in regulating motivation to eat. Reward Circuitry and Neurotransmitters DOPAMINE AND THE BRAIN REWARD SYSTEM The neural circuits that comprise the reward pathways encompass wide-ranging brain regions, including the hypothalamus, the nucleus acumbens in the basal forebrain, the midbrain ventral tegmental area (VTA), the amygdala and the thalamus ( 274 ). The LHA connects the hypothalamus to the broader reward system through projections to the VTA, where dopaminergic cell bodies lie. From there, the mesolimbic pathways (dopaminergic projections between the VTA and the nucleus acumbens) mediate reward-based feeding ( 287 – 289 ). Dopamine (DA) potently augments the drive to obtain a rewarding stimulus and is required to drive feeding behavior. DA-deficient mice nurse normally until 2 weeks of age, but thereafter fail to thrive due an inability to wean themselves onto solid food unless supplemented with the DA precursor, L-DOPA, suggesting that DA is required for normal ingestive behavior (as well as activity) ( 290 ). While the specific mechanisms through which dopaminergic signaling regulates motivated feeding behavior are not yet clear, connections between the LHA and the mesolimbic system as well as integration with the leptin and melanocortin systems appear to contribute. SEROTONIN RECEPTOR 2c Serotonin (5-hydroxytrypamine, 5-HT), which derives from stress-modulated neurons in the midbrain raphe nuclei, acts via 5-HT receptor 2c (HTR2c) to decrease food intake and body weight, and deletion of Htr2c produces hyperphagic obesity that is accentuated by high fat diet. Within the hypothalamus, ARC, PVN, LHA, and anterior hypothalamic nucleus (AH) neurons contain Htr2c ( 291 ). A subset of ARC POMC neurons express Htr2c , and the Pomc cre -mediated reactivation of a null Htr2c allele in these cells attenuates the food intake and obesity in the Htr2c null mice ( 292 , 293 ).
