Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


and the Pomc cre -mediated reactivation of a null Htr2c allele in these cells attenuates the food intake and obesity in the Htr2c null mice ( 292 , 293 ). Htr2c cells in the midbrain VTA and in the hindbrain NTS may also contribute to the control of feeding by HTR2c. The effect of HTR2c activation may vary by brain region, but, in aggregate, Htr2c mutant mice confirm the important role for this receptor in energy balance. HTR2c agonists promote weight loss, and several have been approved for the treatment of obesity. ENERGY EXPENDITURE AS A DETERMINANT OF ADIPOSITY With few exceptions, most of the systems that dramatically alter energy balance act primarily via the control of feeding; isolated alterations in energy expenditure promote more modest changes in energy balance because increases in energy expenditure and negative energy balance promote a compensatory increase in feeding. Similarly, decreased energy expenditure will cause the accumulation of adipose mass, which tends to restrain feeding. For instance, interference with normal VMH function (discussed above) decreases diet-induced energy expenditure and promotes increased adiposity only when animals are provided high caloric density diets ( 91 , 92 ). The tendency for energy intake to match changes in energy expenditure is exemplified by several animal models in which alterations in energy expenditure do not lead to large changes in adiposity. Uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1, which is found primarily in brown and beige adipose tissue (BAT)) allows dissipation of the electrochemical gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane, releasing energy as heat ( 294 ). Ablation of BAT in mice expressing diphtheria toxin A driven from the UCP1 promoter or congenital deletion of Ucp1 fails to alter adiposity at thermoneutrality, although adiposity increases slightly relative to controls in animals raised at temperatures colder than thermoneutrality, since these animals fail to substantially increase energy expenditure in response to the cold challenge ( 295 ). Similarly, the phenotype of mice null for the beta-adrenergic receptor beta 3-AR is not as severe as predicted: fat mass in male mice is only slightly increased, even in animals consuming a high-energy diet under non-thermoneutral conditions ( 296 ). Also, “beta-less” mice, with a global targeted deletion of all three beta-adrenergic receptor isoforms, have only slightly increased body fat on high fat diet under non-thermoneutral conditions ( 296 ). [ Please refer to ENDOTEXT chapter titled The Role of Non-exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Obesity
