Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


slightly increased body fat on high fat diet under non-thermoneutral conditions ( 296 ). [ Please refer to ENDOTEXT chapter titled The Role of Non-exercise Activity Thermogenesis in Human Obesity by Christian von Loeffelholz.and Andreas Birkenfeld and Control of Energy Expenditure in Humans by Klaas R Westerterp, for additional complementary information on energy expenditure] LESSONS FROM HUMAN OBESITY SYNDROMES While much of our understanding of the genetics and signaling pathways involved in the central control of energy balance and development of obesity has been derived from rodent models, there exist rare cases of human obesity syndromes due to genetic mutations that shed light on the pathogenesis of obesity development. Many of these mutations corroborate the evidence from animal studies. In addition, with the advent of next generation sequencing and the ability to delve deeply into the human genome, genome wide association studies (GWAS) have also begun to reveal gene variants that may contribute or predispose to obesity. Monogenic Obesity Syndromes MC4R Approximately 4% of morbid human obesity (BMI > 40 kg/m2) results from mutations in MC4R ( 297 – 299 ). Preserved lean mass and increased stature are also evident in humans with MC4R deficiency syndrome, as in rodent models ( 57 ). Most obesity associated with MC4R mutations has been attributed to heterozygosity at the MC4R locus ( 58 ). Patients who are homozygous for a null MC4R mutation develop severe childhood obesity ( 57 ), while heterozygous family members are overweight. This suggests a codominant inheritance pattern in which the gene product of these mutations impair the function of the normal gene product. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have revealed common non-coding polymorphisms within the MC4R locus that are associated with increased adiposity ( 59 ). Treatment options for patients with MC4R mutations remain limited, although recent studies have suggested that the newly developed MC4R agonist setmelanotide can produce modest weight loss in patients with MC4R variants that encode receptor with decreased (rather than absent) function, as well as those with POMC mutations ( 300 , 301 ). LEPTIN DEFICIENCY INCLUDING LIPODYSTROPHY Genetic leptin deficiency in humans is very rare, but (as in rodents) elicits a severe obesity phenotype: A rare, recessively inherited LEP mutation was discovered in two children who are members of a highly consanguineous Pakistani family ( 302 ). This frameshift mutation introduces a premature stop codon that truncates the leptin protein. While rare, additional leptin-deficient
