Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


children who are members of a highly consanguineous Pakistani family ( 302 ). This frameshift mutation introduces a premature stop codon that truncates the leptin protein. While rare, additional leptin-deficient individuals (all of whom are severely obese) have been identified. Daily subcutaneous administration of recombinant leptin dramatically and selectively reduces body fat to normal levels in these individuals ( 303 ). A few humans homozygous for leptin receptor mutations have also been identified; these individuals present a severe obese phenotype similar to those lacking leptin, although – as anticipated - they are not responsive to exogenous leptin ( 304 ). It is important to note that mice ( 305 ) and humans ( 306 ) heterozygous for null mutations of either LEPR or LEP are more obese than controls. It is thus possible that individuals heterozygous for functionally null mutations of these and other genes encoding molecular components of the various signaling pathways regulating energy homeostasis discussed in this review constitute a significant proportion of the very obese. Additionally, heterozygosity for several of these mutations would be expected to produce even greater levels of obesity. The increasing use of exome sequencing in evaluating instances of severe obesity will lead to the detection of more instances of obesity caused by such oligogenic mechanisms. Lipodystrophy represents another clinical syndrome associated with leptin deficiency. Lipodystrophy encompasses a heterogenous group of disorders that range from inherited monogenic gene disruptions to acquired disorders due to treatment with medications such as highly active retroviral therapy for HIV. In generalized lipodystrophy, patients develop loss of subcutaneous fat tissue which results in leptin deficiency, hyperphagia, severe insulin resistance and diabetes, and visceral obesity. When leptin deficiency can be demonstrated, treatment with recombinant leptin significantly improves hyperphagia, body weight and diabetes severity ( 307 ). CILIOPATHIES A subset of mutations causing defects in primary cilia promote obesity syndromes ( 308 , 309 ). The primary cilium is found on most cells; while structurally related to motile cilia (such as flagella), the primary cilium is immotile and does not participate in propulsion. The primary cilium plays a crucial sensory role in cells, including cell-specific sensing, such as olfaction in sensory epithelium, photoreception in retinal cells, mechanical transduction in kidney cells, and signaling via a variety of cell surface receptors, including many GPCRs. A broad group of disease-causing human mutations are now known to result from mutations in genes affecting ciliary
