Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


and signaling via a variety of cell surface receptors, including many GPCRs. A broad group of disease-causing human mutations are now known to result from mutations in genes affecting ciliary functions (the “ciliopathies”). The clinical presentation of these diseases variably includes anosmia, retinal degeneration, kidney malformations, and a variety of developmental and neural defects, many of which are idiosyncratic to the particular gene that is mutated. A number of these mutations produce obesity in addition to the other phenotypes noted above, both in mice and humans. Included in these obesity-causing ciliopathies are Bardet-Biedel Syndrome (BBS), McKusic-Kaufman Syndrome, Alström Syndrome, and Joubert Syndrome. Altered trafficking of MC4R and/or MCH receptor may play roles in the obesity of those with ciliopathies. POMC AND PROHORMONE CONVERTASE 1 DEFICIENCIES Mutations resulting in complete absence of the POMC gene product cause secondary adrenal insufficiency due to lack of ACTH; however, once glucocorticoid replacement therapy is started, children with these mutations invariably develop obesity due to hyperphagia. In patients of Caucasian ancestry, there is also a characteristic phenotype of red hair and pale skin, although this is not found in patients from other genetic backgrounds. Some POMC mutations affect specific melanocortin peptide products, and those that specifically alter α-MSH result in severe early-onset obesity ( 39 , 40 ). The prohormone POMC is cleaved by prohormone convertase 1 (PC1). Human PC1 deficiency caused by missense and splice site mutations in the PC1 gene also results in a disorder characterized by obesity and hypocortisolemia as well as hypogonadism ( 310 ). Other monogenetic obesity syndromes in mice and humans likely result from alterations in melanocortin signaling, including those due to alterations in other components of the peptide processing system, including carboxypeptidase E (CPE) ( 311 ). BRAIN-DERIVED NEUROTROPHIS FACTOR (BDNF/TrkB) SIGNALING BDNF, a member of the neurotrophin family, is widely expressed in the nervous system during development, as well as being expressed within several brain regions important for energy homeostasis in adults ( 312 ). BDNF acts via its receptor, TrkB, to control a variety of basic neural processes, including proliferation, survival, and plasticity. Given its many important roles in the CNS, alterations in BDNF (or its receptor, TrkB) would be predicted to interfere with multiple processes. Indeed, humans haploinsufficient for BDNF display impaired cognitive function and hyperactivity, in addition to hyperphagic obesity ( 313 , 314 ). Mutations in NTRK2 (which encodes TrkB) produce similar hyperphagia
