Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


Indeed, humans haploinsufficient for BDNF display impaired cognitive function and hyperactivity, in addition to hyperphagic obesity ( 313 , 314 ). Mutations in NTRK2 (which encodes TrkB) produce similar hyperphagia and obesity, along with impaired cognitive function and nociception, in rare human patients ( 315 ). Interestingly, a coding polymorphism in BDNF (Val66Met) is associated both with obesity and with binge eating disorders in humans ( 316 ), consistent with the role for BDNF/TrkB signaling in energy balance, and suggesting a broader role for this system in the genetic determination of adiposity in humans. Indeed, alteration of TrkB and/or BDNF function in the hypothalamus of mice promotes obesity ( 317 , 318 ). Furthermore, polymorphisms in BDNF are associated with risk for obesity in human GWAS studies ( 59 ). PRADER-WILLI SYNDROME (PWS) PWS presents in infancy with low birth weight, hypotonia and poor feeding, followed by a progressive transition to hyperphagia and obesity starting after age 2 or 3 years. Additional features include short stature (correctible with growth hormone therapy), central hypogonadism, characteristic behaviors (especially around feeding), and often cognitive impairment ( 319 , 320 ). Most instances result from a 5-7 Mb deletion of an imprinted region (PWS region) on the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) and are non-recurrent. Within this deletion lie a number of genetic elements, including the genes encoding MAGEL2 and NECDIN , which are thought to be involved in neural development and function, and a complex non-coding locus. Non protein -coding genes in this interval include a transcribed non-coding gene ( SNURF-SNRPN ) that encodes a multitude of C/D box small nucleolar (sno-) RNA genes, including SNORD116 . The RNA products of these SNORD genes are thought to be involved in RNA editing, perhaps of specific mRNA species. A small number of individuals with PWS phenotypes associated with microdeletions of the implicated region on chromosome 15 have reduced the number of candidate genes for this syndrome ( 319 ). These patients have demonstrated obesity, developmental delay, hypogonadism, and all major features of PWS. The minimum critical deletion region contains only non-coding genes, including the SNORD116 gene cluster, IPW , and SNORD109A . The Snord116 locus has been deleted from mouse models, which display a growth defect and behavioral abnormalities, including a relative hyperphagia that develops after weaning, but which is balanced by increased energy expenditure ( 321 ). Thus, the effects of SNORD116 likely contribute
