Neuroendocrine Control of Body Energy Homeostasis
KEYWORDS: pubmed, energy, neurons, leptin, obesity, food, article, free, free article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, intake, food intake, mice


defect and behavioral abnormalities, including a relative hyperphagia that develops after weaning, but which is balanced by increased energy expenditure ( 321 ). Thus, the effects of SNORD116 likely contribute to PWS, but may not account for all of the phenotypes. The functions of Necdin and Magel2 have also been examined in genetically targeted mouse models. Magel2-/- mice display early growth retardation with a mild increase in adiposity, and Necdin-/- mice display early postnatal respiratory failure along with a subset of PWS-associated behaviors ( 322 – 324 ). Thus, the full PWS likely results from the combined effects of multiple genes; several genes within the PWS region also likely contribute to the maximal obesity phenotype. It is not yet clear how each of the loci within the PWS alter neurophysiology and/or which neurons they might specifically affect to alter energy balance. Understanding the molecular physiology of PWS is likely to identify novel genes in the control of energy homeostasis in non-syndromic obesities. [ Please refer to chapter titled The Genetics of Obesity in Humans by Sadaf Farooqi and Stephen O'Rahilly, for additional information on genetic forms of obesity. CONCLUSION This chapter provides an overview of the complex neural and metabolic pathways that determine energy intake and expenditure. Distinct areas of the brain receive and interpret hormonal and neuronal messages from the periphery and other brain regions to integrate regulatory changes that maintain energy balance. These changes require a finely tuned balance of synaptic neurotransmitters, hormonal feedback loops and neuropeptide expression. The identification of the molecules encoding these messages using human studies and animal models has expedited the discovery of the crucial signaling and homeostatic pathways that govern these mechanisms. Their existence provides definitive refutation of vitalist/psychological notions that have permeated the field of energy intake and metabolism, and provides the heuristic, reductionist framework in which ongoing research on these questions should be conducted. It is likely that major genes and their modifiers, as well as allelic variants of a larger number of genes with lesser individual impact, will eventually account for both qualitative and quantitative aspects of the critical phenotypes in rodents and humans. REFERENCES 1. Leibel RL. Energy In, Energy Out, and the Effects of Obesity-Related Genes. N Engl J Med. 2008 Dec 11; 359 (24):2603–4. [ PMC free article : PMC7416552 ] [ PubMed : 19073980 ] 2. Cahill GF. Physiology of Insulin In Man: The Banting Memorial
