Chapter
KEYWORDS: oral, caries, health, countries, petersen, dental, diseases, data, programs, disease, developing, estupinan-day, teeth, risk, dmft


Oral and Craniofacial Diseases and Disorders Douglas Bratthall, Poul Erik Petersen, Jayanthi Ramanathan Stjernswärd, and L. Jackson Brown The oral cavity is an essential part ofthe body and contributes prevent formation of a cavity. Thus, the main risk factors to total health and well-being. Recent research indicates that include presence ofcariogenic biofilms and frequent consump- poor oral health affects general health and that some systemic tion of fermentable carbohydrates. Exposure to fluorides in oral cavity;the two main oral diseases present worldwide and flow and saliva protective systems are also important to coun- lead to tooth destruction or tooth loss: teract the cariogenic factors. Untreatedcariescangiverisetoinfectionofthetoothpulp, • dental caries,the disease that leads to cavities in the teeth whichcanspreadtothesupportingtissuesandthejaws,culmi- • periodontal disease,which leads to loosening ofteeth. natinginadvanceddiseaseconditionsthatareoftenpainful.For example,inThailand,recentsurveysofasampleof12-year-old Both diseases are preventable,and strong efforts have been childrenrevealedthat53percenthadsufferedfrompainordis- made to control them.Other diseases and conditions are much comfort from teeth over the past year (Petersen and others less prevalent,yet serious,and sometimes even life threatening: 2001).ThecorrespondingfiguresinChinawere34percentfor oral precancer and cancer, oral manifestations of HIV and 12-year-olds(Peng,Petersen,Fan,andothers1997)and74per- AIDS,noma,developmental disorders,and fluorosis ofteeth. centforadults(Petersen,Peng,andTai1997). Tooth decay is a public health problem worldwide. According to the U.S. Surgeon General’s report (U.S. Public DENTAL CARIES HealthService2000),dentalcariesisthesinglemostcommon chronicchildhooddiseaseintheUnitedStates.Epidemiological Dental caries develops by the localized dissolution ofthe tooth dataforalmost200countriesareavailableintheWorldHealth hard tissues,caused by acids that are produced by bacteria in Organization (WHO) Country/Area Profile Programme the biofilms (dental plaque) on the teeth and eventually lead to (CAPP) oral health database ( “cavities.” The biofilm consists of microorganisms, including se/index.html) (seetable38.1forexamples).Cariesprevalence the highly cariogenic mutans streptococci,and a matrix made of permanent teeth is expressed by the decayed,missing,and up mainly of extracellular polysaccharides. The destructive filledteeth(DMFT)index(calculatedbycountingthenumber acids are produced when fermentable carbohydrates (sugars) of DMFT of individuals and taking the mean for the group reach these biofilms, each episode resulting in tooth damage examined). One indicator age group used for international ural capacity of the body (through saliva) to remineralize will goalwastoachievethreeDMFTorfeweramong12-year-olds Table 38.1 Mean DMFT and SiC Index of 12-Year-Olds for Some Countries, by Ascending Order of DMFT Mean Country DMFT SiC Index Year Sample size Reference Australia 0.8 2.4 1999 29,130 Armfield, Roberts-Thomson, and Spencer 2003 Nepal 0.8 2.5 2000 623 Data from WHO, courtesy P. E. Petersen Sweden 0.9 2.6 2001 71,896 Sundberg 2002 Jamaica 1.0 2.8 1995 362 Data from PAHO, courtesy E. D. Beltran and S. Estupinan-Day China 1.0 3.0 1996 23,452 Data from WHO, courtesy P. E. Petersen Senegal
