Chapter
KEYWORDS: oral, caries, health, countries, petersen, dental, diseases, data, programs, disease, developing, estupinan-day, teeth, risk, dmft


the highest DMFT in a population (figure 38.1). A detailed analysis of caries data for many countries,both Table 38.1 shows several countries having fewer than three industrial and developing, shows skewed distributions of the mean DMFT but high SiC Index values, thus illustrating the disease—thatis,aproportionofapopulationofchildrenshow- hiddencariesburdenforchildren(Nishiandothers2002). ingahighorveryhighnumberofcariesandtherestshowinga Dental caries is found not only in children and young adults lownumberof cariesornone.Expressingcariesprevalenceas but also in all age groups. The elderly, in particular those meanDMFTmay,therefore,notaccuratelydescribethedisease with exposed tooth root surfaces, constitute a special risk 724 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Douglas Bratthall, Poul Erik Petersen, Jayanthi Ramanathan Stjernswärd, and others • Individuals with poor oral hygiene and frequent sugar DMFT SiC intake are at increased risk. • Individuals not exposed to fluorides—for example, from 9 fluoridated water or toothpastes—are at increased risk of 8 caries. • Persons with individual risk factors,such as reduced saliva flow or exposed tooth root surfaces,or with certain general diseases are also at increased risk ofcaries. Caries Intervention Programs Since the discovery of the caries-preventive effect of fluorides in the 1930s, different forms of fluoride administration pro- grams have been implemented,often with remarkable caries- 0 reducingeffects.Fluoridehasbeenaddedtodifferentvehicles, 0 6 12 18 24 30 36 42 48 55 61 67 73 79 85 91 97 Percentage of group such as water,salt,toothpaste,and milk.Fluoride tablets and fluoridemouthrinsinghavebeenusedamongyoungchildren Source: Adyatmaka and others 1998. Note: The mean DMFT is 2.3. The Significant Caries Index is 5.4. Arrow indicates the and in schools,and more recently even among adults at high proportion of individuals who are included in the calculation of the index. West caries risk (Petersen 1989, 1990). For individual use, fluoride Kalimantan is one of the most caries-affected provinces in Indonesia. inhighconcentrationshasbeenaddedtovariousformsofgels Figure 38.1 DMFT for 331 12-Year-Olds, West Kalimantan, Indonesia and varnishes to be applied on the teeth.Furthermore,fluor- ide in chewing gum is available in some countries. When a population .A Swedish study reported DMFT group of international experts on cariology were asked in a values of 21.4 and 24.4 for 50- and 70-year-olds,respectively, studytoidentifythemaincausesof thecariesdeclineseenin indicating that nearly all teeth were affected in these age groups several Western countries during recent decades, practically (Hugoson and others 1995).Thomson (2004),reviewing longi- alltheexpertspointedtofluoridedentifriceasthemostsignif- tudinal studies ofolder adults (age 50+),found an incidence of icantfactor(Bratthall,Hänsel-Petersson,andSundberg1996). root surface caries varying from 29 to 59 percent and conclud- According to WHO (1994),community water fluoridation ed that older people are a caries-active group,experiencing new is safe and cost-effective
