Chapter
KEYWORDS: oral, caries, health, countries, petersen, dental, diseases, data, programs, disease, developing, estupinan-day, teeth, risk, dmft


root surface caries varying from 29 to 59 percent and conclud- According to WHO (1994),community water fluoridation ed that older people are a caries-active group,experiencing new is safe and cost-effective in preventing dental caries in every caries at a rate comparable to that ofadolescents.With increas- age group, benefiting all residents served by the community ing numbers of people becoming 50 years of age or older in water regardless oftheir social or economic status (Burt 2002; some developing countries,root surface caries may become a Petersen and Lennon 2004; White, Antczak-Bouckoms, and significant problem. Weinstein 1989).Examples ofcountries with fluoridated water When we consider the global epidemiology ofdental caries, supplies for significant parts ofthe populations are Argentina, the main patterns seem to be the following: Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, Chile, Ireland, New Zealand,the United Kingdom,and the United States.In many • Countries with low mean sugar consumption (less than developing countries,lack ofcommunity water supplies makes 10 to 15 kilograms of sugar per person per year) generally water fluoridation impossible. have low mean caries prevalence. Effective fluoride toothpastes have been available for about • Countries with high mean sugar consumption (more than 40 years . They have been tested in numerous 20 to 25 kilograms ofsugar per person per year) and with- studies, in particular in school-based programs. The most out effective preventive programs generally have high mean commonly used concentrations are 1,000 or 1,500 parts per caries prevalence. million (ppm).Because most studies have been conducted in • Countries with high mean sugar consumption (more than developed countries,WHO launched a program testing a so- 20 to 25 kilograms ofsugar per person per year) using effec- called “affordable fluoridated toothpaste”in developing coun- tive preventive programs have been able to reduce the caries tries.In the West Kalimantan Province of Indonesia,a super- prevalence. vised school-based toothbrushing program was implemented over a period of three years,resulting in a reduction of 12 to Ifwe consider the prevalence ofcaries withina population, 40percent of caries incidence in the study groups when com- the main patterns seem to be as follows: pared to control groups (Adyatmaka and others 1998). • Disadvantaged or poor population groups have higher Domestic salt fluoridation is another method of automatic dental caries experience than advantaged groups. fluoridation. In the early 1950s, Switzerland and Austria Oral and Craniofacial Diseases and Disorders | 725 introduced this approach by offering their populations fluori- 2001). The Chinese health authorities have emphasized pre-
