Chapter
KEYWORDS: oral, caries, health, countries, petersen, dental, diseases, data, programs, disease, developing, estupinan-day, teeth, risk, dmft


three DMFT by 2000 but shows caries decline. 728 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Douglas Bratthall, Poul Erik Petersen, Jayanthi Ramanathan Stjernswärd, and others toothpastes) in preventing caries in children. The cost- public funds. Moreover, a filling does not affect the disease effectiveness ofthis intervention is reduced with the current process causing the cavities.Treatment must be directed against decline in prevalence ofcaries.It is recommended for use in the causative factors (described earlier).For the individual case, high-risk children consistently over a period oftime. several options are available in addition to the various fluoride • Strong evidence supports the effectiveness of sealants in programs mentioned: dietary counseling, sugar substitutes, preventing pits and fissure caries.The report recommends antimicrobial agents to reduce plaque and specific bacteria,and that the programs be limited to high-risk children and high- the use ofsaliva-stimulating products. risk teeth. In many developing countries,the lack ofdental manpower • Fluoride varnishes were not approved for use in the United means that carious teeth remain untreated.The ratio of den- States until 1994; hence, investigations are ongoing of the tists to population is particularly unfavorable in the African effectiveness ofthis intervention. region compared with Western European countries. For instance, according to CAPP, the ratio is 1 to 1.2 million in Care applied strict criteria ofevidence ofeffective- against about 1 to 1,000 in Scandinavian countries and 1 to representing the total population. For permanent teeth, a mah.se/index.html). In India, the ratio is 1 to 27,000 in the three-year follow-up was necessary. The number of studies urban areas but 1 to 300,000 in the rural areas . meeting all the criteria was not very high. Here are some Such ratios mean that neither dental caries disease nor the conclusions ofthis review: cavities will receive proper attention. After taking into consideration the high costs for dental • Daily use of fluoridated toothpaste is an effective method treatment and the lack ofdentists,atraumatic restorative treat- to reduce caries in permanent teeth among children and ment (ART) was introduced.This approach requires only hand adolescents.Daily,weekly,orbiweeklyfluoridemouthrins- instruments rather than sophisticated electric dental drills,and ing can reduce caries, but together with daily fluoride trained dental auxiliaries can deliver ART. The public dental • Daily fluoride mouth rinsing can reduce root surface caries appropriate and economic means ofproviding basic restorative varnish twice a year has a caries-reducing effect in perma- ducted in Tanzania showed no statistically significant differ- nent teeth among youth,
