Chapter
KEYWORDS: oral, caries, health, countries, petersen, dental, diseases, data, programs, disease, developing, estupinan-day, teeth, risk, dmft


caries appropriate and economic means ofproviding basic restorative varnish twice a year has a caries-reducing effect in perma- ducted in Tanzania showed no statistically significant differ- nent teeth among youth, as does the use of fluoridated ences between the retention of occlusal amalgam (74 percent) toothpaste. and ART occlusal restorations (67 percent) after a six-year • Fissure sealants have a caries-reducing effect. follow-up (1992–98) (Mandari,Frencken,and Van’t Hof2003). A potentially affordable treatment procedure that could pre- According to the SBU report,it was difficult to interpret the vent untreated carious teeth from being extracted, ART may effect ofprograms aimed at reducing the intake ofsugars or the have relevance to some middle-income countries,although the effect of so-called sugar substitutes. Systematic evaluation of method is not realistic for most low-income countries,where community preventive programs should be carried out in the sustainability ofsuch programs would be low. future,particularly to help identify appropriate alternatives for developing countries. PERIODONTAL DISEASES: CHRONIC GINGIVITIS ASPECTS OF TREATMENT OF CAVITIES AND CHRONIC PERIODONTITIS ANDOFCARIES DISEASE Gingivitis,theinflammationof gumtissuecausedbybacteria One has to differentiate between treatment of cavities and accumulating in the plaque along the gingival margin, pre- treatment of the disease process resulting in cavities. The cedes chronic periodontitis. The more destructive form of normal treatment of a tooth with a cavity is a filling or,if the periodontaldisease,whichbreaksdownthesupportingtissues cavity is large, a crown. Large cavities may involve “root- of the teeth, progressively leading to loosening of teeth and fillings”or even extraction of the tooth.A variety of materials tooth loss,affects 10 to 15 percent of most adult populations are used globally: composites, amalgam, gold, porcelain, and . Cigarette smoking and diabetes mellitus others.Options for replacing extracted teeth include removable (with poorly controlled diabetes) are two major risk factors prostheses,fixed bridges,or implants.The more complex treat- associated with periodontal disease and appear markedly to ments are costly, and no country has been able to afford to affect the initiation and progression of the disease (Genco introduce systems in which all dental costs are covered by 1996;Papapanou1999). Oral and Craniofacial Diseases and Disorders | 729 In recent years there has been a growing awareness of the Screening populations and routine examination in dental association between some systemic diseases and oral disease, andmedicalclinicsfororalprecancerandearlycancerlesions especially periodontal diseases.For example,a national study in would reduce the mortality,morbidity,and cost of treatment the United States found that the prevalence ofdiabetes mellitus associated with oral cancers. Not all oral premalignancies in patients with
