Chapter
KEYWORDS: oral, caries, health, countries, petersen, dental, diseases, data, programs, disease, developing, estupinan-day, teeth, risk, dmft


professional cleaning, antibiotics, diseases, tobacco use identification and treatment of systemic diseases Elimination of pockets if present and removal of local dental irritants, such as rough fillings Tobacco cessation Oral precancer and cancer Tobacco and alcohol use; see chapter 29 Tobacco cessation; see chapter 29 Oral manifestations of HIV/AIDS See chapter 18 See chapter 18. Special oral care Noma (cancrum oris) Probably bacterial in connection with severe Antibiotics together with nutritional support; surgery malnourishment sometimes necessary Developmental disorders Various genetic or environmental causes such as Tobacco cessation programs aimed at pregnant mothers tobaccouse Fluorosis of teeth Too high concentration of fluoride in drinking waters or Identification of water sources and reduction of fluoride or from other sources recommendation of other water sources Source:Authors; partly based on Bratthall and Barmes 1993. Note:This table is by no means complete. Many other oral diseases or conditions are important and need attention. The listed ones are of special relevance for developing countries. through better quality of children’s diet. Some prevention hormones, biomarkers for oral cancer, inflammatory media- outlined in table 38.3. affordable and effective devices. Continuousattemptsarebeingmadetoassessthesociobe- havioralfactorsinoralhealthandtheinformationonriskfac- RESEARCH AND FUTURE ACTIONS tors.Cariesriskassessmentmodelsaretestedalsofortheindi- vidual cases.Through present knowledge,individuals in need Severalpromisingactionsagainstfactorscausingthetwomajor oftargetedactionscanbeidentified.Anotherstrongtrendisto oral diseases, caries and periodontal disease, are ongoing: useevidence-basedreviews.Thistypeofresearchis,ofcourse, attempts to control the formation of the biofilm with its notrestrictedtooralhealth.Severalreviewshavealreadybeen microfloraareofhighpriority.Oneresearchlineistoidentify done, and a frequent conclusion is that the number of ran- by antibioticsorantiseptics.Preventingdentalcariesbyavac- futureoralhealthresearchimproves,butnotallresearchprob- cineisnotanewidea,andeffortscontinue.Amongotherideas lemscanbesolvedbysuchstudies.Community-basedpartic- istheuseofplantibodies(plant-derivedtherapeuticantibodies) ipatory research is another approach that may be used to orgeneticallymodifiedbacteria,releasingcomponentstargeting improveoralhealthstudies(O’FallonandDearry2002). pathogens.Functionalfoods,whichincludevariouselementsin Within the management of dental diseases—in particular, food, may be another future option to control oral diseases. caries—is the “minimally invasive dentistry”approach,which Althoughpilotorsmall-scalestudiesseempromising,itwillbe promotes the concept that large restorations (crowns,bridges) severalyearsbeforesuchmethodscanpossiblybeofuseinpop- are not as necessary as believed. Risk assessment, preventive ulationsbecauselargeclinicaltrialshavenotevenstarted. measures,and improved dental materials with good adhesion Saliva is believed to be usable as a diagnostic tool,providing capacity are some ofthe several components in this approach. noninvasive assessment of a number of oral and systemic dis- Research in transfer of knowledge using the Internet or eases.Devices are being designed to identify in saliva various other electronic media is another strongly expanding area, bacteria and their virulence factors,drugs,metabolic products, from which developing countries should be able to benefit. 732 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Douglas Bratthall, Poul Erik Petersen, Jayanthi Ramanathan Stjernswärd, and others COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ORAL HEALTH CARE DMFT Using the evidence available,the U.S.Surgeon General’s report (U.S.Public Health Service
