Chapter
KEYWORDS: oral, caries, health, countries, petersen, dental, diseases, data, programs, disease, developing, estupinan-day, teeth, risk, dmft


in Developing Countries | Douglas Bratthall, Poul Erik Petersen, Jayanthi Ramanathan Stjernswärd, and others COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF ORAL HEALTH CARE DMFT Using the evidence available,the U.S.Surgeon General’s report (U.S.Public Health Service 2000) and the report ofthe Swedish Council on Technology Assessment in Health Care (SBU 2002; 7 see alsoKallestal and others 2003) have attempted to determine the cost-effectiveness of oral health intervention programs from developed countries. Among the findings in the U.S.report were the following: 4 • Water fluoridation costs about a dollar per person per year for water serving most individuals in the United States. Community water fluoridation is believed to be an effective 1 and cost-effective caries preventive method. • Economic analyses of community dental sealant programs 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 suggest that they are cost-effective and may even provide US$ cost savings when used in high-risk populations. Source: For health expenditure: for DMFT: Note: Original data for health expenditures were in international dollars and were The Swedish report ,reviewing original studies converted to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate of US$1 (cid:1) 0.70681 (period average June 2003). Because the exchange rate varies over time, the data should be taken as on economic evaluation of caries prevention (a total of 17 approximate values. selected from 1966 to 2003 MEDLINE and manual Internet Figure 38.2 DMFT as Related to Health Care Expenditure per Capita searches), commented that no conclusion could be drawn for 12-Year-Olds in 149 Countries owing to the low evidence values and contradictory results. This comment prompted the group to present its own calcula- tion for cost-effectiveness based on Swedish caries prevalence on the effectiveness of traditionally accepted preventive meas- the cost-effectiveness for fluoridated toothpaste is extremely economic pressures.” Finally, he stated that traditional cost- good (cost per prevented DMFT very low),which,ofcourse,is benefit and cost-effectiveness analyses have not been able to not surprising,given the significant caries-reducing results in help the decision makers choose wisely and that the time per- combination with low cost for society. spective for the real effects ofprevention lies beyond the inter- Noclearcorrelationappearstoexistbetweencariesexperi- ests ofdecision makers. Somecountrieswiththelowesthealthcareexpenditureshave is restorative dentistry—that is, to make fillings, crowns, and values for caries experience (DMFT) that are similar to or dentures.Is this a feasible alternative for developing countries? even lower than those countries having the highest expendi- Yee and Sheiham (2003) give some examples:In Nepal,a sim- often have low per capita sugar consumption and, therefore,
