Chapter
KEYWORDS: oral, caries, health, countries, petersen, dental, diseases, data, programs, disease, developing, estupinan-day, teeth, risk, dmft


for developing countries? even lower than those countries having the highest expendi- Yee and Sheiham (2003) give some examples:In Nepal,a sim- often have low per capita sugar consumption and, therefore, include the many additional expenses for impoverished rural It may seem surprising that so few studies are available tal fees,meals,and lodging but not including lost wages,would regarding the cost-effectiveness of caries prevention,or of any amount to US$12,an enormous sum considering the average other oral disease.In a critical review article,Schwarz (1998) Nepalese’s earning ofUS$0.75 per day,and it is enough to buy analyzed the issue.He wrote,“Several decades after consider- food for a month. Yee and Sheiham conclude that treating able improvements in the oral disease situation were docu- caries with the traditional method of restorative dentistry is mented in Scandinavia, doubts are still expressed about beyond the financial capabilities of most low-income nations recommended that four elements be considered when a pre- ficient resources to finance an essential package of health care ventive effect was evaluated: the definition of prevention,the services for their children. Yee and Sheiham (2003) estimate practical perception of effective prevention, the appropriate- that treating dental caries by the traditional amalgam restora- ness oftraditional cost-effectiveness analysis,and the time fac- tive dentistry in the permanent dentition of the child popula- tor. He pointed out that “caries prevention is not uniformly tion would cost about US$2,000 for 1,000 children of mixed defined by the profession,that dental research is casting doubt ages from 6 to 18 years, which would require financial Oral and Craniofacial Diseases and Disorders | 733 resources beyond the capabilities of low-income nations. Axell,T.1976.“A Prevalence Study ofOral Mucosal Lesions in an Adult approach to reduce caries burden instead of the restorative View.”Journal ofPublic Health Dentistry60:335–37. approach. Beltran-Aguilar,E.D.,S.Estupinan-Day,and R.Baez.1999.“Analysis of Although several studies evaluating the effectiveness of Prevalence and Trends ofDental Caries in the Americas between the intervention and oral health promotion programs in develop- 1970s and 1990s.”International Dental Journal 49:322–29. ing countries are becoming available (Estupinan-Day and Bratthall,D.2000.“Introducing the Significant Caries Index Together with others 2001; Pakhomov and others 1995; Petersen and others a Proposal for a New Global Oral Health Goal for 12-Year-Olds.” International Dental Journal50:378–84. 2004),a definite need exists for further cost-effectiveness analy- sis on such programs,which should be addressed in the future. Priorities in Developing Countries, ed. D. T. Jamison,W. H. Mosley, It would also be useful if studies were commenced on inter- A.R.Measham,and J.L.Bobadilla,647–59.Washington,DC:World vention
