The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


LDL-C and Lp(a) levels while increasing triglycerides and HDL-C levels but these effects are dependent on the dose and route of administration (transdermal has smaller effects than oral). Concurrent progesterone treatment has little or no effect on the decrease in LDL-C induced by estrogen administration but may blunt the estrogen effect on HDL-C and triglyceride levels depending on the androgenicity of the progesterone. The polycystic ovarian syndrome is associated with increases in LDL-C, triglycerides, and Lp(a) and decreases in HDL-C. The dyslipidemia that occurs with prolactinomas, GH deficiency, hypothyroidism, Cushing’s syndrome, male hypogonadism, androgen deprivation therapy, polycystic ovarian syndrome, and the loss of estrogens may contribute to an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Endocrine disorders and the administration of various hormones can alter lipid metabolism and plasma lipid levels, which may increase or decrease the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). In this chapter we will discuss the effects of a number of endocrine disorders on lipid metabolism and plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels. It is worth noting that in many instances the literature is not consistent with various studies reporting different results. These differences may be due to a variety of factors such as the differences in the severity of the disease state, differences in the duration of the disease, underlying genetic factors that differ between individuals and populations, differences in environmental factors such as diet, the presence of other abnormalities that can alter lipid metabolism such as obesity or diabetes, and other unrecognized factors that could influence the expression and manifestation of various endocrine disorders on lipid parameters. In describing the alterations in lipid metabolism and plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels induced by various endocrine disorders we have tried to describe the typical alterations that have been most consistently observed, recognizing that these changes have not been observed in certain published reports and cannot be extrapolated to individual patients. PROLACTINOMA Effect of Prolactinomas on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels Most studies have shown that patients with a prolactinoma have modestly elevated plasma total cholesterol and LDL-C levels ( 1 - 8 ). In some studies plasma triglyceride levels are also elevated ( 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 - 10 ). HDL-C levels have been reported to be decreased in some studies ( 7 , 8 , 10 ,
