The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


elevated ( 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 - 10 ). HDL-C levels have been reported to be decreased in some studies ( 7 , 8 , 10 , 11 ). Most studies have primarily included female patients with prolactinomas but dyslipidemia is also observed in men with hyperprolactinemia ( 4 ). Table 1. Effect of Hyperprolactinemia on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window Total Cholesterol Increase LDL-C Increase HDL-C No Change or Decrease Triglycerides No Change or Increase The mechanisms accounting for the alterations in plasma lipid levels are not clear but could be related to a number of factors. First, prolactin may have direct effects on lipid metabolism. For example, prolactin decreases lipoprotein lipase activity in human adipose tissue and plasma lipoprotein lipase activity is decreased in patients with prolactinomas, which could increase triglyceride levels ( 2 , 12 ). Second, elevated prolactin levels are associated with decreased estrogen levels in women, a change that is associated with elevated LDL-C and decreased HDL-C levels. Third, elevated prolactin levels are associated with obesity, which could adversely affect plasma lipid levels ( 1 ). Finally, with large prolactinomas the secretion of growth hormone (GH) may be impaired, which can result in abnormal plasma lipid levels ( 2 ). Lowering prolactin levels with dopamine agonists, such as bromocriptine or cabergoline, has been shown to decrease plasma total and LDL-C levels and in some instances triglycerides ( 1 , 6 - 8 , 13 - 19 ). However, it is unclear if this effect is solely due to lowering prolactin levels or to other effects of dopamine agonists. The administration of dopamine agonists to patients without prolactinomas has also been shown to induce changes in plasma lipid levels ( 20 ). It should be noted that in patients with very high prolactin levels (1355ug/L) pituitary surgery rapidly lowered prolactin levels (77ug/L) and a statistically significant decrease in total cholesterol and triglyceride levels was seen ( 21 ). LDL-C levels were also decreased 8.8% but didn’t achieve statistical significance perhaps due to the small number of patients studied (n=17). This observation suggests that lowering prolactin has beneficial effects on the lipid profile. Risk of Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease (ASCVD) In patients with prolactinomas, carotid-intima media thickness has been shown to be increased ( 9 , 10 , 22 ). Moreover, a positive association of serum prolactin concentrations with all-cause and cardiovascular
