The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


with prolactinomas, carotid-intima media thickness has been shown to be increased ( 9 , 10 , 22 ). Moreover, a positive association of serum prolactin concentrations with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality and events has been reported ( 23 , 24 ). This increase in cardiovascular mortality has been particularly noted in males with elevated prolactin levels ( 25 , 26 ). These results suggest that hyperprolactinemia might increase the risk of ASCVD. While prolactin induced abnormalities in lipids could contribute to this increased risk, it should be recognized that elevated prolactin levels also induce other metabolic abnormalities such as obesity, pro-inflammatory state, insulin resistance, and alterations in glucose metabolism that could accelerate atherosclerosis ( 8 ). GROWTH HORMONE DEFICIENCY Effect of Growth Hormone Deficiency on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels Dyslipidemia is commonly observed in adults with growth hormone (GH) deficiency ( 27 - 34 ). Plasma total cholesterol, LDL-C, and triglyceride levels are elevated while HDL-C levels are decreased. Some studies reporting no difference in LDL size and others an increase in small dense LDL while Lp(a) levels in controls and in GH deficient patients are similar ( 30 , 31 , 35 , 36 ). It should be recognized that GH deficiency leads to increased adiposity, which may be an important contributor to dyslipidemia ( 37 ). However, even when controlling for BMI, dyslipidemia is still present in GH deficient patients ( 27 ). Table 2. Effect of Growth Hormone Deficiency on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window Total Cholesterol Increase LDL-C Increase HDL-C Decrease Triglycerides Increase Lp (a) No change Effect of Growth Hormone Therapy on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels Numerous studies have examined the effect of GH replacement therapy on serum lipid levels. A meta-analysis by Newman and colleagues reported on the effect of low dose GH replacement (<0.7mg/day; seven studies) and high dose GH replacement (>0.7mg/day; sixteen studies) involving over 1000 subjects ( 38 ). In both the low dose and high dose groups, GH replacement therapy decreased total and LDL-C levels but did not significantly affect either HDL-C or triglyceride levels. LDL-C levels were decreased by 11.3%. A meta-analysis of 37 trials by Maison et al also found that total and LDL-C levels were decreased with no significant changes in triglycerides or HDL-C by GH treatment ( 39 ). In a few studies, HDL-C levels have been observed to increase with GH therapy
