The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


were decreased with no significant changes in triglycerides or HDL-C by GH treatment ( 39 ). In a few studies, HDL-C levels have been observed to increase with GH therapy ( 32 , 40 , 41 ). For example, in a 15 year long term perspective study GH therapy reduced LDL-C and increased HDL-C levels, while having no significant effect on triglyceride levels ( 42 ). The ability of GH therapy to decrease LDL-C levels occurs even when patients are on statin therapy ( 43 ). Moreover, the decrease in LDL-C levels with GH treatment correlates with baseline LDL-C levels (i.e. the higher the LDL-C the greater the decrease with GH treatment) ( 44 ). Interestingly GH treatment increases Lp(a) levels ( 41 , 45 - 52 ). Of note, studies have shown that treatment with GH increases Lp(a) levels while treatment with IGF-1 decreases Lp(a) levels ( 53 ). Whether this increase in Lp(a) levels will enhance the risk of cardiovascular disease is unknown. Table 3. Effect of Growth Hormone Therapy on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window Total Cholesterol Decrease LDL-C Decrease HDL-C No Change or Increase Triglycerides No Change Lp (a) Increase Mechanism for the Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins in GH Deficiency LDL-C Studies have shown that GH increases the expression of hepatic LDL receptors ( 54 , 55 ). Additionally, GH decreases circulating PCSK9 levels, which would also increase hepatic LDL receptors ( 56 ). As a consequence, the clearance of LDL-C is accelerated by GH treatment ( 57 , 58 ). Thus, the increase in total cholesterol and LDL-C levels in GH deficient patients is likely due to a decrease in hepatic LDL receptors and therefore with GH administration the number of LDL receptors increases leading to a decrease in plasma LDL-C levels. Notably, in a patient with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, devoid of functional LDL receptors, GH treatment did not result in a decrease in LDL-C levels, whereas in GH deficient patients, normal subjects, and patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia treatment with GH resulted in a decrease in LDL-C levels ( 57 ). This observation further demonstrates the importance of LDL receptors in mediating the decrease in LDL-C levels in response to GH administration. TRIGLYCERIDES In GH deficient patients there is an increase in hepatic VLDL production and a reduction in VLDL clearance, which together could lead to an increase in plasma
