The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


GH administration. TRIGLYCERIDES In GH deficient patients there is an increase in hepatic VLDL production and a reduction in VLDL clearance, which together could lead to an increase in plasma triglyceride levels ( 59 ). GH therapy stimulates VLDL secretion and increases VLDL clearance, which is likely due to its effects in up-regulating low density lipoprotein receptors, leading to a neutral effect on plasma triglyceride levels ( 60 ). The enhancement in VLDL secretion by GH treatment is likely facilitated by the well-recognized ability of GH to stimulate lipolysis in adipose tissue, which will provide fatty acids for the synthesis of triglycerides in the liver and enhance VLDL production ( 61 ). GH increases fatty acid oxidation but this may not be able to offset the increased lipolysis and VLDL production ( 62 ). LIPOPROTEIN (a) In transgenic mice expressing the human Apo (a) gene, GH administration increases the mRNA levels of Apo (a) and plasma levels of Apo (a) ( 63 ). The increased production of Apo (a) induced by GH could account for the increase in Lp(a) levels induced by GH treatment. Risk of Cardiovascular Disease Several observational studies have found that patients with hypopituitarism on conventional replacement therapy have an increased mortality that is primarily due to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease ( 64 - 68 ). Additionally, the risk of myocardial infarctions is increased in hypopituitarism ( 64 , 69 ). Moreover, increased coronary artery calcifications and carotid intima-media thickness have been observed in patients with GH deficiency ( 33 , 70 - 77 ). It is likely that the dyslipidemia that commonly occurs in GH deficient patients contributes to this increased risk of cardiovascular disease. However, GH deficient patients also display an increase in visceral adiposity, insulin resistance, impaired glucose metabolism, an increased prevalence of the metabolic syndrome, and an increased pro-inflammatory state with elevations in C-reactive protein and inflammatory cytokines, which could also contribute to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease ( 40 ). Since GH deficient patients have an increased risk of ASCVD one could consider GH deficiency as a risk enhancer when evaluating patients for lipid lowering therapy. Whether treating GH deficient patients with GH replacement therapy reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease is uncertain, as there are no long-term randomized outcome studies. There are however a number of observational studies. Svensson and colleagues reported that in patients with hypopituitarism on GH replacement
