The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


is uncertain, as there are no long-term randomized outcome studies. There are however a number of observational studies. Svensson and colleagues reported that in patients with hypopituitarism on GH replacement therapy the risk of myocardial infarctions was decreased but the occurrence of cerebrovascular events appeared to be increased compared to untreated patients ( 64 ). Bengtsson and colleagues reported that morbidity was not increased in patients with GH deficiency who were treated with GH compared to the general population and was even reduced compared to untreated patients ( 78 ). Holmer et al reported that in GH deficient patients, the risk of nonfatal stroke declined in males and females and nonfatal cardiac events decreased in males treated with GH replacement therapy ( 79 ). Finally, van Bunderen et al reported that GH deficient men receiving GH treatment had a mortality rate similar to the background population but women had an increase in cardiovascular mortality ( 80 ). Together these results suggest that GH therapy may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. In non-randomized trials a decrease in carotid intima-media thickness was observed in GH deficient patients treated with GH ( 71 , 74 , 75 , 77 , 81 - 83 ). Other similar studies have not shown a decrease in carotid intima-media thickness with GH treatment [61]. Furthermore, in Brazilian patients with lifelong isolated GH deficiency, treatment with GH increased carotid intima-media thickness ( 84 ). Thus, at this time it is uncertain whether GH replacement therapy will have beneficial effects on long term ASCVD outcomes. Randomized outcome trials will be required to definitively answer this question. ACROMEGALY Effect of Acromegaly on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels In patients with acromegaly an increase in plasma triglyceride levels and a decrease in HDL-C levels have been frequently observed ( 85 - 95 ). In one large retrospective study of 307 newly diagnosed patients with acromegaly, 33% of patients were noted to have elevated triglyceride levels (>150mg/dl) while 17% of men and 62% of women had low HDL-C levels defined by metabolic syndrome criteria ( 96 ). The effect of acromegaly on total cholesterol and LDL-C levels has been variable ( 85 , 86 , 88 - 91 , 93 - 95 , 97 - 100 ). However, an increase in small dense LDL levels and Apo B levels may be seen ( 92 - 94 , 101 ). Additionally, an increase
