The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


expressing the human Apo (a) gene, GH administration increases the mRNA levels of Apo (a) and plasma levels of Apo (a) ( 63 ). The increased production of Apo (a) induced by GH could account for the increase in Lp(a) levels in patients with acromegaly. Of note studies have shown that treatment with GH increases Lp(a) levels however treatment with IGF-1 decreases Lp(a) levels ( 53 ). Risk of Cardiovascular Disease Cardiovascular disease is increased in patients with acromegaly but much of this is related to acromegalic cardiomyopathy, valvular heart disease, and arrhythmias ( 116 , 117 ). It remains uncertain whether atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is increased ( 116 , 117 ). A study using the German Acromegaly Registry did not observe an increase in myocardial infarctions or strokes in 479 patients with acromegaly compared to the general population ( 118 ). Similarly, a large cohort study from Korea with over 1800 patients with acromegaly also did not observe an increase in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events ( 119 ). Several studies have shown an increase in carotid intima-media thickness in patients with acromegaly ( 89 , 90 , 120 - 124 ). However, a study by Otsuki and colleagues showed that if one controls for risk factors carotid intima-media thickness in patients with acromegaly was similar to matched controls ( 125 ). In contrast, Ozkan and colleagues found that carotid intima-media thickness in patients with acromegaly was still increased even in matched controls ( 124 ). Several studies have shown that the treatment of acromegaly results in a decrease in carotid intima-media thickness ( 89 , 90 , 122 , 126 ). In contrast to the results seen in studies of carotid intima-media thickness, studies of coronary artery calcium score in patients with acromegaly have not consistently shown an increase in atherosclerosis. While Cannavo et al have shown an increase in coronary artery calcium, other studies have not shown an increase ( 127 - 130 ). In the study of Herrmann et al the coronary artery calcium score directly correlated with disease duration suggesting that patients with long standing acromegaly are more likely to develop atherosclerosis ( 131 ). Thus, whether acromegaly increases atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events requires further investigation. HYPOTHYROIDISM Effect of Hypothyroidism on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels It has been recognized since the 1930s that hypothyroidism results in an increase in plasma cholesterol levels ( 132
