The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


-11 mg/dL, triglycerides by -4.5 mg/dL, apo B by -6.6 mg/dL, and Lp(a) by -1.99 mg/dL with no significant changes in HDL-C or apo AI ( 146 ). However, when this meta-analysis only included studies with either a placebo or observational control group they did not demonstrate any significant changes in lipids with levothyroxine therapy ( 146 ). It is likely that the patients with higher TSH levels and higher LDL-C levels will benefit from treatment with L-thyroxine ( 151 ). Risk of Cardiovascular Disease in Subclinical Hypothyroidism A major issue in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism is whether they are at increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease. Some but not all meta-analyses have suggested that subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with a small increase in cardiovascular risk particularly in young patients and patients whose TSH is greater than 10mIU/L ( 147 , 152 - 156 ). The length of time that a patient is hypothyroid and the degree of elevation of cholesterol may be important factors. Whether thyroid treatment lowers this risk is uncertain with some observational studies reporting a benefit and others reporting no benefit ( 147 , 148 , 157 ). No randomized outcome studies have addressed whether treatment with thyroid hormone will reduce cardiovascular events in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism and without such studies it is difficult to be certain whether thyroid hormone replacement is indicated. In patients with subclinical hypothyroidism carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) is increased and two meta-analyses found that thyroid hormone treatment reduced cIMT suggesting a possible beneficial effect on atherosclerosis ( 158 - 160 ). This decrease in cIMT was associated with a reduction in plasma lipid levels. However, it should be noted that a recent randomized study of 185 subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism (TSH 6.35mIU/L) did not find any difference in cIMT after 18 months in the thyroid hormone treated group compared to the placebo group ( 161 ). Only a small number of studies have examined coronary calcium scores but the limited data suggest an increase in coronary calcium in individuals with subclinical hypothyroidism ( 162 - 165 ). It is recommended by the American Thyroid Association, and the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists that subclinical hypothyroidism should be treated when the TSH level is >10 mIU/L ( 157 ). Routine treatment for patients with TSH levels between 4.5 and 10mIU/L is not recommended but one can decide to initiate therapy based
