The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


TSH level is >10 mIU/L ( 157 ). Routine treatment for patients with TSH levels between 4.5 and 10mIU/L is not recommended but one can decide to initiate therapy based on individual factors, such as antibodies and symptoms ( 157 ). There are no recommendations by these societies to treat with thyroid hormone replacement for the purpose of correcting abnormal lipid and lipoprotein levels or reducing cardiovascular risk. Since randomized clinical trials have not consistently shown a lipid-lowering benefit with thyroid hormone therapy in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism (TSH < 10mIU/L), patients with significant hyperlipidemia, should be treated with lifestyle changes and lipid-lowering medications. Mechanism for the Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins in Hypothyroidism Thyroid hormone regulates the expression and activity of a number of key enzymes and receptors that regulate lipid and lipoprotein levels. LDL-C The primary mechanism by which hypothyroidism results in elevated total cholesterol and LDL-C levels is via a decrease in LDL receptor levels in the liver. Thyroid hormone stimulates the expression of LDL receptors and in hypothyroidism the number of hepatic LDL receptors is reduced leading to the decreased clearance of circulating LDL ( 132 , 166 - 171 ). This decreased clearance of LDL accounts for the increase in plasma LDL levels. Thyroid hormone stimulates LDL receptor expression by increasing SREBP-2 and/or by direct effects on the LDL receptor promoter ( 172 , 173 ). Finally, PCSK9 levels are increased with hypothyroidism, which could further contribute to a decrease in hepatic LDL receptor levels by accelerating the catabolism of LDL receptors ( 174 , 175 ). Interestingly, treatment of HepG2 cells in vitro with TSH stimulated PCSK9 expression and decreased LDL receptors ( 175 ) In addition to the effects on the LDL receptor levels, other changes induced by thyroid hormone may also contribute to the increases in LDL-C levels in hypothyroid patients. Studies in LDL receptor deficient mice (LDL receptor knock-out mice) have shown that thyroid hormone administration lowers LDL-C levels despite the absence of LDL receptors ( 176 , 177 ).Thyroid hormone also stimulates the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids by increasing cholesterol 7 alpha hydroxylase, the initial enzyme in bile acid synthesis, and in hypothyroid patients a decrease in bile acid synthesis could contribute to an increase in LDL-C levels ( 174 , 177 - 180 ). Furthermore, the expression of ABCG5 and ABCG8, the transporters that mediate the movement
