The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


acid synthesis could contribute to an increase in LDL-C levels ( 174 , 177 - 180 ). Furthermore, the expression of ABCG5 and ABCG8, the transporters that mediate the movement of cholesterol from the hepatocyte into the bile, are also stimulated by thyroid hormone ( 181 , 182 ). In addition, studies by Goldberg and colleagues demonstrated that thyroid hormone decreases Apo B production and hence in hypothyroidism there could be an increase in Apo B synthesis ( 176 ). Finally, studies have shown that hypothyroidism is associated with increased intestinal cholesterol absorption that is due to an increase in NPC1L1 ( 181 ). Thus, a number of potential pathways could contribute to the increased LDL-C that occurs in hypothyroidism. TRIGLYCERIDES As noted above hypothyroidism has only modest effects on plasma triglyceride levels. Several but not all studies have shown that thyroid hormone stimulates lipoprotein lipase activity ( 183 - 188 ). A decrease in lipoprotein lipase activity could lead to the decreased clearance of triglyceride rich lipoproteins accounting for the increase in plasma triglyceride levels in hypothyroidism. Moreover, studies have shown that thyroid hormone stimulates the expression of Apo A-V, which potentiates the activity of lipoprotein lipase, and is associated with decreases in plasma triglyceride levels ( 189 ). Additionally, thyroid hormone decreases angiopoietin-like proteins 3 and 8, inhibitors of lipoprotein lipase, and the levels of angiopoietin-like proteins 3 and 8 are elevated in hypothyroid patients which could lead to a decrease in lipoprotein lipase activity ( 190 , 191 ). Lastly, hypothyroidism increases hepatic VLDL-TG secretion rate, which could also contribute to elevations in plasma triglyceride levels ( 192 ). HDL-C As noted above hypothyroidism has only modest effects on plasma HDL-C levels. However, thyroid hormone might be having effects on HDL metabolism that are not reflected in HDL-C levels, as a number of key proteins involved in HDL metabolism and reverse cholesterol transport are regulated by thyroid hormone. Specifically, CETP, hepatic lipase, LCAT, and SR-B1 are increased by thyroid hormone and are decreased in hypothyroidism ( 182 , 183 , 185 , 188 , 193 - 200 ). A decrease in CETP, hepatic lipase, LCAT, and SR-B1 would be anticipated to result in a decrease in reverse cholesterol transport ( 115 ). Moreover, sera from animals treated with thyroid hormone have the increased ability to facilitate the efflux of cholesterol from macrophages to HDL via ABCA1 (
