The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


industry to develop thyroid hormone analogs and mimetics that would have the beneficial effects of thyroid hormone on lipids and lipoproteins without inducing the harmful effects of excess thyroid hormone ( 205 ). Mechanism for the Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins in Hyperthyroidism Thyroid hormone regulates the expression and activity of a number of key enzymes and receptors that regulate lipid and lipoprotein levels. For details see section on hypothyroidism. LDL-C The decrease in LDL-C levels is primarily due to an increase in hepatic LDL receptors resulting in the accelerated clearance of circulating LDL ( 132 ). This increase in LDL receptors is due to thyroid hormone stimulating the increased expression of LDL receptors ( 132 , 172 , 173 ). In addition, hyperthyroidism leads to a decrease in PCSK9, which will lead to a decrease in the degradation in LDL receptors contributing to the increase in LDL receptors ( 174 ). Studies in LDL receptor deficient mice (LDL receptor knock-out mice) have shown that thyroid hormone administration lowers LDL levels despite the absence of LDL receptors, indicating that factors in addition to up-regulation of the LDL could contribute to the decrease in circulating LDL [167, 168]. Thyroid hormone stimulates the elimination of cholesterol from the body by increasing the conversion of cholesterol into bile acids and increasing the biliary secretion of bile acids and cholesterol ( 174 , 179 , 180 , 206 ). Thyroid hormone also diminishes intestinal absorption of dietary cholesterol ( 181 ). Finally, thyroid hormone decreases Apo B production and hence hyperthyroidism could result in a decrease in Apo B synthesis [167]. The relative contribution of these changes in contributing to the decrease in LDL-C is unknown. HDL-C A number of key proteins involved in HDL metabolism and reverse cholesterol transport are regulated by thyroid hormone. Specifically, CETP, hepatic lipase, LCAT, and SR-B1 are increased by thyroid hormone ( 182 , 183 , 185 , 188 , 193 - 200 ). An increase in CETP, hepatic lipase, LCAT, and SR-B1 would be anticipated to result in a decrease in HDL-C and an increase in reverse cholesterol transport ( 115 ). Moreover, sera from animals treated with thyroid hormone have the increased ability to facilitate the efflux of cholesterol from macrophages to HDL via ABCA1 ( 201 ). LIPOPROTEIN (a) The mechanism for the decrease in Lp(a) is unknown. Studies have shown that decreases in PCSK9
