The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


efflux of cholesterol from macrophages to HDL via ABCA1 ( 201 ). LIPOPROTEIN (a) The mechanism for the decrease in Lp(a) is unknown. Studies have shown that decreases in PCSK9 activity can reduce Lp(a) levels so perhaps the thyroid hormone induced decrease in PCSK9 plays a role ( 174 , 207 ). CUSHING’S SYNDROME Effect of Cushing’s Syndrome on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels It is difficult to state the true prevalence of hyperlipidemia in patients with Cushing’s syndrome due to the fact that cut-offs used to establish the presence of hyperlipidemia vary among different studies and the number of patients in these studies have been relatively small. Additionally, the severity of the Cushing’s syndrome is also a key variable. Nevertheless, it is apparent that dyslipidemia is a common feature of Cushing’s syndrome with an elevation in plasma triglycerides and total cholesterol due to an increase in circulating VLDL and LDL ( 208 - 214 ). The elevation in total and LDL-C levels correlates with the severity of the Cushing’s syndrome ( 208 , 210 ). A comparison of ACTH-dependent and ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome did not observe differences in lipid levels ( 215 ). The central obesity that characterizes Cushing’s syndrome likely contributes to the dyslipidemia with patients who have central obesity more likely to have alterations in lipid levels ( 214 ). Additionally, if Cushing’s syndrome is associated with diabetes this can further alter lipid and lipoprotein levels ( 216 ). These alterations in lipid and lipoprotein levels improve or normalize after treatment and lowering of the elevated cortisol levels ( 208 , 217 ). The effect of Cushing’s syndrome on HDL-C is more variable with increases and decreases in HDL-C both being reported in different studies ( 208 , 209 ). Finally in one small study Lp(a) levels were not altered in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 218 ), while in another small study Lp(a) levels were increased ( 214 ). Most series report improvement in hyperlipidemia with correction of elevated cortisol levels, though a complete normalization of lipid parameters is frequently not achieved ( 208 ). In a longitudinal study, 25 patients had a significant decrease in LDL-C levels after one year of normalization of cortisol levels, but levels still remained higher than healthy controls, albeit similar to BMI-matched controls ( 213 ). Similarly, in a cross-sectional study carried out 5 years after cure or control of pituitary
