The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


levels still remained higher than healthy controls, albeit similar to BMI-matched controls ( 213 ). Similarly, in a cross-sectional study carried out 5 years after cure or control of pituitary Cushing’s disease, levels of total and LDL-C were similar to levels found in BMI-matched controls, but higher than in normal controls ( 214 ). Table 7. Effect of Cushing’s Syndrome on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window Total Cholesterol Increase LDL-C Increase HDL-C Variable Triglycerides Increase Lp (a) No change or increase Apo B Increase Apo A-I Variable In patients without inflammatory disorders, the administration of glucocorticoids has variable effects on the lipid profile; HDL-C levels are typically increased with the magnitude of change in plasma triglyceride and LDL-C varying among studies ( 219 - 221 ). In patients with inflammatory diseases, the effect of glucocorticoids on lipids is confounded by the marked anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids. Inflammation affects lipid and lipoprotein levels and thus reducing inflammation per se can affect the lipid response to glucocorticoid treatment ( 222 ). Similarly, the effect of glucocorticoids on lipids following transplantation or the treatment of other medical conditions is also difficult to interpret due to the simultaneous use of other medications and the response of the underlying medical conditions. Furthermore, the dose and route of administration of the glucocorticoids can be an important variable, as low doses often have minimal effects on triglyceride, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels while high doses tend to increase serum triglyceride, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels. Table 8. Effect of Glucocorticoid Treatment on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window Total Cholesterol Increase LDL-C No Change or Increase HDL-C Increase Triglycerides No Change or Increase Mechanism for the Changes in Lipids and Lipoproteins in Cushing’s Syndrome The mechanisms by which excess glucocorticoids induce changes in lipid and lipoprotein metabolism have not been precisely elucidated and the literature on this topic is often contradictory ( 223 , 224 ). Below we will review some of the potential mechanisms that could account for the observed changes. LDL-C A single study in rats has shown that glucocorticoids decrease hepatic LDL receptor expression ( 225 ). However, this glucocorticoid effect on LDL receptor expression was not seen by Galman and colleagues ( 181 ). Intriguingly, Galman and colleagues reported that ACTH stimulation of the adrenals did decrease the expression of both hepatic LDL receptors and SR-B1 receptors, suggesting that hormones
