The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


colleagues ( 181 ). Intriguingly, Galman and colleagues reported that ACTH stimulation of the adrenals did decrease the expression of both hepatic LDL receptors and SR-B1 receptors, suggesting that hormones other than glucocorticoids might have effects on liver receptors ( 226 ). Whether this plays a role in the increase in plasma LDL-C levels seen in some individuals with Cushing’s syndrome is unknown. TRIGLYCERIDES Glucocorticoid administration stimulates hepatic fatty acid synthesis by increasing the activity of acetyl CoA carboxylase and fatty acid synthesis ( 223 , 227 - 230 ). In addition, glucocorticoids also stimulate the enzymes required for the synthesis of triglyceride in the liver ( 231 - 233 ). The increase in hepatic triglyceride levels leads to the decreased degradation of Apo B and an increase in the formation and secretion of VLDL ( 223 , 224 , 230 , 234 - 236 ). Moreover, in patients with Cushing’s syndrome VLDL production rates are increased, while VLDL clearance is not altered, indicating that hepatic overproduction of VLDL accounts for the increase in serum triglyceride levels ( 217 ). This increase in VLDL production could also contribute to the increase in LDL-C levels in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 217 ). In addition to glucocorticoids increasing hepatic fatty acid synthesis, in acute experimental models, glucocorticoids also increase adipose tissue lipolysis resulting in an increase in circulating free fatty acid levels ( 223 , 224 , 237 - 243 ). Glucocorticoids increase the expression of adipose tissue triglyceride lipase and hormone sensitive lipase, two of the key enzymes that mediate the breakdown of triglycerides into free fatty acids in adipose tissue ( 238 , 241 , 244 , 245 ). Furthermore, glucocorticoids also stimulate adipose tissue lipolysis by increasing cAMP levels, which stimulates the activation of protein kinase A (PKA) leading to the phosphorylation of hormone sensitive lipase and perilipin ( 237 , 241 ). However, studies have shown that chronic elevations in glucocorticoids do not increase adipose tissue lipolysis; thus it is not clear whether increased transport of fatty acids from adipose tissue to liver contributes to the chronic increased formation and secretion of VLDL by the liver ( 224 , 246 , 247 ) HDL-C Studies have shown that glucocorticoids increase the synthesis and secretion of Apo A-I by direct effects on the Apo A-I promoter that are mediated via the glucocorticoid receptor ( 248 , 249 ).
