The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


that glucocorticoids increase the synthesis and secretion of Apo A-I by direct effects on the Apo A-I promoter that are mediated via the glucocorticoid receptor ( 248 , 249 ). The increased production of Apo A-I could lead to an increase in HDL-C. Furthermore, glucocorticoids decrease hepatic lipase activity and increase LCAT activity, which could also contribute to an increase in HDL-C levels ( 250 ). Risk of Cardiovascular Disease Patients with Cushing’s syndrome have a higher mortality rate than age and gender matched controls, which is mainly due to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease ( 251 - 254 ). Notably this increased mortality risk remains even after remission of Cushing’s syndrome, but is reduced compared to persistent disease ( 254 , 255 ). Furthermore, studies have shown that the hazard ratio for myocardial infarctions was 3.7 and for strokes was 2.0 in patients with Cushing’s syndrome ( 256 ). Moreover, patients with Cushing’s syndrome have an increase in carotid intima-media thickness, which persists after remission of the disease ( 213 , 214 , 257 - 259 ). Additionally, coronary artery calcium, a marker of atherosclerosis, is also increased in patients with Cushing’s syndrome and also persists after disease remission ( 260 , 261 ). Importantly, iatrogenic Cushing’s syndrome also increases the risk for cardiovascular disease ( 262 - 265 ). Thus, it is quite clear that Cushing’s syndrome increases the risk and occurrence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. It is likely that the dyslipidemia that accompanies Cushing’s syndrome contributes to the increase in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, but it must be recognized that Cushing’s syndrome also induces other abnormalities that are highly associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease such as central obesity, diabetes, insulin resistance, hypercoagulability, and hypertension ( 266 , 267 ). It is therefore likely that the increase in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease seen in patients with Cushing’s syndrome is multifactorial. Because of an increased risk of cardiovascular disease the Endocrine Society recommends that “in adults with persistent endogenous Cushing syndrome, we suggest statin therapy, as adjunct to lifestyle modification, to reduce CV risk irrespective of the CV risk score” with a goal LDL-C < 70mg/dL ( 268 ). Additionally, the Endocrine Society recommends “In adults with cured Cushing syndrome, we advise the approach to CV risk assessment and treatment be the same as in the general population” ( 268 ). Effect of Drugs Used to
