The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


with cured Cushing syndrome, we advise the approach to CV risk assessment and treatment be the same as in the general population” ( 268 ). Effect of Drugs Used to Treat Cushing’s Syndrome on Lipid Levels Ketoconazole is used to treat patients with Cushing’s syndrome. It is an anti-fungal imidazole derivative that blocks several steps in cortisol biosynthesis thereby lowering serum cortisol levels. However, ketoconazole is also an inhibitor of cholesterol biosynthesis, acting directly by blocking the conversion of methyl sterols to cholesterol and indirectly by suppressing cholesterol synthesis via feedback inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase by sterol intermediates ( 269 , 270 ). In the past, ketoconazole had been used to treat patients with familial hypercholesterolemia before the widespread use of statins, as it reduced total, intermediate density cholesterol, LDL-C, and apo B levels by approximately 25% ( 271 ). Thus, its use to control hypercortisolism may have a beneficial effect on lipid and lipoprotein levels. Levoketoconazole, also decreases total cholesterol and LDL-C levels by approximately 25% and slightly increases HDL-C levels ( 272 ). It is important to recognize that ketoconazole and levoketoconazole also interfere with the metabolism of many drugs through the inhibition of several hepatic P450 enzymes. Simvastatin, lovastatin, and atorvastatin are all metabolized by cytochrome P450 CYP3A4, and thus, their plasma concentrations and risk of myotoxicity are greatly increased with concomitant ketoconazole therapy ( 273 ). Pravastatin, pitavastatin, and rosuvastatin are preferable as their plasma concentrations are not significantly increased by CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 273 ) . Mitotane is used for treatment of adrenal carcinoma or intractable Cushing’s disease and results in adrenocortical atrophy and necrosis and inhibits steroidogenesis. Mitotane raises circulating cholesterol, LDL-C, Apo B, and HDL-C levels ( 274 - 276 ). Changes in triglyceride levels are variable ( 276 ). In one report no changes Lp(a) levels were observed ( 274 ). Mitotane increases HMGCoA reductase activity, which may contribute to the increase in LDL-C ( 277 ). The increase in LDL-C levels has been shown to be decreased by treatment with statins ( 274 , 276 ). Because mitotane induces CYP3A4 activity one should use a statin that is not metabolized by this enzyme (for example pravastatin or rosuvastatin) ( 276 ). In a case report mitotane increased LDL-C levels as high as 300mg/dl ( 278 ). Mifepristone, a potent antagonist of glucocorticoid and progesterone receptors, lowers HDL-C and Apo AI levels
