The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


In a case report mitotane increased LDL-C levels as high as 300mg/dl ( 278 ). Mifepristone, a potent antagonist of glucocorticoid and progesterone receptors, lowers HDL-C and Apo AI levels ( 279 ). The mechanism for this decrease in HDL-C is unknown. In a small study short-term administration of mifepristone reduced serum triglyceride levels, which correlated with increases in adipose tissue lipoprotein lipase activity ( 280 ). Pasireotide is a somatostatin analogue and in patients with Cushing’s syndrome has been shown to decrease total cholesterol and LDL-C levels ( 281 - 283 ). In some studies triglyceride levels were also decreased ( 282 ). TESTOSTERONE Effect of Testosterone on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels ENDOGENOUS TESTOSTERONE LEVELS Numerous observational (epidemiological) studies have shown that serum testosterone levels directly correlate with HDL-C and Apo A-I levels (i.e. subjects with low serum testosterone levels have lower HDL-C and Apo A-I levels) ( 284 - 290 ). Moreover, low serum testosterone levels are inversely correlated with total cholesterol, LDL-C, Apo B, and triglyceride levels (i.e. subjects with low testosterone levels have higher total cholesterol, LDL-C, Apo B, and triglycerides) ( 285 , 289 - 291 ). Thus, individuals with low serum testosterone levels have a pro-atherogenic lipoprotein pattern with low HDL-C levels and high triglyceride and LDL-C levels. Not unexpectedly, given the low HDL-C levels and high triglyceride levels, individuals with low serum testosterone levels are more likely to have the metabolic syndrome ( 290 , 292 , 293 ). It should be recognized that these associations do not necessarily imply that the low serum testosterone levels are causative. For example, it is likely that obesity and related metabolic abnormalities, such as type 2 diabetes, lead to both the abnormal lipid pattern and the low serum testosterone levels. Indeed, obesity is associated with low testosterone and weight loss restores testosterone levels ( 293 - 297 ). Thus, observational studies may be confounded. Table 9. Correlation of Testosterone Levels with Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window HDL-C Positive (low T = lower) LDL-C Negative (low T = higher) Triglycerides Negative (low T = higher) Non-HDL-C Negative (low T = higher) Lp(a) Negative (low T = higher) ANDROGEN DEPRIVATION THERAPY Studies of the effect of androgen deprivation therapy not only constitute a clinically relevant state but also provide an alternative approach to understanding the effects of low testosterone levels on lipid and lipoprotein levels.
