The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


of androgen deprivation therapy not only constitute a clinically relevant state but also provide an alternative approach to understanding the effects of low testosterone levels on lipid and lipoprotein levels. In contrast to the associations in observational studies, most studies of androgen deprivation therapy have shown an increase in plasma HDL-C and Apo A-I levels ( 298 - 305 ). This increase occurs very rapidly within 2 weeks of lowering serum testosterone levels ( 298 ). Furthermore, this increase in HDL-C is inhibited if one simultaneously administers testosterone demonstrating that this increase is due to the suppression of testosterone levels ( 303 ). In addition, androgen deprivation therapy is also associated with an elevation of LDL-C, non-HDL-C, Lp(a), and triglyceride levels ( 299 - 302 , 304 , 306 - 309 ). The increase of Lp(a) is notable as the metabolism of Lp(a) often does not parallel the metabolism of LDL. Table 10. Effect of Androgen Deprivation Therapy on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window HDL-C Increase LDL-C Increase Triglycerides Increase Non-HDL-C Increase Lp(a) Increase TESTOSTERONE TREATMENT There have been several meta-analyses that have examined the effect of testosterone treatment on lipid and lipoprotein levels but the results have been variable. Baseline differences, type of therapy, and duration of therapy may contribute to the differing results. A meta-analysis by Whitsel and colleagues demonstrated that total cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels decreased after intramuscular testosterone treatment, but triglyceride levels did not change ( 310 ). A meta-analysis by Isidori also demonstrated a decrease in HDL-C levels, but found no change in LDL-C with testosterone treatment (both intramuscular and transcutaneous ) ( 311 ) . Similarly, a meta-analysis by Fernández-Balsells and colleagues demonstrated a decrease in HDL-C levels but no change in LDL-C or triglyceride levels with testosterone treatment (both intramuscular and transcutaneous administration ) ( 312 ). A meta-analysis by Haddad et al failed to demonstrate any significant changes in HDL-C, LDL-C, or triglyceride levels ( 313 ). A recent meta-analysis by Corona and colleagues did not find changes in HDL-C levels but reported small decreases in total cholesterol and triglycerides ( 314 ). A meta-analysis of testosterone replacement therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes found a decrease in triglycerides, total cholesterol, and LDL-C and an increase in HDL-C ( 315 ). This improvement in lipid parameters could be due to decreases in body weight, glycemic control, and
