The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


in triglycerides, total cholesterol, and LDL-C and an increase in HDL-C ( 315 ). This improvement in lipid parameters could be due to decreases in body weight, glycemic control, and insulin resistance. Finally, a non-randomized long term trial (8 years) of intramuscular testosterone therapy in patients with pre-diabetes resulted in a decrease in body weight and a decrease in A1c that was accompanied by decreases in LDL and non-HDL-C and triglyceride levels and increases in HDL-C levels compared to an untreated comparison group suggesting that long-term therapy might be beneficial on lipids by effecting body weight and glucose homeostasis ( 316 ). The reason for the differences between these meta-analyses is likely due to the fact that the changes in lipid and lipoprotein levels induced by testosterone treatment are relatively small and variable depending upon the patient population studied, the route and dose of testosterone administration, the duration of therapy, the specific testosterone preparation (whether or not it can undergo aromatization to estrogens), and perhaps other unrecognized factors. For example, the reductions in HDL-C appear to be greater in patients whose baseline HDL-C levels are high ( 311 , 312 ). Additionally, transdermal testosterone treatment appears to have less effect on HDL-C levels than intramuscular administration ( 317 ). High dose testosterone treatment appears to more consistently lower HDL-C levels than does low dose treatment ( 318 ). For example, testosterone enanthate 200mg IM every week used in a contraception study resulted in a relatively robust 13% decrease in HDL-C levels ( 319 ). Similarly, raising serum testosterone levels to higher levels produces greater decreases in LDL-C levels ( 318 ). Finally, using testosterone preparations that are not converted to estrogens or simultaneously blocking aromatization can lead to more profound decreases in HDL-C and LDL-C levels, which can be attributed to estrogens having effects on lipid and lipoprotein levels that counterbalance the effects of androgens (estrogens increase HDL-C and decrease LDL-C) ( 320 , 321 ). The important clinical point is that in the typical androgen deficient patients that we treat with the usual testosterone therapy there will only be a modest or no changes in plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels. The minimal effect of testosterone therapy was clearly demonstrated in a large randomized double-blind trial of 788 males over the age of 65 with low testosterone levels who were treated with either testosterone gel to normalize testosterone levels or
