The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


in a large randomized double-blind trial of 788 males over the age of 65 with low testosterone levels who were treated with either testosterone gel to normalize testosterone levels or placebo for 1 year ( 322 ). In this trial HDL-C (adjusted mean difference, -2.0 mg/dL; P < 0.001), and LDL-C were both slightly decreased (adjusted mean difference, -2.3 mg/dL; P = 0.051) from baseline with no change in triglyceride levels in the testosterone treated individuals. While treatment of typical older hypogonadal men with testosterone therapy has only modest to no effects on plasma lipids and lipoproteins, the use of high dose androgenic steroids in young men for the purpose of increasing muscle mass and strength can have profound effects. In a study by Webb and colleagues of 14 individuals taking high dose androgenic steroids, HDL-C levels were markedly reduced to 29mg/dl, which was less than 50% of the mean HDL-C when exogenous steroids were not used (61mg/dl) ( 323 ). Additionally in these individuals LDL-C levels were also higher on androgenic steroids (150mg/dl) than off of androgenic steroids (125mg/dl) ( 323 ). Similarly, Hurley and colleagues demonstrated that androgen use by eight bodybuilders and four powerlifters lowered HDL-C levels by 55% and raised LDL-C levels by 61% ( 324 ). In a double blind cross-over study anabolic steroids, which may not have androgenic effects, induced a 25-27% decrease in HDL-C levels, which returned towards normal 6 weeks after cessation of drug use ( 325 ). Thus, if one sees an athletic male with unexpectedly low HDL-C levels one should suspect androgen and/or anabolic steroid use, which is often obtained as a dietary supplement or as a pharmaceutical from an unregulated source. There are a number of potential explanations why the changes in lipid and lipoprotein levels are greater in athletes using androgenic steroids. First, the doses used by the athletes are much higher than used in typical testosterone replacement. Second, the androgenic steroids used are often different and more potent (for example nandrolone-decanoate and oxandrolone). Often the compounds used are not converted to estrogen by aromatase and therefore their effects on serum lipid levels will not be counterbalanced by estrogen formation [265, 272]. Third, aromatase inhibitors are sometimes used simultaneously in combination with the androgenic steroids. Lastly, young athletes are often lean and have little adipose tissue and thus low aromatase activity. There can be individual patient variation in
