The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


simultaneously in combination with the androgenic steroids. Lastly, young athletes are often lean and have little adipose tissue and thus low aromatase activity. There can be individual patient variation in aromatase activity with obese older individuals having increased aromatase activity compared to young athletic individuals ( 326 ). As noted earlier, the conversion of testosterone to estrogens by aromatase may blunt the effects of testosterone as estrogens will increase HDL-C levels and decrease LDL-C levels. Together it is likely that these factors account for the more robust changes in lipids and lipoprotein levels induced by androgens in young athletes. TRANSGENDER MALES Testosterone therapy in transmen results in an increase in LDL-C levels and a decrease in HDL-C levels with some studies also showing an increase in triglyceride levels ( 327 - 331 ). In transmale adolescents treated with testosterone LDL-C levels increased and HDL-C levels decreased compared to cisgender females ( 332 ). These changes are likely due to the combination of an increase in testosterone and a decrease in estrogen. LIPOPROTEIN (a) There is a trend towards a higher incidence of clinically significant elevations in Lp(a) levels in men with low testosterone levels ( 333 ). Additionally, reductions in serum testosterone levels by orchiectomy or treatment with GnRH antagonists results in an increase in Lp(a) levels ( 305 , 334 ). Conversely, several studies have shown that testosterone administration decreases Lp(a) levels and the effect is more robust in individuals who have high baseline Lp(a) levels ( 319 , 335 , 336 ). Moreover, it has been shown that simultaneously administering testosterone with an aromatase inhibitor does not markedly reduce the ability of testosterone to decrease Lp(a) levels, indicating that the conversion of testosterone to estrogens does not account for this effect suggesting a direct action of testosterone ( 335 ). Lp(a) is a pro-atherogenic lipoprotein so testosterone induced decreases should be beneficial. SUMMARY The most consistent effects of androgen therapy on lipid and lipoprotein levels are to decrease HDL-C and Lp(a) levels. These effects are most apparent with high dose testosterone therapy. The decreases in HDL-C and Lp(a) levels with testosterone therapy are consistent with the increases seen with androgen deprivation therapy. However, both types of treatment result in changes that are the opposite of those seen in the observational studies, suggesting that the observational studies are confounded. However, high potency androgen therapy in young healthy men tends
