The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


in changes that are the opposite of those seen in the observational studies, suggesting that the observational studies are confounded. However, high potency androgen therapy in young healthy men tends to increase LDL-C levels and markedly decrease HDL-C levels ( 337 ). Table 11. Effect of Testosterone Therapy on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window HDL-C Decreased or No Change LDL-C Decrease Triglycerides No consistent change Lp(a) Decrease Mechanism for the Testosterone Induced Lipid and Lipoprotein Changes HDL-C The decrease in HDL-C levels with testosterone administration has been attributed to increases in the expression of SR-B1 in the liver and increases in plasma hepatic lipase activity. In Hep G2 cells, the addition of testosterone increased the mRNA and protein levels of SR-B1 and hepatic lipase but had no effect on the expression of Apo A-I or ABCA1 ( 338 ). Moreover, androgen administration increased plasma hepatic lipase activity but had little effect on lipoprotein lipase ( 320 , 339 - 342 ). An increase in SR-B1 in the liver will facilitate the transfer of cholesterol from HDL particles into the hepatocyte, decreasing plasma HDL-C levels ( 115 ). An increase in hepatic lipase activity will increase the hydrolysis of triglycerides and phospholipase on HDL, resulting in the formation of smaller HDL particles, the release of Apo A-I, and increased Apo A-I degradation leading to a decrease in plasma HDL levels ( 115 ). Thus, the increase in SR-B1 and hepatic lipase induced by androgens could account for the decrease in HDL-C levels seen with testosterone treatment. There is the potential that the increase in SR-B1 is protective in atherosclerosis as it enhances reverse cholesterol transport from HDL ( 115 ). LDL-C The mechanism by which testosterone therapy might affect LDL-C levels is uncertain. It has been shown that testosterone can antagonize the ability of estrogens to stimulate LDL receptor expression in the liver, which could lead to a decrease in hepatic LDL receptors and an increase in plasma LDL-C levels ( 343 ). LIPOPROTEIN (a) The mechanism by which testosterone treatment lowers Lp(a) levels is unknown. Risk of Cardiovascular Disease In the Endocrinology of Male Reproduction section of Endotext the chapter by Yeap and Dwivedi (“Androgens and Cardiovascular Disease in Men”), extensively reviews the literature on the linkage of testosterone and cardiovascular disease ( 344 ). Therefore, we will only briefly summarize the relevant information. ENDOGENOUS TESTOSTERONE LEVELS
