The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


Disease in Men”), extensively reviews the literature on the linkage of testosterone and cardiovascular disease ( 344 ). Therefore, we will only briefly summarize the relevant information. ENDOGENOUS TESTOSTERONE LEVELS There have been numerous cross-sectional studies of testosterone levels in patients with coronary artery disease vs. controls and the results have varied ( 344 ). Some studies have shown no association while other studies have found low testosterone levels in patients with coronary artery disease. The majority of prospective studies have shown that cardiovascular disease occurs more frequently in subjects with low testosterone levels. Whether the low testosterone is causative or a biomarker of poor cardiovascular health (e.g., obesity, metabolic syndrome, diabetes) cannot be determined from these types of observational studies. ANDROGEN DEPRIVATION THERAPY In a meta-analysis by Zhao and colleagues of population-based observational studies comparing androgen deprivation therapy in patients with prostate cancer vs. controls with prostate cancer, six studies were identified with a total of 129,802 androgen deprivation therapy patients and 165,605 controls ( 345 ). In this analysis, cardiovascular disease was increased by 10% and cardiovascular mortality by 17% in the androgen deprivation therapy patients. In a meta-analysis by Carneiro and colleagues of 126,898 prostate cancer patients in four cohort studies and 10,760 prostate cancer patients in nine randomized controlled trials, these authors found that cardiovascular events were increased two fold in the androgen deprivation groups ( 346 ). When only the randomized trials were analyzed, the relative risk was increased 1.55-fold in the androgen deprivation patients. In contrast, a meta-analysis by Nguyen and colleagues of 8 randomized trials with 4141 patients did not find an increased risk of cardiovascular disease ( 347 ). Finally, a meta-analysis by Bosco of eight observational studies reported a relative risk of 1.57 for fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease in patients with prostate cancer treated with GnRH agonists ( 348 ). These and other results suggest that the risk of cardiovascular disease is increased in men undergoing androgen deprivation therapy, despite the increase in HDL-C. TESTOSTERONE TREATMENT There have been a large number of observational studies of the risk of cardiovascular disease in men treated with testosterone replacement and the results have been inconsistent, with some studies showing that testosterone increases the risk while other studies have shown no increase in risk ( 344 ). Interestingly, in a very large retrospective study of 544,115 testosterone treated patients it was reported that
