The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


354 ), most meta-analyses of randomized clinical trials of testosterone therapy have not demonstrated a statistically significant difference in the occurrence of cardiovascular events ( 312 , 313 , 355 - 362 ). Of note, one meta-analysis explored the effect of the route of administration of testosterone and reported that oral testosterone treatment significantly increased cardiovascular risk (RR = 2.20), while neither intramuscular nor transcutaneous delivery (gel or patch) significantly altered cardiovascular risk ( 355 ). To definitively determine the effect of testosterone replacement therapy on cardiovascular disease will require a large randomized outcome trial similar to the Women’s Health Initiative. The TRAVERSE study is a large randomized trial designed to definitively answer this crucial question ( 363 ) SUMMARY While the data suggests that androgen deprivation therapy increases the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, the effect of testosterone administration is unclear. FEMALE SEX STEROID HORMONES Effect of Female Sex Steroid Hormone on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels PREMENOPAUSAL WOMEN The plasma lipid profile of premenopausal women is less pro-atherogenic than the lipid profile in men ( 364 - 367 ). Specifically, HDL-C levels are increased (approximately 10mg/dl higher in women), while LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels are slightly lower compared to male values ( 364 - 367 ). Additionally plasma triglyceride levels are also decreased and the average size of LDL particles is increased in premenopausal women compared to men ( 364 - 367 ). Notably most of these differences emerge during puberty. Prior to puberty the lipid profiles of girls and boys are very similar but during puberty HDL-C levels in boys decrease while in girls the HDL-C levels do not change ( 364 - 367 ). Additionally, during puberty triglyceride levels increase in boys with no change in triglyceride levels occurring in girls. LDL-C levels are similar in boys and girls before and during puberty but after age 20 LDL-C increase in both males and females but the increase is greater in males resulting in a modest difference in LDL-C levels between the sexes ( 364 - 367 ). Table 12. Comparison of Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Premenopausal Women Compared to Men View in own window Lipids/Lipoprotein Premenopausal Women Compared to Men LDL-C Lower HDL-C Higher Triglycerides Lower Non-HDL-C Lower POSTMENOPAUSAL WOMEN The changes in lipids and lipoproteins that occur during menopause are relatively small and therefore the results reported in the literature are variable ( 364 -
