The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


Non-HDL-C Lower POSTMENOPAUSAL WOMEN The changes in lipids and lipoproteins that occur during menopause are relatively small and therefore the results reported in the literature are variable ( 364 - 367 ). Cross-sectional studies tend to show a greater shift towards a pro-atherogenic lipid profile after the menopause whereas in longitudinal studies the changes are smaller ( 364 - 367 ). In post-menopausal women increases in LDL-C are reported in most, but not all studies, and the composition of LDL shifts towards smaller dense LDL particles ( 364 - 367 ). HDL-C levels tend to be stable but some studies have reported small decreases ( 364 - 367 ). Following surgical menopause the above changes tend to be more rapid and robust and in this setting Lp(a) levels have been reported to increase; however, during natural menopause the change in Lp(a) is very modest ( 368 , 369 ). It is important to recognize that during menopause there are changes in factors in addition to the loss of sex steroid hormones that can alter lipid and lipoprotein levels. Menopause is associated with increases in total and central body fat and a decrease in insulin sensitivity, which are well recognized to affect lipid and lipoprotein metabolism ( 37 ). Table 13. Effects of Menopause on Lipid and Lipoproteins View in own window Lipids/Lipoproteins Postmenopausal vs Premenopausal LDL-C Increase HDL-C No change or small decrease Lp(a) No change or increase TRANSGENDER FEMALES In a systemic review and meta-analysis it was reported that in male-to-female individuals, serum TG levels were increased without changes in LDL or HDL-C levels ( 329 ). A large observational study of 170 trans females reported an increase in both triglycerides and HDL-C levels ( 330 ) but another study only reported an increase in HDL-C levels ( 331 ). Additional studies measuring changes in lipid levels in transgender females controlling for estrogen dose, preparation and route of administration, use of other gender affirming therapies, and adjusting for baseline lipid levels are required to better define the changes in lipids that occur. ESTROGEN TREATMENT The effects of oral estrogen treatment on lipids and lipoproteins have been recognized for many years ( 364 , 366 , 370 , 371 ). Estrogen administration increases HDL-C levels by 5-15% and decreases LDL-C levels by 5-20% ( 364 , 366 , 370 , 371 ). In addition, estrogens also increase triglycerides but in
