The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


statins are more effective in lowering LDL-C levels and have a similar effect on HDL-C as hormone replacement therapy. While statins lower triglyceride levels, hormone replacement therapy increases triglycerides. Of note, hormone replacement therapy markedly lowers Lp(a) levels whereas statin treatment has no effect, on this highly atherogenic particle. Table 16. Effect of Hormone Replacement Therapy vs. Statin Treatment on Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels View in own window Lipids/Lipoproteins Hormone Replacement Simvastatin Total cholesterol 14% decrease 26% decrease LDL-C 24% decrease 36% decrease HDL-C 7% increase 7% increase Triglycerides 29% increase 14% decrease Lp(a) 27% decrease 1% increase Considerable variation is seen in the response to hormone replacement therapy. This is likely accounted for by different preparations used, route of administration, dosing regimen (cyclic vs. continuous), difference in hormone status prior to treatment, baseline lipid levels, dietary differences, the presence or absence of other metabolic abnormalities, genetic background, etc. ( 364 , 370 , 371 ). The studies by Tsuda and colleagues showing that the Apo E phenotype influences the response of LDL to hormonal therapy provide an example of how genetic background can influence response ( 377 ). Women with the E2/E2 or E2/E3 genotype demonstrated the largest LDL-C decreases while women with the E4/E4 or E4/E3 genotype had only a small change in LDL-C levels in response to hormonal replacement therapy. Another example of the role of genetics are studies showing that polymorphisms of the estrogen receptor-alpha gene may be associated with an augmented HDL-C rise with estrogen therapy ( 378 ). It is important to note that women who receive cyclic combined therapy (estrogen and progesterone) may have fluctuations in lipoprotein concentrations depending upon the phase of the cycle and it is therefore important to consistently measure lipids during the same hormonal phase, especially when considering starting medications for hyperlipidemia. CONTRACEPTIVES The effect of contraceptives on lipid levels is discussed in the Endotext chapter “Reproductive Health and Its Impact On Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females” ( 379 ). Table 17 taken from that chapter summarizes the effect of various contraceptives on lipid levels. Table 17. The Effects of Contraceptive Methods on Lipids and Lipoproteins View in own window Contraceptive Method LDL-C HDL-C TG Comments Combined Oral Contraceptive Pill · Estrogen Decrease Increase Increase For OCPs with an identical dose of estrogen, the choice and dose of the progestin component may affect net lipid changes
