The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


Combined Oral Contraceptive Pill · Estrogen Decrease Increase Increase For OCPs with an identical dose of estrogen, the choice and dose of the progestin component may affect net lipid changes · Progestin Increase Decrease Decrease Transdermal Patch Decrease Increase Increase Vaginal Ring --- --- Increase DMPA Increase Decrease Neutral DMPA = Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate POLYCYSTIC OVARY SYNDROME (PCOS) Women with PCOS characteristically have low HDL-C levels and increased plasma triglyceride levels ( 380 , 381 ). Additionally, LDL-C and non-HDL-C levels are also increased with the LDL being predominantly small dense LDL ( 380 , 381 ). A meta-analysis of 24 studies reported that in women with PCOS triglyceride levels were increased by 26mg/dl, LDL-C by 12mg/dl, non-HDL-C by 19mg/dl and HDL-C was decreased by 6mg/dl ( 382 ). The prevalence of elevated Lp(a) levels is also increased in women with PCOS ( 380 , 381 ). It should be noted that the lipid changes in women with PCOS are observed even when the women are not overweight or obese ( 380 , 381 ). In studies of age and weight matched women, the women with PCOS still have lower HDL-C levels and increased triglycerides, LDL-C, and non-HDL-C levels compared to the controls ( 380 , 381 ). The lipid abnormalities in PCOS are likely multifactorial with increases in androgens, decreases in estrogens, obesity, alterations in fat location, insulin resistance, alterations in glucose homeostasis, genetics, and perhaps other factors all contributing to the lipid abnormalities ( 380 , 381 ). Serum PCSK9 concentrations were higher in PCOS patients than normal controls, which could contribute to the increase in LDL-C levels ( 383 ). Angiopoietin-like protein 3 levels were increased in PCOS and could contribute to the increase in triglyceride levels ( 384 ). Table 18. Lipid and Lipoprotein Levels in Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome View in own window LDL-C Increase HDL-C Decrease Triglycerides Increase Non-HDL-C Increase Lp(a) Increase Mechanisms for the Female Sex Steroid Induced Lipid and Lipoprotein Changes ESTROGENS There are several effects of estrogen that could lead to an increase in HDL-C levels. First, studies have shown that estrogens stimulate the expression of Apo A-I, which will lead to an increased synthesis of Apo A-I and the increased formation of HDL ( 366 , 385 - 389 ). Second, estrogen therapy decreases hepatic lipase activity, which will decrease the hydrolysis of triglyceride and phospholipids on HDL particles, which could
