The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


of HDL ( 366 , 385 - 389 ). Second, estrogen therapy decreases hepatic lipase activity, which will decrease the hydrolysis of triglyceride and phospholipids on HDL particles, which could potentially result in a decrease in the catabolism of HDL ( 390 - 392 ). Finally, estrogens suppress the expression of SR-B1 in the liver, which will decrease the transfer of cholesterol from HDL particles into the hepatocyte increasing plasma HDL-C levels ( 393 ). Based on kinetic studies it is likely that the predominant effect of estrogens is to increase the production of HDL, which is mediated by an increase in Apo A-I production ( 366 , 385 - 389 ). The net result may be protective from atherosclerosis. The decrease in LDL-C induced by estrogen treatment is accounted for by an increase in LDL clearance ( 366 , 394 - 397 ). Studies have shown that estrogens increase the expression of hepatic LDL receptors ( 398 - 401 ). Additionally, estrogens reduce PCSK9 levels, which would decrease the degradation of LDL receptors ( 402 - 404 ). Together, this would increase the number of hepatic LDL receptors leading to the accelerated clearance of LDL and a reduction in plasma LDL-C levels. The increase in plasma triglyceride levels induced by estrogen treatment is due to the increased production and secretion of VLDL particles ( 366 , 388 , 397 , 405 - 407 ). The mechanism by which estrogens decrease Lp(a) levels is unknown. PROGESTINS Many of the adverse effects of progestins on lipid and lipoproteins, such as decreasing HDL-C levels, are thought to be due to activation of the androgen receptor (i.e. androgenic actions) ( 408 ). The considerable variation of progestins in influencing lipid and lipoprotein metabolism are related to their androgenic potency. For detailed information on the effect of testosterone and other androgens on lipid and lipoprotein metabolism see the section above on the mechanism for the testosterone induced lipid and lipoprotein changes. Risk of Cardiovascular Disease PREMENOPAUSAL WOMEN It has been recognized for many years that the risk of cardiovascular disease in premenopausal women is very low and substantially lower than in men of similar age ( 409 - 411 ). There is an approximate 10-year delay in the development of cardiovascular disease in women compared to men. The relative contribution of the less pro-atherogenic lipid profile in women to this sex difference in cardiovascular
