The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


4.1 years. As expected, LDL-C levels were decreased by 11% and HDL-C levels were increased by 10% in the hormone treated group. Despite these changes, there were no significant differences between the groups in the primary outcome (nonfatal myocardial infarction or CHD death) or in any of the secondary cardiovascular outcomes (coronary revascularization, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, resuscitated cardiac arrest, stroke or transient ischemic attack, and peripheral arterial disease). Interestingly, there were more CHD events in the hormone group in year 1 but fewer in years 4 and 5 compared to the placebo group. An unblinded extension of the HERS trial for an additional 2.7 years (HERSII) found that the lower rates of CHD events among women in the hormone group in the final years of HERS did not persist during additional years of follow-up. After 6.8 years, hormone therapy did not reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in women with pre-existing cardiovascular disease ( 428 ). As expected, hormone therapy decreased Lp(a) levels and in a post hoc analysis there was a suggestion that individuals with high baseline Lp(a) levels and individuals who had a robust decrease in Lp(a) with hormone therapy had a reduction in cardiovascular events ( 429 ). Of course, these results are not definitive and suggest the need for further focused trials of hormone therapy in postmenopausal women with elevated Lp(a) levels. Women’s Health Initiative- Estrogen/Progesterone Therapy The Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) examined the effect of hormone replacement therapy in women with and without an intact uterus. The WHI included a randomized primary-prevention trial of conjugated equine estrogens (CEE) (0.625 mg per day) plus continuous medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) (2.5 mg per day) or placebo in 16,608 postmenopausal women with an intact uterus who were 50 to 79 years of age at base line ( 430 ). As expected, hormone therapy lowered LDL-C levels by 12.7% and increased HDL-C levels by 7.3% and triglycerides by 6.9%. Despite these changes, after a mean follow-up of 5.2 years (planned duration, 8.5 years), the data and safety monitoring board recommended terminating the trial because the overall risks exceeded the benefits. Combined hormone therapy was associated with a hazard ratio for nonfatal myocardial infarction or death due to CHD of 1.24 in the hormone treated group. Similar to the HERS trial an increased risk of cardiovascular events was greatest in the first year of hormone therapy (HR 1.81). Women’s
