The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


of 1.24 in the hormone treated group. Similar to the HERS trial an increased risk of cardiovascular events was greatest in the first year of hormone therapy (HR 1.81). Women’s Health Initiative- Estrogen Alone Therapy In women without a uterus, the WHI carried out a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 0.625mg per day of conjugated equine estrogen (CEE) or placebo in 10,739 postmenopausal women, aged 50-79 years of age ( 431 ). As expected, the CEE group demonstrated a significant decrease in LDL-C compared to placebo group (−13.7% vs –1.0%, P<.001) and a much larger increase in HDL-C (15.1% vs 1.1%, P<.001). Additionally, large increases in triglyceride levels were observed in the CEE group (25.0% vs 3.0%, P<.001). After an average follow-up of 6.8 years, the estimated hazard ratio for nonfatal myocardial infarction or CHD death in the CEE vs placebo was 0.91 (0.75-1.12). However, the incidence of stroke was increased by 39% in the CEE group (P=.007). These two initial reports of the results of the WHI coupled with the HERS trial indicated that hormone replacement therapy was not effective in reducing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events in a broad spectrum of postmenopausal women. Women’s Health Initiative- Extension In 2013 a report was published that extended the follow-up of both the estrogen alone and the combined estrogen/progesterone protocols of the WHI to 13 years ( 432 ). It should be noted that after the intervention phase ended only a very small percentage of subjects continued hormonal therapy (<4%). During the cumulative 13-year follow-up, the hazard ratios for nonfatal myocardial infarction or coronary death were 1.09 for CEE plus MPA and 0.94 for CEE alone compared with the placebo groups (both NS). During the 13-year follow-up the hazard ratios for stroke were higher in the hormone therapy groups compared with the placebo groups (HR, 1.16 for CEE plus MPA; HR, 1.15 for CEE alone). Although with cessation of hormonal therapy the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease appeared to diminish, due to the open label nature of this analysis these data are difficult to interpret. Notably, there was no evidence for a “legacy effect” of cardiovascular benefit or harm after discontinuing hormone therapy. Thus, even with longer follow-up hormonal therapy did not demonstrate a reduction in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. The Subject Age or Time Since Menopause Hypothesis The WHI results, coupled with those of the HERS trial, have been translated into a
