The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


a statistically significant decrease in total mortality in both studies combined. In fact, there was a trend towards less harm and/or greater benefit in all major endpoints with decreasing age at treatment onset ( 434 ). The age effect is further supported by a meta-analysis of 23 trials with 39,049 women, which showed that hormone therapy significantly reduced CHD events in younger women (OR 0.68 [confidence interval (C I), 0.48 to 0.96]), but not in older women (OR 1.03 [CI, 0.91 to 1.16]) ( 435 ). A Cochrane meta-analysis also found an increased risk of cardiovascular events in older individuals treated with hormone therapy but those who started hormone therapy less than 10 years after the menopause had a decreased risk of coronary heart disease (RR 0.52, 95% CI 0.29 to 0.96) ( 436 ). Additionally, a more recent randomized trial in 1006 healthy women aged 45-58 who were recently postmenopausal demonstrated that hormonal therapy decreased an end point of death, myocardial infarction, or heart failure by 39% and myocardial infarction by 55% ( 437 ). The more clearly positive results may have been due to inclusion of younger women who were closer to the menopause (average 50 years of age and 0.7 years postmenopausal) than in the WHI study. Taken together, these results suggest that younger women who have recently undergone menopause may have either a decrease or no change in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease when on hormonal therapy. In contrast, hormonal therapy in older women who have been postmenopausal for many years appears to increase the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. A possible explanation for the effect of age and/or time since menopause on the response to hormonal therapy could be the extent of underlying vascular disease ( 438 ). Younger women are more likely to have “healthy” vessels and in these circumstances hormonal therapy is beneficial. In contrast, in older women who may already have underlying atherosclerosis, treatment with hormonal therapy is not beneficial but rather may be harmful. Further support for this hypothesis is provided by subgroup analyses in the WHI showing that women without risk factors for atherosclerosis appear to benefit from hormone therapy ( 439 , 440 ). For example, in women with LDL-C levels less than 130mg/dl or without the metabolic syndrome, hormone therapy is beneficial. However, in women with LDL-C levels greater than 130mg/dl or with the metabolic syndrome, hormone therapy increases the
