The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


less than 130mg/dl or without the metabolic syndrome, hormone therapy is beneficial. However, in women with LDL-C levels greater than 130mg/dl or with the metabolic syndrome, hormone therapy increases the risk of coronary heart disease ( Table 20 ). Furthermore, a high cardiovascular risk score identified women at a higher risk for cardiovascular events with hormone replacement therapy ( 441 ). Table 20. Effect of Baseline Risk Factors on Coronary Heart Disease Risk View in own window Odds Ratio for Hormone Therapy Effect P, interaction LDL-C (mg/dl) <130 0.66 0.03 >130 1.46 LDL/HDL ratio <2.5 0.60 0.002 >2.5 1.73 Metabolic Syndrome No 0.97 0.03 Yes 2.26 Apart from these considerations of age at treatment onset, there appears to be a strong temporal pattern of risk for cardiovascular disease relative to the time course of hormone therapy. In both the HERS and WHI studies an increase in cardiovascular events occurred during the first year of hormone therapy followed by a decrease with continued treatment ( 442 ). Interestingly, a similar temporal pattern was seen in the observational Nurses’ Health Study ( 443 ). One can speculate that the increase in coagulation factors induced by hormone therapy might account for this early increase in cardiovascular events. In a separate but related point, observational studies have shown worse outcomes for women who have stopped hormone therapy vs. those who have continued hormone therapy ( 421 ). There has never been a randomized trial of hormone therapy discontinuation vs. continuation of hormone therapy so in patients doing well on hormone therapy it is unclear whether stopping therapy will markedly affect the risk of cardiovascular disease. EFFECT OF HORMONE THERAPY ON ATHEROSCLEROSIS Given the absence of definitive results in the clinical outcome studies, further insights may be gained by examining studies of anatomical atherosclerotic changes. Several studies have explored the effect of hormonal therapy on the progression of atherosclerosis measured by quantitative coronary angiography, carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT), or coronary calcium scores (CAC). In patients with pre-existing coronary artery disease, hormone replacement therapy did not affect the progression of coronary atherosclerosis or CIMT ( 444 - 447 ). Another study of healthy menopausal women aged 42 to 58 years between 6 and 36 months from last menses without prior CVD events who had a CAC score less than 50 Agatston units reported that CIMT and CAC changes were not significantly different in the hormonal or
