The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


last menses without prior CVD events who had a CAC score less than 50 Agatston units reported that CIMT and CAC changes were not significantly different in the hormonal or placebo groups ( 448 ). In contrast, in one study of women without pre-existing atherosclerotic disease, hormone replacement therapy slowed the rate of progression of CIMT ( 449 ). These observations support the clinical outcome studies that have shown that women with pre-existing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease do not benefit from hormone therapy. In contrast, in women without pre-existing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, hormone therapy may be beneficial or neutral depending upon the particular study. In the WHI estrogen alone trial, coronary artery calcium scores were measured in women between 50-59 years of age at study entry ( 448 ). The mean coronary-artery calcium score after trial completion was lower in women receiving estrogen therapy (83.1A) than in women receiving placebo (123.1A) (P = 0.02). This indicates that calcified-plaque burden in the coronary arteries was lower in younger women assigned to estrogen also supporting the hypothesis that estrogen therapy reduces the progression of atherosclerosis in women who are recently menopausal and do not have pre-existing atherosclerosis. Hodis and colleagues randomly assigned 643 healthy postmenopausal women who were stratified according to time since menopause (<6 years [early post-menopause ] or ≥10 years [late post-menopause]) to receive either oral 17β-estradiol plus progesterone for 10 days of each 30-day cycle or placebo ( 450 ). In support of the WHI results, in women who were less than 6 years past menopause, the mean CIMT increased by 0.0078 mm per year in the placebo group versus 0.0044 mm per year in the estradiol group (P=0.008) while in women who were 10 or more years past menopause the rate of CIMT progression in the placebo and estradiol groups were similar. Coronary-artery calcium, total stenosis, and plaque did not differ significantly between the placebo group and either early or late postmenopausal group on hormonal therapy. Nevertheless, these observations suggest a difference in response to hormonal replacement therapy depending on duration of time since menopause. In summary, in older women or women with pre-existing atherosclerosis, the data demonstrates that hormone therapy is not beneficial and is likely harmful. In younger women or women without pre-existing atherosclerosis studies suggest that hormone therapy is either modestly beneficial or neutral. ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES A Cochrane review has recently addressed the effect of oral
