The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


younger women or women without pre-existing atherosclerosis studies suggest that hormone therapy is either modestly beneficial or neutral. ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES A Cochrane review has recently addressed the effect of oral contraceptives on atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( 451 ). They reported that oral contraceptive use did not increase the risk of myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke compared with non-users. The risks did not vary according to the generation of progestogen or according to progestogen type. However, the risk of myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke appeared to increase with higher doses of estrogen. The risk of myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke was only increased in women using oral contraceptives containing ≥ 50 µg of estrogen. In another meta-analysis of progesterone only contraceptives there did not appear to be an increase in the risk of myocardial infarctions ( 452 ). Additionally, another recent meta-analysis reported an increase in ischemic strokes but no increase in myocardial infarctions with oral contraceptive use ( 453 ). It should be noted that earlier meta-analyses have reported an increased risk of myocardial infarctions and ischemic strokes, which may be related to differences in the composition of the products and doses being used in the past in oral contraceptives ( 454 , 455 ). Thus, oral contraceptives with higher doses of estrogen likely increase cardiovascular disease risk. POLYCYSTIC OVARY SYNDROME (PCOS) A recent meta-analysis of five case-control studies and five cohort studies involving a total of 104,392 subjects found that PCOS was associated with a significant increased risk of cardiovascular disease (OR = 1.30) ( 456 ). Another smaller meta-analysis reported a 2-fold risk of arterial disease for patients with PCOS compared to women without PCOS ( 457 ). In contrast, in a study of cardiovascular events in 309 women with PCOS vs. 343 women without PCOS followed for a mean duration of 23.7 years an increase in cardiovascular disease was not observed ( 458 ). Of note the population of patients with PCOS in this study did not have diabetes or dyslipidemia and their BMI was only slightly greater than the controls (29.4 kg/m2 vs 28.3 kg/m2). In recent reviews it was noted that an increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease in women with PCOS has not been conclusively demonstrated ( 459 , 460 ). It has been proposed that the increased risk of cardiovascular disease in women with PCOS is mainly observed in women who are obese and/or
