The Effect of Endocrine Disorders on Lipids and Lipoproteins
KEYWORDS: levels, pubmed, increase, hormone, patients, therapy, lipid, cardiovascular, ldl-c, risk, lipoprotein, disease, hdl-c, decrease, increased


demonstrated ( 459 , 460 ). It has been proposed that the increased risk of cardiovascular disease in women with PCOS is mainly observed in women who are obese and/or have diabetes ( 461 ). A meta-analysis of studies comparing carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) in individuals with PCOS vs. controls reported that women with PCOS have a higher mean CIMT compared with non-PCOS controls ( 462 ) but not all studies have shown this relationship ( 463 ). Most but not all studies have shown that women with PCOS have higher coronary calcium scores than controls ( 463 - 468 ). In PCOS it is likely that many factors, such as decreased estrogen levels, increased testosterone levels, insulin resistance, hypertension, obesity, increased inflammation, alterations in glucose homeostasis, etc., could contribute to the increased cardiovascular risk in addition to a pro-atherogenic lipid profile and differences in the prevalence of various cardiovascular risk factors in patients with PCOS could account for the variable risk of cardiovascular events. MANAGEMENT GUIDELINES In 2020 the Endocrine Society published guidelines on the treatment of lipid disorders in patients with endocrine disorders ( 268 ). These recommendations are summarized in table 21 . Table 21. Endocrine Society Guidelines for the Management of Lipids in Patients with Endocrine Diseases View in own window GH Deficiency Obtain a lipid profile at diagnosis GH deficiency associated with hypopituitarism Assess and treat lipids and other cardiovascular risk factors Acromegaly Measure lipid profile before and after treatment of GH excess Hypothyroidism Suggest against treating hyperlipidemia until the patient is euthyroid Subclinical hypothyroidism (TSH <10 mIU/L) Suggest considering thyroxine treatment to reduce LDL-C levels Hyperthyroid Re-evaluate lipids after the patient becomes euthyroid Cushing’s syndrome Monitor the lipid profile In adults with persistent endogenous Cushing syndrome, we suggest statin therapy (LDL-C > 70mg/dL), to reduce ASCVD risk, irrespective of the risk score Hypogonadism Testosterone as symptomatically indicated, and not to improve dyslipidemia or ASCVD risk. Polycystic ovary syndrome Obtaining a fasting lipid panel at diagnosis to assess ASCVD risk Menopause and hormonal replacement Treat dyslipidemia with statin therapy, rather than hormone therapy. In women who enter menopause early (<40 to 45 years old), we recommend assessment and treatment of lipids and other ASCVD risk factors Gender-affirming hormone therapy In transwomen and transmen who have taken or are taking gender-affirming hormone therapy, assess ASCVD risk by guidelines for non-transgender adults GH- Growth Hormone ACKOWLEDGEMENTS The
