RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


Global Health EDCTP3 Joint Undertaking. JWE-E acknowledges funding from the Gates Foundation [INV-005576]. The conclusions and Author summary opinions expressed in this work are those of the author(s) alone and shall not be attributed Why was this study done? to the Foundation. The funding agency had no role in the study design, data curation, analysis, • Despite major progress in expanding access to HIV testing services (HTS) over interpretation, or writing of the manuscript. the past decades, substantial gaps in diagnosis coverage persist, particularly Competing interests: I have read the journal’s among men and key populations in Africa. policy and the authors of this manuscript have the following competing interests: J.W.I-E. • HIV self-testing (HIVST) offers a private, acceptable, and cost-effective option previously served as a guest Academic Editor to overcome persistent barriers to testing access and uptake. for PLOS Medicine and is an editorial board other author declares competing interests. only kit distribution, not actual utilization or user outcomes. Abbreviations: 95%CrI, 95% credible • We aimed to estimate regional and country-specific trends in HIVST uptake, interval; AIS, AIDS Indicator Cluster Surveys; disaggregated by sex and age, and to understand how HIVST kits are BAIS, Botswana AIDS Impact Survey; DHS, AIDS Monitoring; GATHER, Guidelines for strategies. Accurate and Transparent Health Estimates Reporting; HIVST, HIV self-testing; HMC, services; KAIS, Kenya AIDS Indicator Survey; MICS, Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys; PHIA, • We developed a mathematical model to estimate HIVST uptake from 2012 to Population-based HIV Impact Assessments; 2024 among adults aged ≥15 years across Africa. We triangulated two data PLHIV, people living with HIV; RR, rate ratio; PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 2 / 17 USAID, United States Agency for International WPP, World Population Prospects. use and national program data on the number of HIVST kits distributed. Data included 40 surveys from 27 countries and 99 country-years of HIVST program data. • HIVST uptake increased steadily across Africa, with large regional differences: much higher in eastern and southern Africa compared to western and central Africa. • Uptake varied widely by country, reaching 45% in 2024 in Lesotho. Men were slightly more likely than women to have ever self-tested. Compared with 15–24-year-olds, self-testing rates were higher among 25–34-year-olds, followed by 35–49-year-olds and those 50+. Additionally, we estimated that most of dis- tributed HIVST kits were likely used. What do these findings mean? • HIVST is now an important testing modality in Africa,
