RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


those 50+. Additionally, we estimated that most of dis- tributed HIVST kits were likely used. What do these findings mean? • HIVST is now an important testing modality in Africa, with evidence of ris- ing uptake in many countries, especially among men and adults aged 25–34-year-olds. • These patterns suggest HIVST can help close remaining diagnosis gaps. Our findings support continued maintenance and expansion of HIVST within national HTS strategies. • A limitation of this study is the lack of direct data about re-testing rates and frac- tion of kits used. Introduction HIV testing services (HTS) are essential for reaching people living with HIV (PLHIV) who do not know their status and are a critical entry point to both HIV prevention and treatment services. Despite the substantial success scaling-up HTS over the last three decades, gaps in testing coverage remain . HIV self-testing (HIVST), whereby an individual performs a blood-based or oral rapid test and interprets the result on their own in private settings, has been shown to be an important tool that can help address remaining gaps by increasing access to and uptake of HIV testing . Africa remains disproportionately affected by HIV, home to 26 million PLHIV and experiencing an estimated 640,000 new HIV acquisitions in 2023 . To end the HIV epidemic, the Global AIDS Strategy has set targets for 95% of PLHIV to be aware of their status, 95% of diagnosed PLHIV on treatment, and 95% of treated PLHIV to be virally suppressed by 2030 . Countries in eastern and southern Africa are closer (around 93% PLHIV being aware of their status in 2023) to achieving this 95% diag- nosis coverage target, compared to 81% of PLHIV in western and central Africa . Progress toward the first 95 target is hampered by persistent and multifac- eted barriers to HIV testing, often disproportionately impacting adult men and key PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 3 / 17 internalized and anticipated stigma, discrimination, criminalization, punitive and restrictive laws, privacy concerns, gender norms, poverty, and geographical inaccessibility [8–16]. While traditional provider-delivered HTS approaches in antenatal care, outpatient settings and focused community outreach have been impactful, closing the remaining gaps will require a more diverse and expanded package of HTS options, particularly for populations with undiagnosed PLHIV who are not accessing services . HIVST is a safe, acceptable, and discreet HIV testing option to overcome some of the persistent barriers
