RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


options, particularly for populations with undiagnosed PLHIV who are not accessing services . HIVST is a safe, acceptable, and discreet HIV testing option to overcome some of the persistent barriers to service initiatives, the STAR (HIV Self-Test Africa) Initiative launched in 2015 and the ATLAS (Auto Test VIH, Libre d’Accéder à la connaissance de son Statut) launched in 2018, contributed to expanding self-testing and HIV diagnosis in distinct epide- miological contexts . Mathematical modeling and economic evaluations based on these programs demonstrated that HIVST improve treatment coverage, reduce HIV incidence, and is consistently cost-effective . Routinely mon- itoring HIVST uptake and its subsequent effects on strengthening HIV diagnosis is challenging, however. Program data typically capture only the number of HIVST kits distributed, without information on actual use, user characteristics, con- firmed test results, or onward linkage to further testing, treatment, or prevention services. Disclosure of reactive self-test results may not be consistently reported or recorded at the individual or program level. Population-based surveys collect- ing self-reported information on awareness and use of HIVST can be useful to track uptake, but are conducted at 5-year intervals in the best of cases. Consequently, estimates of HIVST uptake remain limited to country-specific, small-scale studies on HIVST trends [24–28]. To improve our understanding of HIVST uptake, we synthesized self-reported HIVST uptake data from population- based surveys and annual self-test kit distribution data across African countries. We developed a hierarchical mathemat- ical model to triangulate these data sources and generate country and regional estimates of HIVST uptake by sex and adult age groups. We also estimated HIVST re-testing rates and the proportion of HIVST kits that were likely used from the model. Methods Data sources We collated data from two sources: (1) nationally representative population-based surveys that included questions on participants’ self-reported previous use of HIVST and (2) country-level HIV testing program data on the annual number of HIVST kits distributed. To identify eligible surveys, we reviewed all publicly available, cross-sectional, population-based surveys from countries across eastern, southern, central, and western Africa conducted between January 2012 and December 2024. The earliest date corresponds to the first survey to include self-reported HIVST uptake information, which was the 2012 Kenya AIDS Indicator Survey (KAIS) . We systematically searched data catalogs (i.e., the Global We identified the surveys with HIVST usage-related items, often measured through the question ‘Have you ever tested yourself for HIV using a self-test kit?’
