RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


searched data catalogs (i.e., the Global We identified the surveys with HIVST usage-related items, often measured through the question ‘Have you ever tested yourself for HIV using a self-test kit?’ (see Table A in S1 Appendix for the list of all survey questions). The following survey Cluster Surveys (MICS), Population-based HIV Impact Assessments (PHIA), Botswana AIDS Impact Survey (BAIS), and KAIS. For each survey, we calculated the sex- and age-stratified proportions of respondents aged ≥15 years who reported ever using an HIVST, applying the survey weights accounting for the multi-stage cluster sampling designs. We collected information on the annual number of HIVST kits distributed between January 2016 and December 2024 from multiple sources: spectrum model files submitted by national HIV programs to UNAIDS for the 2024 national HIV estimates round, WHO/UNAIDS Global AIDS Monitoring (GAM) system (2018–2023), the 2024 PANAROMA dataset of the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), and national HIVST procurement records reported to WHO PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 4 / 17 (2016–2024). For both Spectrum and GAM, HIV testing data are routinely reported jointly to WHO and the UNAIDS by countries through their national HIV testing programs. Where data for the same country-year were available from multiple sources, we prioritized data in the following order: 1) Spectrum estimates files, 2) GAM, or 3) PEPFAR because Spectrum allows countries to update or revise previously submitted data in subsequent years, whereas data submitted to GAM are fixed once reported and cannot be modified retrospectively if found to be incorrect. Our analysis considered countries with at least one available survey and one year of HIVST distribution data, as these were the minimum data required to calibrate the model. Mathematical modeling of HIVST uptake We developed a deterministic compartmental model to estimate HIVST uptake over 2012–2024 among open populations of individuals aged ≥15 years based on a system of ordinary differential equations (Fig 1). The model’s structure was chosen to match the survey (i.e., having ever used an HIVST) and program data (i.e., annual number of HIVST kits distrib- uted) available to inform it, and adapted from a previous model of HIV testing behaviors . The model partitioned the population into individuals who have never used an HIVST (N) and individuals who have ever used an HIVST (H). We further stratified the model by sex and age groups (15–24, 25–34, 35–49, and ≥50 years). Entry into the model
