RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


(N) and individuals who have ever used an HIVST (H). We further stratified the model by sex and age groups (15–24, 25–34, 35–49, and ≥50 years). Entry into the model occurs in the never HIVST compartment for individuals reaching age 15 years and individuals exit the model through death. Demo- graphic inputs were sourced from the United Nations 2024 World Population Prospects (WPP) Revision . All individuals were assumed to have never used an HIVST at model initiation in 2012. People can use HIVST at a time-varying rate (λ (t)) which was modeled as a first-order random walk with annual time steps (t). These self-testing c,j,a rates are country-specific (c) and vary by sex (j) and age groups (a). Individuals who previously used HIVST may be more or less likely to use it again, depending on how HIVST distribution is implemented (e.g., HIVST distributed to key popula- tions). To account for that, we introduced a re-testing rate ratio (RR) for people in the ever self-tested (H) compartment. The model parameters’ prior distributions are presented in Table 1. Our main assumptions, differential equations, and other additional details can be found in Text A (S1 Appendix). Model calibration The model was calibrated within a Bayesian framework with a hierarchical structure on rate ratio parameters, borrowing strength across countries, with weakly informative priors. The calibration outcomes include: 1) the survey proportion of the population reporting having ever used an HIVST, stratified by sex and age groups (using a binomial likelihood), and 2) the annual number of HIVST distributed (using a normal likelihood). For the binomial likelihood, we used design-adjusted effective sample sizes accounting for clusters, strata, and weights. For each country, we calibrate the annual testing rate for females aged 15–24 years (i.e., the referent group), and the following time-invariant parameters (1) the male-to-female RR for the referent age group; (2) the male-specific RRs for each age group; (3) the female-specific RRs for each age group; (4) the proportion of distributed HIVST kits used; and Fig 1. Diagram of the compartmental flows of the deterministic model of HIV self-test (HIVST) users and nonusers. Indices: c = country, j = sex, a = age group (15-24, 25-34, 35-49, ≥ 50), t = year (2012–2024). εc,j (t): yearly entry rate of 15–24-year-olds; δc,j,a (t): annual death rate; λc,j,a (t): annual HIV self-testing rate; RRre–testing: HIV self-testing re-testing rate ratio. c PLOS Medicine | May 5,
