RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


country c. Typical countries are expected to have a re-testing rate ratio ( ) where:RRnr c e–testing ∼ N(0,1) between 0.84 and 1.68, centered around the overall mean of 1.2, with variation driven by country-specific effects. σ RRre–testing Between-group standard devi- ∼ N(0, 0.5) Weakly informative truncated normal ation of country-specific HIVST distribution [0.000001, 5]. re-testing ratio (Continued) PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 6 / 17 Table 1. (Continued) Parameters Definition Prior Justification ϕoverall Overall proportion of distributed N(logit(0.85–0.5), 0.5) Overall proportion of HIVST kits used is HIVST kits used (logit scale) ∼ 1–0.5 centered around 85%, with 95% of the prior density between ~63% and 97% . ϕc Country-specific (c) proportion Derived from: Each country’s usage rate is modeled of distributed HIVST kits used ϕc = 0.5+0.5logit–1 ϕoverall +ϕrawσϕ as a deviation from the overall mean of where:ϕraw ∼ N(0,1) ( ) o f % co , u w n i t t r h ie p s’ a u rt s ia a l g p e o r o a li t n e g s . w A o b u o l u d t f a ll % between 63% and 97%. σϕ Between-group standard N(0, 0.5) Weakly informative truncated normal ∼ deviation of country-specific distribution [0.000001, 5]. proportion of distributed HIVST kits used (5) the HIVST re-testing RR. The sex- and age-related parameters are informed by the survey data (as the program data contains no information on sex or age of the users). An overlap between the survey and program data for a given year informs the proportion of HIVST used and the re-testing ratio; a single overlapping year informs the fraction of kits used, whereas multiple overlapping years are required to inform the re-testing rate. We also assumed that HIVST kits were used in the same calendar year they were distributed. In addition, we incorporated a soft quadratic penalty in years where program data were missing to avoid unrealistically high HIVST testing rates. The penalty threshold was set for the model-predicted annual number of HIVST distributed to 20 times the size of 0.10% of the population for countries with maximum annual testing coverage below 0.10%, and to four times the maximum observed number of HIV tests for all other countries. We used these two thresholds because, in countries with very low testing volumes (i.e., <0.1% coverage per year), using four times
