RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


observed number of HIV tests for all other countries. We used these two thresholds because, in countries with very low testing volumes (i.e., <0.1% coverage per year), using four times the maximum number was too restrictive. In all cases, the thresholds were chosen not to impact the estimated parameters and only reduce implausible trajectories in years after the data point. To obtain posterior distributions for the estimated parameters, we used a Ham- iltonian Monte Carlo (HMC) sampling algorithm with four chains and 4,000 iterations each (including 2,000 iterations for warm-up) implemented in the rstan package (version 2.32.7) . We assessed convergence through traceplots and the R-hat statistics and summarized posterior distributions by the median and 95% credible intervals (95%CrI). Model perfor- mance was assessed using in-sample comparisons. Model outputs Using the calibrated model, we calculated the proportion of the population that ever used an HIVST by country, year, sex, and age group, and the annual total number of HIVST kits used for each country from 2012 to 2024. To calculate the aggregated trends by age groups (14–24, 25–34, 35–49, ≥50 years), sex (men/women), and region (western and central Africa/eastern and southern Africa), the country and year-specific estimates for HIVST uptake were weighted by their relative population size. All the analyses were performed using R software (version 4.4.3). This study complies with the Guidelines for Accurate and Transparent Health Estimates Reporting (GATHER) statement (Table D in S1 Appendix). Ethics All individuals participating in the survey provided verbal informed consent. The protocols for the DHS surveys have been approved by the Internal Review Board of ICF International in Calverton, USA. For all other surveys included in this study PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 7 / 17 (MICS, PHIA, BAIS, and KAIS), approval was obtained from relevant country authorities. Ethical approval for secondary Results Included population-based surveys and countries with HIVST program data We reviewed 93 surveys in Africa from 2012 to 2024 and identified 47 surveys from 33 countries with self-reported HIVST usage. Of the surveys identified, there were 23 DHS, 15 MICS, 7 PHIA, 1 BAIS, and 1 KAIS surveys. Among the 33 coun- tries with survey data, we excluded six that did not have any HIVST program data: the Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Gabon, The Gambia, Mauritania, and Togo. Among countries with program data, these were available for a median of 4 years, totaling 99 country-years of information
