RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


uptake in 2024. PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 10 / 17 Fig 5. Overall and country-specific posterior distributions of the following parameters: rate ratios for 15–24-year-old men (A), age-specific rate ratios for men (B), age-specific rate ratios by age group for women (C). The filled circles represent the median estimates, and the horizontal bars represent the 95% credible intervals (CrI). collected information on men and women aged 15–49 years, with some surveys including men aged 50+. As such, the rate ratios for that latter group were more precise than those of women. HIVST re-testing rate ratios and proportion of distributed HIVST kits used Compared to first-time HIVST users, we estimated that people who had previously used an HIVST were slightly more likely (RR = 1.1; 95%CrI [0.8, 1.5]) to re-use one, with substantial uncertainty (Fig 6A). This parameter was imprecise because an accurate estimate requires a time series of survey and program data that overlap. This information was avail- able from only four countries: Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, and Mozambique (Fig 6A). The fraction of distributed kits that are used had slightly more information in the data, since it could be estimated when there was a minimum of 1 year of overlap in years of survey and years of HIV testing program data. Overall, we estimate that 70% (95%CrI ) of distributed HIVST kits are used by end users (Fig 6B). Credible intervals were wide and overlapping for most countries (Fig 6B). Discussion Tracking uptake of HIVST is challenging. Using 40 population-based surveys encompassing more than 850,000 partici- pants and program data from 27 countries, we developed a flexible hierarchical mathematical model of HIVST behaviors. We estimated that as of 2024, 7% of people aged ≥15 years had ever used an HIVST in these countries. Our results suggest that males are more likely to use an HIVST, that individuals aged 25–34 have the highest rates of HIVST use, that about 70% of distributed kits are used, and that individuals who have used an HIVST in the past could be slightly more likely to use it again, though this specific estimate is not precise. PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 11 / 17 Fig 6. Overall and country-specific posterior distributions of the following parameters: re-testing rate ratio (A) and proportion of distributed kits used (B). The filled circles represent the median estimates, and the horizontal bars represent the 95% credible intervals
