RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


the following parameters: re-testing rate ratio (A) and proportion of distributed kits used (B). The filled circles represent the median estimates, and the horizontal bars represent the 95% credible intervals (95%CrI). Across Africa, coverage of traditional facility-based HTS has consistently been lower for men compared to women, contributing to consistent gender disparities in HIV testing . A modeling study estimated that men aged 35–49 years were the largest undiagnosed group of PLHIV unaware of their HIV serostatus in 2020 . Our results indicate that men are slightly more likely to have used an HIVST (7.2% for men versus 6.4% for women). Such findings are consistent with existing literature . Men’s higher uptake of HIVST could be the consequence of existing distribution strategies in Africa that prioritize them such as 1) distribution to partners of pregnant and breastfeeding women; 2) formal and informal workplace distributions; 3) prisons and harm reduction centers; 4) mobile brigades and outreach testing; 5) targeted distri- bution to key populations, especially men who have sex with men and men sex workers . This points to the poten- tial role that HIVST can play in closing HIV diagnosis gaps. Lower uptake of HIVST in younger age groups may also be related to policy barriers that limit access due to age of consent laws. While WHO has previously recommended these be reviewed and revised, several countries, particularly in west and central Africa, limit HIV testing and self-testing to those ≥18 years . The scale-up of HIVST was highly variable across countries and regions. The eastern and southern regions, which have higher HIV prevalences, showed greater uptake of HIVST (10%)—five-times that of the western and central regions (2%). Countries where HIVST uptake exceeded 10% in 2024 were all part of the STAR initiative, except PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 12 / 17 Namibia. National HIVST implementation follows two main strategies: 1) distribution prioritized to key populations (e.g., sex workers, men who have sex with men), and 2) facility-based distribution through public and private sectors. In practice, however, countries adopt a mix of distribution models . Countries with higher HIV burden and more estab- lished ART programs have incorporated HIVST into long-term sustainability plans, using it to reach first-time testers and support routine re-testing among vulnerable populations. Irrespective of the strategy adopted, our results indicated that most of the distributed HIVST kits are used, although the pooled estimate has wide
