RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


was largely financed by the Global Fund, and distribution prioritized to men who have sex with men and female sex workers . In the DRC, HIVST was funded by PEPFAR and includes some facility-based distribution—but the emphasis remained on key populations—and is also offered through index testing and partner-delivered strategies among sero-discordant couples . The low uptake in these settings may be further threatened by the closure of United States Agency for International Development (USAID) supported drop-in centers for key populations because of changes to US foreign aid and PEPFAR priorities implemented in early 2025. Innovative uses of HIVST may be increas- expanded access through pharmacies and client-led testing may also become more feasible and attractive under such constraints. Our study results should be interpreted considering the following limitations. First, some of the model parameters are best informed in settings with a good temporal overlap between survey and program data. However, few countries met this criterion, which led to imprecise estimates of the HIVST re-testing rate ratio and, to a lesser extent, the proportion of distributed HIVST kits used. Second, survey data on HIVST use are self-reported and could be subject to recall bias and/ or misclassification. For instance, individuals might misinterpret provider-initiated point-of-care rapid testing as self- testing. Third, we excluded six countries that did not have any HIVST program data. Countries that did not collect information on HIVST distribution could have lower HIVST usage, which would lead to overestimation of uptake in our aggregated estimates compared to the whole of the African region. Fourth, coverage of the credible intervals was wide for the HIVST program data and narrow for the survey data, albeit properly centered, reflecting differences in error structures. Finally, we PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 13 / 17 did not model HIVST positivity and awareness of HIV status because most surveys did not collect HIV serostatus, and the HTS program data for most countries do not report confirmatory testing following a reactive HIVST. Strengths of our study included assembling one of the most comprehensive datasets on HIVST uptake from population-based surveys and HIVST program data from African countries. Second, we calibrated the model to all 27 countries simultaneously in a Bayesian framework, improving estimation of important parameters in data sparse settings. Third, our model sheds light on HIVST behaviors through the synthesis and triangulation of two complementary data sources . Our study provides evidence that
