RESEARCH ARTICLE
KEYWORDS: hivst, hiv, data, countries, uptake, testing, used, rate, model, survey, cri, surveys, years, kits, hivst uptake


important parameters in data sparse settings. Third, our model sheds light on HIVST behaviors through the synthesis and triangulation of two complementary data sources . Our study provides evidence that HIVST is no longer a marginal HIV testing modality. Given the increasing use of HIVST, countries should continue measuring the uptake of this critical tool to understand gaps in coverage. Moving forward, epidemiological models that intend to estimate awareness of HIV status should incorporate this modality (at least in countries with moderate levels of HIVST use) for evaluating the progress towards achieving the ‘first 95’ target . However, limited information exists on how HIVSTs are being implemented across countries and over time, which poses challenges to understand the impacts of this modality. Moreover, after the sudden dismantlement of major survey initia- tives (such as DHS) in February 2025 by the United States, countries will increasingly rely on other multi-country survey initiatives (i.e., MICS) or smaller country-specific surveys that may be conducted less frequently, increasing our reliance on routinely collected program data on HIVST distribution . Our modeling framework has the potential to strengthen the interpretability and usability of such program data. Our findings can support countries in optimizing the use of HIVST by prioritizing individuals most likely to be undi- agnosed, thus sustaining HTS amid shifting data landscapes and funding priorities. Our modeling framework offers a practical tool for national HIV programs to monitor HIVST uptake, and guide policy decisions and interventions aimed at increasing HIV testing coverage and improving linkage to care to, ultimately, reduce HIV incidence. Supporting information S1 Appendix. Supplementary materials presenting additional survey information, model equations, calibration and model fits, and sensitivity analyses. (PDF) Acknowledgments The authors acknowledge and thank all the collaborators, the survey participants and the field workers involved in the project. Author contributions Conceptualization: Aishi Aratrika, Carla M. Doyle, Mathieu Maheu-Giroux. Data curation: Aishi Aratrika, Olanrewaju Edun. Formal analysis: Aishi Aratrika. Funding acquisition: Mathieu Maheu-Giroux. Investigation: Aishi Aratrika. Methodology: Aishi Aratrika, Carla M. Doyle. Project administration: Aishi Aratrika. Resources: Mathieu Maheu-Giroux. Supervision: Cédric P. Yansouni, Mathieu Maheu-Giroux. Validation: Aishi Aratrika, Carla M. Doyle, Cheryl Case Johnson, Olanrewaju Edun, Bogol Mbope, Achille Adoko, Mphotleng Tlhomola, Cédric P. Yansouni, Augustine Talumba Choko, Jeffrey W. Imai-Eaton. PLOS Medicine | May 5, 2026 14 / 17 Visualization: Aishi Aratrika. Writing – original draft: Aishi Aratrika. Writing – review & editing: Carla M. Doyle, Cheryl Case Johnson, Olanrewaju
