Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


20–1 CHAPTER 20 PERIPHERAL ARTERIAL DISEASE, FOOT ULCERS, LOWER EXTREMITY AMPUTATIONS, AND DIABETES Edward J. Boyko, MD, MPH, Matilde Monteiro-Soares, DPM, PhD, and Stephanie G.B. Wheeler, MD, MPH Dr. Edward J. Boyko is Professor at the University of Washington and Staff Physician at the Veterans Affairs Puget Sound, Seattle, WA. Dr. Matilde Monteiro-Soares is an Investigator at the Center for Health Technology and Services Research (CINTESIS) and an Instructor in the Department of Community Medicine Information and Health Decision Sciences (U753-FCT), Oporto Faculty of Medicine, Oporto, Portugal. Dr. Stephanie G.B. Wheeler is Associate Professor at the University of Washington and Staff Physician, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound, Seattle, WA. Received in final form January 6, 2015. SUMMARY Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is common among persons with diabetes, and estimates of prevalence range from 10% to 20%. The condition is often asymptomatic. Persons with diabetes are at increased risk for PAD and often have more distal vascular disease than persons without diabetes. PAD is associated with substantial morbidity, including pain and functional impairment, amputation, and higher risk of death. Diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) occurs commonly in persons with diabetes, with a lifetime prevalence estimated between 12% and 25%. Healing of DFU may take months to years, and often these lesions lead to lower extremity amputation (LEA). The leading cause of DFU is neuropathy, with contributions from multiple other risk factors, including PAD, diabetes duration and control, and self-care factors. Although diabetes accounted for the majority of all LEA in the United States in 1997, the frequency of hospitalizations for amputation among persons also coded as having diabetes fell dramatically between 1996 and 2008, from approximately 11 to 4 per 1,000 persons hospitalized. Although reduced, this rate is approximately sevenfold higher compared to persons without diabetes. PAD, DFU, and LEA have a considerable negative impact on both the functional status and survival of persons with diabetes in the United States. PERIPHERAL ARTERIAL DISEASE INTRODUCTION Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) refers to partial or complete obstruction of the peripheral arteries, typically the arteries in the legs. The most common symptom of PAD is intermittent claudication, which is calf and lower extremity pain that develops with walking or other exertion and is relieved by rest. However, the majority of persons with PAD are asymp­ tomatic. PAD is more common among persons with diabetes due to the higher risk for arterial atherosclerosis associated with this metabolic disorder.
