Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


the majority of persons with PAD are asymp­ tomatic. PAD is more common among persons with diabetes due to the higher risk for arterial atherosclerosis associated with this metabolic disorder. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF ATHEROSCLEROSIS IN DIABETES Diabetes is associated with an increased risk for atherogenesis and vascular inflammation, caused by hyperglycemia, excess free fatty acids, insulin resistance, and other factors. Inflammation and atherogenic activity are associated with endothelial cell dysfunction, abnormalities in vascular smooth muscle cell function, platelet abnormalities, and a hyperco­ agulable state (1,2,3). Nitric oxide (NO) is an important mediator of endothelial function due to its effects on vasodilation, leukocyte-vascular wall interactions, and platelet aggregation. Hyperglycemia contributes to the loss of NO homeostasis by blocking endothelial cell NO synthase (4) and increasing production of reactive oxygen species accompanied by vascular inflammation (5). Insulin resistance leads to increased free fatty acid levels, which activate protein kinase C, inhibit phos­ phatidylinositol-3 kinase, and increase production of reactive oxygen species. Increases in these proinflammatory factors, together with the loss of NO homeostasis and increased local oxidative stress, are associated with the transformation of leukocytes into foam cells (3). Transition to foam cells is an important early step in atheroma development. Hyperglycemia activates inflammatory mediators and reactive oxygen products that are associ­ ated with abnormal migration of vascular smooth muscle cells, so that advanced atherosclerotic lesions in diabetic patients have fewer vascular smooth muscle cells compared with lesions in those without diabetes. This can promote atherosclerotic lesion formation and plaque instability. Glucose entry into platelets is not depen­ dent on insulin, so glucose levels in the platelet are similar to intravascular levels and can lead to changes associated with accelerated atherogenesis, including oxida­ tive stress, increased platelet aggregation, and decreased levels of endogenous inhib­ itors of platelet activity. Hyperglycemia increases blood coagulability and impairs fibrinolysis through increased production of tissue factor, a potent procoagulant. Hyperglycemia also increases plasma concentrations of factor VII and 20–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 and decreases endogenous anticoagulants, such as antithrombin III and protein C. Differences in Pathophysiology Compared to Persons Without Diabetes Arterial disease in people with diabetes is both morphologically and physiologically different than in persons without diabetes (6,7,8). The femoropopliteal arterial segments are most often affected, as in nondiabetic patients. However, smaller vessels below the knee, including the profunda femoris, popliteal, anterior tibial, peroneal, and posterior tibial arteries, are more
