Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


arterial segments are most often affected, as in nondiabetic patients. However, smaller vessels below the knee, including the profunda femoris, popliteal, anterior tibial, peroneal, and posterior tibial arteries, are more severely affected in diabetic than in nondiabetic patients (2,8,9,10), with a high prevalence of diffuse rather than focal lesions. In addition, medial calcification of the tibial and peroneal arteries is more common. Diabetes is associated with a propensity to earlier arterial calcification, increased thrombogenicity, and generally poorer prognosis. DEFINITION AND MEASUREMENT OF PAD PAD refers to narrowing of the vascular lumen resulting in a reduction in blood supply that leads to inadequate oxygen­ ation of the tissues of the lower extremity. The most common cause of PAD is athero­ sclerosis, in which the arterial lumen becomes occluded by plaque arising from the intima. This process largely affects the large and medium-sized arteries, usually at branch points and bifurcations (10,11). Invasive Measurement Visualization of the arterial vasculature is possible via radiographic contrast angi­ ography, which is considered the gold standard for vascular disease diagnosis. Due to its invasive nature and the risk of kidney injury, radiographic contrast angiography is rarely used in clinical diag­ nosis other than in the setting of planned revascularization, where it is performed to precisely localize anatomic arterial obstruc­ tions. Magnetic resonance angiography is fast becoming an important noninvasive method for the detection of PAD. Noninvasive Measurement The ankle-brachial index (ABI) is a noninva­ sive, simple to perform, inexpensive, and widely used method for the assessment of arterial blood flow to the lower extremity. The ABI is measured in a supine patient by obtaining the brachial and ankle systolic pressures using a 5–7 MHz handheld Doppler device. Both the posterior tibial and dorsalis pedis systolic pressures should be obtained, because adequate flow in either of these arterial beds is sufficient to perfuse the foot. The ABI is calculated by dividing the higher of the posterior tibial or dorsalis pedis systolic pressures by the higher of either of the brachial systolic pressures (12,13). The normal ABI can be defined as 0.9–1.3 (1). To account for vari­ ability in the measurement, it is generally agreed that a lower cutoff value of 0.95 is normal (10). PAD is often defined as an ABI ≤0.90, although some studies have used a cutoff of 0.80. Severe obstruction requiring vascular surgery evaluation is usually recommended for a value <0.4 or <0.5. In persons
