Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


years (15). The issues of screening and misclassification and the limitations of the ABI were acknowledged. However, the problems were not felt to detract from the clinical usefulness of the ABI to screen for and diagnose PAD in persons with diabetes. Hallux pressures may be used in patients with medial artery calcification in whom the ABI is elevated. Calcification of the arterial media is common in persons with diabetes, but medial calcification does not extend into the digital arteries. Thus, perfusion pressure can be assessed by measuring hallux systolic pressure using either a strain-gauge sensor or photoplethysmography (16). Symptom-Based Diagnosis Claudication is an insensitive measure of PAD, with symptomless diminished arterial flow estimated to occur at least two to five times as frequently as symptomatic claudication (17). Multiple questionnaire instruments are available to assess the presence of claudica­ tion, including the Rose questionnaire (11), which inquires about the following features of PAD clinical symptoms: pain located in one or both calves, provoca­ tion by walking quickly or uphill, never occurring at rest, forces the subject to stop or slacken pace, disappears within 10 minutes of rest, and never disappears with continued walking. The original Rose questionnaire has only moderate sensi­ tivity (60%–68%) in capturing persons with this clinical diagnosis (18) when physician diagnosis and ABI are used as the gold standard. The Edinburgh Claudication Questionnaire, a simplified version of the Rose questionnaire, has improved diagnostic test indices with sensitivity of 91.3% (95% confidence interval [CI] 88.1%–94.5%) and specificity of 99.3% (95% CI 98.9%–100%) (18). Exercise Testing Exercise testing can help with diagnosis of PAD in patients who have typical symp­ toms of claudication but a normal ABI or in those with atypical symptoms. Patients walk on a graded treadmill until symp­ toms are elicited, and ABIs are recorded immediately thereafter (10). Patients with arterial obstruction will typically have a >20 mmHg drop in ankle pressure after exercise. Measures Suitable for Epidemiologic Research The ABI is a valid and reproducible measurement of PAD. Compared with an assessment of pulses or a medical history, the ABI is more accurate (1). The ABI has been validated against angiography and found to be 95% sensitive and almost 100% specific (19,20). Limitations to the ABI are that it is inaccurate in patients with calcified, poorly compressible vessels and in symptomatic patients with moderate aortoiliac stenoses (1). EPIDEMIOLOGY Data Sources and Limitations One general data source
