Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


(Table 20.8). In these data, the prevalence of hypertension in diabetes was increased, so that persons with PAD had a higher prevalence of hyper­ tension, but the elevation compared to those without PAD was not as pronounced. Women with diabetes, in particular, had a higher prevalence of hypertension than men, with or without PAD. The association of hypercholesterolemia with atherosclerosis of the lower extremi­ ties has been known since the 1930s (40). The prevalence of claudication in patients with serum cholesterol levels >260 mg/dL (>6.73 mmol/L) is on average over twice as high as in those with concentrations below this level. The Edinburgh Artery Study reported a higher prevalence of PAD in association with higher serum cholesterol and lower HDL cholesterol in multiple logistic regression analysis (41). The Cardiovascular Health Study reached similar conclusions among its sample of 5,084 subjects age ≥65 years, with PAD defined as an ABI <0.9 (32). A variety of novel risk factors have been associated with a higher prevalence of PAD in several population-based studies. Higher circulating levels of homocys­ teine have been demonstrated with PAD (42), as have low levels of folate in red blood cells and circulating vitamin B6 (43). Higher levels of various hemostatic factors have been demonstrated in persons with low ABI, suggesting that a hypercoagulable state predisposes to the development of PAD (44,45). Increased levels of hemostatic factors, such as fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), fibrin D-dimer, and plasma viscosity explained in part the higher prevalence of PAD in subjects with diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance in the Edinburgh Artery Study (46). A number of studies have shown an asso­ ciation between various inflammatory markers and PAD. C-reactive protein and the presence of PAD, defined as ABI <0.9, were studied among 1,600 subjects with the metabolic syndrome, diabetes, or preexisting arterial disease in the NHANES 1999–2000 (47). Compared to those without preexisting disease and a C-reactive protein of <1 mg/L (<9.52 nmol/L), those with diabetes and an elevated C-reactive protein had an odds ratio for PAD of 8.6 (95% CI 2.2–34.0). Subjects with the metabolic syndrome and an elevated C-reactive protein also had higher odds of PAD (odds ratio 3.9, 95% CI 1.1–14.6). A new analysis of NHANES 1999–2004 data showed that among participants age ≥40 years, mean C-reactive protein concentration was higher among those with PAD compared to those without PAD among persons with diagnosed diabetes
