Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. See Table 20.11 for further details. A1c, glycosylated hemoglobin. 1 Relative standard error >30%–40% 2 Relative standard error >40%–50% 3 Estimate is too unreliable to present; ≤1 case or relative standard error >50%. SOURCE: National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 1999–2004 20–12 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Diabetes Treatment and PAD Risk In the EDIC study, intensive insulin therapy compared to conventional therapy during the DCCT resulted in decreased progression of carotid artery intima-media thickness 6 years after the end of the trial (57). Progression of carotid intima-media thickness was associated with the traditional risk factors mentioned above for PAD, including age, systolic blood pressure, smoking, the ratio of low-density lipoprotein to HDL cholesterol, urinary albumin excretion rate, and mean A1c value during the DCCT. The A1c value explained 96% of the differences between treatment groups in intima-media thickness of the common carotid artery at year 6 of follow-up. These findings argue that progression of atherosclerosis can be impeded with intensive glycemic control. Whether these results would apply as well to the peripheral arteries of the lower extremities is not known. Persons with diagnosed diabetes and PAD included in the NHANES 1999–2004 more frequently reported insulin use (Table 20.13) for all examined age, sex, and race/ethnicity categories in analyses conducted for Diabetes in America. This finding should not be interpreted to imply that insulin is associated with a higher prevalence of PAD, as insulin is often used for intensive control. In standard medical practice, insulin use may be a marker for more severe diabetes, and the associa­ tion between insulin use and higher PAD prevalence may be another example of confounding by indication. The use of oral medications for diabetes treatment was slightly less common in persons with PAD and diagnosed diabetes (Table 20.14). This is not a surprising finding given that the same persons were more likely to be treated with insulin, which often replaces oral diabetes treatments. Outcomes of PAD PAD is a progressive condition that exacts a substantial toll in terms of morbidity and need for medical interventions. Estimates derived from population data show that approximately 27% of patients with PAD experience progression of symptoms over a 5-year period (1). In a study of 257 patients with intermittent claudication referred to a Copenhagen hospital-based physiology clinic for initial evaluation, the rate
