Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


(PAD) is defined as ankle-brachial index <0.9 on either leg. Diagnosed diabetes is based on self-report. Undiagnosed diabetes is defined as A1c ≥6.5% or fasting plasma glucose ≥126 mg/dL. Conversions for A1c and glucose values are provided in Diabetes in America Appendix 1 Conversions. Error bars represent 95% confidence intervals. See Table 20.12 for further details. A1c, glycosylated hemoglobin. 1 Relative standard error >40%–50% SOURCE: National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 1999–2004 Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes 20–13 (58). In this study, the cumulative rate of reconstructive lower extremity surgery at 5 years was 9.5%, and the cumulative amputation rate was 6.8%. In a new analysis of cross-sectional data from the NHANES 1999–2004 population, a greater proportion of persons with PAD reported fair or poor health regardless of diabetes status (Table 20.15). There were too few persons with undiagnosed diabetes and PAD to produce stable estimates by age, sex, and race/ethnicity strata; although in the strata in which such estimates were available, the same trend was seen with poorer health reported by persons with PAD (Table 20.15). Cardiovascular Outcomes Patients with symptomatic PAD have four to seven times the risk of mortality from all causes and a fifteenfold higher risk of mortality from CVD than persons who do not have PAD (59). Mortality rates appear to be related to the severity of the obstructive process as measured by the ABI. In prospective studies, PAD mortality outcome by diabetes status is not available, although a 6-year study showed that low ABI was strongly associated with increased mortality, inde­ pendent of age or presence or absence of diabetes (60). Although the presence of arterial obstructive disease of the legs is a hallmark of generalized atheroscle­ rosis and, therefore, would be expected to confer an increased risk of cardiovas­ cular or cerebrovascular death, severe PAD appears to carry a particularly ominous prognosis. Patients with an ABI ≤0.30 had a very high 6-year cumulative mortality rate (64%) (60). Among the NHANES 1999–2004 population, a new data analysis showed that presence of PAD was associated with a substantially higher overall frequency of past history of coronary heart disease, angina, or myocardial infarction regardless of diabetes status and in all strata defined by age, sex, or race/ethnicity with enough subjects to permit stable esti­ mates (Figure 20.13, Table 20.16). These data support the coexistence of vascular arterial disease in the lower
