Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


have a significant impact on DFU healing. In the Eurodiale study, end-stage renal disease was associ­ ated with a higher rate of DFU nonhealing (166). Older (110,166,169,172,177) and male patients presented lower healing rates in several studies (166,173,177). Subjects with previous DFU or LEA history have lower healing rates (168,180). Chronic hyperglycemia is linked to compromised cellular matrix reorganiza­ tion (186) and white blood cell function (79), phenomena that would be expected to impede wound healing delay and increase the risk of LEA (66). However, no RCT has been conducted to deter­ mine whether intensive glycemic control improves healing of DFU (79,187). Treatment Strategies. Several thera­ peutic technologies have been created to improve DFU treatment and its prog­ nosis. Results have been discouraging, with little benefit shown over and above standard wound care with appropriate debridement and pressure offloading (188). Debridement should be adequately conducted before any healing technology application (63). In fact, an RCT of beca­ plermin reported that those patients with more frequent debridement presented higher healing rates (189). A systematic review investigating the effect of surgical debridement on DFU healing identified five RCTs (190) of debridement that demonstrated better outcomes with more frequent application of this intervention. Due to the low number of included studies and methodological disparities, the authors concluded that further research is needed. Pressure offloading is the other corner­ stone of appropriate wound care. Unless repetitive pressure and shear forces are diminished, wound healing will be impaired (189). Multiple offloading strat­ egies are available, with published data favoring the total contact cast (TCC), which can reduce pressure at the DFU site by 84%–92%. This technique has consis­ tently proved to be the most effective regarding healing rates and time to heal (both in observational studies and RCTs) in comparison to other offloading modal­ ities (191,192) and with other therapeutic procedures, such as becaplermin, bioen­ gineered tissue, or electrical stimulation (186). A Cochrane review provided further support for the use of nonremovable, pressure relieving casts in the treatment of DFU, finding benefit in healing from this intervention (193). Due to time and a high level of expertise required, TCC is not widely adopted by the medical community (191). On the other hand, the use of thera­ peutic shoes to promote healing still lacks sufficient evidence to prove its effective­ ness (191). A meta-analysis of four RCTs concluded that the group treated with becaplermin showed higher
