Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


not reported by amputation level, so all levels from toe to hemipelvectomy were included in this analysis. A very similar LEA rate of 4 per 1,000 persons with diabetes in 2008 was estimated from U.S. national Medicare Parts A and B data using the same ICD-9 codes to capture amputation, with the exception that the sample did not include amputations higher than above the knee (73). Persons age ≥65 years were predominant in this sample, but others eligible for Medicare were represented as well, including persons with end-stage renal disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or who have a severe and permanent disability as determined by the Social Security Administration. In the same Medicare population in 2008, the prevalence of LEA among persons with diabetes was 18 per 1,000 persons (205). Prevalence of LEA varied nationally, with higher rates seen mainly in the South and Southwest (Figure 20.16), consistent with the higher prevalence of diabetes in the Medicare population in the same general regions (Figure 20.17) (205,206). National variation in amputation inci­ dence between 2007 and 2010 was also noted across the United Kingdom (207). Incidence also varied by race/ethnicity, with lower incidence noted in both Asians FIGURE 20.16. Prevalence of a Primary or Secondary Diagnostic Code for Lower Extremity Amputation, Medicare Beneficiaries, U.S., 2008 Prevalence of a primary or secondary diagnostic code for lower extremity amputation among Medicare beneficiaries with diabetes continuously enrolled in Parts A and B Fee-for-Service plans for at least 12 months by Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care Hospital Referral Regions (HRR) (www.dartmouthatlas.org). SOURCE: Reference 73 FIGURE 20.17. Prevalence of Diabetes Based on Claims Data in a 12-Month Continuous Medicare Enrollment Period, U.S., 2008 Prevalence of two or more claims with ICD-9 codes consistent with diabetes or at least one inpatient claim with ICD-9 codes consistent with diabetes in the 12-month period of continuous enrollment in Parts A and B Fee-for- Service plans among Medicare beneficiaries by Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care Hospital Referral Regions (HRR) (www.dartmouthatlas.org). ICD-9, International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision. SOURCE: Reference 205 20–24 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition and blacks (207). Amputation rates based on the Medicare Diabetes Analytics File in the United States and a Department of Veterans Affairs study, though, found the opposite results with regard to blacks who had a higher LEA frequency (203,208). Type of diabetes and amputation level are typically not reported in national surveys of LEA incidence
