Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


the opposite results with regard to blacks who had a higher LEA frequency (203,208). Type of diabetes and amputation level are typically not reported in national surveys of LEA incidence and prevalence. Data from the NHANES 1999–2004 were examined for Diabetes in America to estimate prevalence of amputation by level as assessed by physical examina­ tion (Table 20.23). Overall prevalence of amputation was 0.18%, but this estimate is imprecise due to the small number of participants noted to have had an LEA. The majority of amputations involved at least the entire foot. The exact level at the foot or a more proximal location was not specified. A higher prevalence was seen among persons with diagnosed and undi­ agnosed diabetes, but statistical inference is not possible in these data due to the large standard errors. According to a new analysis of survey data, the percentage of outpatient physician visits related to amputation were infrequent overall in the National Ambulatory Medical Care Surveys 2002–2009 but five times more likely to occur in persons with compared to those without diabetes (Table 20.24). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The main indication for LEA is tissue nonviability due to ischemia, infection, or injury (209). The effect of diabetes is one step removed but acts through pathways that increase risk of ischemia due to PAD and infection following the development of a foot ulcer (210). LEA in diabetes is frequently preceded by a nonhealing foot ulcer that may lead to extensive infection involving soft tissue and bone for which the only effective treatment is amputa­ tion (210). Severe PAD associated with diabetes may require amputation as treat­ ment for a nonhealing ulcer, gangrene, or refractory pain (209). History of DFU and PAD appear to have independent roles in predicting amputation risk, as a positive DFU history was linked to a higher risk of LEA even when adjusted for PAD and number of diabetic complications (147). Risk Factors LEA risk is similar in persons with type 1 or type 2 diabetes (211,212). The major reported risk factors for amputation include diabetes severity and duration, neuropathy, PAD, advanced age, and presence of other diabetic complications (73,180,211,212). These risk factors closely parallel those of DFU, as described elsewhere in this chapter. Some racial/ ethnic differences have been demon­ strated in risk of LEA. Compared to European/Caucasians, American Indians are at higher risk and South and East Asian TABLE 20.23. Prevalence of Lower Extremity
