Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


account the complex sampling design. AIAN, American Indian/Alaska Native; ICD-9, International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision. 1 Relative standard error >40%–50% 2 Estimate is too unreliable to present; ≤1 case or relative standard error >50%. SOURCE: National Hospital Discharge Surveys 2002–2009 Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes 20–25 men and women and Afro-Caribbean men at lower risk (213,214,215). The inci­ dence of LEA per 1,000 persons in 2008 assessed in the U.S. Medicare population differed by race/ethnicity as follows: white, 4; black, 7; Asian, 2; Hispanic, 5; and American Indian/Alaska Native, 8 (73). Smoking was not related to ampu­ tation risk among persons with diabetes in several cohort studies (180,201,216), despite the strong association between this habit and PAD (217). Regarding the association of LEA with glycemia, a meta-analysis based on 94,640 subjects from 14 prospective studies estimated a 1.26-fold increase in LEA risk in relation to each 1% increase in A1c (211). A study based at a large Northern California health plan confirmed an increase in amputation risk not only with elevated A1c but also with higher serum triglyceride concentration (216). The DCCT and the UKPDS assessed outcomes in relation to an intensive compared to a standard glucose control strategy. Neither study to date has reported whether this intervention resulted in fewer amputations or foot ulcers. National Hospital Discharge Survey data from 2002–2009 were assessed for Diabetes in America to identify character­ istics associated with amputation (Table 20.25). The proportion of discharges for amputation among persons with diabetes was approximately sevenfold higher compared to persons without diabetes. The highest proportion of discharges for amputation among persons with diabetes occurred in the 45–64-years age range. This pattern was not seen among persons without diabetes. Similar patterns of sex (higher in women) and race (higher in black and American Indian/Alaska Native) differences were seen between persons with and without diabetes. Outcomes of LEA Reamputation. An initial LEA increases the risk of subsequent amputation to the ipsilateral (same) or contralateral (other) limb. Estimates of the degree of this risk vary depending on the extent of the initial surgical procedure. For example, a toe amputation will carry a higher risk of reamputation of the ipsilateral limb than a more proximal (nearer the hip) amputation, such as trans-tibial, because the more distal (nearer the toe) procedure may not be adequate to resect the diseased area to permit healing. Since more
