Chapter 20: Peripheral Arterial Disease, Foot Ulcers, Lower Extremity Amputations, and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, pad, foot, disease, risk, diabetic, peripheral, arterial, age, dfu, arterial disease, peripheral arterial, standard, persons, study


proximal (nearer the hip) amputation, such as trans-tibial, because the more distal (nearer the toe) procedure may not be adequate to resect the diseased area to permit healing. Since more limb remains, the potential for additional amputation is higher. Prior amputation was associated with an approximately threefold increase in risk of subsequent amputation in a model that controlled for PAD, neuropathy, diabetes duration, and treatment with insulin, but risk in relation to level of initial amputation was not examined (180). A systematic review of the reamputation rate following a limb-salvaging ray resection (toe and metatarsal) yielded only five studies that included a total of 435 patients under­ going this procedure, among whom 86 (19.8%) required reamputation (218). A higher risk of ipsilateral reamputation among patients who had undergone more distal amputation was generally seen in other investigations (219,220). A high risk of amputation to the contralateral limb at 5-year follow-up varied by level of the initial amputation, with risk ranging from 18.8% for an initial toe to 53.3% for an initial below the knee amputation. Functional Status. Little information is available to assess the effects of LEA on functional status and quality of life among persons with diabetes specifically. In general, diabetes is associated with functional impairment, as assessed by the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 20 (221). Mexican Americans with diabetes had an approximately twofold increase in the risk of having a significant impairment in a lower body activity of daily living compared to persons without diabetes. Perhaps not surprisingly, the presence of an LEA increased the risk of any significant lower body impairment 2.3-fold among those with diabetes in this population (222). Diabetic LEA was associated with a significantly higher Sickness Impact Profile score among persons with diabetes, but this difference was primarily due to poorer physical dimension scores, as psychosocial dimension scores did not significantly differ by amputation status (223). Mortality. Both prevalent and incident LEA were associated with a high annual risk of death in the Medicare popula­ tion in 2008 of 170 and 206 per 1,000, respectively, compared to the Medicare population without LEA (73). A retro­ spective study conducted in the United Kingdom found a similar 1-year mortality of 170 per 1,000 among persons with diabetes who had undergone LEA (224). However, the association between higher mortality and having experienced a LEA is inconsistent, as a study in Fremantle, Australia, found no difference in
