34 weeks pregnant. Heart rate of 180
KEYWORDS: rvr, atrial, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, pregnancy, adenosine, given, patient, rvr setting, safe, setting, showed, cardiovert, hours, response


A multiparous 41 y.o. female with history of an episode Atrial Fibrillation with Rapid Ventricular Response (AF RVR) in the setting of pregnancy 15 years prior and recent stillbirth presented with recurrent AF RVR in the setting of a 34 week gestation based on bedside US. The patient began feeling SOB with fast heart rate and dizziness the previous evening (approximately 12 hours prior). Since it continued, she presented to a smaller hospital, where her EKG showed possible AF RVR with rates as high as 180 bpm, then down to 140s after metoprolol. Her d-dimer was also elevated at nearly 2000, so she was transferred to a tertiary center for management of AF RVR in the setting of high risk pregnancy. On arrival, she reported no new complaints, and stated that she can still feel the baby moving, that she has not felt contractions, and she has not had any leakage of fluid. She had not sought prenatal care due to anxiety surrounding previous pregnancy ending in stillbirth. BP 135/107 | Pulse (!) 181 | Resp (!) 29 | SpO2 (!) 92% Narrow Complex, Fast (174), No P-waves, Irregularly Irregular = Atrial Fibrillation with Rapid Ventricular Response (RVR). There is no evidence of ischemia. OB was present. A bedside ultrasound showed good ejection fraction, possibly dilated RV, no B lines. Fetal Exam showed movement and heart rate of 160. Adenosine was given. The patient became hypotensive and an arterial line was placed. Magnesium, and fluids were given. Metoprolol of unknown dose was given and HR decreased to 140. CT did not show PE. Adenosine 12 mg was repeated. Esmolol was attempted, with a drop of systolic BP to 40s. As pt was now unstable, they administered synchronized cardioversion at 200J using etomidate for sedation, with conversion to NSR. Learning Point: This irregularly irregular rhythm is atrial fibrillation, NOT PSVT. This ECG cannot be anything other than Atrial fibrillation!! Adenosine does not convert Atrial fibrillation! It is safe to electrically cardiovert in pregnancy. From a stroke perspective, in a patient who is not anticoagulated, it is VERY safe to cardiovert AF RVR if the time since onset is < 12 hours. It is even safe to cardiovert if time since onset is 12-48 hours.
