Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


processes, most laboratories report total serum calcium concentrations. Concentrations of total calcium in normal serum generally range between 8.5 and 10.5 mg/dL (2.12 to 2.62 mM) and levels above this are considered to be consistent with hypercalcemia. Nevertheless, reference ranges may vary between laboratories. The normal range of ionized calcium is generally 4.65-5.25 mg/dL (1.16-1.31 mM), but again values may vary slightly between laboratories. When protein concentrations, and especially albumin concentrations, fluctuate substantially, total calcium levels may vary, whereas the ionized calcium may remain relatively stable. Thus, dehydration, or hemoconcentration during venipuncture may elevate serum albumin, and a falsely elevated total serum calcium may be reported (“pseudo-hypercalcemia”). Such elevations in total calcium, when albumin levels are increased, can be "corrected" by subtracting 0.8 mg/dL from the total calcium for every 1.0 g/dL by which the serum albumin concentration is >4 g/dL. Conversely when albumin levels are low, total calcium can be corrected by adding 0.8 mg/dL for every 1.0 g/dL by which the albumin is <4 g/dL. Thus, to correct for an abnormally high or low serum albumin the following formula can be used: Corrected calcium (mg/dL) = measured total serum calcium (mg/dL) + [4.0- serum albumin (g/dL) X 0.8] or Corrected calcium (mM) = measured total Ca (mM) + [40 - serum albumin (g/L)] X 0.02. Nevertheless, although algorithms to adjust for albumin levels are widely used, their accuracy may be poor. Even in the presence of a normal serum albumin, changes in blood pH can alter the equilibrium constant of the albumin-Ca++ complex, with acidosis reducing the binding and alkalosis enhancing it. Consequently, when major shifts in serum protein or pH are present it is most prudent to directly measure the ionized calcium level in order to determine the presence of hypercalcemia. PHYSIOLOGY OF CALCIUM HOMEOSTASIS The extracellular fluid (ECF) concentration of calcium is tightly maintained within a rather narrow range because of the importance of the calcium ion to numerous cellular functions including cell division, cell adhesion and plasma membrane integrity, protein secretion, muscle contraction, neuronal excitability, glycogen metabolism, and coagulation. The skeleton, the gut and the kidney play a major role in assuring calcium homeostasis. Overall, in a typical individual, if 1000 mg of calcium are ingested in the diet per day, approximately 200 mg will be absorbed. Approximately 10 g of calcium will be filtered daily through the kidney and most will be reabsorbed with
