Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


ingested in the diet per day, approximately 200 mg will be absorbed. Approximately 10 g of calcium will be filtered daily through the kidney and most will be reabsorbed with about 200 mg being excreted in the urine. The normal 24-hour excretion of calcium may however vary between approximately 100 and 300 mg per day (2.5 to 7.5 mmoles per day). The skeleton, a storage site of about 1 kg of calcium, is the major calcium reservoir in the body and bone turnover (bone formation coupled with bone resorption) will determine the net entry of calcium into or egress of calcium out of the skeleton. When bone turnover is balanced, approximately 500 mg of calcium is released from bone per day and the equivalent amount is accreted per day ( Fig. 1 ). Figure 1. Calcium balance. On average, if, in a typical adult approximately 1g of elemental calcium (Ca +2 ) is ingested per day, about 200mg/day will be absorbed and 800mg/day excreted. Approximately 1kg of Ca +2 is stored in bone and about 500mg/day is released by resorption or deposited during bone formation. Of the 10g of Ca +2 filtered through the kidney per day only about 200mg appears in the urine, the remainder being reabsorbed. Tight regulation of the ECF calcium concentration is maintained through the action of calcium-sensitive cells which modulate the production of hormones ( 2 - 5 ). These hormones act on specific cells in bone, gut and kidney which can respond by altering fluxes of calcium to maintain ECF calcium. The parathyroid glands detect ECF calcium via a calcium sensing receptor (CaSR) ( 6 ). Thus, a reduction in ECF calcium can reduce stimulation of the parathyroid CaSR and facilitate release of parathyroid hormone (PTH) from the parathyroid glands in the neck. PTH can then act to enhance calcium reabsorption in the kidney while at the same time inhibit phosphate reabsorption producing phosphaturia. Reduced ECF calcium per se can also act via a CaSR in the loop of Henle to allow renal calcium reabsorption. PTH and hypocalcemia can both stimulate the conversion of the inert metabolite of vitamin D, 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D], to the active moiety 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH) 2 D] ( 7 ), which in turn will enhance intestinal calcium absorption, and to a lesser extent phosphate reabsorption. 1,25(OH) 2 D can stimulate the production of the hormone fibroblast growth factor 23
