Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


), which in turn will enhance intestinal calcium absorption, and to a lesser extent phosphate reabsorption. 1,25(OH) 2 D can stimulate the production of the hormone fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) from osteocytes in bone and the released FGF23 can inhibit phosphate transport in the renal proximal tubule and therefore cause phosphaturia and hypophosphatemia. PTH can also increase bone resorption and liberate both calcium and phosphate from the skeleton. The net effect of the increased reabsorption of renal calcium, the increased absorption of calcium from the gut, and the mobilization of calcium from bone, is to restore the ECF calcium to normal and to inhibit further production of PTH and 1,25(OH) 2 D. FGF23 elevation will also reduce 1,25(OH) 2 D production. The opposite sequence of events i.e., diminished PTH and 1,25(OH) 2 D secretion should occur when the ECF calcium is raised above the normal range and the effect of suppressing the release of these hormones should diminish skeletal calcium release, intestinal calcium absorption, and renal calcium reabsorption and restore the elevated ECF calcium to normal. Consequently, decreased levels of PTH and decreased levels of 1,25(OH) 2 D should accompany hypercalcemia unless the PTH or 1,25(OH) 2 D is the cause of the hypercalcemia. REGULATION OF THE PRODUCTION AND ACTION OF HUMORAL MEDIATORS OF CALCIUM HOMEOSTASIS Regulation of Parathyroid Hormone Production PTH is an 84 amino acid peptide whose known bioactivity resides within the NH 2 -terminal 34 residues. Consequently, a synthetic peptide, PTH ( 1 - 34 ) (teriparatide), can mimic many of its actions. The major regulator of PTH secretion from the parathyroid glands is the ECF calcium acting via CaSR. The relationship between ECF calcium and PTH secretion is governed by a steep inverse sigmoidal curve which is characterized by a maximal secretory rate at low ECF calcium, a midpoint or "set point" which is the level of ECF calcium which half-maximally suppresses PTH, and a minimal secretory rate at high ECF calcium ( 8 ). The rate at which ECF calcium falls may also dictate the magnitude of the secretory response with a rapid fall in ECF calcium stimulating a more robust secretory response. As well higher levels of PTH are observed at the same ECF calcium when calcium is falling rather than rising, producing a hysteresis response ( 9 ). CaSR has a large NH 2 -terminal extracellular domain which binds ECF calcium, seven
