Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


ECF calcium when calcium is falling rather than rising, producing a hysteresis response ( 9 ). CaSR has a large NH 2 -terminal extracellular domain which binds ECF calcium, seven plasma membrane-spanning helices and a cytoplasmic COOH-terminal domain. It is a member of the superfamily of G protein coupled receptors and in the parathyroid chief cells is linked to various intracellular second-messenger systems. Transduction of the ECF calcium signal via this molecule leads to alterations in PTH secretion. A change in ECF calcium will also produce a change in PTH metabolism in the parathyroid cell however this response is somewhat slower than the secretory response. Thus, a rise in calcium will promote enhanced PTH degradation and the release of bioinert mid-region and COOH fragments and a fall in calcium will decrease intracellular degradation so that more intact bioactive PTH is secreted ( 10 - 12 ). Bioinactive PTH fragments, which can also be generated in the liver, are cleared by the kidney ( 13 ). With sustained low ECF calcium there is a change in PTH biosynthesis which represents an even slower response. Thus, low ECF calcium, acting via CaSR leads to increased transcription of the gene encoding PTH and enhanced stability of PTH mRNA ( 14 , 15 ). Finally, sustained hypocalcemia can eventually lead to parathyroid cell proliferation ( 16 ) and an increased total secretory capacity of the parathyroid gland. Although sustained hypercalcemia can conversely reduce parathyroid gland size, hypercalcemia appears less effective in diminishing parathyroid chief cells once a prolonged stimulus to hyperplasia has occurred. Additional factors including catecholamines and other biogenic amines, prostaglandins ( 17 ), cations (e.g., lithium and magnesium), phosphate per se ( 5 ) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGFa) ( 18 ) have been implicated in the regulation of PTH secretion ( 5 ). The phosphaturic factor, FGF23, also suppresses PTH gene expression and secretion ( 19 ). One of the most important regulators appears to be 1,25(OH) 2 D which may tonically reduce PTH release ( 20 ), decrease PTH gene expression ( 15 ) and inhibit parathyroid cell proliferation ( 16 , 21 ). PTH Actions RENAL ACTIONS The kidney is a central organ in ensuring calcium balance and PTH has a major role in fine-tuning this renal function ( 22 - 24 ). PTH has little effect on modulating calcium fluxes in the proximal tubule where 65% of
