Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


PTH has a major role in fine-tuning this renal function ( 22 - 24 ). PTH has little effect on modulating calcium fluxes in the proximal tubule where 65% of the filtered calcium is reabsorbed, coupled to the bulk transport of solutes such as sodium and water ( 23 ). Nevertheless, in this region PTH binds ( 25 ) to its cognate receptor, the type I PTH/PTHrP receptor (PTHR1) a 7-transmembrane-spanning G protein-coupled protein which is linked to both the adenylate cyclase system and the phospholipase C system ( 26 - 28 ). Stimulation of adenylate cyclase is believed to be the major mechanism whereby PTH causes internalization of the type II Na + /Pi (inorganic phosphate) co-transporters, NaPi-IIa and NaPi-IIc, in the proximal tubule, leading to decreased phosphate reabsorption and phosphaturia ( 29 ). In this nephron region, PTH can, after binding to the PTHR1, also stimulate CYP27B1, the 25(OH)D-1a hydroxylase [1a(OH)ase], leading to increased conversion of 25(OH)D to 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 30 ). A reduction in ECF calcium can itself stimulate 1,25(OH) 2 D production. Finally, PTH can also inhibit Na + and HCO 3 - reabsorption in the proximal tubule by inhibiting the apical type 3 Na + /H + exchanger ( 31 ), and the basolateral Na + /K + -ATPase ( 32 ) as well as by inhibiting apical Na + /Pi cotransport. About 20% of filtered calcium is reabsorbed in the cortical thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle (CTAL) and 15% in the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and it is here that PTH also binds to PTHR1 ( 27 ) and again by a cyclic AMP-mediated mechanism ( 33 ), enhances calcium reabsorption. In the CTAL, at least, this appears to occur by increasing the activity of the Na/K/2Cl cotransporter that drives NaCl reabsorption and also stimulates paracellular calcium and magnesium reabsorption ( 34 ). The CaSR is also resident in the CTAL ( 35 ) and can respond to an increased ECF calcium by activating phospholipase A2, reducing the activity of the Na/K/2Cl cotransporter and of an apical K channel, and diminishing paracellular calcium and magnesium reabsorption. Consequently, a raised ECF calcium antagonizes the effect of PTH in this nephron segment and ECF calcium can in fact participate in this way in the regulation of its own homeostasis. Furthermore, the inhibition of NaCl reabsorption and loss of NaCl in the
