Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


segment and ECF calcium can in fact participate in this way in the regulation of its own homeostasis. Furthermore, the inhibition of NaCl reabsorption and loss of NaCl in the urine that results may contribute to the volume depletion observed in severe hypercalcemia. In the DCT, PTH can also influence transcellular calcium transport ( 36 ). This is a multistep process involving transfer of luminal Ca 2+ into the renal tubule cell via the transient receptor potential channel (TRPV5), translocation of Ca 2+ across the cell from apical to basolateral surface a process involving proteins such as calbindin-D28K, and finally active extrusion of Ca 2+ from the cell into the blood via a Na + /Ca 2+ exchanger, designated NCX1. PTH markedly stimulates Ca 2+ reabsorption in the DCT primarily by augmenting NCX1 activity via a cyclic AMP-mediated mechanism. SKELETAL ACTIONS In bone, the PTHR1 is localized on cells of the osteoblast lineage which are of mesenchymal origin ( 37 ) but not on osteoclasts which are of hematogenous origin. Nevertheless, in the postnatal state the major physiologic role of PTH appears to be to maintain normal calcium homeostasis by enhancing osteoclastic bone resorption, notably cortical bone resorption, and liberating calcium into the ECF. This effect of PTH on increasing osteoclast stimulation is indirect, with PTH binding to the PTHR1 on pre-osteoblastic stromal cells ( 38 ) and other cells of the osteoblast lineage including osteocytes ( 39 ) and enhancing the production of the cytokine RANKL (receptor activator of NFkappaB ligand), a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family ( 40 ). Simultaneously, levels of a soluble decoy receptor for RANKL, termed osteoprotegerin, are diminished facilitating the capacity for increased cell-bound RANKL to interact with its cognate receptor, RANK, on cells of the osteoclast series. Multinucleated osteoclasts are derived from hematogenous precursors which commit to the monocyte/macrophage lineage, and then proliferate and differentiate as mononuclear precursors, eventually fusing to form multinucleated osteoclasts ( 41 ). These can then be activated to form bone-resorbing osteoclasts. RANKL can drive many of these proliferation/differentiation/fusion/activation steps although other cytokines, notably monocyte-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) may participate in this process ( 41 ). Endogenous PTH has also been shown to exert a physiologic anabolic effect, particularly on trabecular bone formation in both the fetus and neonate ( 42 , 43 ), and intermittent exogenous PTH administration can increase both cortical and trabecular compartments
