Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


anabolic effect, particularly on trabecular bone formation in both the fetus and neonate ( 42 , 43 ), and intermittent exogenous PTH administration can increase both cortical and trabecular compartments in adult mice. ( 44 ). PTH has been reported to increase growth factor production, notably insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) production, which may contribute to its anabolic effect ( 45 ). In addition, the anabolic effect of PTH in part lies via activation of the canonical Wnt growth factor signaling pathway, a critical pathway for bone formation. One mechanism of this activation is via inhibition of sclerostin ( 39 ), an osteocyte-derived antagonist of the Wnt pathway. PTH has been suggested to elicit increases in production and activity of cells of the osteoblast pathway and to decrease osteoblast apoptosis ( 46 ). It is conceivable that different modes of anabolic action occur depending on the stage of development of the organism and environmental stimuli. It has been noted that although increased PTH activity increases coupled bone turnover i.e., both osteoblastic bone formation and osteoclastic bone resorption, continuous exogenous administration of PTH in vivo can lead to net enhanced bone resorption and hypercalcemia whereas intermittent exogenous administration can lead to net increasing bone formation and therefore an anabolic effect ( 47 ). Regulation of Vitamin D Production Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) is a biologically inert secosteroid that is made in the skin ( 48 ). After exposure to sunlight 7-dehydrocholesterol is transformed by UVB radiation to previtamin D 3 which undergoes isomerization into vitamin D 3 . Vitamin D 3 is then translocated into the circulation where it is bound to the vitamin D-binding protein (DBP). There are no documented cases of vitamin D intoxication occurring due to excessive sunlight exposure most likely due to the fact that prolonged UVB exposure transforms both previtamin D 3 and vitamin D 3 to biologically inactive metabolites. Vitamin D 3 (and vitamin D 2 or ergocalciferol) can also enter the circulation after absorption from food in the gut notably fatty foods, fish oils, and foods fortified with vitamin D. In the liver, vitamin D can be converted to 25(OH)D by a cytochrome P450-vitamin D 25-hydroxylase (CYP2R1), which generally converts vitamin D to 25(OH)D almost constitutively ( 49 ). Consequently serum 25(OH)D is the most abundant circulating metabolite of vitamin D, reflects the integrated levels of vitamin D from both cutaneous and dietary sources, and can
