Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


also bind to discrete regions of the VDR and remodel chromatin, acetylate nucleosomal histones and contact the basal transcriptional machinery. Co-repressors can bind to the VDR in the absence of ligand and also modify its activity. Although ligand-independent VDR activation and non-genomic actions of 1,25(OH) 2 D have been reported their physiologic significance is currently unclear. A major biologic function of circulating 1,25(OH) 2 D is to increase the efficiency of the small intestine to absorb dietary calcium. Intestinal absorption of calcium occurs by an active transcellular path and by a non-saturable paracellular path. Active calcium absorption accounts for 10-15% of a dietary load ( 55 ). Active transcellular intestinal absorption involves (as does Ca +2 reabsorption in the kidney), three sequential cellular steps, a rate-limiting step involving transfer of luminal Ca +2 into the intestinal cell via the epithelial Ca +2 channel TRPV6, or via other calcium channels, intracellular diffusion, mediated by the Ca +2 -binding protein, calbindin-D9K or by other calcium binding proteins such as calmodulin, and extrusion at the basolateral surface into the blood predominantly through the activity of the Ca +2 -ATPase, PMCA 1b ( 56 ). 1,25(OH) 2 D, by interacting with the VDR ( 57 ) mainly, but not exclusively, in the duodenum, appears to increase all 3 steps by increasing gene expression of TRPV6, a channel-associated protein, annexin2 calbindin-D9K and to a lesser extent, the basolateral extrusion system PMCA1b ( 36 , 56 ). Calcium within the cell may also be sequestered by intracellular organelles such as the endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria which could also contribute to the protection of the cell against excessively high calcium. Increasing evidence now supports regulation by 1,25(OH) 2 D of active transport of calcium by distal as well as proximal segments of the intestine as well as paracellular calcium transport ( 58 ), and by modulating additional intestinal targets ( 59 ). Reductions in dietary intake of calcium can lead to increased PTH secretion and increased 1,25(OH) 2 D production which can enhance fractional calcium absorption and compensate for the dietary reduction. Although 1,25(OH) 2 D also increases phosphate absorption, mainly in the jejunum and ileum, nearly 50% of dietary phosphorus can be absorbed even in the absence of 1,25(OH) 2 D. Although vitamin D is known to be essential for normal mineralization of bone, its major role in this respect appears to be largely indirect i.e.,
