Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


absence of 1,25(OH) 2 D. Although vitamin D is known to be essential for normal mineralization of bone, its major role in this respect appears to be largely indirect i.e., by enhancing intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate in the small intestine, maintaining these ions in the normal range and thereby facilitating hydroxyapatite deposition in bone matrix. The major direct function of 1,25(OH) 2 D on bone appears to be to enhance mobilization of calcium stores when dietary calcium is insufficient to maintain a normal ECF calcium ( 60 ). As with PTH, 1,25(OH) 2 D enhances osteoclastic bone resorption by binding to its receptors in cells of the osteoblast lineage and stimulating the RANK/RANKL system to enhance the proliferation, differentiation and activation of the osteoclastic system from its monocytic precursors ( 41 ), but high concentrations may also inhibit calcium deposition in bone ( 61 ). Endogenous 1,25(OH) 2 D has also been reported to have an anabolic role in vivo ( 56 , 62 ). Although effects of 1,25(OH) 2 D on both calcium and phosphorus handling in the kidney have been reported, it remains uncertain whether 1,25(OH) 2 D plays a major role in altering renal tubular reabsorption or excretion of these ions in humans. Parathyroid Hormone Related Protein (PTHrP) PTHrP was discovered as the mediator of the syndrome of "humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy" (HHM) ( 63 ). In this syndrome a variety of cancers, essentially in the absence of skeletal metastases, produce a PTH-like substance which can cause a constellation of biochemical abnormalities including hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and increased urinary cyclic AMP excretion. These mimic the biochemical effects of PTH but occur in the absence of detectable circulating levels of this hormone. PTHrP is encoded by a single-copy gene, PTHLH , located on chromosome 12 whereas the gene encoding PTH is found on chromosome 11. Nevertheless, these two chromosomes encode many similar genes and are believed to have arisen by an ancient duplication event. Consequently, PTHLH and PTH may be members of a single gene family ( 64 , 65 ). The human PTHLH gene which is driven by at least three promoters, contains at least seven exons, shows several patterns of alternative splicing, and is considerably more complex than the PTH gene. Each gene encodes a leader or "pre" sequence, a "pro" sequence and a mature form. In the case of human PTH, the mature form
