Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


more complex than the PTH gene. Each gene encodes a leader or "pre" sequence, a "pro" sequence and a mature form. In the case of human PTH, the mature form is 84 amino acids. In the case of human PTHrP, 3 isoforms of 139, 141 and 173 residues can occur by alternate splicing, and sequences of these isoforms are identical through residue 139. Several common structural features of the PTHLH and PTH genes suggest that they are related. Thus, the major coding exon of both genes starts precisely at the same nucleotide, one base before the codons encoding the Lys-Arg residues of the prohormone sequences of each hormone. In the NH 2 terminus of both peptides, 8 of the first 13 amino acid residues are identical. These identities although limited are believed to be responsible for the similar bioactivities of the NH 2 terminal domains of these peptides ( 66 ), such that synthetic PTH ( 1 - 34 ) and synthetic PTHrP ( 1 - 34 ) interact with a common receptor (PTHR1) ( 26 , 27 ) and have similar effects on calcium and phosphate homeostasis. Thus, PTHrP is the second member of the PTH family to have been discovered. A hypothalamic peptide called tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP 39) appears to represent a third member of the PTH gene family ( 67 ) and can interact at a second PTH receptor termed the type II receptor (PTHR2) ( 68 ) (to which PTHrP does not bind ( Fig. 2 ). The precise physiologic role of TIP 39 (also called PTH2) and of PTHR2 remain to be elucidated, however the TIP39/PTHR2 system has been implicated in the control of nociception, fear and fear incubation, anxiety and depression-like behaviors, and maternal and social behaviors. It also appears to influence thermoregulation and potentially auditory responses ( 69 ). Figure 2. PTH and PTHR gene families: PTHrP, PTH and TIP39 appear to be products of a single gene family. Although only nine amino acids in the NH2-terminal domains of these three peptides are conserved these are functionally important residues. The receptors for these peptides, PTHR1 and PTHR2, are both 7 transmembrane-spanning G protein-coupled receptors which seem to be products of a single gene family. PTHrP binds and activates PTHR1; it binds weakly to PTHR2 and does not activate it. PTH can bind and activate both PTHR1 and PTHR2. TIP39 can
