Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


a single gene family. PTHrP binds and activates PTHR1; it binds weakly to PTHR2 and does not activate it. PTH can bind and activate both PTHR1 and PTHR2. TIP39 can bind to and activate PTHR2 but not PTHR1. REGULATION OF PTHrP PRODUCTION In contrast to PTH, whose expression is limited mainly to parathyroid cells, PTHrP is widely expressed in many fetal and adult tissues ( 70 ). This is compatible with its primary role as a modulator of cell growth and differentiation. A major locus of regulation of PTHrP production is at the level of gene transcription although both regulated and constitutive secretion of the hormone have been described in various cell types ( 71 , 72 ). Key stimulators of gene transcription are a variety of growth factors and cytokines ( 73 ) including epidermal growth factor (EGF) ( 74 ), IGF-1 ( 75 ), and transforming growth factor b (TGFb) ( 76 ). Inhibition of growth factor action, by employing a farnesyl transferase inhibitor to decrease ras-mediated cell signaling, has proved effective in inhibiting PTHrP production in vitro and in studies in vivo using an animal model of malignancy which overproduced PTHrP ( 77 ). Hypercalcemia associated with these tumors was also diminished. Several steroidal hormones including 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 78 ), glucocorticoids ( 79 ), and androgens ( 80 ) have been reported to be potent inhibitors of PTHrP gene expression. This prompted the use of 1,25(OH) 2 D ( 81 ) and of low calcemic analogues of vitamin D ( 82 ) in studies with tumor cells, both in vitro and in animals in vivo, to determine if overproduction of PTHrP by these tumors could be inhibited. Indeed, PTHrP production was inhibited, the associated hypercalcemia was reduced, and survival of the animals was increased. PTHrP is biosynthesized as a precursor form, proPTHrP and the propeptide must be cleaved to the mature peptide in order to achieve optimal bioactivity. This occurs by prohormone convertase activity ( 83 ). This processing locus was attacked using a furin antisense approach to block prohormone convertase activity in an animal tumor model which overproduces PTHrP ( 84 ). Bioactive PTHrP production was diminished with this intervention, and, in vivo, the hypercalcemia associated with the control tumor was not observed. Serine proteases may also act on PTHrP internally, in various cell types, to cleave an NH 2 terminal fragment, a midregion
