Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


hypercalcemia associated with the control tumor was not observed. Serine proteases may also act on PTHrP internally, in various cell types, to cleave an NH 2 terminal fragment, a midregion fragment ( 85 ) and carboxyl terminal fragments ( 86 ) from the mature forms, each with apparently distinct bioactivities. The in vivo significance of this processing remains to be determined. Nevertheless, PTHrP has been described as a polyhormone. PTHrP ACTIONS The major effects of PTHrP appear to be mediated by binding of an NH 2 terminal domain, PTHrP ( 1 - 36 ), to the PTHR1 linked to adenylate cyclase, or phospholipase C. In some developing tissues, e.g., teeth. PTHrP is expressed in epithelial cells whereas the PTHR1 is in adjacent mesenchymal cells facilitating epithelial-mesenchymal interactions ( 87 ). A mid-region domain of PTHrP ( 37 - 86 ) has been implicated in placental calcium transport ( 85 ) and a COOH terminal region ( 107 - 139 ) has been reported to inhibit osteoclasts ( 86 ). Nevertheless, distinct receptors for these putative bioactive regions have not been described. A bipartite nuclear localization sequence (NLS) has been discovered in PTHrP at sequence positions 87 to 106 and has been shown to be capable, in vitro, of directing PTHrP to the nucleus and, in fact, to the nucleolus ( 88 ). Translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is facilitated by binding to importin beta and seems cell cycle dependent. Although cyclin-dependent (cdc2) kinase can phosphorylate PTHrP this may not be the sole regulator of PTHrP nuclear import ( 89 ). Inasmuch as PTHrP contains a presequence or leader sequence which directs it to the secretory pathway, 3 pathways have been postulated which could lead it to access to the cytoplasm and thence the nucleus. Thus, PTHrP has been shown in some studies to be internalized after secretion and to access the cytoplasm by this route ( 90 ). Reverse transport of PTHrP from the endoplasmic reticulum to the cytoplasm has been reported in other studies ( 91 ). Finally, alternate initiation of translation at downstream non-AUG codons that allowed nascent PTHrP to bypass ER transit and localize to the nucleus and nucleolus has also been reported ( 92 ). In vitro studies have suggested that nuclear localization of PTHrP may be involved in its proliferative activity and/or in inhibition of apoptosis ( 87 ), and in vivo, PTHrP
