Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


). In vitro studies have suggested that nuclear localization of PTHrP may be involved in its proliferative activity and/or in inhibition of apoptosis ( 87 ), and in vivo, PTHrP “knockin” mice have been reported which express truncated forms of PTHrP that lack the NLS and the carboxyl -terminus but retain the amino terminus and the capacity to bind to PTHR1. The resulting mutants show growth retardation, defects in multiple organs and early lethality. Consequently, these studies indicate a functional in vivo role for the nuclear localization of this protein ( 93 , 94 ). Overall, reported physiologic effects of PTHrP can be grouped into those relating to ion homeostasis; those relating to smooth muscle relaxation; and those associated with cell growth, differentiation and apoptosis. The majority of the physiological effects of PTHrP appear to occur by short-range i.e., paracrine/autocrine and intracrine mechanisms rather than long-range i.e. endocrine mechanisms. With respect to ion homeostasis PTHrP can modulate placental calcium transport and appears necessary for normal fetal calcium homeostasis ( 95 ). In the adult, however the major role in calcium and phosphorus homeostasis appears to be carried out by PTH rather than by PTHrP in view of the fact that PTHrP concentrations in normal adults are either very low or undetectable. This situation reverses when neoplasms constitutively hypersecrete PTHrP in which case PTHrP mimics the effects of PTH on bone and kidney and the resultant hypercalcemia suppresses endogenous PTH secretion. PTHrP has been shown to cause smooth muscle relaxation in a variety of tissues including blood vessels ( 96 ) (leading to dilatation), uterus ( 97 ), and bladder ( 98 ). The physiologic significance of these effects however remains to be determined. Finally, PTHrP has been shown to modify cell growth, differentiated function and programmed cell death in a variety of different fetal and adult tissues. Most notable have been breast ( 99 ), skin ( 100 ), nervous tissue ( 101 ) and pancreatic islets ( 102 ) where PTHrP appears to function to assure normal development. The most striking developmental effects of PTHrP however have been in the skeleton. Targeted deletion of the PTHrP gene in mice produces a lethal chondrodysplasia ( 103 , 104 ), demonstrating the important and non-redundant role of PTHrP in endochondral bone formation. Animals die at birth, although the cause of death is uncertain. A major alteration appears to occur in the
