Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


the important and non-redundant role of PTHrP in endochondral bone formation. Animals die at birth, although the cause of death is uncertain. A major alteration appears to occur in the cartilaginous growth plate where, in the absence of PTHrP, chondrocyte proliferation is reduced and accelerated chondrocyte differentiation and apoptosis occurs. Increased bone formation occurs, apparently due to secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 42 ) and the overall effect is a severely deformed skeleton. Even more severe skeletal dysplasia occurs when either the gene encoding the PTHR1 itself ( 105 ) or the genes encoding both PTH and PTHrP are deleted ( 42 ). Both models produce similar phenotypes in mice. In the PTHrP knock-in mice that express PTHrP ( 1 - 84 ) but not the NLS or carboxyl terminus, the epiphyseal growth plate was markedly abnormal in this model, but the abnormality consisted of a reduced proliferative zone but normal hypertrophic zone architecture, suggesting that secreted and intracellular PTHrP may act synergistically to regulate the growth plate. In humans, an inactivating mutation of the PTHR1 produces a similar lethal chondro-osseous dysplasia termed Blomstrand's Syndrome ( 106 , 107 ). Consequently these in vivo observations demonstrate that PTHrP is essential, at least for normal development of the cartilaginous growth plate and endochondral bone formation. Interestingly mice that are heterozygous for PTHrP ablation appear normal at birth but develop reduced trabecular bone as they age demonstrating an osseous phenotype due to haploinsufficiency ( 37 ). This has been shown to be via a paracrine effect of PTHrP located in osteoblastic cells ( 108 ). Furthermore, hypoparathyroid mice that have PTHrP haploinsufficiency do not develop the increased trabecular bone mass that is a characteristic of hypoparathyroidism ( 109 ). PTHrP knock-in mice that express PTHrP ( 1 - 84 ) but lack the NLS and carboxyl terminus also appear to develop reductions in osteoblastic activity again suggesting synergy between the extra-cellular and intracellular actions of PTHrP ( 110 ). In humans, variants of the PTHLH gene have been associated with achievement of peak bone mass and in genome wide association studies have been associated with reduced bone mineral density. Overall, therefore the two ligands of PTHR1 i.e., PTH and PTHrP appear to have differing roles in utero and post-natally. In the fetus PTH appears to exert anabolic activity in trabecular bone whereas PTHrP regulates the orderly development of the growth plate. In contrast, in
