Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


roles in utero and post-natally. In the fetus PTH appears to exert anabolic activity in trabecular bone whereas PTHrP regulates the orderly development of the growth plate. In contrast, in postnatal life, PTHrP acting as a paracrine/autocrine modulator assumes an anabolic role for bone whereas PTH predominantly defends against a decrease in extracellular fluid calcium by resorbing bone. MEDIATORS OF BONE REMODELING Normal adult bone is constantly undergoing "turnover" or remodeling ( 111 ). This is characterized by sequences of activation of osteoclasts followed by osteoclastic bone resorption followed by osteoblastic bone formation, which occur on the same bone surface. The process of bone modelling is the predominant event in the growing skeleton and can lead to changes in skeletal shape, but the process can also persist into adult bone; modelling is characterized by bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts acting on different bone surfaces and acting independent of each other, resulting in changes in bone size and shape. The sequential cellular activities in remodeling occur on the same bone surface in focal and discrete packets in both trabecular and cortical bone and are termed bone remodeling units or bone multicellular units (BMUs). This coupling of osteoblastic bone formation to bone resorption may occur via the action of growth factors released by resorbed bone e.g., TGFb, IGF-1 and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) which can induce osteoclast apoptosis and also induce chemotaxis of osteoblast precursors, including mesenchymal stem cells, and facilitate their proliferation and differentiation at the site of repair. Homodimeric platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) composed of two B units (PDGF-BB) may also be released from matrix and induce blood vessel formation that may also provide progenitor cells for later differentiation into osteoblasts and bone formation ( 112 ). In addition, direct activation of cells of the osteoblast phenotype by osteoclast family members appears to occur, and such “coupling “mechanisms include a number of secreted factors, as well as molecules involved in direct cell–cell communication between osteoclasts and the osteoblast lineage. Although a number of molecular signals regulating this direct osteoclast-osteoblast coupling process have been described ( 113 ), their precise in vivo role remains to be established. A number of additional systemic and local factors regulate the process of bone remodeling. In general, those factors which enhance bone resorption may do so by creating an imbalance between the depth of osteoclastic bone erosion and the extent of osteoblastic repair or by
