Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


In general, those factors which enhance bone resorption may do so by creating an imbalance between the depth of osteoclastic bone erosion and the extent of osteoblastic repair or by increasing the numbers of remodeling units which are active at any given time i.e., by increasing the activation frequency of bone remodeling. These latter processes can also result in thinning and ultimately in perforation of trabecular bone and in increased porosity of cortical bone. One predominant example in which osteoblastic activity does not completely repair and replace the defect left by previous resorption is in multiple myeloma; in this case it has been reported that myeloma cells may release inhibitors of the Wnt signaling pathway such as the protein Dickoff (Dkk) which inhibit osteoblast production ( 114 ), while stimulation of osteoclastic resorption continues. Such an imbalance can occasionally also occur in association with some advanced solid malignancies. Systemic hormones such as PTH, PTHrP and 1,25(OH) 2 D can all initiate osteoclastic bone resorption and increase the activation frequency of bone remodeling. Thyroid hormone receptors are present in osteoblastic cells and triiodothyronine can stimulate osteoclastic bone resorption and produce a high turnover state in bone ( 115 ). Vitamin A has a direct stimulatory effect on osteoclasts and can induce bone resorption as well ( 116 ). A variety of local factors are critical for physiologic bone resorption and regulation of the normal bone-remodeling sequence and can be produced by osteoblastic, osteoclastic and immune cells. Thus, for example, interleukin-1 (IL-1) and M-CSF can be produced by both osteoblastic cells and by cells of the osteoclastic lineage. TNFα is released by monocytic cells, TNFβ (lymphotoxin) by activated T lymphocytes, and interleukin-6 (IL-6) by osteoclastic cells ( 117 ). All can enhance osteoclastic bone resorption. Leukotrienes are eicosanoids that are produced from arachidonic acid via a 5-lipoxygenase enzyme and can also induce osteoclastic bone resorption. Prostaglandins, particularly of the E series, may also stimulate bone resorption in vitro but appear to predominantly increase formation in vivo ( 118 ). Consequently, a variety of cytokines, growth factors, and eicosanoids may be produced in the bone environment and act to regulate the bone remodeling sequence. The inappropriate production of these regulators in pathologic conditions such as cancer ( Fig. 3 ) may therefore contribute to altered bone dynamics, altered calcium fluxes through bone, and ultimately in altered ECF calcium homeostasis. Figure 3. Production of
