Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


G. Aluminum Intoxication N. Ketogenic diet 7. Alterations in Muscle and Bone A. Immobilization B. Intense Exercise C. Rhabdomyolysis ENDOCRINE DISORDERS ASSOCIATED WITH HYPERCALCEMIA Endocrine Disorders Associated with Excess PTH Production . A detailed discussion of primary hyperparathyroidism appears in an associated Endotext chapter. Consequently, only selected issues will be addressed here. SPORADIC PRIMARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Sporadic PHPT is generally (at least 85-90% of cases) associated with a single parathyroid adenoma which overproduces PTH. Although 10-15% of cases may be associated with multigland hyperplasia, it seems prudent to consider that at least some if not most of these cases represent familial rather than sporadic disease ( 120 ). The presence of multiple adenomas should also suggest the possibility that all glands are involved as part of a familial syndrome. Malignant sporadic PHPT may occur as a consequence of parathyroid carcinoma, but is a relatively rare event (about 1% of cases). To date, the genes that are the most strongly implicated in parathyroid adenomas underlying sporadic benign PHPT are an oncogene CCND1, that encodes a key regulator of the cell cycle (cyclin D1) and MEN1 , a tumor suppressor gene, also implicated in familial multiple endocrine neoplasia type I ( 121 ). Mutations in CDKN1B/p27 and other cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor genes, including EZH2, ZFX, CTNNB1/β-catenin , have been seen in smaller subsets of sporadic adenomas ( 122 ). as have other cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor genes, including CDKN1A, CDKN2B, and CDKN2C which have each been implicated in familial forms of PHPT. Rare germline mutations in CDC73 (HRPT2 , a tumor suppressor gene associated with the Hyperparathyroidism-Jaw Tumor syndrome ( 123 ), and implicated in most sporadic parathyroid carcinomas ( 124 ). can occasionally be observed in sporadic adenomas. Additionally, mutations in C ASR, which has also been implicated in a familial form of PHPT (Familial Hypocalciuric Hypercalcemia), has occasionally been observed in sporadic PHPT ( 125 ). The glial cells missing 2 ( GCM2 ) gene (previously called GCMB) encodes the GCM2 transcription factor, which is essential to the development of the parathyroid glands and subsequent PTH expression. Activating variants of GCM2, which have been implicated in familial isolated hyperparathyroidism (FIHP) have also been reported as potential predisposition alleles in sporadic parathyroid tumors ( 126 - 129 ). Other important parathyroid regulatory pathways that may play a role in the pathogenesis of hyperparathyroidism are those related to the principal regulators or parathyroid cell
