Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


( 126 - 129 ). Other important parathyroid regulatory pathways that may play a role in the pathogenesis of hyperparathyroidism are those related to the principal regulators or parathyroid cell proliferation and PTH secretion i.e., 1,25(OH) 2 D, Ca +2 and phosphate. Rarely, sporadic hyperparathyroidism with hypocalciuria may occur, caused by inhibitory antibodies to the calcium-sensing receptor. This syndrome has been termed Autoimmune Hypocalciuric Hypercalcemia ( 130 ). The clinical manifestations of these disorders are caused by the overproduction of PTH and its effect on bone resorption, on its capacity to stimulate renal 1,25(OH) 2 D production and renal calcium reabsorption, and on the resultant elevation of ECF calcium which can result in an increased filtered renal load of calcium. Increased ECF calcium can itself increase calcium excretion by stimulating the renal tubular CaSR and inhibiting tubular calcium reabsorption ( Fig. 4 ). Three major clinical subtypes of benign sporadic PHPT, the most common form of PHPT, have been described ( 131 ). In Symptomatic PHPT, the symptoms and signs of hypercalcemia are present and are determined by the rate of increase in serum calcium, and the severity of the hypercalcemia. Symptomatic PHPT may also be associated with overt skeletal and renal complications that may include fractures and/or osteitis fibrosa cystica, and/or, chronic kidney disease, nephrolithiasis and/or nephrocalcinosis. In Asymptomatic PHPT, there are no overt symptoms or signs of hypercalcemia and the disorder is generally discovered by biochemical screening. After evaluation, target organ involvement may or may not be found. In the third subgroup, normocalcemic PHPT, skeletal or renal complications may or may not be found after clinical evaluation. About 80% of cases of patients with benign sporadic PHPT present as mild or “asymptomatic” hyperparathyroidism in which hypercalcemia is generally less than 1mg/dL (0.25 mM) above the upper limit of normal and may be normal intermittently ( 132 ). However significant increases in serum calcium may occur even after 13 years of follow up. Excess PTH production can produce significant bone loss. Classically this is manifested by discrete lesions including subperiosteal bone resorption of the distal phalanges, osteitis fibrosa cystica characterized by bone cysts and "brown tumors" (i.e., collections of osteoclasts intermixed with poorly mineralized woven bone), and ultimately fractures. However, although these manifestations were commonly seen in the past, they are less frequently seen today (2% of cases) (133136). Whether this severe bone disease reflects a delay in detecting
