Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


However, although these manifestations were commonly seen in the past, they are less frequently seen today (2% of cases) (133136). Whether this severe bone disease reflects a delay in detecting primary hyperparathyroidism early, or as seems equally plausible, is a manifestation of excess PTH action in the face of marginal or deficient vitamin D and calcium intake ( 137 ), remains to be determined. The more common skeletal manifestation of excess circulating PTH, reflects the "catabolic bone activity" of PTH, ( 138 ) and production of an osteoporosis clinical picture. Consequently, the severity of bone disease appears considerably diminished. Possibly as a consequence of less severe bone disease, hypercalcemia is also less marked, the filtered load of renal calcium is lower and the incidence of kidney stones and particularly of nephrocalcinosis has declined as well. Nevertheless, hypercalciuria still occurs in 35-40% of patients with primary benign sporadic hyperparathyroidism and kidney stones occur in 15-20% ( 139 ). About 25% of patients with mild (“asymptomatic”) sporadic PHPT have been reported to develop renal manifestations within 10 years, including renal concentrating defects or kidney stones. In regions of the globe, where relative or absolute vitamin D deficiency may limit the severity of hypercalcemia and therefore the filtered load of calcium, the incidence of nephrolithiasis (10-40%) does not appear to be as different as is the incidence of bone disease. The higher incidence of benign sporadic PHPT in women and in an older age group ( 140 ) also appears to distinguish the current presentation of this disorder in certain regions of the world. Overall, in countries where routine biochemical screening is common (with tests including serum calcium and albumin), although the incidence of PHPT rises, the presentation changes toward the asymptomatic and even the normocalcemic variants of PHPT. Healthcare system practices, as well as more routine biochemical screening of the population both appear to account for this ( 141 , 142 ). Figure 4. Disordered mineral homeostasis in hyperparathyroidism. In primary sporadic hyperparathyroidism PTH is generally overproduced by a single parathyroid adenoma. Increased PTH secretion leads to a net increase in skeletal resorption with release of Ca +2 and Pi (inorganic phosphate) from bone. PTH also increases renal 1α (OH)ase activity leading to increased production of 1,25(OH) 2 D from 25(OH)D and increased Ca +2 and Pi absorption from the small intestine. PTH also enhances renal Ca +2 reabsorption and inhibits Pi
