Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


to increased production of 1,25(OH) 2 D from 25(OH)D and increased Ca +2 and Pi absorption from the small intestine. PTH also enhances renal Ca +2 reabsorption and inhibits Pi reabsorption resulting in increased urine Pi excretion. The net result is an increase in ECF calcium and a decrease in ECF phosphate. Abnormalities other than skeletal and renal have been associated with benign sporadic PHPT. These include gastrointestinal manifestations such as dyspepsia and acute pancreatitis. The incidence of peptic ulcer disease in sporadic PHPT is currently estimated to be about 10%, the same as in the general population but, the presence of multiple peptic ulcers may suggest the presence of multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MENI). Acute pancreatitis. may be a manifestation of hypercalcemia per se but is estimated to occur in only 1.5% of those with sporadic PHPT. Neuromuscular abnormalities manifested by weakness and fatigue and accompanied by EMG changes may occur although the pathophysiology is uncertain. The relationship of hypertension and other cardiovascular manifestations as well as neuropsychiatric symptoms to the hyperparathyroidism remains unclear inasmuch as the former is generally not reversible when the hyperparathyroidism is treated and the latter is quite common in the population at large and difficult to ascribe to hyperparathyroidism. Rarely, primary sporadic PHPT may present with severe acute hypercalcemia (parathyroid crisis) ( 143 ). Surgical removal of the parathyroid adenoma currently remains the treatment of choice if the serum calcium is consistently greater than 1mg/dL (0.25mM) above normal; if there is evidence of bone disease [i.e. a BMD T-score of <−2.5 at the lumbar spine, total hip, femoral neck, or 33% radius (1/3 site), and/or a previous fracture fragility or a fracture diagnosed on imaging ( densitometric vertebral fracture assessment [ VFA] or vertebral X-ray) ]; if there is evidence of renal involvement [i.e. if eGFR or creatinine clearance is reduced to <60 ml/min, the urinary calcium excretion is greater than 250mg/d (>6.2 mmol) for women or greater than 300mg/d (>7.48 mmol) for men, or it there is evidence of nephrocalcinosis or nephrolithiasis by ultrasound or x-ray or other imaging modality; ( 144 ). Surgery is also indicated if the patient is less than age 50. and in patients for whom medical surveillance is either not desired or not possible ( 145 ). Parathyroid imaging is not recommended to establish or confirm the diagnosis of PHPT, but has become routine for preoperative localization
