Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


is either not desired or not possible ( 145 ). Parathyroid imaging is not recommended to establish or confirm the diagnosis of PHPT, but has become routine for preoperative localization of the abnormal parathyroid tissue. The most commonly employed preoperative parathyroid imaging techniques are radionuclide imaging (i.e., technetium-99 m-sestamibi subtraction scintigraphy), high resolution neck ultrasound and contrast-enhanced four dimensional (4D) computed tomography (CT). Magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography scanning, arteriography, and selective venous sampling for PTH are usually reserved for patients who have not been cured by previous explorations or for whom other localization techniques are not informative or are discordant. The type of surgical procedure i.e., noninvasive or standard, and the use of operative adjuncts (e.g., rapid PTH assay) is institution specific and should be based on the expertise and resource availability of the surgeon and institution. Where more than one gland is enlarged it is reasonable to assume that this is multiple glandular disease and removal of 3½ glands is indicated. Severe, chronic hypercalcemia is more commonly associated with parathyroid carcinoma. Complete resection of the primary lesion is urgent in this case. For those patients with PHPT who meet guidelines for surgery but are unable or unwilling to undergo parathyroidectomy, medical therapy may be considered. Calcium intake should be 800 mg/day for women <50 and men <70 years of age, 1000 mg/day for women >50 and men >70 years old (corresponding to the U.S. Institute of Medicine nutritional guidelines). If necessary, vitamin D should be supplemented to achieve levels of 25OHD which are >30 ng/mL (70mmol/L) but less than the upper limit of normal for the laboratory reference range. The calcimimetic agent cinacalcet ( 146 ) (that mimics or potentiates the action of calcium at the CaSR) may be used be used in patients with PHPT with severe chronic hypercalcemia who are not surgical candidates, in order to reduce the serum calcium concentration into the normal range. Bisphosphonates, e.g., alendronate ( 147 ), or denosumab, can be employed to increase bone density if there are no contraindications. Bisphosphonates or denosumab in combination with cinacalcet can be considered to lower the serum calcium and to increase BMD. Although estrogen therapy has been advocated for the treatment of PHPT in postmenopausal women ( 148 ) potential adverse effects of estrogen therapy, including breast cancer and cardiovascular complications, make this option unattractive. The effect of conjugated estrogen on the
