Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


PHPT in postmenopausal women ( 148 ) potential adverse effects of estrogen therapy, including breast cancer and cardiovascular complications, make this option unattractive. The effect of conjugated estrogen on the reduction of serum calcium is inconsistent ( 149 , 150 ). Although selective estrogen receptor modulators may be an alternative ( 149 ), and a very short-term report with raloxifene demonstrated a significant reduction in the serum calcium concentration, ( 151 ) few long-term studies have been done to assess this. FAMILIAL SYNDROMIC PRIMARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Although familial PHPT syndromes are dominantly inherited, approximately 10% may occur through de novo pathogenic variants. Genetic evaluation should be considered for patients <30 years old, those with multigland disease by history or imaging, and/or those with a family history of hypercalcemia and/or a syndromic disease. Family history was the strongest predictor of hereditary PHPT in a recently reported cohort ( 152 ). Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia, Type 1 and 4 (MEN1 and 4) MEN1 is a familial disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance which is characterized by tumors in the anterior pituitary, parathyroid, and enteropancreatic endocrine cells (although tumors in several other endocrine and non-endocrine tissues may also be associated with the syndrome) ( 153 ) ( Fig. 5 ). Patients exhibit loss-of-function germline mutations in the tumor suppressor gene, MEN1 , which encodes the nuclear protein, menin ( 154 ). Tumors in a proband in at least 2 MEN1 sites (pituitary, parathyroid, or enteropancreatic endocrine cells) and in at least one of these sites in a first-degree relative confirms the clinical phenotype. The most common and the earliest endocrinopathy is PHPT (80-100% of cases) ( 155 ). In contrast to sporadic PHPT however MEN1 occurs in both sexes equally and patients are younger at the time of diagnosis. Furthermore, in contrast to the frequent occurrence of a single adenoma in sporadic disease, multigland involvement in an asymmetric fashion is the norm in MEN1. Enteropancreatic tumors are usually multiple and gastrinomas are the most common. These may produce the Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome, and occur in the duodenum as well as in the pancreatic islets. Gastrinomas can potentially produce considerable morbidity due to the potential for ulcers and the possibility of metastatic disease. Insulinomas, glucagonomas, VIPomas, and other islet tumors can occur as well. A variety of functioning anterior pituitary tumors can occur although prolactinomas are most frequent and anterior pituitary tumors may also be
