Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


VIPomas, and other islet tumors can occur as well. A variety of functioning anterior pituitary tumors can occur although prolactinomas are most frequent and anterior pituitary tumors may also be non-functioning. Finally, foregut carcinoids and other endocrine tumors have been described with lesser frequency and skin tumors such as facial angiofibromas and truncal collagenomas may occur and appear specific for MEN1. Probands or kindreds with MEN1-like features with germline autosomal dominant mutation of the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor CDKN1B, encoding P27 (Kip1) have been described and the syndrome named MEN4. Patients with MEN4 are characterized by the same combination of tumors as MEN1 but MEN4 is a rarer cause of hereditary PHPTH; thus, the prevalence of MEN4 among all MEN1 probands plus MEN1-like probands is approximately 1%. Figure 5. Familial hyperparathyroidism. Familial hyperparathyroidism (FHPT) can occur in the MENI Syndrome, in which MEN1 is mutated; in MEN4 in which CDKN1B is mutated; in the MEN2A Syndrome, in which RET is mutated; in FHH and NSHPT in which CaSR , GNA11 or AP2S1 is mutated; and in the Hyperparathyroidism-Jaw Tumor (HPT-JT) Syndrome in which CDC73 is mutated. Familial isolated hyperparathyroidism (FIH) refers to familial hyperparathyroidism in the absence of the specific features of the other documented syndromes and suggests that other genes relevant to parathyroid neoplasia await identification, although variants of several genes identified with syndromic FHPT have been found in some with this disorder.(eg MEN1, CDKN1B, CDC73, and GCM2). Patients with hyperparathyroidism due to MEN1 have multiglandular disease and surgical resection of fewer than 3 glands lead to high rates of recurrence. Consequently, either subtotal parathyroidectomy with 3½ gland removal or total parathyroidectomy is recommended. Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia, Type 2A (MEN2A) MEN2A is an autosomal dominant familial syndrome characterized by medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), pheochromocytomas, and hyperparathyroidism ( 156 , 157 ). This syndrome results from activating germline mutations in the rearranged during transfection ( RET ) protooncogene which is a receptor tyrosine kinase ( 158 ). Two variants of this disorder are MEN2B (also called MEN3) which includes familial MTC, familial pheochromocytomas, mucosal and intestinal neuromas, and a Marfanoid habitus, but no hyperparathyroidism, and familial MTC alone ( 159 ). Two other variants of MEN2 include MEN2 with cutaneous lichen amyloidosis, and MEN2 with Hirschsprung's disease. Analyses of RET mutations in these syndromes have provided good genotype-phenotype correlations ( 160 ). The dominant feature of the MEN2A syndrome is
