Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


lichen amyloidosis, and MEN2 with Hirschsprung's disease. Analyses of RET mutations in these syndromes have provided good genotype-phenotype correlations ( 160 ). The dominant feature of the MEN2A syndrome is MTC, a calcitonin-secreting neoplasm of thyroid C cells ( 161 ). Genetic testing for mutations in the RET oncogene is of value in considering prophylactic thyroidectomy to prevent MTC. Another major feature is pheochromocytomas which are frequently bilateral but which generally have low malignant potential. Hyperparathyroidism is milder and less frequent (5-20%) in MEN2A than in MEN1 but is also associated with multigland involvement in which gland enlargement may be asymmetric. The treatment of the hyperparathyroidism is as for MEN1. Hyperparathyroidism-Jaw Tumor Syndrome Hyperparathyroidism - Jaw Tumor Syndrome (HPT-JT) is an autosomal-dominant syndrome with incomplete penetrance and variable expression, caused by germline inactivating pathogenic variants in the tumor suppressor gene, Cell Division Cycle 73 ( CDC73 ) (formerly called HRPT2 ), which encodes a protein termed parafibromin. Patients may present with early onset of single or multiple cystic parathyroid adenomas which may develop asynchronously, and ossifying fibromas of the mandible and maxilla. These jaw tumors lack osteoclasts and therefore differ from "brown tumors" ( 162 , 163 ). Affected individuals also have an increased risk (15–38%) of developing parathyroid carcinoma. Surgical removal of the affected parathyroid tissue is clearly indicated in this disorder. A variety of renal tumors have been described in some kindreds and other e.g., uterine tumors have been described in others. Mutations in CDC73 , have been implicated in this syndrome ( 123 ), in sporadic parathyroid cancer ( 124 ), and in a minority of families with isolated hyperparathyroidism ( 164 ). Genetic testing in relatives can result in identification of individuals at risk for parathyroid carcinoma, enabling preventative or curative parathyroidectomy. FAMILIAR NON-SYNDROMIC PRIMARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Familial Isolated Hyperparathyroidism (FIH) Familial Isolated Hyperparathyroidism (FIH) has been reported in which familial PHPT occurs in the absence of any other manifestation of the familial disorders described. The genetic etiology of FIHP is not fully understood but can arise due to pathogenic variants in genes associated with syndromic PHPT such as MEN1, CDKN1B and CDC73 , which raises the possibility that FIHP is an incomplete manifestation of a syndromic form of PHPT. FIHP can also occur with activating pathogenic variants in GCM2. Such activating GCM2 variants may contribute to facilitating more aggressive parathyroid disease ( 165 ). Undoubtedly additional
