Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


form of PHPT. FIHP can also occur with activating pathogenic variants in GCM2. Such activating GCM2 variants may contribute to facilitating more aggressive parathyroid disease ( 165 ). Undoubtedly additional research will uncover new genetic mutations which contribute to the pathogenesis of these cases. Familial Hypocalciuric Hypercalcemia (FHH) and Neonatal Severe Primary Hyperparathyroidism (NSHPT) Familial hypocaliciuric hypercalcemia (FHH) ( 166 ), also called Familial Benign Hypercalcemia (FBH) ( 167 ) is an autosomal dominant inherited trait, causing a lifelong generally benign disorder of hypercalcemia. Inasmuch as the increased ECF calcium is inadequately sensed by altered CaSR function in the parathyroid gland, mild hyperplasia may also occur and "normal" levels or elevated levels of PTH are secreted despite the hypercalcemia. While most patients with FHH are asymptomatic, chondrocalcinosis and acute pancreatitis have occasionally been observed. Patients with FHH have often been misdiagnosed as having PHPT, since both disorders can have elevated or inappropriately normal PTH levels with elevated serum calcium. The hallmark feature of FHH is an inappropriately low urine calcium in relationship to the prevailing hypercalcemia i.e., a calcium/ creatinine clearance ratio (CCCR), which is typically < 0.01; nevertheless, 20% of FHH patients may have a CCCR > 0.01, and therefore be indistinguishable from individuals with PHPT. The molecular basis, in most cases, is a loss-of-function mutation in the calcium-sensing receptor ( CaSR ) gene ( 168 ) in which case the syndrome is now called FHH1. The protein product, CaSR, is a G-protein coupled receptor that predominantly signals via the G-protein subunit alpha-11 (Gα11) to regulate calcium homeostasis. As a consequence, in heterozygotes, diminished ability of the CaSR in the parathyroid cell and in the CTAL of the kidney to detect ECF calcium occurs leading to increased PTH secretion and enhanced renal tubular reabsorption of calcium and magnesium respectively, leading to hypercalcemia, and often hypermagnesemia. Inactivating variants in the GNA11 gene, encoding Gα11 have also been reported to cause the syndrome, now termed FHH2. Hypercalcemia may be milder in FHH2 than in FHH1 ( 159 ). Adaptor protein-2 δ-subunit (AP2 δ) plays a pivotal role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis of CaSR Missense variants of the AP2S1 gene, encoding AP2 δ may also occur. causing the syndrome, FHH3, which is associated with the highest serum calcium levels. All FHH forms are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Genetic testing may be of particular value when hypocalciuric hypercalcemia occurs in an isolated
