Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


with the highest serum calcium levels. All FHH forms are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Genetic testing may be of particular value when hypocalciuric hypercalcemia occurs in an isolated patient without access to additional family members or familial isolated hyperparathyroidism (FIH) occurs in the absence of classical features of FHH. In view of the fact that the increased renal reabsorption of calcium related to loss of CaSR function, and therefore hypercalcemia, persist after parathyroidectomy, and that the patients are generally asymptomatic, it is important to identify these patients to ensure that they are not subjected to parathyroidectomy. Individuals who are homozygous for the mutated genes, or who are compound heterozygotes and therefore have little functional CaSR, can develop Neonatal Severe Hyperparathyroidism (NSHPT) ( 169 ). This disorder generally presents within a week of birth and is characterized by severe life-threatening hypercalcemia, hypermagnesemia, increased circulating PTH concentrations, massive hyperplasia of the parathyroid glands and relative hypocalciuria. Skeletal abnormalities include demineralization, widening of the metaphyses, osteitis fibrosa and fractures. This disorder may be lethal without urgent total parathyroidectomy. Heterozygous inactivating variants in CASR can also present in the neonatal period with a less severe, intermediate form of PHPT. Autoimmune Hypocalciuric Hypercalcemia A biochemical phenotype of PTH-dependent hypercalcemia resembling that caused by heterozygous inactivating mutations of the CaSR in FHH1 can be observed in patients with antibodies to the extracellular domain of CaSR, which appear to inhibit activation of the CaSR by ECF Ca, and thereby stimulate PTH release. Autoimmune hypocalciuric hypercalcemic is an acquired disorder of extracellular calcium sensing that should be differentiated from that caused by inactivating mutations of the CasR ( 170 ). TERTIARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Tertiary hyperparathyroidism, is a clinical state due to the autonomous function of parathyroid tissue that develops in the face-of-long-standing secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 171 ). Tertiary hyperparathyroidism may occur with monoclonal expansion of nodular areas of the parathyroid gland. These in turn can be associated with decreased VDR and decreased CaSR expression which may lead to an increased set point for PTH secretion. The most common circumstance in which this occurs is in chronic renal failure where 1,25(OH) 2 D deficiency, hyperphosphatemia and hypocalcemia produce chronic stimulation of the parathyroid glands. However, tertiary hyperparathyroidism may occur in malabsorption syndromes (e.g., active celiac disease, extensive bowel resection, gastric bypass surgery)., and has also been described in some cases of X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets, or other hypophosphatemic osteomalacias,
