Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


occur in malabsorption syndromes (e.g., active celiac disease, extensive bowel resection, gastric bypass surgery)., and has also been described in some cases of X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets, or other hypophosphatemic osteomalacias, after long-term treatment with supplemental phosphate which is believed to induce intermittent slight decreases in ECF calcium and stimulation of PTH secretion. Tertiary hyperparathyroidism should be readily identified by the clinical context in which the hypercalcemia presents. In symptomatic patients, the use of the calcimimetic agent, cinacalcet, which enhances the capacity of ECF calcium to stimulate the CaSR, may be tried or surgical treatment may be required, i.e., either sub-total removal of the parathyroid mass or total parathyroidectomy. Endocrine Disorders Without Excess PTH Production HYPERTHYROIDISM Hypercalcemia has been reported in as many as 50% of patients with thyrotoxicosis ( 172 ). Bone turnover and resorption are increased due to direct effects of increased triiodothyronine on bone ( 173 , 174 ). The liberated calcium appears to suppress PTH release so that 1,25(OH) 2 D levels are reduced and renal calcium reabsorption is diminished. Treatment with a beta-adrenergic antagonist may reduce the hypercalcemia and therapy of the hyperthyroidism reverses the hypercalcemia ( 175 , 176 ). PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA Hypercalcemia has been reported with pheochromocytomas and may be due to excess PTHrP production ( 177 ). Serum PTHrP concentrations may be reduced by alpha-adrenergic blockers in these patients ( 178 ). VIPOMA Hypercalcemia has frequently been reported in association with the neuroendocrine tumor VIPoma but whether the hypercalcemia is due to the overproduction of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) per se causing bone resorption or to other co-secreted peptides such as PTHrP is uncertain ( 179 ). HYPOADRENALISM Although both primary and secondary hypoadrenalism have been associated with hypercalcemia ( 180 , 181 ), the underlying etiology is unclear. Ionized calcium appears to be elevated and PTH and 1,25(OH) 2 D are suppressed. The hypercalcemia is reversed by volume expansion and glucocorticoids. JANSEN’S METAPHYSEAL CHONDRODYSPLASIA Jansen's Syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant form of short-limbed dwarfism in which neonates presents with metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, hypercalcemia, and hypophosphatemia which is lifelong ( 182 ). PTH and PTHrP levels in serum are undetectable but renal tubular reabsorption of phosphate is decreased and urinary cyclic AMP is increased. An activating mutation of the PTHR1 has been described in such patients. A variety of skeletal abnormalities have been noted which reflect the overactivity of PTH and PTHrP during development,
