Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


An activating mutation of the PTHR1 has been described in such patients. A variety of skeletal abnormalities have been noted which reflect the overactivity of PTH and PTHrP during development, growth and in the adult skeleton. MALIGNANCY-ASSOCIATED HYPERCALCEMIA It has been estimated that hypercalcemia can occur in up to 10% of malignancies. Malignancy-associated hypercalcemia (MAH) can occur in the presence or the absence of elevated PTHrP production. Using two-site immunoradiometric assays for PTHrP several groups have confirmed that 50-90% of patients with solid tumors and hypercalcemia and 20-60% of patients with hematologic malignancies and hypercalcemia have elevated circulating PTHrP. MAH both with and without elevated serum PTHrP concentrations will therefore be discussed. MAH With Elevated PTHrP HISTORICAL CONSIDERATIONS The association between hypercalcemia and neoplastic disease was first reported in the 1920's and the suggestion was made that the direct osteolytic action of malignant cells was responsible for the release of calcium from bone, resulting in hypercalcemia ( 183 ). An association between neoplasia and hypercalcemia was later reported in the English medical literature ( 184 ). In 1941 Fuller Albright, while discussing a case of a patient with a renal cell carcinoma, who in fact had a bone metastasis, noted that hypophosphatemia should not have accompanied the hypercalcemia if the tumor was simply producing hypercalcemia by causing osteolysis ( 185 ). He suggested that the tumor might be secreting a hypercalcemic substance which was also phosphaturic. Consequently, the concept of "ectopic" PTH production by tumors arose and lead to the term “ectopic hyperparathyroidism” ( 186 ) or “pseudohyperparathyroidism”. Nevertheless, immunoreactive PTH could not be detected in the circulation of these patients ( 187 ) and PTH mRNA could not be detected in their tumors ( 188 ). To circumvent these issues, bioassays sensitive to PTH were employed to identify PTH-like bioactivity in blood and tumor extracts ( 189 , 190 ) and eventually to identify a novel protein ( 191 ), PTHrP. Despite the limited homology of PTH and PTHrP within the NH 2 -terminal 13 amino acids, PTH ( 1 - 34 ) and PTHrP ( 1 - 34 ) exhibit similar effects on raising blood calcium and lowering blood phosphorus, reducing renal calcium clearance, and inhibiting the renal tubular reabsorption of phosphate. The molecular basis of these effects was shown to be cross-reactivity at the PTHR1. In animal models of MAH associated with high PTHrP secretion, passive immunization
