Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


tubular reabsorption of phosphate. The molecular basis of these effects was shown to be cross-reactivity at the PTHR1. In animal models of MAH associated with high PTHrP secretion, passive immunization with PTHrP antiserum reduced hypercalcemia ( 192 , 193 ). Initially after passive immunization, urine calcium increased reflecting reduction in PTHrP induced renal calcium reabsorption; only subsequently did urine calcium decline as bone resorption was neutralized and the filtered load of calcium fell ( 193 ). Consequently, the hypercalcemia induced by PTHrP involved a renal mechanism as well as an osseous one. Other similarities were noted between PTHrP and PTH including similar capacities to raise 1,25(OH) 2 D levels ( 194 ) and effects on bone characterized, for both PTHrP and PTH, by enhanced bone turnover and increased bone formation as well as resorption ( 195 ). HUMORAL HYPERCALCEMIA OF MALIGNANCY The classic neoplasms associated with hypercalcemia and excess PTHrP have few or no skeletal metastases, and are solid tumors ( Fig. 6 ). This constellation has been termed humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy (HHM). The availability of assays to detect PTHrP demonstrated a broad spectrum of tumors that produce the peptide ( 196 - 200 ). Hypercalcemia is notably associated with squamous cell tumors arising in most sites including esophagus, cervix, vulva, skin, and head and neck, but especially in lung. Renal cell carcinomas are also commonly associated with the syndrome as are bladder and ovarian carcinomas. On the other hand, patients with colon, gastric, prostate, thyroid, and non-squamous cell lung cancers manifest hypercalcemia much less commonly. Figure 6. Growth factor-regulated PTHrP production in tumor states. Tumor cells at a distance from bone may be stimulated by autocrine growth factors (GF) to increase production of PTHrP which can then travel to bone via the circulation and enhance bone resorption. Tumor cells metastatic to bone (inset) may secrete PTHrP which can resorb bone and release growth factors which in turn can act in a paracrine manner to further enhance PTHrP production. PTHrP may itself promote tumor growth and progression. Inasmuch as PTHrP is broadly distributed in normal tissues, PTHrP secretion by tumors likely represents eutopic overproduction rather than ectopic PTHrP production. Although demethylation of the PTHrP promoter ( 201 ) and gene amplification ( 202 ) have been implicated as mechanisms responsible for PTHrP overproduction by malignancies, it seems likely that in most cases overproduction of PTHrP is driven by enhanced
