Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


gene amplification ( 202 ) have been implicated as mechanisms responsible for PTHrP overproduction by malignancies, it seems likely that in most cases overproduction of PTHrP is driven by enhanced gene transcription of tumor growth factors and by oncogenes which are signaling molecules in the growth factor pathways, e.g., TGF-β which can increase the Gli2 signaling molecule and stimulate PTHrP ( 203 ). Patients who manifest hypercalcemia usually present with advanced disease. These tumors are generally obvious clinically when hypercalcemia occurs, and carry a poor prognosis. Elevated PTHrP per se may be an independent prognostic factor signaling a poor prognosis ( 204 ). This appears to be because in addition to its role in hypercalcemia, ( 205 ) PTHrP produced by tumor cells acts in an intracrine manner, increasing cell survival, apoptosis resistance, and anoikis evasion, and in autocrine manner via the PTHR1 to increase tumor cell proliferation, survival, apoptosis resistance. PTHrP is also a potential candidate for premetastatic niche formation in bone marrow, causing expansion of myeloid cells required for forming a conducive niche for metastatic growth in bone. PTHrP can also upregulate tumor-surface expression of the GPCR,CXCR4(C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4) ( 206 ). PTHrP and TGFβ can also co-stimulate tumor cell production of IL-8, which can then further enhance CXCR4 expression. CXCL12, the natural ligand of CXCR4, is highly expressed in the bone microenvironment (as well as in other potential metastatic sites including lung and liver) and acts as a chemoattractant of circulating tumor cells, facilitating the homing of tumor cells to bone ( 207 ) and metastatic seeding. Thus, PTHrP participates in all steps of the metastatic process, including tumor growth, progression, invasion, migration and survival in bone in order to skeletal support metastases ( 208 ). Hypercalcemia in association with malignancy is generally more acute and severe than in association with primary hyperparathyroidism. ( 209 ). Nevertheless, as in primary hyperparathyroidism hypercalcemia is accompanied by hypophosphatemia, reduced tubular reabsorption of phosphorus, enhanced tubular reabsorption of calcium, and increased excretion of nephrogenous cyclic AMP, reflecting the PTH-like actions of PTHrP. Nevertheless, serum 1,25(OH) 2 D concentrations which are generally high or high normal in hyperparathyroidism are frequently low or low normal in HHM ( 210 ). This may reflect the higher levels of ambient calcium observed in HHM which may directly inhibit the renal 1a(OH)ase enzyme. In hyperparathyroidism, bone resorption is increased but osteoblastic bone formation
