Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


This may reflect the higher levels of ambient calcium observed in HHM which may directly inhibit the renal 1a(OH)ase enzyme. In hyperparathyroidism, bone resorption is increased but osteoblastic bone formation is also accelerated reflecting a relatively balanced increase in turnover. However, in HHM, osteoclastic bone resorption is markedly increased and osteoblastic bone formation may be reduced ( 211 ). The reasons for this uncoupling are unclear and could reflect the action of osteoblast inhibitory factors co-released from the tumor or in the bone microenvironment or perhaps the effect of the very high levels of calcium per se. SOLID TUMORS WITH ELEVATED PTHrP AND SKELETAL METASTASES Several studies have indicated that elevated PTHrP correlates better with hypercalcemia than does the presence or absence of skeletal metastases ( 196 , 198 , 200 ). This appears particularly relevant to certain neoplasms such as breast cancer which is commonly associated with hypercalcemia but is even more commonly associated with osteolytic skeletal metastases. Elevated circulating PTHrP concentrations ( 198 , 199 ) may contribute to the development of hypercalcemia in these cases in part through augmented bone resorption and in part through increased renal calcium reabsorption. PTHrP may also contribute to the pathogenesis of local osteolytic lesions ( 212 , 213 ). PTHrP per se may be a supportive factor for the growth and progression of cancers by acting in paracrine, autocrine and intracrine modes to modulate tumor cell proliferation, apoptosis, survival, and anoikis, and can therefore influence cell processes which enhance the capacity for tumor dissemination and metastasis ( 205 ). In addition, tumors, such as breast tumors that are metastatic to bone, may release PTHrP in the bone microenvironment which will bind to cells of the osteoblastic lineage (including stromal cells, osteoblasts and likely osteocytes), release RANKL ligand (RANKL) and decrease osteoprotegerin (OPG), stimulate osteoclasts to resorb bone and release, in addition to calcium, growth factors such as TGFb ( 214 ), IGF-1 FGF, PDGF and BMP; released growth factors can then stimulate further PTHrP release from the tumor, thus setting up a positive feedback loop ( Fig. 6 , see above). PTHrP released from cancers such as osteoblasts may also release the chemokine and angiogenic factor CCL2/MCP-1 from osteoblasts which may also increase osteoclastic activity and potentially angiogenesis, and further enhance tumor proliferation ( 215 ). Consequently, the presence of skeletal metastases in association with a malignancy is not mutually exclusive
