Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


also increase osteoclastic activity and potentially angiogenesis, and further enhance tumor proliferation ( 215 ). Consequently, the presence of skeletal metastases in association with a malignancy is not mutually exclusive with high circulating PTHrP, which can contribute to the hypercalcemia, through both osseous and renal mechanisms; at the same time, locally released PTHrP may contribute to the focal osteolysis. It is in fact uncertain whether local osteolysis per se ever effectively raises ECF calcium in the absence of some cause of reduced renal calcium excretion. HEMATOLOGIC MALIGNANCIES WITH ELEVATED PTHrP Hematologic malignancies that may cause hypercalcemia ( 216 , 217 ) include non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic myeloid and lymphoblastic leukemia, adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) and multiple myeloma. ATL is an aggressive malignancy that develops after 20-30 years of latency in about 5% of individuals infected with human T-cell lymphotrophic virus type I (HTLV-I). This tumor can be associated with hypercalcemia and increased PTHrP production ( 218 ). The mechanism of PTHrP production appears to be stimulation of the PTHrP promoter by the viral protein TAX in the infected lymphoid cells, causing increased PTHrP gene transcription. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma may also be associated with increased PTHrP secretion and hypercalcemia and this appears to occur predominantly in patients with late-stage disease and high-grade pathology ( 217 ). Multiple Myeloma, although frequently associated with hypercalcemia (about 30% of cases) is rarely associated with increased PTHrP production. UTILITY OF PTHrP ASSAYS PTHrP assays that recognize NH 2 -terminal regions or mid-regions of the molecule, and two-site assays detecting two molecular epitopes have been developed. These assays have generally been quite sensitive and specific and successful in detecting PTHrP in MAH where PTHrP overproduction occurs. Circulating levels in normal individuals are generally low or undetectable. Studies have also shown that PTHrP levels do not fall after treatment of the hypercalcemia of MAH but do fall after reducing the tumor burden ( 198 , 219 ). Consequently, the assays may prove useful to track PTHrP as a tumor marker to monitor the course of therapy. Detection of elevated serum PTHrP concentrations in malignancy may, however, predict a poor prognosis ( 220 ). Nevertheless, further work is necessary to understand the identity of circulating PTHrP fragments in order to produce even more useful assays. In most reported NH 2 -terminal or mid-region assays, PTHrP levels may be elevated in some normocalcemic cancer patients. Whether this represents the detection
