Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


to produce even more useful assays. In most reported NH 2 -terminal or mid-region assays, PTHrP levels may be elevated in some normocalcemic cancer patients. Whether this represents the detection of bioinert fragments which might be useful as tumor markers or the detection of bioactive PTHrP which presages the development of hypercalcemia and therefore also has predictive value needs to be clarified. MAH with Elevation of Other Systemic Factors Although PTHrP is the principal mediator of MAH, and elevated circulating PTHrP levels correlate strongly with hypercalcemia in patients with common tumors of widely diverse histological origin, other systemic factors have been described which may act with PTHrP or in the absence of PTHrP. MAH WITH ELEVATED 1,25(OH) 2 D Concentrations of 1,25(OH) 2 D are generally normal or low in most patients with MAH, however elevated serum concentrations have been reported in some cases of non-Hodgkin's and Hodgkin's lymphoma in association with hypercalcemia ( 149 , 150 , 221 ). In view of the fact that extra-renal production of 1,25(OH) 2 D has been shown in various cell types and that renal impairment accompanied several of the reported lymphoma cases it seems likely that synthesis was occurring in the tumor tissue. This would be analogous to expression of a 1a(OH)ase enzyme in granulomatous tissue. Although it is likely that elevated 1,25(OH) 2 D contributed to the hypercalcemia, co-production of PTHrP has also been reported in some cases ( 216 ). Consequently, production of 1,25(OH) 2 D, lymphoid cytokines and PTHrP individually or in concert might all contribute to disordered skeletal and calcium homeostasis in these tumor states. MAH WITH ELEVATED CYTOKINES A variety of manifestations of malignancy including anorexia, cachexia, and dehydration may be due to tumor-produced circulating proinflammatory cytokines. Cytokines such as Il-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-11, TNF, and RANKL which are produced in the bone microenvironment have been identified as regulators of bone turnover. PTHrP released from tumors may increase the local production of several of these cytokines however animal studies have reported that tumor activity can increase systemic levels of certain cytokines such as IL-6 and IL-1 which may contribute along with PTHrP to skeletal lysis and hypercalcemia. Some studies of tumor models have implicated a soluble form of RANKL as contributing to MAH ( 151 ). Overall, therefore it seems likely that other modulators of skeletal and calcium metabolism may be secreted by malignancies and, generally in
