Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


of RANKL as contributing to MAH ( 151 ). Overall, therefore it seems likely that other modulators of skeletal and calcium metabolism may be secreted by malignancies and, generally in the presence but occasionally in the absence of PTHrP, may contribute to the dysregulation of bone and mineral homeostasis occurring with MAH. ECTOPIC HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Inasmuch as PTH per se is expressed mainly in the parathyroid gland, the secretion of PTH by non-parathyroid tumors constitutes true ectopic hyperparathyroidism. A number of such cases of MAH with true PTH production have now been well documented by immunological and molecular biological techniques ( 222 , 223 ). These tumors include ovarian, lung, thyroid, thymus and gastric malignancies ( 224 ). Consequently, true ectopic hyperparathyroidism may occur as a cause of MAH, but is rare. MULTIPLE MYELOMA Unlike other hematologic malignancies, multiple myeloma appears to have a special predilection to grow in bone ( 225 ). This may be related to production of growth factors, notably IL-6, by osteoblastic and osteoclastic cells, which facilitate its growth, and factors such as MIP-1a which may promote its adherence to bone. The annexin AXII axis also appears to play a critical role in supporting multiple myeloma cell growth and adhesion to stromal cells/osteoblasts in the bone marrow ( 226 ). In order to grow in bone, myeloma cells must secrete bone-resorbing factors. A number of such factors have been implicated including MIP-1a, IL-1, IL-6, TNF-b (lymphotoxin) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). Increased RANKL expression by stromal cells with decreased OPG expression also occurs in multiple myeloma and this correlates with the extent of the bone resorption ( 227 ). Although bone resorption is stimulated there is little active new bone formation. Consequently, the serum alkaline phosphatase, a marker of osteoblast function is usually normal and bone scans may be negative. Production by myeloma cells of Dickkopf-1 (DKK-1) protein, a soluble inhibitor of signaling via the Wnt pathway, an important growth factor pathway for osteoblasts, has been implicated in the suppression of osteoblast differentiation ( 228 ). Other Wnt signaling antagonists, such as soluble-frizzled-related protein ( 229 ) and sclerostin ( 230 ) have also been implicated in inhibition of osteoblast differentiation in myeloma. All patients with myeloma therefore have extensive bone destruction which may be discrete and focal or diffuse throughout the axial skeleton. Consequently, bone pain is a frequent complaint (80% of cases) and pathological fractures
