Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


therefore have extensive bone destruction which may be discrete and focal or diffuse throughout the axial skeleton. Consequently, bone pain is a frequent complaint (80% of cases) and pathological fractures are a disabling consequence. Although all patients develop osteolysis, hypercalcemia occurs in only about 30% of patients. It is likely that as long as renal function is intact and no circulating factor is produced which enhances renal calcium re-absorption (PTHrP is rarely produced by myeloma cells), increased renal excretion of calcium can accommodate the increased filtered load consequent to bone resorption. Impairment of renal function can occur however due to Bence Jones nephropathy or "myeloma kidney" (in which free light chain fragments of immunoglobulins are filtered and damage glomerular and tubular function), or due to amyloidosis, uric acid nephropathy, or recurrent infections. At this time hypercalcemia may become evident and be associated, because of the renal damage, with hyperphosphatemia rather than the hypophosphatemia occurring in other disorders causing MAH. Therapy aimed at inhibiting bone resorption (e.g., bisphosphonates) may therefore have a special effect in Myeloma, not only in reducing hypercalcemia but also in limiting tumor growth. Therapeutic Considerations for MAH Therapy of MAH should be directed primarily at treating the hypercalcemia, which may be of acute onset and considerable magnitude, and at treating the underlying tumor burden. Several approaches have been directed at reducing PTHrP production by those tumors in which PTHrP hypersecretion occurs. These include immunoneutralization ( 193 ), antisense inhibition, inhibition of growth factor stimulation through farnesyl transferase inhibition ( 77 ), inhibition of gene transcription with low calcemic vitamin D analogs ( 82 ), and convertase inhibition ( 84 ). To date these remain experimental but if PTHrP contributes to the local growth of the tumor, which some studies have reported, reduction of PTHrP levels may contribute not only to the long-term amelioration of skeletal and calcium homeostasis but also to a reduction in tumor burden. INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS CAUSING HYPERCALCEMIA Granulomatous Disorders Both infectious and non-infectious granuloma-forming disorders have been associated with 1,25(OH) 2 D-mediated hypercalcemia ( 231 ). Noninfectious disorders include sarcoidosis, silicone-induced granulomatosis, paraffin-induced granulomatosis, berylliosis, Wegener's granulomatosis, eosinophilic granuloma, NOD2 pediatric granulomatous arthritis, Crohn`s disease, Langerhan cell histiocytosis, and infantile fat necrosis. Infectious disorders include tuberculosis, candidiasis, cryptococcosis, leprosy, histoplasmosis, coccidiomycosis, and Bartonella Hensalae infection (cat-scratch disease). The disorder in which the hypercalcemia was first noted, is perhaps best documented, and has best been
