Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


include tuberculosis, candidiasis, cryptococcosis, leprosy, histoplasmosis, coccidiomycosis, and Bartonella Hensalae infection (cat-scratch disease). The disorder in which the hypercalcemia was first noted, is perhaps best documented, and has best been studied is sarcoidosis. Consequently, this will be discussed as a prototype of granulomatous diseases. Up to 50% of patients with sarcoidosis will become hypercalciuric during the course of their disease and mild to severe hypercalcemia will be detected in 10% ( 232 ). Hypercalciuria and hypercalcemia generally occur in patients who have widespread disease and high serum angiotensin-converting enzyme activity. Normocalcemic patients with sarcoidosis are prone to the development of hypercalciuria and hypercalcemia after receiving small amounts of dietary vitamin D or after exposure to UV light ( 233 ). This is due to the fact the serum 1,25(OH) 2 D levels in active sarcoidosis are exquisitely sensitive to increases in the 25(OH)D substrate levels. This leads to inappropriately elevated serum 1,25(OH) 2 D concentrations and absorption of high fractions of dietary calcium ( Fig. 7 ). PTH is suppressed and its calcium reabsorptive effect in the kidney is lost leading to hypercalciuria. However urinary calcium often exceeds dietary calcium intake suggesting a role for 1,25(OH) 2 D-mediated bone resorption as an alternate or additional source of filtered calcium and indeed accelerated trabecular bone loss and decreased bone mass has been documented in patients with active sarcoidosis ( 234 , 235 ). The source of the inappropriate 1,25(OH) 2 D is believed to be an extra-renal 1a(OH)ase (as in malignant lymphoproliferative disease) produced by macrophages which are prominent components of the sarcoid granuloma ( 236 ). This enzyme exhibits similar kinetics and substrate specificity as the renal 1a(OH)ase but is clearly not regulated as is the renal 1a(OH)ase by PTH, 1,25(OH) 2 D, calcium, or phosphorus. This extra-renal 1a(OH)ase does however appear to be suppressible by glucocorticoids ( 237 ), chloroquine ( 238 ) analogs, and cytochrome P-450 inhibitors such as ketoconazole ( 239 ). Figure 7. Disordered calcium homeostasis in granulomatous disease. Production of an extra-renal 1α(OH)ase by macrophages in a granuloma can increase conversion of circulating 25(OH)D to 1,25(OH) 2 D. This secosteroid will increase Ca +2 absorption from the gut and Ca +2 resorption from bone resulting in an increased ECF Ca +2 . The increased ECF Ca +2 and 1,25(OH) 2 D will inhibit PTH production by the parathyroid glands. The increased filtered load of Ca
