Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


in an increased ECF Ca +2 . The increased ECF Ca +2 and 1,25(OH) 2 D will inhibit PTH production by the parathyroid glands. The increased filtered load of Ca +2 through the kidney and suppressed PTH will contribute to hypercalciuria. Therapy of hypercalcemia associated with granulomatous disease is therefore aimed at reducing dietary intake of calcium and vitamin D, limiting sunlight exposure, and treating the underlying disease. Glucocorticoid therapy, if not already indicated for treating the underlying disease, or chloroquine analogs or ketoconazole should be considered to specifically decrease 1,25(OH) 2 D concentrations. Viral Syndromes: Autoimmune Deficiency Syndrome: HIV and CMV Infections A number of mechanisms may contribute to causing hypercalcemia in people living with AIDS however direct skeletal resorption has been described due to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HTLV-III, or cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections of the skeleton ( 240 ). Use of foscarnet as an antiviral agent has also been associated with hypercalcemia ( 241 ). PEDIATRIC SYNDROMES Williams Syndrome Williams Syndrome (William-Beuren Syndrome) is a sporadic disorder characterized by dysmorphic features including “elfin facies”, cardiac abnormalities, the most typical of which is supravalvular aortic stenosis, neurologic deficits, musculoskeletal abnormalities, and hypercalcemia ( 242 ). Hypercalcemia occurs in about 15% of cases and may be associated with increased sensitivity to vitamin D ( 243 ). Williams Syndrome has been associated with loss of genetic material at 7qll.23 which likely represents a continuous gene deletion that includes the elastin gene ( ELN ) and LIM-KINASE gene ( 244 ). The hypercalcemia typically occurs during infancy and resolves between 2 and 4 years of age. The pathophysiology is not well understood. but both abnormal 1,25(OH) 2 D metabolism and decreased calcitonin production have been suggested ( 245 ). Idiopathic Infantile Hypercalcemia Idiopathic Infantile Hypercalcemia is a disorder in which patients lack phenotypic features of Williams Syndrome and do not have a 7q11.13 deletion. However, they also manifest hypercalcemia in infancy which is associated with apparent vitamin D sensitivity and which resolves in the first few years of life ( 246 ). Loss-of-function mutations in CYP 24A1 , the gene encoding the 24-hydroxylase may occur. Consequently, inactivation of the active form of vitamin D, 1,25(OH) 2 D is impaired. This results in increased 1,25(OH) 2 D levels and enhanced calcium absorption and hypercalcemia ( 247 ). Loss-of-function mutations of SLC34A1 , encoding the renal proximal tubular sodium-phosphate cotransporter, Na/Pi-IIa result in phosphaturia,
