Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


increased 1,25(OH) 2 D levels and enhanced calcium absorption and hypercalcemia ( 247 ). Loss-of-function mutations of SLC34A1 , encoding the renal proximal tubular sodium-phosphate cotransporter, Na/Pi-IIa result in phosphaturia, hypophosphatemia, increased FGF23, stimulation of CYP27B1 and inhibition of CYP24A1 , causing increased 1,25(OH)2D and hypercalcemia hypercalciuria, and nephrocalcinosis which may also manifest as IIH. Hypophosphatasia Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is characterized by loss of function mutations in the gene ALPL (chromosome 1) encoding the tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNSALP) ( 248 ). Hypercalcemia is generally present mainly in the infantile form of the disease, where the hypercalcemia appears to result from reduced deposition of calcium in bone matrix. Hypercalcemia may resolve spontaneously within the first year of life or following targeted asfotase alfa enzyme replacement. Hypercalcemia may also occur in adults with HPP who have been immobilized. Congenital Lactase Deficiency Congenital lactase deficiency CLD, is an autosomal recessive disorder ( 73 – 76 ) caused by a mutation of the lactase-phlorizin hydrolase gene, Infants with CLD may develop increased calcium absorption in the ileum in the presence of nonhydrolyzed lactose, and hypercalcemia and medullary nephrocalcinosis may ensue. The hypercalcemia generally resolves quickly after a lactose-free diet is initiated but nephrocalcinosis may persist ( 249 ). Congenital Sucrase-Isomaltase Deficiency Hypercalcemia may possibly occur due to increased bone mobilization of calcium secondary to chronic metabolic acidosis. There may also be roles for dehydration, along with potential increase calcium absorption ( 250 ). MEDICATION-INDUCED HYPERCALCEMIA Thiazide Diuretics Thiazides reduce renal calcium clearance, however in the presence of a normal calcium homeostatic system (e.g., in the absence of primary hyperparathyroidism) this should not produce sustained hypercalcemia ( 251 ). Thiazides have however been reported to produce hypercalcemia in anephric individuals. Overall, therefore the mechanism is unknown although "unmasking" of mild underlying primary hyperparathyroidism has been suggested as a possible mechanism. Hypercalcemia is however a rare event in thiazide use and is rapidly reversed by discontinuing the medication. Lithium Lithium carbonate, at 900 to 1500 mg/day, has occasionally (5% of cases) been reported to cause hypercalcemia. Lithium may reduce renal calcium clearance and may also alter the set-point for PTH secretion such that higher ECF calcium levels than normal are required to suppress PTH ( 252 ). The hypercalcemia is generally reversible with discontinuation of therapy. Vitamin D and Analogues Excessive intake of vitamin D per se, of dihydrotachysterol, of 25(OH)D 3 , or of 1,25(OH)
