Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


). The hypercalcemia is generally reversible with discontinuation of therapy. Vitamin D and Analogues Excessive intake of vitamin D per se, of dihydrotachysterol, of 25(OH)D 3 , or of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 can all cause hypercalciuria and hypercalcemia by increasing gut absorption of calcium and bone resorption ( 253 ). Only vitamin D, (vitamin D 2 or vitamin D 3 ) is available without prescription. Vitamin D per se, is more lipid soluble and has a much longer retention time in the body (weeks to months) than the hydroxylated analogues (hours to days). Therapy consists of hydration, calciuresis, and if needed glucocorticoids and an anti-resorptive agent (bisphosphonate or denosumab). Vitamin A and Analogues Vitamin A, in greater than 50,000 IU/day, and its analogues cis-retinoic acid and all-trans-retinoic acid (used for the treatment of dermatologic and neoplastic disorders) have been associated with hypercalcemia ( 254 - 256 ). This appears to be due to enhanced bone resorption. Discontinuation of the medication, hydration and administration of an anti-resorptive agent would appear to be the treatments of choice. Antiestrogens (Tamoxifen) Hypercalcemia may occur when antiestrogens ( 257 ) such as tamoxifen are used to treat breast cancer metastatic to the skeleton. Increased bone resorption associated with osteolytic lesions appears to be the major mechanism possibly induced by cytokines and growth factors released when the tumor undergoes lysis. The “flare” hypercalcemia may require acute treatment but is usually self-limiting ( 258 , 259 ). Theophylline/Aminophylline Hypercalcemia has been reported with theophylline usage for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or asthma and appears reversible with cessation of therapy or amenable to treatment with beta – adrenergic antagonists ( 260 ). Aluminum Intoxication Aluminum intoxication was observed when large amounts of aluminum-containing phosphate-binding agents were prescribed to patients with chronic renal failure to control hyperphosphatemia. Alternatively, clustered outbreaks of aluminum intoxication occurred when inadequately purified water was employed for dialysis or for total parenteral nutrition ( 261 ). Aluminum intoxication can cause adynamic bone disease in patients with renal failure, and hypercalcemia possibly due to inadequate deposition of calcium in bone. In chronic kidney disease, removal of aluminum by treating with the chelating agent desferioxamine is effective in reducing serum calcium levels and improving mineralization. Less frequent use of aluminum-containing medications has considerably diminished the frequency of this disorder. Milk-Alkali Syndrome The classic milk-alkali syndrome causing hypercalcemia occurred in the past when large quantities of milk
