Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


frequent use of aluminum-containing medications has considerably diminished the frequency of this disorder. Milk-Alkali Syndrome The classic milk-alkali syndrome causing hypercalcemia occurred in the past when large quantities of milk and bicarbonate were ingested together to treat peptic ulcers. The modern-day equivalent appears to be consumption of large quantities of milk or other dairy products with calcium carbonate ( 262 ). Quantities of calcium that must be ingested to cause the syndrome are at least 3 g per day or more. Classically hypercalcemia is accompanied by alkalosis, nephrocalcinosis, and ultimately by renal failure. The alkali may enhance precipitation of calcium in renal tissue. Discontinuation of the calcium and antacid, rehydration and rarely, hemodialysis, can be useful for treatment. SGLT2 Inhibitors Case reports have documented reversible hypercalcemia with sodium-glucose cotransporter protein 2 inhibitors, likely due to osmotic diuresis and volume contraction. Underlying risk factors (dehydration, high calcium intake, thiazides, acidosis, undiagnosed PHPT) were typically present. Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Hypercalcemia has been reported infrequently with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). Mechanisms may include ICI-induced endocrine disorders (hyperthyroidism, adrenal insufficiency), sarcoid-like granuloma formation, ICI-related PTHrP production, or transient ICI-related “hyperprogression” of disease. Denosumab Hypercalcemia may occur after denosumab discontinuation due to “rebound” osteoclastic bone resorption. Most cases involve children younger than 18 years and those using denosumab for bone tumors and fibrous dysplasia. A few cases have been reported in adults treated for osteoporosis. Teriparatide, Abaloparatide Transient hypercalcemia can occur during teriparatide [PTH ( 1 - 34 )] treatment for osteoporosis, and usually resolves within about 16 h after administration. Abaloparatide, a synthetic analog of human PTHrP ( 1 - 34 ), also used as osteoporosis therapy, exhibits lesser hypercalcemic effects than PTH ( 1 - 34 ) because of faster dissociation of the PTHrP-PTHR1 agonist-receptor complex, than of the PTH-PTHR1 complex. Foscarnet Foscarnet is an antiviral medication, commonly used in the treatment and CMV infections. There have been rare reports of hypercalcemia in recipients. Ketogenic Diet A small number of children with epilepsy who were following a ketogenic diet have been reported to develop hypercalcemia. The mechanism, while not fully delineated, may be due to impaired osteoblast activity and deceased bone formation. ALTERATIONS IN MUSCLE AND BONE Immobilization Immobilized patients, in association with reduced mechanical load on the skeleton, continue to resorb bone whereas bone formation is inhibited. Thus, high bone resorption with negative calcium balance leading to osteopenia, osteoporosis, and hypercalcemia may
