Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


reduced mechanical load on the skeleton, continue to resorb bone whereas bone formation is inhibited. Thus, high bone resorption with negative calcium balance leading to osteopenia, osteoporosis, and hypercalcemia may occur from prolonged immobilization after burns, spinal injury, major stroke, hip fracture, and bariatric surgery ( 263 ). More severe hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria may occur in immobilized individuals with already high bone turnover such as growing children, patients with Paget’s Disease, or patients with primary hyperparathyroidism or MAH ( 264 ). Intense Exercise Hypercalcemia has been described in some individuals after hours of intense exercise; bone resorption markers increased and correlated with elevations in serum calcium and vasopressin levels. Rhabdomyolysis In the oliguric early phase of rhabdomyolysis (the rapid breakdown of damaged skeletal muscle), calcium and phosphate complex deposition in muscle may occur; in the later polyuric phase, the calcium and phosphate complexes in muscle may be mobilized, and redistributed, causing hypercalcemia. CLINICAL ASSESSMENT OF THE HYPERCALCEMIC PATIENT This discussion of the clinical assessment of the hypercalcemic patient will focus primarily on adult patients. Although many of the approaches are relevant to childhood and even neonates, detailed discussion of the issues relevant exclusively to the pediatric age group is beyond the scope of this chapter. History and Physical Examination The approach to the history and physical examination of the hypercalcemic patient should focus on the signs and symptoms which are relevant to hypercalcemia, and the signs and symptoms which are relevant to the causal disorder. Both duration and severity of symptoms should be ascertained. Hypercalcemic manifestations will vary depending on whether the hypercalcemia is of acute onset and severe (greater than 12 mg/dL or 3 mM) or whether it is chronic and relatively mild ( Table 2 ). Patients may also tolerate higher serum calcium levels more readily if the onset is relatively gradual, but at concentrations above 14 mg/dL (3.5 mM) most patients are symptomatic. In both acute and chronic cases, the major manifestations affect gastrointestinal, renal, and neuromuscular function. Patients with acute hypercalcemia commonly present with anorexia, nausea, vomiting, polyuria, polydipsia, dehydration, weakness, and depression and confusion which may proceed to stupor and coma. As well the QT interval on EKG may be shortened by hypercalcemia due to the increased rate of cardiac repolarization. Arrhythmias such as bradycardia and first-degree atrioventricular block, as well as digitalis sensitivity may occur. Acute hypercalcemia, therefore, can represent a life-threatening medical emergency.
