Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


the increased rate of cardiac repolarization. Arrhythmias such as bradycardia and first-degree atrioventricular block, as well as digitalis sensitivity may occur. Acute hypercalcemia, therefore, can represent a life-threatening medical emergency. Patients with chronic hypercalcemia may have a history of constipation, dyspepsia (generally not due to a true ulcer), pancreatitis, and nephrolithiasis but few other signs or symptoms. Table 2. Manifestations of Hypercalcemia View in own window Acute Chronic Gastrointestinal Anorexia, nausea, vomiting Dyspepsia, constipation, pancreatitis Renal Polyuria, polydipsia, dehydration, renal insufficiency Nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis, renal insufficiency Neuro-muscular Depression, confusion, hyporeflexia, stupor, coma Weakness, lethargy Cardiac Prolonged PR interval, short QT interval, widened QRS complex, bradycardia, digitalis sensitivity Hypertension The most frequent underlying causes (over 90%) of hypercalcemia are primary sporadic hyperparathyroidism and malignancy-associated hypercalcemia (MAH). In the West, the most frequent presentation of primary sporadic hyperparathyroidism is that of relatively "asymptomatic" disease with only intermittently or mildly (<12 mg/dL or 3 mM) elevated serum calcium concentrations ( 140 ). Occasionally a history is obtained of having passed a kidney stone either recently or in the remote past. Neck masses are unusual in primary hyperparathyroidism unless the patient has a particularly large adenoma or a parathyroid carcinoma. In contrast, the most frequent presentation of MAH is of acute, severe hypercalcemia with some or all of the manifestations of this mineral ion abnormality that are noted above. In view of the fact that hypercalcemia is generally a manifestation of advanced disease, tumors causing hypercalcemia are rarely occult. Consequently, evidence for an underlying malignancy may be obtained or suspected on history or physical examination. Endocrine disorders such as hyperthyroidism or hypoadrenalism should be suspected from a careful history and physical examination, and a history of ingestion of medication and supplements (e.g., calcium, vitamin D, thiazide diuretics, and vitamin A) which have been reported to cause hypercalcemia should be obtained. The presence of chronic granulomatous disease could be suspected on the basis of an accurate history and physical examination targeted to the known granulomatous diseases that cause hypercalcemia. Finally, a careful family history should provide clues as to whether the patient manifests any of the variants of familial hyperparathyroidism. Laboratory Examination Laboratory testing should be guided by the results of a careful history and a detailed physical examination and should be geared toward assessing the extent of the alteration in calcium homeostasis and toward establishing the underlying diagnosis and determining its severity. Useful laboratory screening
