Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


detailed physical examination and should be geared toward assessing the extent of the alteration in calcium homeostasis and toward establishing the underlying diagnosis and determining its severity. Useful laboratory screening may include a complete blood count (CBC), serum total and ionized calcium, PTH, 25(OH)D, 1,25(OH) 2 D, phosphorus, serum creatinine and calculation of estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR), urinalysis and 24-hour urine collection for calcium and creatinine. To establish the diagnosis of PHPT the most common cause of hypercalcemia in the ambulatory setting, documentation of at least two elevated corrected (or ionized) serum calcium levels with concomitant elevated, or at least normal, serum PTH levels, at least 2 weeks apart, is required (levels of PTH within the normal range are “inappropriate” and consistent with PHPT, because serum PTH should be suppressed in the setting of hypercalcemia,) ( Figure1 ). A serum PTH level is the most useful initial test to distinguish between PTH-dependent and PTH-independent hypercalcemia. Two site assays for PTH are currently the method of choice ( 265 ), and the sensitivity of second-generation intact and third-generation “whole” PTH 2-site immunometric assays is similar and is approximately 90%. PTH levels are elevated in approximately 80% of patients, although temporal trends suggest lower levels compared with past decades. Normocalcemic PHPT may be diagnosed if normal corrected total calcium and normal ionized calcium concentrations occur in association with an elevated intact serum PTH on at least two occasions over 3–6 months, and all causes of secondary hyperparathyroidism have been excluded. FHH, should also be considered in the presence of hypercalcemia and normal or elevated PTH however FHH patients generally exhibit a urinary calcium /creatinine clearance ratio <0.01 if testing serum and urine calcium in three relatives discloses hypercalcemia and relative hypocalciuria, then this diagnosis is likely and parathyroid surgery is to be avoided. Lithium and thiazide diuretics may also be associated with hypercalcemia and elevated PTH, as may ectopic PTH secretion by tumors, To evaluate renal involvement, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) or preferably, creatinine clearance, 24-hour urinary calcium and imaging for nephrolithiasis/nephrocalcinosis should be obtained. To evaluate skeletal involvement, bone mineral density (BMD) should be determined by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans of the lumbar spine, hip, and distal 1/3 radius, and imaging should be performed for vertebral fractures (vertebral fracture assessment [VFA] or vertebral X-rays); trabecular bone score (TBS) could be included if available. These studies should provide a
