Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


radius, and imaging should be performed for vertebral fractures (vertebral fracture assessment [VFA] or vertebral X-rays); trabecular bone score (TBS) could be included if available. These studies should provide a baseline of disease extent before parathyroidectomy. Pre-operative localization of a parathyroid adenoma, generally by nuclear imaging (MIBI scans) or ultrasound has been helpful ( 266 ). Ultimately an experienced surgeon is the best guarantee for a successful neck exploration. The presence of a family history of hypercalcemia or of kidney stones should raise suspicion of MEN1 or MEN2a or MEN4. If, in addition to HPT in the proband, one or more first-degree relatives are found have at least one of the three tumors characterizing MEN1 (parathyroid, pituitary, pancreas) or MEN2a (parathyroid, medullary thyroid carcinoma, pheochromocytoma) then it is highly likely that the disease is familial. Documentation of familial HPT should be transmitted to the surgeon so that multigland disease can be dealt with. The presence of ossifying fibromas of the mandible and maxilla, and renal lesions such as cysts and hamartomas in addition to HPT would suggest HPT-jaw tumor syndrome. If hypercalcemia is associated with very low or suppressed serum PTH levels, then malignancy would be an important consideration, either in association with elevated serum PTHrP or in its absence, in which case it is generally as a result of the production of other cytokines. Hypercalcemia is however frequently a late manifestation of malignancy and the presentation of hypercalcemia is often acute and severe. When malignancy-associated hypercalcemia is suspected then an appropriate malignancy screen should be done including skeletal imaging to identify skeletal metastases. As well appropriate biochemical assessment such as a complete blood count, serum creatinine, and serum and urine protein electrophoresis to exclude multiple myeloma would be appropriate. Detection of elevated serum 1,25(OH) 2 D levels may point toward the need for a search for lymphoma or for infectious or non-infectious granulomatous disease. Other testing (e.g., a TSH level) could be done for specific clinical disorders based on the findings on the history and physical examination. Although increased PTHrP may be associated with pheochromocytoma, serum PTH levels are suppressed in hypercalcemia in association with thyrotoxicosis, pheochromocytoma, VIPoma, and hypoadrenalism. Although these disorders may be suspected from clinical examination, detailed biochemical evaluation is required for confirmation. An approach to laboratory assessment of the hypercalcemic patient is shown in Figure 8 . Figure 8. Laboratory approach to the diagnosis of
