Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


detailed biochemical evaluation is required for confirmation. An approach to laboratory assessment of the hypercalcemic patient is shown in Figure 8 . Figure 8. Laboratory approach to the diagnosis of hypercalcemia. Abbreviations used are: BMD= bone mineral density, eGFR=estimated glomerular filtration rate,Li=lithium therapy MAH=malignancy-associated hypercalcemia, PHPT=primary hyperparathyroidism, SPEP=serum protein electrophoresis, UPEP=urine protein electrophoresis. MANAGEMENT OF HYPERCALCEMIA If the patient is asymptomatic and the patient's serum calcium concentration is less than 12 mg/dL (3 mM) then treatment of the hypercalcemia should be aimed solely at treatment of the underlying disorder. Nevertheless, calcium intake of greater than 1000 mg/d, and immobilization should be avoided. If feasible, thiazide diuretics should be discontinued. If the patient has symptoms and signs of acute hypercalcemia as described above and serum calcium is greater than 12 mg/dL (3mM) then a series of urgent measures should be instituted ( Table 3 ). These measures are almost always required with a serum calcium above 14 mg/dL (3.5 mM) Table 3. Management of Acute Hypercalcemia View in own window 1. Hydration 2. Inhibition of Bone Resorption 3. Calciuresis 4. Reduction of GI calcium absorption 5. Calcimimetics 6. Dialysis 7. Mobilization Hydration to Restore Euvolemia Hydration with normal saline is necessary in every patient with acute, severe hypercalcemia to correct the ECF deficit due to nausea, vomiting, and polyuria ( 267 ). This may require a bolus infusion of 0.9% sodium chloride followed by an infusion of 3 to 4 L over 24 to 48 hours (e.g., an initial rate of 200-300 mL/h subsequently adjusted to maintain a urine output at 100-150 mL/h). Hydration can enhance urinary calcium excretion by increasing the glomerular filtration of calcium and decreasing tubular reabsorption of sodium and calcium. This form of therapy, although always required, should however be used cautiously in patients with compromised cardiovascular or renal function. Hydration alone might be sufficient when the cause is known and readily reversible (e.g., milk-alkali syndrome), but is typically insufficient with other etiologies such as MAH. Inhibition of Bone Resorption Accelerated bone resorption is an important factor in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in the majority of patients with acute, severe hypercalcemia and treatment with denosumab (Dmab) or an intravenous (IV) bisphosphonate (BP) is the treatment of choice for inhibition of bone resorption ( 268 ). Consequently, preferably after the patient is rehydrated, denosumab 120 mg can be given subcutaneously and, if needed, repeated 1, 2 and 4
