Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


for inhibition of bone resorption ( 268 ). Consequently, preferably after the patient is rehydrated, denosumab 120 mg can be given subcutaneously and, if needed, repeated 1, 2 and 4 weeks later and monthly thereafter, to maintain the desired calcium level. In contrast to bisphosphonates, denosumab is not cleared by the kidney, and therefore can be used in patients with severe or chronic kidney disease. Denosumab may, rarely, cause rash or infection, Transient hypocalcemia, may occur particularly in patients with vitamin D deficiency; consequently, low serum 25(OH)D, if present, should be corrected before administering denosumab. Alternatively, nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates may be administered intravenously (IV). Thus, zoledronic acid, 4 mg, can be given Ivin 5 ml of 0.9% saline or 5% dextrose in water over 15 min ( 269 ) and can be repeated in 7 days, if necessary and every 3 to 4 weeks thereafter; alternatively pamidronate, 60-90 mg, may be administered IV in 500 ml of 0.9% saline or 5% dextrose in water over 2-4 hours ( 270 ). Bisphosphonates may cause transient fevers, flu-like symptoms, or myalgias for a day or two and transient hypocalcemia and/or hypophosphatemia may result. After a single dose both agents may only reduce serum calcium to normal levels after 4 days but the duration of the effect may last from days to 8 weeks. Salmon calcitonin is a peptide hormone which is a safe therapeutic agent when acutely administered. Calcitonin can inhibit osteoclastic resorption and can also increase calcium excretion ( 271 ). It has a more rapid onset of action than either denosumab or the intravenous bisphosphonates, causing serum calcium to fall generally by 1-2 mg/dL (0.25 to 0.50 mM) within 2 to 6 hours of administration. Consequently, it may be used in concert with a bisphosphonate or denosumab to more rapidly reduce the hypercalcemia (within 2-6 hours) ( 272 ). It is usually given intramuscularly or subcutaneously at a dose of 4 to 8 IU/kg, and can be repeated every 6 to 12 hours for 48 to 72 hours. Unfortunately, this agent is not as potent as the most potent bisphosphonates or denosumab and tachyphylaxis may occur after 48-72 hours. Calciuresis If PTHrP or PTH is suspected to be a pathogenetic mediator of the presenting hypercalcemia then renal calcium retention may contribute to the maintenance of the hypercalcemia and inhibition of bone resorption alone may be insufficient to normalize serum calcium (
