Approach to Hypercalcemia
KEYWORDS: calcium, hypercalcemia, bone, pubmed, pthrp, parathyroid, pth, hyperparathyroidism, patients, serum, renal, vitamin, cells, increased, hormone


of the presenting hypercalcemia then renal calcium retention may contribute to the maintenance of the hypercalcemia and inhibition of bone resorption alone may be insufficient to normalize serum calcium ( 273 ). In this case, a loop diuretic i.e., furosemide may be added, but, importantly, only after rehydration. Loop diuretics inhibit both sodium and calcium reabsorption at the CTAL of the kidney. Furosemide, 20 to 40 mg may be administered IV both to control clinical manifestations of volume excess and to promote calciuria, but the possibility of low potassium, or worsening kidney function should be monitored. Glucocorticoids Glucocorticoids decrease gastrointestinal absorption of calcium and can also increase urine calcium excretion. Importantly, glucocorticoids can also inhibit ,25(OH) 2 D synthesis by mononuclear cells in patients with granulomatous diseases ( 237 ) and by proliferative cells in hematologic malignancies such as lymphoma or myeloma ( 274 ). Glucocorticoids (e.g., hydrocortisone 200 to 400 mg intravenously over 24 hours for 3 to 5 days) may therefore be an initial adjunctive therapy for treatment of severe hypercalcemia in those with known or highly suspected vitamin D–mediated hypercalcemia, but may also be used as an additional therapy in refractory life-threatening hypercalcemia of any cause. Once the acute hypercalcemia is controlled and the cause identified, treatment can be tailored to the pathophysiological mechanism, e.g., by the use of oral prednisone 20 mg/d to 40 mg/d or higher, if necessary, Chronic glucocorticoid use may however result in hyperglycemia, altered mental status, hypertension. myopathy, infection, bone loss and/or avascular necrosis of bone. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole, is an imidazole antifungal agent, that inhibits 1,25(OH) 2 D production in sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, silicone-related granulomatous disease, and in individuals with inactivating CYP24A1 variants ( 79 - 82 ). Ketoconazole may be used instead of glucocorticoids or used in combination with lower doses of glucocorticoids in hypercalcemia associated with these disorders. Patients with disorders causing increased calcium absorption should also decrease dietary calcium and vitamin D intake, maintain hydration and avoid exposure to sun, in view of the fact that seasonal increases in serum calcium have been described in patients with sarcoid and CYP24A1 variants. CaSR Agonism (Calcimimetics) The calcimimetic, cinacalcet, is a CaSR agonist which increases CaSR sensitivity to ECF calcium and reduces PTH secretion. It may be used in doses starting at 30 mg twice daily orally to as high as 90 mg 4 times daily for the treatment of severe, chronic
