Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost, immunization, countries, costs, vaccines, vaccine, deaths, cid, percent, disease, averted, coverage, burden, estimates, cid cid


per death averted will be lower than what has been esti- Clements 1989; Moss, Clements, and Halsey 2003; Perry and mated for this chapter,and the effect ofincreasing coverage will Halsey 2004). be overestimated because fewer deaths could be prevented. For a disease such as measles in which infection is almost Both ofthe approaches described have strengths and limita- universal in the absence ofimmunity,small changes in the CFR tions.We adopt the natural history approach for this analysis result in large changes in estimates oftotal mortality.Increased because the chapter includes deaths at all ages and the model complication and mortality rates occur in children who are can adapt to recent changes in CFRs and coverage rates. Vaccine-Preventable Diseases | 395 However,the natural history method is sensitive to the accu- average CFRs ranging from 1 percent among infants in devel- racy ofparameter inputs such as CFRs and may underestimate oped countries to 12 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa. the effect of herd immunity. Further modeling efforts would Hepatitis B needtoincorporatesensitivitytestingaroundarangeofparam- eter estimates. In many developed countries,most transmission ofhepatitis B In the absence ofvaccination,the measles virus would infect occurs during or after adolescence,coinciding with the onset of almost 100 percent of the population, including most of the sexual activity and ofdrug abuse involving unsafe reuse ofnee- 688 million children under five in the developing world.Using dles and syringes (McQuillan and others 1999). In many the methods described here, approximately 125 million African countries,transmission occurs primarily in early child- cases and 1.8 million to 2.0 million deaths per year would be hood through mucosal contact with infectious body fluids and expected in the absence ofvaccination. unsafe injection practices (Margolis,Alter, and Hadler 1997). Some Asian countries have a high rate ofchronic carrier states, Haemophilus influenzaeType b (Hib) and the primary mode of transmission is mothers to infants Hib is transmitted through the respiratory tract and causes (Beasley 1988;Mast and others 2004).The rate ofsymptomatic meningitis, pneumonia, septic arthritis, skin infections, disease is only about 1 percent in infancy and 10 percent in epiglottitis, osteomyelitis, and sepsis. Deaths caused by Hib early childhood,but it increases to 30 to 40 percent in adults. occur primarily from meningitis and pneumonia.In developed Serosurveys for carrier states of hepatitis B are available for countries,approximately half of diagnosed invasive infections almost all nations . are meningitis (Wenger and Ward 2004).In developing coun- Models ofhepatitis B disease burden are based on estimated tries,a larger proportion
