Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost, immunization, countries, costs, vaccines, vaccine, deaths, cid, percent, disease, averted, coverage, burden, estimates, cid cid


countries,approximately half of diagnosed invasive infections almost all nations . are meningitis (Wenger and Ward 2004).In developing coun- Models ofhepatitis B disease burden are based on estimated tries,a larger proportion ofidentified cases is meningitis result- ratios between infected and carriage states at various ages or ing from underdiagnosis of other clinical syndromes (Martin estimates of the percentage of carriers that progress to and others 2004; Peltola 2000). Intervention studies have hepatoma,fulminant hepatitis,or cirrhosis at later stages oflife demonstrated significant reductions in pneumonia in vacci- (Miller and McCann 2000).The model we used for estimating nated compared with unvaccinated children (Levine and oth- hepatitis B mortality estimates the age- and sex-specific pro- ers 1998; Mulholland and others 1997). Although infections gression of hepatitis B surface antigen infection to disease occur throughout the world,the incidence ofHib disease may incorporating competing mortality,particularly because indi- be lower in some Asian countries than in Africa and the viduals infected with HIV are more likely to perish from HIV Americas (Gessner and others 2005). before the full mortality impact from hepatitis B infection We derived estimates ofHib disease burden from incidence (Gayand others 2001;Griffiths,Hutton,and Pascoal 2005). rates and CFRs for meningitis and pneumonia. We derived Whereas most vaccine-preventable diseases that result in country-specific estimates of the incidence of Hib meningitis deathoccuratanearlyageshortlyaftertheageofvaccination, from the literature on incidence in the prevaccine era (Bennett deaths from hepatitis B occur many years into the future. and others 2002).For countries without meningitis incidence Countries that introduce hepatitis B vaccines today will not data,we used the average incidence in countries with similar reap most of the benefits for many years. In the absence of epidemiological profiles. Regional averages ranged from 219 vaccination, we estimated approximately 1.4 million future cases per 100,000 to 3 per 100,000 population in children deaths attributable to hepatitis B for the 2001 birth cohort under one,and 1 to 15 per 100,000 population in children age after accounting for competing mortality. Global vaccination one to four.The CFR for meningitis is nearly 100 percent in the of 35 percent would prevent more than 500,000 of those absence ofintensive antibiotic therapy,but it can be reduced to future deaths. Discounting the value of future hepatitis B 5 to 8 percent when appropriate therapy is available (Swartz deaths to their equivalent value in the present to make the 2004).We derived CFRs in a manner similar to that used for burden of disease prevented equivalent
