Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost, immunization, countries, costs, vaccines, vaccine, deaths, cid, percent, disease, averted, coverage, burden, estimates, cid cid


meet the financing requirements 2001) reviews ofstudies ofthe cost-effectiveness ofintroducing of immunization programs, particularly as new vaccines are hepatitis B vaccine indicate that results vary depending on introduced and programs are scaled up.GAVI is working with assumptions of endemicity and the methodology used,with a countries to prepare for the transition from grant funding and cost per death averted ranging from US$3,500 to US$271,800. to secure the overall financial sustainability of national pro- Rubellavaccinationhadalowadditionalcostperpersonvac- grams. Approximately 55 countries have prepared national cinated,atslightlymorethanUS$1.GoldenandShapiro(1984) financial sustainability plans for immunization. These plans foundthatvaccinatingallprepubertalchildrenwithrubellavac- help countries evaluate the current and future costs and financ- cinehadthehighestbenefit-costratio(rangingfromUS$1.70to ing ofnational immunization programs and identify strategies US$1.96). Most benefits were future cost savings from long- to address future funding gaps (GAVI 2004; terminstitutionalcare.Whenrubellawasdeliveredincombina- int/immunization_financing/en). tion with measles and mumps, the benefit-cost ratios varied According to a recent analysis of financial sustainability fromUS$4.70toUS$38.80(Hinmanandothers2002). plans,specific costs for immunization programs represent an The additional cost per person vaccinated with one dose average of 2 percent of total health spending and 6 percent of of Japanese encephalitis vaccine was between US$4.37 and government health spending and are equivalent to less than US$4.56.AstudyinThailandusingtwodosesshowedacostper 0.2 percent of gross domestic product on average. However, child ranging from US$2.31 to US$4.20, depending on the this profile changes after new and more expensive vaccines are mode of delivery (Siraprapasiri, Sawaddiwudhipong, and introduced. In some countries, program-specific costs for Rojanasuphot1997).Dingandothers(2003)estimateacostper immunization can reach as high as 20 percent of government caseavertedofUS$258andacostperDALYavertedofUS$16.80 health spending with introduction of combination vaccines forafive-doseinactivatedJapaneseencephalitisvaccine. .This share is related to the current unit price of Our analysis suggests an additional discounted cost per per- the vaccine,which is expected to decline. son vaccinated for injectable polio vaccine ofbetween US$6.60 Governments and their development partners are chal- and US$7.32,depending on coverage levels and mix ofdelivery lenged to find ways to finance and sustain immunization strategy.The additional discounted unit cost of the combina- programs. In countries that are implementing reforms to tion DTP-IPV vaccine was higher, ranging from US$13.88 to achieve greater transparency and fiscal discipline through sec- US$15.28.These results are also sensitive to the current prices torwide approaches and medium-term expenditure frame- of the vaccine, which will probably decline in coming years. works,the additional financing requirements are compounded Brenzel (1995) finds that in India the cost per case prevented by the need to operate within a fixed budget for the health sec- for the combination DTP-polio vaccine
