Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost, immunization, countries, costs, vaccines, vaccine, deaths, cid, percent, disease, averted, coverage, burden, estimates, cid cid


schedule could be adopted.Also,other vac- tionships across countries and accounting for uncertainty in cines to be introduced into immunization programs would estimates ofcosts and effects are possible. need to be revaluated in this schedule. Two doses of IPV Second, more attention needs to be given to measuring administered beginning at two months ofage induce protective effect.For example,even though the coverage ofsingle antigens levels ofantibodies between 95 and 100 percent for each ofthe required to reach particular levels ofFICs should be accounted three polio types (Halsey and others 1997; Plotkin and Vidor for,economic evaluations need to move beyond such indica- 2004). tors of output to measuring effect on the quantity and qual- Some countries with a low incidence of tuberculosis (such ity of life. In evaluating different schedules, methodological as those of Eastern Europe) are considering the discontinua- research needs to focus on how to incorporate the combined Vaccine-Preventable Diseases | 407 effects ofmultiple vaccinations in this respect.Remarkably few Financing and sustaining immunization programs are chal- studies have considered the effect on nonhealth benefits,such lenges that governments in developing countries and their as economic growth and welfare. The larger the package of development partners will face. The financial implications of vaccinations considered, the more important this question reaching higher coverage levels and the simultaneous desire to becomes. introduce new vaccines will require policy makers to consider both the relative cost-effectiveness of interventions and the long-term budgetary implications. CONCLUSIONS Although global and regional estimates ofcost-effectiveness of interventions are useful guides,further analytical work will This chapter confirms that vaccination ofchildren and women be needed to evaluate the relative benefits (deaths and cases with the traditional EPI vaccines is a highly cost-effective pub- averted and DALYs) and costs (delivery and treatment) ofvac- by region,delivery strategy,and level ofscale.Overall,vaccina- particularly at the country level. tion has had a significant effect on reducing mortality and morbidity from childhood diseases and will be a priority ACKNOWLEDGMENTS intervention for achieving the child health Millennium Development Goals.Improving and sustaining measles control The authors thank Tina Proveaux for editorial and technical are among the most cost-effective interventions in high- assistance and Howard Barnum, Mariam Claeson, Felicity mortality regions. Cutts, Tony Measham, and Philip Musgrove for reviewing Establishing and maintaining high immunization coverage drafts of the manuscript. Santiago Cornejo and Ravi rates in many ofthe poorest developing countries have proven Cheerukupalli provided valuable inputs. challenging for those with high population growth rates,
