Chapter
KEYWORDS: cost, immunization, countries, costs, vaccines, vaccine, deaths, cid, percent, disease, averted, coverage, burden, estimates, cid cid


coverage drafts of the manuscript. Santiago Cornejo and Ravi rates in many ofthe poorest developing countries have proven Cheerukupalli provided valuable inputs. challenging for those with high population growth rates, limited infrastructure and resources, and fluctuating demand for services. According to historical coverage rate trends, NOTES Europe and Central Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, and the Middle East and North Africa are expected to achieve 1.For our analysis,the preimmunization era neonatal tetanus mortal- ity rate per 1,000 live births is used:developed countries,0.1;East Asia and 90 percent coverage of FIC by 2011, with East Asia and the the Pacific, 4.7; Europe and Central Asia, 0.4; Latin America and the Pacific,South Asia,and Sub-Saharan Africa lagging behind. Caribbean,4.4;Middle East and North Africa,4.7;South Asia,15.3;and Increasing and sustaining higher immunization coverage Sub-Saharan Africa,10.2. 2.Because disease classification does not have a one-to-one correspon- rateswillrequirefurthereffortssothatdiseasecontrolcanbe dence with those prevented by vaccine, according to table 20.3 is based on maintained,particularlywhenaperceptionexistsatthecom- estimates ofthe proportion ofthese illnesses that may be preventable by munitylevelthatvaccine-preventablediseasesarenolongera specific vaccines.For example,some meningitis and acute lower respira- caused by hepatitisB. diseaseburdenreductionswillbesmaller,whichwillaffectrel- 3.A fully immunized childis a standard term that refers to a child who ativecost-effectiveness.Targetedapproachesincountriesorat has received one dose ofBCG vaccine,three doses each oforal polio vac- subnational levels could potentially yield high returns, espe- cine and DTP vaccines,and one dose ofmeasles vaccine.The number of FICs does not include children who have been partially immunized,so this cially in those areas with poor control of vaccine-preventable measure underestimates the total effect on the disease burden.However, diseases. the number of FICs is representative of the effectiveness of the delivery Our analysis shows that the cost per FIC will increase as system in providing access to immunization services to children. The authors are aware that fully vaccinating a child does not correspond to full countries scale up immunization coverage and introduce new immunity. vaccines. Adding more antigens to traditional EPIs has been 4.Themeanpopulation-weightedcostperFICforthefinancialsustain- successfully accomplished in many countries,especially for Hib abilityplansforimmunizationwasUS$21.06.TheplansuseDTP3coverage and hepatitis B vaccines.Although many of the new vaccines asaproxyforFICsratherthancoveragemeasuredthroughpopulation- basedsurveys( under consideration are more expensive than those for the 5.Assumptions about the relative distribution ofFICs by strategy and original six targeted EPI diseases, they may still be relatively region were based loosely on such factors as the proportion ofthe popu- cost-effective compared with other interventions and with lation with access to health services for fixed facilities and the likelihood of active mobile strategies. treatment costs. Our analysis
