NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atomoxetine, liver, injury, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, liver injury, adhd, drug, weeks, drugs, children, events, alt, adverse


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Atomoxetine. [Updated 2021 Aug 25]. Bookshelf URL: Atomoxetine Updated: August 25, 2021. OVERVIEW Introduction Atomoxetine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor used primarily for therapy of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Atomoxetine has been linked to a low rate of serum aminotransferase elevations and to rare cases of acute, clinically apparent liver injury. Background Atomoxetine (a" toe mox' e teen) is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor that blocks the presynaptic norepinephrine transporter leading to an increase in levels of this potent neurotransmitter, predominantly in the central nervous system. Therapy with atomoxetine has been shown to lead to improvements in levels of psychological functioning and performance in children and adults with suspected attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Atomoxetine was approved for use in adults, adolescents and children above the age of 6 years with ADHD in the United States in 2002. Atomoxetine is available in capsules of 10, 18, 25, 40, 60, 80 and 100 mg in generic forms and under the brand name Strattera. The recommended initial dosage in adults is 40 mg once daily, with subsequent increases to a maintenance dose which averages 60 to 100 mg daily. The dosage in children is based upon body weight. Common side effects include headache, insomnia, irritability, dry mouth, erectile dysfunction, urinary hesitancy, gastrointestinal upset, nausea, constipation and rash. Uncommon but potential severe adverse events include suicidal ideation and behavior, cardiovascular symptoms and events, manic or aggressive behavior, priapism and hypersensitivity reactions. Hepatotoxicity Atomoxetine has been linked to serum aminotransferase elevations in a small proportion of patients (~0.5%). More importantly, there have been several reports of clinically apparent acute liver injury due to atomoxetine. The onset of injury was within 3 to 12 weeks of starting the medication. The typical pattern of serum enzyme elevations was hepatocellular with marked increases in serum aminotransferase levels (often >20 times upper instances of acute liver failure sometimes requiring emergency liver transplantation have been reported. Immunoallergic features were not found, but several patients with acute injury had antinuclear antibody and at least one patient had other features that resembled autoimmune hepatitis (with typical liver histology and high levels of immunoglobulins in serum). Likelihood score: C (probable cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which atomoxetine might cause liver injury is unknown. Atomoxetine is extensively metabolized
