NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atomoxetine, liver, injury, pubmed pmid, pmid, pubmed, liver injury, adhd, drug, weeks, drugs, children, events, alt, adverse


Likelihood score: C (probable cause of clinically apparent liver injury). 2 LiverTox Mechanism of Injury The mechanism by which atomoxetine might cause liver injury is unknown. Atomoxetine is extensively metabolized in the liver by the cytochrome P450 system, predominantly CYP 2D6 and production of a toxic intermediate or immunogenic byproduct are reasonable explanations. Atomoxetine is susceptible to drug-drug interactions with other substrates that use CYP 2D6 as well as inducers and inhibitors of the enzyme. Patients who have low or absent levels of CYP 2D6 (poor metabolizers) may have high plasma levels of atomoxetine and have more severe adverse events when receiving conventional doses, and those with high CYP 2D6 levels (ultrafast metabolizers) may have low plasma levels and fail to respond to treatment. Outcome and Management The liver injury due to atomoxetine varies from minor, transient and asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase levels to clinically apparent hepatitis that can be prolonged and even fatal. Chronic liver injury and vanishing bile duct syndrome due to atomoxetine have not been described. Atomoxetine should be discontinued if jaundice or symptoms of liver injury accompany serum enzyme elevations during treatment or if aminotransferase levels rise to above 5 times the upper limit of normal. There does not seem to be cross reactivity to hepatic injury between atomoxetine and other agents used for ADHD, but there may be cross reactivity with other norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Drug Class: Central Nervous System Stimulants; ADHD Agents CASE REPORT Case 1. Acute hepatitis in a child treated with atomoxetine.(1) A 12 year old girl with ADHD developed abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea and jaundice three weeks a fter restarting atomoxetine (40 mg daily). She had no previous history of liver disease or risk factors for viral hepatitis. She had received atomoxetine for approximately one year, but stopped taking it when she ran out of the medication, leading to an interruption of therapy for 6 weeks before restarting. She was not taking any other medications, over-the-counter drugs or herbals. On examination, she was jaundiced and had mild right upper quadrant tenderness without hepatomegaly or other manifestations of chronic liver disease. She had no fever or rash. Laboratory tests showed a total bilirubin of 9.1 mg/dL (direct 5.5 mg/dL) and marked elevations in serum aminotransferase levels (ALT 3264 U/L, AST 2999 U/L), with minimal increase in alkaline phosphatase (231 U/L) and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (108 U/L) (Table). Tests for hepatitis A,
