Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


Overview This guideline covers the early and longer-term (rehabilitation) management of acute coronary syndromes. These include ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and unstable angina. The guideline aims to improve survival and quality of life for people who have a heart attack or unstable angina. See the visual summaries on STEMI, unstable angina NSTEMI, and secondary prevention. This guideline does not cover management of spontaneous coronary artery dissection. The recommendations were developed before the COVID-19 pandemic. Acute coronary syndromes are a possible sign of acute myocardial injury in patients with COVID-19. See recommendations on acute myocardial injury in our guideline on managing COVID-19. Who is it for? • Healthcare professionals • Commissioners and providers • Adults with acute coronary syndromes, their families and carers Recommendations People have the right to be involved in discussions and make informed decisions about their care, as described in NICE's information on making decisions about your care. Making decisions using NICE guidelines explains how we use words to show the strength (or certainty) of our recommendations, and has information about prescribing medicines (including off-label use), professional guidelines, standards and laws (including on consent and mental capacity), and safeguarding. 1.1 STEMI – early management NICE has produced a visual summary of the recommendations on the early management of STEMI. Assessment 1.1.1 Immediately assess eligibility (irrespective of age, ethnicity or sex) for coronary reperfusion therapy (either primary percutaneous coronary intervention [PCI] or fibrinolysis) in people with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). [2013] 1.1.2 Do not use level of consciousness after cardiac arrest caused by suspected acute STEMI to determine whether a person is eligible for coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated). [2013] 1.1.3 Deliver coronary reperfusion therapy (either primary PCI or fibrinolysis) as quickly as possible for eligible people with acute STEMI. [2013] Initial drug therapy 1.1.4 Offer people with acute STEMI a single loading dose of 300 mg aspirin as soon as possible unless there is clear evidence that they are allergic to it. [2010] 1.1.5 Do not offer routine glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors or fibrinolytic drugs before arrival at the catheter laboratory to people with acute STEMI for whom primary PCI is planned. [2013] Coronary angiography with follow-on primary PCI 1.1.6 Offer coronary angiography, with follow-on primary PCI if indicated, as the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy for people with acute STEMI, if: • presentation is within 12 hours of
