Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


PCI 1.1.6 Offer coronary angiography, with follow-on primary PCI if indicated, as the preferred coronary reperfusion strategy for people with acute STEMI, if: • presentation is within 12 hours of onset of symptoms and • primary PCI can be delivered within 120 minutes of the time when fibrinolysis could have been given. [2013] 1.1.7 Offer coronary angiography, with follow-on primary PCI if indicated, to people with acute STEMI and cardiogenic shock who present within 12 hours of the onset of symptoms of STEMI. [2013] 1.1.8 Consider coronary angiography, with follow-on primary PCI if indicated, for people with acute STEMI presenting more than 12 hours after the onset of symptoms if there is evidence of continuing myocardial ischaemia. [2013] 1.1.9 Consider coronary angiography, with a view to coronary revascularisation if indicated, for people with acute STEMI who present more than 12 hours after the onset of symptoms and who have cardiogenic shock or go on to develop it. [2013] 1.1.10 Consider radial (in preference to femoral) arterial access for people undergoing coronary angiography (with follow-on primary PCI if indicated). [2013] Dual antiplatelet therapy for people with acute STEMI having primary PCI 1.1.11 For people with acute STEMI who are having primary PCI, offer: • prasugrel, as part of dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin, if they are not already taking an oral anticoagulant (for people aged 75 and over, think about whether the person's risk of bleeding with prasugrel outweighs its effectiveness, in which case offer ticagrelor or clopidogrel as alternatives) • clopidogrel, as part of dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin, if they are already taking an oral anticoagulant. [2020] Prasugrel and ticagrelor are recommended as options in NICE technology appraisal guidance for people with acute STEMI having primary PCI. For full details, see the guidance on: • prasugrel (TA317, 2014) • ticagrelor (TA236, 2011). For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on dual antiplatelet therapy for people with acute STEMI having primary PCI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: antiplatelet therapy. Antithrombin therapy during primary PCI 1.1.12 Offer unfractionated heparin with bailout glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor in combination with dual antiplatelet therapy to people with acute STEMI undergoing primary PCI with radial access. [2020] 1.1.13 Consider bivalirudin with bailout glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor in combination with dual antiplatelet
