Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


combination with dual antiplatelet therapy to people with acute STEMI undergoing primary PCI with radial access. [2020] 1.1.13 Consider bivalirudin with bailout glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor in combination with dual antiplatelet therapy for people with acute STEMI undergoing primary PCI when femoral access is needed. In November 2020, use of bivalirudin with prasugrel and aspirin was off label. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on antithrombin therapy during primary PCI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review D: antithrombin therapy in adults with STEMI intended for primary PCI. Thrombus extraction during primary PCI 1.1.14 Consider thrombus aspiration during primary PCI for people with acute STEMI. [2013] 1.1.15 Do not routinely use mechanical thrombus extraction during primary PCI for people with acute STEMI. [2013] Complete or culprit vessel only revascularisation with PCI in people with acute STEMI treated by primary PCI 1.1.16 Offer complete revascularisation with PCI for people with acute STEMI and multivessel coronary artery disease without cardiogenic shock. Consider doing this during the index hospital admission. [2020] 1.1.17 Consider culprit vessel only revascularisation with PCI rather than complete revascularisation during the index procedure for people with acute STEMI and multivessel coronary artery disease with cardiogenic shock. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on complete revascularisation with PCI or culprit vessel only PCI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review E: culprit versus complete revascularisation. Drug-eluting stents in primary PCI 1.1.18 If stenting is indicated, offer a drug-eluting stent to people with acute STEMI undergoing revascularisation by primary PCI. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on drug-eluting stents in primary PCI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: drug-eluting stents. Fibrinolysis 1.1.19 Offer fibrinolysis to people with acute STEMI presenting within 12 hours of onset of symptoms if primary PCI cannot be delivered within 120 minutes of the time when fibrinolysis could have been given. [2013] For recommendations in NICE technology appraisal guidance on choosing thrombolytic treatments for acute
