Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


1.2.2 Offer people with unstable angina or NSTEMI a single loading dose of 300-mg aspirin as soon as possible unless there is clear evidence that they are allergic to it. [2010] 1.2.3 Offer fondaparinux to people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who do not have a high bleeding risk, unless they are undergoing immediate coronary angiography. [2020] See the recommendation on unfractionated heparin in the section on coronary angiography with follow-on PCI for advice about people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who are undergoing immediate coronary angiography. For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on initial antithrombin therapy for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: antithrombin for unstable angina and NSTEMI. 1.2.4 Consider unfractionated heparin, with dose adjustment guided by monitoring of clotting function, as an alternative to fondaparinux for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI and significant renal impairment (creatinine above 265 micromoles per litre). [2010] 1.2.5 Carefully consider the choice and dose of antithrombin for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who have a high risk of bleeding associated with any of the following: • advancing age • known bleeding complications • renal impairment • low body weight. [2010] 1.2.6 Do not offer dual antiplatelet therapy to people with chest pain before a diagnosis of unstable angina or NSTEMI is made. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on dual antiplatelet therapy for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: antiplatelet therapy. Risk assessment 1.2.7 As soon as the diagnosis of unstable angina or NSTEMI is made, and aspirin and antithrombin therapy have been offered, formally assess individual risk of future adverse cardiovascular events using an established risk scoring system that predicts 6-month mortality (for example, Global Registry of Acute Cardiac Events [GRACE]). [2010] 1.2.8 Include in the formal risk assessment: • a full clinical history (including age, previous myocardial infarction [MI] and previous PCI or coronary artery bypass grafting [CABG]) • a physical examination (including measurement of blood pressure and heart rate) • a resting 12-lead ECG, looking particularly for dynamic or unstable patterns that
