Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI Conservative management with Benefits/risks/other Coronary angiography and possible percutaneous later coronary angiography if factors coronary intervention (PCI) within 72 hours problems continue or develop Avoid the immediate risks of invasive treatment, including: Reduced deaths from all causes at 6 to • death within 12 months and at 2 years. Reduced deaths 4 months related to from heart problems at 1 and 2 years. the procedure from Reduced incidence of myocardial infarction causes other than MI (MI) at 30 days, 6 to 12 months and • procedure-related MI 2 years. Reduced incidence of stroke at 1 year, • major bleeding in Benefits particularly in people at high risk of future hospital and up to (advantages) adverse events. 2 years after the Reduced readmission to hospital and procedure. difficult-to-treat angina in the medium These are particularly term, particularly in people at high risk of relevant for people at future adverse events. low risk of future Psychological benefits – people are not adverse events. anxious about delaying angiography. Psychological benefits – people are not anxious about having an invasive procedure. Conservative management with Benefits/risks/other Coronary angiography and possible percutaneous later coronary angiography if factors coronary intervention (PCI) within 72 hours problems continue or develop Increased risk of MI after Increased risk of death during the first 6 months. 4 months, particularly for people at low risk Increased risk of stroke of future adverse events. at 1 year, particularly in Risks Risk of procedure-related MI. the people at high risk of (disadvantages) Increased risk of major bleeding during the future adverse events. index admission, at 30 days and 2 years. Psychological factors – Emergency treatment leaves little time for people may be anxious shared decision making. about delaying angiography. Recent advances in PCI might increase early benefit, particularly reducing bleeding. Other factors Coronary angiography within 72 hours – ensures speedy intervention while allowing time for the correct diagnosis, identifying other conditions and treating symptoms. For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on early invasive versus conservative management for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: early invasive versus conservative management for unstable angina and NSTEMI. 1.2.16 Offer systemic unfractionated heparin in the cardiac catheter laboratory to people
