Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: early invasive versus conservative management for unstable angina and NSTEMI. 1.2.16 Offer systemic unfractionated heparin in the cardiac catheter laboratory to people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who are undergoing PCI whether or not they have already received fondaparinux. In November 2020, this was an off-label use of unfractionated heparin. See NICE's information on prescribing medicines. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on antithrombin therapy for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review C: antithrombin for unstable angina and NSTEMI. 1.2.17 For people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who are having coronary angiography, offer: • prasugrel or ticagrelor, as part of dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin, if they have no separate indication for ongoing oral anticoagulation (if using prasugrel, only give it once coronary anatomy has been defined and PCI is intended; for people aged 75 and over, think about whether the person's risk of bleeding with prasugrel outweighs its effectiveness) • clopidogrel, as part of dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin, if they have a separate indication for ongoing oral anticoagulation. [2020] Prasugrel and ticagrelor are recommended as options in NICE technology appraisal guidance for some people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who are having coronary angiography. For full details, see the guidance on: • prasugrel (TA317, 2014) • ticagrelor (TA236, 2011). For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on dual antiplatelet therapy for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: antiplatelet therapy. 1.2.18 If stenting is indicated, offer a drug-eluting stent to people with unstable angina or NSTEMI undergoing revascularisation by PCI. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on drug-eluting stents. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review F: drug-eluting stents. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors for complex PCI 1.2.19 Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors as an adjunct to PCI are recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who are
