Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


complex PCI 1.2.19 Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors as an adjunct to PCI are recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who are having complex procedures. For full details, see the guidance on glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (TA47, 2010). Management when PCI is not indicated 1.2.20 Consider conservative management without early coronary angiography for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI who have a low risk of adverse cardiovascular events (predicted 6-month mortality 3.0% or less). [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendation and how it might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on early invasive versus conservative management for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review B: early invasive versus conservative management for unstable angina and NSTEMI. 1.2.21 Offer ticagrelor, as part of dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin, to people with unstable angina or NSTEMI when PCI is not indicated, unless they have a high bleeding risk. [2020] Ticagrelor is recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for treating unstable angina or NSTEMI when PCI is not indicated. For full details, see the guidance on ticagrelor (TA236, 2011). 1.2.22 Consider clopidogrel, as part of dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin, or aspirin alone, for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI when PCI is not indicated, if they have a high bleeding risk. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on antiplatelet therapy for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review A: antiplatelet therapy. Advice on management strategies 1.2.23 Offer people with unstable angina or NSTEMI clear information about the risks and benefits of the treatments offered so that they can make informed choices about management strategies. Information should be appropriate to the person's underlying risk of a future adverse cardiovascular event and any comorbidities. [2010] 1.2.24 When advising people with unstable angina or NSTEMI about the choice of revascularisation strategy (PCI or CABG), take account of coronary angiographic findings, comorbidities, and the benefits and risks of each intervention. [2010] 1.2.25 When the role of revascularisation or the revascularisation strategy is unclear, resolve this by discussion involving an interventional cardiologist, cardiac surgeon and other
