Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


and risks of each intervention. [2010] 1.2.25 When the role of revascularisation or the revascularisation strategy is unclear, resolve this by discussion involving an interventional cardiologist, cardiac surgeon and other healthcare professionals relevant to the needs of the person. Discuss the choice of revascularisation strategy with the person. [2010] Tests before discharge 1.2.26 To detect and quantify inducible ischaemia, consider ischaemia testing before discharge for people whose condition has been managed conservatively and who have not had coronary angiography. [2010] 1.2.27 Assess left ventricular function in all people who have had an NSTEMI. [2013] 1.2.28 Consider assessing left ventricular function in all people with unstable angina. [2010] 1.2.29 Record measures of left ventricular function in the person's care record and in correspondence with the primary healthcare team and the person. [2010] 1.3 Hyperglycaemia in acute coronary syndromes Managing hyperglycaemia in inpatients within 48 hours of acute coronary syndrome 1.3.1 Manage hyperglycaemia in people admitted to hospital for an acute coronary syndrome by keeping blood glucose levels below 11.0 mmol/litre while avoiding hypoglycaemia. In the first instance, consider a dose-adjusted insulin infusion with regular monitoring of blood glucose levels. [2011] 1.3.2 Do not routinely offer intensive insulin therapy (an intravenous infusion of insulin and glucose with or without potassium) to manage hyperglycaemia (blood glucose above 11.0 mmol/litre) in people admitted to hospital for an acute coronary syndrome unless clinically indicated. [2011] Identifying people with hyperglycaemia after acute coronary syndrome who are at high risk of developing diabetes 1.3.3 Offer all people with hyperglycaemia after acute coronary syndrome and without known diabetes tests for: • HbA1c levels before discharge • fasting blood glucose levels no earlier than 4 days after the onset of acute coronary syndrome. These tests should not delay discharge. [2011] 1.3.4 Do not routinely offer oral glucose tolerance tests to people with hyperglycaemia after acute coronary syndrome and without known diabetes if HbA1c and fasting blood glucose levels are within the normal range. [2011] Advice and ongoing monitoring for people with hyperglycaemia after acute coronary syndrome and without known diabetes 1.3.5 Offer people with hyperglycaemia after acute coronary syndrome and without known diabetes lifestyle advice on the following: • healthy eating • physical exercise • weight management • smoking cessation • alcohol consumption. See the section on lifestyle changes after an MI for more information. [2011] 1.3.6 Advise people without known diabetes that if they have had hyperglycaemia after
