Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


cessation • alcohol consumption. See the section on lifestyle changes after an MI for more information. [2011] 1.3.6 Advise people without known diabetes that if they have had hyperglycaemia after an acute coronary syndrome, they: • are at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes • should consult their GP if they experience the following symptoms: － frequent urination － excessive thirst － weight loss － fatigue • should be offered tests for diabetes at least annually. [2011] 1.3.7 Inform GPs that they should offer at least annual monitoring of HbA1c or fasting blood glucose levels to people without known diabetes who have had hyperglycaemia after an acute coronary syndrome. [2011] 1.4 Drug therapy for secondary prevention NICE has produced a visual summary of the recommendations on cardiac rehabilitation and secondary prevention. 1.4.1 For secondary prevention, offer people who have had MI treatment with the following drugs: • angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor • dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin plus a second antiplatelet) unless they have a separate indication for anticoagulation (see the section on antiplatelet therapy for people with an ongoing separate indication for anticoagulation) • beta-blocker • statin. [2007, amended 2020] 1.4.2 Ensure that a clear management plan is available to the person who has had an MI and is also sent to the GP, including: • details and timing of any further drug titration • monitoring of blood pressure • monitoring of renal function. [2013] 1.4.3 Offer all people who have had an MI an assessment of bleeding risk at their follow-up appointment. [2013] 1.4.4 Rivaroxaban, with aspirin and clopidogrel, or aspirin alone, is recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for preventing atherothrombotic events in people who have had an acute coronary syndrome with elevated cardiac biomarkers, taking bleeding risk into account. For full details, see the guidance on rivaroxaban (TA335, 2015). 1.4.5 Rivaroxaban plus aspirin is recommended as an option in NICE technology appraisal guidance for preventing atherothrombotic events in some people with coronary artery disease who are at high risk of ischaemic events, taking bleeding risk into account. For full details, see the guidance on rivaroxaban (TA607, 2019). ACE inhibitors 1.4.6 Offer people who present acutely with an MI, an ACE inhibitor as soon as they are haemodynamically stable. Continue the ACE inhibitor indefinitely. [2013] 1.4.7 Titrate the ACE inhibitor dose upwards at short intervals (for example, every 12 to 24 hours) before the
