Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


up to 12 months and an oral anticoagulant licensed for the indication, which best matches the person's: • bleeding risk • thromboembolic risk • cardiovascular risk • wishes. [2020] 1.4.24 For people already on anticoagulation, or those with a new indication, who have not had PCI (medical management, CABG), continue anticoagulation and, unless there is a high risk of bleeding, consider continuing aspirin (or clopidogrel for people with contraindication for aspirin) for up to 12 months. [2020] 1.4.25 Do not routinely offer prasugrel or ticagrelor in combination with an anticoagulant that is needed for an ongoing separate indication for anticoagulation. [2020] 1.4.26 For people with an ongoing indication for anticoagulation 12 months after an MI, take into consideration all of the following when thinking about the need for continuing antiplatelet therapy: • indication for anticoagulation • bleeding risk • thromboembolic risk • cardiovascular risk • person's wishes. [2013] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on antiplatelet therapy for people with an indication for anticoagulation. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review G: combination therapy. Beta-blockers 1.4.27 Offer people a beta-blocker as soon as possible after an MI, when the person is haemodynamically stable. [2013] 1.4.28 Communicate plans for titrating beta-blockers up to the maximum tolerated or target dose – for example, in the discharge summary. [2013] 1.4.29 Consider continuing a beta-blocker for 12 months after an MI for people without reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. [2020] 1.4.30 Discuss the potential benefits and risks of stopping or continuing beta-blockers beyond 12 months after an MI for people without reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. Include in the discussion: • the lack of evidence on the relative benefits and harms of continuing beyond 12 months • the person's experience of adverse effects. [2020] For a short explanation of why the committee made the 2020 recommendations and how they might affect practice, see the rationale and impact section on duration of beta-blocker treatment after an MI. Full details of the evidence and the committee's discussion are in evidence review H: beta-blockers. 1.4.31 Continue a beta-blocker indefinitely in people with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. [2013] 1.4.32 Offer all people who have had an MI more than 12 months ago, who have reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, a beta-blocker whether or
