Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


supplements containing beta-carotene. Do not recommend antioxidant supplements (vitamin E and/or C) or folic acid to reduce cardiovascular risk. [2007] 1.9.6 Offer people an individual consultation to discuss diet, including their current eating habits, and advice on improving their diet. [2007] 1.9.7 Give people consistent dietary advice tailored to their needs. [2007] 1.9.8 Give people healthy eating advice that can be extended to the whole family. [2007] Alcohol consumption 1.9.9 For advice on alcohol consumption, see the UK government drinking guidelines. [2020] Regular physical activity 1.9.10 Advise people to undertake regular physical activity sufficient to increase exercise capacity. [2007] 1.9.11 Advise people to be physically active for 20 to 30 minutes a day to the point of slight breathlessness. Advise people who are not active to this level to increase their activity in a gradual, step-by-step way, aiming to increase their exercise capacity. They should start at a level that is comfortable, and increase the duration and intensity of activity as they gain fitness. [2007] 1.9.12 Advice on physical activity should involve a discussion about current and past activity levels and preferences. The benefit of exercise may be enhanced by tailored advice from a suitably qualified professional. [2007] Smoking cessation 1.9.13 Advise all people who smoke to stop and offer assistance from a smoking cessation service in line with the NICE guideline on tobacco. [2007] 1.9.14 If a person is unable or unwilling to accept a referral to a stop smoking service, they should be offered pharmacotherapy in line with the NICE guideline on tobacco. [2007, amended 2020] Weight management 1.9.15 After an MI, offer all people who are overweight or obese advice and support to achieve and maintain a healthy weight in line with the NICE guideline on overweight and obesity management. [2007] Terms used in this guideline Bailout glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor Bailout glycoprotein inhibitor (GPI) refers to the use of GPI when the PCI operator has not intended to use GPI from the outset, but considers that clinical or angiographic features (such as worsening or persistent thrombus burden) have changed during the course of the procedure, such that there may be benefit to giving the patient GPI. Recommendations for research The guideline committee has made the following recommendations for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Dual antiplatelet therapy for people aged 75 and over What is the most clinically and cost-effective dual antiplatelet therapy for people aged 75
