Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


for research. Key recommendations for research 1 Dual antiplatelet therapy for people aged 75 and over What is the most clinically and cost-effective dual antiplatelet therapy for people aged 75 and over with an acute coronary syndrome, who are having percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)? [2020] Why this is important The evidence reviewed for this guideline found that prasugrel is the most clinically and cost-effective antiplatelet therapy when used with aspirin for the general acute coronary syndrome population having PCI, particularly for people with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). However, the summary of product characteristics for prasugrel states that its use in people aged 75 and over 'is generally not recommended and should only be undertaken with caution after a careful individual benefit/risk evaluation by the prescribing physician indicates that benefits in terms of prevention of ischaemic events outweigh the risk of serious bleedings'. There were not enough data available for this guideline to determine whether prasugrel is less effective, or even harmful, in people aged 75 and over. Further research is needed to determine the optimal dual antiplatelet therapy for this group of older people. 2 Primary PCI and fibrinolysis in people with acute STEMI who have a long anticipated transfer time for primary PCI In people with acute STEMI who present more than 1 hour after the onset of symptoms, is a primary PCI-related delay of 120 to 180 minutes associated with outcomes similar to, better or worse than pre-hospital administered fibrinolysis? [2013] Why this is important Primary PCI is the preferred coronary reperfusion therapy provided it can be delivered 'in a timely fashion'. It is suggested that primary PCI is the preferred reperfusion strategy for primary PCI-related delays of at least up to 2 hours. However, there is inadequate evidence to conclude whether primary PCI is still preferable at primary PCI-related time delays of more than 2 hours. No specifically designed randomised controlled trial (RCT) or observational study has addressed the issue of the extent to which primary PCI-related time delay (and other factors such as presentation delay and a person's risk profile) diminishes the advantages of primary PCI over fibrinolysis. For example, in more geographically remote areas, a short presentation delay together with an anticipated long primary PCI-related delay could favour a strategy of pre-hospital fibrinolysis. To answer this question, an RCT of pre-hospital fibrinolysis versus primary PCI in people with acute STEMI who have a primary
