Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


PCI-related delay could favour a strategy of pre-hospital fibrinolysis. To answer this question, an RCT of pre-hospital fibrinolysis versus primary PCI in people with acute STEMI who have a primary PCI-related time delay of 2 hours or more is needed. Primary endpoints would include cardiovascular and all-cause mortality and other major adverse cardiovascular events. 3 Ischaemia testing What is the role of ischaemia testing in people after an acute coronary syndrome and what is the comparative efficacy and cost effectiveness of the different non-invasive tests (for example, stress electrocardiogram [ECG], echocardiography, radionuclide scanning and MRI)? [2010] Why this is important An increasing number of non-invasive tests are now available for the investigation of suspected myocardial ischaemia. These tests need different equipment, different clinical expertise, come at different costs and may differ in their ability to detect and quantify myocardial ischaemia. Their place in the routine investigation of patients admitted with unstable angina and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) (particularly those who have not undergone angiography), as opposed to their selective use, is not clear. Management of unstable angina and NSTEMI would be enhanced if the relative place of these investigations were better understood and an assessment of their cost effectiveness made. 4 Relationship between volume of procedures and clinical outcomes What is the relationship between hospital volume of primary PCI procedures and optimal outcomes in people with acute STEMI? [2013] Why this is important There is a suggestion that outcomes may be better in larger-volume primary PCI units, and some retrospective registries have reported data to support this. However, the quality of the data is poor and still leaves the question open. In the UK, primary PCI is provided by units that vary greatly in the number of cases per year. The development of services has been ad hoc and not designed specifically around the provision of primary PCI. If it was possible to conclusively show that people were or were not better off having treatment in larger-volume units, then it would have important implications for the national provision of primary PCI. 5 Risk assessment – risk scoring systems What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of the systematic use of risk scoring systems (in addition to clinical assessment) for ischaemic outcomes and bleeding complications in the management of unstable angina and NSTEMI (at all levels of risk) compared with clinical assessment alone? [2010] Why this is important Most risk
