Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


ischaemic outcomes and bleeding complications in the management of unstable angina and NSTEMI (at all levels of risk) compared with clinical assessment alone? [2010] Why this is important Most risk scoring systems currently predict the likelihood of mortality or ischaemic cardiovascular events at various times after a patient's admission to hospital with an acute coronary syndrome. A number of interventions (such as drugs and revascularisation procedures) have been shown to reduce these adverse outcomes. This effect tends to be greatest in patients at highest risk. However, as a broad generalisation, patients who are at highest ischaemic risk are also those who are at higher risk of bleeding complications associated with the use of multiple antiplatelet and antithrombin agents. There are fewer scoring systems that predict bleeding risk, but we know that bleeding complications are associated with a significantly worse outcome. Using a combination of scoring systems assessing ischaemic and bleeding risk when evaluating data from randomised trials and registries may help to determine where the net clinical benefit (reduction in ischaemic risk minus any increase in bleeding risk) lies. Other recommendations for research 6 Risk assessment – data from cardiac registries For patients with unstable angina and NSTEMI (at differing levels of risk), how do clinical outcome data (adverse cardiovascular events and bleeding complications) collected in cardiac registries compare with data derived from RCTs? [2010] Why this is important Patients recruited to participate in clinical trials are often highly selected; trials tend not to include patients who are very elderly, are at high risk, or have significant comorbidity. On the other hand, good registry data include information on all patients, but are observational and not randomised. Often there is uncertainty about how the outcome data from RCTs can be applied to the much larger unselected population of patients admitted to UK hospitals with unstable angina or NSTEMI. A greater understanding of the differences between RCT and registry populations, and their levels of ischaemic and bleeding risk would help inform future management. Collection of well-validated registry data is essential if conclusions from RCTs are to be applied appropriately to all patients with unstable angina and NSTEMI, not just to patients who are comparable to trial populations. 7 Management of hyperglycaemia What is the optimal management of hyperglycaemia in people with acute coronary syndrome who have diagnosed or previously undiagnosed diabetes? [2011] Why this is important Existing studies on the optimal management
