Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


is the optimal management of hyperglycaemia in people with acute coronary syndrome who have diagnosed or previously undiagnosed diabetes? [2011] Why this is important Existing studies on the optimal management of hyperglycaemia in people who have acute coronary syndrome and diagnosed or previously undiagnosed diabetes are generally of poor quality. It is recommended that a large RCT is conducted for people with acute coronary syndrome and hyperglycaemia (blood glucose 11 mmol/litre and over) stratified by NSTEMI and STEMI and by known diabetes and without a previous diagnosis of diabetes. The interventions for the trial should be intravenous insulin or subcutaneous insulin administered within 4 hours of presentation to hospital. The aim is to achieve blood glucose between 6 and 11 mmol/litre for at least 24 hours. The comparator should be standard care. 8 Beta-blockers Does continuing beta-blocker treatment beyond 1 year after a myocardial infarction (MI) improve outcomes for people with normal left ventricular systolic function? [2013] Why this is important Recent cohort studies have suggested that continuing treatment with a beta-blocker beyond a year after an acute MI may not confer any benefit to the person in terms of reduced morbidity or mortality. This is particularly relevant given recent changes in acute management strategies. While beta-blockers are valuable in reducing mortality and morbidity for up to a year after an MI, they have side effects and represent an additional treatment burden to people who are already taking many other medications. However, there is also some suggestion that there are risks associated with withdrawal of beta- blockers in this population. The balance of risks and benefits of long-term beta blockade has not been clearly determined, particularly in the context of modern acute treatment of MI. Rationale and impact These sections briefly explain why the committee made the recommendations and how they might affect practice. Dual antiplatelet therapy for acute STEMI intended for primary PCI Recommendation 1.1.11 Why the committee made the recommendation Evidence was reviewed comparing the clinical effectiveness of clopidogrel, prasugrel and ticagrelor, each in combination with aspirin, at time-points of 30 days and 1 year. Prasugrel and ticagrelor were more effective than clopidogrel at both time-points. In a network meta-analysis of the 30-day data, prasugrel was more effective than ticagrelor, although with some uncertainty around this conclusion. Prasugrel was more effective than ticagrelor at 1 year with noteworthy differences in all-cause mortality and re-infarction. A detailed cost-effectiveness analysis
