Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


than ticagrelor, although with some uncertainty around this conclusion. Prasugrel was more effective than ticagrelor at 1 year with noteworthy differences in all-cause mortality and re-infarction. A detailed cost-effectiveness analysis was also performed incorporating data at both time-points with either prasugrel or ticagrelor being most cost effective in different scenarios using different clinical data. The results favouring prasugrel were driven by the ISAR-REACT 5 trial that directly compared ticagrelor and prasugrel and these were considered the most relevant. The committee agreed that clinical evidence and cost-effectiveness results are directly applicable to the treatment of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) in the NHS, and recommended prasugrel for people with STEMI undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The final wording of the recommendation reflects the wording of the summary of product characteristics for prasugrel. If there is particular concern about bleeding risk from prasugrel in a person aged 75 or over, either ticagrelor or clopidogrel might be used instead; although ticagrelor is the more cost effective of the two, it also carries a higher bleeding risk. An exception was added for people needing anticoagulation for a separate reason (for example, ongoing atrial fibrillation). For these people, clopidogrel is preferred because of the high bleeding risk of full anticoagulation plus prasugrel. How the recommendation might affect practice In the UK, prasugrel is currently used less than ticagrelor or clopidogrel. The recommendation will therefore require a change in prescribing for most centres, but should be easily achievable. Prasugrel costs less than ticagrelor, but considerably more than clopidogrel, and although some areas will see a cost saving from switching to prasugrel from ticagrelor, the overall effect of this recommendation will be an increase in cost to the NHS. Return to recommendations Antithrombin therapy during primary PCI for acute STEMI Recommendations 1.1.12 and 1.1.13 Why the committee made the recommendations When considering the evidence on the effectiveness of bivalirudin for people with acute STEMI undergoing primary PCI, the committee gave more weight to studies that were closest to current UK practice. These included studies that used bailout or selective, rather than routine, glycoprotein inhibitors (GPIs) and radial artery rather than femoral artery access. The committee concluded that there was no convincing difference between bivalirudin and the main alternative, heparin, in terms of mortality, and that bivalirudin is inferior to heparin in reducing the need for subsequent unplanned revascularisation. The committee discussed data on bleeding risk and agreed
