Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


alternative, heparin, in terms of mortality, and that bivalirudin is inferior to heparin in reducing the need for subsequent unplanned revascularisation. The committee discussed data on bleeding risk and agreed that there is no clinically significant difference between bivalirudin and heparin when radial access is used, but bivalirudin probably lowers the bleeding risk when access via the femoral artery is needed. The committee noted that heparin is cheaper than bivalirudin and easier to administer. How the recommendations might affect practice The committee agreed that the recommendations generally reflect current practice and are not expected to result in a substantial resource impact to the NHS in England. Return to recommendations Complete revascularisation with PCI or culprit vessel only PCI for acute STEMI Recommendations 1.1.16 and 1.1.17 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence showed that complete revascularisation with multivessel PCI reduced cardiovascular mortality, myocardial infarction (MI) and repeat revascularisation at 1 year, compared with culprit vessel only PCI for people with acute STEMI without cardiogenic shock. It was also associated with lower overall costs. Although the evidence clearly favoured complete revascularisation, there was less certainty about the timing of the non-culprit procedure. There are a number of different possible approaches to multivessel PCI: undertaking multivessel revascularisation at the time of primary PCI; treating the culprit vessel during the primary procedure and then bringing the person back to the catheter laboratory for revascularisation of other vessels later in the index admission; or treating the culprit vessel during primary PCI, discharging the person and then electively readmitting them for further revascularisation. The committee agreed that multivessel PCI during the index admission should be considered, either at the time of primary PCI or later during the same admission. They were concerned that the clinical benefits may be lower and costs may be higher when people are discharged and readmitted, and noted that delaying treatment of the non-culprit lesions is worrying for patients. However, they agreed that the optimal timing within the index admission will depend on a number of variables and is best left to the discretion of the clinical team. People with cardiogenic shock were excluded from these studies of multivessel PCI and the committee agreed that, in view of the results from the separate CULPRIT-SHOCK trial, it was not appropriate to recommend multivessel PCI for this group during the index admission. How the recommendations might affect practice Current practice is variable across
