Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


the separate CULPRIT-SHOCK trial, it was not appropriate to recommend multivessel PCI for this group during the index admission. How the recommendations might affect practice Current practice is variable across centres and also within centres. Some offer multivessel PCI during the first procedure for acute STEMI but others may postpone this (either to later within the index admission or to a later readmission). Some operate on the culprit vessel only. The recommendations are therefore likely to result in a change in practice, but not for all centres or all professionals performing PCI. Because the recommendations allow for multivessel PCI to be either at the time of primary PCI or later within the index admission, they offer flexibility to accommodate situations in which there are a number of other people waiting for primary PCI. Healthcare professionals can move on to treat the next person after completing revascularisation of the culprit vessel, minimising the overall impact on primary PCI services. There will be a resource impact for centres not currently undertaking multivessel PCI, because multivessel PCI has higher costs than culprit vessel only PCI. Audit data reported by MINAP (the Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project) between April 2016 and March 2017 show there were 33,797 cases of STEMI reported in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man. It is estimated that around 30% will present with multivessel disease, which would be around 10,000 people. However, it is unclear for how many of these people multivessel PCI would be suitable. The change from current practice is likely to be cost saving overall because of the reduction in later revascularisation procedures. Return to recommendations Drug-eluting stents Recommendations 1.1.18 and 1.2.18 Why the committee made the recommendations Evidence from angiography studies showed that drug-eluting stents are less likely to fail than bare metal stents in terms of both recurrence of obstruction to the target vessel and the need for further revascularisation. The evidence also shows that drug-eluting stents may be beneficial in reducing deaths (all-cause and cardiac) and there is a reduced incidence of MI in the 3 years after revascularisation when drug-eluting stents are used. Costs of drug-eluting stents are higher than bare metal stents, but analyses using current cost and benefit data suggest that they are a cost-effective use of resources. How the recommendations might affect practice The use of drug-eluting stents has been slowly increasing over recent years in the
