Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


data suggest that they are a cost-effective use of resources. How the recommendations might affect practice The use of drug-eluting stents has been slowly increasing over recent years in the UK and the most recent national audit data show that 91% of PCIs for acute coronary syndromes used stents and 97% of these used drug-eluting stents. The recommendation will therefore involve little change from current practice and will not have a substantial resource impact for the NHS in England. Return to recommendations Antiplatelet therapy for STEMI not treated with PCI Recommendations 1.1.24 and 1.1.25 Why the committee made the recommendations The UK licence for prasugrel is for people with acute coronary syndrome who are proceeding to coronary angiography with a view to PCI. Although this is usual practice for most people with STEMI, for some people, either medical management without coronary revascularisation or coronary artery surgery are better options. Direct evidence in these patient groups was lacking; the evidence comparing the clinical effectiveness of clopidogrel and ticagrelor was largely for people receiving PCI. This showed convincing superiority of ticagrelor in reducing mortality (cardiac and all-cause) and in preventing re-infarction and the need for future revascularisation procedures, although there was some evidence of an increased risk of bleeding complications. The committee agreed to recommend ticagrelor for people with STEMI having medical management unless they are at high risk of bleeding when clopidogrel or no second antiplatelet may be the safer option. However, the committee were aware that some of the excess bleeding risk comes from complications of a PCI procedure, which is not relevant to this particular group of people with acute coronary syndrome. They therefore made a recommendation to offer ticagrelor in most cases but to consider clopidogrel as an alternative when the bleeding risk is high. How the recommendations might affect practice In the UK, both ticagrelor and clopidogrel are currently used for STEMI that is managed without PCI. The recommendations require a change in practice for most, but not all, people who would otherwise receive clopidogrel. Ticagrelor costs considerably more than clopidogrel, and although the recommendations apply to a minority of people with STEMI, the effect will be an increase in cost to the NHS. Return to recommendations Initial antithrombin therapy for unstable angina and NSTEMI Recommendations 1.2.3 and 1.2.16 Why the committee made the recommendations The 2010 NICE guideline on unstable angina and NSTEMI recommended fondaparinux rather
