Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


Initial antithrombin therapy for unstable angina and NSTEMI Recommendations 1.2.3 and 1.2.16 Why the committee made the recommendations The 2010 NICE guideline on unstable angina and NSTEMI recommended fondaparinux rather than low molecular weight heparin for initial management. The recommendation was based mainly on evidence from a single large study (the OASIS-5 study). This study showed a small risk of catheter thrombosis when fondaparinux was the only antithrombin used before angiography, and therefore the 2010 guideline recommended not to use fondaparinux when angiography is planned within 24 hours. The thrombosis risk was noted by the OASIS-5 investigators before the study ended, and in the later phase of the study, people were given intravenous unfractionated heparin with fondaparinux during angiography; this appeared to remove the excess risk of catheter thrombosis. Two further small studies published after 2010 have confirmed that giving unfractionated heparin during angiography to people already receiving fondaparinux removed the excess risk of catheter thrombosis. The committee considered that unfractionated heparin is already used in this way in many centres, agreed with the 2010 guideline that fondaparinux is the most cost-effective option, and were able to remove the caveat about avoiding fondaparinux if catheterisation is planned within 24 hours. They recommended that fondaparinux should be given to people who are not at high risk of bleeding unless they are having immediate angiography. People receiving fondaparinux should be given additional systemic unfractionated heparin in the catheter laboratory. How the recommendations might affect practice Fondaparinux is already used before angiography in many centres in the UK, with additional unfractionated heparin given during the procedure. The recommendations will affect those centres currently withholding fondaparinux from people having angiography in the next 24 hours. Fondaparinux is a cheaper option than low molecular weight heparin so the recommendation could be cost saving in these centres. Return to recommendations Early invasive versus conservative management for unstable angina and NSTEMI Recommendations 1.2.12 to 1.2.15 and 1.2.20 Why the committee made the recommendations The 2010 guideline on unstable angina and non-ST-segment elevation MI (NSTEMI) recommended a comprehensive assessment of baseline risk of adverse events. The committee agreed that this should influence the choice between early invasive intervention (coronary angiography, with PCI if indicated) and conservative management (initial medical management, proceeding to coronary angiography and PCI if there is evidence of recurrent ischaemia). Studies comparing these options show a short-term harm with an invasive strategy, but this is
