Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


medical management, proceeding to coronary angiography and PCI if there is evidence of recurrent ischaemia). Studies comparing these options show a short-term harm with an invasive strategy, but this is offset by the clinical benefits in the months following the procedure. A cost-effectiveness analysis found that routine early invasive intervention was cost effective in people at higher risk of adverse events, but conservative management was the most cost-effective option for people at lower risk. This was because overall health gains were greater in those at higher baseline risk. Most of the evidence was already available at the time of the 2010 guideline, and the committee recognised that the data may be less applicable to modern practice than had been the case in 2010. Nonetheless, they agreed that early angiography should be the default recommendation for most people at intermediate or higher baseline risk of adverse outcomes. They accepted the previous committee's interpretation of the appropriate risk cut-offs based on their detailed work mapping of the evidence to real-world UK risk data. However, the committee also recognised that the risk prediction models might be less applicable to the youngest people with unstable angina and NSTEMI who are relatively under-represented in the dataset, and therefore added a cautionary recommendation to this effect. The committee noted that the 2010 guideline had recommended that angiography should be done within 96 hours of admission for those who are likely to benefit from an early invasive strategy. However, they considered this a conservative target and knew that angiography within 72 hours is now common practice. This allows time for a correct diagnosis, immediate stabilisation and treatment of symptoms, and transfer to a centre with PCI facilities if necessary. The available evidence does not permit a definitive statement about the optimal timing, but a recommendation to consider angiography within 72 hours was agreed. How the recommendations might affect practice The recommendations largely reflect current NHS practice. Although the timeframe for early invasive management has been reduced from 96 hours, 72 hours has been specified in the NICE quality standard for a number of years and a best practice tariff on the same basis was introduced in 2017. Audit data are only currently available from the same year as the introduction of the tariff and report that, of people who are admitted to a hospital that can perform angiography, 56% received angiography within 72 hours and 69% within
