Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


as the introduction of the tariff and report that, of people who are admitted to a hospital that can perform angiography, 56% received angiography within 72 hours and 69% within 96 hours. The proportion receiving angiography within 72 hours is likely to be higher since the introduction of the best practice tariff. Performing angiography earlier is likely to result in a shorter hospital stay. The recommendations are unlikely to result in a substantial resource impact for the NHS. Return to recommendations Antiplatelet therapy for unstable angina and NSTEMI Recommendations 1.2.6, 1.2.17, 1.2.21 and 1.2.22 Why the committee made the recommendations Dual antiplatelet therapy on initial presentation The committee agreed that dual antiplatelet therapy should not be offered to people with chest pain before a diagnosis of unstable angina or NSTEMI is made. In their experience, dual antiplatelet therapy had caused harm (bleeding) in some people presenting with chest pain not caused by an acute coronary syndrome. Unstable angina and NSTEMI intended for PCI Evidence was reviewed comparing the clinical effectiveness of clopidogrel, prasugrel and ticagrelor, each in combination with aspirin, at time-points of 30 days and 1 year. A detailed cost-effectiveness analysis for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI undergoing PCI was performed incorporating these data. Although the overall conclusion was that prasugrel is a more effective agent than ticagrelor, which in turn is more effective than clopidogrel, there was considerable uncertainty around the cost-effectiveness results, with either prasugrel or ticagrelor being most cost effective in different scenarios using different clinical data. The results favouring prasugrel were driven by the ISAR-REACT 5 trial, in which time to angiography was much shorter than is currently achieved in the UK for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI. This could cause practical difficulty in using prasugrel because its licence effectively prevents its use before angiography, and this could leave people with unstable angina or NSTEMI without dual antiplatelet therapy for several days. The committee therefore recommended either prasugrel or ticagrelor for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI intended for PCI, depending on individual circumstances. The final wording of the recommendation reflects the wording of the summary of product characteristics for prasugrel. Unstable angina and NSTEMI – management when PCI is not indicated Although many people with unstable angina or NSTEMI proceed to PCI, for some medical management without coronary revascularisation or coronary artery surgery are better options. Prasugrel is not licensed in these
