Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


many people with unstable angina or NSTEMI proceed to PCI, for some medical management without coronary revascularisation or coronary artery surgery are better options. Prasugrel is not licensed in these circumstances. The evidence available for medical management shows better outcomes with ticagrelor than clopidogrel. This is consistent with results from the larger datasets for people having PCI. The committee therefore recommended ticagrelor for people with unstable angina or NSTEMI having either medical management without coronary revascularisation or coronary artery surgery. However, the committee also noted that clopidogrel may be the safer agent for people who are at high risk of bleeding but still need dual antiplatelet therapy, although this is based on evidence of higher bleeding risk with ticagrelor in people with an acute coronary syndrome generally rather than specific evidence from those at higher risk. They therefore made a recommendation to consider using clopidogrel in this situation. How the recommendations might affect practice In the UK, prasugrel is currently used less than ticagrelor or clopidogrel. The recommendations may therefore involve a change in practice for some centres. Prasugrel costs less than ticagrelor, but considerably more than clopidogrel, and although some areas will see a cost saving from switching to prasugrel from ticagrelor, others will see an increase where either prasugrel or ticagrelor is used instead of clopidogrel. The overall effect of these recommendations will be an increase in cost to the NHS. Return to recommendations Antiplatelet therapy for people with an indication for anticoagulation Recommendations 1.4.21 to 1.4.25 Why the committee made the recommendations The committee noted that current practice is to use dual antiplatelet therapy at the time of PCI, and found no evidence to recommend changing this practice for people who are on an anticoagulant at the time of admission. In practice, the anticoagulant will often be suspended for a short period (perhaps using heparin cover). The evidence available showed that continuing dual antiplatelet therapy plus an anticoagulant after the acute PCI phase increases the risk of bleeding complications, and so a recommendation raising awareness of this issue was included. The committee therefore agreed that either aspirin or the second antiplatelet agent should be stopped, but unfortunately there was no evidence to show at what point this should happen. In the absence of any conclusive data, recommendations for treatment after the initial phase were based on the knowledge and experience of the committee. For people who have
