Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


should happen. In the absence of any conclusive data, recommendations for treatment after the initial phase were based on the knowledge and experience of the committee. For people who have had PCI and stent insertion, they agreed that it would be safest to combine an anticoagulant with a potent antiplatelet agent (clopidogrel), whereas for those who have had medical management or had angioplasty without stenting, the anticoagulant should be combined with aspirin. There was not enough evidence for the committee to recommend a particular anticoagulant. How the recommendations might affect practice Current practice is variable, with people taking different combinations of antiplatelets and anticoagulants. The number of people affected is small. It is estimated that between 5% and 15% of people with an acute coronary syndrome will have an indication for oral anticoagulation. The recommendations are mostly unchanged from the 2013 guideline and the minor changes that have been made are unlikely to result in a substantial resource impact for the NHS in England. Return to recommendations Duration of beta-blocker treatment after an MI Recommendations 1.4.29 and 1.4.30 Why the committee made the recommendations There was no direct evidence on the optimal duration of beta-blocker treatment for people who have had an MI but do not have reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. The 2013 guideline recommended beta-blocker treatment for at least 12 months. In the absence of any conclusive evidence, the committee agreed that they could not recommend a definite time for stopping treatment. However, they agreed that healthcare professionals should discuss the absence of clear evidence for benefit of continuing beyond 12 months with people taking beta-blockers after an MI who have normal left ventricular function. This should prompt a personalised approach to stopping or continuing beta-blockers based on the person's attitude to risk and experience of side effects. How the recommendations might affect practice Beta-blockers are currently offered for at least 12 months after an MI to people without reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. Audit data show that around 97% of people with MI are discharged on beta-blockers. A discussion of the absence of clear evidence for benefit of continuing treatment beyond 12 months is likely to lead to more people deciding to stop treatment at this point. Any reduction in prescriptions for beta-blockers will be cost saving. Return to recommendations Context Acute coronary syndromes due to ischaemic heart disease remain a significant cause of morbidity and mortality.
