Acute coronary syndromes
KEYWORDS: people, pci, risk, coronary, acute, recommendations, therapy, committee, evidence, angina, unstable, unstable angina, nstemi, offer, stemi


Any reduction in prescriptions for beta-blockers will be cost saving. Return to recommendations Context Acute coronary syndromes due to ischaemic heart disease remain a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. In 2015, heart disease remained the leading cause of death in men and the second most common cause of death in women in England. In 2015/16, more than 58,000 people were admitted to hospital in England with a heart attack. Although many more people now survive than in the past, there remains considerable scope to reduce their future risk of death, angina, heart failure and further heart attack. National audits continue to show variation in practice across the UK in the treatments offered for acute coronary syndromes. This, combined with evidence of novel ways of treating acute coronary syndromes and updates to existing treatments, indicates a need for an updated guideline that will help deliver best practice to the large number of people receiving treatment for acute coronary syndromes in the NHS. Finding more information and committee details To find NICE guidance on related topics, including guidance in development, see the NICE topic page on cardiovascular conditions. For full details of the evidence and the guideline committee's discussions, see the evidence reviews. You can also find information about how the guideline was developed, including details of the committee. NICE has produced tools and resources to help you put this guideline into practice. For general help and advice on putting our guidelines into practice, see resources to help you put NICE guidance into practice. Update information November 2020: This guideline updates: • NICE guideline CG172 (published November 2013) • NICE guideline CG167 (published July 2013) • NICE technology appraisal guidance 230 (published July 2011) • NICE guideline CG94 (published March 2010) • NICE technology appraisal guidance 152 (published July 2008) • NICE technology appraisal guidance 71 (published October 2003). It incorporates unchanged NICE guideline CG130 (published October 2011). We have reviewed the evidence on dual antiplatelet therapy, early angiography for unstable angina and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), antithrombin therapy before percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), complete revascularisation versus culprit vessel only PCI for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), drug-eluting stents, combination antiplatelet and anticoagulant treatment for people with a separate indication for anticoagulation, and duration of beta- blocker treatment for people with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction after MI. We have made new recommendations. These recommendations are marked [2020]. We have
