Thorax(1975),30, 278.
KEYWORDS: case, intramural, diverticulosis, oesophagus, cases, diverticula, oesophageal, intramural diverticulosis, showed, mendl, lower, barium, journal, weller, fig


mildly con- chest pains. In spite of the absence of relevant gested. There was some distortion due to the symptoms, repeat radiographs in 1968 showed no previous pneumonectomy. There was a smooth improvement in the appearance of intramural narrowing of the lower oesophagus which was diverticulosis and diffuse loweroesophagealspasm. readily dilated with bougies. A biopsy revealed mucosa with underlying CASE 2 A man aged 65 was in long-stay care due fibrous tissue, muscle fibres, and focal infiltration to paraplegia dating from early childhood. He had oflymphocytes. The epithelium washypertrophied been bedridden since 1967. In January 1970 he and was thrown into folds, which sent down pro- began to complain of substernal pain on swallow- cesses into the underlying fibrous tissue. Some ing. A barium study showed multiple intramural of these processes revealed a central lumen which diverticula confined to the lower 4 cm of the in one case was filled with desquamated epithelial oesophagus (Fig. 3). There was sustained spasmof cells (Fig. 2). These appeared to be the mouths this segment. There was also a sliding hiatus of small diverticula. No mucous glands were hernia and a deformed duodenal cap. Endoscopy present in the specimen. showed intense inflammation of the lower oeso- Other biopsies showed epithelial hyperplasia phagus, but the lumen was widely patent. and mild chronic inflammatory cell infiltration. During the next three years the dysphagia Following bouginage swallowing returned to fluctuated, but the main complaint was of post- normal. During five years' follow-up there was no prandial pain, sometimes radiating to the inter- significant dysphagia nor any recurrence of lung scapular area. His forced recumbencywasthought disease, although the patient had spells of depres- to be an aggravating factor. Treatment was based sion and cancer phobia with anorexia and vague on weight reduction and antacids. A barium FIG. 2. Case 1. Oesophageal biopsy showing invaginations of hypertrophied mucosa at the mouths of diverticula. Haematoxylin andeosin X60. 280 R. D. Montgomery, K. Mendl, andS. F. Stephenson picture. In 1974 there were fresh bouts of dys- phagia. Oesophagoscopy at this time revealed no organic stricture, and mucosal biopsies were essentially normal. CASE 4 A man aged 64 presented in July 1969 with two months' history of substernal pain, vomiting, and dysphagia. He was found to have a gastric carcinoma involving the cardia and the lower 5 cm of oesophagus. A partial oesophago- gastrectomy with splenectomy was performed. The lower third of
