Thorax(1975),30, 278.
KEYWORDS: case, intramural, diverticulosis, oesophagus, cases, diverticula, oesophageal, intramural diverticulosis, showed, mendl, lower, barium, journal, weller, fig


He was found to have a gastric carcinoma involving the cardia and the lower 5 cm of oesophagus. A partial oesophago- gastrectomy with splenectomy was performed. The lower third of the oesophagus was removed ..2 ....... ... _ ... .... FIG. 3. Case 2. Barium study. Multiple diverticula-----...l in the lower oesophagus above a small hiatus hernia. swallow was repeated on two occasions and _ showed no change. CASE 3 A 70-year-old woman was admitted to a long-stay geriatric ward in September 1971 with confusion andincontinence dueto cerebrovascular disease. One year later she complained of dis- comfort in the throat lasting about two weeks. She was reluctant to swallow and began to lose weight. A barium swallow showed a narrowed segment _ of upper oesophagus, 2 cm in length, at the level of the second thoracic vertebra with intramural diverticulosis localized to this area (Fig. 4). There was marked spastic activity confined to this seg- ment, the lumen varying from complete oblitera- tion to a maximal diameter of 9 mm. Apart from the projection of narrow-necked diverticula the FIG. 4. Case 3. (a) Barium study showing a con- contours at the site of narrowing were smooth. stricted segment of oesophagus with intramural No other lesion was seen. diverticula. (b) Barium study of upper oesophagus The patient's symptoms improved spontane- during relaxation. The 'shouldering' effect on the ously but radiographs in 1972 showed the same barium column indicates muscle hypertrophy. I - - Intramuraldiverticulosisof theoesophagus 281 and an oesophagogastric anastomosis was effected behind the hilum of the left lung. The tumour was a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma; the removed regional lymph nodes were free of growth. His postoperative course was satisfactory. Dur- ing 1970 he had occasional sudden total blockage on swallowing solids, and by July 1971 this was happening nearly every day. Oesophagoscopy showed a narrow anastomosis but no evidence of oesophagitis and no recurrence of growth. A biopsyshowed moderate inflammatory cellinfiltra- tionofthe laminapropria. After dilatation, his symptoms improved for several months, but sudden bouts of dysphagia then recurred, and oesophagoscopy in July 1972 showed increased narrowing which appeared to be due to spasm. Self-bouginage was tried with par- tial success. Mucaine also afforded some relief, and the patient's symptoms have improved but still recur sporadically. A preoperative barium swallow in 1969 showed a dilated oesophagus full of debris above a poly- poid growth; no intramural abnormality was seen. Repeat radiographs
