Thorax(1975),30, 278.
KEYWORDS: case, intramural, diverticulosis, oesophagus, cases, diverticula, oesophageal, intramural diverticulosis, showed, mendl, lower, barium, journal, weller, fig


improved but still recur sporadically. A preoperative barium swallow in 1969 showed a dilated oesophagus full of debris above a poly- poid growth; no intramural abnormality was seen. Repeat radiographs in June 1972 revealed a smooth anastomosis 10 cm below the lower border of the aortic arch. The segment of oesophagus below the arch contained numerous intramural FIG. 5. Case 4. Barium study showing intramural diverticula in the remaining mid-segment of oeso- phagus following resection. diverticula (Fig. 5). In April 1973 the general appearance was unchanged, but the diverticula were much less evident. DISCUSSION With the addition of these four cases, a pub- lished series of 16 patients is available for review, and a clearer picture is possible of the salient features of this condition. PRESENTING SYMPTOMS Ten of the 16 patients were males. Theirages rangedfrom 11 to83 years. In every case the primary symptom was dysphagia for solids. In three young subjects this dated from infancy (Culver and Chaudhari, 1967; Cramer, _ .....1972; Weller, 1972); in others the length ofhistory .............. ranged from a few weeks to 18 years. The dys- phagia was often abrupt, total, and episodic in nature sometimes leading to emergency hospital admission. In one case only five episodes had oc- curred in five years (Hodes et at., 1966). Pain was not a prominent feature of the dysphagia, except .-.... in two cases with lower oesophagitis associated -- with hiatus hernia (Mendl et al., 1973 case 2), two FIG. 4(b) cases with moniliasis, and Weller and Lutzker's 282 R. D. Montgomery, K. Mendi, andS. F. Stephenson case (1971) ofalkaline oesophagitis followingtotal confined to a segment of oesophagus, and this gastrectomy. segmentwaseitheratthelevelofastricture (three cases) or at the site of prolonged but remittent RADIOLOGICAL FEATURES Barium studies have spasm (four cases). In our present series all four been thoroughly documented. Consistent features cases on radiography showed segments of tonic of the diverticula are the extremely narrow necks, contraction but no stenosis. Diverticulosis was which may be obliterated during muscle contrac- mainly confined to these segments, but in case 1 tion, and the bulbous ends which nearly all lie at it was more diffuse. a constant depth corresponding to the thickness In Weller's two cases, and in our case 4, diver- of the oesophageal wall. It is now apparent that ticulosis was seen to develop in a segment of in every case there has been either a stenosed oesophagus
