Thorax(1975),30, 278.
KEYWORDS: case, intramural, diverticulosis, oesophagus, cases, diverticula, oesophageal, intramural diverticulosis, showed, mendl, lower, barium, journal, weller, fig


4, diver- of the oesophageal wall. It is now apparent that ticulosis was seen to develop in a segment of in every case there has been either a stenosed oesophagus where it was not demonstrable segment at some level of the oesophagus, or a previously. diffuse sustained hypertonicity, or both. In addi- In two cases (Zatzkin et al., 1968; Cramer, tion, Hodes et al. (1966) described 'hyperperistal- 1972) there was the appearance of an anterior sis, which was at times deep and segmenting'. In pharyngo-oesophageal web. In neither case was the case of Weller and Lutzker (1971) there was this the site of obstruction, and the significance 'total oesophageal irritability, and tertiary oeso- ofthis findingis doubtful. phageal contractions were seen', and in Weller's Oesophageal moniliasis was present in three second case (1972) cine radiography showed dis- patients (Zatzkin et al., 1968; Troupin, 1968; ordered motor activity above a stricture. Mendl Creely and Trail, 1970). All were elderly negro et al. (1960) observed irregularity of contractions women; in one there was severe dental caries and indicating a neuromuscular incoordination; while stomatitis. The radiological appearancesofdiverti- in the later case of Mendl et al. (1973) violent cula at and below the level of a stricture in Trou- propulsive contractions were seen to originate in pin's case bore some resemblance to the condition a narrowed and hypertrophied segment in the that we are describing, but the typical, narrow mid-oesophagus. necks and bulbous ends were not a constant fea- A degree of localized narrowing was evident in ture. In Zatzkin's patient the abnormalities were 12 of the 16 cases. In Weller and Lutzker's diffuse and florid, the protrusions were irregular patient this was adjacent to the site of oesophago- in shape, and many of them were broad-based. In jejunostomy and was probably an organic post- a subsequent report on the same case, Smulewicz inflammatory stricture. In two young subjects and Dorfman (1971) showed how these changes with upper oesophageal hold-up a congenital stric- resolved into frank ulceration and later healed ture was implied, but there was no evidence as to with antibiotic therapy. The radiographic appear- its nature (Culver and Chaudhari, 1967; Cramer, ances resembled those of other examples of oeso- 1972). In all the other cases there was some evi- phageal moniliasis (Andren and Theander, 1956; dence that narrowing, when present, was due to Kaufman, Scheff, and Levene, 1960). localized muscular hypertonus rather than
