Thorax(1975),30, 278.
KEYWORDS: case, intramural, diverticulosis, oesophagus, cases, diverticula, oesophageal, intramural diverticulosis, showed, mendl, lower, barium, journal, weller, fig


other cases there was some evi- phageal moniliasis (Andren and Theander, 1956; dence that narrowing, when present, was due to Kaufman, Scheff, and Levene, 1960). localized muscular hypertonus rather than a A monilial invasion of the oesophagus had fibrous stricture. Hodes et al. (1966), for example, modified the picture in both cases, and itwouldbe demonstrated hold-up of a capsule given with a unwise to draw firm conclusions as to whether a barium swallow, and subsequently at endoscopy true intramural diverticulosis was present, and a limabean was found atthe same level, but there ifsowhetheritprecededorfollowedtheinfection. was no obstruction to the instrument. In Creely and Trail's case (1970), however, the In both cases of presumed congenital stricture monilial overgrowth was probably incidental. it was stated that oesophageal motor activity was normal. However, as Weller and Lutzker (1971) ENDOSCOPY AND BIOPSY The appearances at pointed out, an area of increased resistance any- oesophagoscopy have contributed little to our where in the oesophagus can be expected to trig- understanding of the nature of the diverticula; ger the propagation of forceful peristaltic waves these have only been visualized by Creely and throughout its length. It is reasonable to suppose Trail (1970) in a strictured oesophagus which was that episodes of obstructive dysphagia would be hyperaemic. The fourother cases ofinflammation accompanied by violent muscular contractions due to either moniliasis or reflux oesophagitis which in these particular patients were not ap- have already been mentioned. In all other cases, parent atother times. apart from segments of concentric narrowing, the With regard to the distribution of the diverti- oesophageal mucosa has appeared normal at cula, these were either diffuse (nine cases) or oesophagoscopy. Intramuraldiverticulosisoftheoesophagus 283 Superficial biopsies have revealed only mild lent oesophagitis, and in some cases the mucosa chronic inflammatory changes. Biopsy in case 1 is has been virtually normal. of some significance since it revealed a hyper- Wightman andWright(1974)recentlypublished trophic, folded mucosa with deep processes the first necropsy report on this condition. Their extending into the submucosa, an appearance findings confirmed the presence of epithelial consistent with true pulsion diverticulosis. Similar hyperplasia and the absence of acute inflamma- histological evidence of a mucosal diverticulum tion. They observed varying degrees of dilatation waspublished byWeller(1972). of the mucous glands. Although the diverticular ducts were lined with squamous epithelium, they believed that these ducts had their origin in the SUBSEQUENT COURSE On follow-up, both the mucous glands. While it is
