Thorax(1975),30, 278.
KEYWORDS: case, intramural, diverticulosis, oesophagus, cases, diverticula, oesophageal, intramural diverticulosis, showed, mendl, lower, barium, journal, weller, fig


Although the diverticular ducts were lined with squamous epithelium, they believed that these ducts had their origin in the SUBSEQUENT COURSE On follow-up, both the mucous glands. While it is quite possible that symptoms of dysphagia and the radiological dilated mucous glands could represent sites of appearance of diverticulosis tend to remain relative weakness in the oesophageal wall, in our unchanged (Mendl etal., 1960; Hodes etal., 1966; opinion these authors have failed to stress the Culver and Chaudhari, 1967). underlying importance of muscle spasm with In case 1 the radiographic changes persisted raised intraluminal pressure in the formation of even in the absence of symptoms. In other cases, diverticula. good symptomatic remission has been obtained Oesophageal motility is deranged either as a after repeated endoscopies and bouginage, and on result of obstruction, or after surgical interrup- radiography the diverticulosis has improved tion of continuity, or more often through some (Cramer, 1972; Weller, 1972; case 4) or even dis- intrinsic defectwhichisnotunderstoodbutwhich appeared (Weller and Lutzker, 1971). The radio- is probably related to previous inflammation. graphic improvement implies not only a failure Moersch and Camp (1934) describedthe condition to fill some diverticula at their previous site, but of 'diffuse spasm of the lower oesophagus' as a an actual shrinkage of those that are outlined. clinical entitywhichseems applicable toanumber of cases in this series. The nature of this disorder PATHOGENESIS For some years the nature of this and its relation to muscle hypertrophy was re- condition was obscure. Mendl et al. (1960) be- viewed by Bennett and Hendrix (1970); hyper- lieved that deranged muscular activity was the sensitivity to pentagastrin has recently been direct cause of hernial protrusions of intact reported (Eckardt and Weigand, 1974). mucosa through points of weakness in the oeso- In our previous case , the phageal wall-and drew attention to the close localization of deep intramural diverticula to a similarity to intramural diverticulosis of the gall- segment of severely spastic and hypertrophied bladder (the Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses). When muscle clearly points to a direct relationship. In thenextcase was reportedbyHodes etal. in 1966, this casie there was the possibility of damage by their findings were consistent with thisview; how- trauma 30 years previously. In Mendl's original ever they questioned whether the appearances case there was also some evi- might be due to dilatation of the deep mucous dence of previous deep inflammation with para- glands inresponse tounrecognizedchronicinflam- oesophageal adhesions. mation-analogous to
