Thorax(1975),30, 278.
KEYWORDS: case, intramural, diverticulosis, oesophagus, cases, diverticula, oesophageal, intramural diverticulosis, showed, mendl, lower, barium, journal, weller, fig


appearances case there was also some evi- might be due to dilatation of the deep mucous dence of previous deep inflammation with para- glands inresponse tounrecognizedchronicinflam- oesophageal adhesions. mation-analogous to the dilatation of bronchial The deranged motor activity is a non-specific mucous glands in chronic lung disease. response, thus it is quite possible (if unproven) These authors further suggested that the under- that diverticulosis could arise as a sequel to lying cause might be moniliasis, a view which moniliasis. Gastro-oesophageal reflux may have gained support with the publication of causes of played a causal role in some cases, but there is moniliasis by Troupin (1968) and Zatzkin et al. no evidence that it featured in the majority. (1968). In these particular patients, as already The analogy to Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses in described, the infection was florid and readily the gall-bladder is a close one. It is now recog- recognized, and the appearances were quite atypi- nized that this is a condition of pulsion cal. The negative findings in subsequent cases of diverticulosis resulting from repeated rises of intramural diverticulosis exclude this as a causal intraluminal pressure and over-distension, with factor. Zatzkin et al. (1968) suggested that the associatedmusclehypertrophyandchronicinflam- protrusions might be 'collar stud' abscesses due to matory changes (Halpert, 1927; Robertson and intense oesophagitis, but this is not consistent Ferguson, 1945; Colquhoun, 1961). Although the nothing to suggest the presence ofsevere orpuru- there may be segmental muscle hypertrophy with 284 R. D. Montgomery, K. Mendl, andS. F. Stephenson stenosis, the diverticula being deeper and more Halpert, B. (1927). Morphological studies on gall- numerous at the site of hypertrophy (Mendl, bladder: development and microscopic structure of normal human gall-bladder. Bulletin of Johns unpublished). Intramural diverticulosis of the oesophagus is Hodes, P. J., Atkins, J. P., and Hodes, B. L. (1966). an unusual finding, but the fact that four cases Esophageal intramural diverticulosis. American have been encountered by one radiologist (K. M.) Journal of Roentgenology, 96, 411. in the space of 14 years suggests that it is not Kaufman, S. A., Scheff, S., and Levene, G. (1960). excessively rare. It seems surprising that it was Esophageal moniliasis. Radiology, 75, 726. not recognized prior to 1960, despite a number Lane, J. W. (1972). Intramural esophageal diverti- of reviews of oesophageal disease including pul- culosis: a case report. Journal of the Arkansas sion diverticula (Habein et al., 1956; Mustard, Medical Society, 69, 87. 1957). Mendl,
