NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver, syndrome, rash, drug, patients, fever, cases, developed, year, hypersensitivity, injury


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Allopurinol. [Updated 2025 Jul 25]. Bookshelf URL: Allopurinol Updated: July 25, 2025. OVERVIEW Introduction Allopurinol is a xanthine oxidase inhibitor and a widely used medication for gout. Allopurinol is a rare but well known cause of acute liver injury that has features of a hypersensitivity reaction and can be severe and even fatal. Background Allopurinol (al' oh pure' i nol) is an analog of hypoxanthine and a potent inhibitor of the enzyme xanthine oxidase that is responsible for converting hypoxanthine to xanthine and xanthine to uric acid in the breakdown pathway of purines. Allopurinol lowers serum and tissue uric acid levels and has potent activity against gout, largely in preventing rather than treating acute attacks of gout. Allopurinol was approved for use in the United States in 1963 and is still widely used. Current indications include therapy and prevention of symptomatic gout, uric acid nephropathy, and the hyperuricemia caused by malignancy and anticancer therapy. It is not recommended for treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Allopurinol is available in multiple generic forms and under the brand name of Zyloprim or Aloprim in tablets of 100 and 300 mg. Intravenous formulations are also available. The recommended initial dose for therapy of gout is 100 mg daily, with increases of 100 mg in daily dose weekly until uric acid levels fall to 6 mg/dL or below, but not to exceed 800 mg daily. The average daily dose in therapy of gout is 300 mg. Common side effects include skin rash and hypersensitivity reactions. Rare but potentially severe adverse events include severe cutaneous reactions including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, Stevens Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). Hepatotoxicity Chronic therapy with allopurinol is associated with transient and minor liver test abnormalities in 2% to 6% of patients, which resolve spontaneously or with drug discontinuation. More importantly, allopurinol has been linked to a very distinctive form of acute liver injury that is accompanied by prominent immunoallergic manifestations such as fever, rash, eosinophilia, lymphadenopathy, atypical lymphocytosis, thrombocytopenia, arthralgias and facial edema (drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms — DRESS syndrome) (Case 1). The typical latency to onset is 2 to 8 weeks and liver injury arising during long term therapy is uncommon. The pattern of liver enzyme elevations tends to be mixed, but can
