NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver, syndrome, rash, drug, patients, fever, cases, developed, year, hypersensitivity, injury


latency to onset is 2 to 8 weeks and liver injury arising during long term therapy is uncommon. The pattern of liver enzyme elevations tends to be mixed, but can be hepatocellular or purely cholestatic. Autoantibodies are not common. In some cases, rash and fever arise before evidence of liver injury, and elevations in serum enzymes and bilirubin occur 1 to 2 weeks after the first immunoallergic manifestations. Eosinophilia in addition may arise only after the clinical manifestations. The systemic symptoms and signs of DRESS syndrome caused by allopurinol can also be manifested by renal, pulmonary, or pancreatic dysfunction 2 LiverTox and even acalculous cholecystitis. More severe forms of allopurinol hypersensitivity reactions include Stevens Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), both of which are commonly accompanied by signs of liver injury, although the liver injury is often mild and transient serum aminotransferase elevations without jaundice. Overall, allopurinol hypersensitivity reactions have a high fatality rate, either from acute liver failure, chronic cholestatic injury or complications of other allergic manifestations such as toxic epidermal necrolysis, vasculitis, pancreatitis, and renal dysfunction. The incidence of acute, symptomatic liver injury due to allopurinol is estimated to be between 1 in 4,000 to 1 in 5,000 persons newly started on therapy. African and Asian ancestry and preexisting renal disease appear to be important risk factors for hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol. Likelihood score: A (well established cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Histopathology Liver biopsy in allopurinol hepatotoxicity typically shows an acute cholestatic or mixed hepatitis. Bile duct injury may be prominent early and loss of bile ducts later during the course. Histology can also show granulomas including "ring" granulomas that are typically associated with visceral infections such as Q fever or Kala-azar. Granulomas may be found in other organs as well and represent a typical histological correlate to the immunoallergic response to a medication. Two examples of the histology of allopurinol hepatotoxicity are shown below: one with a cholestatic hepatitis and another with acute granulomatous changes. CHOLESTATIC HEPATITIS Allopurinol may cause cholestatic hepatitis. This case shows canalicular (arrow) and hepatocellular cholestasis in zone 3. Only very mild inflammation is present in this photo. The central vein (V) is indicated. Allopurinol 3 CHOLESTATIC HEPATITIS continued from previous page. In this case, there was mild portal inflammation, mainly composed of lymphocytes. In over half the portal areas, no duct could be found, consistent with a vanishing
