NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver, syndrome, rash, drug, patients, fever, cases, developed, year, hypersensitivity, injury


from previous page. In this case, there was mild portal inflammation, mainly composed of lymphocytes. In over half the portal areas, no duct could be found, consistent with a vanishing bile duct syndrome. This portal area only shows an artery (A) and vein (V). GRANULOMATOUS HEPATITIS This case had granulomas in almost all of the portal areas. In this portal, the epithelioid macrophages (arrow) of the granulomas are in the center part of the portal area. Th e granuloma is surrounded by a mixed inflammatory infiltrate of lymphocytes, neutrophils and eosinophils. A cluster of eosinophils is indicated by the arrowhead. 4 LiverTox GRANULOMATOUS HEPATITIS continued from previous page. Another portal area showing a granuloma (arrow) along with mixed inflammation. A fibrin‐ring granuloma was present in this case. A fibrin‐ ring granuloma is a granuloma that forms around a lipid droplet (L). A thin, irregular, ring of brightly eosinophilic fibrin can be seen running circumferentially around the lipid drop. It is best seen at the bottom (arrow). Mechanism of Injury The mechanism of allopurinol hepatotoxicity is believed to be immunoallergic. Many cases resemble those of anticonvulsant hypersensitivity. Recently, several cases have been linked to concurrent infection with human herpesvirus-6, EBV or CMV infections. Severe allopurinol hypersensitivity skin and liver reactions have been closely linked to HLA B*58:01 particularly in Asian populations but also to a lesser extend in Caucasians and African Americans, in whom there are also associations HLA-B*53:01 and A*34.02. These HLA associations are less common in cases of allopurinol liver injury without DRESS syndrome or SJS/TEN. Outcome and Management While most cases of acute liver injury attributed to allopurinol are self-limited and start to resolve within 7 to 10 days of stopping the medication, other cases are protracted, severe and even fatal. Instances of chronic vanishing bile duct syndrome due to allopurinol have been reported. Because of the accompanying allergic manifestations, corticosteroids are often used and usually result in prompt improvements in fever and rash, but their efficacy in ameliorating the liver injury is unproven. Relapse with early discontinuation of corticosteroids is common. Allopurinol 5 There is no known cross reactivity of hypersensitivity to allopurinol with similar reactions to other medications, including the anticonvulsants. Drug Class: Antigout Agents CASE REPORTS Case 1. DRESS syndrome accompanied by acute liver failure due to allopurinol.(1) A 58 year old woman with diabetes, hypertension, gastric ulcer and gouty arthritis with hyperuricemia and mild
