NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver, syndrome, rash, drug, patients, fever, cases, developed, year, hypersensitivity, injury


REPORTS Case 1. DRESS syndrome accompanied by acute liver failure due to allopurinol.(1) A 58 year old woman with diabetes, hypertension, gastric ulcer and gouty arthritis with hyperuricemia and mild renal insufficiency was started on allopurinol (300 mg daily) and developed fever and rash 17 days later. She had undergone resection of a parathyroid adenoma under enflurane anesthesia shortly after starting allopurinol, but she recovered uneventfully and was sent home on doxycycline, in addition to her usual medications including glibenclamide, indomethacin and cimetidine. One week later, she developed fever, fatigue and rash which became generalized and exfoliative. Allopurinol was stopped and she was admitted for observation. She was o markedly febrile (39 C) and had a generalized erythematous rash. Blood testing showed leukocytosis and eosinophilia. Liver tests, which were previously normal, were mildly elevated on admission, but over the next few days worsened with onset of jaundice (Table). Tests for hepatitis A and B were negative. She subsequently developed progressive prolongation of the prothrombin time followed by confusion, encephalopathy and ascites. Corticosteroids were started. She developed gram negative sepsis followed by multiorgan failure and died. Postmortem liver biopsy showed marked centrilobular necrosis, cholestasis, inflammation and small islands of regenerating hepatocytes. Key Points Medication: Allopurinol (300 mg daily) Pattern: Mixed (R=2.2) Severity: 5+ (death from hepatic failure) Latency: 3 weeks Recovery: None Other medications: Glibenclamide, indomethacin, and cimetidine chronically. Enflurane 2 weeks before onset, doxycycline for the 6 days before onset. Laboratory Values Time After Time After ALT Alk P Bilirubin Other Starting Stopping (U/L) (U/L) (mg/dL) Allopurinol started (300 mg daily) for gout 4 days 25 100 0.5 Preoperative testing 17 days 0 110 120 0.5 Admission: rash and fever 4 weeks 11 days 1240 1240 12.0 Prothrombin time 9 sec prolonged 6 weeks 25 days 65 390 30.0 Ascites, coma and sepsis Normal Values <40 <95 <1.2 Comment This patient developed typical allopurinol hypersensitivity syndrome 3 weeks after starting therapy. Risk factors included preexisting renal insufficiency. Several days after being admitted for rash and fever, she developed 6 LiverTox jaundice and had subsequent worsening with development of hepatic failure. This syndrome is also referred to as DRESS (drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) and is usually rapidly reversible with stopping the medication. However, the hypersensitivity reaction can be severe and result in death from acute liver failure or from complications of generalized skin rash (toxic epidermal necrolysis) or
