NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: allopurinol, pmid, pubmed, pubmed pmid, liver, syndrome, rash, drug, patients, fever, cases, developed, year, hypersensitivity, injury


with stopping the medication. However, the hypersensitivity reaction can be severe and result in death from acute liver failure or from complications of generalized skin rash (toxic epidermal necrolysis) or renal disease. Corticosteroid therapy is often given and usually results in rapid disappearance of fever and improvement in rash, but relapse with stopping corticosteroids is common and this therapy is of unproven benefit for the hepatic injury and can complicate management of acute liver failure. Severe cutaneous reactions to allopurinol have been linked to HLA B*58:01 and cases of hepatotoxicity with allergic manifestations and skin rash are likely to have a similar linkage. Case 2. DRESS syndrome and mixed hepatitis due to allopurinol.(2) A 61 year old African American woman with diabetes, hypertension, chronic congestive heart failure, obesity, chronic renal dysfunction, and asthma was started on gradually increasing doses of allopurinol for gout. Approximately 11 weeks later, she developed fatigue, followed by rash, fever and facial swelling. She had no history of liver disease or risk factors for viral hepatitis and did not drink alcohol. Her other medications included metformin, amlodipine, metoprolol, clonidine, furosemide, iron, fluticasone with salmeterol, warfarin o and aspirin, all of which she had been taking for several years. On examination, she had fever to 39.2 C and a diffuse maculopapular rash. Blood testing showed leukocytosis and eosinophilia and worsening of her chronic renal dysfunction. A skin biopsy showed vacuolar interface dermatitis and eosinophils consistent with a drug reaction. Initially, liver tests were normal or only minimally elevated with bilirubin 0.3 mg/dL, ALT 89 U/L and Alk P 102. Despite stopping allopurinol promptly, however, her liver tests worsened over the ensuing week, with bilirubin rising to 7.7 mg/dL, ALT to 414 U/L and Alk P to 243 U/L. Tests for hepatitis A, B, C and E, Epstein Barr virus and cytomegalovirus infection were negative as were ANA, SMA, and AMA. Abdominal ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging showed no evidence of gallstones or biliary dilation. She was treated with prednisone and her fever and rash improved but bilirubin worsened. A liver biopsy showed bland cholestasis, minimal inflammation, no duct loss, and no fat or fibrosis. Serum bilirubin rose to a peak of 23.7 mg/dL and INR to 1.7 and she developed worsening renal function. Serum bilirubin levels remained above 16 mg/dL and she developed pneumonia followed by progressive multiorgan failure and died 8 weeks after initial presentation. Key
