&
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, therapy, pain, patients, group, symptoms, total, sum, chronic prostatitis, signifi, pelvic, treatment, change, prostate


MANAGEMENT OF CHRONIC NONBACTERIAL PROSTATITIS/CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME Benjamin Kulovac*, Damir Aganović, Alden Prcić, Osman Hadžiosmanović   Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina * Corresponding author Abstract Chronic nonbacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome is unsatisfactorily defi ned and insuffi ciently studied illness. Also, the treatment success is questionable and there- fore, this illness is a therapeutical problem for urologists – which medications are the best choice in treating this uncomfortable condition? Th is paper presents results of prospective, open, analytical, comparative study that was performed on  patients with diagnosed chronic nonbacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome. Patients were divided into three groups and were treated with two medi- cations ciprofl oxacin (C), doxazosin (D) and combination of ciprofl oxacin + doxazosin (C+D). Th e eff ects were measured using symptom questionnaire for prostate illnesses of ranging from  to  was calculated for each patient. Th is number is called total sum NIH-CPSI (National Institutes of Health Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index) of the ques- tionnaire, which generates the questions from  to . Th e most signifi cant change occurred in C+D group where the total sum changed from - in the beginning to - at the end of the treatment (, (p<,)). Signifi cant changes were also found in D group where the change was ,  (p<,). At the end of the treatment no signifi cant change was registered in C group (p<,): p<, – signifi - cance threshold. Combination of ciprofl oxacin + doxazosin proved to be the best choice for treatment. KEY WORDS: chronic nonbacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome, therapy  BOSNIAN JOURNAL OF BASIC MEDICAL SCIENCES 2007; 7 (3): 245-249 BENJAMIN KULOVAC ET AL.: MANAGEMENT OF CHRONIC NONBACTERIAL PROSTATITIS/CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME Introduction consider the therapy for a period less then  days insuf- fi cient and suggest that those patients often suff er from Chronic prostatitis is an illness that usually develops in recurrent infections. Long-term treatment is necessary men  to  of age and represents major health issue because the very cause of illness is located in isolated mi- worldwide (, ). Prevalence of prostatitis increases with cro colonies that are well protected from antibiotics (). age and it reaches the highest value at the age of  to Doxazosin is selective alpha  blocker with minimal  - .. Its lowest value is at the age of  – . (). blocking
