&
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, therapy, pain, patients, group, symptoms, total, sum, chronic prostatitis, signifi, pelvic, treatment, change, prostate


at the age of  to Doxazosin is selective alpha  blocker with minimal  - .. Its lowest value is at the age of  – . (). blocking effect on alpha  receptors. It is clinically Th e illness itself is unsatisfactorily defi ned and insuffi - proven that alpha  blockers improve the symptoms ciently studied. Subjectively, the illness is very uncom- and urodynamic characteristics in terms of improving fortable for the patient. Success of the treatment is also urine fl ow and reducing dynamic obstruction. It is be- questionable and that makes this illness therapeutical lieved that they infl uence smooth musculature of the problem for urologists. Although, at the first glance, prostate and bladder by blocking alpha-adrenergic re- this illness doesn’t appear to be causing loss in working ceptors, resulting in decrease of urethral pressure and ability, in some cases it is a social problem and despite improvement in bladder discharge. Partially mediated of its benignity it eff ects the psychical constitution of eff ect is trough spinal alpha-adrenergic receptors (). the patient (, ). Patients loose interest in work and Material and Methods sex, have low self-esteem and sometimes show signs of severe neurasthenia. On the other hand, complexity the importance of chronic prostatitis as medical and study was done on a sample of  patients diagnosed billion dollars is spent on prostatitis treatments annu- January – November . Diagnostics and categoriza- ally, which means that chronic prostatitis presents a tion of chronic nonbacterial prostatitis is based on the great socio-economical problem (,). Patients visit following analysis: SE, blood count, blood sugar level, their doctors because of the pain in their lower urinary BUN, creatinine, urine, urethral smear, ejaculate cul- tract, impaired life quality, sleeping problems, pain ture, urine cultures x , microbiological examination of and discomfort in the pelvic region. Researches that prostate discharge (done by digitorectal examination were done to help the patients resulted from verify- of prostate), trans-abdominal ultrasound examination ing symptom questionnaire for prostate illnesses (NI- of prostate with determining residual urine, urofl owm- HCP symptom questionnaire – National Institute for etry with determination of the shape of urofl ow curve Health Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index)  (). and completion of NIH-CPSI questionnaire indepen- dently or with the physicians assistance. The treat- Furthermore, diagnosis of chronic prostatitis is usu- ment eff ect was measured by the mentioned question- ally the
