&
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, therapy, pain, patients, group, symptoms, total, sum, chronic prostatitis, signifi, pelvic, treatment, change, prostate


of NIH-CPSI questionnaire indepen- dently or with the physicians assistance. The treat- Furthermore, diagnosis of chronic prostatitis is usu- ment eff ect was measured by the mentioned question- ally the wrong one in urological practice. Th erefore, it naires, which were fi lled by the patients following the is necessary to adopt categorization of prostatitis based completion of the treatment. Patient list was made for on planed diagnostic procedures. It is an imperative all the patients in whom all the results were included. in order to determine an adequate therapy approach Pain intensity was monitored by VAPS pain scale (vi- and a successful treatment. Th ere are diff erent therapy sual analogue pain scale) during the last seven days trends in treating this condition. New trends in treating and was presented in numbers on a scale from  to . this chronic urological condition (combination of qui- Th e criteria for exclusion from the study were: urinary nolones antibiotics and postsynapthic alpha  blockers) infection, indication of prostate cancer, acute prostati- are successful in a relatively short period of time (). tis, urethral disease, calculosis of the lower urinary tract, identifi ed allergy to one of the medications, diagnosed Quinolones /ciprofl oxacin/ is, currently, the medication psychiatric disorder, diabetes, BUN and creatinine of choice in treating chronic nonbacterial prostatitis. level in their blood, consumption of medications that Th ey easily penetrate into prostate, in stroma and in the interfere with the act of voiding. Patients were distrib- prostate secretion as well (). As amphoteric medica- uted in the three therapy groups at random. D+C, C tions, they have two dissociation constants, one in acid and D group were treated for a period of  days. Dox- and the other in basic pH. Standard therapy includes con- azosin was taken before retiring to bed in  mg tablets tinuous dosage of x mg for  days. Many authors while ciprofloxacin was taken in  doses of mg.  BOSNIAN JOURNAL OF BASIC MEDICAL SCIENCES 2007; 7 (3): 245-249 BENJAMIN KULOVAC ET AL.: MANAGEMENT OF CHRONIC NONBACTERIAL PROSTATITIS/CHRONIC PELVIC PAIN SYNDROME Discussion In statistical data processing the following tests relation index, exact test of probability by Fisher. Therapy of chronic non-bacterial prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome should be established on the un- derstanding of pathology and pathogenetic mechanisms, Results which lead to prostatitis, and pharmacological charac- teristics of therapeutic agents. Also, chronic prostatitis
