&
KEYWORDS: chronic, prostatitis, therapy, pain, patients, group, symptoms, total, sum, chronic prostatitis, signifi, pelvic, treatment, change, prostate


and feeling of dis- infl uence usual daily activities, and questions on how comfort in top of the penis independent of urination act they feel about spending the rest of their life with those were uncommon.  (, ) of the patients expressed symptoms. Considering how the disease symptoms af- feeling pain or discomfort in pubic region or in blad- fect the quality of life, care should be taken that these der region, while  (, ) of them had pain in top patients, men with chronic prostatitis, are inclined to of the penis independent of urination act. Intensity of change personality structure, and that they often exag- pain ranged from  to , with median , , at the end of gerate in disclosure of their subjective discomfort, and treatment intensity of pain or discomfort was in range that questionnaire report about personal diffi culty’s is of  to  with median ,. After the therapy, in groups proportional to symptoms that diffi culties provoke. Th e C and C+D there was statistically signifi cant diff erence most frequent answer to the question about the disrup- in pain intensity before and after therapy (p<, ). tion in performance of usual daily activities were „cer- Urinary symptoms are related to patient’s subjective tain level“ and „a lot“, while only one patient answered feeling regarding urine discharge from urinary bladder, that he did not have any problems in performing usual and the frequency of less-than-two-hours interval be- daily activities. After the therapy no statistical changes tween two urinations. Most of the patients in the three were found in either group!!! Th e eff ect of prostatitis on examined groups felt incomplete urine discharge, in ap- the quality of life is multifactorial and Boehminghausis proximately half of the total number of urinations, while claim that once acquired prostatitis persists throughout small number of patients did not report that symptom. the life is not far away from the truth. From previously After the therapy completion, signifi cant change was mentioned statistical data it is clear that patients are found in groups D and C+D (p<,). Need for fre- burdened with their disease and in spite of its benign quent subsequent urination is discomfort that accom- nature, disease undermines patients’ psychical constitu- panies chronic prostatitis. In the examined groups D tion. Th is study showed that even the best therapeutic and C+D there was
