Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


Guidelines Guidelines for the investigation of chronic diarrhoea in adults: British Society of Gastroenterology, 3rd edition Ramesh P Arasaradnam,1,2,3 Steven Brown,4 Alastair Forbes,5 Mark R Fox,6,7 Pali Hungin,8 Lawrence Kelman,9 Giles Major,10 Michelle O’Connor,9 Dave S Sanders,4 Rakesh Sinha,11 Stephen Charles Smith,12 Paul Thomas,13 Julian R F Walters14 ► Additional material is AbstrAct of Radiology, Primary Care Society for Gastroen- please visit the journal online guidance on investigations is required. This is an Each main section was authored by a designated ( x. doi. org/ 10. 1136/ gutjnl-2 017- 315909). updated guideline from 2003 for the investigations of member of the GDG following a comprehensive For numbered affiliations see and Standards Committee of the British Society of and European guidelines. This involved a review of end of article. Gastroenterology (BSG). This document has undergone electronic databases (Medline and PubMed) using significant revision in content through input by 13 keywords (in both British and American spelling) correspondence to Professor Ramesh members of the Guideline Development Group (GDG) such as ((((‘diarrhoea-predominant irritable bowel Hospitals Coventry & recommendations. ‘faecal incontinence’ OR ‘stool frequency’) AND Warwickshire, Coventry, CV2 ((diarrhoea[Title/Abstract]) AND (investigation 2DX, UK; r. arasaradnam@ warwick. ac. uk OR investigate OR diagnostic OR diagnosis) AND "2000’(Publication Date): ‘3000’(Publication Date)) These guidelines deal with clinical assessment in Received 21 December 2017 AND English(Language)) NOT case reports (Publi- Revised 28 February 2018 primary and secondary care of a patient with diar- cation Type))). Additional terms related to the Accepted 11 March 2018 rhoea, the exclusion of cancer or inflammation, and 13 April 2018 disease, bile acid diarrhoea or malabsorption and rhoea, microscopic colitis, lactose malabsorption or small bowel bacterial overgrowth). The time frame post radiation diarrhoea, together with rarer causes for literature review was from 2002 to April 2017. of malabsorption and surgical disorders as outlined A total of 1292 key papers and relevant abstracts in figure 1. Options for therapy are not dealt with as in English in peer-reviewed journals were identi- it is beyond the remit of this guideline, nor has the fied and read, and relevant work has been cited and cost effectiveness of investigations been addressed referenced. An initial draft document was produced due to paucity of available evidence. and subsequently reviewed and modified in accor- dance with the AGREE tool.1 Two face-to-face 1 PrefAce meetings as well as a further two telephone meet- 1.1 Purpose of guidelines ings were held in
