Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


and modified in accor- dance with the AGREE tool.1 Two face-to-face 1 PrefAce meetings as well as a further two telephone meet- 1.1 Purpose of guidelines ings were held in preparing this guideline. We used The guidelines are directed at consultant gastro- a modified Delphi system to a maximum of three registrars in training and general practitioners, and was made once agreement was reached by 70% refer specifically to adult not paediatric gastroenter- of the group. The lead author acted as facilitator. ology. Their purpose is to provide guidance on the The review was undertaken through submission best available methods of investigating symptoms of to members of the BSG Clinical Standards Service chronic diarrhoea. Given this broad symptom-based Committee as well as to BSG Council and finally focus, the guidelines cover a wide range of gastro- international peer review. enterological conditions and are not intended as a comprehensive review of all aspects of the clinical 1.3 Grading of recommendations conditions mentioned herein, but rather an attempt In accordance with the BSG advice on produc- to rationalise the approach to investigation in the tion of guidelines, the GDG applied the GRADE moderate or weak. Where the recommendation 1.2 Development of guidelines and rigour was unanimous a ‘strong’ recommendation was The guidelines were prepared following a compre- used, and where the decision was by majority and hensive literature search by the guideline devel- the recommendation was moderate or weak, ‘we opment group (GDG). The GDG membership suggest’ was used. We graded the evidence based on to cite: Arasaradnam RP, comprises elected members of the BSG, Association levels 1–5 as per the Oxford Centre for Evidence Brown S, Forbes A, et al. Gut of Coloproctology of Great Britain and Ireland, Based Medicine.3 In brief, Level 1a–c ranges from 1380 Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: Guidelines figure 1 Algorithm for the investigation of chronic diarrhoea based on clinical differential diagnosis. randomised controlled trials (RCTs); Level 2a–c ranges from 4 are poor quality cohort or case series; and Level 5 is expert systematic reviews of cohort studies, low quality RCTs and opinion without critical appraisal. outcomes research; Level 3a–b ranges from systematic reviews Specific RCTs addressing the investigation of ‘chronic diar- with heterogeneity and individual case control studies; Level rhoea’ are absent. Thus our grading of evidence was based on Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: 1381 Guidelines summary of all recommendations
