Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


than 4 weeks suggest a non-infectious aetiology and merit tion (strong, moderate or weak). further investigation.8 A recent report suggests that both increased frequency and altered consistency is indicative of organic aetiology.9 Thus 1.4 scheduled review of guidelines a pragmatic definition incorporates these elements: chronic These guidelines will be subject to future revisions within 5 years diarrhoea is the persistent alteration from the norm with stool to take into account new developments and alternative investi- consistency between types 5 and 7 on the Bristol stool chart and gative methods. increased frequency greater than 4 weeks' duration. 2.2 Prevalence 1.5 Possible audit goals Chronic diarrhoea is one of the most common reasons for The aim of these guidelines was to establish an optimal inves- referral to a gastroenterology clinic. Prevalence rates in Western tigative scheme for patients presenting with chronic diarrhoea populations are difficult to estimate, partly through popula- that would maximise a positive diagnosis while minimising the tion differences but also through difficulties in definition. In number and invasiveness of investigations. These two poten- two population surveys, Talley et al reported a prevalence of tially opposing directives are influenced by the potential seri- ‘chronic diarrhoea’ of between 7% and 14% in an elderly popu- ousness of the diagnostic outcome. Thus a low threshold for the lation, a proportion of which is likely to include patients with use of colonoscopy is acceptable in the context of the frequency motility disorders (ie, ‘functional bowel disease’). Using a defini- and clinical significance of colonic neoplasia in older subjects. tion based on excessive stool frequency without the presence of However, there is less need for extensive investigation where the abdominal pain, estimates of the prevalence of chronic diarrhoea probability of benign disease is high (eg, in young patients with functional symptoms).4 Suggested goals for future audit include: in a Western population are 4–5%.10 1. All patients undergoing colonoscopy for chronic diarrhoea should undergo biopsies of the right and left colon for histo- 2.3 Difficulties in establishing guidelines for the investigation logical examination. of chronic diarrhoea 2. Reduction of missed diagnoses of colorectal cancer to <1% Reported change in stool frequency or form is characteristic of through utility of faecal immunochemical testing (FIT) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and indeed forms part of the defi- endoscopic examination. nition of the condition, which relies on symptom-based criteria 3. Minimising inappropriate first-line investigations (eg, colo- and negative
