Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


bowel syndrome (IBS) and indeed forms part of the defi- endoscopic examination. nition of the condition, which relies on symptom-based criteria 3. Minimising inappropriate first-line investigations (eg, colo- and negative physical examination.11 12Although stool weight noscopy) in patients less than 40 years of age without rectal does not usually increase in IBS, as symptom reporting forms the bleeding and normal faecal calprotectin. basis for the diagnosis and stool weight is rarely performed early 4. Initial non-invasive investigations, including coeliac serology, in the course of investigation, considerable overlap between faecal calprotectin and possibly FIT, should be completed in functional bowel disease and true ‘diarrhoea’ occurs. As IBS 5. All patients with persistent undiagnosed chronic diarrhoea potential for inappropriate investigation of patients reporting should be investigated for bile acid diarrhoea with SeHCAT diarrhoeal symptoms. Conversely, new onset of diarrhoea may or serum 7-alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one or faecal bile reflect serious organic disease such as colonic neoplasia. It is this acid measurement where available. wide diagnostic potential given similar reported symptoms that makes the introduction of specific guidelines difficult. 2 IntroDuctIon The broad range of conditions which lead to diarrhoea also 2.1 Definition make it difficult to be too prescriptive with regard to the inves- Diarrhoea may be defined in terms of stool frequency, consis- tigative pathways that should be adopted. Diarrhoea may result tency, volume or weight. Patients’ concept of diarrhoea often from: (a) colonic neoplasia; (b) inflammation; (c) small bowel focuses around stool consistency.5 Indeed, faecal consistency is inflammation; (d) small bowel malabsorption; (e) maldigestion determined by the water-holding capacity of the stool (ie, the due to pancreatic insufficiency; or (f) motility disorders, and it the concept of diarrhoea. However, quantification of this in clin- decision on whether to focus investigations on any one of these chart is recommended—type 5 and above (see online supple- as will be discussed, the prevalence and potential seriousness mentary material).6 of certain conditions (eg, colonic neoplasia) necessitates their In the past, stool weights were used (≥200 g/day), but this can exclusion early in the investigative scheme. be misleading as stool weights vary greatly and ‘normal’ stool A further problem in the development of these guidelines volumes can exceed this value, particularly when non-Western has been the large number of investigative methods reported, diets are encountered. Hence stool weights are not recom- particularly with regard to malabsorption. This reflects the mended as a measure of diarrhoea. failure of
