Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


number of investigative methods reported, diets are encountered. Hence stool weights are not recom- particularly with regard to malabsorption. This reflects the mended as a measure of diarrhoea. failure of any single test to become established as the standard Further potential for confusion arises from the discrepancy and, indeed, many of the available methods have not found a between the medical and ‘lay’ concepts of diarrhoea, and this wide acceptance because of inadequate sensitivity, specificity needs to be clarified at the initial appraisal. Faecal incontinence or ease of use. Moreover, there is considerable variation in in particular is commonly misinterpreted as diarrhoea,7 while protocols and analytical methods between laboratories that symptoms relating to functional bowel disease can be difficult to leads to poor reproducibility of results.15 It is also unclear distinguish from organic pathology on the basis of history alone. what place some of these tests (some of which were devised There is no consensus on the duration of symptoms that prior to the advent of endoscopy) hold in the current inves- define chronic as opposed to acute diarrhoea. However, most tigative scheme that incorporates access to small bowel and groups including this GDG accept that symptoms persisting for colonic histology. To circumvent this somewhat, we propose Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: 1383 Guidelines in figure 1 an outline algorithm for the investigation of continuous (as opposed to intermittent) diarrhoea and significant This will be used to guide the text in this document. symptoms such as those defined in the Rome IV criteria (improved suggestive of a functional bowel disturbance, but only with a spec- 3 PrIMAry clInIcAl AssessMent ificity of approximately 52–74%.19 Unfortunately, these criteria The initial assessment of patients with chronic diarrhoea can be mostly carried out in the primary care setting. The impor- scopic colitis or bile acid diarrhoea, all of which are relatively tance of careful history taking and examination cannot be common and treatable with specific approaches.20 overemphasised. Malabsorption is often accompanied by steatorrhoea and the passage of bulky malodorous pale stools. However, milder forms 3.1 Initial presentation in primary care of malabsorption may not result in any reported stool abnor- In most countries where there is a split primary/secondary care mality. Colonic, inflammatory or secretory forms of diarrhoea system, the first consultation is with the primary care physi- typically present with liquid loose stools with blood or mucous cian. Around 10% of
