Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


inflammatory or secretory forms of diarrhoea system, the first consultation is with the primary care physi- typically present with liquid loose stools with blood or mucous cian. Around 10% of all consultations in primary care are for discharge. gastroenterological problems, of which half are for lower gastro- Specific risk factors which increase the likelihood of organic intestinal (GI) problems.16 Most of these are for self-limiting diarrhoea or point to potential lines of investigation should be symptoms or for functional GI disorders and only a very small sought (see box 1). These include: proportion comprise chronic or persistent diarrhoea. Based on 1. Family history: particularly of neoplastic, inflammatory bow- the accepted definition of chronic diarrhoea being abnormal el or coeliac disease. passage of ≥3 loose stools per day for more than 4 weeks and 2. Previous surgery: extensive resections of the ileum and right colon lead to diarrhoea due to lack of absorptive surface and average list size of 1700 patients may have 50–85 such patients hence fat and carbohydrate malabsorption, decreased transit each year. Only a proportion of these will consult, with many time or changes in the bile acid pool including malabsorp- managing with self- or pharmacy-based treatments, while others tion.21 Bacterial overgrowth can often be a problem in this will be managed within primary care, often with antidiarrhoeals. situation, particularly in bypass operations such as in gastric No data are available on the proportion referred to secondary surgery and jejunoileal bypass procedures for morbid obesi- care, but these are likely to be a small minority of the total ty. Shorter resections of the terminal ileum can lead to bile number of people with chronic diarrhoea in the community. acid diarrhoea, which typically occurs after meals and usually First-line investigations are normally performed within primary responds to fasting and bile acid sequestrants (see sections 5 care and patients may be referred if their condition causes inter- and 6). ference with normal activities or a compromise of quality of life Chronic diarrhoea may also occur in up to 10% patients after sufficient to warrant further action. As with other conditions, cholecystectomy through mechanisms that include increased many patients merely adapt their lives to their symptoms. No gut transit, bile acid diarrhoea, and increased enterohepatic formal primary care referral guidelines or recommendations cycling of bile acids.22 exist for patients with chronic diarrhoea, but the presence of 3. Previous pancreatic disease. normal
