Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


diarrhoea, and increased enterohepatic formal primary care referral guidelines or recommendations cycling of bile acids.22 exist for patients with chronic diarrhoea, but the presence of 3. Previous pancreatic disease. normal first-line investigations with symptoms severe enough to 4. Systemic disease: thyrotoxicosis and hypoparathyroid dis- impair quality of life and not responding to treatment constitutes ease, diabetes mellitus,23 adrenal disease or systemic sclerosis a rationale for referral. may predispose to diarrhoea through various mechanisms The impact of the symptoms of chronic diarrhoea and the including endocrine effects, autonomic dysfunction, small differential diagnoses that need to be considered are clearly bowel bacterial overgrowth or the use of concomitant drug different in individual patients. A patient with recent change in therapy. bowel habit to include diarrhoea over 6 weeks is likely to need 5. Alcohol: diarrhoea is common in alcohol abuse. Mechanisms a different approach compared with another patient who has include direct toxic effect on intestinal epithelium, rapid gut suffered from intermittent watery diarrhoea which has been transit, decreased activity of intestinal disaccharidases and present for over 5 years. Blood, stool (if an infectious aetiology decreased pancreatic function.24 or if an inflammatory component is suspected) and serological 6. Diet: excessive intake of caffeine (eg, coffee, energy drinks), tests (for coeliac disease, hyperthyroidism and anaemia) should milk in patients with lactase deficiency, food additives (eg, be performed in primary care as an initial assessment. Equally, sorbitol), fructose and other FODMAPs (fermentable oligo-, if alarm features (such as unexplained change in bowel habit, di-, mono-saccharides and polyols) should be sought (see sec- persistent blood in the stool and unintentional weight loss) tion 5.3). are detected, then referral for further investigations should be 7. Drugs: up to 4% of cases of chronic diarrhoea may be due initiated. to medications (particularly magnesium supplements, anti- hypertensives (eg, ACE inhibitors) and non-steroidal anti-in- 3.2 History and examination: secondary care assessment flammatory drugs, newer gliptins (dipeptidyl peptidase-4 A detailed history is essential in the assessment of patients inhibitor), theophyllines, antibiotics, antiarrhythmics and with chronic diarrhoea. This should attempt (a) to establish antineoplastic agents).25 the likelihood that the symptoms are organic (as opposed to 8. Recent overseas travel or other potential sources of infec- functional) based on presence of ‘alarm features’ as outlined tious gastrointestinal pathogens. above; (b) to distinguish malabsorptive from colonic/inflam- 9. Recent antibiotic therapy and Clostridium difficile infec- matory forms of diarrhoea; and (c) to assess for
