Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


features’ as outlined tious gastrointestinal pathogens. above; (b) to distinguish malabsorptive from colonic/inflam- 9. Recent antibiotic therapy and Clostridium difficile infec- matory forms of diarrhoea; and (c) to assess for specific causes tion: many different tests are now available for the detection Symptoms suggestive of an organic disease include a history of enzyme immunoassay for C. difficile toxin (details in section diarrhoea of <3 months’ duration, predominantly nocturnal or 3.3.3). 1384 Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: Guidelines urea and electrolytes, liver function tests, vitamin B12, folate, box 1 causes of chronic diarrhoea calcium, ferritin, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C reactive protein. Thyroid function tests should also be performed at this common stage with a suppressed thyroid-stimulating hormone being the ► IBS-diarrhoea best predictor for hyperthyroidism. ► Bile acid diarrhoea ► Diet 3.3.2 Serological tests for coeliac disease – FODMAP malabsorption – Lactase deficiency is highly prevalent in non-Caucasian Coeliac disease is defined as a state of heightened immunological ethnic groups responsiveness to ingested gluten in genetically susceptible indi- – Artificial sweeteners (eg, sorbitol, xylol in chewing gum, viduals.29 Epidemiological studies screening cohorts of healthy soft drinks) adult volunteers in the USA, UK and other European countries – Caffeine (eg, coffee, coke, energy drinks) consistently report a prevalence of 0.5–1%.30–32 There is some – Excess alcohol evidence that the prevalence is increasing,33–35 and despite being – Excess liquorice a common global phenomenon, diagnosis is often delayed.36 37 ► Colonic neoplasia The development of highly accurate serological tests and large ► Inflammatory bowel disease epidemiological studies have contributed to our current under- – Ulcerative colitis standing of coeliac disease. It is now recognised that the majority – Crohn’s disease of patients may have more subtle presenting symptoms, adult – Microscopic colitis presentations are more frequent than paediatric, and there is a ► Coeliac disease ‘pre-coeliac’ state.32 38 39 ► Drugs Recognition of the coeliac iceberg has improved under- – Antibiotics, in particular macrolides (eg, erythromycin) standing and detection of coeliac disease.37 The visible iceberg – Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs above the waterline depicts patients with typical GI symptoms – Magnesium-containing products such as diarrhoea and weight loss. The subsequent stratum just – Hypoglycaemic agents (eg, metformin, gliptins) below the waterline represents patients considered to have atyp- – Antineoplastic agents ical presentations. They may have vague, non-specific GI symp- – Others (eg, furosemide, Olestra) toms such as bloating, or conditions associated with
