Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


investigations disease accounts for 6.4–7% of cases of patients presenting with 3.3.1 Blood tests coeliac disease.48 53 Abnormal initial screening investigations such as a high eryth- rocyte sedimentation rate, anaemia or low albumin have a high specificity for the presence of organic disease.26 The presence of 3.3.3 Immunodeficiency and infections iron deficiency is a sensitive indicator of small bowel enteropathy, Immunodeficiency states complicate diagnosing the cause of diar- particularly coeliac disease,27 but is obviously not a specific test. rhoea. The first step is to identify the immunodeficiency. Beyond Guidelines regarding the approach to a patient with iron defi- the common primary and haematological causes, clinicians cient anaemia have previously been published.28 A basic screen should be aware that chronic diarrhoea is a common symptom in for evidence of malabsorption should include full blood count, patients newly diagnosed with human immunodeficiency virus Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: 1385 Guidelines (HIV).54 Clinicians should be aware of HIV prevalence estimates 4 cAncer or InflAMMAtIon in their region and test accordingly. Once an immunodeficiency 4.1 stool tests has been identified, potential chronic infection with pathogens The Bristol stool chart (see online supplementary material), such as cryptosporidia or norovirus should be investigated. which is validated, is a good tool to determine stool consistency Chronic diarrhoea due to infectious agents is unusual in and guide subsequent investigations.65 Stool weights are no giardiasis and amoebiasis, are most likely to result in chronic infections. Examination of three fresh stools for ova, cysts and 4.1.1 Faecal calprotectin parasites remains the mainstay of diagnosis and has a sensitivity The inflammatory marker faecal calprotectin has recently been of approximately 60–90% for detection of these organisms. If shown to be of value and the subject of a NICE Diagnostic there is doubt about persisting Giardia infection, then the use of Guideline (DG11).66 Calprotectin is released when inflamma- a stool ELISA (92% sensitivity and 98% specificity) has largely tory processes occur due to the degranulation of neutrophil replaced the need for intestinal biopsies and wet (saline and iodine granulocytes. When the inflammation is within the intestinal mount) preparations.55–58 Short course treatment with metroni- tract, calprotectin is released into the intestinal lumen and is dazole or tinidazole is effective.58 Serological testing (indirect stable enough to be measured in faeces. NICE recommends the haemagglutination test or ELISA) can be a useful adjunct in cases use of faecal calprotectin as an option in the
