Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


stable enough to be measured in faeces. NICE recommends the haemagglutination test or ELISA) can be a useful adjunct in cases use of faecal calprotectin as an option in the differential diag- of amoebic liver abscess—more so in endemic areas.59 Clinicians nosis of IBS and IBD in adults with recent onset lower GI symp- should liaise with their local microbiology services to establish toms in whom cancer is not suspected. Thus patients with low the diagnostic methods used, which may include transition to calprotectin levels are unlikely to have any active inflammatory newer ELISA-based assays with greater sensitivity and specificity. processes at the time of sample collection, making a diagnosis A notable exception is Clostridium difficile infection where of IBD less likely.67 68 NICE uses the commonly quoted 50 μg/g diarrhoea can persist through failure of initial treatment or rapid faeces as the decision level above which IBD is more likely, relapse, which has consistently occurred in one in four patients although other causes of raised calprotectin include colorectal in the placebo arms of recent clinical trials.60–62 Identification cancer, infectious gastroenteritis and non-steroidal anti-inflam- of a wide variation in testing approaches across Europe has led matory drugs.69 This strategy should lead to a reduced level of to recommendations for a standardised two-stage approach.63 secondary care referrals with associated lower cost and morbidity. The first step identifies the presence of the organism with gluta- There is some evidence that calprotectin levels >250 μg/g faeces mate dehydrogenase enzyme immunoassay (EIA), nucleic acid suggest active inflammation correlating quite well with endo- amplification testing or PCR. The second stage looks to demon- scopic inflammation.67 70 The issue of indeterminate levels still strate active C. difficile toxin production through toxin EIA. remains elusive, although one study that looked at the 12-month Such a combination of a sensitive and then a specific test gives outcome of indeterminate faecal calprotectin levels (50–249 μg/g high negative and positive predictive values where tests agree. faeces) noted an 8% chance of developing IBD compared with tion will determine the need for treatment. The phenomenon online supplementary material. of post-infectious IBS after C. difficile infection is recognised,64 hence clinicians should be wary of excessive antimicrobial 4.1.2 Faecal occult blood test (FOBT)/faecal immunochemical therapy on the basis of PCR alone, especially in the absence of technique (FIT) clear evidence of toxin production. The detection of excess blood in faeces has been used
