Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


immunochemical therapy on the basis of PCR alone, especially in the absence of technique (FIT) clear evidence of toxin production. The detection of excess blood in faeces has been used for many years in the diagnosis of colorectal cancer. There are two types of faecal occult blood test: the older gFOBT based on the oxidi- recommendations sation of guaiac gum and the newer FIT for the detection of faecal haemoglobin, which uses an immunochemical technique ► We recommend an initial screening blood test (full blood to detect blood. Current European guidelines for colorectal count, ferritin, tissue transglutaminase/EMA and thyroid cancer screening72 recommend the use of faecal haemoglobin function test) as well as stool tests for inflammation (faecal and, although the UK still uses the older test, plans are well calprotectin) should be undertaken in primary care (Grade of advanced to change to faecal haemoglobin in both Scotland and evidence level 3, Strength of recommendation strong). England in 2018 for screening. Emerging studies indicate that, ► We recommend screening for coeliac disease using in those with lower GI symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer, serological tests (tissue transglutaminase or EMA), which FIT testing has a high negative predictive value (0.99) with the have a high sensitivity and specificity for the disease (Grade optimal cut-off between 7 and 10 μg/g faeces.73–75 With the of evidence level 1, Strength of recommendation strong). appropriate quality assurance processes in place and good clin- ► If IgA deficient, we recommend either IgG EMA or IgG TTG ical judgement, there is good evidence that using faecal haemo- should be performed (Grade of evidence level 2, Strength of globin in symptomatic patients may be of benefit in reducing the recommendation strong). burden of unnecessary colonoscopic examinations. For further ► HIV infection should be excluded in those who are details see online supplementary material. immunocompromised and present with chronic diarrhoea (Grade of evidence level 2, Strength of recommendation 4.2 endoscopic and histological assessment strong). In most patients with chronic diarrhoea, some form of endo- ► We recommend combination testing for Clostridium difficile scopic investigation will be necessary. In young patients (less infection; confirmation of the presence of the organism by than 40 years) reporting ‘diarrhoea’ but who have other typical glutamate dehydrogenase enzyme immnunoassay or PCR and symptoms of a functional bowel disorder and negative initial determining if these are toxin-producing (toxin EIA) (Grade of investigations, a diagnosis of IBS
