Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


glutamate dehydrogenase enzyme immnunoassay or PCR and symptoms of a functional bowel disorder and negative initial determining if these are toxin-producing (toxin EIA) (Grade of investigations, a diagnosis of IBS may be made in the primary evidence level 2, Strength of recommendation strong). care setting without recourse to further investigations.76 There 1386 Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: Guidelines is some evidence that using anti-vinculin and anti-cytolethal 4.3 small bowel imaging and visualisation for inflammation distending toxin B antibodies may help with making a positive 4.3.1 Small bowel imaging for abnormality (eg, inflammatory bowel diagnosis of IBS.77 However, patients under 40 years without disease) typical symptoms of functional bowel disorder and/or severe Traditionally the small bowel barium follow through (SBBFT) symptoms and documented diarrhoea (as previously defined) or barium enteroclysis was the standard means of assessing small should have further evaluation (see section 3.2.3). bowel mucosa. However, barium examinations have both a low sensitivity and specificity in the detection of small bowel 4.2.1 Colonoscopy abnormalities.89 Ultrasonography (USS) may be used to assess Screening colonoscopy in asymptomatic individuals detects the bowel, and the advantages include its non-invasiveness colonic adenomas in 14.4–37.5% of cases,57 but few studies have and availability. USS has been shown to have high sensitivity addressed the frequency of neoplasia in symptomatic patients, in the detection of terminal ileal pathology but its accuracy for and none has specifically addressed the prevalence of adenomas disease proximal to the terminal ileum is lower compared with in patients undergoing colonoscopy for diarrhoea. Neugut and CT and MRI.90–92 The significant disadvantages of USS include colleagues78 showed that, of 861 patients (with rectal bleeding), the difficulty of viewing the GI tract in its entirety and high oper- only 154 had a change in bowel habit of which 7% of these ator dependence.93–95 had colonic neoplasms. This would suggest that change in Cross-sectional modalities such as CT and MRI have emerged bowel habit is a poor guide to the prevalence of neoplasia unless as the preferred imaging tests for evaluation of the small bowel. advanced to the point of malignancy. Almost half had neoplasia Specialised small bowel imaging procedures such as CT and proximal to the splenic flexure, indicating the need for full colo- MR enterography and enteroclysis have become preferred, as noscopy rather than flexible sigmoidoscopy in these patients.78 79 comparative studies have shown their superiority compared with In addition to neoplasia, colonoscopy
