Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


in the Current evidence-based analysis indicates that either CT or outpatient setting to quickly assess the rectum and stool. This MR enterography (depending on availability) should be the remains an appropriate examination in those younger patients preferred initial test for the diagnosis of small intestinal abnor- who on clinical grounds are believed to have a functional bowel malities in patients with chronic diarrhoea. MRI is the preferred disorder. Some authors conclude that, in this age group, most option as it does not entail high-dose radiation compared with pathology occurs in the distal colon and is thus accessible with CT imaging.101 105 a flexible sigmoidoscope.8 80 In one study that examined the prevalence and anatomical distribution of colonic pathology in patients presenting with non-HIV-related chronic diarrhoea, 4.3.2 Video capsule endoscopy 15% of patients had colonic pathology.88 Some 99% of these Capsule endoscopy has a role either as a means to distinguish diagnoses could have been made from biopsies of the distal small bowel abnormalities or to assess further the small bowel colon using a flexible sigmoidoscope, the primary diagnoses after a negative radiological (MR or CT) investigation. However, being microscopic colitis, Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. in some centres this may be viewed as a first-line investigation Other sources point more strongly to the need for full colonos- of the small bowel due to its non-invasive nature (patient tolera- copy in chronic diarrhoea of uncertain aetiology.57–62 bility and acceptance) as well as increased diagnostic yield when compared by meta-analysis and systematic review against other 4.2.3 Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy small bowel investigations.106 There is little information on the diagnostic yield of upper GI When specifically considering coeliac disease, capsule endos- endoscopy in patients whose diarrhoea is suspected to be due to copy is not recommended and patients should be encouraged to malabsorption. This will clearly vary depending on the cohort of have a duodenal biopsy in order to obtain a histological diag- patients being investigated, referral criteria and degree of suspi- nosis. For patients who are unable or unwilling to undergo a cion for any given underlying diagnosis. Coeliac disease should gastroscopy, a small bowel capsule may help to demonstrate be considered and investigated as per section 3.3.2. villous atrophy in the presence of positive coeliac serology. Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: 1387 Guidelines 4.3.3 Enteroscopy (double balloon, single balloon or spiral) is complementary to Small bowel enteroscopy has been
