Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


presence of positive coeliac serology. Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: 1387 Guidelines 4.3.3 Enteroscopy (double balloon, single balloon or spiral) is complementary to Small bowel enteroscopy has been evaluated as a complementary capsule endoscopy and should be reserved for targeting lesions investigation to SBBFT and capsule endoscopy, either as a means (and obtaining histology) or therapeutic intervention when to distinguish small bowel abnormalities or to assess further abnormalities are identified by small bowel imaging or capsule the small bowel after a negative radiological investigation.107 endoscopy.106 A key feature of enteroscopy studies in assessing inflammation or obscure bleeding is the consistently high false negative rate of prior upper and lower endoscopy, emphasising the need to 5 coMMon DIsoDers ensure that adequate visualisation and biopsy of the duodenum 5.1 bile acid diarrhoea and ileum have been achieved. Push enteroscopy may have some Given that a third of patients labelled with diarrhoea-predomi- value to obtain jejunal biopsies in determining rare causes of nant IBS actually suffer from bile acid diarrhoea, this condition is diarrhoea—for example, cyclospora infections, sprue-related more common than initially perceived with a significant impact strongyloidosis or those with malabsorption/raised IgA TTG and on patients.109 110 Bile acids are required for the digestion of fat non-diagnostic duodenal biopsies.108 Device-assisted enteroscopy and are synthesised from cholesterol in the liver and excreted in the bile mainly in the form of glycine or taurine conjugates. This process is regulated through a negative feedback manner by nuclear farnesoid receptor as well as by fibroblast growth factor recommendations 19 (FGF-19),111 112 a protein released from ileal enterocytes. Up to 95% of bile acids are reabsorbed through the enterohepatic ► We recommend use of faecal calprotectin in younger circulation. patients (under 40 years) with chronic diarrhoea in whom 75SeHCAT testing (the standard radiolabelled test used to inflammation is suspected and not cancer (Grade of evidence identify bile acid diarrhoea: tauroselcholic (Se) acid) was first level 1, Strength of recommendation strong). described in 1982.113 114 A retention of 10–15% at 7 days is ► Cut-off of 50 μg/g faeces (assay-dependent) is recommended usually defined as mild bile acid loss, 5–10% as moderate and to distinguish functional bowel disorder from organic/ 0–5% as severely abnormal. These values also predict response inflammatory bowel disease (Grade of evidence level 1, to therapy with bile acid sequestrants.115 Strength of recommendation strong). The serum bile acid precursor 7α-hydroxy-4-cholesten- ► In patients
