Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


empirical therapy unless malabsorption.156 In contrast, there is no unique genotype no diagnostic test is available (Grade of evidence level 1, Strength of recommendation strong). linked with fructose or fructan malabsorption and a review of nine studies found that 25 g fructose may induce an increase in ► Patients with very low 75SeHCAT values are most likely to have a response to treatment with bile acid sequestrants. We breath hydrogen in 40% of healthy subjects, but rarely induces recommend this is tried if the 75SeHCAT value is <15% or the symptoms.153 Prospective studies have shown that self-re- fasting serum C4 is raised above defined laboratory values ported dietary intolerance is a poor predictor of objective test (Grade of evidence level 2, Strength of recommendation results158 159 or even response to dietary restriction. Thus, breath strong). testing after carbohydrate challenge could be useful if it identi- ► We recommend colonic biopsies to exclude microscopic fies the cause of symptoms and predicts response to therapy. A colitis. These should be at least from the left side (not rectal) positive lactose breath test fulfils these criteria,160 161 although and, as microscopic colitis can be patchy, right-side biopsies avoidance of dairy products alone is rarely sufficient treatment may improve diagnostic yield (Grade of evidence level 1, in patients with IBS.161 162 No trials have directly addressed Strength of recommendation strong). patients with isolated diarrhoea but, in diarrhoea-predominant ► Both glucose and lactulose hydrogen breath tests have poor IBS, two randomised controlled trials163 164 and one prospective sensitivity and specificity and are not recommended for the study165 have found no relationship between the result of breath diagnosis of small bowel bacterial overgrowth (Grade of testing and response to dietary fructose reduction. At present, evidence level 2, Strength of recommendation strong). fructose breath testing cannot be said to inform diagnosis and ► The utility of concurrent hydrogen and methane breath treatment of fructose intolerance. testing with measurements of orocaecal transit time could reduce a false positive diagnosis due to variability 5.4 Post radiation diarrhoea in intestinal transit, but has not been subject to definitive clinical study hence cannot be recommended (Grade of This is increasingly more common given that there is a three- evidence level 4, Strength of recommendation strong). fold rise in cancer survivors in the last three decades. Many of the causes of chronic diarrhoea discussed in other sections of ► We recommend investigating
