Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


Strength of recommendation strong). fold rise in cancer survivors in the last three decades. Many of the causes of chronic diarrhoea discussed in other sections of ► We recommend investigating for intestinal transit with manometry only if there is clinical suspicion and failure to these guidelines are common in people who have been treated respond to therapy (Grade of evidence level 4, Strength of for GI and other cancers (eg, bile acid diarrhoea, pancreatic recommendation strong). insufficiency). Specific guidance is now available as to how to 1390 Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: Guidelines Only patients who remain undiagnosed after extensive assays have been replaced by faecal elastase because of its greater traditional investigation and failed medical therapy should be stability and the improved sensitivity of the test. considered for manometry studies.171 In the future non-inva- Human elastase-1 is an anionic protease belonging to the sive MRI may find a role in the diagnosis of diarrhoeal condi- family of serine proteases along with other digestive enzymes tions. Recent studies have shown that this technique can provide such as chymotrypsin and trypsin. Its ability to degrade elastin comprehensive measurements of both motility and transit and is unique, but it is also stable in stool for up to a week at room can identify specific abnormalities in patients with diarrhoea-pre- temperature reaching concentrations 5–6 times higher than dominant IBS.172 duodenal juice. This stool test has emerged as a preferred test of pancreatic function and has largely replaced invasive and indi- rect pancreatic function tests in many centres. Normal values 6 tests for MAlAbsorPtIon are 200–500 μg/g, with 100–200 μg/g in mild to moderate Malabsorption may occur as a result of a defective luminal envi- insufficiency and <100 μg/g in severe insufficiency. The test is ronment such as inadequate bile acid or enzyme function, failure unaffected by simultaneous enzyme therapy or diet and requires of epithelial transport due to mucosal disease or structural disor- only a single 100 mg stool sample. Faecal elastase-1 has been ders (eg, fistula, surgical resection). Although there are generally well characterised as a sensitive biomarker for moderate to coexisting deficiencies of fat, carbohydrate, protein, vitamins severe pancreatic insufficiency with sensitivities of 73–100% and and minerals, the effects of one of these may predominate. Thus, specificities of 80–100%.180 181 However, faecal elastase is not pancreatic exocrine insufficiency is the most frequent cause of useful in cases of mild
