Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


of one of these may predominate. Thus, specificities of 80–100%.180 181 However, faecal elastase is not pancreatic exocrine insufficiency is the most frequent cause of useful in cases of mild pancreatic insufficiency with sensitivities severe predominant steatorrhoea where faecal fat excretion exceeds 13 g/day (47 mmol/day).173 This is rare in mucosal or struc- of <60% and is not able to reliably distinguish pancreatic from non-pancreatic malabsorption. A comparison of faecal elastase tural disease, although milder forms of steatorrhoea are common. with other non-invasive tests suggests superior sensitivity to the In comparison, carbohydrate malabsorption is predominantly para-amino benzoic acid test182 and the pancreolauryl test.183 associated with mucosal disease or dysfunction. Approaches to The test should be used with care in patients with liquid stool investigation involve either detection of the relevant compound in and this can lead to false positive results (ie, low levels of faecal faeces or detection of an absorbed substance in the blood, urine or elastase due to dilution). other tissues. A variation of the latter is the use of breath testing, which relies on the breakdown and bacterial fermentation of the test substance. These investigations (stool fat, isotope breath or 6.2 Pancreatic imaging faecal tests, sugar and other permeability tests) were detailed by a previous version of these guidelines174 and will not be covered The progressive inflammatory change that occurs in chronic pancreatitis leads to significant changes in pancreatic structure. further here because, with the exception of hydrogen breath tests Focal segmental or diffuse destruction of the parenchyma occurs (see section 6.5.2), none have received significant support in in the early stages while structuring, dilation of the duct and calci- publications since 2003 and they have not established themselves fication tend to occur late in the disease. There has been debate in clinical practice outside specialist centres. around the significance of the sometimes subtle changes found at EUS or endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (ERP) in the 6.1 fat malabsorption diagnosis of early chronic pancreatitis, particularly in patients Pancreatic exocrine insufficiency can lead to malabsorption (or presenting with abdominal pain. For more advanced pancreatic more correctly maldigestion) and diarrhoea due to impairment disease with significant morphological change, CT scanning has of pancreatic enzyme and bicarbonate secretion. In adults, this become the initial imaging of choice given the poor sensitivity of is usually the result of chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic carci- USS in this situation (approximately 60%)184 185 and in assessing
