Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


become the initial imaging of choice given the poor sensitivity of is usually the result of chronic pancreatitis, pancreatic carci- USS in this situation (approximately 60%)184 185 and in assessing noma or pancreatic surgery. Maldigestion of fat can result in for pancreatic malignancy. Its sensitivity in detecting early steatorrhoea and weight loss but may not be clinically apparent. pancreatic changes is unknown, but it is significantly less than Steatorrhoea can be caused by small bowel malabsorption and EUS or magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)/ ERP. Newer non-invasive methods for diagnosing pancreatic unreliable.175 Symptoms of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency cancer are beginning to emerge.186 usually develop 10–15 years after first symptoms of chronic MRCP with secretin (MRCP-S) appears to significantly pancreatitis and when secretion of lipase and other pancreatic increase the diagnostic yield in patients with asymptomatic enzymes is reduced to <10% of normal values. The diagnosis of hyperamylasaemia187and showed equivalent sensitivity to endo- advanced chronic pancreatitis in patients presenting with diar- scopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography (ERCP) in deter- rhoea is often suggested by the clinical history and confirmed mining ductal changes in patients with idiopathic recurrent with imaging. A number of recent guidelines outline the current pancreatitis.188 The technique has been proposed as an alterna- strategies for diagnosing chronic pancreatitis.176–179 There are tive to direct pancreatic function tests, but issues of standardisa- international variations in practice depending on the availability tion and interpretation remain to be resolved.189 190 Quantitative of various modalities such as endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and MRCP after secretin has also been correlated with faecal elastase direct pancreatic function tests. However, there is a broad agree- and pancreolauryl testing191 192 and has been shown to correlate ment that invasive direct pancreatic function testing has become with histology.193 However, it is a specialised procedure and not recommended for initial diagnostic investigation for chronic rect pancreatic function testing and imaging. It is also recognised pancreatitis. that there is currently no ideal test to diagnose chronic pancre- EUS is able to detect mild parenchymal and ductal abnormalities atitis in early/mild disease. not seen on CT. Comparison with ERCP in seven studies revealed sensitivity of 68–100% with specificity of 78–97%194 based on 6.1.1 Faecal elastase standard scoring of nine criteria. A study of 83 patients showed Three-day faecal fat estimation is laborious, unpleasant and is EUS to have an equivalent diagnostic accuracy for early and late no longer performed in UK laboratories. Stool chymotrypsin stage
