Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


but of such a positive result may be difficult to determine. Although malabsorptive syndromes have primarily been associated with some of these data are now more than three decades old with no anaerobic organisms, isolation and categorisation of bacterial recent re-evaluations of these earlier studies. Moreover, these anaerobes are not routinely performed in many laboratories. tests are difficult to perform and compare as there is little stan- dardisation. Although American guidelines continue to recom- Furthermore, the lack of standardisation of bacterial counts, the mend direct pancreatic function tests as part of the diagnostic possibility of sampling errors and the need for intubation make investigation for chronic pancreatitis,176 there is no place in UK a simpler, less invasive investigation desirable. and European practice for these invasive tests. 6.5.2 Breath tests 6.4 non-invasive pancreatic function testing Breath tests have been an attractive alternative to culture of These tests assess pancreatic enzymes or the consequences of small bowel aspirates for many years. However, the sensitivity maldigestion by measurement of stool, serum, urine or breath. and specificity of these tests are in general poor. The tests include fat, elastase and chymotrypsin measurement Hydrogen breath testing is based on the ability of some in stool, urine tests requiring detection of markers in urine or bacteria to ferment carbohydrates with an end product of breath released from the gut and absorbed following digestion hydrogen, which is not produced by mammalian cells. It was of synthetic substrate by pancreatic enzymes. All of these tests originally proposed that breath testing after a carbohydrate load require significant loss of pancreatic function before becoming resulted in a double peak due to metabolism by small bowel positive, with poor sensitivity and specificity in mild/early bacteria, followed by a more prolonged peak due to metabolism pancreatic disease. by colonic bacteria.212 The reproducibility of this double peak pattern has been challenged213 214 as the appearance of the initial 6.4.1 Urine and breath tests peak is more likely to be due to fermentation by oropharyngeal The two tests (NBTP and pancreolauryl) previously in use are flora or variation in orocaecal transit times and fermentation now of largely historical interest as neither, to our knowledge, is of carbohydrate in the caecum.215 In addition, a false negative in use in the UK due to their poor sensitivity and specificity.203 result may occur in the 3–25% of individuals whose bacterial Equally, while European guidelines have recommended flora
