Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


negative in use in the UK due to their poor sensitivity and specificity.203 result may occur in the 3–25% of individuals whose bacterial Equally, while European guidelines have recommended flora are not hydrogen producers.216 This may in part be due to the use of the C13 mixed triglyceride breath test as an alter- variations in the particular species of bacteria involved in small native to faecal elastase testing, it is not widely available with bowel colonisation as, for example, none of Staphylococcus poor sensitivity in mild/moderate disease204 and therefore not aureus, Enterococci spp, Serratia or Pseudomonas spp produce recommended. hydrogen. Because of these problems, it is unsurprising that several studies 6.5 small bowel bacterial overgrowth (sbbo) have now shown the sensitivity and specificity of hydrogen 6.5.1 Introduction breath tests to be low.211 217 Recently, Erdogan et al217 found that The small bowel normally has little bacterial colonisation with glucose breath testing had a sensitivity less than 50% compared concentrations in the proximal jejunum of less than 104 colony with duodenal aspirate, regardless of whether or not methane forming units (cfu)/mL in the normal healthy state compared measurement was added to hydrogen. Both the positive and with 109–1012 in the colon. negative predictive values for breath testing were less than 70%. Few data exist on the prevalence of small bowel bacterial Corazza and colleagues211 found sensitivities of 62% and 68% overgrowth (SBBO) in patients presenting with diarrhoea and/or for glucose and lactulose-hydrogen breath tests, respectively. malabsorption. However, patients with anatomical or functional These studies support the poor results with the 10 g lactulose test reasons for abnormal orocaecal transit have been reported to reported by Riordan and colleagues,218 with a sensitivity of only be at increased risk. Such predisposing factors include diabetes, 17% and a specificity of 70%. The authors used scintigraphy to 1392 Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: Guidelines respect of these patients, investigations should follow the same recommendations assessment and investigation pathway as detailed above and in the NICE guidance CG131 ( nice. org. uk/g uidance/ ► We recommend faecal elastase testing as the preferred non- cg131). There is a tendency—once organic disease, particularly invasive test for pancreatic function (Grade of evidence level neoplasia and IBD, have been excluded—for the surgeon to 1, Strength of recommendation strong). either reassure the patient and discharge or refer on to a gastro- ► MRI (with MRCP protocol) is the recommended
