Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


been excluded—for the surgeon to 1, Strength of recommendation strong). either reassure the patient and discharge or refer on to a gastro- ► MRI (with MRCP protocol) is the recommended investigation enterologist. This may be appropriate but it is prudent for the of choice for diagnosing chronic pancreatitis. If unavailable, surgeon to bear in mind other potential organic aetiologies. For CT would be the next modality of choice (Grade of evidence instance, unrecognised cases of coeliac disease are sometimes level 2, Strength of recommendation strong). seen in colorectal clinics. Patients present with vague GI symp- ► In cases where pancreatic insufficiency is strongly suspected toms, iron deficiency anaemia or chronic diarrhoea and are often but initial screening tests are negative, we suggest further falsely diagnosed as diarrhoea-predominant IBS.223 imaging with either EUS or MRCP with secretin (if available) (Grade of evidence level 3, Strength of recommendation 7.1 faecal incontinence weak). Some groups of patients are directed towards surgeons because ► We suggest culture of small bowel aspirates as it is the most diarrhoea is not the primary patient-perceived symptom. A sensitive test for small bowel bacterial overgrowth (SBBO), typical example is faecal incontinence. Such patients may well but methods are poorly standardised and positive results may have a compromised sphincter complex but fail to maintain not reflect clinically significant SBBO (Grade of evidence level continence because of the underlying diarrhoea. Although an 2, Strength of recommendation weak). important risk factor for incontinence along with age, obstetric ► In the absence of an optimal test to confirm the presence trauma, pelvic surgery, obesity and other medical conditions of bacterial overgrowth and in those with a high test such as diabetes and stroke, it may not be recognised and inves- probability of SBBO, we recommend an empirical trial of tigated appropriately. Again, NICE gives guidance as to appro- antibiotics; the value of this approach has not been subject priate management with baseline assessment aimed at addressing to definitive study (Grade of evidence level 3, Strength of underlying conditions such as potentially treatable causes of recommendation strong). diarrhoea ( nice. org. uk/ guidance/c g49). An associ- ated group who may complain of both faecal incontinence and diarrhoea are those with severe faecal loading where the diar- aid interpretation of the breath test, and this increased sensitivity rhoea is essentially overflow. Typical patients tend to be those to 39% and specificity to 100%.219 220
