Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


where the diar- aid interpretation of the breath test, and this increased sensitivity rhoea is essentially overflow. Typical patients tend to be those to 39% and specificity to 100%.219 220 with cognitive or behavioural issues, have learning difficulties, This illustrates a key underlying flaw of breath testing in or those with neurological or spinal disease. A focused baseline isolation: that transit time is assumed rather than measured. assessment should therefore include an anorectal examination The result of this assumption is that fast orocaecal transit can which will identify impaction and, for instance, rectal prolapse. confound interpretation of an early hydrogen peak, a circum- Plain radiography or radio-opaque marker studies have been stance that is more likely after intestinal resection. This issue used but there is poor correlation between the two.224 Specialist has been demonstrated in high-quality physiological and clinical investigations include anorectal manometry and endoanal ultra- studies with both lactulose and glucose.214 219 220 sound, but there are no accepted standards for performing The methodological problems and performance of hydrogen these specialist tests. The evidence behind their use is limited breath testing mean that it may add little when SBBO is to the fact that they are better than simple clinical assessment suspected. A positive test will reinforce the clinician’s prior view in deciding surgical management. Therefore, they should only that the cause may be SBBO; a negative test will not exclude the be instigated once conservative measures for faecal incontinence diagnosis as a possibility. It is not clear that such an intermediate have been exhausted and surgical intervention is contemplated. investigative step is necessary or of value. It would be reasonable to test for SBBO in patients with diarrhoea and a low to moderate pretest probability of SBBO. However, where the pretest proba- 7.2 Post-surgical diarrhoea bility is high—for example, in those with anatomical abnormali- There is a third group of ‘surgical’ patients with diarrhoea. These ties such as dilation, diverticulosis, prior small bowel surgery or are the patients who have developed diarrhoea as a result of pseudo-obstruction—the most practical approach would be to surgical intervention. The underlying aetiology of the diarrhoea proceed straight to an empirical antibiotic trial. may be attributed to pyloric dysfunction, bile salt malabsorption, Strengthening facilities for microbiological analysis of gut bacterial overgrowth or gut bypass reducing absorptive capacity. flora after endoscopic sampling is likely to be a more productive Upper GI surgery may result
