Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


facilities for microbiological analysis of gut bacterial overgrowth or gut bypass reducing absorptive capacity. flora after endoscopic sampling is likely to be a more productive Upper GI surgery may result in damage or division of the focus for service development. Culture of unwashed mucosal vagus nerve accompanied in part by reduction in capacity of the biopsies may facilitate collection of microbiological samples stomach in the case of gastric resection. Rapid gastric emptying rather than by using jejunal aspirates.221 In its absence, most may result in osmotic diarrhoea and associated symptoms of units will remain reliant on assessing the effect of an empirical ‘dumping’ syndrome. Surgery can also provide an ideal envi- trial of antibiotics.222 ronment for bacterial colonisation and overgrowth leading to chronic diarrhoea. GI tract surgeries that create a blind loop (eg, a Billroth II procedure or a Roux-en-Y anastomosis) may predis- 7 surGIcAl/structurAl cAuses of DIArrHoeA pose to stasis and overgrowth due to abnormal motility and There is significant overlap of the type of patient referred to ineffective clearance of retained food and secretions.225 In addi- a surgeon rather than a gastroenterologist and many of the tion, those who have undergone jejunoileal bypass, an end-to- assessment and investigation recommendations are relevant. side enteroenteric anastomosis or the creation of a Koch distal Often patients are directed towards surgeons through the urgent ileal pouch are at risk. In the same way, small bowel strictures pathway where there is a need to exclude organic disease. In may lead to bacterial stasis and overgrowth. These may occur Arasaradnam RP, et al. Gut 2018;67:1380–1399. doi: 1393 Guidelines vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)omas and glucagonomas.230 recommendations Even this incidence value is likely to be an overestimate. Diar- rhoea occurs as part of a symptom complex varying according ► Faecal impaction with overflow diarrhoea should be to the tumour type (eg, 100% cases in VIPoma, approximately considered especially in the elderly. We recommend clinical 65% in gastrinoma). Although diarrhoea has been reported at judgement rather than marker studies to confirm this (Grade a prevalence of 15% in glucagonoma, this again is probably an of evidence level 4, Strength of recommendation strong). overestimate. A wide variety of other symptoms may accompany ► For patients with persistent faecal incontinence we hypersecretion of these hormones and detailed discussion is recommend anorectal manometry and endoanal available elsewhere.231 ultrasonography once conservative measures have Confirmation of the diagnosis in each case requires
