Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


incontinence we hypersecretion of these hormones and detailed discussion is recommend anorectal manometry and endoanal available elsewhere.231 ultrasonography once conservative measures have Confirmation of the diagnosis in each case requires demon- been exhausted (Grade of evidence level 3, Strength of stration of an elevated serum hormone concentration. A VIP recommendation strong). secreting tumour may be suspected in the context of large ► If a fistula is suspected, cross-sectional imaging with contrast volumes of secretory diarrhoea (>1 litre/day), dehydration and is recommended (Grade of evidence level 3, Strength of hypokalaemia. Normal values for circulating VIP are less than recommendation strong). 170 pg/mL, while mean VIP serum concentrations in patients with functioning tumours range from 675 to 965 pg/mL.232As serum levels fluctuate, the assay should be performed during an after surgery but can also be seen after radiotherapy, in Crohn’s episode of diarrhoea. Similarly, serum gastrin levels in patients disease and secondary to some medications.226 with gastrinomas are considerably higher than the normal range Small and large bowel resection clearly reduces absorptive of 150 pg/mL, with average values of approximately 1000 pg/ capacity. At the extreme, this results in short bowel syndrome mL. However, comparable values can be found in patients with characterised clinically by chronic diarrhoea, dehydration, elec- pernicious anaemia, other types of atrophic gastritis or potent trolyte abnormalities and malnutrition. The severity and manage- acid suppressant therapy.233 Raised levels, although not to the ment depend on the site and extent of the intestinal resection, same degree, also occur in other conditions such as diabetes whether there is disease in the residual bowel and the degree mellitus, renal insufficiency and rheumatoid arthritis. of adaptation of the remaining bowel. However, even a simple Diarrhoea is often a prominent feature (occuring in up to limited right hemicolectomy may result in diarrhoea as a result 50% of cases234) in carcinoid syndrome, which accounts for of loss of the ileocaecal valve and resorptive capacity of the right 20% of midgut neuroendocrine tumours.235 This almost always colon. This increases the risk of developing bacterial overgrowth occurs in the context of hepatic metastases, even if the primary because of retrograde movement of bacteria from the colon into site remains undefined. The clinical diagnosis of ‘malignant the small intestine. This has been clearly demonstrated in one disease’ is usually evident. A raised 24-hour urinary 5-hydroxy- trial of patients with Crohn's disease which showed that resec- indoleacetic acid (above
