Guidelines
KEYWORDS: diarrhoea, patients, bowel, disease, evidence, chronic, level, tests, recommendation, small, strength, grade, bile, strong, faecal


intestine. This has been clearly demonstrated in one disease’ is usually evident. A raised 24-hour urinary 5-hydroxy- trial of patients with Crohn's disease which showed that resec- indoleacetic acid (above the local reference laboratory value) has tion of the ileocaecal valve almost doubled the prevalence of a high sensitivity and specificity (88%)236 for the condition and bacterial overgrowth.227 correlates with tumour bulk, bioactive product secretion and, frequently, with the severity of symptoms.237 However, this is 7.3 fistulae subject to patients adhering to dietary restrictions and often a The common theme in many of these surgical conditions is struc- 3-day dietary intake should accompany the sample so the labo- tural change. However, structural change may not necessarily ratory can assess for any dietary interference (eg, serotonin-rich be surgically induced. Disease processes can also predispose to food such as bananas).235 gut bypass, bile acid diarrhoea and bacterial overgrowth. Fistula formation, such as commonly seen in Crohn’s disease, is one 8.2 factitious diarrhoea example of gut bypass. Cholecystoenteric fistulae are a poten- Factitious diarrhoea caused by laxative abuse or the spurious tial cause of bile acid diarrhoea, particularly if the fistula is to the colon.228 Small bowel diverticula which occur in approxi- adding of water or urine to stool specimens has been recognised as a relatively common cause of reported chronic diarrhoeal mately 1–6% of the population may harbour bacteria and result in bacterial overgrowth.229 symptoms in Western populations. The likelihood of this diag- nosis increases as more numerous and repeated investigations reveal negative results. Thus, although only 4% of patients 7.4 Investigations visiting district gastroenterology clinics had factitious diarrhoea, In terms of investigation, clearly surgically-induced structural this value increased to 20% of those evaluated at tertiary referral change may be obvious from the history. A digital rectal exam- centres, which made it the most common cause of diarrhoea of ination is essential. It allows clinical assessment of the sphincter previously undetermined origin.15 Similarly, a survey of patients complex and will exclude faecal impaction as well as low who had undergone extensive evaluation revealed 33% who anorectal lesions. Further investigations, if required, to examine were found to be taking laxatives or diuretics; 22% had undi- for structural change are mainly radiological; CT scanning and agnosed colitis (ulcerative or microscopic colitis), 7% had faecal contrast studies will identify the structural changes. incontinence and 7% had other organic disorders.26 Repeated analysis of stool and urine
