Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


ABSTRACT Lipids disorders are common in youth. Adolescents and young women of childbearing age who have moderate to severe lipid disorders may benefit from treatment with lipid lowering medications (LLM). However, most of these medications are contraindicated in pregnancy. Those who are sexually active should receive counseling on effective methods to prevent unplanned pregnancies. While contraceptives, when appropriate, are typically prescribed by primary care physicians, lipidologists are often asked to address the unique aspects related to use of long-term LLMs, such as statins, in females with hypercholesterolemia. Appropriate counseling and management require not only knowledge of the effects of sexual maturation on lipid and lipoprotein metabolism, but a thorough understanding of current recommendations and potential harms associated with the use of some LLMs, such as statins, should pregnancy occur. In this chapter, we review changes in lipid and lipoprotein metabolism during puberty, current guidelines for use of contraceptive methods in adolescent and young adult females and laws that pertain to this unique population. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CANDIDATES FOR LIPID LOWERING MEDICATIONS IN YOUTH There are a number of lipid disorders, both acquired and genetic, that may warrant pharmacotherapy, beginning at an early age. These include primary hypercholesterolemia, such as familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), and the severe hypertriglyceridemia characteristic of familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS). A discussion of the specific disorders causing moderate to severe dyslipidemia in adolescents and young adults can be found in Endotext ( 1 - 3 ). LIPID AND LIPOPROTEIN METABOLISM DURING PUBERTY It should be noted that lipid levels vary throughout childhood and adolescence. Prior studies have described these changes. At young ages, lipid levels are similar between boys and girls ( 3 - 12 ). Cholesterol levels at birth are typically very low. A review of studies of serum cholesterol in the U.S. concluded that total cholesterol (TC) concentration, which is approximately 65 mg/dl (1.68 mmol/l) in umbilical cord blood, rises after birth to reach a mean level of 165 mg/dl (4.27 mmol/l) by 2 years-of-age ( 13 ). When trends are analyzed by chronological age, mean TC levels generally peak between ages 9 to 11, followed by a decline during puberty. There are gender differences in the levels of other lipids and lipoproteins as well. A review of data from NHANES demonstrated that the prevalence of elevated levels of non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol
