Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


are gender differences in the levels of other lipids and lipoproteins as well. A review of data from NHANES demonstrated that the prevalence of elevated levels of non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) was greater in girls (9.4%) than in boys (7.5%) ( 14 ). Levels rise again after puberty to reach the adult values. Since puberty has such a remarkable effect on lipid levels, it is important to understand the stages of pubertal development in assessing and making recommendations for treatment of dyslipidemia in youth. Puberty is defined as the age at or period during which the body of a girl or boy matures and becomes capable of reproduction. Classically, there are five well-defined stages of puberty, often referred to as Tanner or pubertal stages 1 to 5 ( Figure 1 ) ( 15 - 17 ). Figure 1. Pubertal Stages Menarche, the term used to define the first menstrual cycle or episode of vaginal bleeding in females, generally occurs at pubertal stage 4; while pubertal stage 5 is used to define adult sexual maturity in both males and females. Despite earlier onset of secondary sexual characteristics, such as pubic hair, historically the median age at menarche has remained relatively stable - occurring at approximately 12 to 13 years-of-age in most females - across well-nourished populations in developed countries. Over the past 30 years, data from the U.S. NHANES has found no significant change in the median age at menarche, except among the non-Hispanic black population, which has a 5.5-month earlier median age at menarche than occurred previously. Excessive weight gain during childhood is associated with earlier onset of puberty. Environmental factors, including socioeconomic conditions, nutrition, and access to preventive health care, may also influence the timing and progression of puberty. By 15 years-of-age, 98% of females will have experienced menarche ( 18 ). In addition to a benchmark marking the beginning of reproductive life in females, both premature and delayed menarche appear to be associated with increased cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk ( 19 - 21 ). Women with prolonged and irregular menstrual cycles also appear to have higher risk for premature CVD and type 2 diabetes (T2D) ( 22 , 23 ). Previous studies have taken into account pubertal changes in assessing lipid and lipoprotein levels in youth ( 24 - 30 ). It should be noted that youth of the same age, sex, and race show considerable variability in
