Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


in assessing lipid and lipoprotein levels in youth ( 24 - 30 ). It should be noted that youth of the same age, sex, and race show considerable variability in their degree of sexual maturation and somatic growth. Thus, at all pubertal stages, chronological age can vary widely. This suggests that the use of age alone may be misleading when assessing the levels and changes in lipid levels in this population. In a longitudinal study that assessed pubertal stage at various ages, the levels of TC, low density-lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and non-HDL-C decreased in all groups during puberty ( 31 ). HDL-C decreased and triglyceride (TG) levels increased in males during puberty, while no changes were observed in females. For HDL-C, sex differences in the pattern of change emerged by pubertal stage 3 ( 31 ). Prior data has also suggested that HDL-C concentrations continue to decrease in males into early adulthood while remaining constant in females ( 32 ). Pubertal development should, therefore, be considered when determining criteria for initiation of lipid screening in youth; pre-pubertal (often before 9 years-of-age) and post-pubertal (typically after 17 years-of-age) screening might be useful despite current recommendations to screen between 9 to 11 years-of-age ( 31 ). For females who become pregnant, it is important to be aware of the additional changes in lipids that have been well-described ( 33 ). EFFECT OF PREGNANCY ON LIPID DISORDERS Management of dyslipidemia in adolescent and young adult females requires a thorough knowledge of lipid metabolism and physiologic changes that occur during pregnancy. Those who are considering pregnancy in the setting of a lipid disorder may benefit from preconception consultation with an obstetrician/maternal-fetal medicine specialist with knowledge of complex pregnancies to discuss the impact of pregnancy on maternal disease. If not seen prior to becoming pregnant, referral of those with severe dyslipidemia or FH is recommended early in pregnancy. Severe dyslipidemia has been associated with a variety of obstetric and maternal complications including preterm delivery, hypertension-related disorders of pregnancy, fetal growth restriction, increased fat deposition in the fetus, and maternal pancreatitis ( 34 ). Physiologic changes that occur during pregnancy lead to an increase in plasma concentrations of lipids and lipoproteins. Maternal hyperlipidemia routinely occurs in the later part of pregnancy with levels of TG, very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL-C), LDL-C, and HDL-C increased compared to non-pregnant females ( 35 ). These changes are related to increased
