Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


the later part of pregnancy with levels of TG, very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL-C), LDL-C, and HDL-C increased compared to non-pregnant females ( 35 ). These changes are related to increased insulin resistance during pregnancy as well as increased production of estrogen ( 36 ). Given the expected increases seen in cholesterol during pregnancy and the limited treatment options that are available, routinely following lipid levels during pregnancy is not recommended. However, patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia who are at-risk of pancreatitis and those with FH who may develop symptomatic ASCVD during pregnancy are an exception and should be followed closely ( 37 ). Following delivery, cholesterol concentrations begin to decline with levels returning to baseline in most women by 6 weeks postpartum. However, some data suggest levels may remain elevated for as long as 20 weeks postpartum. Breastfeeding leads to decreases in TG levels, however HDL-C levels increase. The effect of breastfeeding on LDL-C levels is unclear ( 36 ). SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF LIPID-LOWERING THERAPY WITH A RISK OF PREGNANCY In addition to heart-healthy living, use of LLMs is currently recommended as a treatment option for females with moderate-to-severe dyslipidemia ( 39 , 40 ). When prescribing these medications, it is important to understand the potential risks of each drug class as well as each individual drug, and effects on reproductive health. While rare, most adverse events are similar for male and female youth ( 41 ). Recommendations for use of LLMs, such as statins, in females of childbearing age should consider the potential of teratogenicity ( 33 , 39 ). To date there have been two systematic reviews that evaluated statins and teratogenicity. Neither found evidence that statins cause congenital anomalies independent of concomitant medical conditions associated with their use ( 42 , 43 ). Of interest, in women with a prior history of pre-eclampsia use of pravastatin during subsequent pregnancy has shown promising results for preventing recurrence ( 44 , 45 ). Nonetheless, caution is advised when recommending the use of statins in females, including adolescent and young adult females. Due to the current recommendation to avoid pregnancy while using most LLMs (including statins), an informative, developmentally appropriate discussion regarding contraceptive options is recommended prior to treatment of females of childbearing age. Most women who plan to become pregnant should stop the statin 1 to 2 months before conception is attempted ( 39 , 46 , 47 ).
