Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


females of childbearing age. Most women who plan to become pregnant should stop the statin 1 to 2 months before conception is attempted ( 39 , 46 , 47 ). If an adolescent or young adult female becomes pregnant while taking a LLM other than a bile acid sequestrant (e.g., colesevelam), best practice has been to immediately stop the LLM and the patient should be followed closely by an obstetrician in addition to a lipid specialist. LDL apheresis can be safely used during pregnancy and may be beneficial to some women. It should be stated, however, that in 2021 the FDA requested revisions to the prescribing information about statin use during pregnancy, noting that contraindication of these drugs in all pregnant women is not appropriate. The FDA recommended removing this labeling, based upon the benefits statins may have in preventing serious or potentially fatal events in a small group of very high-risk pregnant patients. Removing the contraindication enables health care professionals and patients to make individual decisions about benefit and risk, especially for those at very high risk of heart attack or stroke, such as homozygous FH and females who have previously had a heart attack or stroke ( 47 ). NON-STATIN THERAPIES Lifestyle changes, including dietary modifications, are recommended for all individuals with lipid disorders and should be considered a cornerstone of lipid management in pregnancy as well. There are limited data, however, on use of non-statin medications to treat elevations in cholesterol and triglyceride during pregnancy. If any of the following medications are considered in an adolescent or woman of child-bearing age, the potential for pregnancy and relative risks must be taken into consideration. Bile Acid Sequestrants Despite reassurance of statin safety, only bile acid sequestrants are currently considered safe for use in treating LDL-C disorders during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Ezetimibe No data are available on use during pregnancy. Animal studies have found ezetimibe crosses the placenta. At levels significantly higher than those achieved with human doses, there appears to be a slightly increased risk of skeletal abnormalities in rats and rabbits. Therefore, this agent is not recommended for use during pregnancy. If used prior to pregnancy, ezetimibe should be discontinued prior to attempting to become pregnant ( 48 ). PCSK9 Inhibitors (Monoclonal Evolocumab, Alirocumab and mRNA Therapy Inclisiran) No data are available on use during pregnancy. An observational trial of evolocumab in pregnant women with FH was
