Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


48 ). PCSK9 Inhibitors (Monoclonal Evolocumab, Alirocumab and mRNA Therapy Inclisiran) No data are available on use during pregnancy. An observational trial of evolocumab in pregnant women with FH was terminated after being unable to enroll sufficient subjects (4 patients in 4 years; clinical trials.gov NCT02906124 ). PCSK9 inhibitors are not approved for use in pregnancy nor currently recommended ( 48 ). Bempedoic acid This drug should be discontinued when pregnancy is recognized, unless the benefits of therapy outweigh the potential risks to the fetus ( 49 ). Evinacumab No data are available on use during pregnancy. Based on animal studies, exposure during pregnancy may lead to fetal harm ( 49 ). Lomitapide This drug is not recommended during pregnancy due to concerns for fetal harm ( 49 ). Fibrates Limited data are available on use during pregnancy. Adverse outcomes from the use of fibrates during the second trimester have not been reported. However, such observations are based on case reports ( 50 ). Most reported use of fibrates (both gemfibrozil and fenofibrate) during pregnancy occurred in the second trimester, after embryogenesis occurs. Studies in animals have found no increased risk of congenital malformations ( 48 ). Omega-3-Fatty Acid Lifestyle modifications with increase in dietary omega-3-fatty acids appear to be safe during pregnancy. Prescription omega-3-fatty acids are not approved for use during pregnancy ( 48 ). Volanesorsen No data are available on use during pregnancy. If used prior to pregnancy, volanesoren should be discontinued one month before attempting conception ( 51 ). This drug is not approved for use in the U.S. Plasmapheresis In those at-risk of severe elevations in TG due to acquired (insulin resistance/diabetes) and genetic causes (FCS and MCS), case reports and reviews have reported use of plasmapheresis in those who develop pancreatitis. The procedure appears to be safe and has the advantage of quickly lowering TG levels ( 52 , 53 ). LDL Apheresis This procedure can be safely used during pregnancy and may be beneficial to some women with severely elevated lipids, such as FH ( 39 ). SEXUAL ACTIVITY, RISK OF PREGNANCY AND SEXUAL HISTORY TAKING Drugs such as statins are increasingly prescribed to females of childbearing age, including prior to the onset of sexual maturity. Since current guidelines still suggest avoidance or discontinuation of most LLMs during pregnancy, it is important for clinicians to consider the appropriate age at which a conversation regarding
