Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


sexual maturity. Since current guidelines still suggest avoidance or discontinuation of most LLMs during pregnancy, it is important for clinicians to consider the appropriate age at which a conversation regarding contraceptive options should be initiated. In addition to knowledge regarding pubertal development and reproductive ability, clinicians should have an awareness of current sexual practices amongst adolescents. According to the National Center for Health Statistics Reports, an estimated 55% of U.S. male and female teens have had sexual intercourse by 18 years-of-age; approximately 80% of teens used some form of contraception during their first episode of sex ( 54 ). The proportion of youth who have had sexual intercourse increases rapidly throughout adolescence. In 2013, approximately 1% of 10-year-olds, 20% of 15-year-olds and 65% of 18-year-olds reported having had sexual intercourse (Figure 2). Figure 2. Percent of individuals 10-40 years-of-age who have had sexual intercourse. Modified from J. Philbin, Guttmacher Institute, unpublished data from the National Survey of Family Growth, 2013 ( 93 ). For youth 11 years-of-age and older, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends healthcare providers obtain a developmentally-appropriate sexual history, including assessing risk of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and pregnancy, and provision of appropriate screening, counseling, and, if needed, contraceptives options for adolescents during clinic visits ( 55 ). An adolescent’s sexual history should be updated regularly and conducted in a confidential and non-judgmental manner, re-addressing the needs for contraception, STI screening, and appropriate counseling regarding reduction of health risks related to sexual activity ( 56 ). Pregnancy testing should be conducted when appropriate or requested. Key to effective history taking is an honest, caring, non-judgmental approach by the healthcare provider. Interviews should be conducted in a comfortable, matter-of-fact manner to encourage questions and to build trust. This can be accomplished by assessing the “5 Ps” of sexual history taking: P artners P revention of pregnancy P rotection from STIs Sexual P ractices P ast history of STIs and pregnancy To encourage compliance, counseling should incorporate techniques of motivational interviewing ( 57 ). Although there has been a decline in recent years, the pregnancy rate amongst adolescent females in the U.S. remains substantially higher than in other Western industrialized nations and racial/ethnic and geographic disparities in teen birth rates persist ( 58 - 62 ). EFFECT OF CONTRACEPTIVE OPTIONS ON LIPOPROTEIN METABOLISM While clinicians should review the effects on lipid levels when prescribing contraception, there are limited
