Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


birth rates persist ( 58 - 62 ). EFFECT OF CONTRACEPTIVE OPTIONS ON LIPOPROTEIN METABOLISM While clinicians should review the effects on lipid levels when prescribing contraception, there are limited data to aid selection of a specific contraceptive method based upon the individual’s underlying presumed or confirmed lipid disorder. Review of the CDC Summary Chart of US Medical Eligibility Criteria for Contraceptive Use suggests avoidance of estrogen containing birth control as well as DMPA in individuals at increased risk of cardiovascular disease, which would include those with lipid disorders. Preferred methods of contraception for this vulnerable population would include the copper IUD, which contains no hormones, followed by a levonorgestrel containing IUD, implant, and progestin only contraceptive pills. Although the impact of estrogen and progestin on lipid parameters has been well described, it is not known whether the hormone formulation or the means of administration of various contraceptive methods have any clinical significance either in women with normal baseline lipid levels or in those with lipid disorders (Table 1) ( 63 ). Furthermore, insufficient data are available in regard to the effect of various contraceptive methods when used in individuals with well-defined lipid disorders. Table 1. The Effects of Contraceptive Methods on Lipids and Lipoproteins View in own window Contraceptive Method LDL-C HDL-C TG Comments/References Combined Oral Contraceptive Pill Estrogen Decrease Increase Increase For OCPs with an identical dose of estrogen, the choice and dose of the progestin component may affect net lipid changes ( 63 , 64 ) Progestin Increase Decrease Decrease Transdermal Patch Decrease Increase Increase ( 65 ) Vaginal Ring --- --- Increase ( 66 ) DMPA Increase Decrease Neutral ( 67 , 68 ) LDL-C = low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; HDL-C = high-density lipoprotein cholesterol; TG = triglycerides; DMPA = Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate In general, combined oral contraceptives (COCs) raise TGs slightly. The effects on LDL-C and HDL-C are less predictable, but the effects are thought to be related to the dose of the ethinyl estradiol, the type of progestin, and health status of the patient (for example, obese versus not obese). Once OCPs are discontinued, lipid and lipoprotein levels appear to return to pre-treatment levels ( 64 ). If an oral contraceptive is preferred, the use of COCs that contain 35 mcg or less of estrogen is generally recommended for most adult women with controlled dyslipidemia. Compared to COCs, transdermal and vaginal contraception have similar effects
