Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


of COCs that contain 35 mcg or less of estrogen is generally recommended for most adult women with controlled dyslipidemia. Compared to COCs, transdermal and vaginal contraception have similar effects on lipid profiles. Barrier methods and IUDs are generally considered to be lipid neutral ( 65 , 66 ). COCs have also been shown to increase plasma insulin and glucose levels and reduce insulin sensitivity in women; however, these effects are negligible for current formulations and among women of normal weight without polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). For females who are overweight/obese and those with PCOS, potential adverse effects should be considered in the choice of contraceptive method ( 67 - 74 ). SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF CONTRACEPTIVE OPTIONS IN ADOLESCENT AND YOUNG ADULT FEMALES How does one determine which contraceptive is the best option for an adolescent or young adult female with dyslipidemia? From a practical point of view, this is largely dependent upon the individual’s needs, preference, resources, and ability to adhere to the method chosen. Abstinence is 100% effective in preventing pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections, and is an important part of contraceptive counseling. Although adolescents should be encouraged to delay onset of sexual activity, adherence to abstinence in this age group is low. Therefore, healthcare providers are encouraged to discuss comprehensive sexual health and the risks/benefits of contraceptive options with all adolescents ( 56 , 75 ). A review of the many options available for contraception is beyond the scope of this discussion. The safety and efficacy of contraceptive methods is also reviewed in the Endotext Chapter entitled “Contraception” ( 76 ). It is important to note that currently the most effective form of birth control is the contraceptive implant, followed by the IUD, and the progestin injection ( Figures 3 ) ( 77 ). Figure 3. Effectiveness of Contraceptive Options. (Adapted from World Health Organization 2011 and Trussell, 2011. ( 78 , 79 ). * The percentages indicate the number of women out of every 100 who experienced an unintended pregnancy within the first year of typical use of each contraceptive method. Given their efficacy, safety, and ease of use, in coordination with the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the AAP currently recommends long-acting reversible contraception (LARC) be considered first-line contraceptive choices for adolescents ( 56 , 80 ). Key points for healthcare providers when recommending contraceptive methods: Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) and the contraceptive
