Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


contraception (LARC) be considered first-line contraceptive choices for adolescents ( 56 , 80 ). Key points for healthcare providers when recommending contraceptive methods: Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) and the contraceptive patch are highly effective methods of contraception that are much safer than pregnancy. It is appropriate to prescribe contraceptives or refer for IUD placement without first conducting a pelvic examination. Screenings for STIs, especially chlamydia, can be performed without a pelvic examination. If appropriate, consistent and correct use of condoms with every act of sexual intercourse should be encouraged. Physicians should have a working knowledge of the different combined hormonal methods and regimens for contraception and medical management of common conditions, such as acne, dysmenorrhea, and heavy menstrual bleeding. Adolescents with chronic illnesses and disabilities (estimated to be16 to 25% of adolescents) have similar sexual health and contraceptive needs as their healthy adolescent counterparts, although the medical illness may complicate contraceptive choices ( 56 ). Healthcare providers who desire more information regarding contraception options for adolescent and young adult females, including those with medical conditions, are encouraged to consult the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) U.S. Selected Practice Recommendations for Contraceptive Use ( 81 , 82 ). HORMONAL CONTRACEPTIVE METHODS IN FEMALES WITH COMPLEX MEDICAL CONDITIONS Aside from concerns regarding the effects of medications during unplanned pregnancy, recommendations for choice of contraceptive methods in females with primary lipid disorders should follow the same guidelines as outlined for age-appropriate females. Those with secondary dyslipidemia related to complicated, long-term medical conditions, such as chronic inflammatory diseases (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus), diabetes, and HIV may require addition considerations prior to recommending use of a specific contraceptive method. The concurrent use of medications may also affect contraceptive choices. Table 2 provides a brief summary of the current guidelines to assist in clinical decision-making. For a more detailed discussion, a review of the US Selected Practice Recommendations (US SPR) for Contraceptive Use, 2016 is recommended ( 74 - 81 ). Table 2. Summary of Classifications for Hormonal Contraceptive Methods and Intrauterine Devices View in own window Condition Cu-IUD LNG-IUD Implants DMPA POP CHCs Obesity a. BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 b. Menarche <18 years and BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 1 1 1 2 1 2 Cardiovascular Disease a. Multiple risk factors for ASCVD a 1 2 2* 3* 2* 3/4* Hypertension b a. Adequately controlled hypertension 1*
