Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


Hg or diastolic blood pressure ≥100 mm Hg are associated with increased risk for adverse health events as a result of pregnancy; c Factor V Leiden; prothrombin mutation; and protein S, protein C, and antithrombin deficiencies are associated with increased risk for adverse health events as a result of pregnancy; d This condition is associated with increased risk for adverse health events as a result of pregnancy; d For women with HIV infection who are not clinically well or not receiving ARV therapy, this condition is associated with increased risk for adverse health events as a result of pregnancy; e Insulin-dependent diabetes; diabetes with nephropathy, retinopathy, neuropathy, or diabetes with other vascular disease; or diabetes of >20 years’ duration are associated with increased risk of adverse health events as a result of pregnancy; f Nonvascular disease Categories for classifying hormonal contraceptives and intrauterine devices 1 = A condition for which there is no restriction for the use of the contraceptive method. 2 = A condition for which the advantages of using the method generally outweigh the theoretical or proven risks. 3 = A condition for which the theoretical or proven risks usually outweigh the advantages of using the method. 4 = A condition that represents an unacceptable health risk if the contraceptive method is used. Modified from Curtis, 2016 ( 81 , 82 ). WHEN CAN A CONTRACEPTIVE METHOD BE INITIATED? Same day initiation of a contraceptive, often referred to as a “quick start”, should be considered when appropriate, since delayed initiation may represent a barrier. All contraceptive methods can be initiated at any time, including on the day of the visit, if there is reasonable certainty that the adolescent or young adult female is not pregnant. This can be ascertained via history (no intercourse since last menstrual period or less than 7 days from the first day of last menstrual period) and a negative urine pregnancy test. In the setting of uncertainty regarding the possibility of pregnancy, initiation of COC, progestin only pills, and DMPA can proceed as the benefits are thought to outweigh the risks. Insertion of an IUD, however, should be avoided until the absence of pregnancy can be reasonably confirmed. https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Adolescent-Health-Care/Adolescent-Pregnancy-Contraception-and-Sexual-Activity?IsMobileSet=false Although pregnancy tests are often performed before initiating contraception, it should be noted that the accuracy of qualitative urine pregnancy tests varies. Pregnancy detection rates can vary widely because of differences in test sensitivity and
