Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


performed before initiating contraception, it should be noted that the accuracy of qualitative urine pregnancy tests varies. Pregnancy detection rates can vary widely because of differences in test sensitivity and the timing of testing relative to missed menses ( 83 , 84 ). A history of starting a normal menstrual period within the last 7 days or a denial of sexual intercourse since the start of the last normal menstrual period may not always be reliable. In addition, a young adolescent female may not have undergone menarche or may have irregular cycles within the first several months of initiating menarche, making it difficult to use this measure to rule out pregnancy. Prior to starting contraception, expectation of bleeding and possible menstrual changes associated with various methods should be reviewed. For females in which there is an uncertainty about the risk of pregnancy, except for an IUD, the benefits of starting other contraceptive methods likely exceed any risk. A pregnancy test should be repeated in 2-4 weeks. Additional information is available in the CDC’s U.S. Selected Practice Recommendations for Contraceptive Use. SHOULD LABORATORY SCREENING AND PELVIC EXAMINATION BE PERFORMED PRIOR TO INITIATION OF HORMONE CONTRACEPTION? As opposed to the general population, adolescent and young adult females with known dyslipidemia face a unique challenge. Machado and colleagues, noted dyslipidemia in 33% of 516 women (18-40 years-of-age), often accompanied by a history of smoking and an elevated BMI ( 85 ). Those with known medical problems or other special conditions might need additional examinations or tests before being considered appropriate candidates for a particular method of contraception. All adolescent and young adult females at-risk of CVD should have their blood pressure measured before initiation of COCs to ensure there is no underlying hypertension that might be exacerbated by the medication. Measurements of weight and a calculated BMI at baseline is helpful in monitoring changes and offering timely counseling to those who might be concerned about weight change perceived to be associated with their contraceptive method. For most healthy females, few examinations or tests are generally needed before initiation of most contraceptive methods. Research suggests that mandatory laboratory screening prior to initiation of contraceptive methods in this population can increase costs and may impose barriers to contraceptive access, critical in reducing unintended pregnancy ( 81 , 82 , 86 ). In general, laboratory tests, such as glucose, liver enzymes, hemoglobin and thrombogenic gene variants,
