Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


barriers to contraceptive access, critical in reducing unintended pregnancy ( 81 , 82 , 86 ). In general, laboratory tests, such as glucose, liver enzymes, hemoglobin and thrombogenic gene variants, pelvic examination and even screening for STD/HIV in the general population, are not recommended prior to initiation of treatment, since they do not contribute substantially to safe and effective use of the contraceptive method. CURRENT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MONITORING OF ADOLESCENT AND YOUNG ADULT WOMEN WITH DYSLIPIDEMIA DURING CONTRACEPTIVE USE Guidelines for monitoring teenage girls with dyslipidemia during use of contraceptives are lacking. It seems reasonable, however, to measure fasting serum lipid levels within 3 months following initiation of a contraceptive; and less frequently once lipid parameters are stable. In those with an LDL-C 160 mg/dL or more, or multiple additional CVD risk factors (including smoking, diabetes, obesity, hypertension, TGs greater than 250 mg/dL, HDL-C less than 35 mg/dL, or a family history of premature coronary artery disease), use of alternative contraception method should be considered. Preferred methods of contraception for this at-risk population include the copper IUD, which contains no hormones, followed by a levonorgestrel containing IUD, implant, and progestin only contraceptive pills. All are equally acceptable. No major concerns have been raised with interactions between lipid lowering medication and contraception. LEGAL CONCERNS One of the common legal concerns in treating youth less than 18 years-of-age is that of confidentiality for care surrounding reproductive health. The AAP supports policies of informed consent and protection of confidentiality for adolescents seeking contraception and sexual healthcare services. Confidentiality is critical in all discussions, care recommendations and documentation of sexual identity, sexual practices, sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and contraceptive choices ( 56 , 87 , 88 ). These concepts are important, since limitations of confidentiality and consent are linked to lower use of contraceptives and higher adolescent pregnancy rates ( 89 - 92 ). Over the past 30 years, in the U.S. states have expanded minors’ authority to consent to health care, including care related to sexual activity. This trend reflects the 1977 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Carey v. Population Services International that affirmed the constitutional right, in all states, to privacy for a minor to obtain contraceptives. The ruling also recognizes that while parental involvement is desirable, many minors will remain sexually active but may fail to seek reproductive advice or services if parental consent or acknowledged is required ( 93 ).
