Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


while parental involvement is desirable, many minors will remain sexually active but may fail to seek reproductive advice or services if parental consent or acknowledged is required ( 93 ). The majority of states have specific laws regarding a minor’s consent to contraception. The Guttmacher report ( 93 ) on current state laws and policies found: 23 states and the District of Columbia explicitly allow all minors to consent to contraceptive services. 24 states explicitly permit minors to consent to contraceptive services in one or more circumstances. 4 states have no explicit policy on minors’ authority to consent to contraceptive services. For states without specific laws, best practice guidelines, federal statutes and federal case law may support minor confidentiality and consent. For example, family planning clinics funded by Title X of the federal Public Health Services Act (42 USC §§300–300a-6 [1970]) are required to provide confidential services to adolescents ( 94 ). Even when a state has no relevant policy, case law or an explicit limitation, healthcare providers may provide medical care to a mature minor without parental consent, particularly if the state allows a minor to consent to related health services. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) also specifically addresses minor confidentiality ( 95 ). Although HIPAA allows parents access to a minor’s medical record as personal representatives, that access is denied when the minor is provided with confidentiality under state or other laws or when the parent agrees that the minor may have confidential care ( 96 ). Therefore, the AAP recommends that pediatricians have clinic policies that explicitly outline applicable confidential services and that healthcare providers discuss (and document) confidentiality policies with all parents and adolescents. HIPAA also states that if there is no applicable state law about the rights of parents to access the protected health information of their children, pediatricians (or other licensed health professionals) may exercise their professional judgment in providing or denying parental access to the medical records. Providers are encouraged to include detailed documentation of the decision in the child's medical record ( 96 ). Insurance, billing, and electronic health record systems create additional challenges, including an ability to maintain the confidentiality of visits, visit content, associated laboratory test results, and payment for the contraceptive method. For additional discussion of electronic health records, the AAP has published a policy statement on health information technology ( 97 ). Although contraception services
