Reproductive Health and its Impact on Lipid Management in Adolescent and Young Adult Females
KEYWORDS: pregnancy, pubmed, contraceptive, health, use, lipid, contraception, levels, females, sexual, risk, adolescents, adolescent, women, free


and payment for the contraceptive method. For additional discussion of electronic health records, the AAP has published a policy statement on health information technology ( 97 ). Although contraception services should be provided as a confidential service, adolescent females should be encouraged to involve parents or trusted adults whenever possible. In fact, many parents are supportive of minor consent and confidentiality for sexual health services ( 98 , 99 ). Adolescents who discuss sexuality and contraception with a parent or guardian are also more likely to use contraceptives consistently and are less likely to become pregnant ( 100 , 101 ). For individuals who are sexually active, it is important to discuss and document a plan for pregnancy prevention. Dermatologists have extensive experience with risk monitoring in adolescents. Use of isotretinoin, a medication with known teratogenic potential, requires an FDA mandated pregnancy prevention program (iPLEDGE). In this program, females are required to undergo monthly pregnancy testing, and pharmacies, wholesalers and prescribers are all required to participate in a system of informed written consent, warning labels, database registration and monthly identification of contraceptive methods. Despite its attempts to prevent adverse outcomes, the efficacy of this approach is debated ( 102 ). SUMMARY AND ADDITIONAL RESOURCES For adolescent and young adult females who may benefit from use of lipid-lowering medication, it is important to consider the individual’s stage of sexual maturation and sexual history in addition to the lipid disorder when making recommendation for contraception. For those who are sexually active, a comprehensive, developmentally appropriate discussion and documentation of a plan for reproductive health and pregnancy prevention is recommended. Most adolescents consider healthcare providers a highly reliable source of healthcare information. Establishing relationships with adolescents and families allow them to inquire about sensitive topics, such as sexuality and relationships, and to promote healthy decision-making. Several organizations provide excellent resources and extensive guidance in the appropriate use of contraceptive methods. With careful attention to confidentiality and reliable implementation of the individual plan for pregnancy prevention, healthcare providers can navigate the legal and ethical concerns while providing appropriate and compassionate care. When used cautiously in a supportive healthcare environment, lipid-lowering medications are safe and effective in treating lipid disorders in adolescent and young adult females. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to acknowledge Luke Hamilton, Suzanne Beckett, Dena Hanson, and Ashley Brock for their assistance in preparing and editing this manuscript. REFERENCES 1. Levenson AE,
