EPIDEMIOLOGICAL REVIEW
KEYWORDS: usa, gonorrhoea, syphilis, women, prevalence, increased, chlamydia, years, men, rates, cases, reported, sexual, stds, source


influenced temporal trends in the incidence and prevalence of reportedfrom32statesforchlamydia,29statesforgonorrhoea STD.61 However, evaluation of the population level impact of and 13 states for syphilis as part of the Corrections STD STD prevention programmes is still limited. As a result, it is Prevalence Monitoring Project.1 Among adolescent women difficulttodeterminetheextenttowhichsuchprogrammesor entering 57 juvenile corrections facilities, the median chlamy- their specific components have influenced temporal trends in dia positivity by facility was 14.2%. Positivity in women was the prevalence and incidence ofSTD.62 Althoughless so today, uniformly higher than in men. In adolescent men entering 87 many STD prevention interventions have been implemented juvenile corrections facilities, the median chlamydia positivity without strong empirical evidence of their efficacy, effective- was 6%. In women entering 38 adult corrections facilities, the nessorcostbenefit.Thelackofacomprehensive,standardised median positivity for chlamydiawas 7.4%.In menentering41 and consistent measurement and reporting system for risk adultcorrectionsfacilities,themedianchlamydiapositivitywas behaviours and programme activities further complicates 8.1%. evaluation concerns. Implementation science in general, and For gonorrhoea, the median positivity by facility for women itsapplicationtoSTDinterventionsinparticular,isinthevery entering38juvenilecorrectionsfacilitieswas4.7%.Themedian early stages of development. Consequently, many questions positivity for gonorrhoea in men entering 65 juvenile correc- central to planning and implementation of prevention pro- tionsfacilitieswas1.0%.Inwomenentering33adultfacilities, grammes—including when to implement particular interven- the median positivity by facility was 2.8%. In menentering 35 tions, who to target, how much coverage is required to have a adult corrections facilities, the median gonorrhoea positivity population level impact, how much coverage is achievable, was 2.3%. These high positivity rates suggest that persons whatincrementalimpactcanbeexpectedfromtheadditionof entering corrections facilities may comprise an important aparticularinterventiontotheinterventionmixandatwhatpoint special population for STDprevention interventions. diminishingmarginalreturnssetin—oftenremainunanswered.62 STDs including HIV infection are major health problems Currentdiscussionsaroundthechlamydiascreeningprogrammes languageandculturalbarriers,andlimitedeconomicresources Nevertheless, STD prevention programmes in the USA are combinedwithsexualbehavioursthatexposemigrantworkers marked by some remarkable achievements. For example, the to high-risk partners tend to perpetuate high levels of STD syphilis elimination programme of the last decade has made a morbidity amongthis group.5556 big impact on the syphilis epidemic among minority hetero- Finally, one assessment of the incidence and prevalence of sexuals, effectively containing it. Unfortunately, this success STDsamonghomelessadolescentsinalargenorth-westernUS wasbalancedbytheinabilitytomaintaincontrolofthesyphilis city showed a baseline prevalence of chlamydia of 4.17% for epidemic amongMSM.Similarly, gonorrhoea ratesamongthe men and 6.3% for women. The prevalence of HSV-2 was 5.7% white population of both sexes and all ages have been low for formenand12.5%forwomen,andtheprevalenceofhepatitis over a decade. Among young African-American women, B virus and hepatitis C virus were 3.6% and 5.0% respectively. however, gonorrhoea rates remain unacceptably high. Further HIV seroprevalence was
