An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy EFFECT OF GLIADIN ON INTESTINAL EPITHELIAL CELLS OF PATIENTS WITH GLUTEN-SENSITIVE ENTEROPATHY IN ORGAN CULTURE Z. MYRON FALCHUK, ROGER L. GEBHARD, CLEMENTINE SESSOMS, and WARRENSTROBER Fromthe Digestive andHereditary Diseases Branch, NationalInstituteof Arthritis, Metabolism, andDigestive Diseases, andthe Metabolism Branch, ABSTRACT Jejunal biopsy specimens from patients in that a P-T digest of casein (a protein not toxic in with gluten-sensitive enteropathy (GSE) (obtained dur- vivo to patients with GSE) had no effect on alkaline ing gluten challenge) as well as from normal individuals phosphatase increases in culture. Finally, these results and patients with other gastrointestinal abnormalities obtained with biopsy specimens taken from patients with were cultured in vitro for 48 h in the presence or ab- GSE in exacerbation were compared with results ob- sence of a peptic-tryptic digest (P-T digest) of gliadin. tained from patients with GSE in remission. Alkaline In the absence of gliadin the alkaline phosphatase ac- phosphatase activity of specimens obtained from the tivity in the biopsy specimens obtained from normal con- latter group of patients also increased during culture trol individuals increased from an initial value of 384+ but in this instance P-T digest of gliadin in the culture 83 U to a 48 h value of 561±151 U (mean+SD) (dif- medium had no significant inhibitory effect. ference significant at P<0.01). The initial alkaline In conclusion, the inhibitory effect of gliadin on in- phosphatase activity of specimens obtained from pa- testinal epithelial cells in organ culture represents an tients with GSE was strikingly lower than that of nor- in vitro model of gluten-sensitive enteropathy. Inasmuch mals, 117±79 U, and increased to a 48 h value of 399+ as this effect of gliadin is not seen in cultures of speci- 203 U (difference significant at P < 0.01). The bio- mens taken from patients in remission, it appears that chemical change in cultured biopsy specimens of GSE gliadin is not directly toxic to GSE jejunal mucosa per patients correlated with increases in thelength and regu- se, but rather toxicity requires the participation of an larity of brush borders of epithelial cells as seen with endogenous effector mechanism which must first be theelectron microscope. stimulated in vivo. In the presence ofa P-T digest of gliadin, the alkaline phosphatase activity of biopsy specimens of control in- INTRODUCTION dividuals increased from an initial value of 384±83 U to a 48 h value of 578±156
