An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


digest of gliadin, the alkaline phosphatase activity of biopsy specimens of control in- INTRODUCTION dividuals increased from an initial value of 384±83 U to a 48 h value of 578±156 U. In contrast, the alkaline Gluten-sensitive enteropathy (GSE)' is a disease of un- phosphatase activity of biopsy specimens of patients with certain etiology. It has been postulated that the dis- GSE in exacerbation showed a markedly diminished in- ease is due to the lack of an intestinal enzyme, allowing crease in activity during 48 h of culture; in this case the gliadin or degradation products of gliadin to accumulate initial activity was 117+79 U and the final activity was in the intestinal lumen or epithelial cell and produce di- 203±93 U. This inhibitory effect on increase of alkaline rect cellular damage (1). Alternatively, it has been sug- phosphatase activity during organ culture was specific gested that the disease is primarily due to an immuno- Received for publication 3 May 1973 and in revised form '-Abbreviations used in this paper: GSE, gluten-sensitive 15 October1973. enteropathy; P-T digest, peptic-tryptic digest. The Journal of Clinical Investigation Volume 53 February 1974-487-500 487 logic dysfunction of the intestinal mucosa and gliadin zyme activity in organ culture by gliadin represents an plays the role of an antigen which evokes an injurious in vitro model of gluten-sensitive enteropathy. Using local immune response (2). We have previously ob- this model we have studied the in vitro behavior of tained data which support the second hypothesis. Thus, biopsy specimens obtained from patients with GSE in we have shown that in patients with GSE, but not in exacerbation and obtained from patients with GSE in normal individuals, gluten challenge induces an increase remission. In these studies we have obtained evidence in the production of immunoglobulins within the gastro- that gluten is not directly toxic to the epithelial cells intestinal mucosa (3). Furthermore, a major part of of patients with GSE, but must first activate an endoge- the immunoglobulin increase is composed of anti-gliadin nous mechanism in vivo to produce a toxic effect. antibodies (4). These studies establish that immunologic events occur in patients with GSE at the site of tissue METHODS injury but do not provide information as to whether General outline of study. Intestinal (jejunal) biopsy this mechanism is a primary or secondary factor in the specimens were obtained from various patient groups and pathogenesis of disease or even
