An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


General outline of study. Intestinal (jejunal) biopsy this mechanism is a primary or secondary factor in the specimens were obtained from various patient groups and pathogenesis of disease or even if these events are re- controls. These specimens were placed into organ culture lated at all to the tissue injury seen. (in duplicate) for periods ranging from 24 to 72 h. Initially (at zero time) and during the course of organ culture, Further analysis of the pathologic process responsible the specimens were examined ultrastructurally as well as for gluten-sensitive enteropathy clearly awaits develop- by assay of disaccharidase and alkaline phosphatase ac- ment of in vitro systems which will allow one to con- tivities. The biopsy specimens in organ culture were studied trol the various possible pathogenetic elements. In this in the presence or absence of a peptic-tryptic digest (P-T paper we describe the behavior of intestinal biopsy speci- digest) of gliadin, a purified fraction of gliadin (a-glia- din), or a P-T digest of casein. Using this system biopsy mens obtained from patients with GSE, normal individu- specimens obtained from GSE patients after prolonged als, and patients with other diseases of the gastroin- periods on a gluten-free diet, biopsy specimens obtained testinal tract, when placed into organ culture with and from GSE patients after a period of in vivo gluten chal- without gliadin in the culture medium. We demonstrate lenge, and, lastly, biopsy specimens obtained from control patients were studied. that jejunal epithelial cells from normal controls and Patients. 11 patients with GSE (ages 9-68 yr) were patients with GSE display increased activities of alkaline studied. The diagnosis of GSE was made in each case by phosphatase (and other brush border enzymes) and a positive history of malabsorption syndrome, documented gluten restriction, a characteristic rise of IgA and IgM in organ culture free of gliadin. In contrast, jejunal epi- synthesis by jejunal biopsy specimens after oral challenge creases of alkaline phosphatase activity when cultured flattening of the intestinal villi and infiltration of the sub- in the presence of gliadin. The inhibition of rise of en- mucosa by plasma cells and lymphocytes. Eight patients were biopsied during remission and again during exacerba- tion after 7-14 days on an unrestricted (gluten-containing) TABLE I diet. Two patients were studied only during remission and one patient only during exacerbation. Disease activity Change in Alkaline Phosphatase Activity* in Intestinal was defined using clinical and laboratory criteria.
