An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


and either Clinical studies. Fecal fat excretion was evaluated by processed for electron microscopy as described below or collecting a 72-h stool sample from patients on a 100 g homogenized in 1 ml of 0.85% NaCl solution using a glass fat diet and measuring stool fat according to the method homogenizer. The homogenates were frozen with dry ice- of van der Kamer et al. (5). D-Xylose absorption was acetone, stored at -250C, and assayed within 5 days for evaluated by administering 25 g of the pentose and subse- enzyme activity. Aliquots of homogenate were also taken cuent measurement of xylose by the method of Roe and for protein determinations which were performed using a Rice (6) in a 5-h urine collection and a 2-h blood modification of the method of Lowry et al. (12). On the specimen. Serum carotene was determined by extraction of average, 0.1 mg of tissue protein was present in each serum with alcohol and petroleum ether (7). culture dish. Intestinal biopsy. Intestinal biopsies were obtained with Electron microscopy. Specimens were fixed for. electron a four hole Rubin tube biopsy instrument positioned fluoro- microscopy immediately after being obtained or after a scopically at the ligament of Treitz (8). An average of three specimens was obtained with each biopsy. The biopsy specimens were placed immediately into Krebs-Ringer bi- TABLE III carbonate buffer (pH 7.3) (4°C), rinsed three times in TotalAlkalinePhosphataseActivityin Intestinal Biopsy the same buffer, and cut into small pieces, each approxi- Specimens in Patientswith GSEin Exacerbation mately 1-2 mm in diameter. Several of the resulting bits of tissue were processed as described below to obtain zero time values for enzyme activity and for study of morphol- Activity* ogy; the remaining bits of tissue were placed into organ 48h cul P t r u e r p e. aration of proteins. Peptic-tryptic digests of gliadin Patient 0 h 48h +gliadin and casein were prepared according to the method of F. F. 49 58 24 Frazer et al. (9). Gliadin treated in this manner has been L. H. 19 56 23 shown by Frazer et al. to cause exacerbation of jejunal M. N. 26 83 24 disease in GSE patients in vivo. A water-soluble a-gliadin was prepared according to the method of Bernardin et al. (10). * 1unit = 1,umolPNPliberated pertotal proteinper minute. Organ culture. Organ cultures were performed using Eachpointisthe meanofthreeseparatestudies,eachdonein a modification of the methods of Browning
