An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


obtained using boiled homogenates served as the epithelial cells from the lamina propria was noted. blanks and were subtracted from values obtained using un- In addition, occasional nests ofnecrotic cells were visible. boiled homogenates. A unit of disaccharidase activity repre- After 72 h of organ culture there was evidence of more sented 1 gmole of glucose liberated per gram tissue protein widespread cellular necrosis. per minute. Electron microscopy of biopsies obtained from patients Alkaline phosphatase was assayed according to the method of Bessey, Lowry, and Brock (14). The standard reaction with gluten-sensitive enteropathy. Specimens from three mixture contained 50 ,ul of diluted or undiluted homogenate patients with gluten-sensitive enteropathy were examined and 200 /Al of 0.15 mM p-nitrophenyl phosphate (Sigma, with electron microscopy. Specimens fixed immediately St. Louis, Mo.) in glycine buffer (0.0625 M, pH 10.3). after biopsy were characteristic in all three: the epi- The glycine buffer contained magnesium chloride (0.625 mM) and zinc acetate (0.125 mM). After 10-30 min incu- thelial cell brush borders were irregular and shortened bation at 37°C in a shaking water bath, the reaction was (measuring an average of 0.4-0.5 nm in length as com- stopped by the addition of 1.25 ml of 0.02 N NaOH. The pared to 1.0 nm in normal individuals). In addition, the values obtained using homogenates first inactivated with glycocalyceswerenearlyabsent and mitochondriawere in 0.02 N NaOH and incubated at 370C for the same time were subtracted from the values obtained usinlg active varying states of degeneration; finally, numerous lysoso- homogenate. A unit of phosphatase activity represented 1 mes and lipid lakes were seen within the epithelial cells. ,smole of p-nitrophenol liberated per minute per gram tissue After 24 h of culture, specimens obtained from two pa- protein. tients (M. N. and F. F.) revealed several dramatic In both disaccharidase and alkaline phosphatase assays changes. In these cases, the epithelial cell brush borders specimens were measured at dilutions which provided values falling on linear portions of the standard curves. were more regular and longer than those of zero time Statistical analysis. Statistical analysis of data was done specimens (measuring an aeverage of 0.9 nm in length) noted, were small or absent, and the terminal bar areas RESULTS and golgi zones showed more normal organization. Mito- Electronmicroscopy of biopsyspecimlenls obtainedfrom chondrial abnormalities as well as cuboidal cell shapes normal individuals. Examination of specimens obtained persisted. In the cultured biopsy specimens of
