An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


showed more normal organization. Mito- Electronmicroscopy of biopsyspecimlenls obtainedfrom chondrial abnormalities as well as cuboidal cell shapes normal individuals. Examination of specimens obtained persisted. In the cultured biopsy specimens of a third pa- from normal individuals cultured for 24 and 48 h (Fig. tient (C. C.), microvilli were morphologically unchanged 1) showed that the epithelial cells of the specimens main- during the 24 h of culture, remaining 0.6 nm in length; tained their integrity and orientation, antI that the brush however, some improvement in subcellular architecture FIGURE 1 Electron micrograph of an epithelial cell of a normal control individual (K. D.). (A) Brush border region examined just after intestinal biopsy; (B) brush border region after 24 h in organ culture. X 30,000. Brush border morphology is unchanged during the period of organ culture. In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy 491 FIGURE 2A Electron micrograph of epithelial cell obtained from patient with gluten-sensitive enteropathy (M. N.). Brush border region of epithelial cell just after intestinal biopsy. was evidenced by reduced penetration of the terminal bar of 384±83 U2 to a mean 48 h value of 561±151 U areabyendoplasmic reticulum. (meant1 SD) (Fig. 4, left panel). This increase was Intestinal alkaline phosphatase activities during organ statistically significant (P<0.01) and represented a culture. Alkaline phosphatase activities of biopsy speci- fractional increase of 46%. In specimens obtained from mens changed significantly during the course of organ patients with GSE (15 studies in nine patients), alka- line phosphatase activities were initially much lower than culture. Initial studies were undertaken to demonstrate those of specimens from normal controls and increased the time course of these changes. As shown in Table I, during culture to levels normally found in normal speci- alkaline phosphatase activity normalized for protein in mens at zero time. In this case, the enzyme value in- biopsy specimens underwent an increase which was ap- creased from a mean initial value of 117±79 U to a parent at 24 h of culture, peaked at 48 h of culture, and mean 48 h value of 399±203 U (Fig. 4, middle panel). was declining at 72 h of culture. Because the peak in- This increase was again statistically significant at P < crease was seen at 48 h, most studies were performed at 0.01 and represented a fractional increase of 241%. The thistime interval. fractional increase in the alkaline phosphatase value in In specimens obtained from normal
