An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


ble VII). Thus, an in vitro effect ofgliadin is not seen in initial alkaline phosphatase of the remission group was any patient with a low initial level of alkaline phos- lower than the mean of the normal group), a fact which phatase in the mucosa and appears to be an effect specific would tend to bias the study against the results obtained. for patients with GSE. Three normal individuals were studied twice, once In vitro effects of a-gliadin and a peptic-tryptic digest after a 3-wk period on a gluten-free diet and again after of casein. Specimens from two patients with active a 2-wk gluten challenge. No effect of gliadin on increase GSE, three patients with GSE in remission, and two of jejunal tissue enzymes was observed either before or control patients were cultured in the presence of after the gluten challenge (Table VI). Thus, dietary a-gliadin, a water-soluble derivative of gluten prepared manipulation per se does not appear to account for the without the use of proteolytic enzymes (10). a-Gliadin results obtained with GSE patients. inhibited the increase in alkaline phosphatase occurring In vitro effect of gliadin: Patients with gastrointesti- in cultures of patients with active GSE, but had no nal disease unrelated to gluten sensitivity. Jejunal bi- effect on the rise in enzyme activity in tissue of control opsy specimens obtained from three patients with malab- subjects or patients in remission (Table VIII). As a further control, the effect of a P-T digest of TABLE VI casein (1. 2 mg/ml) on cultured jejunal tissue was stud- Effect ofDieton IntestinalAlkalinePhosphataseActivity ied. The P-T digest of casein did not affect 48-h enzyme duringOrgan Culture ofJejunalBiopsies of increases in four out of five of the active GSE patients' Normal ControlIndividuals biopsies, whereas parallel cultures demonstrated the in- hibitory effect of a P-T digest of gliadin (Table IX). Alkaline phosphataseactivity* In the one instance where an effect of casein was ob- Normalcontrol individuals (3) 0h 48h 48h +gliadin served, the protein concentration used was 10 times that normally used for gliadin (i.e., 12 mg/ml). No effect of Gluten-free diet 454±55 607±141 614±127 Unrestricted diet 470±63 679±121 659±191 casein was noted in cultures of seven control patients' biopsies or biopsies of three GSE patients in remission. * 1 unit = 1 timol PNP liberated per gram protein per These experiments with casein and a-gliadin demon- minute. strate that the inhibitory effect of the P-T
