An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


(Fig. 5). enzyme changes during organ culture are a general phe- In tissue obtained from GSE patients and cultured for nomenon, although alkaline phosphatase activity under- 48 h, only trehalase increased significantly (P < 0.01 goes the most easily discerned changes. NORMALS ACTIVE GSE GSE IN REMISSION USucrase I -1 MTrehalase 0 48 48 0 48 48 0 48 48 0 48 48 04848 04848 h h h h hhh hh h hhh hh h h h h + +1 + +1 + + Gliadin Gliodir Gliadin Gliadir Gliodin Gliodin FIGURE 5 Disaccharidase activities during jejunal tissue culture of biopsies from normal controls (left panel), patients with GSE in exacerbation (middle panel), and patients with GSE in remission (right panel). Mean values for sucrase and trehalase are shown initially andafter48hof culture with or without gliadin. 498 Falchuk, Gebhard, Sessoms, and Strober DISCUSSION culture, which apparently was not possible in vivo. An explanation for this phenomenon which is consistent Organ culture of intestinal biopsy tissue has previously with the maturation concept mentioned above is that, been described by Browning and Trier (11). These in- in vivo, gliadin prevents the differentiation of immature vestigators showed that intestinal epithelial cells can be intestinal epithelial cells or else is toxic only to more placed into organ culture and maintained with near nor- differentiated cells. In the gliadin-free environment of mal morphology and functional activity for at least 24 h. the organ culture, cells are free to differentiate and In another study, Trier and Browning showed that in- reach maturity and then synthesize normal amounts of testinal biopsy specimens from three patients with active enzyme. In this view, gliadin ingestion in GSE leads to gluten-sensitive enteropathy demonstrated increased the development of a population of immature, but mi- incorporation of tritiated thymidine, but showed more totically active cells that have a restricted capacity to normal rates of incorporation when studied after a synthesize certain enzymes. A second possibility is that gluten-free period, suggesting a normalization of cellu- gliadin exerts a toxicity on epithelial cells of GSE pa- lar turnover upon cessation of exposure of gluten pep- tients regardless of their state of differentiation and that tides (20). Finally, Trier and Browning showed that, in in the gliadin-free environment of organ culture, cells at least one instance, epithelial cells of a specimen taken can develop normally or even recover from damage in- from a patient with GSE
