An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


gliadin-free environment of organ culture, cells at least one instance, epithelial cells of a specimen taken can develop normally or even recover from damage in- from a patient with GSE underwent morphologic im- flicted during their in vivo life. However, this latter provement during the period of culture (20). possibility is less consistent with the idea put forth above In the present investigation we have used the organ that epithelial cells mature in organ culture and, further- culture methodology to develop an in vitro model of more, does not take into account the fact that normal gluten-sensitive enteropathy. This model has, as its specimens undergo an increase in alkaline phosphatase basis, the finding that epithelial cells from all patient content during the culture period. groups increase their content of alkaline phosphatase as In any case, culture of biopsy tissue from patients well as at least one disaccharidase (sucrase) during or- with active GSE in the presence of gliadin is accom- gan culture. However, in the presence of gliadin this in- panied by a greatly diminished or even nil increase in crease in enzyme activity is inhibited in specimens ob- alkaline phosphatase activity of biopsy specimens. tained from patients with active gluten-sensitive enter- Thus, the effect of gliadin in organ culture is simi- opathy, whereas specimens from controls are not so in- lar to its effect in vivo and the in vitro prevention hibited. In providing an explanation of these bio- of a rise in alkaline phosphatase activity by gliadin con- chemical effects during organ culture, it must first stitutes an in vitro model of gluten-sensitive enteropathy. be pointed out that changes in the enzyme content Several inferences concerning the mechanism of glu- of epithelial cells are a normal accompaniment of ten-sensitive-enteropathy can be drawn from this model. the maturation of cells as they emerge from intesti- In the first place, gliadin appears to be necessary to the nal crypts and ascend the intestinal villi. Thus Moog, cellular toxicity presumed to occur in GSE, making it Etzler, and Grey (21) have shown, in a series of stud- unlikely that GSE is mediated by autoantibodies as in ies, that cells in crypts contain less alkaline phosphatase the autoimmune diseases. If such were the case, auto- than cells at villous tips. In addition, Brown (22) has antibodies elaborated by the gastrointestinal mucosa shown that microvilli are poorly developed in crypts and would be
