An In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy
KEYWORDS: patients, culture, gse, gliadin, alkaline, specimens, phosphatase, activity, obtained, biopsy, organ, alkaline phosphatase, tissue, normal, effect


the case, auto- than cells at villous tips. In addition, Brown (22) has antibodies elaborated by the gastrointestinal mucosa shown that microvilli are poorly developed in crypts and would be capable of destructive interaction with self- become progressively longer and more numerous as the components in the absence of gliadin and the requirement epithelial cells move up the crypts and villi as a result for the presence of gliadin for cell toxicity demonstrated of differential proliferation. Thus, it is reasonable to in these experiments would not be necessary. assume that the changes observed during organ culture In the second place, the in vitro "toxicity" of gliadin in specimens from all groups of patients, e.g., the in- P-T digest was observed in biopsy tissue obtained from crease in alkaline phosphatase activities, are the result patients with GSE in exacerbation but not from patients of the normal maturational process so that the popula- with GSE in remission. This strongly implies that glia- tion of cells in the organ culture at the end of the cul- din does not adversely affect tissue directly, but must tural period contain a greater number (on a weight first activate or trigger a host (endogenous) effector basis) of more mature, alkaline phosphatase-rich, villus- mechanism of toxicity. In the present studies, this acti- like cells. vation was presumably brought about by the ingestion This brings us to the fact that the mean initial alkaline of gluten in vivo, i.e., by the gluten challenge, and the phosphatase content of specimens obtained from GSE patients was far lower than the mean initial alkaline toxic effect was seen only after the gluten challenge (or phosphatase content of normal control specimens and in anattenuated formin patientswith partial remissions). that GSE specimens underwent an increase in alkaline A prime candidate for such an endogenous effector phosphatase content once they were placed into organ mechanism is the local immunologic mechanism. In this In Vitro Model of Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy 499 sponses are evoked at local mucosal sites after gluten liam Heinemann Ltd., London. 3d edition. 509. 8. Brandborg, L. L., C. E. Rubin, and W. E. Quinton. challenge (4). These responses were demonstrated in 1959. A multipurpose instrument for suction biopsy of jejunal biopsy specimens maintained in short-term cul- the esophagus, stomach, small bowel, and colon. Gas- ture in vitro using tissue obtained from patients with troenterology. 37: 1. GSE in exacerbation but not from
