Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


Review Microbiota-gut-brain axis impairment in the pathogenesis of stroke: implication as a potent therapeutic target Mubarak MUHAMMAD1, Supaporn MUCHIMAPURA2, 3 and Jintanaporn WATTANATHORN2, 3* Muang District, Khon Kaen 40002, Thailand Khon Kaen 40002, Thailand 3Integrative Complementary Alternative Medicine Research and Development Center in the Research Institute for Human High Thailand The human microbiota-gut-brain axis has an enormous role in the maintenance of homeostasis and health. Over the last two decades, it has received concerted research attention and focus due to a rapidly emerging volume of evidence that has established that impairment within the microbiota-gut-brain axis contributes to the development and progression of various diseases. Stroke is one of the entities identified to be associated with microbiota-gut- of a non-nervous factor from gut microbiota that can alter the course of stroke presents a novel strategy towards the search for a therapeutic silver bullet against stroke. Hence, the aim herein, was to focus on the involvement of microbiota-gut-brain axis impairment in the pathogenesis stroke as well as elucidate its implications as a potent therapeutic target against stroke. The findings of studies to date have revealed and extended the role and pre-clinical perspectives targets within the microbiota-gut-brain axis and successfully modulated the outcome of stroke. It was concluded that the microbiota-gut-brain axis stands as potent target to salvage the neurons in the ischemic penumbra for the treatment of stroke. Assessment of the microbiota profile and its metabolites status holds enormous clinical potentials as a non-invasive indicator for the early diagnosis and prognosis of stroke. Key words : microbiota, gut-brain axis, stroke, therapy INTRODUCTION stroke, which accounts for 85% of all strokes, and hemorrhagic stroke, which accounts for 15% . A therapeutic silver bullet Stroke, also termed a cerebrovascular accident, is a non- against stroke is required and is still being researched for a communicable disease and constitutes the world’s second most several reasons: The two approved strategies, consisting of frequent cause of mortality after cardiovascular diseases . It thrombolysis using recombinant tissue plasminogen activator has been estimated to impact nearly 13.7 million people per year (rTPA) and thrombectomy, available for the treatment of acute around the globe . About one-third of this figure translates ischemic stroke are only accessible to about 5% of patients due into mortalities, while another one-third represents stroke to their highly restrictive time windows of application . Also, survivors with residual functional deficits, which constitute it has been estimated
