Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


ways through which it down signaling pathway, which indicates the regulation of could be modulated is critical to the search for more effective, gastrointestinal homeostasis and function by the nervous system, novel strategies against stroke. and a bottom-up signaling pathway, which directs the sway of the Microbiota is a general term defined as the collective gastrointestinal system impact on the central nervous system . community of microorganisms that inhabit the human/animal From the top-down regulation mode of the gut-brain axis, it body. Thus, it encompasses microbes that colonize the skin and is known that the nervous system control of the gastrointestinal other mucosal cavities, such as the oral, nasal, reproductive, system encompasses three levels neural control, the autonomic pulmonary, and gastrointestinal cavities. However, it is the nervous system (ANS), enteric nervous system (ENS), and gastrointestinal microbiota (gut microbiota) that has received central nervous system (CNS). ANS sympathetic control concerted attention and focus within the last two decades. This operates via the pre-vertebral sympathetic nerves (splanchnic is partly because there is an extraordinary density of trillions and pelvic spinal nerves) and vagal parasympathetic nerve, both of microbiota in the gut, and partly because of the bidirectional of which exert autonomous functions (such as motility, blood communication of the gut microbiota with the brain via the flow, and secretions of glands) on the gastrointestinal system microbiota-gut-brain axis, which has increasingly been identified by antagonistic, synergistic, or independent functions . The A plethora of lines of emerging experimental evidence from self-sufficiently regulate autonomous functions at the level of the established the bilateral interaction between the brain lesion in of fluids between the gut and its lumen. This self-sufficiently stroke and the gut microbiota via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. gives the ENS a unique feature of being the single compartment This pathway axis modulates the occurrence and development of the peripheral nervous system that possesses extensive of myriad diseases and therefore provides a direction for rapidly neural plexuses and circuits that can independently regulate evolving research into therapeutics against diseases. For instance, gastrointestinal functions . microbiota-gut-brain axis impairment and dysregulation, referred The CNS components that affect the gastrointestinal tract to as dysbiosis, have been strongly implicated in the pathogenesis include the hypothalamus, nucleus of the solitary tract in and progression of not only neurodegenerative disorders such as the medulla, medial prefrontal cortex, and amygdala, among Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, and multiple sclerosis others . It
