Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


solitary tract in and progression of not only neurodegenerative disorders such as the medulla, medial prefrontal cortex, and amygdala, among Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, and multiple sclerosis others . It is known that the descending tract for the ANS but also neuropsychiatric disorders such as autism spectrum originates from the hypothalamus and that fibers that control disorder, schizophrenia, and major depressive disorder . the thoracolumbar outflow of the sympathetic nervous system Numerous reviews have been carried out that buttress the extend from the anterior hypothalamic nuclei, while descending link between the microbiota-gut-brain axis and brain-associated parasympathetic fibers that control the craniosacral outflow of disorders and diseases [30–37]. These studies have focused on the parasympathetic nervous system extend from the posterior general disorders of the brain and lacked a specific focus on hypothalamic nucleus. Thus, the CNS controls the activity of the stroke as an entity. On the other hand, the review studies that ANS, and the activity of the ENS in turn is modulated by the have focused exclusively on stroke and the microbiota [38–44] ANS, creating a neuronal feedback pathway that is intricately have all been insufficient with respect to the rapidly evolving fundamental to the bidirectional communication of the gut-brain explosion of evidence concerning interventions that exert effects axis. A typical illustration of the functionality of this neural on stroke by modulating the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Hence, it connection that regulates the activity of the gastrointestinal was desirable to elucidate the concept of the microbiota-gut-brain system can be seen in cephalic reflex action, local myenteric axis and bring it up to speed with respect to the various preclinical reflex and vagovagal reflex . One of the conspicuous and clinical evidences for targeting stroke via the microbiota-gut- endocrinal pathways in gut-brain axis communication is the brain axis. The aim herein was to focus on the involvement of hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In response to microbiota-gut-brain axis impairment in the pathogenesis stroke physical, physiological, or psychological stressors, the HPA as well as elucidate its implications as a potent therapeutic target axis becomes primed to release corticotropin-releasing factor against stroke. (CRF) from the hypothalamus, this subsequently excites the release adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion from the pituitary gland, and then ACTH leads to the release of cortisol hormone from adrenal glands. Cortisol affects many changes in various organs, including the gastrointestinal tract and brain itself to propagate cellular responses to stress. doi: ©2023 BMFH
