Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


release of cortisol hormone from adrenal glands. Cortisol affects many changes in various organs, including the gastrointestinal tract and brain itself to propagate cellular responses to stress. doi: ©2023 BMFH Press MICROBIOTA GUT-BRAIN AXIS AND STROKE 145 The bottom-up signaling of the gut-brain axis involves activation of glial cells, regulation of T-cell homeostasis, and the intestinal cells and the microbes within the gut, which are release of cytokines/chemokines by these immune cells . referred to as microbiota. The gut microbiota and its metabolites There is emerging robust evidence about the role of constitute a major key drivers in the bottom-up signaling pathway microbiota-gut-brain axis impairment as one of the key factor that communicates with the brain, hence the term microbiota- in the pathogenesis of stroke. Interactions between the brain gut-brain axis . Intestinal cells such as enterochromaffin and gut microbiota during stroke occur via the microbiota- and enteroendocrine cells produce bioactive molecules such as gut-brain axis and follow top-down and bottom-up signaling serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), cholecystokinin (CCK), pathways. Brain lesions due to stroke either affect areas of the neuropeptides Y, ghrelin, and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP- brain that control the ANS or the HPA axis, which in turn perturb 1), and these substances act as hormones, neurotransmitters, normal gut microbiota-host interaction . The consequential neuromodulators, or neurotrophic factors. 5-HT is synthesized changes from this perturbation of the gut include a reduction in from the essential amino acid precursor tryptophan by gut motility, increase in gut permeability, and alteration in the enterochromaffin cells; 5-HT in turn mediates serotoninergic access of luminal bacteria and antigens to immune cells in the signaling in the brain, thereby maintaining brain functions, either gut. Another way by which stroke affects the gut microbiota by affecting exogenous primary afferent neuron cell bodies itself is through immune signaling, in which stroke lesions result in or through its precursor tryptophan, which can cross the blood- the suppression of peripheral immune cells by decreasing their brain barrier (BBB) . 5-HT also mediates the vascular numbers and functions; this is referred to as stroke-induced tone of the CNS by modulating the nitrergic neurons to the immunodepression. This systemic effect of stroke affects the smooth muscle tissue of the vascular wall . integrity of the gut mucosal barrier, thus allowing the translocation The gut microbiota is composed of an exceptional arrangement of gut microbiota to the blood stream and lymphatic organs . of
