Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


of the gut mucosal barrier, thus allowing the translocation The gut microbiota is composed of an exceptional arrangement of gut microbiota to the blood stream and lymphatic organs . of symbiotic microbes within the gut consisting of bacteria, fungi, The major drivers of bottom-up signaling under the conditions archaea, viruses, and protozoa, and together with the collective of stroke are the gut microbiota and its metabolites, as well genomes of its constituent microbes, collectively referred to as as molecules from intestinal cells. Biomolecules from the the microbiome. It comprehensibly plays a monumental role gastrointestinal tract, such as SCFAs, gamma amino-butyric their balance referred to as dysbiosis, have been convincingly of bile acids, can interact with the brain with stroke lesions at implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous diseases [56–58]. three levels. The first is through their cognate receptors in the representing about ten times the total number of human cells in to the brain via afferent vagal pathways. The second is through the body, and the vast majority of the microbiota are bacteria direct invasion through the BBB by molecules such as SCFAs dominated by three specific phyla, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and from the circulation. The third is through the indirect effects Actinobacteria, that cumulatively constitute over 90% of the gut of amplifying the regional and systemic effects of stroke- microbiota . Although there is variation in gut microbiota induced immunosuppression impact on the immune system and among populations, the three phyla of bacteria remain the core inflammation by gut bacteria and their component endotoxins dominant microbes among individuals. The established traditional . These gut bacteria and their component endotoxins, such roles of the microbiota include digestion of food fibers, priming as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), have also been documented to of innate immunity to identify potentially harmful pathogens, overwhelm the integrity of the cerebral blood-brain barrier . and production of enzymes that facilitate biotransformation Figure 1 shows a schematic representation illustrating the of ingested food . Nevertheless, the rapidly evolving bidirectional interaction between stroke and gut microbiota via explosion in the amount of evidence from microbiota-gut-brain the gut-brain axis. The impact of the brain lesion due to stroke axis studies has now extended such roles to other imperative together with the associated stroke-induced immunosuppression functions, such as the regulation of brain development, behavior, cause negative effects on microbiota via top-down signaling. and functions, as well as immune cell homeostasis. Due to these
