Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


stroke-induced immunosuppression functions, such as the regulation of brain development, behavior, cause negative effects on microbiota via top-down signaling. and functions, as well as immune cell homeostasis. Due to these The effects include post-stroke dysbiosis, intestinal immune critical roles, the microbiota has been suggested by various dysfunction, and compromise of the gut barrier. The resultant researchers to be a ‘second brain’ . consequences from the gut microbiota range from up-regulation The microbiota activity within the gastrointestinal system of pro-inflammatory immune cells (T cells) and their secreted produces metabolites including short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), cytokines, to increases in the permeability of microbes and their metabolites of tryptophan, and secondary bile acids, among components. These collectively in turn lead to the exacerbation of others . However, SCFAs (butyrate, acetate, and propionate) stroke injury by increasing neuro-inflammation and disrupting the are compounds with one to six carbon atoms that constitute the integrity of the BBB. mainstream metabolic products of the gut microbiota . SCFAs enter the circulation and directly enter the brain to signal numerous GUT-BRAIN AXIS IMPAIRMENT AS A THERAPEUTIC pathways that mediate brain functions. These include maintaining TARGET IN STROKE the integrity of the blood-brain barrier by mediating tight junction proteins, acting as a source of biomolecules for energy supply, Table 1 depicts a summary of studies that used various control of serotoninergic transmission through control of the interventions to modulate stroke outcome via the microbiota-gut- activity of tryptophan hydroxylase (an enzyme responsible brain axis. The table shows the diversity of microbiome-based for the synthesis of 5-HT), and activation of endogenous brain interventions that have successfully modulated the microbiota- neurotrophic factors . The immunological mechanisms of gut-brain axis and affected stroke outcome. These interventions SCFA-mediated actions in the brain include the maturation and ranged from bacteriotherapy-based interventions in the form of doi: ©2023 BMFH Press M. Muhammad, et al. 146 Fig. 1. Schematic representation illustrating bidirectional interaction between stroke and the gut microbiota via the gut-brain axis. transplantation (FMT) to traditional medicines in the form of a cerebrovascular disorder, stroke has well-established record of tanhuo decoction, a combination of puerariae lobatae radix and being improved using natural products . With the prevailing chuanxiong rhizome, and to natural products such as resveratrol irrefutable evidence of the involvement of the gut-brain axis in and baicalin. The diversity of different categories here also points the pathogenesis of stroke, natural products represent a promising to
