Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


irrefutable evidence of the involvement of the gut-brain axis in and baicalin. The diversity of different categories here also points the pathogenesis of stroke, natural products represent a promising to the importance in terms of the prospect of combining two or factor that could modulate the microbiota and impact the outcome more categories to synergistically work together and improve of stroke. stroke outcome. The diet is the major source natural products that determine Additionally, assessment of the microbiota profile and status the gut microbiota composition and function . The of microbiota metabolites holds enormous clinical potentials as relationship between the diet and gut microbiota has the potential a non-invasive indicator for the early diagnosis and prognosis to be associated with stroke from the perspective of both of stroke. This is particularly essential considering the fact prevention and treatment. The presence of stroke risk factors that diagnostic techniques for stroke can be expensive and, in accounts for more than 90% of all stroke etiologies . These assessment of the microbiota profile and status of microbiota age, sex, and genetic predisposition, and modifiable factors, metabolites among stroke patients could provide cost-effective including hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, alcohol inferences about stroke. A previous study compared the gut are associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic plaque microbiota statuses of acute ischemic stroke patients with those formation within the blood vessels and consequent thrombus of matched healthy controls and demonstrated that the stroke formation and occlusion. Modifiable risk factors can be changed, dysbiosis index (SDI) formulated from assessment of the gut and this forms the core pivot in stroke prevention strategies. microbiota composition was significantly correlated with patient Modifiable risk factors are inherent in a condition referred to as outcome . metabolic syndrome (MetS), a term that encompasses a cluster of conditions associated with glucose intolerance, central obesity, NATURAL PRODUCTS IN THE GUT MICROBIOTA dyslipidemia, and hypertension . AND STROKE It has been established recently that a gut microbiota-derived metabolite, trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), is the major factor Natural products in the form dietary therapy, nutraceutical in the development atherosclerosis and thrombosis [77–79]. supplements, and edible medicinal plants have been used There exists a meta-organismal pathway in which trimethylamine doi: ©2023 BMFH Press MICROBIOTA GUT-BRAIN AXIS AND STROKE 147 Table 1. Studies that successfully utilized various interventions to modulate stroke outcome via the microbiota-gut-brain axis Intervention Study design Major findings Proposed mechanism Traditional Chinese medicine
