Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


AXIS AND STROKE 147 Table 1. Studies that successfully utilized various interventions to modulate stroke outcome via the microbiota-gut-brain axis Intervention Study design Major findings Proposed mechanism Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM): Case-control study involving acute THD treatment showed better THD exerts effects via modulation and the characteristics of gut THD regulates several gut bacteria microbiota. to lower microbial metabolites such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO). Gut microbiota from mice exposed to Germ-free C57BL/6J mice with Microbiota from I/R colonized Cerebral I/R injury-induced dysbiosis is ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury cerebral I/R injury induced by mice led to decreased functional associated with the brain via neuronal bilateral common carotid artery connectivity strengths of the plasticity and neuro-inflammation. occlusion (BCCO) cingulate cortex, hippocampus, and thalamus. Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) Specific pathogen-free C57 mice FMT led to amelioration of ICH-induced dysbiosis was ameliorated from healthy mice exposed to stereotaxic intracerebral functional deficits and neuro- by FMT via the maintenance of T-cell hemorrhage (ICH) inflammation caused by ICH. homeostasis. Synbiotic consisting of probiotics MCAO in aged mice Significant reduction in functional Through restoration of stroke-induced and a prebiotic. Probiotics: SCFA- impairment, as well as significant SCFA impairments and consequent producing probiotics consisting of attenuation of neuro-inflammation restoration of SCFA-mediated functions, Bifidobacterium longum, Clostridium markers. such as the regulation of T-cell symbiosum, Faecalibacterium homeostasis, thereby enhancing host prausnitzii and Limosilactobacillus immunity and gut barrier integrity. fermentum. Prebiotic: inulin Baicalin (flavonoid) C57BL/6J mice exposed to repeated A baicalin-mediated Reduced TMAO activity provided ischemia reperfusion injury by decrease in the microbiota- neuro-protection by attenuating neuro bilateral common carotid artery dependent metabolite TMAO inflammation and improved cognition, occlusion (BCCO) (trimethylamine-N-oxide) was short-term memory, LTP, and the plasticity observed in plasma. of hippocampal neurons. Postbiotics: Synthetic short-chain fatty Specific pathogen-free C57BL/6J SCFA supplementation led to Microbiota- derived SCFA molecules acids (SCFAs) mice were exposed to MCAO reversal of low stroke-induced exert their effect in the brain via the SCFA concentrations as well modulation of immune cells and as consequent improvements neuroplasticity by influencing the gut- in behavioral recovery, cortical brain axis. connectivity, and microglial function. Resveratrol (natural product) C57BL/6 mice exposed to a cerebral Resveratrol-treated mice showed Resveratrol exerts its effect through I/R injury induced by middle a decrease in infarct volume and attenuation of the cerebral ischemia- cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) small intestinal pro-inflammatory induced compromise in intestinal integrity cytokines expression. as well as modulation of the intestinal
