Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


in infarct volume and attenuation of the cerebral ischemia- cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) small intestinal pro-inflammatory induced compromise in intestinal integrity cytokines expression. as well as modulation of the intestinal immune cell-mediated inflammatory response, to consequently ameliorate pro-inflammatory cytokine-mediated BBB disruption and neuro-inflammation. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM): Rat subjected to MCAO The combination concoction led Through modulation of intestinal bacteria combination of puerariae lobatae radix to reparation of stroke-induced that promote neuroprotection. (PLR) and chuanxiong rhizoma (CXR) neurological impairments, dysbiosis, and intestinal barrier disruption. Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) C57BL/6 mice with cerebral Stroke produced gut dysbiosis The observed benefit was via stabilization from the distal colon in young and ischemia surgically induced by in both young and aged mice. of gut barrier integrity, modulation of aged mice middle cerebral artery occlusion However, young mouse neuro-inflammatory cytokine production, (MCAO) microbiota improved outcomes of and regulation of adaptive immune cells. stroke in aged mice, while aged- mouse microbiota impaired stroke outcomes in young mice. Antibiotics: cocktail of 5 antibiotics C57BL/6J mice with focal cerebral Microbiota-depleted mice Dysbiosis affected the stroke outcome by consisting of ampicillin, vancomycin, ischemia induced by middle cerebral produced by pretreatment with altering the intestinal barrier integrity. ciprofloxacin, imipenem, and artery occlusion (MCAO) antibiotics showed a decreased metronidazole survival rate after MCAO. Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) of Specific-pathogen-free C57BL/6 Altered intestinal flora resulted Dysbiosis resulted in alteration of immune extracts from cecal contents of two mice subjected to transient focal in effects on stroke outcome by homeostasis by suppressing the trafficking donor mice. Antibiotics: amoxicillin/ cerebral ischemia induced by inducing changes in immune of effector T cells from the gut to the clavulanic acid, as well as vancomycin MCAO homeostasis. leptomeninges after stroke. pretreatment prior to MCAO TCM: traditional Chinese medicine; THD: tanhuo decoction; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; TMAO: trimethylamine N-oxide; FMT: fecal microbiota transplanta- tion; I/R: ischemia-reperfusion; BCCO: bilateral common carotid artery occlusion; LTP: long-term potentiation; ICH: intracerebral hemorrhage; SCFAs: short-chain fatty acids; MCAO: middle cerebral artery occlusion; PLR: puerariae lobatae radix; CXR: chuanxiong rhizome. doi: ©2023 BMFH Press M. Muhammad, et al. 148 (TMA) is synthesized as a by-product of gut microbiota an integral part of evolving interventions that modulate stroke metabolism of dietary nutrients, such as the phosphatidylcholine, outcome via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Development of two choline, carnitine, and betaine found abundantly in red meat and or more appropriate combinations of natural products that are rich eggs. This
