Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


outcome via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Development of two choline, carnitine, and betaine found abundantly in red meat and or more appropriate combinations of natural products that are rich eggs. This TMA precursor enters the liver via the portal circulation in fibers, polyphenols, or fermented product that can modulate and is further converted into TMAO by a family of endogenous microbiota holds enormous potential for both the prevention and liver enzymes called flavin monooxygenases (FMOs) . treatment of stroke. The use of natural products in combination Several natural products have been widely recognized to with prebiotics, probiotics, synbiotics or postbiotics that can modulate gut microbiota and influence health in human in vivo mediate TMAO metabolites could also be a potent strategy for and in vitro studies. For instance, polyphenol-rich diets , therapeutics against stroke. an edible leguminous mung bean (Vignaradiata L.) supplement Figure 2 shows a schematic illustration of the meta-organismal , blueberry proanthocyanidins , a wasabi supplement pathway involving the gut microbiota and hepatocytes. The , polyphenols rich in high-quality extra-virgin olive accumulation of conditions rooted in metabolic syndrome oil in combination with a Mediterranean diet , sulfated leads to perturbation of the gut microbiota balance (dysbiosis). polysaccharides from the flesh of Callosobruchus chinensis , This result in an abnormal increase in the proportion of TMA- cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon) fruits , apple procyanidin producing bacteria, which generates the metabolite TMA that polyphenols , resveratrol polyphenol , a supplement sequentially gets further converted into TMAO in the liver by mixture of quercetin and catechin polyphenols , dietary fiber the action of FMOs. TMAO is associated with the development from Apple-derived pectin , a dietary quercetin , and of atherosclerosis and consequent thrombus formation, thereby the phytochemical allicin phytochemical from garlic all increasing the risk of the development of stroke. Natural products modulate gut microbiota and confer improvements in metabolic possess the potentiality to prevent stroke by modulating gut the promising role of natural products in stroke prevention. The role of natural products in the treatment of stroke by CONCLUSION modulating gut microbiota is only just emerging. Dou et al. investigated whether modulation of the gut-brain axis The findings discussed herein provide insights to further by resveratrol (a natural polyphenol) could exert a neuro- establish that microbiota-gut-brain axis impairment is protective effect in acute ischemic stroke model. The findings compellingly involved in the pathogenesis of stroke. This suggests from their study revealed
