Review
KEYWORDS: stroke, microbiota, gut, axis, brain, gut microbiota, microbiota-gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, mice, gut-brain, cerebral, intestinal, gastrointestinal, natural, gut-brain axis


a neuro- establish that microbiota-gut-brain axis impairment is protective effect in acute ischemic stroke model. The findings compellingly involved in the pathogenesis of stroke. This suggests from their study revealed that resveratrol attenuates the stroke- that it could be potentially modified as a therapeutic target to induced compromise of intestinal integrity and restores the influence the outcome of stroke, and evidence from studies that gastrointestinal immune balance altered by stroke. Their study have modulated stroke via the microbiota-gut-brain axis extends holds as a basic premise the idea that natural products can be the point that the microbiota-gut-brain axis holds promising Fig. 2. Schematic representation illustrating meta-organismal pathway involving the gut microbiota and hepatocytes. doi: ©2023 BMFH Press MICROBIOTA GUT-BRAIN AXIS AND STROKE 149 implications for the therapeutic treatment of stroke as well as the attack. J Am Heart Assoc 4: e002699. [Medline] [CrossRef] prevention of stroke. Assessment of the microbiota profile and status of microbiota metabolites holds enormous clinical potential of commensal bacteria in post-stroke infection. Nat Med 22: 1277–1284. [Medline] as a non-invasive indicator for the early diagnosis and prognosis [CrossRef] of stroke. 21. Yamashiro K, Tanaka R, Urabe T, Ueno Y, Yamashiro Y, Nomoto K, Takahashi T, Tsuji H, Asahara T, Hattori N. 2017. Gut dysbiosis is associated with metabolism and systemic inflammation in patients with ischemic stroke. PLoS One 12: e0171521. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT [Medline] [CrossRef] 22. Wang W, Li X, Yao X, Cheng X, Zhu Y. 2018. The characteristics analysis of intestinal This study was supported by a Postgraduate Scholarship for microecology on cerebral infarction patients and its correlation with apolipoprotein E. Medicine (Baltimore) 97: e12805. [Medline] [CrossRef] International Students (PSIS) from the Faculty of Medicine Khon 23. Huang L, Wang T, Wu Q, Dong X, Shen F, Liu D, Qin X, Yan L, Wan Q. 2019. Research Grant (RA00127/IN66053), and the Integrative e6928. [Medline] [CrossRef] 24. Li N, Wang X, Sun C, Wu X, Lu M, Si Y, Ye X, Wang T, Yu X, Zhao X, Wei N, Wang Complementary Alternative Medicine Research and Development X. 2019. Change of intestinal microbiota in cerebral ischemic stroke patients. BMC Center in the Research Institute for Human High Performance and Microbiol 19: 191. [Medline] [CrossRef] characteristics of “the second brain”—the enteric nervous system]. Sheng Li Xue Bao 72: 382–390 (in Chinese). [Medline]
