NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, pain, pelvic, pelvic pain, syndrome, pain syndrome, chronic pelvic, nih-pa, nih-pa author, diagnosis


Author Manuscript Am J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 May 1. Published in final edited form as: Am J Med. 2008 May ; 121(5): 444–449. doi:. Excessive Antibiotic Utilization in Men with Prostatitis 1,2 1,2 3 4,5 6,7 8 4,5 1,2 America Project Abstract Background—Prostatitis accounts for two million outpatient visits annually. The vast majority of prostatitis cases fit the definition of chronic pelvic pain syndrome for which routine antibiotic use is not indicated. were used to quantify the magnitude of antibiotic use attributable to chronic pelvic pain syndrome. Specifically, men with a diagnosis of infectious/acute prostatitis, and/or a urinary tract infection were excluded, and the remaining men with a diagnosis of prostatitis were defined as having chronic pelvic pain syndrome. Results—Annual prevalence of chronic pelvic pain syndrome was 0.5%. Prescriptions for fluoroquinolone antibiotics were filled in 49% of men with a diagnosis of chronic pelvic pain syndrome compared to five percent in men without chronic pelvic pain syndrome. Men with chronic pelvic pain syndrome were greater than seven times more likely to receive a fluoroquinolone prescription independent of age, race/ethnicity and comorbid conditions. Increased use of other antibiotics was also observed. High utilization was similar in men with either infectious/acute prostatitis or chronic pelvic pain syndrome. Corresponding author: Brent C. Taylor, Ph.D., M.P.H., Center for Chronic Disease Outcomes Research (111-0), Minneapolis VA Medical Center, 1 Veterans Drive, Minneapolis MN 55417, USA. Tel: 612-467-4941; fax: 612-725-2118. E-mail address: . Reprint requests: Timothy J. Wilt, M.D., M.P.H., Center for Chronic Disease Outcomes Research (111-0), Minneapolis VA Medical Center, 1 Veterans Drive, Minneapolis MN 55417, USA. Tel:612-467-2681; fax: 612-725-2118. E-mail address: Disclaimer: The views expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the Department of Veterans Affairs or the National Institutes of Health. Publisher's Disclaimer: This is a PDF file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication. As a service to our customers we are providing this early version of the manuscript. The manuscript will undergo copyediting, typesetting, and review of the resulting proof before it is published in its final citable form. Please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Conclusions—Despite evidence that antibiotics are not effective in the large
