NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, pain, pelvic, pelvic pain, syndrome, pain syndrome, chronic pelvic, nih-pa, nih-pa author, diagnosis


content, and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Conclusions—Despite evidence that antibiotics are not effective in the large majority of men with chronic pelvic pain syndrome, they were prescribed in 69% of men with this diagnosis. Some increased use is probably due to uncontrolled confounding by comorbid conditions or inaccurate diagnostic coding. However, a seven-fold higher rate of fluoroquinolone usage suggests strategies to reduce unnecessary antibiotic use in men with prostatitis are warranted. BACKGROUND Prostatitis refers to several clinical syndromes and has been categorized in four types: 1) acute bacterial infection, 2) chronic bacterial infection, 3) poorly defined chronic pelvic pain syndrome and 4) asymptomatic prostate inflammation. Acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis account for approximately 5% to 10% of all cases of prostatitis. Both are clearly associated with bacterial infection (often recurrent) and a urine culture that grows uropathogens. However, most men diagnosed with prostatitis have pelvic pain without evidence of infection. Because antibiotics are not effective for treatment of abacterial chronic prostatitis, their use should be limited to individuals with confirmed positive cultures on expressed prostatic fluid or associated urinary tract infection. Recent efforts have been made to disseminate this information and implement appropriate antibiotic prescribing for several common conditions including prostatitis. In the USA, chronic pelvic pain syndrome accounts for the vast majority of all prostatitis diagnoses totaling almost two million outpatient visits and 1% of primary care visits annually. 5;6 7 quality of life and economic costs. Because there are no reliable physical or laboratory findings, diagnosis of chronic pelvic pain syndrome is based on exclusion of other causes, particularly infection. While fluoroquinolones are a Food and Drug Administration approved treatment for prostate infections, the vast majority of prostatitis cases are not infectious but instead comprise a 2;4 syndrome of chronic pelvic pain. The etiology of this condition is unclear but a systematic 9 10;11 review and subsequent randomized trials of the efficacy of treatments have demonstrated that routine antibiotics, including fluoroquinolones are not effective. Furthermore, prior research has found that, after excluding men with urinary tract infection, diagnosed cases of chronic pelvic pain syndrome have similar detection rates for uropathogenic and nonuropathogenic bacterial species when compared with asymtomatic controls. Fluoroquinolone use has substantially increased over the past decade driven by the increasing 8;13 use of newer broader-spectrum fluoroquinolones. They account for nearly one-quarter of
