NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, pain, pelvic, pelvic pain, syndrome, pain syndrome, chronic pelvic, nih-pa, nih-pa author, diagnosis


when compared with asymtomatic controls. Fluoroquinolone use has substantially increased over the past decade driven by the increasing 8;13 use of newer broader-spectrum fluoroquinolones. They account for nearly one-quarter of all antibiotic prescriptions with family practice and internal medicine providers accounting for more than one-half and urologists ten percent of these. Overuse of antibiotics is a serious public costs of medication. In order to estimate antibiotic utilization, the current study uses data from male veterans receiving care at the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) between 1999 and 2003 to calculate the increased likelihood of antibiotic use, particularly fluoroquinolones, for the treatment of chronic pelvic pain syndrome. METHODS Study Population This study was conducted as part of the Urologic Diseases in America (UDA) project whose 14–16 aim was to quantify the burden of urologic diseases. The study population consisted of Am J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 May 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript all male patients aged 18 years and over who used inpatient acute care or outpatient care in the VHA between 1999 and 2003. The Institutional Review Boards of both the Minneapolis and Edward Hines, Jr. VA Hospitals approved the study, including a HIPAA waiver of authorization. Data Collection VHA Inpatient and Outpatient datasets and Pharmacy Benefits and Management (PBM) files for October 1, 1998 through September 30, 2003 were merged to assess prostatitis prevalence Modification (ICD-9-CM) diagnostic codes for inpatient and outpatient records were used to detect diagnoses of prostatitis and other potential confounding conditions. The majority of cases of prostatitis are not confirmed as either bacterial or abacterial and there is no specific code for abacterial prostatitis. Therefore, men were defined as either having a diagnosis of “chronic pelvic pain syndrome” or “infectious/acute prostatitis”. “Chronic pelvic pain syndrome” was defined by either the ICD-9 codes for chronic prostatitis (601.1x) or prostatitis, unspecified (601.9x). “Infectious/acute prostatitis” was defined by the ICD-9 codes for ‘acute prostatitis’ (601.0x), ‘abscess of prostate’ (601.2x), ‘prostatocystitis’ (601.3x), ‘prostatitis in diseases classified elsewhere, actinomycosis, blastomycosis, syphilis, tuberculosis’ (601.4x), or ‘other specified inflammatory diseases of prostate, prostatitis: cavitary, diverticular, granulomatous’ (601.8x]). In order to further identify men with chronic prostatitis unlikely to benefit from antibiotics, men with any diagnosis of urinary tract infection in the same fiscal year were excluded. Medication data were obtained from the PBM national database Version 3.0. The database for this project contains information from
