NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, pain, pelvic, pelvic pain, syndrome, pain syndrome, chronic pelvic, nih-pa, nih-pa author, diagnosis


of urinary tract infection in the same fiscal year were excluded. Medication data were obtained from the PBM national database Version 3.0. The database for this project contains information from the time frame defined. For the current project, unique patient counts were determined for specific antibiotics frequently used for treatment of bacterial prostatitis or urinary tract infections including: fluoroquinolones, cephalosporins, penicillins, sulfonamides and tetracycline within the fiscal years 1999 through 2003. Patients were only counted once in each year. Additionally, diagnoses of the following conditions were used as comorbidities that might affect antibiotic utilization: cerebrovascular disease, cardiovascular disease, congestive heart failure, chronic lung disease, dementia, alcohol abuse, diabetes, and hypertension. ICD-9 codes used to define each condition can be obtained from the authors. Age was categorized into five groups (<50, 50–59, 60–69, 70–79, and 80+). Race/ethnicity data were obtained from the VHA data and, when missing, were supplemented by those in the Medicare Denominator files. Details on the completeness and validity of the self-reported race/ ethnicity data have previously been published for these data. Statistical Analysis Comparisons of differences in age, race/ethnicity, number of comorbid conditions (0, 1, or 2 or more), and prescription of any oral antibiotic or a specific prescription for a fluoroquinolone were calculated for men with and without a diagnosis consistent with chronic pelvic pain syndrome. For all of the primary analyses men with a diagnosis of urinary tract infection were excluded from that year’s analysis. The association between chronic pelvic pain syndrome and fluoroquinolone use was calculated as a prevalence ratio (PR) adjusted for age, race/ethnicity, and number of comorbid conditions, using published log binomial regression methods. Adjusted population attributable risks (PAR) were then calculated from the adjusted prevalence ratio and prevalence of chronic pelvic pain syndrome. The PAR estimates the number of men with fluoroquinolone prescriptions who might be expected to have received prescription(s) due to their chronic pelvic pain syndrome after accounting for age, race/ethnicity and comorbidities. Am J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 May 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript These methods were repeated to estimate the number of men with an antibiotic prescription, other than fluoroquinolone. Secondary analyses were conducted to assess the effect of excluding men with infectious/acute prostatitis from the analyses. The primary methods were repeated and the magnitude of effect for infectious/acute prostatitis diagnosis on fluoroquinolone use was compared to that of
