NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, pain, pelvic, pelvic pain, syndrome, pain syndrome, chronic pelvic, nih-pa, nih-pa author, diagnosis


prescribed a fluoroquinolone to treat their chronic pelvic pain syndrome increased 50% from 5,091 in 1999 to 7,635 in 2003 due to the larger number of men receiving care at VHA and the increased use of fluoroquinolones. Men with a diagnosis of chronic pelvic pain syndrome were also more likely to have been prescribed other classes of antibiotics (PR=3.57 95% CI; 3.51, 3.63) independent of age, race/ ethnicity and number of comorbid conditions (Table 3). Over the five year period, we estimated 14,153 men were prescribed an antibiotic other than a fluoroquinolone to treat their chronic pelvic pain syndrome. Secondary Analysis Comparing Infectious/Acute Prostatitis to Chronic Pelvic pain Syndrome When we included all FY2003 male VHA users with a diagnosis of prostatitis (n=34,003), regardless of whether or not it was infectious/acute, we found 28,124 men (0.6% of all VHA users who did not have a diagnosis of urinary tract infection) had at least one diagnosis of Am J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 May 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript prostatitis during FY2003. Nearly 82% (n=23,037) of these men with prostatitis met our diagnostic criteria for chronic pelvic pain syndrome. The multivariable-adjusted prevalence ratios for fluoroquinolone prescriptions were similar in men with infectious/acute prostatitis and men with chronic pelvic pain syndrome (PR of 8.60 and 8.66, respectively) compared to men with no prostatitis diagnosis. The observation was similar for all of the years (data not shown). DISCUSSION The findings from this national clinical care database indicate that the majority of men diagnosed with prostatitis lack an appropriate indication for use of antibiotics. Despite this, most men with a diagnosis of prostatitis received an antibiotic, particularly fluoroquinolones. This high percentage of antibiotic utilization is considerably greater than in men of similar age, race/ethnicity and number of comorbidities who lack a diagnosis of prostatitis. National VA administrative and clinical datasets do not specify the reason for an antibiotic prescription; therefore some individual prescriptions may have been for coexisting conditions. However, it is unlikely that there would be a strong (greater than 7-fold) and consistent association in men without urinary tract infection or infectious/acute prostatitis independent of age, race/ethnicity or comorbidity status. Furthermore, the fact that men with a diagnosis consistent with chronic pelvic pain syndrome had similarly strong associations as men with a diagnosis of infectious/ acute prostatitis supports the hypothesis that antibiotic treatment is not
