NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, pain, pelvic, pelvic pain, syndrome, pain syndrome, chronic pelvic, nih-pa, nih-pa author, diagnosis


with a diagnosis consistent with chronic pelvic pain syndrome had similarly strong associations as men with a diagnosis of infectious/ acute prostatitis supports the hypothesis that antibiotic treatment is not restricted to men with prostatitis and a confirmed bacterial infection. Antibiotic overuse has been identified as one of 20 priority areas for improving health care quality. Increased antibiotic use contributes to the development and spread of antibiotic- resistant bacteria. Once confined to the inpatient setting, resistant bacteria are now common community-acquired infections. The increasing prevalence of antibiotic resistant organisms is associated with morbidity and mortality and has led to more expensive and broad-spectrum empiric antibiotic prescribing. While serious adverse effects are infrequent, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, dizziness and skin rash are common and reduce quality of life. Therefore, reducing inappropriate use of antibiotics is a critical step in slowing the progression of current levels of resistance, preventing the emergence of new strains of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and improving quality/cost-effective care. A recent report by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality reviewed strategies to improve antibiotic prescribing behavior. Quality improvement (QI) strategies were found moderately effective at reducing inappropriate antibiotic prescribing. Although no single QI strategy was clearly superior, active clinician education may be more effective in certain settings. Their report focused on acute respiratory tract infections. No previous work has been done on trying to improve antibiotic prescribing behavior in men with chronic pelvic pain syndrome. However, our results highlight the importance of this issue. Particularly, considering that there is no reason to suppose that the level of inappropriate prescribing in the VHA would be any higher than in other health care facilities. There are limitations for this study relating to the quantification of inappropriate antibiotic use. Some of the difficulties stem from the fact that fluoroquinolones are approved for the treatment of the small minority of men with bacterial prostatitis and a specific diagnostic code to separate these patients from those with Category III prostatitis or pelvic pain syndrome does not exist. Therefore, while prior research leads us to believe that the vast majority of men defined in our study as having chronic pelvic pain syndrome did not have identified bacterial infections at rates greater than age matched controls, it is likely that some small portion of these men had positive bacterial cultures and were not diagnosed with a urinary tract infection or classified as having infectious/acute prostatitis. Efforts
