NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: prostatitis, chronic, men, manuscript, author, author manuscript, pain, pelvic, pelvic pain, syndrome, pain syndrome, chronic pelvic, nih-pa, nih-pa author, diagnosis


it is likely that some small portion of these men had positive bacterial cultures and were not diagnosed with a urinary tract infection or classified as having infectious/acute prostatitis. Efforts to modify the coding for prostatitis to include Am J Med. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2009 May 1. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript specific reference to whether or not a positive bacterial culture was obtained would improve future quality assurance measurements and possibly prescribing patterns. Our findings of similarly high rates of fluoroquinolone use in either the chronic pelvic pain syndrome group or infectious/acute group suggest that coding issues do not explain the majority of the association, and instead antibiotics are not being restricted to those with confirmed bacterial 11;22 infections. Additionally, while evidence from a consensus statement and an observational 11;23 study have suggested that the use of antibiotics, particularly fluoroquinolones, may have some value in men who have never received antibiotic therapy for chronic pelvic pain syndrome, both of these prior articles stated that randomized controlled trials were needed to better address this issue. Two such trials have since been completed and both found no effect 10;11 beyond that of a placebo. While the lack of benefit could be due to many trial participants having received previous antibiotics, these trials did not provide stratified results in men with no prior antibiotic exposure. It is likely that many men in our study also had received prior antibiotic treatment. It was not possible within our summary dataset to reliably estimate the proportion of men for whom antibiotics were being used the first time to treat their prostatitis. The current study also did not directly connect individual prescriptions to diagnoses at a annual antibiotic utilization with his diagnoses from the same year. as such offers advantages in terms of size and completeness of medical and pharmacy data. Because of this, we believe that the results of this study are likely valid and generalizable to many other health care systems in the USA. As the current study was part of a broad multiyear project to understand general trends in common urological conditions, we did not attempt conduct a detailed review of the men diagnosed with prostatitis to determine their history of diagnoses, laboratory findings and detailed medication history. Future research projects could use more of the available medical record information to educate providers as well as evaluate
