Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


Quality statements Statement 1 Adults presenting in primary care with suspected heart failure have their N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) measured. [2023] Statement 2 Adults with suspected heart failure have specialist assessment and transthoracic echocardiography within 2 weeks of referral if they have a very high N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) level, or 6 weeks if they have a high NT-proBNP level. [2011, updated 2023] Statement 3 Adults with newly diagnosed and pre-existing chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction receive all appropriate medication at optimal tolerated doses. [2011, updated 2025] Statement 4 Adults with chronic heart failure have a review within 2 weeks of any change in the dose or type of their heart failure medication. [2016] Statement 5 Adults with chronic heart failure have a review of their condition at least every 6 months. [2011, updated 2016] Statement 6 Adults with chronic heart failure receive a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation. [2011, updated 2023] In 2023, this quality standard was updated and statements prioritised in 2011 and 2016 were updated (2011, updated 2023), remained unchanged (2016), or were replaced (2023). For more information, see update information. The previous version of the quality standard for chronic heart failure in adults is available as a pdf. Quality statement 1: N-terminal pro-B- type natriuretic peptide measurement Quality statement Adults presenting in primary care with suspected heart failure have their N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) measured. [2023] Rationale N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide measurement in primary care can confirm whether heart failure is likely when it is suspected and there is no existing diagnosis of heart failure. People can then be referred for specialist assessment and echocardiography, begin appropriate treatment at an earlier point in their illness, and lower their risk of hospitalisation and mortality. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of adults diagnosed with heart failure by specialist assessment and echocardiography who had NT-proBNP measured before diagnosis. Numerator – the number in the denominator who had NT-proBNP measured before diagnosis. Denominator – the number of adults diagnosed with heart failure by specialist assessment and echocardiography. Data source: No routinely collected national data for this measure has been identified. Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare
