Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


knowledge summary on obesity. [Adapted from NICE's clinical knowledge summary on chronic heart failure] Quality statement 2: Specialist assessment Quality statement Adults with suspected heart failure have specialist assessment and transthoracic echocardiography within 2 weeks of referral if they have a very high N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) level, or 6 weeks if they have a high NT-proBNP level. [2011, updated 2023] Rationale Adults who have high (between 400 and 2,000 ng/litre) or very high levels (over 2,000 ng/ litre) of NT-proBNP have a higher likelihood of heart failure and a poorer prognosis. Having transthoracic echocardiography concurrently with specialist assessment to confirm heart failure classification within 2 or 6 weeks of referral can help to ensure that the person is started on appropriate treatment to manage their condition. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local service pathways and written clinical protocols to ensure that adults with suspected heart failure who have been referred for diagnosis have transthoracic echocardiography and specialist assessment within 2 or 6 weeks based on their NT-proBNP level. Data source: No routinely collected data for this measure has been identified. Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare provider organisations, for example from service pathways or protocols. Process a) Proportion of adults with very high levels of NT-proBNP, who have been referred for diagnosis, who have transthoracic echocardiography and specialist assessment within 2 weeks of referral. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have transthoracic echocardiography and specialist assessment within 2 weeks of referral. Denominator – the number of adults with very high levels of NT-proBNP who have been referred for diagnosis. Data source: No routinely collected national data for this measure has been identified. Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. b) Proportion of adults with high levels of NT-proBNP, who have been referred for diagnosis, who have transthoracic echocardiography and specialist assessment within 6 weeks of referral. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have transthoracic echocardiography and specialist assessment within 6 weeks of referral. Denominator – the number of adults with high levels of NT-proBNP who have been referred for diagnosis. Data source:
