Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


have transthoracic echocardiography and specialist assessment within 6 weeks of referral. Denominator – the number of adults with high levels of NT-proBNP who have been referred for diagnosis. Data source: No routinely collected national data for this measure has been identified. Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. Outcome Hospital admissions due to heart failure. Data source: The National Heart Failure Audit contains data on hospital admission rates for heart failure. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (such as secondary care) ensure that systems such as referral pathways, as well as appropriate equipment and staff training, are in place for adults with suspected heart failure to have an echocardiogram and be seen by a specialist concurrently within 2 or 6 weeks of referral based on their levels of NT-proBNP. Healthcare professionals (such as consultant cardiologists) ensure that adults with suspected heart failure have an echocardiogram and specialist assessment within 2 or 6 weeks of referral based on their levels of NT-proBNP. Commissioners (integrated care systems) ensure that they commission services in which adults with suspected heart failure have an echocardiogram and specialist assessment concurrently within 2 or 6 weeks of referral based on their levels of NT-proBNP. Adults with suspected heart failure who have been referred for diagnosis have a test called an echocardiogram and are seen by a heart specialist at the same time. This should happen within 2 weeks of being referred by their GP if a blood test shows very high levels of a substance (called an N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide) that suggests they may have heart failure needing urgent treatment. It should happen within 6 weeks if those levels are high. An echocardiogram is a test to check the structure of the heart and how well it is working. The specialist will carry out an assessment and confirm whether they have chronic heart failure. If chronic heart failure is diagnosed, the specialist will try to find the cause, offer treatment and talk to the person about how to manage the condition. Source guidance Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline NG106 (2018, updated 2025), recommendations 1.2.3 and 1.2.4 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Specialist assessment Specialist assessment includes tests to evaluate for possible aggravating factors and to exclude other conditions with similar presentations, and
