Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


1.2.4 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Specialist assessment Specialist assessment includes tests to evaluate for possible aggravating factors and to exclude other conditions with similar presentations, and confirm a diagnosis of heart failure, including the type of reduced or preserved ejection fraction. It also includes assessment for underlying causes where appropriate. The assessment should be carried out by the specialist heart failure multidisciplinary team which should include: • a lead physician with subspecialty training in heart failure (usually a consultant cardiologist) who is responsible for making the clinical diagnosis • a specialist heart failure nurse • a healthcare professional with expertise in specialist prescribing for heart failure, for example, a specialist heart failure pharmacist. [Adapted from NICE's clinical knowledge summary on chronic heart failure and NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults, recommendation 1.1.1] Very high levels of NT-proBNP Very high levels of NT-proBNP are defined as above 2,000 ng/litre (236 pmol/litre). [Adapted from NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults, recommendation 1.2.3] High levels of NT-proBNP High levels of NT-proBNP are defined as between 400 and 2,000 ng/litre (47 to 236 pmol/ litre). [Adapted from NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults, recommendation 1.2.4] Quality statement 3: Medication for newly diagnosed and pre-existing chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction Quality statement Adults with newly diagnosed and pre-existing chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction receive all appropriate medication at optimal tolerated doses. [2011, updated 2025] Rationale It is important that all adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction are given all appropriate medications at an optimal tolerated dose to best manage their condition and provide the best outcome. Adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction should be offered the following treatment combination to reduce the likelihood of related hospitalisation and mortality: • angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor － or an angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) － or an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) • beta-blocker • mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) • sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor. People's medical history, findings from their clinical assessment, their frailty status, prognosis and preferences should be used when making decisions about these medicines. They should have regular checks to monitor any side effects, until optimal tolerated doses are reached. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how
