Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


tolerated doses are reached. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process a) Proportion of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction that are prescribed an ACE inhibitor, or ARNI or ARB. Numerator – the number in the denominator that are prescribed an ACE inhibitor, or ARNI or ARB. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Data source: Data on general practice prescribing of ACE inhibitors or ARBs is available from the NHS Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF; see QOF indicator HF003). Data on prescribing of ACE inhibitors (or ARBs or ARNIs) on discharge from hospital is available from the National Heart Failure Audit. b) Proportion of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction that are prescribed a beta-blocker. Numerator – the number in the denominator that are prescribed a beta-blocker. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Data source: Data on general practice prescribing of beta-blockers, is available from the NHS Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF; see QOF indicator HF006). Data on prescribing of beta-blockers on discharge from hospital is available from the National Heart Failure Audit. c) Proportion of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction that are prescribed an MRA. Numerator – the number in the denominator that are prescribed an MRA. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Data source: Data on prescribing of MRAs on discharge from hospital is available from the National Heart Failure Audit. d) Proportion of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction that are prescribed an SGLT2 inhibitor. Numerator – the number in the denominator that are prescribed an SGLT2 inhibitor. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Data source: Data on prescribing of SGLT2 inhibitors on discharge from hospital is available from the National Heart Failure Audit. e) Proportion of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction that are prescribed an ACE inhibitor, beta-blocker, MRA and SGLT2 inhibitor. Numerator – the number in the denominator that are prescribed an ACE inhibitor, beta- blocker, MRA and SGLT2 inhibitor. Denominator – the number
