Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


ACE inhibitor, beta-blocker, MRA and SGLT2 inhibitor. Numerator – the number in the denominator that are prescribed an ACE inhibitor, beta- blocker, MRA and SGLT2 inhibitor. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Data source: No routinely collected national data on general practice prescribing is available for all medicines in this treatment combination, but may be collected locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. Data on prescribing of ACE inhibitors (or ARNIs or ARBs, beta-blockers, MRAs and SGLT2 inhibitors) on discharge from hospital is available from the National Heart Failure Audit. The uptake of MRAs, SGLT2 inhibitors and ARNIs in general practice prescribing for people with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction will need to be undertaken at a local level using any data available. This could include electronic medical records. Outcome a) Hospital admissions due to heart failure. Data source: The National Heart Failure Audit contains data on hospital admission rates for heart failure. b) Mortality due to heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Data source: No routinely collected national data for this measure has been identified. The National Heart Failure Audit contains mortality data for people 1 year after discharge who were admitted with heart failure. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (GP practices, hospitals and community providers) ensure that adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction are prescribed a combination of treatments in line with the latest NICE guidance. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, specialists in cardiac care, heart failure specialist nurses and clinical pharmacists) ensure that they prescribe appropriate medications in line with their marketing authorisation and relevant NICE guidance (including clinical guidelines and technology appraisal guidance). They ensure that the medication is started and increased (when applicable) in accordance with individual health needs and, if the medication requires it, based on the advice of a heart failure specialist. They also make sure that there is monitoring for side effects and symptoms of heart failure after each increase in dose. Commissioners (such as integrated care systems and NHS England) ensure that they commission services in which adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction are prescribed appropriate medication. Adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (when the part of the heart that pumps blood around the body is not squeezing the blood as well
