Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


appropriate medication. Adults with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (when the part of the heart that pumps blood around the body is not squeezing the blood as well as it should) are prescribed appropriate medications for heart failure. The medication is started and increased (when applicable) with check-ins for any changes in symptoms, side effects and, depending on the medication, based on input from their heart failure doctor. Source guidance • Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline NG106 (2018, updated 2025), recommendations 1.4.1 to 1.4.4, 1.7.1 and 1.7.2 • Sacubitril valsartan for treating symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. NICE technology appraisal 388 (2016) recommendations 1.1 and 1.2 • Dapagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. NICE technology appraisal guidance 679 (2021), recommendations 1.1 and 1.2 • Empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. NICE technology appraisal guidance 773 (2022), recommendations 1.1 and 1.2 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction Heart failure with an ejection fraction below 40%. [NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults] Appropriate medication ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, MRAs and SGLT2 inhibitors are of proven benefit for people with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, and NICE recommends them as first-line treatment. ARNIs licensed for heart failure should be considered as an alternative to an ACE inhibitor for people on the maximum tolerated dose of each of ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, MRAs and SGLT2 inhibitors who continue to have symptoms of heart failure, and for people with chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction who have symptoms of intolerance to ACE inhibitors (other than angioedema). Primary care prescribers should consider seeking advice from a heart failure specialist before starting someone on a angiotensin receptor- neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI). ARBs licensed for heart failure should be considered for people with angioedema after taking an ACE inhibitor, and should be considered for people who have symptoms of intolerance of ACE inhibitors and ARNIs. Other specialist treatments may also be appropriate for some people and should be initiated by a heart failure specialist with access to a multidisciplinary heart failure team or after seeking specialist advice. These treatments include ivabradine, hydralazine in combination with nitrate (especially if the person is of African or Caribbean family origin and has moderate to severe heart failure with reduced ejection fraction) and digoxin.
