Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


ivabradine, hydralazine in combination with nitrate (especially if the person is of African or Caribbean family origin and has moderate to severe heart failure with reduced ejection fraction) and digoxin. People's medical history, findings from their clinical assessment, their frailty status, prognosis and preferences should be used when deciding: • which specific medicines and medicine combinations to use • the order and timing for introducing each medicine • the initial dose of each medicine and any subsequent dose increments • when and how to optimise the dose of each medicine. [NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults, recommendations 1.4.1 to 1.4.4, 1.4.8 to 1.4.12, 1.7.1 and 1.7.2 and NICE's technology appraisal guidance on ivabradine, sacubitril valsartan, dapagliflozin, and empagliflozin for treating chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction] Equality and diversity considerations ACE inhibitors are less effective in people of African or Caribbean family origin. Healthcare professionals should take this into account and ensure that the person receives additional treatment promptly if needed. Quality statement 4: Review after changes in medication Quality statement Adults with chronic heart failure have a review within 2 weeks of any change in the dose or type of their heart failure medication. [2016] Rationale Medication to treat chronic heart failure can cause side effects, including dehydration, low blood pressure, a low heart rate and renal impairment. Some may initially and temporarily make heart failure symptoms worse. When the dose or type of medication for chronic heart failure is changed, the person should have a review within 2 weeks to monitor the effects. This can also include a review of the effectiveness of the medication and whether any further changes or referral to other members of the multidisciplinary team are needed. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of changes to dose or type of chronic heart failure medication in which the person is reviewed within 2 weeks of a change. Numerator – the number in the denominator in which the person is reviewed within 2 weeks of the change to dose or type of medication. Denominator – the number of changes to dose or type of chronic heart failure medication in adults with chronic heart failure. Data source: No routinely collected
