Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


function • iron status and haemoglobin measurement. Reviews may need to be adjusted based on the medication that has been introduced or changed, for example testing within 2 weeks of introduction of a sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor may show irregular results for some tests. More detailed monitoring is needed if the person has significant comorbidity or if their condition has deteriorated since the previous review. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults, recommendations 1.8.1 and 1.8.2, and expert opinion] Quality statement 5: Review of people with chronic heart failure Quality statement Adults with chronic heart failure have a review of their condition at least every 6 months. [2011, updated 2016] Rationale Adults with chronic heart failure should have a review of their condition at least every 6 months to ensure that their medications are working effectively, and they are not experiencing any significant side effects. This will allow their healthcare professional to assess whether there has been any deterioration in their condition, if their medications should be changed, if other procedures (such as cardiac resynchronisation therapy) should be considered and whether referral to another member of the multidisciplinary team is needed. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process Proportion of adults with chronic heart failure who had a review of their condition in the past 6 months. Numerator – the number in the denominator who had a review of their condition in the past 6 months. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure. Data source: No routinely collected national data for this measure has been identified. Data can be collected from information recorded locally by healthcare professionals and provider organisations, for example from patient records. Outcome Hospital admissions due to heart failure. Data source: The National Heart Failure Audit contains data on hospital admission rates for heart failure. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (GP practices, hospitals, and community providers) ensure that systems are in place so that adults with chronic heart failure have a review of their condition at least every 6 months. Healthcare professionals (GPs and specialist multidisciplinary heart failure team members) ensure that they review adults with chronic heart failure at least every 6 months.
