Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


specialist heart failure multidisciplinary team if needed • contact details for: － a named healthcare coordinator (usually a specialist heart failure nurse) － alternative local heart failure specialist care providers, for urgent care or review • additional sources of information for people with heart failure. For people taking amiodarone the review should include liver and thyroid function tests, and a review of side effects. For people with a cardioverter defibrillator, the review should consider benefits and potential harms of it remaining active. More detailed monitoring should be provided if the person has significant comorbidity or if their condition has deteriorated since the previous review. Monitoring serum potassium is particularly important if a person is taking digoxin or a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist. People with heart failure who wish to be involved in the monitoring of their condition should be provided with sufficient education and support to do this, with clear guidelines as to what to do in the event of deterioration. [Adapted from the BNF treatment summary on chronic heart failure and NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults, recommendations 1.1.4, 1.1.7 to 1.1.9, 1.8.1 to 1.8.4, 1.9.3, 1.9.4, and 1.10.5] Quality statement 6: Cardiac rehabilitation Quality statement Adults with chronic heart failure receive a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation. [2011, updated 2023] Rationale A personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation delivered by an appropriate method, preceded by an assessment to ensure that it is suitable, can help to extend and improve the quality of a person's life. Cardiac rehabilitation uses monitored exercise, psychological support and education about lifestyle changes to reduce the risks of further heart problems. It can also reduce uncertainty and anxiety about living with chronic heart failure. Through better management of their condition, the person may have greater opportunities to return to normal activities. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Process a) Proportion of adults with chronic heart failure who have a record of referral to a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation. Numerator – the number in the denominator who have a record of referral to a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure. Data source: The National Heart Failure Audit contains data on patients discharged alive
