Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


to a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure. Data source: The National Heart Failure Audit contains data on patients discharged alive after an admission with acute heart failure referred as an inpatient to cardiac rehabilitation. b) Proportion of adults with chronic heart failure who receive a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation. Numerator – the number in the denominator who receive a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation. Denominator – the number of adults with chronic heart failure. Data source: National data on the uptake of cardiac rehabilitation is available from the NHS National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation. Outcome a) Rates of people with chronic heart failure completing programmes of cardiac rehabilitation. Data source: National data on the proportion of people with chronic heart failure completing cardiac rehabilitation are available from the NHS National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation. b) Patient outcomes following programmes of cardiac rehabilitation. Data source: National data on patient outcomes following cardiac rehabilitation such as physical activity, BMI, anxiety and depression are available from the NHS National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (GP practices, community nursing teams and hospitals) ensure that referral pathways to personalised programmes of cardiac rehabilitation that include a monitored exercise, a psychological component and an educational component are available for adults with chronic heart failure. Healthcare professionals (such as GPs, cardiac rehabilitation nurses and specialists in cardiac care) ensure that they refer adults diagnosed with chronic heart failure to a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation, once they are well enough to take part. Commissioners (integrated care systems and local authorities) ensure that they commission services in which personalised cardiac rehabilitation programmes that include a monitored exercise, a psychological component and an educational component are available for adults with chronic heart failure. Adults with chronic heart failure are offered a personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation if it is suitable for them, once they are well enough to take part. This programme includes help and support with taking exercise, help with understanding their condition, support with their thoughts and feelings around the condition, and help with how to look after themselves. Source guidance Chronic heart failure in adults: diagnosis and management. NICE guideline NG106 (2018, updated 2025), recommendation 1.11.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation This is an exercise-based programme of rehabilitation
