Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


and management. NICE guideline NG106 (2018, updated 2025), recommendation 1.11.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Personalised programme of cardiac rehabilitation This is an exercise-based programme of rehabilitation designed for people with chronic heart failure that includes a psychological and educational component. It should be accompanied by information about support available from healthcare professionals. The information should be provided in a format and setting (at home, in the community or in the hospital) that is easily accessible. It should be suited to the person, their condition, and their needs. [Adapted from NICE's guideline on chronic heart failure in adults, recommendation 1.11.1] Equality and diversity considerations A programme of cardiac rehabilitation should be accessible for all adults with chronic heart failure, including those who may be housebound or in a nursing home. A range of formats (for example, online, in person) and settings (at home, in the community or in the hospital) should be provided so that everyone has their needs met. When conducting cardiac rehabilitation in the community or in hospital, measures such as providing transport for people to attend sessions and holding the sessions in different locations should be considered. Cardiac rehabilitation should be held in buildings that have access for disabled people. Healthcare professionals should take into account the communication needs of people with chronic heart failure, including those with cognitive impairment, when delivering cardiac rehabilitation. All information should be culturally appropriate, and accessible to people with additional needs such as physical, sensory or learning disabilities, and to people who do not speak or read English. If needed, people should have access to an interpreter or advocate as set out in NICE's guideline on advocacy services for adults with health and social care needs. Update information September 2025: Changes have been made to align this quality standard with the updated NICE guideline on chronic heart failure in adults. Statement 3 on medication for chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction has been updated to reflect changes to the guidance. Links, definitions and source guidance sections have also been updated throughout. January 2023: This quality standard was updated, and statements prioritised in 2011 and 2016 were updated or replaced, with some statements from 2016 remaining unchanged. The topic was identified for update following the annual review of quality standards. The review identified: • potential changes in the priority areas for improvement • that there was potential for
