Chronic heart failure in adults
KEYWORDS: heart, failure, heart failure, chronic heart, chronic, adults, quality, data, statement, specialist, adults chronic, nice, care, cardiac, review


topic was identified for update following the annual review of quality standards. The review identified: • potential changes in the priority areas for improvement • that there was potential for quality statements to be combined. Statements are marked as: • [2023] if the statement covers a new area for quality improvement • [2011, updated 2023] if the statement covers an area for quality improvement included in the 2011 quality standard and has been updated • [2016] if the statement remains unchanged • [2011, updated 2016] if the statement covers an area for quality improvement included in the 2011 quality standard and was updated in 2016. The previous version of the quality standard for chronic heart failure in adults is available as a pdf. About this quality standard NICE quality standards describe high-priority areas for quality improvement in a defined care or service area. Each standard consists of a prioritised set of specific, concise and measurable statements. NICE quality standards draw on existing NICE or NICE-accredited guidance that provides an underpinning, comprehensive set of recommendations, and are designed to support the measurement of improvement. Expected levels of achievement for quality measures are not specified. Quality standards are intended to drive up the quality of care, and so achievement levels of 100% should be aspired to (or 0% if the quality statement states that something should not be done). However, this may not always be appropriate in practice. Taking account of safety, shared decision making, choice and professional judgement, desired levels of achievement should be defined locally. Information about how NICE quality standards are developed is available from the NICE website. See our webpage on quality standards advisory committees for details about our standing committees. Information about the topic experts invited to join the standing members is available from the webpage for this quality standard. NICE has produced a quality standard service improvement template to help providers make an initial assessment of their service compared with a selection of quality statements. This tool is updated monthly to include new quality standards. NICE guidance and quality standards apply in England and Wales. Decisions on how they apply in Scotland and Northern Ireland are made by the Scottish government and Northern Ireland Executive. NICE quality standards may include references to organisations or people responsible for commissioning or providing care that may be relevant only to England. Resource impact NICE quality standards should be achievable
