Case report
KEYWORDS: hyponatraemia, sodium, mmol, case, pre, pre-e, pre-e clampsia, clampsia, eclampsia, pregnancy, delivery, pre eclampsia, severe, level, serum


Case report Pre- eclampsia complicated by severe hyponatraemia Annalisa Montebello ,1,2 John Thake,3 Sandro Vella,1,2 Josanne Vassallo1,2 1Department of Diabetes and SUMMARY aminotransferase (ALT) 13 U/L, alkaline phospha- Endocrinology, Mater Dei A 41- year- old woman was diagnosed with pre- tase (ALP) 73 U/L gamma glutamyl transferase 2Department of Medicine, Mater antihypertensives but, unfortunately, her condition was increased to 300 mg three times a day. became complicated by severe hyponatraemia. Her A decision to induce labour at the earliest was 3Department of Obstetrics sodium levels rapidly dropped to 125 mmol/L. The taken in view of pre- eclampsia and low sodium and Gynaecology, Mater Dei cause for the hyponatraemia was the syndrome of levels. Dexamethasone injection was given twice inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion. She was 12 hours apart pre- delivery. Investigations for low Correspondence to initially managed with fluid restriction, but an emergency sodium at this stage showed a urine sodium of Dr Annalisa Montebello; caesarean section was necessary in view of fetal distress. 38 mmol/L, urine osmolality of 267 mOsm/kg and a. montebello@ smd18. qmul. Her sodium levels returned to normal within 48 hours of serum osmolality of 269 mOsm/kg. The patient was ac. uk delivery. euvolaemic with normal thyroid function (table 1). Pre- eclampsia is rarely associated with hyponatraemia. A She was diagnosed with the syndrome of inappro- Accepted 19 November 2020 low maternal sodium level further increases the mother’s priate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) in risk for seizures during this state. Additionally, the fetal the context of pre- eclampsia. sodium rapidly equilibrates to the mother’s and may The mother was not allowed any oral intake. result in fetal tachycardia, jaundice and polyhdraminios. Intravenous fluids consisting of 10% dextrose at All these factors may necessitate an emergency fetal 166 mL/hour were started as her blood glucose level delivery. was less than 4 mmol/L. Her subcutaneous insulin pump was switched off and short acting insulin was administered intravenously via an infusion pump. Unfortunately, signs of fetal distress appeared on BACKGROUND cardiotocographic monitoring after a few hours. A Pregnancy is a state of physiological changes to the decision to deliver the fetus via a caesarean section body’s salt and water balance. The normal serum was taken. A female infant was delivered with an sodium level decreases by 5 mmol/L to term. Pre- Apgar score of 9 and sodium level of 127 mmol/L. eclampsia is a well-r ecognised complication of preg- The
