Case report
KEYWORDS: hyponatraemia, sodium, mmol, case, pre, pre-e, pre-e clampsia, clampsia, eclampsia, pregnancy, delivery, pre eclampsia, severe, level, serum


this would have corrected post- glucocorticoid adminis- tration which did not occur in this case. OUTCOME AND FOLLOW-UP She fulfilled the criteria for SIADH as she had low serum osmo- Both mother and baby remained well and were both discharged lality (<275 mOsm/kg), inappropriately high urine osmolality a few days after delivery. (>100 mOsm/kg) and urine sodium >30 mmol/L in the setting of euvolaemia and normal thyroid function.2 The diagnosis of SIADH can only be reached after ruling out other possible causes DISCUSSION of euvolaemic hypoosmolar hyponatraemia. There are important physiological changes of salt and water balance Other causes for hyponatraemia in pre- eclampsia include that occur during pregnancy. The serum sodium levels decreases by dilutional hyponatraemia and nephrotic syndrome. However, 5 mmol/L and the serum osmolality drops by 10 mOsm/kg to term. we excluded these as possible causes in our case as they are Osmotic ADH secretion occurs at a lower serum osmolality and the both states of fluid overlad and the urine sodium would be less thirst centre is stimulated at a lower osmolality in pregnancy.3 The than 10mmol/L.1 Hyponatraemia with hypervolaemia occurs in mechanism that causes this phenomenon is not known but a fetal– heart, renal or liver failure or when excess intravenous fluids are placental unit is necessary for this to occur.4 administered. Human chorionic gonadotropin, oxytocin and relaxin are three major pregnancy hormones that increase total body water more than sodium and thus bring about a decrease in serum osmolality.5 Relaxin increases ADH secretion and fluid intake in pregnancy.6 Oxytocin has a similar structure to ADH and leads to water reab- sorption in the kidneys. Plasma oxytocin levels rise during preg- nancy and during the first and second stage of labour to stimulate uterine contractions. Administration of oxytocin during labour may lead to hyponatraemia. The fluid which is used to dilute oxytocin also affects the degree of hyponatraemia. Oxytocin diluted in 5% dextrose causes hyponatraemia more frequently than when it is diluted in normal saline or Hartmann’s fluid.7 Our patient received 500 mL of oxytocin, which was diluted in Hartmann’s fluid after delivery. This is the standard post-d elivery dose and is unlikely to contribute to hyponatraemia.3 A decrease in blood pressure occurs as early as the sixth week of pregnancy. This results in a decrease in effective circulatory Figure 1 Changes in sodium level from admission date till day 3 volume which triggers the
