Case report
KEYWORDS: hyponatraemia, sodium, mmol, case, pre, pre-e, pre-e clampsia, clampsia, eclampsia, pregnancy, delivery, pre eclampsia, severe, level, serum


as the sixth week of pregnancy. This results in a decrease in effective circulatory Figure 1 Changes in sodium level from admission date till day 3 volume which triggers the non-o smotic release of ADH and stim- post- delivery. The dotted red line indicates the lower level of accepted ulates the sympathetic nervous system and the renin angiotensin sodium post- delivery. system to ensure adequate organ perfusion.8 Nausea and vomiting 2 Montebello A, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2020;13:e237827. doi: Case report or pain during labour can also trigger ADH release. Low sodium et al.12 Hypertonic saline was also administered in a case reported intake, polydipsia or excess intravenous fluids may all worsen the by Anglim et al5 hyponatraemia.1 Severe hyponatraemia in the context of pre-e clampsia may be an Pre-e clampsia is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy with multi- indication for urgent delivery as it may lead to maternal and fetal system involvement. Diagnostic criteria include new onset hyper- complications. It further increases the risk for maternal seizures. The tension (systolic: ≥140 mm Hg or diastolic: ≥90 mm Hg) after 20 fetal sodium rapidly equilibrates with the mothers’ sodium. A fetal weeks gestation and proteinuria exceeding 300 mg/24 hours or a sodium is <130 mmol/L and can lead to polyhydramnios, fetal jaun- protein/creatinine ratio ≥0.3 mg/dL. In the absence of proteinuria, dice, respiratory distress and seizures.13 Risks for hyponatraemia in pre-e clampsia can also be diagnosed if new onset hypertension is pre-e clampsia is higher in twin pregnancies,6 older maternal age14 associated with one or more of the following; thrombocytopenia and severe pre-e clampsia.10 (platelets <100×109/L), renal insufficiency (serum creatinine >1.1 mg/dL or a doubling of serum creatinine in the absence of other Learning points renal disease), impaired liver function (liver transaminases twice the normal range), pulmonary oedema and cerebral or visual distur- ► Syndrome of inappropriate anti diuretic hormone (ADH) bances (eg, photopsia and/or scotomata, severe headache and altered secretion is a rare complication of pre-eclampsia. mental status).9 ► Hyponatraemia may be an indicator of severe pre- eclampsia. Pre- eclampsia is rarely associated with hyponatraemia. It is still ► Hyponatraemia may be a reason for urgent caesarean section debatable why only a few patients with pre-e clampsia develop in pre- eclampsia. hyponatraemia. Razavi et al noted that 31 out of 332 preg- nancies (9.7%) with pre- eclampsia suffered hyponatraemia— Contributors AM wrote the case. JT, SV and JV
