Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


a constellation of metabolic derangements termed the cardiometabolic or cardiorenal metabolic syndrome ( 1 ). This syndrome comprises a cluster of CVD risk factors including T2DM, hypertension, dyslipidemia, central obesity, and chronic kidney disease. The coexistence of hypertension and diabetes in these individuals substantially increases the risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD), cerebrovascular accident (CVA), retinopathy, and nephropathy ( 2 ). The rising prevalence of obesity and sedentary lifestyles in the US are the major driver of both diabetes and hypertension and the resulting health care costs are a serious public health concern. Increasingly, the role of environmental factors such as food deserts and environmental pollution in the promotion of diabetes, hypertension, and CVD is being appreciated. These harmful environmental factors especially affect minorities and other disadvantaged populations. The increasing prevalence of T2DM in the general population has expectedly been paralleled by a rise in microvascular and macrovascular complications. Despite major advances in healthcare delivery, diabetes mellitus continues to be the leading cause of blindness, end stage renal disease (ESRD), and non-traumatic lower limb amputations in the US as well as the seventh leading cause of death as of 2017 ( 1 ). While optimal glycemic control remains paramount in the prevention of microvascular complications (retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy), concurrent cardiometabolic derangements such as hypertension and dyslipidemia play a pivotal role in the initiation and progression of macrovascular disease (ischemic heart disease, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease) ( 3 ). Effective management of diabetes should therefore include a multifaceted approach combining optimal control of blood pressure and lipids with appropriate glycemic control ( 4 ). This chapter will focus on the management of hypertension in patients with diabetes. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF HYPERTENSION IN DIABETES The pathophysiology of hypertension in diabetes can be traced to maladaptive changes and complex interactions between the autonomic nervous system, a maladaptive immune system, enhanced activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) as well as adverse environmental factors. The factors listed below play a major role in the pathogenesis of hypertension and have been targeted for therapeutic interventions ( 2 , 5 ). Sedentary Lifestyle, Excessive Caloric Intake and Insulin Resistance Sedentary lifestyle and excessive caloric intake can lead to increased adiposity which has been associated with increased risk of worsening insulin resistance. Insulin resistance has been linked in turn to an increased vascular oxidative stress, inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction characterized by diminished vascular nitric oxide bioactivity, all of
