Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


of worsening insulin resistance. Insulin resistance has been linked in turn to an increased vascular oxidative stress, inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction characterized by diminished vascular nitric oxide bioactivity, all of which promote vascular stiffness resulting in a persistent elevation of blood pressure and the promotion of CVD ( 6 , 7 ). Elevated Intravascular Volume Intravascular volume is strongly influenced by total body sodium content. Sodium is the major extracellular cation in human beings, and possesses osmotic activity which helps determine effective arterial blood volume. A mismatch between sodium intake and sodium loss can result in a positive sodium balance. The ensuing increase in intravascular sodium concentration stimulates an influx of water along the osmotic gradient, thus raising intravascular volume. Elevated intravascular volume consequently increases venous return to the heart boosting cardiac output in accordance with the Frank Starling Law, and this process eventually leads to elevated arterial pressure ( 8 ). There is also increasing evidence that increased activation of sodium inward transport in endothelial cells contribute to increased vascular stiffness and elevated blood pressure in states of obesity and insulin resistance as exists in most patients with T2DM ( 7 ). Increased blood pressure (BP) from intravascular volume expansion is typically corrected by a rise in glomerular filtration and compensatory urinary salt excretion. This phenomenon of increased salt excretion in a state of elevated blood pressure has been termed pressure natriuresis. Unfortunately, this mechanism alone cannot correct persistently elevated blood pressure, principally because of secondary changes within the kidney microvasculature and maladaptive changes within the glomerular apparatus itself that lower glomerular filtration and stimulate sodium reabsorption. These changes are most apparent in overt chronic kidney disease (CKD) and end stage renal disease (ESRD), both of which are characterized by concurrent volume overload and sustained hypertension. Hypertension in CKD/ESRD is often difficult to control and requires restoration of normal vascular volume, which can be achieved by means of diuretics or dialysis ( 8 , 9 ). Premature Vascular Aging Changes in vessel lumen elasticity affect the ease with which blood can flow through arteries. Minimal reductions in lumen diameter can lead to exponentially increased resistance to blood flow. Patients with hypertension often demonstrate structural and functional changes that adversely alter the lumen of small arteries and arterioles. The vascular remodeling, low grade inflammation, vascular fibrosis and stiffening seen with hypertension in individuals with diabetes can arise as a response
