Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


alter the lumen of small arteries and arterioles. The vascular remodeling, low grade inflammation, vascular fibrosis and stiffening seen with hypertension in individuals with diabetes can arise as a response to elevated BP. Patients with diabetes thus manifest accelerated premature vascular aging characterized by impaired endothelial mediated relaxation, enhanced vascular smooth muscle contraction and resistance as well as vascular stiffness ( 7 ). These maladaptive vascular changes both contribute to the development of hypertension and accelerate the harmful effects of hypertension on vessel integrity ( 8 , 10 ). Autonomic Nervous System Dysregulation The autonomic nervous system is an important determinant of BP. Both the sympathetic and the parasympathetic systems are involved in the regulation of BP. Increased sympathetic activity leads to an increase in heart rate, force of contraction of ventricles, peripheral vascular resistance, and fluid retention. These physiological actions combine to promote BP elevation. Decreased parasympathetic outflow also results in increased heart rate and relative sympathetic hyperactivity thus contributing to an elevation in BP. Dysregulation of these pathways is seen with central obesity, insulin resistance, and sleep apnea. Hypertension associated with these disorders is often accompanied by increased sympathetic activity, an activated RAAS, and resistant hypertension. Furthermore, activation of the sympathetic nervous system also promotes insulin resistance and risk of T2DM. The autonomic dysfunction seen with T2DM can also contribute to these changes and thus worsen hypertension. The relevance of these pathways in the pathogenesis of hypertension and diabetes is demonstrated by the observation that interruption of the central sympathetic outflow by renal denervation is associated with improved insulin sensitivity, better glycemic control, and reductions in BP ( 2 , 8 ). Renin Angiotensin Aldosterone System (RAAS) The RAAS pathway plays a central role in maintaining normal BP. RAAS activation is closely linked to the pathogenesis of hypertension via the cardiovascular and renal effects of elevations, particularly of plasma aldosterone level. Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictor and acts directly to increase vascular smooth muscle tone. Angiotensin II also stimulates secretion of aldosterone, which promotes sodium and water retention, leading to elevated blood pressure through volume expansion. Obesity is associated with elevated plasma aldosterone levels, even in the absence of elevation of angiotensin levels. This elevation is thought to be related, in part, to secretion of aldosterone releasing factors from the expanded adipose tissue ( 7 ). Understanding the physiology of RAAS is essential as it is the
