Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


to be related, in part, to secretion of aldosterone releasing factors from the expanded adipose tissue ( 7 ). Understanding the physiology of RAAS is essential as it is the principal target for angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), and increasingly mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists, which are cornerstones of BP management in individuals with diabetes ( 8 ). Renin is a proteolytic enzyme secreted by the juxtaglomerular cells in the kidney. Renin cleaves circulating angiotensinogen to angiotensin I. ACE within the lung capillaries then converts angiotensin I into angiotensin II. Production and release of renin is tightly regulated by many interdependent factors such as renal perfusion pressure, sodium chloride concentration in distal tubule of nephron, and stimulation of renin secreting cells by the sympathetic nervous system. Physiologic activation of RAAS is seen with renal hypoperfusion due to hypovolemia. Release of renin from the juxtaglomerular apparatus results in a cascade of events, culminating in increased production of angiotensin II. Angiotensin II then raises blood pressure through direct vasoconstriction and by stimulation of aldosterone secretion leading to sodium and water retention and restoration of intravascular volume ( 8 ). Obesity and insulin resistance are associated with inappropriate activation of RAAS and the sympathetic nervous system. Increased adiposity has been linked with high levels of plasma aldosterone suggesting that RAAS may be chronically overactive in obesity ( 7 ). Angiotensin II and aldosterone have been shown to inhibit insulin metabolic signaling in classical insulin sensitive tissues and this likely plays a role in impaired endothelial-mediated vascular relaxation and the development of hypertension. Angiotensin II and aldosterone may also promote insulin resistance through non-genomic mechanisms such as activation of serine kinases and increased serine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate 1, reduced phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase engagement and protein kinase B stimulation, diminished insulin metabolic signaling, and impaired nitric oxide mediated vascular relaxation. ( 11 , 12 ). Increasingly it is recognized that elevated aldosterone in conjunction with hyperinsulinemia, as often exists in obesity and insulin resistance, promote vascular stiffness and associated increases in hypertension and CVD ( 7 ). Renal Dysfunction Renal dysfunction appears to share a reciprocal relationship with hypertension in diabetic individuals. While hypertension itself is recognized as a risk factor for chronic kidney disease in the setting of diabetes, it is important to note that diabetic nephropathy also contributes to development of hypertension. This reciprocal relationship is most obvious in
