Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


for chronic kidney disease in the setting of diabetes, it is important to note that diabetic nephropathy also contributes to development of hypertension. This reciprocal relationship is most obvious in type 1 diabetics without pre-existing hypertension. Longitudinal studies have shown that microalbuminuria precedes hypertension in this population, and the prevalence of hypertension rises progressively with worsening kidney disease, approaching 90% in type 1 diabetics with end stage renal disease. Proposed mechanisms include volume expansion secondary to increased renal sodium reabsorption, peripheral vasoconstriction arising from endothelial dysfunction, dysregulated activation of the RAAS, upregulation of endothelin1, and downregulation of nitric oxide ( 13 ). Role of Innate and Adaptive Immunity There is emerging evidence that innate immunity and acquired immunity are involved in angiotensin II and aldosterone-induced hypertension and vascular disease ( 6 ). Animal studies suggest that intact T cell function is required for full expression of these adverse effects and that T cells and macrophages mediate the oxidative injury associated with these effects. On the other hand, the protective properties of T regulatory cells in animal models suggests a potential therapeutic role for these cells, although at this time such interventions are limited to the research setting. Environmental and Socioeconomic Factors There are marked disparities in hypertension between White and Black Americans. This disparity is increasing despite higher levels of awareness and treatment of their hypertension amongst Black Americans as compared to their White counterparts ( 14 ). This disparity has been magnified with the recent Covid-19 pandemic with disproportionate levels of morbidity and mortality amongst communities of color. Some have suggested that this disparity in Covid outcomes are related to similar environmental, economic, and social inequities as those that promote hypertension, obesity, and diabetes ( 15 ). Foods that are traditionally considered healthy and promoted as components of the DASH diet ( 16 ) are often unavailable to people living in these communities due to either lack of access or reasons of affordability. Instead, they become consumers of cheap high salt and high caloric foods, a process that naturally leads to obesity and hypertension ( 15 ). Furthermore, lack of safe outdoor spaces discourages exercise and targeted advertising increases poor health decisions such as smoking. These effects are further reinforced by a study of Black and White Americans living in the same environmental setting (long term integrated neighborhoods). In the Exploring Health Disparities in Integrated Communities-South Western Baltimore (EHDIC-SWB)
