Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


reinforced by a study of Black and White Americans living in the same environmental setting (long term integrated neighborhoods). In the Exploring Health Disparities in Integrated Communities-South Western Baltimore (EHDIC-SWB) study it was found that although the odds ratio for hypertension was higher in Blacks in the sample population, it was decreased by roughly 30% as compared to NHANES data. The authors concluded that social and environmental exposure explained a substantial proportion of race differences in persons with hypertension and diabetes ( 17 ). BLOOD PRESSURE MEASUREMENT AND MONITORING Accurate measurement of BP is key for both diagnosis and effective management of hypertension. BP measurement is most often conducted in the medical office, where it can be performed either through the auscultatory technique of listening to Korotkoff sounds or the oscillometric technique employed in automated devices. Use of oscillometric devices has largely replaced the auscultatory method primarily for reasons of convenience and concerns over inter-observer variability with manual measurements. However, it is important to remember that even automated measurements can be erroneous if certain precautions are not taken. Measurements should be made in the seated position after the patient has rested for 3-5 minutes, and preferably with an empty bladder. No exertion, physical exercise, eating, smoking or exposure to stress for at least 30 minutes before BP reading. Three readings within a period of 2 weeks will be ideal. The device used should be calibrated regularly to ensure reliable readings. Improper cuff size is a common source of erroneous readings. It is recommended that cuff bladder length be equal to the patient’s arm circumference measured at the midpoint of acromion and olecranon process and the width be equal to about one-half of the arm circumference. Use of a cuff that is too small is more common because of the rising incidence of obesity and results in overestimation of blood pressure. Despite using all these precautions, there can be significant variability between individual readings and American Heart Association (AHA) recommends obtaining at least two readings during each clinic visit ( 18 ). Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) is a fully-automated non-invasive modality that involves placement of a blood pressure cuff on the non-dominant arm with measurements every 15 to 30 minutes over the course of a 24-hour period. Compared to in-office blood pressure measurement, ABPM has higher prognostic value for target organ damage and cardiovascular outcomes ( 19 ). The primary
