Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


over the course of a 24-hour period. Compared to in-office blood pressure measurement, ABPM has higher prognostic value for target organ damage and cardiovascular outcomes ( 19 ). The primary advantage of ABPM lies in its comprehensive nature unlike office monitoring that relies on single measurements. This format permits detection of distinct blood pressure patterns such as sustained, white-coat, masked, and nocturnal hypertension, as well as non-dipping or reverse-dipping patterns that cannot be detected with office measurements alone. These patterns are associated with varying cardiovascular outcomes and must therefore be managed quite differently. White-coat hypertension denotes a situation wherein office measurements are in the hypertensive range but ABPM readings are consistently normal. This phenomenon is attributed to the effect of an observer at the time of measurement; it is associated with minimal cardiovascular risk and is not an indication for antihypertensive therapy. It should be noted however that individuals with white-coat are at elevated risk for developing sustained hypertension and should therefore be monitored periodically. On the other hand, masked hypertension refers to a situation where office measurements are normal but ABPM shows readings in the hypertensive range. This phenomenon is associated with increased cardiovascular risk comparable to that seen with sustained hypertension. Importantly, masked hypertension is more common in diabetic individuals and obese patients. It is assumed that these patients benefit from aggressive antihypertensive therapy although no randomized controlled trials have been performed to confirm such expectations ( 20 ). Blood pressure normally displays a physiologic circadian rhythm, dipping by more than 10% during the night relative to daytime readings. Patients in whom blood pressure drops by less than 10% are said to have a non-dipping pattern. This non-dipping pattern is more prevalent in diabetic individuals and has been associated with cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy. Its contribution to progression of diabetic complications is more controversial. Hyperglycemia itself can influence the normal nocturnal dip through its effect on circulating plasma volume, blood flow distribution and renal hemodynamics ( 21 ). BLOOD PRESSURE TARGETS IN PATIENTS WITH DIABETES The importance of rigorous blood pressure control in prevention of diabetes-related morbidity cannot be overemphasized. This holds true for macrovascular as well as microvascular complications and is supported by a mounting body of evidence. The United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), showed 44, 32, and 34 percent reductions in risks for stroke, diabetes related deaths, and retinopathy respectively with blood pressure reduction (target blood
