Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


The United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), showed 44, 32, and 34 percent reductions in risks for stroke, diabetes related deaths, and retinopathy respectively with blood pressure reduction (target blood pressure <150/85 mm Hg). A linear relationship between systolic blood pressure reduction and adverse outcomes was seen in readings as low as 120 mm Hg ( 22 , 23 ). The Hypertension On Target (HOT) trial showed a reduction in CVD with lowering of diastolic blood pressure. Interestingly however, this benefit was only seen in patients with diabetes, suggesting the need for establishing a different and perhaps more aggressive blood pressure target in this population subgroup ( 24 ). The Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron MR Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial was the first study designed specifically to address blood pressure control in subjects with diabetes. The results were impressive, showing significant reduction in microvascular events, cardiovascular deaths, and all-cause mortality with aggressive reduction in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure (mean achieved blood pressure of 134/74 mm Hg versus 140/76 mm Hg) ( 25 ). Major medical societies including the American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommend a target blood pressure of less than 130/80 mm Hg for patients with diabetes. The first trial to seek justification for this recommendation was the Normotensive Appropriate Blood Pressure Control in Diabetes (ABCD) trial. Although no specific blood pressure target was pursued, the mean attained blood pressure of 128/75 mm Hg in the intensive treatment group, was under the systolic target of 130 mm Hg. Over a follow up of five years, no significant difference was seen in creatinine clearance (primary outcome) or cardiovascular events when compared to the placebo group (mean blood pressure 137/81). The intensive treatment group did manifest significant reductions in progression of retinopathy, albuminuria, and absolute risk of stroke ( 26 , 27 ). The notion of a systolic blood pressure goal of less than 130 mm Hg was challenged by the ACCORD blood pressure trial. This large randomized control trial compared a systolic target of <120 mm Hg (intensive therapy) to a systolic target of <140 mm Hg (standard therapy). With more than 4500 patients and a mean follow up of 4.7 years, no significant difference was seen between the two groups in terms of combined CVD outcomes (heart attack, stroke, and cardiovascular death). Importantly, similar to the results of the ABCD trial, a 40 percent
