Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


was seen between the two groups in terms of combined CVD outcomes (heart attack, stroke, and cardiovascular death). Importantly, similar to the results of the ABCD trial, a 40 percent reduction was seen in stroke risk ( 28 ). This study was confounded by factors that do not allow for recommendations based on the outcomes of this study. The most recent large-scale randomized control trial that examined a lower systolic blood pressure goal was the Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT). This trial compared the benefit of treatment to a systolic blood pressure target of less than 120 mm Hg (intensive-treatment group) with the treatment to a target of less than 140 mm Hg (standard-treatment group). At 1 year, the intensive-treatment group had a mean systolic blood pressure of 121.4 mm Hg versus the standard-treatment group with a mean systolic blood pressure of 136.2 mm Hg. The results showed significantly lower rates of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events and death from any cause in the intensive-treatment group. Serious adverse events possibly or definitely related to the intervention were statistically more frequent in the intensive-treatment group with a hazard ratio of 1.88 (P<0.001). This study included 9361 participants with a median follow up of 3.26 years; however, patients with diabetes were excluded. The SPRINT trial therefore supports a lower goal but cannot be applied directly to the diabetic population because of its study design ( 29 ). Some experts have suggested that the ACCORD trial was underpowered to show a significant difference for the primary endpoint. A recently pooled analysis merged the data from the SPRINT and ACCORD trials and looked at the same primary endpoint that was used in SPRINT. The primary endpoint differed from the ACCORD trial in that it included unstable angina and acute decompensated heart failure in addition to myocardial infarction, stroke and CVD death. The final analysis showed a significant favorable effect for the intensive treatment group in both patients with and without diabetes. This suggests that there may not be a differential beneficial effect of intensive blood pressure lowering (i.e., to less than 130/80 mm Hg) in patients with T2DM ( 30 ). It must also be noted that both the SPRINT and ACCORD trials involved BP measurements under strictly controlled conditions that would be expected to yield lower readings compared to conventional clinic settings. This observation raises questions about whether more liberal targets might
