Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


in patients with diabetes is challenging as these patients can develop resistant hypertension. Moreover, individuals with diabetes have a higher incidence of cardiac and renal comorbidities that can lower tolerance to aggressive antihypertensive therapy. An effective treatment regimen must therefore address all aspects of the complex metabolic derangements seen in this population group ( 4 ). This section will focus chiefly on the treatment of hypertension in association with T2DM. We will examine treatment strategies by drug class, critically reviewing the advantages and disadvantages of each. The importance of accurately measuring BP and using proper techniques needs to be emphasized, especially considering the lifelong implications for the patient. Once a diagnosis of hypertension has been established in a patient with diabetes, it is imperative that aggressive treatment be initiated in a timely manner. It is also worth noting that with some exceptions, the degree of blood pressure reduction achieved is of greater importance than the class of antihypertensive employed. The various classes of antihypertensive drug that are commonly employed in diabetic individuals are summarized in table 2 . The overall approach to hypertension in a diabetic patient is outlined in figure 1 . Figure 1. Approach to hypertension in the diabetic patient Table 2. Summary of Antihypertensive Agents with Emphasis on Patients with Diabetes View in own window Class with representative examples Preferred use Notable side effects Contraindications Effect on insulin resistance and/or glycemic control ACE inhibitor* Lisinopril Ramipril Benazepril Diabetics Also preferred in: Proteinuric CKD HFrEF Established CAD Hyperkalemia Acute kidney injury (up to 25% rise in creatinine is expected) Angioedema Cough Teratogenicity Pregnancy Avoid concomitant use with aliskiren or ARB Improved ARB Telmisartan Valsartan Losartan Irbesartan Candesartan Diabetics who are intolerant of ACE inhibitors Also preferred in: Proteinuric CKD HFrEF Established CAD Hyperkalemia Acute kidney injury (up to 25% rise in creatinine is expected) Teratogenicity Pregnancy Avoid concomitant use with aliskiren or ACE inhibitor Improved Direct renin inhibitor** Aliskiren Diabetics with proteinuric CKD who are intolerant of both ACE inhibitors and ARBs Hyperkalemia Acute kidney injury Teratogenicity Pregnancy Avoid concomitant use with ACE inhibitor or ARB Unknown Thiazide-like diuretic Chlorthalidone Indapamide HCTZ Hypervolemic or edematous patients Must be used before diagnosing “resistant hypertension” Photosensitivity Hyponatremia Hypokalemia Hypomagnesemia Hyperuricemia Orthostatic hypotension Pregnancy Use with caution in cirrhotic patients (risk of hyponatremia) Ineffective in advanced CKD-GFR<30 Worsened with HCTZ Indapamide has positive effect Dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker* Nicardipine Amlodipine Patients
