Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


modification has modest antihypertensive effects, yielding an effective blood pressure reduction of 5-10 mm Hg. Nevertheless, ancillary benefits of improved cardiovascular fitness, reduced adiposity, and the possibility of future reduction in medication doses make such interventions an indispensable part of the management of these patients. Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitors ACE inhibitors inhibit the angiotensin converting enzyme and thus prevent conversion of angiotensin 1 to angiotensin II. This along with other mechanisms leads to decreased peripheral resistance and lowering of BP. ACE inhibitors selectively dilate the efferent renal arterioles and therefore lower intraglomerular pressure. This hemodynamic effect is reno-protective in patients with diabetic kidney disease. An acute rise in serum creatinine may occur at the onset of ACE inhibitor therapy. Elevation of serum creatinine by up to 30% above baseline is acceptable and does not mandate stopping therapy but does underscore the need for careful monitoring. The beneficial effects of ACE inhibitors on renal and cardiac function are widely recognized ( 31 , 32 , 33 ) and these agents are prescribed almost reflexively as initial antihypertensive treatment in patients with concomitant diabetes and hypertension ( 34 ). However, it must be noted that the primary advantage of ACE inhibitors over other classes of antihypertensive agents, lies in their proven ability to slow the progression of proteinuria. ACE inhibitors possess a favorable side effect profile and are well-tolerated in general. Use of these agents is not associated with adverse alterations in lipid profile, glucose levels, and uric acid levels, such as those seen with other antihypertensive agents. As noted above creatinine elevation is frequently observed and should not require cessation of therapy unless excessive. On the other hand, dry persistent cough, another common side effect, is a reasonable cause for discontinuation of therapy. Patients with long standing diabetes, diabetic nephropathy, and hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism/ type 4 renal tubular acidosis can develop hyperkalemia with these drugs. Angioedema – a severe hypersensitivity reaction more commonly observed in the African American population, is also associated with ACE inhibitor use and the drug should be permanently discontinued in such patients. Further, ACE inhibitors have teratogenic potential by interfering with fetal kidney development and caution must be exercised while using ACE inhibitors in females of child bearing age ( 33 ). Due to their potential benefits and favorable risk benefit profile, ACE inhibitors have been established as the benchmark by which newer classes of antihypertensive agents are
