Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


age ( 33 ). Due to their potential benefits and favorable risk benefit profile, ACE inhibitors have been established as the benchmark by which newer classes of antihypertensive agents are judged, especially in patients with diabetes and diabetic kidney disease. Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) ARBs exert similar salutary effects as ACE inhibitors, by displacing angiotensin II from its receptor. The main advantage of ARBs over ACE inhibitors is the lower incidence of cough and angioedema with their use. The ONTARGET trial compared the ARB telmisartan to the ACE inhibitor Ramipril and the combined use of these drugs. This trial established general non-inferiority of telmisartan compared to ramipril with regards to BP control as judged by outcomes such as cardiovascular deaths, myocardial infarction, stroke, and hospitalization for heart failure. Additionally, the telmisartan arm had substantially lower rates of cough and angioedema. Data from the ONTARGET trial also showed that although both telmisartan and ramipril offered equivalent renal protection, the combined use of these two drugs led to inferior renal outcomes ( 35 ). A combination of ACE inhibitors and ARBs is therefore not recommended at this time. As with ACE inhibitors, hyperkalemia remains a potential adverse effect. The risk of hyperkalemia can be attenuated by combining these agents with other medications like thiazide or loop diuretics which promote urinary potassium loss. ARBs used to cost substantially more than ACE inhibitors but the advent of generic ARB’s have addressed this concern. Today ARBs are a popular choice for treatment of hypertension, and for prevention of renal complications in patients with diabetes, and are the preferred treatment in patients who develop a cough with ACE inhibitors ( 34 ). Diuretics Diuretics transiently decrease blood pressure by boosting renal sodium excretion and consequently lowering plasma volume. Overtime, these changes in volume status revert back to normal, but the antihypertensive effect persists due to a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance. Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) and related sulfonamide compounds (chlorthalidone) are effective for blood pressure management in patients with mild to moderate hypertension and eGFR >50. In patients with eGFR <30, loop diuretics or a combination of loop diuretics and thiazides are more efficacious ( 34 ). Data from the Swedish Trial in Old Patients with Hypertension-2 (STOP Hypertension-2) trial demonstrated that diuretics were as efficacious as ACE inhibitors or calcium channel blockers (CCBs) in lowering BP and reducing cardiovascular mortality in patients with diabetes ( 36 ).
