Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


Hypertension-2) trial demonstrated that diuretics were as efficacious as ACE inhibitors or calcium channel blockers (CCBs) in lowering BP and reducing cardiovascular mortality in patients with diabetes ( 36 ). Use of diuretics is associated with metabolic derangements like hypokalemia, hyperglycemia, and hyperuricemia. Once again, the risk of hypokalemia associated with diuretic use can be mitigated by combining a diuretic with medications, like an ACE inhibitor, ARB, potassium-sparing diuretic, or aldosterone antagonist ( 37 ). Patients with T2DM and concomitant hypertension also demonstrate impaired nocturnal BP dipping compared to patients without diabetes. Chlorthalidone, with its longer duration of action and higher potency might be a better choice to treat hypertension in this subgroup of patients ( 38 ). Calcium Channel Blockers (CCBs) CCBs are sub-classified as Dihydropyridines (DHPs) (amlodipine, felodipine, isradipine, nicardipine, nifedipine) and non-DHPs (NDHPs) (verapamil, diltiazem). DHPs exert their antihypertensive activity through peripheral vasodilatation, without significantly affecting cardiac conduction and contractility. NDHPs also have a modest antihypertensive effect, but they affect cardiac automaticity and conduction, and hence are primarily used for management of arrhythmias ( 34 ). The strongest evidence for CCB use over other classes of antihypertensive drugs comes from the Avoiding Cardiovascular Events through Combination Therapy in Patients Living with Systolic Hypertension (ACCOMPLISH) trial. This trial was designed to compare benazepril plus amlodipine to benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide in subjects with hypertension and a high risk of cardiovascular events, and showed fewer cardiovascular events in the CCB/ACE combination arm when compared to the ACE/Diuretic combination arm ( 39 ). These results are not in line with those of ALLHAT trial which found that ACE inhibitors, CCBs and alpha-blockers were not superior to thiazide diuretics for either BP control or improvement of cardiovascular or renal outcomes ( 40 ). Regardless of these conflicting results, the available evidence positions calcium channel blockers in line with ACE/ARBs and thiazides for treatment of hypertension in patients at high risk for cardiovascular events. CCB’s are well tolerated by most patients. Common side effects include headache, peripheral edema, and flushing ( 41 ). Adrenergic Receptor Antagonist The adrenergic receptor antagonists have been sub-classified into three categories: beta-blockers, alpha-blockers, and combined alpha and beta-blockers. Alpha-beta blockers like carvedilol and labetalol produce greater reductions in BP compared to pure beta blockers ( 34 ). Beta-blockers have gained popularity due to mortality benefits in patients with heart failure and in patients who have sustained a myocardial
