Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


BP compared to pure beta blockers ( 34 ). Beta-blockers have gained popularity due to mortality benefits in patients with heart failure and in patients who have sustained a myocardial infarction. Despite lack of robust evidence, beta- blockers are widely used for primary prevention of myocardial infarction as well. Use of beta-blockers can be associated with precipitation of bronchospasm, worsening peripheral arterial disease, sexual dysfunction, and worsening of glycemic control. Of particular concern is the decreased perception of hypoglycemia symptoms in patients with diabetes ( 42 ). Beta-blockers are also known to alter insulin resistance and lipid metabolism – properties that are especially relevant in diabetic individuals. However, these effects vary across individual drugs and are more often seen with older non-vasodilatory beta-blockers such as atenolol, metoprolol and propranolol. For instance, a randomized control trial comparing metoprolol and carvedilol in patients with T2DM demonstrated that metoprolol was associated with worsened glycemic control compared to carvedilol at doses titrated to achieve comparable BP control ( 43 ). The same study also revealed that carvedilol had beneficial impacts on lipid profile with lowering of total cholesterol, triglycerides and non-HDL cholesterol. In contrast, metoprolol use was associated with increased need for lipid lowering therapy with statins ( 44 ). Similarly, labetalol and nebivolol, highly selective beta-1-blockers with nitric oxide dependent vasodilatory properties have been shown to improve insulin resistance ( 45 ). Unopposed activation of the alpha-adrenergic system has been proposed as a putative mechanism ( 46 ). Nebivolol also decreases cellular stiffness and stimulates endothelial cell growth causing improved endothelial function ( 47 ). Mineralocorticoid Receptor Antagonists Steroidal mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) antagonists (spironolactone and eplerenone) and new non-steroidal antagonists such as finerenone are particularly efficacious in those with resistant hypertension, which is more common in persons with obesity and diabetes ( 7 ). They also lower mortality in patients with heart failure by blocking the deleterious effects of aldosterone on cardiac remodeling. Addition of finerenone to patients receiving ACE inhibitors or ARB reduced urinary albumin excretion compared to placebo. The FIDELIO-DKD trial also showed improved cardiovascular outcomes and reduced progression of kidney disease with finerenone ( 48 ). Hyperkalemia is a common side effect of steroidal MR antagonists, and monitoring for hyperkalemia is of particular importance, as MR antagonists are often added to an ACE inhibitor or an ARB. This is less of a problem with the newer non-steroidal MR antagonists (
