Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


is of particular importance, as MR antagonists are often added to an ACE inhibitor or an ARB. This is less of a problem with the newer non-steroidal MR antagonists ( 49 ). Gynecomastia and menstrual irregularities are other potential adverse effects seen with spironolactone. Eplerenone is a more selective aldosterone antagonist and it seldom causes anti-androgenic effects. It is likely that the newer non-steroidal MR antagonist will negate many of these concerns, and they will likely be increasingly used for treatment of hypertension in patients with diabetes. Direct Renin Inhibitors Aliskiren, a first in class direct renin inhibitor was approved by FDA in 2007. It is an effective antihypertensive agent and provides end-organ protection, but its exact place in the hypertension treatment algorithm remains uncertain. Aliskiren improves left ventricular hypertrophy, and shows synergism when used in combination with ARB. Its side effect profile is similar to ARBs and monitoring of potassium levels is recommended ( 34 ). The Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints (ALTITUDE) trial was a randomized control trial evaluating the efficacy of Aliskiren in combination with ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients with T2DM. It was prematurely halted because of increased cardiovascular events and safety concerns. Additionally, there was more hyperkalemia and hypotension with the combination ( 50 ). It is possible that these adverse events were related to use of combination therapy analogous to the ONTARGET trial. At this time, Aliskiren should not be used in combination with ACE inhibitors or ARBs for management of hypertension in patients with T2DM. Aliskiren may be used for its antiproteinuric effect in patients who are intolerant of both ACE inhibitors and ARBs. DIABETES MEDICATIONS WITH ANTIHYPERTENSIVE EFFECTS Several anti-diabetic medications possess modest antihypertensive properties. These should be kept in mind especially in patients concurrently receiving antihypertensive drugs who may experience hypotensive symptoms if caution is not exercised. On the other hand, several of these drugs provide cardiovascular protection, likely in part from their antihypertensive effects that make them attractive options for patients at increased cardiovascular risk. Anti-diabetic medications with these properties include thiazolidinediones, dipeptidyl diphosphatase (DPP-4) inhibitors, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, and sodium glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT 2) inhibitors. Of these classes, GLP-1 receptor agonists appear to exert the largest effect on blood pressure ( 51 ). In a metanalysis of 16 randomized control trials comparing the GLP-1 agonists exenatide and
