Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


classes, GLP-1 receptor agonists appear to exert the largest effect on blood pressure ( 51 ). In a metanalysis of 16 randomized control trials comparing the GLP-1 agonists exenatide and liraglutide to placebo as well as other antihyperglycemic agents, BP reduction was seen. Against placebo, exenatide lowered systolic BP by approximately 6 mm Hg. Similarly, a mean reduction of about 5 mm Hg in systolic BP was seen with liraglutide versus placebo ( 52 ). A randomized control trial studying the hemodynamic effects of dulaglutide also showed a reduction in systolic BP regardless of baseline readings ( 53 ). The other classes of anti-hyperglycemic medications have shown reductions in systolic BP of less than 5 mm Hg ( 51 ). Due to their sodium and volume lowering properties, the SGLT2 inhibitors were looked at early on for effects on BP. In phase 2 and 3 trials, canagliflozin and dapagliflozin showed modest reductions in BP, just under 4 mm Hg ( 54 , 55 ). A recent meta-analysis confirmed this finding across all other major SGLT2 inhibitors currently on the market with a mean reduction of 3.6/1.7 mm Hg in blood pressure as compared to placebo. This reduction is comparable to that seen with low dose hydrochlorothiazide ( 56 ). The exact mechanism of BP reduction is not completely understood but is postulated to be mediated by osmotic diuresis, natriuresis, and weight loss ( 57 , 58 ). Importantly, these agents have been shown to have CVD and renal disease reducing properties in patients with diabetes ( 54 , 59 , 60 ). IMPACT OF COMORBIDITIES ON CHOICE OF ANTIHYPERTENSIVE REGIMEN Despite advances in diagnosis and management, a significant proportion of diabetic individuals develop microvascular and macrovascular complications throughout their lifetime. Indeed, many patients present with advanced complications at diagnosis. These comorbidities must be considered when choosing an antihypertensive regimen because of ancillary benefits and potential for harm. Proteinuria and chronic kidney disease are most responsive to ACE inhibitors and ARBs and these agents are considered standard of care for such patients. On the other hand, beta-blockers have demonstrated benefit in the settings of established coronary artery disease and heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) but have no proven mortality benefit in their absence. Their use should therefore be restricted to the appropriate settings. Beta-blockers may exacerbate peripheral arterial disease due to reflex vasoconstriction and are best avoided in such
