Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


benefit in their absence. Their use should therefore be restricted to the appropriate settings. Beta-blockers may exacerbate peripheral arterial disease due to reflex vasoconstriction and are best avoided in such patients. Beta-blockers should also be avoided in patients with a history of brittle diabetes and frequent hypoglycemia because of their ability to mask symptoms of hypoglycemia and thus contribute to hypoglycemia unawareness. Mineralocorticoid antagonists have shown proven benefits in HFrEF and should be included in antihypertensive regimens for diabetics with heart failure. RESISTANT HYPERTENSION Resistant hypertension is defined as BP greater than 140/90 mm Hg despite a therapeutic strategy that includes appropriate lifestyle modifications along with a diuretic and two other antihypertensive drugs from different classes, administered at optimal doses. It poses a special therapeutic challenge for endocrinologists. It is important to keep in mind that a number of other conditions need to be excluded before diagnosing resistant hypertension. Medication non-adherence must always be ruled out and barriers such as cost and side effects should be addressed. White coat hypertension can be remarkably resistant to therapy or alternatively be associated with intolerable side effects at home, leading to medication non-adherence and can be assessed by means of ABPM. Finally, secondary causes of hypertension should be looked for. The list of causes for secondary hypertension is extensive and includes such diverse disorders as renal artery stenosis, hyperaldosteronism, obstructive sleep apnea, and illicit drug use. Of special interest to the consulting endocrinologist are the various endocrine disorders that manifest with hypertension including primary hyperaldosteronism, pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas, Cushing’s syndrome, and hypo- and hyperthyroidism. Many of these disorders are characterized by distinct clinical presentations, and an exhaustive and expensive evaluation should be discouraged in the absence of supportive signs and symptoms. Obstructive sleep apnea deserves special mention because of its close association with diabetes and obesity and must always be considered in patients with resistant hypertension. Once diagnosed, secondary hypertension is often amenable to specific therapies with immediate improvement in BP. After confirming a diagnosis of resistant hypertension and excluding possible secondary causes, pharmacological therapy with addition of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists is typically the most effective intervention. These agents are effective in patients with T2DM when added to existing treatment with an ACE inhibitor or ARB, diuretic and calcium channel blocker. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists also reduce proteinuria and have additional cardiovascular benefits as noted above. However, adding a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist to a
