Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


inhibitor or ARB, diuretic and calcium channel blocker. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists also reduce proteinuria and have additional cardiovascular benefits as noted above. However, adding a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist to a regimen that already includes an ACE inhibitor or ARB increases the risk for hyperkalemia. Therefore, these patients need regular monitoring of serum creatinine and potassium. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN TYPE 1 DIABETES Patients with type 1 diabetes currently make up about 5% to 8% of the total diabetes population in the US ( 1 ). In contrast to patients with T2DM, patients with type 1 diabetes typically develop renal disease before developing hypertension. Longitudinal studies of type 1 diabetics consistently show development of proteinuria prior to onset of hypertension ( 13 ). However, once hypertension has developed, it accelerates the course of microvascular and macrovascular disease similar to patients with T2DM. Unfortunately, there is limited data on type 1 diabetics. A randomized trial has demonstrated that an ACE inhibitor protects against deterioration in renal function in insulin-dependent diabetic nephropathy and is significantly more effective than blood-pressure control alone ( 69 ). Therefore, guidelines for antihypertensive therapy in these patients are extrapolated from patients with T2DM, such as a preference for therapy with an ACE inhibitor or ARB. Furthermore, as tight glycemic control with insulin is the cornerstone of management of these patients, beta-blockers should be avoided because of their propensity to promote hypoglycemia and their ability to mask symptoms of hypoglycemia ( 61 ). Perhaps the most distinctive aspect of hypertension in type 1 diabetes relates to the role of glycemic control in its prevention. Data from the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and the Epidemiology of Diabetes Intervention and Complications (EDIC) trials showed that intensive therapy reduced incident hypertension by 24% over a 15 year follow up period ( 62 ). Interestingly the reduction in incident hypertension was not seen while the subjects were actually on intensive control but only appeared years later, suggesting that the connection between hyperglycemia and hypertension is not direct but rather is mediated through chronic complications of diabetes such as diabetic nephropathy. COVID-19 AND ANTIHYPERTENSIVE THERAPY IN INDIVIDUALS WITH DIABETES The ongoing novel SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has disproportionately affected individuals with multiple medical comorbidities. For instance, a large observational study from China showed that up to 23.7% of patients with severe infection had hypertension and 16.2% had diabetes compared to just 13.4% and
