Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


comorbidities. For instance, a large observational study from China showed that up to 23.7% of patients with severe infection had hypertension and 16.2% had diabetes compared to just 13.4% and 5.7% respectively, of patients with non-severe infection ( 63 ). The higher incidence of adverse outcomes seen with COVID-19 in patients with hypertension and diabetes is now believed to be related not only to the direct immunosuppressive effects of these comorbidities but also to common underlying socioeconomic themes such as lack of access to quality healthcare and healthy foods ( 64 ). Further research on COVID-19 infection in this subset of patients led to questions on the role of ACE inhibitors and ARBs in its pathogenesis. Specifically, the observation that the novel coronavirus binds to human cells via the angiotensin converting enzyme 2 raised concerns that medications like ACE inhibitors and ARBs that increase levels of this enzyme might accelerate infection with the novel coronavirus. However, at this time there are no clinical data to support this hypothesis and the European Society of Cardiology Council on Hypertension, the American College of Cardiology (ACC)/ American Heart Association (AHA)/ Heart Failure Society of America (HFSA) and the American Society of Hypertension have all released policy statements strongly recommending that patients continue treatment with their usual antihypertensive regimen. Therefore, at this time, recognizing the multiple benefits obtained with these classes of medications in patients with diabetes or hypertension, it is not advisable to discontinue therapy simply because of COVID-19 infection ( 65 ). RECENT GUIDELINES The high blood pressure clinical practice guidelines released by the ACC/AHA Task Force in 2017 redefined hypertension as a blood pressure greater than 130/80 mm Hg and eliminated the category of pre-hypertension altogether. By lowering the threshold for diagnosis, this new definition immediately reclassifies a large proportion of individuals with diabetes as hypertensive, and consequently raises the incidence and prevalence of hypertension in the diabetic population. These guidelines recommend that pharmacologic therapy be initiated in patients with diabetes who have a blood pressure of greater than 130/80 mm Hg as it is assumed that they have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. In the general population it is recommended that the 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk be calculated. Pharmacotherapy should be initiated in those with an ASCVD risk of greater than ten percent when the blood pressure is greater than 130/80 mm Hg while the remainder can
