Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


calculated. Pharmacotherapy should be initiated in those with an ASCVD risk of greater than ten percent when the blood pressure is greater than 130/80 mm Hg while the remainder can be treated with lifestyle modification alone ( 66 ). The position statement on cardiovascular risk management in diabetes released by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) in 2021 retains the traditional cut off of 140/90 mm Hg for diagnosis of hypertension among individuals with diabetes. Just like the ACC/AHA guidelines, the ADA guidelines incorporate the ASCVD risk calculator in their treatment algorithm. The ADA guidelines differ however, in that the score is used to determine the target blood pressure. Thus, individuals with diabetes who have a score below fifteen percent have a target blood pressure of less than 140/90 mm Hg while individuals with a score greater than fifteen percent should aim for less than 130/80 mm Hg if such a goal can be safely achieved. This approached is based on observations from the SPRINT and other trials that the absolute benefit from BP reduction correlated with absolute baseline cardiovascular risk. These guidelines also emphasize the importance of individualized treatment targets and considering patient preferences and provider judgement when setting blood pressure goals ( 67 ). Both the ACC/AHA guidelines and the ADA guidelines recommend pharmacologic therapy with two drugs belonging to different classes in patients with stage 2 hypertension, defined as a blood pressure greater than 160/100 mm Hg. This recommendation is based on evidence from multiple trials showing that combination therapy is safe and more efficacious than monotherapy in achieving blood pressure control. Combination therapy also leads to faster lowering of blood pressure and accelerates achievement of target levels, minimizing target organ damage in patients with stage 2 hypertension. The ADA guidelines also support use of single pill fixed dose combinations to maximize patient adherence. However, it should be noted that single pill combinations are often difficult to titrate, leading to suboptimal dosing of one component because of intolerance to maximal dosing of the other. This is especially relevant for ACE-inhibitors, ARBs and beta-blockers that show dose dependent benefits and should always be up titrated to maximally tolerated doses. SUMMARY Adequate treatment of hypertension in patients with diabetes is critical for prevention of end-organ damage and limiting the massive socioeconomic burden imposed by these disorders. However, despite an abundance of evidence supporting tight control of blood pressure in diabetic
