Hypertension in Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, hypertension, patients, blood, pressure, blood pressure, pubmed, trial, cardiovascular, control, disease, ace, risk, inhibitors, treatment


critical for prevention of end-organ damage and limiting the massive socioeconomic burden imposed by these disorders. However, despite an abundance of evidence supporting tight control of blood pressure in diabetic individuals, it is sobering to note that BP targets are not met in the majority. Indeed, a larger retrospective registry-based study showed that as recently as 2018 only 48% of adults with diabetes were able to achieve a blood pressure of less than 130/80 mm Hg ( 68 ). Barriers to achieving good control include poor access to quality healthcare, lack of awareness among patients and providers, and concerns about side effects of tight control especially among older and frail individuals. Judicious selection of therapy and consideration of relevant side-effect profiles is paramount. The potential for both beneficial and detrimental drug interactions should be kept in mind and drug combinations should be chosen after due deliberation. ACE inhibitors and ARBs continue to enjoy a special place in the management of hypertension in patients with diabetes and remain the preferred agents in this population subgroup. Combined use of these agents, however, is not recommended due to poor renal outcomes and hyperkalemia. The ancillary antihypertensive effects of antidiabetic medications should also be considered when designing an optimal regimen. Goal blood pressure in patients with diabetes remains a subject of active discussion. This is reflected in the divergent recommendations offered by major organizations as noted above. While the evidence for lowering of blood pressure to a target of 140/90 mm Hg is unequivocal, the benefits of further intensification of therapy are less clear and must be balanced against the risk of adverse events such as falls, electrolyte abnormalities, and renal failure. Moreover, BP measurement protocols applied in trial settings can yield lower readings than comparable measurements in real world clinic settings, raising questions of whether such tight control is truly needed. A nuanced approach based on cardiovascular risk factors, comorbidities and patient preferences is encouraged. REFERENCES 1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2020. Atlanta, GA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S. Dept of Health and Human Services; 2020. 2. Oparil S, Zaman MA, Calhoun DA. Pathogenesis of hypertension. Ann Intern Med. 2003; 139 (9):761–776. [ PubMed : 14597461 ] 3. The effect of intensive treatment of diabetes on the development and progression of long-term complications in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Research Group.
