Diabetes Insipidus (AVP-Deficiency and AVP Resistance)
KEYWORDS: avp-d, avp, plasma, urine, osmolality, pituitary, renal, thirst, intake, water, figure, fluid, day, plasma osmolality, ddavp


For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . CLINICAL RECOGNITION Diabetes Insipidus (DI) is the excess production of dilute urine. Because of the confusion with Diabetes Mellitus, there has been a move to renaming this to AVP-Deficiency (AVP-D; Central Diabetes Insipidus) and AVP-Resistance (AVP-R; Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus). Diagnosis requires a targeted history, examination, and confirmation through appropriate laboratory and radiological investigations. AVP-D and AVP-R present with polyuria and polydipsia. Urine output is more than 50 ml/kg /24 hours in adults and more than 100 ml/kg/24 hours in children. The condition reflects either the lack of production or action of the posterior pituitary hormone vasopressin (AVP). There are three subtypes. • AVP-Deficiency (Cranial or hypothalamic DI; HDI): due to relative or absolute lack of AVP. • AVP-Resistance (Nephrogenic DI; NDI): due to partial or total resistance to the renal antidiuretic effects of AVP. • Primary Polydipsia (PP; Dipsogenic DI; DDI): where polyuria is secondary to excessive, inappropriate fluid intake. All forms are rare. AVP-D has an estimated prevalence of 1/25,000. While presentation is more common in adults, familial forms characteristically present in childhood. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The Physiology of AVP A VP is a nine-amino acid peptide made within magnocellular neurons of the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei of the hypothalamus that project through the hypophyseal portal tract to terminate in the posterior pituitary, where AVP is released into the circulation. Together, the PVN, SON and posterior pituitary form an anatomical and functional unit- the neurohypophysis ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. The Neurohypophysis. AVP is produced from a large precursor that undergoes extensive post-translational processing ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Post-Translational Processing of Vasopressin. The major action of AVP is in the regulation of renal water excretion. AVP increases expression of the AVP-dependent water channel Aquaporin 2, which is expressed in the renal collecting duct, facilitating water reabsorption. This action of AVP is mediated by the type 2 AVP receptor (V2-R), expressed exclusively on the interstitial surface of target cells in the distal nephron. AVP release is regulated by osmoreceptors within the lamina terminalis. There is a linear relationship between plasma osmolality and plasma AVP concentration. Not unexpectedly, thirst perception is regulated in a parallel manner ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. The Physiological Regulation of AVP Production and Thirst by Plasma Osmolality. AVP-Deficiency Presentation with AVP-D implies loss of 80%-90%
