Diabetes Insipidus (AVP-Deficiency and AVP Resistance)
KEYWORDS: avp-d, avp, plasma, urine, osmolality, pituitary, renal, thirst, intake, water, figure, fluid, day, plasma osmolality, ddavp


regulated in a parallel manner ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. The Physiological Regulation of AVP Production and Thirst by Plasma Osmolality. AVP-Deficiency Presentation with AVP-D implies loss of 80%-90% of AVP production from the posterior pituitary. This, in turn, reflects either destruction of vasopressinergic magnocellular neurons in the hypothalamus or interruption of intra-axonal transport/processing of AVP. Some 50% of children and young adults with AVP-D have an underlying tumor or CNS malformation (e.g. craniopharyngioma, germinoma, septo-optic dysplasia). Familial AVP-D comprises 5% of cases. Acute AVP-D can occur in up to 22% of non-selected patients presenting with traumatic brain injury (TBI), persisting in some 30% of these on long term follow up. AVP-D may follow trauma to the pituitary or hypothalamus. AVP-D following surgery to the pituitary or neurohypophysis presents within 24-48h after surgery and is often transient, resolving within 10 days. Pituitary stalk trauma (including that following surgery) may lead to a tri-phasic disturbance in water balance; an immediate polyuria due to AVP-D followed by a more prolonged period of antidiuresis suggestive of AVP excess. The antidiuretic phase may last several weeks and can be followed by reversion to AVP-D or recovery. AVP-D presenting with a pituitary mass should raise concerns about a diagnosis other than pituitary adenoma. AVP-D can worsen in pregnancy due to increased degradation of AVP by placental enzyme activity. Table 1. Etiology of AVP-D View in own window Primary Genetic Wolfram syndrome Autosomal dominant Autosomal recessive Developmental syndromes Septo-optic dysplasia Idiopathic Secondary/acquired Trauma Head injury Post-surgery Tumor Craniopharyngioma Germinoma Metastases Pituitary macroadenoma Inflammatory Sarcoidosis, Histiocytosis, Meningitis, Encephalitis, Infundibuloneurohypophysitis, Guillain–Barré syndrome, Autoimmune AVP-Resistance Renal resistance to AVP may reflect a toxic renal tubulopathy secondary to metabolic (e.g. hypokalemia; hypercalcemia), medical disorders (e.g. sarcoidosis, amyloidosis, sickle cell anemia, multiple myeloma, etc.), or drug effects (e.g. lithium, demeclocycline, cisplatin, etc.). Prolonged polyuria of any cause can result in partial AVP-R through disruption of the intra-renal solute gradients and reduced tubular concentrating capacity. X-linked familial AVP-R results from loss-of-function mutations in the renal AVP receptor ( Figure 4 ). Autosomal recessive AVP-R is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the AVP-dependent renal water channel aquaporin-2. Figure 4. Loss of Function Mutations of the V2 Receptor in X-Linked Nephrogenic DI. Primary Polydipsia Persistent high fluid intake leads to appropriate polyuria. If intake exceeds the limit of renal free water excretion, hyponatremia may result. Primary Polydipsia can be associated with abnormalities in
