Diabetes Insipidus (AVP-Deficiency and AVP Resistance)
KEYWORDS: avp-d, avp, plasma, urine, osmolality, pituitary, renal, thirst, intake, water, figure, fluid, day, plasma osmolality, ddavp


Polydipsia Persistent high fluid intake leads to appropriate polyuria. If intake exceeds the limit of renal free water excretion, hyponatremia may result. Primary Polydipsia can be associated with abnormalities in thirst perception. • Low threshold for thirst. • Exaggerated thirst response to osmotic challenge. • Inability to suppress thirst at low plasma osmolalities. Neuroimaging is normal in most cases. Primary Polydipsia is associated with affective disorders. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL History and examination may reveal important clinical information • Features of systemic disease. • Associated endocrinopathy: suggestive of additional hypothalamic or pituitary dysfunction. • Neuro-ophthalmic problems suggestive of structural disease. • Evidence of drug toxicity (e.g. lithium, phenytoin). There should be a standard initial diagnostic approach. • Confirmation of true polyuria, distinct from simple frequency without excess urine volume. • Exclusion of common differentials such as drug (diuretics) and metabolic causes (hyperglycemia, hypercalcemia hypokalemia). If polyuria is confirmed and simple causes are excluded, the clinician should consider a copeptin-based test which is a direct assessment of AVP production and action in response to osmolar stress or a Water Deprivation Test ( Table 2 ). Copeptin is one of the peptides contained within pre-pro-vasopressin and is a good surrogate marker of AVP production. A basal copeptin < 4.9pmol/L in the context of other pituitary hormone loss and nocturia suggests that AVP-D may be present. Dynamic stimulation of copeptin reserve with a hypertonic saline test is the most accurate assessment, with arginine stimulation being less reliable test but easier to perform (see Endotext chapter entitled “Diagnostic Testing for Diabetes Insipidus”). The water deprivation test is an indirect assessment of the AVP axis, measuring renal concentrating capacity in response to dehydration. It can be followed by assessment of renal response to the synthetic AVP analogue DDAVP, to determine whether any defect identified in urine concentrating ability can be corrected with AVP-replacement. Table 2. Water Deprivation Test View in own window Step 1 - Dehydration phase Aim Differentiate HDI and NDI from DDI Procedure Restrict all fluids between 8am-4pm in a controlled environment. Take baseline and 2 hourly measurements of weight, urine volume, urine osmolality and plasma osmolality. Abandon test if thirst becomes unbearable or if patient loses >5% initial weight. Analysis HDI and NDI: Urine osmolality <300mOsm/kg Plasma osmolality >290mOsm/kg DDI: Urine and plasma osmolality normal Step 2 – DDAVP (desmopressin) response phase Aim Differentiate HDI from NDI Procedure At 4pm, administer desmopressin bolus
