Diabetes Insipidus (AVP-Deficiency and AVP Resistance)
KEYWORDS: avp-d, avp, plasma, urine, osmolality, pituitary, renal, thirst, intake, water, figure, fluid, day, plasma osmolality, ddavp


Urine osmolality <300mOsm/kg Plasma osmolality >290mOsm/kg DDI: Urine and plasma osmolality normal Step 2 – DDAVP (desmopressin) response phase Aim Differentiate HDI from NDI Procedure At 4pm, administer desmopressin bolus (1mcg, intramuscular). Allow fluid intake up to 2x the volume of urine output in step 1. Continue to measure urine volume, urine osmolality and plasma osmolality every hour until 8pm. Measure plasma osmolality and plasma sodium at 9am the next morning. Interpretation AVP-D: Urine osmolality >750 mOsm/kg AVP-R: Urine osmolality remains low HDI- hypothalamic DI, NDI- nephrogenic DI, DDI- Dipsogenic DI. Further Investigations Water deprivation test results may be indeterminate. If AVP-D is suspected but diagnostic tests are inconclusive, a reasonable approach is a therapeutic trial of 10-20 mcg intranasal DDAVP per day with close monitoring of plasma Na + . Patients with AVP-D note improved symptoms without significant dilutional hyponatremia. Confirmation of AVP-D should lead to further pituitary function testing and cranial MRI. MRI may reveal the absence of posterior pituitary bright spot on T1- weighted sequences ( Figure 5 ), or a pituitary mass. In the absence of a structural problem, the MRI should be repeated 12 months after presentation to exclude a slow growing mass lesion. AVP-R requires renal tract imaging and additional renal studies. Figure 5. MRI Appearance of the Posterior Pituitary in Hypothalamic/Cranial DI. Diabetes Insipidus Combined with Defects in Thirst (Adipsic AVP-D) While the regulation of thirst and AVP are discrete, the close neuroanatomical relationship of the structures responsible for osmoregulation of both processes means that some structural, neurovascular, and neuro-developmental lesions are associated with combined defects. Absent or reduced thirst (adipsia) in association with AVP-D predisposes to hypernatremic dehydration. Diagnosis follows that outlined for AVP-D, with parallel assessment of thirst perception. TREATMENT Mild forms of AVP-D may not require treatment. Significant polyuria and polydipsia are treated effectively with DDAVP in divide doses: nasal spray 5-100 mcg per day; tablets 100-1000 mcg/day; or parenterally 0.1-2.0 mcg/day. Hyponatremia from plasma dilution can be avoided by omitting treatment for a short period on a regular basis (e.g. one dose per week). AVP-R may respond to removal of the causal agent (such as correction of hypokalemia or cessation of Lithium). However, drug-induced AVP-R may persist. Symptoms may respond partly to high-dose DDAVP (e.g. 4 mcg i.m. bid.). Hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg/day) either alone or in combination with Ibuprofen (200 mg/day) may be of some help. Urine output should
