Diabetes Insipidus (AVP-Deficiency and AVP Resistance)
KEYWORDS: avp-d, avp, plasma, urine, osmolality, pituitary, renal, thirst, intake, water, figure, fluid, day, plasma osmolality, ddavp


respond partly to high-dose DDAVP (e.g. 4 mcg i.m. bid.). Hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg/day) either alone or in combination with Ibuprofen (200 mg/day) may be of some help. Urine output should not be expected to normalize. The approach to Primary Polydipsia is reduction in fluid intake. DDAVP treatment must be avoided because of the risk of significant hyponatremia. Patients with adipsic AVP-D require careful management. Absence of normal thirst perception and/or regulation means that they may continue to drink at low plasma osmolalities that would normally suppress fluid intake. The combination of an obligate antidiuresis produced by DDAVP treatment, together with the potential for spontaneous fluid intake in excess of that required for maintenance of plasma volume and normal plasma osmolality, means they are at risk of fluid overload and dilutional hyponatremia. The same group of patients are also at risk of dehydration and hypernatremia if total body water loss is higher than a spontaneous fluid intake that is, by definition, uncoupled from normal osmo-regulatory control. In patients with adipsic AVP-D, managing fluid balance to maintain normal plasma sodium is therefore challenging. One approach is to combine a fixed DDAVP-dependent antidiuresis (giving urine output of some 2 L/day) with a variable daily fluid intake that aims to maintain the patient’s body weight at that which is known to be associated with normal plasma volume and normal plasma sodium (the ‘target’ weight, see below). e.g. Fluid intake for given day (L) = 2 L (i.e. urine output from fixed dose DDAVP) - (weight on given day in kg - target weight in kg) FOLLOW-UP Following initiation of DDAVP, patients require review for dose titration. When stable, they can be seen annually to assess symptom control and to check plasma Na + levels to avoid over-treatment. Adipsic AVP-D requires meticulous follow-up in a specialist service. GUIDELINE 1. Baldeweg SE, Ball S, Brooke A, Gleeson HK, Levy MJ, Prentice M, Wass J. In-patient management of Cranial Diabetes Insipidus. Endocrine Connections. 2018 [ PMC free article : PMC6013691 ] [ PubMed : 29930026 ] REFERENCES 1. Newell-Price J et al. Approach to the patient with suspected hypotonic polyuria. JCEM 2025; 110 (2) e506-e514 [ PMC free article : PMC11747752 ] [ PubMed : 39148427 ] 2. Cihan et al. A novel diagnostic score for diagnosing AVP-Deficiency with basal laboratory and clinical parameters: results from two international multicentre prospective diagnostic studies. The Lancet D&E 2025; 13
