Hyponatremia
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, siad, clinical, fluid, renal, plasma, management, patients, diagnosis, water, urine, plasma sodium, osmolality, volume


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Hyponatremia is common, being found in some 15–20% of non-selected emergency admissions to hospitals. It is associated with increased mortality, morbidity and increased duration of hospital stay, independent of the cause of admission. Clinical presentation is diverse, ranging from seizure and coma at one extreme to apparent absence of symptoms. This spectrum reflects a number of influences ( Figure 1 ). The rate of development of hyponatremia The degree of hyponatremia The neurophysiologic adaptive capacity of the individual The influence of co-morbidities Figure 1. Factors Contributing to Clinical Status in Hyponatremia The management strategy is stratified, based on an overall assessment of the severity of the clinical presentation. Plasma sodium concentration reflects the balance between sodium and water content, with each component reflecting the balance of intake and output. This approach can be used to develop a framework for classifying hyponatremia by etiology ( Table 1 ). Table 1 Causes of Hyponatremia View in own window Non-Hypotonic Hyponatremia Hyperglycemia Non-Physiological Osmolyte Sodium Depletion Renal- diuretics, salt wasting nephropathy, adrenal insufficiency, central salt wasting Extra renal Loss- GI Loss Excess Water Intake Dispsogenic DI Sodium Free, Hypo-Osmolar Irrigant Solutions Dilute Infant Feeding Solution Inappropriate IV Fluid Therapy Reduced Free Water Clearance Hypovolemia- drugs (e.g. diuretics), renal failure, portal hypotension and ascites, hypoalbuminemia, sepsis and vascular leak syndrome, salt wasting, fluid sequestration Other - cardiac failure, nephrotic syndrome, hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, syndrome of inappropriate ADH (SIADH), nephrogenic SIAD, excess use of ADH analogues (e.g. DDAVP) Intravascular Volume Depletion (Hypovolemia) Intravascular volume depletion leads to non-osmoregulated vasopressin (AVP) production and reduced free water excretion. AVP production can persist despite ensuing hyponatremia. Portal hypertension, congestive cardiac failure and hypoalbuminemia can all reduce effective circulating volume (independent of drug treatment), even in the context of excess total body sodium. Long-term diuretic use is a common cause of hyponatremia. Because it may develop slowly, patients can be relatively asymptomatic. Those on thiazide diuretics are particularly at risk as these agents produce solute loss without limiting renal concentrating ability. Excess Hypotonic Fluid Intake The administration or absorption of hypotonic fluids at a rate that exceeds renal free water excretion will inevitably result in hyponatremia. This can be seen with oral fluid intake (dipsogenic diabetes insipidus), intravenous fluid therapy and the absorption of hypotonic irrigating fluids following surgery to the lower renal tract or colonoscopy. Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuresis (SIAD) In SIAD there is a failure
