Hyponatremia
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, siad, clinical, fluid, renal, plasma, management, patients, diagnosis, water, urine, plasma sodium, osmolality, volume


intravenous fluid therapy and the absorption of hypotonic irrigating fluids following surgery to the lower renal tract or colonoscopy. Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuresis (SIAD) In SIAD there is a failure to maximally suppress AVP secretion as plasma osmolality falls below the normal osmotic threshold for AVP release. As patients continue to drink, persistent antidiuresis produces dilutional hyponatremia. Diagnosis of SIAD involves the exclusion of volume depletion and other endocrine causes of reduced free water excretion ( Table 2 ). Table 2. Diagnostic Criteria for SIAD View in own window Hyponatremia Urine Osmolality >100 mOsm/kg (sub-maximum dilution) Urine Na+ >20 mmol/L (excluding effective intravascular volume depletion) Absence of the following: hypotension and hypovolemia non-osmotic stimuli for AVP release oedema adrenal failure hypothyroidism The majority of patients with SIAD are euvolemic on clinical examination. Urine sodium concentration is often above 80 mmol/l. Many drugs cause SIAD. Drug histories are therefore an important part of the clinical assessment of patients presenting with hyponatremia ( Table 3 ). Table 3. Causes of SIAD View in own window Drugs Antidepressants (Tricyclics, SSRIs) Dopamine agonists (Metoclopramide, Prochlorperazine, Antipsychotics) Anticonvulsants (Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Sodium valproate) Opiates CNS Disturbances Stroke Hemorrhage Infection Trauma Malignancies Small cell lung cancer Pancreatic, duodenal and head/neck cancers Surgery Abdominal, thoracic or pituitary surgery Pulmonary disease Pneumonia Pneumothorax Idiopathic Central Salt Wasting This acquired primary natriuresis is a very rare cause of hyponatremia with hypovolemia. The underlying mechanism(s) remains unclear but may involve a number of processes. Increased release of natriuretic peptides Reduced sympathetic drive Central salt wasting has been described following a variety of neurosurgical situations. Diagnosis hinges on the natural history of the process. The development of hyponatremia, preceded by natriuresis and diuresis Clinical and biochemical features of hypovolemia and renal impairment Central salt wasting is a concern for the neurosurgical patient in whom autoregulation of cerebral blood flow is disturbed such that small reductions in circulating volume can reduce cerebral perfusion. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (SIAD) can occur in the same group of patients. As management of the two conditions is diametrically opposed, it is important to make the correct diagnosis. Recent data suggest that salt wasting is indeed a very rare cause of hyponatremia in the neurosurgical patient. Nephrogenic SIAD The action of AVP on renal water excretion is mediated by the G-protein-coupled type 2 AVP-receptor (V2-R). Loss-of-function mutations of the V2-R are the cause of X-linked nephrogenic diabetes
