Hyponatremia
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, siad, clinical, fluid, renal, plasma, management, patients, diagnosis, water, urine, plasma sodium, osmolality, volume


SIAD The action of AVP on renal water excretion is mediated by the G-protein-coupled type 2 AVP-receptor (V2-R). Loss-of-function mutations of the V2-R are the cause of X-linked nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. The reciprocal phenotype, mutations in the V2-R that are constitutively activating, lead to AVP-independent but V2-R-mediated antidiuresis with persistent hyponatremia. Patients may present in infancy or may remain undetected until adulthood. DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL History and examination are key to the clinical approach. They provide insights into the etiology, rate of development, clinical impact, and contributing co-morbidities: all factors important in a patient-focused approach to management ( Table 4 ). Table 4. Focus of History & Examination in the Patient with Hyponatremia View in own window History Fluid loss (e.g. vomiting, diarrhoea) Causes of SIAD Symptoms of endocrine dysfunction suggestive of hypoadrenalism or hypopituitarism Medication/drug use Examination Signs of extracellular volume depletion Orthostatic or persistent hypotension. Signs of peripheral oedema, or ascites, heart failure, cirrhosis, or renal failure Laboratory tests provide important information in the differential diagnosis of hyponatremia. Serum Osmolality The serum osmolality (which normally ranges from 275 to 290 mOsmol/kg) is primarily determined by the concentration of serum sodium (and accompanying anions). It is reduced in most cases of hyponatremia (hypotonic hyponatremia). In some instances, hyponatremia is not associated with dilute plasma. This is termed non-hypotonic hyponatremia ( Table 5 ). Table 5. Causes of Non-Hypotonic Hyponatremia View in own window Context Serum Osmolality Examples Increase in effective osmolytes (raise serum osmolality and can cause hyponatremia) Isotonic or hypertonic Glucose, mannitol, sorbitol, glycine, hyperosmolar contrast media, maltose Increase in ineffective osmolytes (raise serum osmolality but do not cause hyponatremia Isotonic or hypertonic Urea, alcohol, ethylene glycol, lactate Artifact Isotonic Lipids, protein immunoglobulin Urine Osmolality The normal response to hyponatremia is to suppress AVP secretion, resulting in the excretion of maximally dilute urine with an osmolality below 100 mOsmol/kg. Values above this level indicate an inability to normally excrete free water, indicating secretion and action of AVP. Urine Sodium Concentration The urine sodium concentration can be used to distinguish between hyponatremia caused by effective arterial volume depletion (such as in true hypovolemia, heart failure, and cirrhosis) and that caused by euvolemic/hypervolemic hyponatremia (most often due to SIAD). The combination of urine osmolality and urine Na + concentration can be used to form a utilitarian algorithm for the investigation and differential diagnosis of hyponatremia ( Figure 2 ). Figure
