Hyponatremia
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, siad, clinical, fluid, renal, plasma, management, patients, diagnosis, water, urine, plasma sodium, osmolality, volume


combination of urine osmolality and urine Na + concentration can be used to form a utilitarian algorithm for the investigation and differential diagnosis of hyponatremia ( Figure 2 ). Figure 2. Diagnostic Algorithm for Patients Presenting with Hyponatremia TREATMENT While hyponatremia can be life threatening, chronic hyponatremia can be tolerated very well even when profound. This diversity poses a management challenge: clinicians must balance the efficacy of any intervention with that of the potential adverse impact of both the intervention and persisting hyponatremia. Over-rapid correction of hyponatremia can trigger central nervous system osmotic demyelination. If urgent intervention is required, the aim of management should not be to normalise plasma sodium. Rather, it should be achieving a plasma sodium level that reverses or reduces morbidity while minimising the risk of osmotic demyelination. This requires a stratified approach based on clinical presentation: balancing a number of clinical drivers to optimise outcome ( Figure 3 ). Figure 3. Management Algorithm for the Treatment of Hyponatremia General and Supportive Measures The appropriate clinical environment for the management of hyponatremia is the one that matches the clinical needs of the patient. Management of hyponatremia in a patient with significant neurological morbidity, in whom plasma sodium is being raised over hours, requires close clinical and biochemical observation. This is best achieved in a high-dependency setting. Cerebral oedema and coma associated with hyponatremia may need supportive management with assisted ventilation. Patients with Significant Coma or Seizures Treatment with hypertonic sodium chloride increases plasma sodium concentration both directly and through the ensuing sodium load that increases renal sodium loss with a parallel, obligate renal water loss. 100-150ml boluses of 3% sodium chloride can be used to increase plasma sodium by some 2–4 mmol/L over the initial 2–4 hours reducing intra-cerebral pressure in the acute setting. Thereafter, the increase in plasma sodium should be limited to 10 mmol/L in the first 24 hours. Given the risk of over-correction, a pragmatic strategy is to aim for a rise of 6-8 mmol/L in first 24 hours. After the first 24 hours, the rate of rise of sodium should be limited to no more than 8 mmol/L per day. Avoidance of over-correction is critical. If over-correction does occur, it is important to seek expert advice and consider actively controlling the rate of rise of plasma sodium with hypotonic fluid. Hypertonic fluid should be stopped when the defined clinical target (such as cessation
