Hyponatremia
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, siad, clinical, fluid, renal, plasma, management, patients, diagnosis, water, urine, plasma sodium, osmolality, volume


seek expert advice and consider actively controlling the rate of rise of plasma sodium with hypotonic fluid. Hypertonic fluid should be stopped when the defined clinical target (such as cessation of seizures) or a sodium concentration of 130 mmol/L is reached, whichever is first. If hypertonic sodium chloride cannot be given safely, it should not be given. Patients with Mild or Less Severe Symptoms and Signs The clinician has time to make a diagnosis, identify and address contributing factors if possible, and introduce a cause-dependent intervention. Importantly, the limits on rate of rise of sodium remain the same as for the patient with critical signs and symptoms. The majority of patients will have circulating volume depletion or SIAD. Where these are due to drug treatments, the removal of the causal agent may be sufficient to normalise sodium. There will be some cases where the causal agent cannot be removed or where there is an alternative diagnosis. Plasma sodium may rise faster than expected due to ‘auto correction’ of hyponatremia when an underlying cause has simply been removed e.g. correction of glucocorticoid insufficiency or withdrawal of excess desmopressin. Osmotic demyelination can still occur in these circumstances and so care must be taken to control the rise of plasma sodium such that the rate remains within target. Fluid Challenge in Hypovolemic Hyponatremia Mild to moderate hypovolemia can be difficult to diagnose clinically and low urine sodium excretion (<20 or 30 mmol/L) may be unreliable as a diagnostic test in the face of diuretic use or renin-angiotensin system blockade. If volume depletion is suspected, a moderate intravenous fluid challenge with 0.5–1 L N-saline over 2–4 hours may be both diagnostic and therapeutic. Fluid Restriction in SIAD Fluid restriction of 0.5–1 L/day is a reasonable initial intervention when excess plasma water is suspected and when the clinical condition is not critical. In patients with primary polydipsia, reduction in fluid intake remains the most reasonable approach. All fluids need to be included in the restriction. As SIAD is associated with negative sodium balance, sodium intake needs to be maintained. Several days of restriction may be required before sodium levels rise and a negative fluid balance needs to be confirmed through appropriate monitoring. Management of Persistent Hyponatremia Hyponatremia may persist or recur after initial intervention. It is important that the differential diagnosis is reviewed and the basis for intervention reconsidered. In SIAD, fluid restriction may be
