Hyponatremia
KEYWORDS: hyponatremia, sodium, siad, clinical, fluid, renal, plasma, management, patients, diagnosis, water, urine, plasma sodium, osmolality, volume


Hyponatremia Hyponatremia may persist or recur after initial intervention. It is important that the differential diagnosis is reviewed and the basis for intervention reconsidered. In SIAD, fluid restriction may be only partly effective or may prove non-sustainable Chronic liver or cardiac dysfunction may persist Drug therapy exacerbating hyponatremia may need to continue Clinical decisions on further management have to balance the merits of incremental intervention with those of tolerating mild, persisting hyponatremia. Treatment aimed at simply raising plasma sodium in the absence of signs or symptoms may be of limited benefit and it is important to consider the clinical ‘trade-offs’ that may be required. Demeclocycline Demeclocycline has been used in SIAD. It produces a form of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and so increases renal water loss, even in the presence of high concentrations of AVP. Treatment is 600–1,200 mg/day in divided doses. There is a lag time of some 3–4 days in onset of action. Dose adjustment needs to take this into account. Photosensitive skin reactions and renal impairment are significant adverse effects and limit clinical utility. Vasopressin Receptor Antagonists Vasopressin receptor antagonists (Vaptans) are a rational approach to the management of SIAD. They are classified as either selective (V2-R specific) or non-selective (V2- and V1a antagonism). Both increase renal water excretion without a significant impact on renal electrolyte loss (aquaretic action). To avoid precipitating a rapid rise in plasma Na + , fluid restriction should be relaxed if these drugs are introduced. They should not be used in profound hyponatremia or in patients with severe symptoms. Their role in the management of SIAD in the majority of patients remains unclear. GUIDELINES 1. Spasovski G, Vanholder R, Allolio B, et al. Clinical practice guideline on diagnosis and treatment of hyponatremia. European Journal of Endocrinology. 2014; 170 :G1–G47. [ PubMed : 24569125 ] 2. Verbalis JG, Goldsmith SR, Greenberg A, Korzelius C, Schrier RW, Sterns RH, Thompson CJ. Diagnosis, evaluation and treatment of hyponatremia: expert panel recommendations. The American Journal of Medicine. 2014; 126 :S1–S42. [ PubMed : 24074529 ] REFERENCES 1. Hannon MJ, Behan LA, Brien MMC, Tormey W, Ball S, Javadpour M, Sherlock M, Thompson CJ. Hyponatremia following mild/moderate subarachnoid haemorrhage is due to SIAD and glucocorticoid deficiency and not cerebral salt wasting. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism. 2014; 99 :291–298. [ PubMed : 24248182 ] 2. Ward FL, Tobe SW, Naimark DMJ. The Role of Desmopressin in the
