NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atazanavir, liver, injury, elevations, antiretroviral, serum, hiv, liver injury, therapy, months, hepatitis, levels, patients, weeks, protease


of normal) are found in 3% to 10% of patients, although rates may be higher in patients with HIV- HCV coinfection. These elevations are usually asymptomatic and self-limited and can resolve even with continuation of the medication. 2 LiverTox Atazanavir therapy (similar to indinavir) also causes increases in unconjugated (indirect) and total serum bilirubin that can manifest as jaundice in up to 10% of patients. These elevations are due to the inhibition of UDP glucuronyl transferase, the hepatic enzyme responsible for conjugation of bilirubin that is deficient in Gilbert syndrome. The hyperbilirubinemia is usually mild, the increases averaging 0.3-0.5 mg/dL, but can be more marked in patients with Gilbert syndrome with increases of 1.5 mg/dL or more and clinical jaundice. Th e jaundice, however, is not indicative of hepatic injury. recovery have not been well defined. The liver injury is idiosyncratic and rare and probably similar to the injury that is caused by other HIV protease inhibitors. The liver injury typically arises 1 to 8 weeks after starting the protease inhibitor and has variable patterns of liver enzyme elevation, from hepatocellular to cholestatic. Signs of hypersensitivity (fever, rash, eosinophilia) are rare, as is autoantibody formation. The acute liver injury is usually self-limited and resolves within a few weeks of stopping the antiretroviral agent (Case 1). In addition, initiation of atazanavir based antiretroviral therapy can lead to exacerbation of an underlying chronic hepatitis B or C in coinfected individuals, typically arising 2 to 12 months after starting therapy, and associated with a hepatocellular pattern of serum enzyme elevations and increases in serum levels of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA or hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA. Atazanavir therapy has not been clearly linked to lactic acidosis and acute fatty liver that is reported in association with several nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Likelihood score: D (possible, rare cause of clinically apparent liver injury). Mechanism of Injury The cause of the clinical hepatotoxicity from atazanavir is only partially known. The indirect hyperbilirubinemia associated with its use is caused by inhibition of hepatic conjugation of bilirubin, similar to what occurs in Gilbert syndrome and is not indicative of liver injury. Atazanavir is extensively metabolized by the liver, largely by the cytochrome P450 system (CYP 3A4) and toxic intermediates may be the cause of the idiosyncratic forms of liver injury. In patients with HIV infection who are coinfected with either HBV or HCV, initiation of
