NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atazanavir, liver, injury, elevations, antiretroviral, serum, hiv, liver injury, therapy, months, hepatitis, levels, patients, weeks, protease


3A4) and toxic intermediates may be the cause of the idiosyncratic forms of liver injury. In patients with HIV infection who are coinfected with either HBV or HCV, initiation of potent antiretroviral therapy may be associated with flares of the underlying chronic hepatitis as the result of reconstitution of the immune system, viral interactions or a direct effect of the drug on the hepatitis virus. Outcome and Management The severity of liver injury from atazanavir ranges from asymptomatic unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia to moderate serum aminotransferase elevations to acute hepatitis. In typical cases, recovery occurs within 1 to 2 months and neither chronic hepatitis nor vanishing bile duct syndrome have been reported due to atazanavir. Rechallenge may lead to recurrence and should be avoided. There does not appear to be cross sensitivity in the hepatic injury to other protease inhibitors or antiretroviral agents. The exacerbation of hepatitis B or C that can occur with atazanavir based antiretroviral therapies can be severe and lead to liver failure or progressive, end stage liver disease. Patients with HCV or HBV coinfection should be monitored prospectively for viral and serum aminotransferase levels and appropriate therapy instituted if possible. References to atazanavir are included with references to all the HIV protease inhibitors in the overview section of Protease Inhibitors (updated September 2017). Most of the HIV protease inhibitors in clinical use are proteinomimetic drugs and are structurally unrelated. Drug Class: Antiviral Agents, Antiretroviral Agents Other Drugs in the Subclass, Protease Inhibitors: Amprenavir, Darunavir, Fosamprenavir, Indinavir, Lopinavir, Nelfinavir, Ritonavir, Saquinavir, Tipranavir Atazanavir 3 CASE REPORT Case 1. Serum aminotransferase elevations and jaundice arising during atazanavir therapy. [Modified from: Eholié SP, Lacombe K, Serfaty L, Wendum D, Girard PM. Acute hepatic cytolysis in an HIV- infected patient taking atazanavir. AIDS 2004; 18: 1610-1. PubMed Citation] A 56 year old woman with HIV infection and long history of antiretroviral therapy developed elevations in serum aminotransferase levels 8 weeks after switching from lopinavir/ritonavir to atazanavir in combination with tenofovir and didanosine. In the previous five years, she had been treated with various antiretroviral regimens which had included stavudine, didanosine, efavirenz, abacavir, nelfinavir, lopinavir and ritonavir, and had complications of lipodystrophy and dyslipidemia. Tests for hepatitis A, B and C were negative as were autoantibodies. She did not drink alcohol and was taking no other medications. Because of improvements in her dyslipidemia after switching to atazanavir, the medication was continued and she
