NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: atazanavir, liver, injury, elevations, antiretroviral, serum, hiv, liver injury, therapy, months, hepatitis, levels, patients, weeks, protease


as were autoantibodies. She did not drink alcohol and was taking no other medications. Because of improvements in her dyslipidemia after switching to atazanavir, the medication was continued and she was monitored. Thirty weeks after starting atazanavir, serum ALT levels had risen to more than ten-fold elevated and she was jaundiced (Table). Ultrasonography showed fatty liver without evidence of obstruction and liver biopsy showed steatosis and an acute hepatitis-like picture. Antiretroviral treatment was discontinued and serum aminotransferase levels fell to near normal levels within the next 2 months. She tolerated reintroduction of antiretroviral therapy with tenofovir, didanosine and nelfinavir without recurrence of ALT elevations. Key Points Medication: Atazanavir Pattern: Hepatocellular (R=8.3) Severity: 3+ (jaundice, hospitalization) Latency: 8 weeks to onset of ALT elevations, 30 weeks to jaundice Recovery: Yes Other medications: Tenofovir, didanosine Laboratory Values Time After Starting Time After Stopping ALT* (U/L) Alk P (U/L) Bilirubin (mg/dL) Other Pre 27 Normal Normal Pre 25 Atazanavir started and lopinavir stopped because of dyslipidemia 7 weeks 105 4 months 90 7 months 265 7.5 months 0 405 158 4.6 Therapy stopped 8 months 1 week 290 9 months 6 weeks 240 8 weeks 110 Tenofovir restarted 10 months 3 months 48 11 months 4 months 30 4 LiverTox Table continued from previous page. Time After Starting Time After Stopping ALT* (U/L) Alk P (U/L) Bilirubin (mg/dL) Other Normal Values <40 <130 <1.2 *Values estimated from Figure 1. Comment Mild, asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase levels were identified within 8 weeks of switching HIV protease inhibitors from lopinavir/retonavir to atazanavir. However, instead of resolving spontaneously, ALT levels continued to increase. It was not clear whether the patient became symptomatic or whether the jaundice may have been partially due to the known effects of atazanavir in increasing unconjugated (indirect) bilirubin levels. The appearance of ALT elevations shortly after starting atazanavir, the absence of other known causes of liver diseases (particularly hepatitis B and C) and the resolution with stopping support the diagnosis of atazanavir induced liver injury. PRODUCT INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE TRADE NAMES Atazanavir – Reyataz®, Evotaz® (with Cobicistat) DRUG CLASS Antiviral Agents COMPLETE LABELING Product labeling at DailyMed, National Library of Medicine, NIH CHEMICAL FORMULA AND STRUCTURE DRUG CAS REGISTRY NUMBER MOLECULAR FORMULA STRUCTURE Atazanavir 198904-31-3 C38-H52-N6-O7
