Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


Respiratory Diseases of Adults Frank E. Speizer, Susan Horton, Jane Batt, and Arthur S. Slutsky Adult respiratory diseases in the developing world are a major for each decade of life, whereas rates of death from tuber- burden in terms ofmorbidity and mortality and,particularly as culosis remain relatively constant. Notably, acute respiratory related to chronic respiratory disease,are ofincreasing concern diseases—inadditiontotuberculosis—remainmajorconcerns (Murray and Lopez 1996).For many years,the leading cause of amongadultswithAIDS. adult respiratory disease mortality has been tuberculosis,which Thediagnosisofpneumoniavariesaccordingtothepatient’s still kills far more people than it should, given the increased accesstomedicalcare.Oftenthediagnosisismadesimplyon efficacy oftreatment and preventive regimens (see chapter 16). thebasisofcoughandfever.Forpatientswithaccesstoahospi- However,the burden ofother acute and chronic adult respira- tal,thelikelihoodofobtainingachestx-rayincreases;generally tory diseases,which is the focus ofthis chapter,has been rising the infection is bacteriologically confirmed only in the most throughout the world.These diseases fall into four categories: sophisticatedmedicalcenters.Thenaturalhistoryofpneumo- acute diseases, such as pneumonia and influenza; chronic niawithoutantibiotictreatmentvarieswiththeetiologicagent diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and the patient’s underlying comorbid conditions and age. (COPD) and asthma;occupational lung diseases,such as byssi- Mortality resulting from these lower respiratory diseases is nosis,asbestosis,and coal worker’s pneumoconiosis;and other approximately 10-fold higher in people age 60 to 69 than in parenchymal lung diseases, such as immune-related lung peopleage15to59(WHO2000).Comorbidconditions,mal- diseases.Lung cancer,tuberculosis,and AIDS-related lung dis- nutrition, low socioeconomic status, and cigarette smoking eases are dealt with in chapters 29,16,and 18,respectively. eachplayaroleinincreasingtheincidenceofdiseaseandwors- eningtheprognosis,bothwithandwithouttreatment. ACUTE DISEASES: PNEUMONIA AND INFLUENZA Fromstudiesconductedinthedevelopedworld,itwouldbe reasonabletoconcludethatcommonantibioticsforpneumo- Obtainingfiguresontheincidenceandburdenof pneumonia nias that occur outside a hospital setting would effectively and influenza in adults throughout the developing world has reducedayslostfromworkand,intheabsenceofothermorbid been surprisingly difficult. Much of the research and surveil- conditions,mortality.Thefewstudiesinwhichsputumspeci- lance has been directed toward the pediatric age group (see menshavebeenculturedsuggestthatStreptococcuspneumoniae chapter 25). In 2000, fatal lower respiratory infections, as a is found in between 40 and 50 percent of the cases. Gram- class that represents serious pneumonia and influenza, were negativeorganismsormixedinfectionsareoftenisolated,and reported as the cause of 120 deaths per million men and thus,theuseofbroad-spectrumantibioticsiswarranted(Hooi, 76 deaths per million women worldwide for the 15 to 59 age Looi,andNg2001;Huiandothers1993;Liebermanandothers group(WHO2000).Forbothsexesinthisagegroup,thissta- 1996). As would be expected, increased use of antibiotics tisticrepresentsapproximatelyone-thirdof thedeathscaused hasresultedinincreasedresistancetocommonantibiotics.In by tuberculosis. However, for the age groups over 60, rates addition,10 to 15 percent of these cases may be tuberculosis of death from lower respiratory disease more than double (Dolin,Raviglione,andKochi1994). Scottandothers(2000)suggestedthat,despitethesimilarity the elderly are at greater risk of suffering from complications oping and developed countries,there are important differences ply,form the basis for choosing who should be considered for in the age distributions. The
