Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


approximately 3 million deaths, in domestic poultry.Furthermore,more recently there has mostly in the very young,the elderly,and in those with co- been evidence ofdisease in wild and zoo mammals as well morbid conditions, the 1918 episode is believed to have as isolated cases of infection in domestic cats. Recent caused over 40 million deaths,mostly in the age group 15 reports from Vietnam include two cases in humans to 35 years.This potential for greatly increased mortality infected through the consumption of uncooked duck among such a robust population has fueled recent concern blood.Further investigation ofpossible person-to-person . transmission is underway.Recently,WHO (2005b) stated, This concern has become more immediate with the “The possible spread of H5N1 avian influenza to poultry identification of a sub-strain of influenza A, H5N1, first in additional countries cannot be ruled out.WHO recom- identified in 1997 in Hong Kong when it jumped from mends heightened surveillance for outbreaks in poultry poultry to humans and killed six of 18 infected people. and die-offs in migratory birds,and rapid introduction of Virtually all of the original cases were believed to have containment measures,as recommended by FAO and OIE. been bird-to-human transmission. Since that time there Heightened vigilance for cases of respiratory disease in have been a few hundred serologically confirmed cases in persons with a history of exposure to infected poultry is Cambodia, Indonesia, Thailand, and Vietnam, with high also recommended in countries with known poultry out- to-human transmission . from humans and animals,to WHO and OIE/FAO refer- The H5N1 strain is highly pathogenic among poultry. ence laboratories allows studies that contribute to the During 2003–2004 it resulted in outbreaks in 8 countries assessment of pandemic risk and helps ensure that work in Asia,with over 100 million birds dying from disease or towards vaccine development stays on course.” being culled.More recently,though an additional 150 mil- Humans have little natural immunity to the H5N1 lion birds have been culled,because much ofthe develop- viruses.Thus,in contrast to the usual influenza epidemics, ing world’s poultry economy depends on rural backyard which affect the very young, elderly, and those with 682 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Frank E. Speizer, Susan Horton, Jane Batt, and others comorbid conditions,virtually the entire population in an Given the lack of natural immunity,there is considerable exposed community is at risk. In human cases of avian concernthatevenifadequatevaccineswereavailable,distri- influenza, following the initial respiratory infection, butiononaworldwidebasiswouldbelimitedbyeconomic mortality results from two distinct processes.One
