Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


lack of natural immunity,there is considerable exposed community is at risk. In human cases of avian concernthatevenifadequatevaccineswereavailable,distri- influenza, following the initial respiratory infection, butiononaworldwidebasiswouldbelimitedbyeconomic mortality results from two distinct processes.One process considerationsaswellasdistributionproblemsinthedevel- begins with relatively rapid onset of respiratory distress oping world.Efforts are underway to identify the genetic from hypoxia associated with ARDS.a The alternative make-up of the strains of H5N1 that will yield the most process results from secondary bacterial infection with a effective vaccines and to produce such vaccines in a cost- variety oforganisms.In the documented H5N1 influenza effectivemanner.TestingH5N1vaccinesbasedonrecently infections in humans, respiratory symptoms are most identifiedvirusesinnormalhealthyvolunteerssuggeststhe prominent.However,in one case ofencephalitis in a child immunologic response may be adequate, but several from Vietnam, H5N1 influenza virus was identified in monthsofproductionwouldbenecessarytoproduceade- cerebrospinal fluid and fecal matter, and in throat and quatesuppliesforoneregion,letaloneforworldwidedistri- serum samples. Isolates from several cases were resistant bution. Stockpiles of effective antiviral medications are to two commonly used antiviral medications (amantadine being generated in some countries.In the interim,WHO and rimantadine), while two other antiviral medications hasencouragedtherapidreportingofcasesandtheestab- (oseltamivir and zanamivir) still appear to be effective. lishmentofproceduresforbetterpublichealthintervention Thereisnowaytopredicttheoutcomeoftheseongoing strategies before and during a pandemic . events. What seems evident is that if human-to-human Many countries have developed pandemic influenza pre- transmissionbecomesestablished,apandemicwillfollow. parednessplansinanticipationofsuchanevent. Source:Authors. a. ARDS is defined as Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome resulting from multiple causes, the most likely in this situation being an immunological reaction to the virus. Procedure Comment 1. Isolation of patients Isolate rapidly after onset of symptoms. 2. Quarantine of contacts Usually at home, but separate from patients. When in contact with unexposed subjects, wear masks and avoid public transportation and visits to crowded places. 3. Education Reduce delay between onset of symptoms and isolation. In endemic areas, get subject to monitor temperature daily. Use fever hotlines, fever evaluation clinics. 4. Thermal screening Monitor temperature of travelers from endemic areas (not proven effective). 5. Increased social distance Cancel mass gatherings. Close schools, theaters, public facilities. Require use of masks in public settings. 6. Disinfection Practice frequent hand washing. Use aerosol disinfectant agents. 7. Travel advisories Postpone unessential travel. Screen travelers at entry and exit (not proven effective). Distribute health notices to travelers. Source:Data compiled and summarized from Bell 2004. controlling the spread of newly active influenza strains. The part ofthe reason the epidemic was contained as promptly as it potential for global spread and the occurrence of worldwide was (see table 35.1).However,because ofthe high case-fatality
