Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


influenza strains. The part ofthe reason the epidemic was contained as promptly as it potential for global spread and the occurrence of worldwide was (see table 35.1).However,because ofthe high case-fatality epidemics ofinfluenza (presumed to be transmitted to humans rate,the disease caused significant disruption throughout the from domesticated or wild animals and then through close world. proximity to humans with symptomatic disease—generally to caregivers) points out the importance of continued surveil- Economic Impact of Influenza and Cost-Effectiveness lance for such episodes (Low and McGeer 2004).The lessons ofInterventions in the Developed World learned from the SARS epidemic reinforce the importance of isolating cases, quarantining close contacts, and improving affects 10 to 20 percent ofthe U.S.population (Lee and others infection control practices .Those methods,along 2002); those affected experience on average a loss of 2.8 with several other,less traditional efforts,were presumed to be workdays per episode. Those over 65 years of age are more Respiratory Diseases of Adults | 683 susceptible to complications, increased costs of hospitaliza- annual burden of influenza in the tropics from data on such tion,and even death.The cost of outbreaks can be large.The occasional and severe outbreaks. Because many areas (for at US$1,045 million, and the annual costs of outbreaks at not enough is known at this point to make policy recommen- US$11million to US$18 million . dations. There are also no readily available estimates of the For those over age 65,many countries encourage preventive cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination in those environ- vaccinations annually, on the basis of studies suggesting that ments. (For further discussion of the role of vaccination, see vaccination (either opportunistic or in a campaign) is cost- chapter 20.) effective in elderly populations (for example,see the model of Scuffham and West 2002).Given a good antigenic match,inac- tivated influenza vaccines prevent laboratory-confirmed illness CHRONIC RESPIRATORY DISEASES: in 70 to 90 percent of healthy adult vaccine recipients (WHO NATURE,CAUSES, AND BURDEN 2002a).Vaccination is less costly than chemoprophylaxis (with ion-channel inhibitors such as amantadine and rimantadine, COPD and asthma have very different diagnoses and causes; or with neuraminidase inhibitors such as zanamivir and hence, they are discussed in separate sections. However, the oseltamivir) or early treatment with the same drugs. In both treatments for these different chronic respiratory diseases share the institutionalized and the healthy elderly,vaccination sub- similarities,and that discussion is therefore combined.One of stantially reduces overall mortality from influenza (by 40 to the difficulties in defining COPD on a
