Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


treatments for COPD overlap In adults, COPD dominates all other chronic respiratory with those for asthma,they will be treated together. diseases in accounting for 2 percent to more than 10 percent The diagnosis of asthma has been debated for centuries. of lost disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) on a worldwide Health care providers can generally agree on the diagnosis in basis. Its incidence increases dramatically with age (fig- theindividualpatientwhoiswheezingandinwhomothereti- ures35.1a and 35.1b). Of note, mortality from COPD is low ologicfactorsareruledout.Theywouldalsoagreeonthedef- beforeage45.Overage45,deathratesincreasefrom50to200 inition of the disease as an inflammatory response in the per10,000individualsandareconsistentacrossagegroupsin airwaysthatresultsinvariableandgenerallyreversibleairflow menandwomen,withtheexceptionof deathratesinwomen obstruction with or without treatment. However, depending over age 80, which exceed those in men in that age group onthetrainingof healthcareproviders,thenatureof surveil- (figure35.2). lance, the characteristics of a given community, and the par- Much ofCOPD in the developed world is related to cigarette ticular environment of the community, the accuracy of the smoking,and there is no question that progression of thedis- estimateoftheprevalenceofasthmainacommunitymayvary ease is related to the number ofcigarettes smoked and the years much more. The reported prevalence of the disease may be of smoking. Smoking cessation has been associated with based on no more than an answer to this question: “Has a Respiratory Diseases of Adults | 685 provider ever told you that you (or your child) has had Economic Impact of Asthma in the Developing World asthma?”Theresponsetothisquestionhasbeenvalidatedina Data for developing countries are much scarcer. For Estonia, number of studies.In contrast,the diagnosis may depend on Kiivetandothers(2001,citedinLeeandWeiss2002)estimated examination of the patient’s chest, physiological testing, the direct annual costs of asthma to be US$104 per year per responsiveness to provocative stimuli to the airways, and specific response to therapy. Thus, estimates of community costs.In Singapore,medical costs for asthma constitute 1.3 per- burden from asthma may depend on the threshold used in makingthediagnosis. in WHO 2001). Despite variations in diagnostic criteria, worldwide esti- One study (Aït-Khaled,Enarson,and Bousquet 2001,cited mates of the asthma burden among adults have generally in Weiss and Sullivan 2001) found that asthma drugs cost come from surveys within selected communities. In contrast between 3.8 and 25 percent ofthe patient’s monthly income in tootheradultrespiratorydiseases,theprevalenceofasthmais 24 developing countries in Asia and Africa.K.R.Smith (2000) relatively low (figures 35.1a and 35.1b). In adults, the DALYs estimates the burden of respiratory disease in India that is forasthmaareatapeakofabout2percentofthetotalworld- attributable to indoor air pollution (only a fraction ofall respi- wideinpeopleage15to29,andtheydeclineineacholderage ratory disease) as 1.6 billion to 2 billion sick days per year.Of
