Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


intravenous steroids playa crucial role in and Ramsey and others (1995, cited in Ruchlin and Dasbach thetreatmentofacuteexacerbationsinbothasthmaandCOPD, 2001) estimated costs at US$238,000 per QALY (in 2000 U.S. butendpointassessmentsinstudiestypicallyaddressdecreases dollars). in the duration of hospital stays and increases in the use of All those interventions compare unfavorably with the cost- healthcostsinthedevelopedworld.Oralsteroidsareinexpen- (discussed in chapter 46). Smoking prevention is one of the termmightappeartobecost-effective,buttheyareassociated a strong case for moving resources from expensive curative with major medium- to long-term consequences and are not interventions to that intervention. Likewise, prevention of recommendedasstandardtherapy. COPD by switching the cooking source from unventilated Educational programs tend to be cost saving in developed stoves that burn biomass to either improved stoves or kerosene countries, where uncontrolled exacerbations are extremely stoves is more cost-effective than treatment (see chapter 42). costlyintermsofhospitalcare(sixsuchprogramsaresurveyed in Van Mölken and others 1992 and one in Ruchlin and Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions for COPD and Asthma Dasbach2001).Similarly,exerciserehabilitationprograms(six in Developing Countries surveyed in Ruchlin and Dasbach 2001) can also be cost sav- ing.WHO(2001)hascommentedoncostsavingsachievedby It is difficult to transfer the costs per QALY saved in developed educationprogramsforasthmafromfourdifferentU.S.stud- countries to developing countries.The cost of patented drugs ies. Only one of these studies addressed cost per well year, in developing countries should be the same as that in devel- whichwasestimatedatUS$71,500in2001(Toevs,Kaplan,and oped countries,whereas the costs ofeducation and ofthe time Atkins 1984, cited in Ruchlin and Dasbach 2001). However, of medical personnel should be substantially lower (on the there are likely to be monetary savings from fewer workdays order of20 percent ofU.S.levels).In practice,the costs ofoff- lost,whicharenotfactoredintothisanalysis. patent drugs also vary considerably.Beclomethasone dipropi- WHO (2001) surveyed one self-management training pro- onate (one ofthe older,off-patent inhaled steroids) is available gram for chronic asthma in India (Ghosh and others 1998), for about US$15 per 200-dose inhaler in Canada in online costs.Sudre and others (1999) pointed out that studies ofedu- ( similar price difference exists for salbu- cation programs tend not to provide a good description ofthe tamol inhalers. Hence, the most cost-effective therapies in actual program content and that a more systematic description developed countries (inhaled salbutamol and first-generation of these interventions needs to be promoted to replicate best corticosteroids for asthma and ipratropium bromide for practice. COPD) are also likely to be cost-effective in the wealthier devel- Long-term oxygen therapy is a life-prolonging intervention oping countries—or more broadly ifinexpensive drug supplies in advanced stages ofCOPD.Recent studies do not quantify the are available. Those drugs are likely
