Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


devel- Long-term oxygen therapy is a life-prolonging intervention oping countries—or more broadly ifinexpensive drug supplies in advanced stages ofCOPD.Recent studies do not quantify the are available. Those drugs are likely to be particularly cost- cost per QALY but instead compare different methods ofoxy- effective for those with severe and moderately severe asthma or gen delivery (cylinder orconcentrator). These authors’crude COPD but less cost-effective for those with mild disease. estimate for long-term oxygen use is US$19,000 per life year Recent practice suggests that a combination oflong-acting beta saved.3 If the quality-of-life scores of patients on long-term agonists and inhaled corticosteroids can control moderate to oxygen were 0.8 or 0.6,the cost per QALY would be US$22,750 severe disease more rapidly. However, to make this form of or US$31,700,respectively.(K.J.Smith and Pesce 1994,cited in therapy cost-effective, the patient needs to be reevaluated to the Harvard Catalogue of Preference Scores, assign a median determine whether one or the other drug can be removed. score of 0.4 to quality of life for patients with severe COPD Because ofcost considerations,that may not be feasible in the with high supportive care needs and poor functional status.) developing world. In hospitals, mechanical ventilation in the intensive care Once control has been obtained,education alone appears to unit has been estimated to cost US$35,000 to US$60,700 per be ineffective when only respiratory outcomes are considered Dasbach 2001). Studies suggest that noninvasive positive benefits: see chapter 44 on lifestyles). However, education 688 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Frank E. Speizer, Susan Horton, Jane Batt, and others addressing the appropriate use of medication is extremely There are few reliable estimates of the global burden of important,particularly in developing countries,where timely occupation-related respiratory diseases.Because of the lack of emergency care for severe exacerbations may not be readily systematic surveillance in most developing countries, the few available. Although the cost of educational efforts would be published estimates of occupation-related respiratory diseases expected to be considerably lower in developing countries,this have relied on selected studies involving particular industries area requires more systematic research. that investigators have had unique opportunities to explore. Long-termoxygenisalsoanoptionforhigh-incomehouse- For example,Trapido and others (1996) conducted a survey in holds in middle-income developing countries. The costs are a relatively small group offormer mineworkers and found that likely to be lower than in developed countries. In Brazil the approximately 55 percent had pneumoconiosis with or without monthly cost for supplemental home oxygen
