Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


offormer mineworkers and found that likely to be lower than in developed countries. In Brazil the approximately 55 percent had pneumoconiosis with or without monthly cost for supplemental home oxygen therapy is close tuberculosis.They estimated that about 25 percent ofmigrant to US$150 (Sant’Anna and others 2003), compared with and former mineworkers in South African gold mines with US$400 permonthpaid by Medicare,which would bring the 15 to 25 years of exposure had occupational lung diseases. cost-effectiveness to US$7,000 per life year by these authors’ Loewenson (1999) pointed out the difficulties in making crudeestimates,orbetweenUS$8,750andUS$11,700perQALY. assessments ofoccupational risk throughout the African coun- Publiclyfundedsystemsareunlikelytobeabletopaythisrate, tries and suggested a series ofmethodological issues that need although private insurers and wealthy households might pay to be considered. becausesuchtherapyprolongslife. Leigh and others(1999)estimated the global burden ofdis- The other interventions in table 35.2 are likely to be too eases related to occupational factors at 4.2 million to 10.0 mil- expensive for most developing countries to use at present. lion cases per year. If one subtracts the rates for established market economy countries,the total burden for the rest ofthe OCCUPATIONAL LUNG DISEASE AND OTHER world is approximately 3.4 million to 9.1 million cases per year. RESPIRATORY DISEASES Using limited data and applying rates from individual nations and regional groups ofcountries,the authors made an indirect Although occupational lung diseases are often considered dis- calculation for the expected number of cases of occupation- eases ofthe industrial world,they are occurring with increased related diseases globally. Figure 35.3 summarizes their esti- frequency in the developing world,where guidelines for worker mates for pneumoconiosis and other chronic respiratory dis- safety are generally more lax or nonexistent. In addition, eases by age and gender.Notably,these two categories ofdisease because of increased migration from rural areas to more account for approximately 30 percent of all occupational dis- urbanized centers and the transfer of major manufacturing eases.The prevalence ofthese diseases increases with age and is activities from the developed market economy countries to the higher among men. less developed countries, the number of employees with potentially harmful occupational exposures has increased exponentially in the past 30 years. The general discussion of occupation-related diseases is reviewed in chapter 60.We focus Rates per million people here on specific occupation-related lung diseases. 2,500 Occupational lung diseases are, for the most part, charac- terized as related to particular occupational exposures and 2,000 generally fall into two broad pathophysiological types. One typemayresultinpulmonaryfibrosis,whichismanifestedby 1,500 restricted lung
