Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


Occupational lung diseases are, for the most part, charac- terized as related to particular occupational exposures and 2,000 generally fall into two broad pathophysiological types. One typemayresultinpulmonaryfibrosis,whichismanifestedby 1,500 restricted lung volume and decreased diffusion capacity on pulmonary function testing and increased interstitial pul- 1,000 monary markings on chest x-ray. Certain occupational lung diseases, such as silicosis, are complicated by a substantially 500 increasedriskoftuberculosis,whichcontributestotheoverall burden of respiratory disease in the developing world. The secondpatternofoccupationallungdiseaseisthatofobstruc- 0–14 15–44 45–59 60(cid:1) Age group tive airways disease, which may be reversible (occupational asthma) or irreversible (chronic bronchitis with or without Males Females obstruction or emphysema or COPD), in which the chest x- Source: Leigh and others 1999. rayoftenisnegativeandthediagnosisisdependentlargelyon reported histories of exposures, symptoms, and pulmonary Figure 35.3 Estimated Combined Pneumoconiosis and Other functiontesting. Occupation-Related Chronic Respiratory Diseases Respiratory Diseases of Adults | 689 Asbestosisandasbestos-relatedcancerspresentaparticular immunologically related pulmonary diseases most often asso- problemindevelopingcountries.Asbestosiscanmanifestboth ciated with environmental exposures to specific inhaled anti- as other interstitial lung disease, as described above, and as gens or interstitial inflammation and fibrosis, often of obstructive airways disease. In addition, occupational expo- unknown origin. In the developing world, little systematic sure is associated with the occurrence of lung cancer, and work has been done on these diseases to assess incidence or accordingtostudiesindevelopedcountries,therateofoccur- prevalence.These conditions probably occur considerably less rence is synergistically associated with smoking. Because the frequently than asthma and COPD. However, they are likely cost of health care compensation in the developed world to have a higher prevalence in developing countries than is exceeds the potential profit from mining and manufacturing reported in the developed world simply because of the pre- of asbestos products,much of the industry has moved to the sumed associations with exposures to organic dusts and the developingworld. increased prevalence of malnutrition (see chapter 56),both of LaDou (2004) has recently summarized the status of the which are likely to occur in more rural and less developed areas potential for reducing occupational exposure on a worldwide ofthe world. basis and suggests that upward of10 million lives will be lost if Seechapters16,18,and29forinterventionsfortuberculo- the current lack ofcontrols and continued increases in mining sis, AIDS-related lung disease, and lung cancer, respectively. and manufacturing are not changed.In 2000,more than 2 mil- Managingimmunologicandfibroticrespiratorydiseaseswith lion tons ofasbestos products were produced,whereas 25 years medication is extremely difficult and expensive. Therapeutic earlier the total production was 350,000 tons each year.Except trials often fail, presumably because the treatments
