Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


tons ofasbestos products were produced,whereas 25 years medication is extremely difficult and expensive. Therapeutic earlier the total production was 350,000 tons each year.Except trials often fail, presumably because the treatments are not for the Russian Federation and Canada,virtually all the larger aimedataparticularantigen.Themosteffectivewayofmanag- producers are in the developing world,where the recognition ing these respiratory diseases is to reduce exposure to the likelihood of reversing this trend and developing an interna- ises, which are not always applicable in the developed world. tional ban on asbestos use is small,particularly because it is the First,the disease must be recognized as related to a common nations that produce more asbestos products that are,in fact, environmentalcontaminantencounteredinanoccupationalor increasing consumption. avocationalexposure—forexample,exposuretothermophilic The economic burden of occupational lung diseases is sur- actinomycetes in moldy hay or sugarcane results in farmer’s prisingly difficult to document.Most developed countries and lung,andexposuretobirdfeathersordroppingsresultsinbird some developing countries (for example, South Africa) have fancier’sdisease.Second,communityresourcesmustbedirected legislation protecting workers from exposure and compensat- towardeducatingthepublicabouttheimportanceof limiting ing those who have contracted chronic conditions. In the exposuretotheseagents. United States,compensation payments from the Social Security Administration and the Department of Labor for black lung disease totaled US$1.6 billion in 1996 . Data GENERAL APPROACH TO LOWERING RISK exist on compensation for claims for various occupational lung OFADULT RESPIRATORY DISEASE diseases for the United States and the European Union coun- tries. However, claims data represent only a small fraction of Althoughinterventionsof varioussortsareindicatedforeach the true economic cost (for example, not all workers make ofthediseasecategoriesdiscussed,theseinterventionsareoften claims; compensation payments lag considerably). For the costlyandsometimesineffectiveinloweringorpreventingpre- United States,the annual costs of complying with the revised mature mortality.Thus,from an operational perspective,it is respirator standards for 1993 were US$111 million for about importanttoconsiderpreventiveandtherapeuticstrategiesthat 5 million workers needing to use a respirator (presumably willhavegreatersocietaleffectthanwillthemanagementofthe these costs ofprevention were far lower than the economic cost manifestations of diseases as they arise in individuals. This of unprotected work) . The primary treatment approach applies to acute diseases (vaccination schemes to for affected workers is to remove them from the inciting expo- reducetheburdenofinfluenza,incontrasttoindividualman- sures. (See chapter 60 for discussion of preventive strategies agementofcommunity-acquiredpneumonia)andchronicdis- that need to be considered to reduce the risk of occupational eases(smokingpreventionandreductionprograms,compared disease.) withavailabilityof routineasthmamedication).Primarypre- Some ofthe other major classes ofadult respiratory diseases ventionstrategiesshouldincludeeffortsbymultipleagenciesof are discussed in other chapters: tuberculosis, in chapter 16; governmentandthecommunitycomingtogethertoestablish AIDS-related lung disease, in chapter 18; and lung cancer, in appropriate priorities for action. Four sources of exposure chapter 29.Other diseases that have been studied,particularly stand
