Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


in chapter 16; governmentandthecommunitycomingtogethertoestablish AIDS-related lung disease, in chapter 18; and lung cancer, in appropriate priorities for action. Four sources of exposure chapter 29.Other diseases that have been studied,particularly stand out: tobacco smoke, indoor smoke, outdoor air pollu- in the developed world, include the hypersensitivity or tants, and occupational exposure (see chapters 46, 42, 43, 690 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Frank E. Speizer, Susan Horton, Jane Batt, and others and 60, respectively). Of these, the most pressing and cost- nities for research that go beyond the primary prevention that effectiveisacohesivepolicytocontroltobaccosmoking. would result from better smoking control policies.Because not In conjunction with the International Union against all smokers are at increased risk, the interaction of smoking Tuberculosis and Lung Disease (IUATLD) and selected univer- with nutritional status (including micronutrient status), with ously known as the Adult Lung Health Initiative).The program ronmental (ambient or occupational) pollution and personal is focused on improving primary care services,as well as appro- (smoking) pollution.Similarly,the role of immunologic stim- with tuberculosis,acute respiratory infections (especially pneu- relates to the development of asthma. Synergies between the monia),asthma,and COPD.Four countries (Chile,Morocco, conditionsdiscussedinthischapterandotherinfections(par- Nepal,and South Africa) are serving as the pilot implementa- ticularly tuberculosis, but possibly others) may be especially tion sites . important in the developing world. Finally, specific environ- In Chile,where respiratory symptoms account for one-third mental conditions—such as altitude,heat and cold stress,and initiated in 2001 as part of ongoing efforts to strengthen pri- their effects on asthma and COPD should be explored. centers. Standard formats are used to devise scores to deter- nia,have not been addressed nearly as well for adults as they mine follow-up for asthma and COPD. Sentinel centers are have been for children.For example,simple data on the preva- used to provide epidemiologic information.Influenza immu- lence ofinfecting organisms,typical susceptibilities,the ability reached 85 percent . tion ofclinical assessment with verified disease would be help- In Morocco, survey work done before establishing a PAL ful in establishing the feasibility ofassessment and treatment at primary health care centers present with respiratory symp- ing world. Common etiologic agents in North America are toms. Of those patients, 85 percent have acute respiratory common elsewhere; therefore, treatment of disease would be infections,14 percent have chronic conditions,and 1 percent relatively inexpensive.Most community-acquired acute disease have tuberculosis.In Mexico,an IUATLD study implementing responds relatively well.Certainly,penicillin should be recom- asthma control measures was shown to be cost-effective. mended as a first-line drug
