Chapter
KEYWORDS: disease, countries, respiratory, diseases, asthma, copd, developing, cost, influenza, lung, world, developed, costs, chronic, age


relatively inexpensive.Most community-acquired acute disease have tuberculosis.In Mexico,an IUATLD study implementing responds relatively well.Certainly,penicillin should be recom- asthma control measures was shown to be cost-effective. mended as a first-line drug for community-acquired pneumo- Control of asthma improved, and the majority of patients nia. Educating local healers on the importance of initiating experienced a decrease in the severity of asthma. The cost of treatment earlier in the course of disease would translate into asthma management decreased because of lower costs for savings with respect to decreased days ofwork lost and reduced emergency services and hospitalizations . case-fatality rates.Follow-up monitoring and the development of hospital-based bacteriologic testing should be expanded to identify and control for the emergence of resistant bacterial FUTURE RESEARCH NEEDS strains. Studies ofasthma in the developed world have been exten- One ofthe difficulties in quantifying the burden ofrespiratory sive and of extremely high quality but are directed specifically diseases in adults is the inability to apply uniform methods of toward the health care structures in which they are tested. diagnosis across economies in which sophisticated diagnostic Specific cost-effectiveness studies in the developing world procedures are possible, let alone across less developed should be done to see,for example,whether a focus on disease economies. The problems relate in part to differences in the education and modification ofrisk factors in addition to med- language describing the same symptoms,levels of registration ications outweighs simple administration ofmedications (with of census and disease reporting,availability of diagnostic pro- instructions on use).In the developed world,there is no ques- cedures,and reluctance to make accurate estimates because of tion that an approach that is multitiered and involves multiple on cigarette smoking are initiated,little progress in stemming concrete evidence ofwhere monies are best spent in the devel- the increasing burden of chronic respiratory diseases can be oping world. Another possible fruitful area of research is on expected. education programs.Most ofthe literature relates to education There are still a number ofunanswered questions related to programs for specific entities (for example,“asthma triggers”) COPD, which remains the dominant respiratory disease in and their costs in developed countries. Education programs adults.The developing world provides some unique opportu- in developing countries that are multidimensional (smoking Respiratory Diseases of Adults | 691 cessation,indoorairquality,vaccination)arelikelytoberela- Chung,F.,N.Barnes,M.Allen,R.Angus,P.Corris,A.Knox,and others. tivelyinexpensive and cost-effective.Better methods ofeducat- 2002. “Assessing the Burden of Respiratory Disease in the U.K.” Respiratory Medicine96:963–75. ing local healers through the use of demonstration projects Crockett,A.J.,J.M.Cranston,J.R.Moss,and J.H.Alpers.2001.“A Review should be
