Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


ofyoung women’s DALYs,much higher than the burden shifted to outcomes of sexual behaviors and mental 10 percent for young men. For both young men and young 1110 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Elizabeth Lule, James E. Rosen, Susheela Singh, and others diseases account for moderate proportions of DALYs (7 to Smoking,Alcohol,and Drug Use. Most adult smokers world- 11percent,depending on sex and disease group). wide begin smoking in adolescence or earlier (World Bank The disease burden among 5- to 14-year-olds is markedly 1999a).An estimated 15 percent ofyoung men and 7 percent of different from that for the 15- to 29-year-olds,and differences women age 13 to 15 are currently smoking cigarettes,according between males and females are quite small.Communicable dis- to more than 100 surveys that have been conducted since 1999 eases and respiratory illnesses account for much larger propor- by the Global Youth Tobacco Survey Program and carried out tions of DALYs for this age group compared with the 15 to under the auspices of WHO and the U.S.Centers for Disease 29age group,whereas neuropsychiatric and sexual and repro- Control and Prevention (National Research Council and HIV/AIDS accounts for less than 4 percent ofDALYs for both 100,000 young people start smoking,more than two-thirds of males and females age 5 to 14. them in LMICs (World Bank 1999a).Ofthe 300 million young people smoking today,halfwill eventually die from tobacco use . By 2030, tobacco is expected to be the single Health Risk Behaviors among Adolescents biggest cause ofdeath worldwide,accounting for about 10 mil- andYoungPeople lion deaths per year (World Bank 1999a). Young people’s vulnerability to risky or unwanted sex and Although discouraging young people from starting to other unhealthy behaviors is tied to a host ofindividual,family, smoke and providing means for them to quit is extremely and community factors that influence their behavior and important,deaths caused by tobacco tend to occur many years that are closely related to their economic and educational later. Therefore, tobacco use as an underlying risk factor intellectual development outcomes are often mutually rein- 2002).Alcohol and drug use account for 8 percent ofall DALYs Similarly, having more years of schooling provides essential women. Evidence indicates that young people are starting to information and skills that are linked to more protective and drink at earlier ages.Longitudinal studies have found that the less risky behaviors. earlier young people start drinking,the more likely they are to experience alcohol-related injuries and alcohol
