Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


more protective and drink at earlier ages.Longitudinal studies have found that the less risky behaviors. earlier young people start drinking,the more likely they are to experience alcohol-related injuries and alcohol dependence Injuries. Violence and war account for more than a quarter later in life . of injury-related deaths among young men age 15 to 29. Adolescent boys and men in their 20s are an important part of Nutrition and Exercise. Nutritional deficiencies such as ane- the military forces in all countries that have such forces. As mia are widespread in both young men and women. such,they are at high risk,particularly in areas where armed Worldwide, these conditions account for almost 5 percent of conflict is occurring.The United Nations Children’s Fund esti- DALYs among girls age 5 to 14 and almost 4 percent among mates that approximately 300,000 soldiers under the age of18 boys ofthe same age,with anemia being an important compo- are involved in armed conflicts worldwide (National Research nent for both girls and boys.Although nutritional deficiencies Council and Institute of Medicine 2005).Homicide is also an are relatively less important among 15- to 29-year-olds (just important cause of death for young men,in particular,and it over 1.0 percent among young men and about 1.5 percent is the leading cause of death for young men in some Latin among women), anemia accounts for the bulk of these defi- American countries .In addition,road accidents ciencies. Chronic undernutrition that causes stunting among account for significant proportions of injuries and deaths youngpeopledelaysgrowthandphysicalmaturation,increases among young people.Self-inflicted injuries,including suicide, risks to pregnant mothers and their newborns,and decreases problem for young people,accounting for 4 percent ofDALYs Hoddinott and Quisumbing 2003). Malnutrition can take in men age 15 to 29 and 3 percent ofDALYs in women age 15 other forms,some ofwhich lead to being overweight or obese, to 29. thereby increasing the risks for diseases such as diabetes.Such forms of malnutrition are of increasing relevance in middle- illnesses are important causes of illness and death among Egypt, Mexico, and South Africa and at times coexist with young men and women and account for a significant propor- undernutrition (see,for example,Doak and others 2000). tion ofDALYs for both men (18 percent) and women (23 per- Nutritional deficiencies increase the risks that girls and cent) age 15 to 29;for 5- to 14-year-olds,it is about 9 percent young women face during pregnancy and childbirth (Delisle, for boys and 8 percent for girls. The
