Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


girls and cent) age 15 to 29;for 5- to 14-year-olds,it is about 9 percent young women face during pregnancy and childbirth (Delisle, for boys and 8 percent for girls. The relative importance of Chandra-Mouli,and de Benoist 2001),and evidence is emerg- mental illnesses is much greater in the high-income countries. ing about the connection between poor maternal nutrition and Adolescent Health Programs | 1111 greater risk of transmission of HIV from mothers to their In the most recent surveys carried out in LMICs,high pro- infants (Piwoz and Greble 2000). portions of adolescents report that they have heard of contra- Dietandlifestyle-relatedchronicdiseases—manywiththeir ceptive methods;however,little is known about the quality and roots in childhood and adolescence—are emerging as one of accuracy of young people’s knowledge of contraception. themostimportanthealthproblemsinLMICs.Cardiovascular Moreover, substantial proportions of young women appear diseases,whichareresponsiblefor10percentofDALYslostin to have an unmet need for contraception; they are not using tors are determined to a great extent by behaviors learned want to have a child (CDC and ORC Macro 2003;Westoffand during childhood and adolescence and continued into adult- Bankole 1995). hood, such as dietary habits and smoking. Throughout the In addition to having a risk of early and unwanted preg- world,theserisksarestartingtoappearearlier.Physicalactivity nancy,adolescents are also at risk of acquiring sexually trans- hasdecreasedmarkedlyinadolescence,particularlyingirls,and mitted infections (STIs), including HIV. HIV/AIDS accounts obesityhasincreasedsubstantially(MacKayandMensah2004). for most of the sexual and reproductive health DALYs lost by young men age 15 to 29 (almost 9 percent). Among young Sexual and Reproductive Behaviors. Worldwide,the majority women age 15 to 29,HIV/AIDS accounts for a higher propor- of young people initiate sexual activity during adolescence. tion ofDALYs than for young men (almost 12 percent) because Significant proportions—in some regions and countries, the oftheir higher levels ofsusceptibility.STIs and other sexual and the age of onset of puberty has been decreasing progressively 5 percent of young women’s DALYs,much more than among for both boys and girls (National Research Council and young men.About half of all HIV infections occur in people increased in most parts ofthe world over recent decades,except young women are disproportionately affected, especially in in Latin America (Mensch, Singh, and Casterline 2003). The Sub-Saharan Africa,where young women have twice the preva- decline in the age at puberty,combined with the general trend lence rate ofyoung men . toward later marriage, increases the period of time during which adolescents may be sexually active before marriage and Poverty and Adolescent Health may result in sexual initiation at an earlier age
