Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


later marriage, increases the period of time during which adolescents may be sexually active before marriage and Poverty and Adolescent Health may result in sexual initiation at an earlier age (National Research Council and Institute ofMedicine 2005). Poverty and inadequate health systems compound adolescents’ Young women typically make the transition to marriage and vulnerability to sickness and early death. At the same time, riage predisposes girls to HIV infection through unprotected short school opportunities, by weakening or killing young sex,because the partner,by virtue ofage,has an elevated risk of people in the prime oftheir working lives,or by placing heavy being HIV positive.In addition,marriage changes adolescent financial and social burdens on families. girls’support systems,thereby limiting their access to knowl- Poor adolescents bear a disproportionate burden of the edge about HIV/AIDS (Bruce and Clark 2003). health problems in their age group.An analysis of data from All these key transitions to adulthood bring with them the demographic and health surveys (Macro International related to pregnancy and childbearing account for 16 percent between poverty and adolescents’ use of health services. For of their DALYs. Some have unwanted pregnancies, and in example,the poorest 20 percent ofyoung women are between countries where abortion is legally restricted,unsafe abortion 1.7 and 4.0 times as likely to have an early birth as the richest is an important source of mortality and morbidity for young 20 percent of young women.Similar disparities between rich women, with abortion complications accounting for almost and poor adolescents are seen for indicators such as early mar- 3 percent of DALYs worldwide among females age 15 to 29. riage, skilled attendance at birth, use of contraception, and . knowledge of HIV/AIDS transmission, and these disparities Even though adolescent childbearing has declined in recent tend to be greater for adolescents than for older women.For years,the proportion of young women who become mothers example,surveys in 45 countries show that the poorest 20 per- during adolescence remains high in most LMICs, and very cent of women age 15 to 49 have a total fertility rate almost earlychildbearingremainsanissueinsomeregions(table59.2). double that of the richest 20 percent,whereas among adoles- Childbearing before age 16 also brings with it a high risk of cents age 15 to 19,total fertility among the poorest 20 percent (Save the Children U.S.A.2004;WHO forthcoming-b). International 1990–98,unpublished raw data). 1112 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Elizabeth Lule, James E. Rosen, Susheela Singh, and others Table 59.2 Indicators of
