Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


East — — — — South and Southeast Asia — — — — Source:National Research Council 2005. — (cid:1)not available. Adolescent Health Programs | 1113 INTERVENTIONS such as tobacco and drug abuse.The lack of age-specific data and traditional reliance on mortality and morbidity statistics contribute to the unbalanced attention.Another factor may be arguably more so than for other age groups. Compared with that such behaviors tend to have longer-term health conse- children, adolescents are less protected by their families and quences that are not reflected in standard DALY calculations. communities and less amenable to simple solutions to their An additional reason for the imbalance in adolescent data may be the significant social impacts of sexual and reproductive with adults, adolescents know less about how to stay healthy behavior (for example, the contribution of high fertility to and have fewer resources to prevent or treat health problems. rapid population growth); the social and economic implica- By contrast,their behaviors are less firmly entrenched,and they tions oflarge proportions ofHIV-infected adolescents in many are often involved in institutional activities, such as schools, countries;the mortality implications of initiating tobacco use training programs,and the military,where programs with high during adolescence;and the antisocial behavior associated with coverage can be sustained. The influences on young people’s substance abuse.Public health systems’efforts to address health behaviors are becoming better understood (Blum and Mmari problems associated with road safety, malaria, and mental 2004; Pitts and others 2004), but even given what is known health have devoted inadequate attention to developing and about such influences,the challenge ofdesigning interventions implementing programs that target adolescents. to reinforce protective factors and mitigate risk factors remains. far beyond the purview ofhealth program managers. Two recent reviews summarize research on the effectiveness of Programs will have to seek multisectoral solutions that link adolescent sexual and reproductive health interventions. health sector interventions with other types of interventions Table59.3 presents the results ofthe FOCUS on Young Adults delivered through other sectors,either at the program level or (2001) review. The FOCUS report looks at interventions in at the policy level.The difficulty in attributing improvements LMICs and is based on relatively rigorous evaluations of 40 in health outcomes among adolescents to interventions deliv- programs.The general findings from the FOCUS review,sup- ered in multiple settings or sectors reflects the challenges plemented by more recent research findings,are as follows: involved. Programs aimed at young people are relatively new and untested.Nevertheless,accumulated experience,backed by •
