Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


in multiple settings or sectors reflects the challenges plemented by more recent research findings,are as follows: involved. Programs aimed at young people are relatively new and untested.Nevertheless,accumulated experience,backed by • Almost all programs are effective in promoting positive knowl- an increasing body of research,has created international con- edge and attitudes.Almost all the rigorously evaluated pro- sensus around a multi-intervention approach centered on the grams that FOCUS reviewed improved knowledge ofrepro- following : ductive health and selected attitudes. • Most programs effectively influence behaviors.A majority of • Young people need information and skills to make the right programs significantly changed at least one important ado- whether and when to have sex and whether to use tobacco. however,programs tried and failed to improve many impor- • Young people need access to a broad range ofhealth services tant behaviors. Where research has found programs to be that give them the means to act on their knowledge,includ- effective in changing behaviors,such changes have typically ing access to condoms. not been large. • Young people need a social,legal,and regulatory environ- • All six categories of interventions studied proved effective at ment that supports healthy behaviors and protects them influencing reproductive behavior in at least one study.How- from harm. ever, maintaining that certain models are more effective than others is impossible because the period ofobservation Interventions to improve adolescent health have typically and the behaviors that were influenced varied by study. reflected this consensus and are echoed in goalsthat have been Moreover,further replications in multiple settings are nec- adopted internationally. essary to provide a basis for identifying the key features or This section summarizes what is known about the effective- elements ofsuccessful interventions. ness of such interventions.Note that the health community’s • The evidence base is limited in a number ofways.Few studies greater importance to the adolescent age group, at least as many promising approaches have not been rigorously eval- measured by indicators such as DALYS.Much ofthe focus has uated. Only a few studies assessed effects on the use of 1114 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Elizabeth Lule, James E. Rosen, Susheela Singh, and others Number of programs showing significant impact/Total number of programs studied Impact on key behaviors Improved Reduced Increased Increased Improved at Number of knowledge Delayed number of contraceptive service least one Type of program studiesa and attitudes sex partners use use behavior All programs 40 33/36 6/17 6/10 18/23
