Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


that incorporate both youth evidence of effectiveness on a range of outcomes has emerged development and reproductive health components.Kirby finds for the following interventions: that programs in all three categories proved effective in reduc- ing sexual risk taking, pregnancy, and childbearing among • Life-skillsandhealthandsexualityeducationinschools.Well- teens.In relation to youth development programs,Kirby finds designed, well-implemented sexuality and reproductive that a type ofintervention known as service learning,in which healtheducationcanprovideyoungpeoplewithasolidfoun- students work on community projects,had the strongest evi- dationofknowledgeandskillstoenablethemtoengagein dence ofeffectiveness.By contrast,other types ofyouth devel- safeandresponsiblesexualbehavior. opment programs were not effective in improving reproductive • Peer education. Peer education programs are especially health outcomes.Programs that incorporate both youth devel- appropriateforyoungpeoplewhoarenotinschoolandfor over long periods. includingsexworkersandstreetchildren. Adolescent Health Programs | 1115 • Mass media and community mobilization. Mass media and a school.After two years,observed effects ofdeworming treat- community mobilization efforts that engage influential ment included fewer absences and lower dropout rates,but no adults,such as parents,teachers,community and religious effect on test scores (World Bank 2002a). The treatment also itive adolescent behaviors and gender roles as well as direct untreated children in the same schools,as well as in neighbor- • Youth development programs.Youth development programs externalities. typically address a range ofkey adolescent needs,including life skills,education,jobs,and psychosocial needs.U.S.pro- Tobacco. Price increases are the most effective tool for reduc- grams with a voluntary community service component have ing or deterring the use oftobacco products by young people. but no evidence is available for developing countries. have a greater effect on tobacco use by young people than on • Clinical health services. Although some young people seek use by older age groups (University of Illinois at Chicago ers, particularly when seeking care and advice on matters comprehensive bans on all advertising,including bans on the related to sexuality. promotion of tobacco products and trademarks (World Bank • Social marketing. This approach involves the use of public 2002d).Programs that give young people the skills to resist peer health messages to promote healthy behaviors and the use of pressureandothersocialpressurestosmokehavedemonstrated condoms and other health products and services.Effective consistent and significant reductions or delays in adolescent programs bring products and services to places in the com- smoking.School-based programs are also more effective when munity that young people frequent,such as shops,kiosks, combined with communitywide supportive efforts. Informa- and pharmacies. tion campaigns that help young people see how the tobacco • Workplace and private sector programs.Programs that reach industry tries to manipulate their behavior through advertising young people
