Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


and pharmacies. tion campaigns that help young people see how the tobacco • Workplace and private sector programs.Programs that reach industry tries to manipulate their behavior through advertising young people do so at their places ofwork and through pri- have been highly effective in changing behavior and attitudes vate channels, such as pharmacies and for-profit medical toward smoking among young people in the United States services, where many young people prefer to seek care. (American Legacy Foundation 2002). Many successful U.S.youth development programs have a work component. Promising but Unproven Interventions Many promising adolescent-focused interventions have not Evidence of Other Adolescent Health Interventions yet been rigorously evaluated. These interventions include been recognized as adolescent-specific problems that require MacLaren 1999);programs that combine livelihoods skills with youth-focused interventions. reproductive health information and services ; voluntary counseling programs on and testing for HIV Nutrition. Because anemia is a critical health problem in ;actions aimed at changing social norms such many countries,many efforts have focused on improving the as gender roles ;and interventions that address iron intake ofadult women.Interventions aimed at adolescent the political and social context (WHO forthcoming-a).A few girls have found that daily iron supplementation effectively studiesofmultiprongedapproachesarejustbecomingavailable lowers anemia and iron deficiency (Elder 2002; MotherCare and have shown mixed results.Findings from a four-country 2000). Obesity is rapidly becoming a serious health problem study found little or no effect of such an approach on key often also associated with loss of self-esteem among adoles- Horizons,and YouthNet 2004).By contrast,a study in Tanzania cents.A few studies show that preventing obesity is more suc- found that a multicomponent approach had a significant effect Chandra-Mouli,and de Benoist 2001). outcomes (AMREF,LSHTM,and NIMR 2003). Other possibly promising efforts include suicide prevention ongoing World Bank study is evaluating the effect on learning (interpersonally or through the mass media), and malaria outcomes ofproviding deworming treatment to all students in treatment programs that focus on young people. Adequate 1116 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Elizabeth Lule, James E. Rosen, Susheela Singh, and others evaluation is available on the efficacy of programs promoting synergistic effects that promote overall economic development the use ofseat belts and crash helmets through enforcement of (Birdsall, Kelley, and Sinding 2001). For example, shifts to related laws and the support of intensive publicity and infor- smaller family size and slower rates of population growth in mation campaigns,as well as on the efficacy of programs pre- East
