Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


laws and the support of intensive publicity and infor- smaller family size and slower rates of population growth in mation campaigns,as well as on the efficacy of programs pre- East Asia appear to have played a key role in the creation ofan venting alcohol use among adolescents. The evaluations are educated workforce,the accumulation of household and gov- sufficient for building confidence for investment, and they ernment savings,the rise in wages,and the spectacular growth serve as a basis for intervention design (National Research of investment in manufacturing technology. The shift to Council and Institute ofMedicine 2004;WHO 2004d). smaller families that is taking place in many countries will open another window of opportunity as workers have proportion- ately fewer old and young dependents to support. OFINTERVENTIONS resulting economic gains will improve their overall quality of life. Education, particularly for girls, is strongly related to rare.The reported cost ofsuch programs varies greatly depend- cated are more likely to delay marriage and childbearing, ing on the country, type of intervention, target group, and whereas girls with less education are more likely to become soon.For example,such programs cost between US$0.03 per mothers as adolescents.Unfortunately,the causal relationships adolescent reached in a family life education radio program in involved are not clear.Are girls more likely to get married when school-based HIV prevention program in Zimbabwe. Of the schooling and marry early? The difference is critical.In the first 32programs studied,12 have a unit cost ofless than US$10 per case,the appropriate policy response would focus on improv- year, and others have a unit cost of US$10 to US$25 ing schooling opportunities for girls. In the second case, (table59.4).Cost estimates are available only for certain types research would need to be done first to determine the underly- of interventions, with most of the estimates being for repro- ing reasons for girls’—and their parents’—preferences for early ductive health and HIV education programs. A few studies marriage instead ofadditional schooling.The next step would have tried to measure cost per DALY of adolescent sexual and be to assess whether these reasons appear to reflect the girls’ widely.For example,in India,a youth-focused HIV prevention address the root causes ofthis preference. program costs US$66.20 per DALY gained; in Honduras, the Themicroapproachtomeasuringtheeconomicbenefitsof cost of a voluntary counseling and testing program aimed at interventionsistobuildonmicroeconomicestimatesofdirect youth is US$5,873.00 per DALY gained. productivity effects that can be measured in monetary terms. The estimates shown in table 59.4 should be interpreted
