Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


is an obvious one: programs to reach young people are not 1120 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Elizabeth Lule, James E. Rosen, Susheela Singh, and others simply programs for adults applied to a younger population; involvement in the community can either increase (risk fac- they require different thinking and a different approach. tor) or decrease (protective factor) the chances that a young person will engage in unhealthy behaviors. Determining Key Principles of Health Programming forAdolescents Making a Difference on a Large Scale Experience to date suggests that effective,youth-focused efforts Adolescenthealthprogramsarecomplexandmaynotbeeasyto share a set of common general principles. These principles scaleupbecauseoftechnical,management,andpoliticalchal- include the following: lenges. The following are examples of adolescent health pro- gramsthatarenationalinscope.Unfortunately,littleisknown • Recognize the diversity of the youth age group. A sexually aboutthecostsandeffectivenessofsuchlarge-scaleefforts. inexperienced 11-year-old has vastly different needs than a married 20-year-old. Programs should apply different National Suicide Prevention Program in New Zealand. strategies to reach youth,who vary by age,sex,employment, Amongindustrialnations,NewZealandhasoneofthehighest schooling,and marital status. suicide rates for both males and females age 15 to 24 (New • Involveyoungpeople.Policiesandprogramsaremoreeffective ZealandMinistryofHealth2002).In1998,onthebasisofinter- whenyoungpeopleareinvolvedinallaspectsoftheirdesign, nationalgoodpractice,thegovernmentdevelopedtheNational implementation, and evaluation. Involvement must go YouthSuicidePreventionStrategy.Thisstrategy,whichincludes beyondtokenismandbegenuine,meaningful,andsustained. acomponentforthegeneralpopulationandonethatfocuses expanding young people’s access to health services is to understanding suicide prevention and signals the steps that make them more youth friendly by using specially trained governmentagencies,communities,andserviceprovidersmust and accessibility ofcare. been in place long enough to adequately gauge its effects, in • Address gender inequality.Gender inequalities expose young 1999,thefirstyearfollowingtheadoptionofthestrategy,youth girls to coerced sex, HIV infection, unwanted pregnancy, suicideratesfelltotheirlowestlevelssince1991. and poor nutrition. Efforts should focus on changing the factors that perpetuate gender inequalities. SexualityEducationinMongolia. Mongoliahasimplemented • Address the needs of boys. Adolescence presents a unique alocallydevelopedandtestedsexualityeducationcurriculumin opportunity to help boys form positive notions of gender 60 percent of schools nationwide. Current challenges include relations and to raise their awareness ofhealth issues.At the increasingthenumberofhoursallocatedtosexualityeducation; same time,boys seem to be disproportionately exposed to a developingmoreandbetterwrittenresourcesforadolescents, injuries,suicide,tobacco use,substance abuse,and violence. communicatebetterwiththeirchildrenonsexuality;expanding Program design should take into account the specific needs access to clinical services for adolescents through the public ofboys and young men as well as ofgirls and young women. healthsystem;reachingout-of-schoolyouthsandthebroader • Design comprehensive programs. Comprehensive programs communitywithsexualityeducation;andmonitoringandeval- that provide information and services while addressing the uating the program regularly to assess its weaknesses and social and political context are more effective than narrowly strengthsandhowitcouldbeimproved(Gerdts2002). focused interventions. Addressing the Health Needs of Poor Youth • Consider all important benefits. Many adolescent health interventions focus on only one benefit.
