Chapter
KEYWORDS: young, programs, health, age, adolescent, people, interventions, young people, youth, percent, program, adolescents, hiv, education, use


context are more effective than narrowly strengthsandhowitcouldbeimproved(Gerdts2002). focused interventions. Addressing the Health Needs of Poor Youth • Consider all important benefits. Many adolescent health interventions focus on only one benefit. For example, a The following strategies, based on what is known about ser- school-based sex education program may focus exclusively vices for poor people more generally and about the specific on HIV prevention and may neglect other possible benefits needs ofyoung people,show promise for meeting the needs of from the intervention,such as increased education,averted poor youth: teen pregnancy and abortions,and other averted STIs. • Address the many nonhealth factors that influence adolescent • Targeting out-of-school youth. Out-of-school youth of a health.Linking school and livelihood opportunities to ado- given age are likely to be more marginalized than those who level,is key to helping young people avoid risky behaviors. ical services,such as pregnancy prevention and prevention • Address underlying risk and protective factors.Factors such as of HIV/AIDS and other STIs. A number of countries, feelings of self-efficacy, attitudes and behaviors of friends, including Paraguay, South Africa, and Zimbabwe, have connectedness with parents and other influential adults,and launched effective programs targeting out-of-school youth Adolescent Health Programs | 1121 that combine the use of mass media, peer education, and • Strengthening the stewardship oversight function of govern- community-based efforts. For instance, the Arte y Parte ments. Governments have a key role to play in developing Paraguay using a booklet about adolescent sexuality,street sectors; in contributing to cross-sectoral policies such as drama, radio programming, newspaper columns, and dis- national youth policies;and in providing input into policy tribution ofpromotional items (Magnani and others 2000). making in other sectors, especially education and labor. • Focusing efforts on vulnerable youth.Young people who have Ideally,governments should have an overarching adolescent been orphaned or left vulnerable by AIDS typically rely first health policy with specific reference to adolescent health on their extended families and communities for support. inpolicy documents for specific programs or diseases,such Efforts to help vulnerable youth should strengthen those as for AIDS,tuberculosis,malaria,sexual and reproductive where a nongovernmental organization–sponsored effort Project and YouthNet forthcoming). works through existing government structures to help orphans and other vulnerable children (Phiri, Foster, and Nzima 2001). RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENDA • Tailoring subsidized programs to poor youth. Social market- ing of reproductive health products and services—such as The striking lack ofgood research and evaluation ofadolescent contraceptives and condoms for pregnancy and disease pre-
