cells
KEYWORDS: ii-, figure, cdg, patient, cid, mass, patients, cid cid, showed, normal, japan, oligosaccharide, protein, transferrin, patients ii-


such as the prolongation of the prothrombin time (PT)/activated partial prothrombin time (APTT) and low levels of antithrombin (AT), with the following peaks: AST 465 IU/L, ALT 122 IU/L, PT-INR 1.48, APTT 48.4 sec (reference 33.0 sec), and AT activity 29%. Protein C and protein S activities were also 50% lower than normal values. These findings gradually improved within two weeks without symptoms of severe acute liver failure. Horizontal nystagmus appeared at approximately the same time; however, the patient was able to sit unaided, smile at caregivers, and was interested in playing with toys. He developed slowly thereafter and started to walk unaided at 3 years and speak several words by 4 years. Although EEG continued to show spikes and waves mainly over the frontal area (Figure 1B), he remained free of seizures. sentences and the intelligence quotient was less than 35. A mild elevation in AST (41–53) was detected, whereas ALT and PT-INR remained within normal limits. Mild dysmorphic features were evident, including hypertelorism, epicanthal folds, down-slanting palpebral fissures, low-set ears, prognathism, thick lips, and microretrognathism. Furthermore, joint hypermobility and scoliosis were noted without truncal obesity or overeating. [PATIENT]-2: The patient (Figure 1A), an 11-year-old girl and the younger sister of patient II-1, was born at 38 weeks of gestation by Caesarean section free of asphyxia, weighing 2776 g. Mild muscle hypotonia, recurrent apneic episodes, and irritability were noted on the first day of life. Brain CT showed a massive low-density area in the left cerebral hemisphere, indicating infarction of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) (Figure 1C). Laboratory tests showed normal PT and APTT, with decreased protein C and protein S activities to 50% of normal levels, similar to patient II-1. AST was mildly elevated (up to 66 IU/L), while ALT and direct bilirubin were within normal limits. Further blood tests showed moderately elevated levels of ALP (up to 2556 IU/L). The patient started to walk at the age of 22 months and speak some meaningful words. Protein C and protein S activities increased to the lowest normal limits by 3 years. In the latest visit to the clinic at dysmorphic features, similar to those observed in [PATIENT]-1. AST, ALT, and PT-INR Cells2021,10,3117 3of14 values were within normal limits; however, AT activity was still decreased to 73%. No truncal obesity was present. Her sister, II-3, has developed normally so far. Figure 1. (A) Pedigree of the family, (B)
