cells
KEYWORDS: ii-, figure, cdg, patient, cid, mass, patients, cid cid, showed, normal, japan, oligosaccharide, protein, transferrin, patients ii-


ESI-MS. Patient sam- ples showed an isoform with a molecular mass of 79,219 and normal tetrasialylated trans- ferrin with a molecular mass of 79,551 in the deconvoluted spectrum (Figure 2A), while the latter was the only major peak in the blood sample obtained from a healthy individual (Figure 2B). Mass differences between wild and abnormal molecules calculated from orig- inal multi-charged mass spectra were 331.0 ± 1.2 and 331.9 ± 1.5 Da (mean ± SD, n = 10) for patients II-1 and II-2, respectively (see Supplemental Figure S1). This difference may be attributed to alterations in the glycan moiety rather than a polymorphism in the protein backbone sequence. Furthermore, the decrease of 330–333 Da suggested the replacement of the hybrid for a biantennary oligosaccharide. The multi-charged mass spectra of serum transferrin from patients II-1 and II-2 are shown in Supplemental Figure S3. Since the mass of the abnormal isoform suggested the presence of a hybrid-type oli- gosaccharide at one of the two glycosylation sites of transferrin (i.e., Asn413 and Asn611), a site-specific analysis was conducted by MALDI-TOF-MS. Interestingly, the hybrid-type glycan was detected at Asn413, but not at Asn611 (Figure 2C). This may have been due to a difference in the accessibility of the MAN1B1 enzyme to the oligosaccharide in the nas- cent glycoprotein molecule. Therefore, the glycan on Asn611 may be more accessible to glycan-processing enzymes in the Golgi. In Figure 3, two candidate structures were avail- able for the hybrid-type oligosaccharide. Since MAN1B1 removes the terminally α1,2- linked mannose in the middle arm of the substrate Man9GlcNAc2 oligosaccharide , Cells2021,10,3117 7of14 the structure with a linear mannose was more plausible. Figure3.Massspectrometry.Thehybridoligosaccharidecontainingalinearmannosestrandwasthe Figure 3. Mass spectrometry. The hybrid oligosaccharide containing a linear mannose strand was morelikelycandidateinthestructuresgivenonthesignaturepeak(seethetextforanexplanation). the more likely candidate in the structures given on the signature peak (see the text for an explanation). ThemolecularmassofserumtransferrinwasalsoanalyzedbyESI-MS.Patientsamples 3.2. WshEoSw anedd Sananigseorf oSremquwenictihnag molecularmassof79,219andnormaltetrasialylatedtransferrin WwiEthS awmaso pleecrufolarmrmeda stso oidfe7n9t,i5f5y1 thine tgheende eccaounsvinoglu ttheed CsDpeGc-tIrIu dmef(iFciiegnucrye. 2AAf)t,erw thhiel eidthene-latter tificatwioans othf evaornilaynmts aajnodr pfielatekriinngt hoeubt lvoaordiasnatms pprleesoebntta iinn ethdef rvoamrioauhse paultbhlyici npdoipvuidlautiaoln(F digatuar-e2B). basesM anadss sdynifofenryemncoeuss bSeNtwPse,e wnew foilcduasendd oanb nnoonrm-syanlomnoylmecouulse svcaarilacnutlsa,t sepdlifcreo amccoerpitgoirn aanldm ulti- chargedmassspectrawere331.0±1.2and331.9±1.5Da(mean±SD,n=10)forpatients II-1andII-2,respectively(seeSupplementalFigureS1). Thisdifferencemaybeattributed toalterationsintheglycanmoietyratherthanapolymorphismintheproteinbackbone sequence.Furthermore,thedecreaseof330–333Dasuggestedthereplacementofthehybrid forabiantennaryoligosaccharide. Themulti-chargedmassspectraofserumtransferrin frompatientsII-1andII-2areshowninSupplementalFigureS3. Since the mass of the abnormal isoform suggested the presence of a hybrid-type oligosaccharideatoneofthetwoglycosylationsitesoftransferrin(i.e.,Asn413andAsn611), asite-specificanalysiswasconductedbyMALDI-TOF-MS.Interestingly,thehybrid-type glycanwasdetectedatAsn413,butnotatAsn611(Figure2C).Thismayhavebeendue toadifferenceintheaccessibilityoftheMAN1B1enzymetotheoligosaccharideinthe nascentglycoproteinmolecule. Therefore,theglycanonAsn611maybemoreaccessible toglycan-processing enzymesintheGolgi. InFigure3, twocandidate structureswere availableforthehybrid-typeoligosaccharide. SinceMAN1B1removestheterminallyα1,2- linkedmannoseinthemiddlearmofthesubstrateMan GlcNAc oligosaccharide, 9 2 thestructurewithalinearmannosewasmoreplausible. 3.2. WESandSangerSequencing WESwasperformedtoidentifythegenecausingtheCDG-IIdeficiency. Afterthe identificationofvariantsandfilteringoutvariantspresentinthevariouspublicpopulation databasesandsynonymousSNPs,wefocusedonnon-synonymousvariants,spliceacceptor anddonorsitevariants,andshort,frameshiftcodingindels,whicharemorelikelytobe
