Hindawi
KEYWORDS: manometry, patients, patient, motility, esophageal, catheter, les, dysphagia, egj, achalasia, esophagus, year-old, prior, unsedated, patient year-old


visible damage to the motility catheter. After allowing sufficient time to awaken (usually medication (33.3%), and completion of preoperative assess- 5 to 10 minutes), patients were given 10 consecutive 5-mL ment(27.7%). boluses of normal saline, followed by 5mL of a viscous We report our single-center experience on endoscopy- solution(DiversatekHealthcareInc)asneeded,whilebeing and monitored anesthesia care- (MAC-) assisted high- insupinepositionforatotalof10to20swallows.Esophageal resolution esophageal impedance manometry in adult muscle functions were recorded using the Diversatek ZVU patients to demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of software.Themotilitycatheterwasremovedattheendofthe thistechnique. procedure.Onaverage,theEGD-assistedHRiMstudytook about 30 minutes versus 15 to 20 minutes for conventional 2.MaterialsandMethods HRiMtest. We evaluated patients who had failed prior attempts at 3.Results manometry in the office setting for this study. All MAC- and EGD-assisted HRiM studies were performed within As shown in Table 1, from January 1, 2017, to December 31, one week of prior failed attempts of unsedated HRiM tests. 2017, our institution performed high-resolution esophageal Subjects arrived at the endoscopy suite after fasting for a impedance manometry (HRiM) on 164 unique patients. Of minimumof6hours.Topicalanesthesiawasprovidedwith these,63receivedmanometry/impedance-pHteststoevalu- Cetacaine (benzocaine 14%, butamben 2%, and tetracaine aterefractoryGERD(38.4%);sixmanometry/impedance-pH hydrochloride 2%) spray to the throat and 5mL of viscous testswereperformedaspartoflungtransplantpreoperative lidocaine 2% solution to the nares. Patients were then evaluation(3.7%);91manometryforevaluationofdysphagia sedated using propofol at the anesthetist’s discretion in a (55.5%);andfourmanometrytoevaluateatypicalchestpain monitored anesthesia care (MAC) setting. First, while, in the supine position, patients underwent a standard upper (2.4%). Forty-seven patients (29%) had an incomplete or endoscopyusinganOlympusGIFH180orH190gastroscope; limitedstudyeitheratourinstitutionoronpreviousattempts an Olympus GIF XP190 scope was required in some cases. withoutsideproviders. Ofthese, 14 patientswereunable to A Diversateck HRiM motility catheter was then passed toleratetheprocedureduetoexcessivegaggingorcoughing through the right or left nostril into the esophagus and (30%); in 20 patients, we were unable to pass the catheter proximal stomach, under direct visualization and guidance through either nostril (43%), and, in 11 patients (23%), the with an endoscope. The tip of the catheter was centered catheter was unable to traverse the EGJ/LES or was coiled directly above the esophagogastric junction (EGJ) prior to in the distal esophagus. We reviewed the charts of these entering the stomach. One patient required insertion of a patients, who either failed unsedated manometry or had nasopharyngeal trumpeted airway to allow passage of the knownanatomicabnormalitieslimitingunsedatedmanom- manometry catheter through the nares due to a history of etry, and found 14 consecutive patients who underwent prior craniofacial surgery. Once the manometry probe was MAC-assisted endoscopic probe placement. A brief clinical in the correct position, the endoscope was
