Hindawi
KEYWORDS: manometry, patients, patient, motility, esophageal, catheter, les, dysphagia, egj, achalasia, esophagus, year-old, prior, unsedated, patient year-old


above the EGJ with into the esophagus. Due to difficulty traversing the EGJ, an significantsymptomaticimprovement. OlympusGIFXP190scopewasusedtohelpguidetheprobe Patient 8 was a 63-year-old man with a history of a into proximal stomach. Manometry revealed EGJ outflow bilateral lung transplant due to silicosis with episodes of obstruction and he was treated successfully with a calcium recurrent aspiration and a barium esophagram concerning channelblocker. foragastroesophagealjunctionstricture.Duetothisknown Patient10wasa66-year-oldmanwithtwoyearsofwors- abnormality, direct visualization following standard upper eningdysphagiaand40-lbweightlossreferredfromanother endoscopy exam was used to help advance the manometry institution after an EGD showed a dilated esophagus and probepastatightloweresophagealsphincter.Adiagnosisof EGJoutflowobstructionwasmade;duetofragilepulmonary inabilitytotraversetheEGJwiththeendoscope,suggestive status following frequent aspiration events, a percutaneous of achalasia. He underwent repeat EGD at our institution, endoscopicgastrostomytubewasplacedfollowingthisdiag- noting a tight EGJ/LES that was traversed with moderate nosis. pressure.Underdirectvisualization,themanometrycatheter Patient 9 was a 65-year-old man with a history of was placed into the distal esophagus but was unable to be dysphagia who failed awake manometry due to inability advanced further due to patient’s oxygen desaturation that CaseReportsinGastrointestinalMedicine 5 (a) (b) (c) (d) Figure1:ExamplesofnasopharyngealandlaryngealissuesaddressedwithMAC-assistedendoscopicplacement.(a)Nasaltrumpetusedfor deviatedseptumandpriorsinussurgery.(b)Coilingofthemotilitycatheterintheposteriororopharynxatthevalleculaoftheepiglottis.(c) Motilitycathetervisualizedinthetracheapriortobeingendoscopicallyguidedthroughtheupperesophagealsphincter(UES).(d)Successful placementofthemotilitycatheterthroughtheUES. resolvedafterpropofolinfusionwasdiscontinued.Manom- of prior myotomy and patent EGJ/LES. Postsurgical type I etryrevealedaperistalsiswithpanesophagealpressurization achalasia was diagnosed based on manometry findings and that,inconjunctionwiththeEGDresultsandbariumesopha- dietarymodificationswererecommended. gramshowingtaperingofthedistalesophagus,wasstrongly Patient 13 was a 61-year-old man with a two-year suggestive of type II achalasia. The patient was referred for history of solid and liquid dysphagia. An esophagram andunderwentsuccessfulPOEM. revealedsmoothnarrowingofthegastroesophagealjunction Patient 11 was a 58-year-old man with a history of with incomplete relaxation, a bird’s beak appearance, and bilaterallungtransplantduetocryptogenicorganizingpneu- esophageal dysmotility suggestive of achalasia. Unsedated monia referred for recurrent aspiration pneumonia and manometry was attempted and revealed absent peristalsis. abnormal esophagram with poor antegrade peristalsis and However,theprobehadloopedinthedistalesophagusand distal intraesophageal reflux. After failing unsedated probe didnottraversetheEGJ.Duetotheuncertaintyindiagnosis, placement,heunderwentEGDwithendoscopicplacementof the patient underwent endoscopy-guided placement of the themotilitycatheterintotheproximalstomach.Manometry motility catheter into the proximal stomach under MAC. revealedineffectiveesophagealmotility. EGDshowedpatentEGJ/LES.Manometryconfirmedabsent Patient 12 was a 24-year-old woman with a history of contractilityanddietarymodificationswererecommended. TypeIachalasiawhohadundergoneHellermyotomyseven Patient 14 was a 75-year-old woman with a history years earlier and complained of progressively worsening of atypical chest pain and dysphagia who did not toler- dysphagia. Unsedated manometry was unsuccessful, as the ate unsedated manometry due to gagging. She underwent probe was not able to enter the esophagus. During sedated successful placement of the manometry catheter into the probeplacementwithdirectvisualization,theprobewasnot proximal stomach with EGD guidance under MAC. EGD able to enter esophagus via the right pyriform sinus. The showedpatentEGJ/LES.Manometryfindingswereconsistent probewasrepositionedtotheleftpyriformsinusandableto withabsentcontractilityandshewascurrentlytreatedwith beadvancedintoproximalstomach.EGDshowedevidence Bethanechol. 6 CaseReportsinGastrointestinalMedicine (a) (b) (c) (d) Figure 2: Examples of esophagogastric junction (EGJ) issues addressed
