Hindawi
KEYWORDS: manometry, patients, patient, motility, esophageal, catheter, les, dysphagia, egj, achalasia, esophagus, year-old, prior, unsedated, patient year-old


able to enter esophagus via the right pyriform sinus. The showedpatentEGJ/LES.Manometryfindingswereconsistent probewasrepositionedtotheleftpyriformsinusandableto withabsentcontractilityandshewascurrentlytreatedwith beadvancedintoproximalstomach.EGDshowedevidence Bethanechol. 6 CaseReportsinGastrointestinalMedicine (a) (b) (c) (d) Figure 2: Examples of esophagogastric junction (EGJ) issues addressed with MAC-assisted endoscopic placement. (a) Motility catheter (arrow)hungupathiatalhernia.(b)Motilitycatheter(arrow)impededattightloweresophagealsphincter(LES)inapatientwithachalasia withatightLES.(c)Motilitycatheter(arrow)visualizedpassingthroughtheEGJunderdirectvisualization.(d)Endoscopicconfirmationof successfulplacementofthemotilitycatheterthroughtheLESintothestomach. 4.Discussion substantial portion of our cohort (35.7% - POEM 21.4%, Botox injection 7.1%, PEG 7.1%), as well as medical therapy We report our experience with MAC/endoscopy-assisted in three patients (21.4%), or dietary modifications in four dated manometry had previously failed or was contraindi- findings supported the decision to defer further interven- cated. Theapproachwasusedinasubset ofourpatientsin tional procedures, including two patients with previously whom manometric data was required prior to referral for treated achalasia found to have a normal IRP, and two possibleinvasiveproceduresorinwhomtherewasdiagnostic patientswithpriorhiatalherniarepairunderconsideration uncertainty.Notably,allproceduresweresuccessfulwithout forsurgicalrevision.Lastly,inonepre-lungtransplantpatient anyperi-orpostproceduralcomplications. (Patient#4),anewdiagnosisofachalasiaassistedthepatient This technique effectively overcame anatomical issues in deciding not to pursue lung transplantation after a risk- related to esophageal tortuosity, distal esophageal dilation, benefitdiscussionwiththetransplantteam. tight LES, deviated septum, or prior craniofacial surgery, Limitations of this study include the small sample size, respectively. Additionally, patient-related issues such as retrospective review of the cases, and lack of a controlled excessivecoughingorgaggingandinabilitytocompletethe comparative group. However, our study does show the study due to excessive discomfort were managed. Lastly, potential benefit of pursuing objective HRiM data and a direct visualization was able to resolve uncertainty in definitive diagnosis in patients who fail initial attempts at cases with questionable prior manometric findings related unsedated manometry. Due to the additional expense and to uncertain probe placement. Examples of nasopharyn- smallincreaseinriskofcomplicationduetotheendoscopic geal/laryngeal and esophageal/EGJ issues of manometry procedure and required sedation, we only selected a subset probeplacementareshowninFigures1and2,respectively. of our patients in whom there was a particularly high In our experience, the use of endoscopy-assisted HRiM suspicionofamajormotilitydisorderinwhichaprocedural allowed for the successful diagnosis of dysphagia and intervention might be beneficial. Also, we selected patients subsequent treatment with a procedural intervention in a in whom the decision to recommend a surgical procedure CaseReportsinGastrointestinalMedicine 7 was, in large part, dependent on the manometry findings. A. J. Bredenoord, M. Fox, P. J. Kahrilas, J. E. Pandolfino, Furthermore, obtaining a definitive manometric diagnosis W. Schwizer, and A. J. P. M. Smout, “Chicago classification for spastic esophageal disorders as the cause of dysphagia criteriaofesophagealmotilitydisordersdefinedinhighreso- becomes increasingly important as POEM emerged as an lutionesophagealpressuretopography,”Neurogastroenterology attractivetreatmentoption. &Motility,vol.24,supplement1,pp.57–65,2012. Another potential limitation of this technique is that R. Brun, K. Staller, S. Viner, and B. Kuo, “Endoscopically the effect of anesthesia on esophageal
