Angelettietal.BMCNephrology (2021) 22:146
KEYWORDS: ibd, renal, nephritis, iga, nephropathy, etal, reported, kidney, interstitial, disease, case, cid, iga nephropathy, inflammatory, manifestations


defincienciesrelatedtoVEO-IBD resultednegative. the definitive pathological mechanisms are still far to be In February2016, afirstepisode ofhematuria anddys- completely clarified. Growing studies reported as an im- uria was reported: urine examination tested positive for pairment of T cell function may represent a pivotal red blood cells and proteins not in nephrotic range, pathwayboth inCDandinUC. while urine colture and renal ultrasound were negative. Extraintestinal manifestations of IBD, probably reflect- Renal function, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, reactive- ing the systemic inflammation, are common and occur c-protein and serum complement components C3 and in approximately one third of patients .Renal involve- C4 were normal. In September 2017, the persistence of ment is described in around 4–23% of patients with IBD microhematuria and mild proteinuria (<1g/die) led to a , but reports are limited to few case series and retro- kidney biopsy that revealed IgA nephropathy with mod- spective analysis. Proteinuria, hematuria, and/or impair- erate mesangial hypercellularity (M1,E0,S0,T0 according ment of renal function may reflect urological disorders to the Oxford Classification ) (Fig. 1). Steroidal chymal kidney disease . IgA nephropathy is consid- posed by Pozzi et al. were administrated from No- ered the typical histological finding on renal biopsy of vember 2017 to May 2018 with complete remission of patients with IBD, but also tubulointerstitial nephritis renal disease. Urine sample were monitored every 6 have been reported. Tubulointerstitial nephritis is often months resulting always negative until January 2020, caused by drugs (5-aminosalicylates) , but it may rep- when macrohaematuria was once again reported during resent a true extraintestinal manifestation of IBD itself an episode of fever and diarrhea. Renal function was andoccur inthe absence ofdrugsadministration. normalwithnoproteinuria. Herein, we describe the case of a 10-years old male af- After high steroid therapy, IBD was well controlled fected by very early onset (VEO) unclassified-IBD (IBD- with Infliximab and rectal mesalazine plus steroid for 2 U) since he was 1-year old, already treated for IgA ne- months. From May 2020 recurrent episodes of isolated phropathy at the age of 7, and now presenting with a fever every 2 to 3days were reported. The temperature flare of IBD associated with acute kidney injury due to rise was well controlled with paracetamol and never as- granulomatous interstitial nephritis. sociated with abdominal pain or diarrhea. Macrohaema- To our knowledge, no previous reports have described turiaappearedagain byAugust2020. thisdualrenalpathologyinIBD. In September 2020, the boy was admitted to Gastro- enterology department of our Paediatric Hospital
