Angelettietal.BMCNephrology (2021) 22:146
KEYWORDS: ibd, renal, nephritis, iga, nephropathy, etal, reported, kidney, interstitial, disease, case, cid, iga nephropathy, inflammatory, manifestations


mechanisms are probably implicated, such as lapse . The second kidney biopsy (Fig. 2), performed cytokine-induced inflammation leading to both glom- during a further colitis relapse 3 years later, documented erular and intestinal tract inflammation and damage chronic mesangial lesions, with a degeneration of some . Increasing evidence support as the mucosal im- glomeruli that were already compromised, with no de- mune system is involved in primitive IgA nephropa- position ofIgAat immunofluorescence. thy. The mesangial deposits in IgA nephropathy are As extraintestinal manifestations of IBD tubular injur- mainly polymeric IgA1, for which the mucosal im- ies have a reported prevalence between 2 and 16% mune system represents the major source. Infections among renal manifestations . In some cases, in the respiratory or gastrointestinal tract with a trig- tubulointerstitial nephritis is diagnosed simultaneously gered mucosal immune response are commonly asso- with IBD prior the beginning of any therapy, and often ciated with IgA nephropathy. Therefore, intestinal recovers after an effective IBD treatment . In this mucosal break and loss of surface integrity, during sense, it could be considered a real extraintestinal dis- bowel inflammation, may lead to an increased expos- order correlated with active IBD (fever, abdominal pain ure of antigens with consequent increase in circulat- and/or diarrhea) . Granulomatous interstitial neph- ing IgA immunoglobulins, that can subsequently be ritis, characterized by an inflammatory infiltrate contain- deposited in the glomeruli . ing at least one epithelioid histiocytes mixed with Angelettietal.BMCNephrology (2021) 22:146 Page5of6 lymphocytes with or without multinucleated giant cells, Declarations are reported in limited experiences and often associated Ethicsapprovalandconsenttoparticipate to recent or past exposure to aminosalicylates . Notapplicable. However, if granulomatous interstitial nephritis repre- sents a cell-mediated hypersensitivity reaction than a Consentforpublication true extraintestinal manifestation of IBD is not clarified. Writteninformedconsentforthepublicationofthiscasereportwas obtainedfromthepatient’slegalguardian. In our report, oral mesalazine was administered several years before the kidney failure and in the previous renal Competinginterests biopsy there were no signs of interstitial nephritis (Fig. Theauthorsdeclarethattheyhavenocompetinginterests. 1). Moreover, the chimeric anti-TNF IgG1 monoclonal Authordetails antibody infliximab was associated to renal complica- 1DivisionofNephrology,Dialysis,andTransplantation,IRCCSIstitutoGiannina tions such as glomerulonephritis or, in limited Gaslini,Genoa,Italy.2PediatricGastroenterologyUnit,IRCCSIstitutoGiannina Gaslini,Genoa,Italy.3DepartmentofPathology,IRCCSIstitutoGiannina cases, to the development of acute kidney injury due to Gaslini,Genoa,Italy.4LaboratoryofMolecularNephrology,IRCCSIstituto tubule-interstitial nephritis . Infliximab-induced GianninaGaslini,Genoa,Italy. tubule-interstitial nephritis may develop after long-term Received:18December2020Accepted:14April2021 administration and the recovery of kidney function was reported 2–3months after the withdrawal of inflixi- mab, inaccordancewith thehalf-lifeofthedrug. References It is fundamental distinguish drug-induced tubule- 1. CarvalhoRS,AbadomV,DilworthHP,ThompsonR,Oliva-HemkerM,Cuffari C.Indeterminatecolitis:asignificantsubgroupofpediatricIBD.Inflamm interstitial nephritis from
