REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, microbiota, gut, cells, intestinal, immune, children, respiratory, etal, gut microbiota, infections, development, immunol, tract, infection


neutrophil cytotoxicity (17), and C3 has been modificationstatusthroughhistonedeacetylaseinhibition (8,9) reportedtoinhibitmacrophagefunctionintheintestine(18)by or activating cells through the SCFA-G-protein receptor signal inducing the apoptosis of inflammatory dendritic cells (19), transduction pathway. These metabolites can promote immune thereby affecting immunity in the whole body and all major cellmaturationandmaintainandregulateintestinalhomeostasis organs. SCFA affects cells in various ways in different insitu,buttheyalsopassthroughintestinaltractintocapillaries microenvironments. Various organs and microenvironments and transfer to major organs in the circulation. SCFAs have can induce the differentiation of initial T cells into effector T criticalfunctionsinthesystemicactionofthegutmicrobiotaand cells or T regulatory cells (9, 20, 21). Regarding the effect of play important roles in defense against infection, mitigation of SCFAsonBcells,onereportindicatedthatitisassociatedwith autoimmune diseases, and anti-tumor therapy. In recent years, shaping intestinal homeostasis and maintaining IgA expression thedescriptionofthegutmicrobiotaanditsmetabolitesinvolved levelsinthebronchial-associatedmucosalimmunesystem(22). inrespiratorydiseaseshasgraduallybecomemoreelaborate.With Other recent findings suggest that SCFAs can protect against regard to the microbes themselves, microbial surface molecules arthritisbyskewingregulatoryBcelldifferentiation(23). like lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and lipoteichoic acids can be recognized by the immune system and induce corresponding humoralandcellularimmuneprocessesthatcanimprovethehost immunesystem.Incontrolledexperimentsonspecificpathogen- DYNAMIC DEVELOPMENT OF THE free (SPM) mice and bacteria-free mice, SPF mice exhibited PEDIATRIC INTESTINAL FLORA AND increased lymphatic tissue activity, more intestinal Peyer’s IMMUNE SYSTEM patches, and greater antibody secretion with less susceptibility tosystemicinflammation(10–12).Themucosaisthebody’sfirst Althoughthefetuswaspreviouslyconsideredtoexistinasterile lineofdefenseagainstexternalpathogens. uterineenvironment,theresultsofa16SribosomalDNA-based The intestinal microbiota is essential for maturation of and whole-genome shotgun metagenomic study based of 320 mucosal-associated immune tissues (MALT), which can induce subjectsshowthattheplacentaalsohasuniquemicrobialniche FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 2 November2021 | Volume12 | Article741233 Zhuetal. GutMicrobiotaandRT that consists of nonpathogenic commensal microbiota (24). A furthermore, the vitality of the thymus and bone marrow recentstudyfoundthatasmallnumberofprematurebabieshad decreases. Several inflammatory cell subsets including Th1 placentascontainingbacteriaofthesameoriginastheirmothers’ cells, CD4IL-2 cells, CD8IL-2 cells, and invariant NK T cells mouths(25).Thissuggeststhatevenattheembryonicstage,the are up-regulated with age. In contrast, Th2 and Th17 cells did fetus is already in contact and exchanging information with notshowage-relatedchanges. microorganisms.Inaretrospectiveanalysisofnewbornfeces,an upward trend appeared in the variety and amount of intestinal microbes(26).Theinfantgutmicrobiotashowsarapidincrease CROSSTALK BETWEEN GUT until1yearofage.From1to5yearsofage,thegrowthrateof flora diversity decreases and the composition becomes more MICROBIOTA AND CHILDHOOD stable, but their gut microbiota is lower in both number and RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS species compared to adults (27). HIT Chip microarray analysis indicated that the most striking differences between young In adult studies, the gut microbiota can directly regulate the children and adults are found in Actinobacteria, Bacilli, immune function of the lungs (43). In an experiment to detect Clostridium cluster IV, and Bacteroidetes phylum-like groups specific antibodies after influenza virus infection, neomycin- (28).Intermsofdietaryhabitsincludingfat,protein,sugar,and sensitive bacteria were shown to be related to the production fiberintake,nutritionalintakeininfantsandolderchildrencan
