REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, microbiota, gut, cells, intestinal, immune, children, respiratory, etal, gut microbiota, infections, development, immunol, tract, infection


an experiment to detect Clostridium cluster IV, and Bacteroidetes phylum-like groups specific antibodies after influenza virus infection, neomycin- (28).Intermsofdietaryhabitsincludingfat,protein,sugar,and sensitive bacteria were shown to be related to the production fiberintake,nutritionalintakeininfantsandolderchildrencan of immune responses in the lungs (44). Dysbiosis of intestinal lead to dramatic differences in the colonized taxa (29). Before microbescaninducemicetohavedifferentThcellresponsesto children reach puberty (7–12 years old), their gut microbiota influenzavirusinfection.Th1andTh2cellsaremorecontrolled exhibit different functions including vitamin synthesis, amino by the gut microbiota, with a weaker effect on Th17 cells (45). aciddegradation,andoxidativephosphorylation(30). FollicularhelperTcellsaredeficientingerm-freemice,leading Compared withadults, theshaping ofthepediatric immune toalackofBcellhumoralimmunityandimpairedIgA+plasma system is more dependent on education from the external cell function, which impacts the development and severity of environment. The gut microbiota provides a window into the colitis (46). Moreover, antibiotic use can dysregulate the immune maturation of newborns. After weaning from breast intestinal microbe composition, which triggers the overgrowth milk, the intestinal microflora expands and produces related of yeasts and more severe pulmonary allergic reactions (47). SCFAs, giving the baby a mucosal immune stimulation and Common respiratory tract infections in children have been promoting immune system maturation (31, 32). Bacteria are associated with the gut microbiota to some extent (48, 49). necessary for ILF development. The addition of solid foods First of all, children are exposed to the outside world while about 2 weeks after weaning can increase bacteria colonization theirmicrobialcolonygraduallygrows,andtheimmunesystem and is thus conducive to enhancing infant gut microbiota is constantly exposed to foreign antigens, which guide integrity(13). continuous immune system improvement. The gut microbiota Somehypothesessuggestthatchildren’simmunesystemsare shapes the immune system in children, providing constant notimperfect,orrather,offerthembetterprotectionatanearly reservesfortheinfectiousdiseases(50). age.Comparedtoadults,children’simmunesystemstendtobe According to the results of 16S rRNA gene sequencing, moreprotectivetoexternalinvasions,buttheyalsogeneratethe Lachnospira, Veillonella, Faecalibacterium, and Rothia were corresponding immune response once activated (33). The reduced in the intestines of children with asthma, and fecal pediatric immune system is in the process of development, levels of SCFAs and intestinal-liver metabolites were also from simple to complex and from tolerant to sensitive. Early disordered. These four bacteria are associated with disease adaptiveimmunityisnotwelldeveloped,andreliesmoreonthe progression, and researchers proposed that low abundance of PRRsofinnateimmunitytorecognizedanger-relatedmolecular these bacteria contributes to a higher risk of developing asthma patterns or pathogen-related molecular patterns (34, 35). before the age of3(51). Respiratory syncytialvirus(RSV)often Neonates have fewer neutrophils than adults, and the high causesseverelowerrespiratorytractinfectionsininfants,butits level of interleukin (IL)-6 in infants will diminish neutrophil pathogenesisremainsobscure.Somestudieshaveshownthatthe recruitmentandthusinflammation(36,37).Naturalkiller(NK) infant intestinal microbe niche is significantly related to RSV cells play a prominent role in controlling viral infections, but infectionseverity. The
