REVIEW
KEYWORDS: doi, microbiota, gut, cells, intestinal, immune, children, respiratory, etal, gut microbiota, infections, development, immunol, tract, infection


interleukin (IL)-6 in infants will diminish neutrophil pathogenesisremainsobscure.Somestudieshaveshownthatthe recruitmentandthusinflammation(36,37).Naturalkiller(NK) infant intestinal microbe niche is significantly related to RSV cells play a prominent role in controlling viral infections, but infectionseverity. The 16S rRNAgenesequencingresultsofthe studiesonhumanfetuseshaveshownthatNKcellsareextremely feces of infants infected with RSV showed higher abundance of sensitive to transforming growth factor-b inhibition, thereby S247, Clostridiales, Odoribacteraceae, Lactobacillaceae, and reducing cytotoxicity and interferon-g production (38, 39). As Actinomyces in moderately and severely infected patients forcellularandhumoralimmunity,infantTcellimmunityskews compared to normal infants. The Moraxellaceae flora decreases towards Th2 cells, with reduced Th1 cell differentiation and in children with severe RSV (52). The correlation between the immune responses (40). Due to less antigenic stimulation, intestinal microbe niche and respiratory diseases in infants and neonates have fewer memory T cells and memory B cells than youngchildrenisgraduallybeingrevealedforvarietyofdiseases. adults(41),andthereforearepronetomildresponsesfollowing Astudyofinfantbronchitis(53)revealedthatthefourdominant secondary stimulation. In a study of human volunteers of bacterialgroups in the intestinal tract of normal healthyinfants different ages (42), the proportions of CD4 RTE cells, were: Escherichia-dominant profile (30%), Bifidobacterium- transitional B cells, and CD8 RTE cells decreased with age; dominant profile (21%), Enterobacter/Veillonella-dominant FrontiersinImmunology | www.frontiersin.org 3 November2021 | Volume12 | Article741233 Zhuetal. GutMicrobiotaandRT profile(22%),andBacteroides-dominantprofile(28%).However, developing viral respiratoryinfections but with very low disease the predominant taxa in children with bronchitis changed to: symptoms (63). This may be due to the fact that children are Enterobacter/Veillonella-dominant profile (15%), and constantly undergoing gut microbiota remodeling and have a Bacteroides-dominant profile (44%). Researchers hypothesized higherimmunetolerance,whichhelpsthemresistthedevastating that the Bacteroides-dominant profile may put infants at a effectsofcytokinestormsonthebody. higher risk of developing bronchitis. This lays a theoretical foundationfor modifying the gut microbiota totreatorprevent bronchitis. Lei Li and colleagues (54) reported reduced gut GUT MICROBIOTA-BASED microbiota diversity in pediatric patients with recurrent respiratory tract infections. Conversely, patients were significantly TREATMENT FOR RESPIRATORY enriched in Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, INFECTIONS IN CHILDREN Actinobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, Tenericutes phylas and Enterococcus, Faecalibacterium, Bifidobacterium, and Eubacterium The gut microbiota provides protection against respiratory generas. However, Eubacterium, Faecalibacterium, and diseases by shaping the immune system. This role is even more Bifidobacterium decreased. Compared to their healthy pronouncedindiseasesforwhichinnateimmunityisinvolvedin peers, children with pulmonary tuberculosis had reduced the early stage (64). For example, commensal bacteria transfer intestinal microbe diversity with enrichment of the pro- therapy can induce the production of neonatal intestinal innate inflammatory bacteria Prevotella and the opportunistic pathogen lymphoid cells (ILCs), thereby boosting plasma granulocyte Enterococcus, and decreases in the probiotics Ruminococcaceae, colony-stimulating factor levels and neutrophil numbers and Bifidobacteriaceae, and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (55).
