Chest pain
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, chest pain, cardiac, cause, patients, angina, disease, diagnosis, acs, pulmonary, coronary, pulmonary embolism, embolism, symptoms


Prognosis For suspected cardiac causes of chest pain, see the separate Cardiac-type chest pain presenting in primary care article. There is an urgent need to diagnose the cause of any patient presenting with chest pain to ensure that serious and life-threatening conditions are not missed. Urgent hospital referral is indicated if there is any indication of a severe underlying disorder or of the patient being acutely unwell. 1/9 When a patient telephones, acutely unwell with chest pain, arrange a 999/112/911 ambulance in advance of (or instead of) visiting, as any delay in starting appropriate treatment has an adverse effect on prognosis. How common is chest pain? (Epidemiology) Epidemiological studies of chest pain, in particular the risk of pain being cardiac in nature, vary according to setting. Community-based studies with their undifferenti- ated populations see high rates of non-cardiac chest pain, whilst studies based in A&E departments have much higher proportions of cardiac chest pain, as patients are already self-selected based on the severity of symptoms, or triaged via contact with their GP, emergency services (999/112/911) or the NHS 111 Service. Chest pain is a common symptom, accounting for about 1% of GP visits.[1] Around 40% of patients are referred to secondary care and musculoskeletal pain is both the most frequent working (26.1%) and final diagnosis (33.1%).[2] Potentially life-threatening final diagnosis accounts for 8.4% of all chest pain cases. European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines report that among unselected patients presenting with acute chest pain to the emergency department, dis- ease prevalence can be expected to be the following: 5-10% ST-segment eleva- tion myocardial infarction (STEMI), 15-20% non-STEMI (NSTEMI), 10% unstable angina, 15% other cardiac conditions, and 50% non-cardiac diseases.[3] Combined hospital and primary care data produced an incidence of cardiac chest pain of 6.5 per 1,000 general population per annum. Population-based questionnaire studies show about 20% of adults reporting chest pain over the course of a year. This reflects the chronicity of coronary heart disease but also low consultation rates, particularly in those without a diagnosis of cardiac disease. The incidence of chest pain consultations increases with age and is more com- mon for men. Differential diagnosis Cardiac: 2/9 Ischaemic: stable angina, acute coronary syndrome (ACS), coronary va- sospasm (Prinzmetal's angina), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, aortic stenosis. Non-ischaemic: arrhythmias, aortic dissection, mitral valve disease, peri- carditis. Respiratory: pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism, pneumonia, pleurisy, lung cancer. Musculoskeletal: costochondritis, Tietze's syndrome, trauma, rib pain (including
