Chest pain
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, chest pain, cardiac, cause, patients, angina, disease, diagnosis, acs, pulmonary, coronary, pulmonary embolism, embolism, symptoms


angina), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, aortic stenosis. Non-ischaemic: arrhythmias, aortic dissection, mitral valve disease, peri- carditis. Respiratory: pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism, pneumonia, pleurisy, lung cancer. Musculoskeletal: costochondritis, Tietze's syndrome, trauma, rib pain (including fracture, bone metastases, osteoporosis), radicular pain, nonspecific muscu- loskeletal pain (eg, fibromyalgia). Breast disease. Gastrointestinal: GORD, oesophageal rupture, oesophageal spasm, peptic ulcer disease, cholecystitis, pancreatitis, gastritis. Skin: herpes zoster infection. Psychological - eg, anxiety, depression, panic disorder. Others: sickle cell crisis, diabetic mononeuritis, tabes dorsalis. Assessment The aim is to exclude a life-threatening cause, which needs immediate treatment, from other causes of chest pain. Diagnosis of chest pain is difficult but the history of- ten gives an indication of the underlying cause. As the patient walks into the consultation room or, when listening carefully over the telephone, discern general appearance/status, including any confusion, anxiety, shortness of breath, pain, distress, whether pale or sweaty, and any vomiting. If there is any suspicion of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or other serious cause, or any concern regarding the patient's general well-being, arrange urgent hospital assess- ment and admission. History Pain: site, radiation, nature (type, frequency, severity), onset, duration, variation with time, modifying factors (eg, exercise, rest, eating, breathing or medication) and any previous episodes. 3/9 Visceral chest pain: Originates from deep thoracic structures (heart, blood vessels, oesophagus) and is often (but not always) described as dull, heavy or aching in nature. It is transmitted via the autonomic system but may be referred via an adja- cent somatic nerve - eg, referred cardiac pain felt in the jaw or left arm. Somatic chest pain arises in the chest wall, pericardium and parietal pleura and is characteristically sharp in nature and more easily localised (usually dermatomal). Associated symptoms may be useful in determining the underlying cause but may be nonspecific (eg, breathlessness may be associated with a cardiac, mus- culoskeletal, respiratory or psychological cause): Anorexia, nausea, vomiting: may suggest a gastrointestinal or cardiac cause of chest pain, depending on the individual context. Breathlessness, cough, haemoptysis: may indicate a respiratory or a cardiac cause of chest pain. Excessive sweating: may be associated with shock. Palpitations, dizziness, syncope: increase the likelihood of a cardiac cause and imply the need for hospital admission - but palpitations may be associ- ated with anxiety. Consider the presence of any risk factors for coronary heart disease. Refer to any previous ECGs for comparison and any previous cardiac investiga- tions (where available).
