Chest pain
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, chest pain, cardiac, cause, patients, angina, disease, diagnosis, acs, pulmonary, coronary, pulmonary embolism, embolism, symptoms


associ- ated with anxiety. Consider the presence of any risk factors for coronary heart disease. Refer to any previous ECGs for comparison and any previous cardiac investiga- tions (where available). Exclude thrombolysis contra-indications if ACS is suspected. Examination Vital signs, including blood pressure measurement in both arms. Detailed cardiovascular and respiratory examinations, looking particularly for signs of cardiac failure or dysrhythmia. Chest wall, looking for localised tenderness and evidence of trauma. 4/9 Also examine the abdomen (possible gastrointestinal cause), legs (oedema or possible deep vein thrombosis) and skin (rash). The Pulmonary Embolism Rule-out Criteria (PERC) may be used to rule out a pulmonary embolism on clinical grounds in selected low-risk patients.type: embedded-entry-inline id: 6UOQftueJOgSfJ9fQ4tAOv In patients with a low pre-test probability of pulmonary embolism (<15%), meeting all of the following criteria allows the diagnosis to be ruled out: Age < 50. Heart rate < 100bpm. Oxygen saturations on room air > 94%. No unilateral leg swelling. No haemoptysis. No recent surgery or trauma (within the last 4 weeks). No prior pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis diagnosis. No oral contraceptive, hormone replacement, or oestrogenic hormone use. Investigations Within primary care, non-acute chest pain: FBC (to exclude anaemia). Renal function tests and electrolytes. TFTs. CRP. Fasting lipids and glucose. 5/9 Resting ECG. Note: a resting ECG is normal in over 90% of patients with recent symptoms of angina. If an urgent ECG is considered necessary on clinical grounds, admission to hospital is usually required. Additional tests if a non-cardiac cause is suspected - eg, CXR, LFTs and amylase, abdominal ultrasound. Referral to a rapid access chest pain clinic is now usual for further assessment and review, if stable angina is suspected. With acute chest pain, in a hospital setting: Blood tests: FBC, renal function tests, electrolytes, LFTs, amylase, coagulation screen, serial cardiac enzymes (troponin I or T). D-dimer testing may be used to help rule out a pulmonary embolism in patients where it is a diagnostic possibili- ty, but there is a low pre-test probability. Serial ECG. CXR. Second-line investigations when indicated include echocardiography, angiog- raphy, exercise testing, myocardial perfusion scan, CT/MRI scan, upper gastroin- testinal endoscopy, and lung ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scan. Cardiac chest pain Cardiac pain is often heavy, pressing and tight. Symptoms that may indicate ACS include: Pain in the chest and/or other areas (eg, the arms, back or jaw) lasting longer than 15 minutes. Chest pain with nausea
