Chest pain
KEYWORDS: pain, chest, chest pain, cardiac, cause, patients, angina, disease, diagnosis, acs, pulmonary, coronary, pulmonary embolism, embolism, symptoms


and tight. Symptoms that may indicate ACS include: Pain in the chest and/or other areas (eg, the arms, back or jaw) lasting longer than 15 minutes. Chest pain with nausea and vomiting, marked sweating and/or breathless- ness, or haemodynamic instability. New-onset chest pain, or abrupt deterioration in stable angina, with recur- rent pain occurring frequently with little or no exertion and often lasting longer than 15 minutes. Contradictory findings are reported about symptoms that could predict the di- agnosis or severity of ACS. European guidelines declare that severe or ongoing chest pain lasting 20 minutes or more is a symptom indicating high risk of ACS, 6/9 but ACS pain can be intermittent and appear to 'settle', providing false reassur- ance.[3] Response to nitrates or antacids does not prove the diagnosis, as angina and GORD may appear to be relieved by both. Non-cardiac chest pain Consider non-cardiac causes of chest pain, including recent trauma, past med- ical history and current medications. Pleuritic pain (pain is aggravated during inspiration and when coughing) may indicate a respiratory or musculoskeletal cause of pain. Musculoskeletal pain is usually associated with tenderness of the chest wall. Gastrointestinal chest pain may be very difficult to distinguish from cardiac chest pain, especially in patients with oesophageal spasm. Screen for panic disorder: A positive screen ('yes' to either question) is highly sensitive for panic disor- der but should not preclude cardiac testing in patients with risk factors: 'In the past six months, did you ever have a spell or an attack when you suddenly felt anxious or frightened or very uneasy?' 'In the past six months, did you ever have a spell or an attack when for no apparent reason your heart suddenly began to race, you felt faint or you couldn't catch your breath?' Management of chest pain Management will be dependent on diagnosis. See the separate articles on Stable angina, Acute coronary syndrome and Acute myocardial infarction. Psychological treatment may be helpful with some patients. Prognosis There is a 3% increased mortality rate in the year following consulting a GP re- garding the onset of chest pain compared with a control group with no chest pain, the excess being primarily due to cardiovascular disease. 7/9 Once a cardiac cause for chest pain is excluded, further investigation is often curtailed and many patients continue to experience undiagnosed chest pain, which carries significant psychological morbidity.
