Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


and haemag- tion associated to high morbidity and mortality rates in glutinin (JRC-HA) genes of A(H5N1) 2.3.4.4b viruses. poultry . Since the early 2000s, HPAI A(H5Nx) viruses After in silico assessment of inclusivity and exclusiv- of the goose/Guangdong lineage (gs/GD) have not only ity, we evaluated the assays’ performance using RNAs affected domestic poultry, but also wild birds, which from influenza A(H5N1) viruses isolated from infected have facilitated the intercontinental spread of that line- animal specimens, in an inter-laboratory exercise with age through migratory routes. This contributed to the diverse target and non-target isolates, and on waste- constant evolution of these viruses through re-assort- water samples either negative or spiked with A(H5N1) ment, resulting in the emergence of various genetic 2.3.4.4b RNA. clades and subclades . Globally, HPAI A(H5Nx) Results: The JRC-MP assay detects influenza A viruses viruses have caused the death of more than 633 million of different subtypes and origins, while the JRC-HA poultry, including both direct mortality from infection assay specifically detects HPAI A(H5Nx) 2.3.4.4b and indirect losses due to culling, and a sharp increase strains. The assays demonstrated high sensitivity, in the number of affected wild birds and mammalian showing consistent results in the inter-laboratory species, highlighting their impact on the food industry exercise. They also detected target RNAs in wastewa- and biodiversity preservation . ter samples with high accuracy, despite background components, supporting potential use in wastewater Since March 2024, numerous cases of HPAI caused by surveillance programmes. A(H5N1) virus of clade 2.3.4.4b have been reported in zoonotic avian influenza surveillance, we propose the than 1,050 confirmed cases across 17 states as of June www.eurosurveillance.org 1 KEY PUBLIC HEALTH MESSAGE What did you want to address in this study and why? We wanted to address the growing concern of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) virus transmission between animals and from animals to humans. To provide effective tools to quickly detect and quantify recent avian influenza HPAI A(H5N1) 2.3.4.4b in biological and environmental samples, including those detected in milk cows in the United States, we developed two digital RT-PCR. What have we learnt from this study? Our digital RT-PCR assays can distinguish the HPAI A(H5N1) 2.3.4.4b virus from other A viruses, including seasonal human influenza, in a single test. These assays also work well on wastewater samples, making them suitable for disease surveillance programmes, including wastewater surveillance. This means we now have a reliable tool
