Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


in a single test. These assays also work well on wastewater samples, making them suitable for disease surveillance programmes, including wastewater surveillance. This means we now have a reliable tool to track the spread of the virus in animal and human populations, and at their interface. What are the implications of your findings for public health? A(H5Nx) 2.3.4.4b viruses. This allows for swift implementation of control measures to prevent virus spread and protect public health. Our assays can help mitigate the risk of avian influenza transmission between animals and from animals to humans, while mitigating the economic burden associated to this infection. 2025. The virus has also spilled back to birds and trans- Wastewater surveillance can indeed provide rapid and mitted to other mammalian species, including domestic reliable information on virus circulation in a given area cats. Since April 2024, there have been 70 confirmed or period regardless of access to medical testing . human cases in the US, mostly related to exposure to The real-time reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) assay sick or infected dairy cows and a smaller number linked is the first-choice laboratory test for fast and accurate to infected poultry . While most human cases have detection and quantification of influenza virus , been mild, with symptoms limited to conjunctivitis and and a number of H5 subtyping/pathotyping assays are able to genotype D1.1, were reported: a person in their 14]. However, their application to wastewater requires 60s with fatal outcome, and a teenage patient who optimisation owing to the complexity of the sample recovered after hospitalisation [5-7]. matrix composition that can affect test performance. The digital RT-PCR (dRT-PCR) technology offers greater Although human-to-human transmission has not been resilience to PCR inhibitors and allows viral genome reported, the continuous evolution and adaptation of quantification with high sensitivity, without the need HPAI A(H5Nx) 2.3.4.4b strains and their potential for for calibration curves . Accurate quantification of genetic re-assortment with seasonal or other mamma- viral genome copies allows also estimating the number lian influenza viruses is a concern for public health . of infected individuals in an area and reconstructing Recent studies have shown that a single mutation in infection trends in a population. Application of dRT- the HA protein (i.e. Q226L substitution) was sufficient PCR to wastewater surveillance in the US has detected to change the receptor-binding preference from avian- H5 viral RNA in several states, most probably intro-
