Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


(i.e. Q226L substitution) was sufficient PCR to wastewater surveillance in the US has detected to change the receptor-binding preference from avian- H5 viral RNA in several states, most probably intro- type to human-type receptors, leading to increased risk duced through industrial discharge of animal waste for human-to-human transmission . Further genetic from poultry farming and/or milk by-products [16-18]. analysis of the viruses from the two patients with However, the applied protocols broadly react with severe disease revealed additional mutations in the H5 viruses and do not distinguish A(H5Nx) 2.3.4.4b HA protein associated with increased ability to bind to viruses . human cells present in the upper airways , suggest- ing that the virus may rapidly acquire new changes in Building on our previous experience with in silico its viral genome that could facilitate human infection design and validation of dRT-PCR assays for severe . Continued monitoring and surveillance of emerg- acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS- ing mutations are important, as is the development of CoV-2) , this study aimed to develop a spe- effective tools to accelerate diagnosis. This includes cific dRT-PCR assay to monitor the widespread and surveillance in livestock, wild, feral and companion cross-species circulation of A(H5N1) clade 2.3.4.4b, animals, and exposed humans, as well as environmen- while preparing for potential shifts in the epidemiologi- tal monitoring in both natural and urban contexts . cal landscape in Europe. 2 www.eurosurveillance.org Methods True positives and false negatives were evaluated by simulating PCR on the initial set of 9,700 HPAI A(H5N1) In silico assay design RNA sequences. For the true positives, in silico PCR The assays were designed by applying a bioinformatics was run with stringent conditions i.e. allowing maxi- workflow previously established for SARS-CoV-2 , mum one mismatch in the entire oligonucleotide set which was specifically adapted to target ultra-con- upstream the last five bases of the primer 3’-end served elements within the HA and M genetic segments (--primer-clamp = 5). The number of putative false neg- of HPAI A(H5N1) viruses of clade 2.3.4.4b encoding for atives was determined by counting sequences which the haemagglutinin (HA) protein and matrix proteins had at least one mutation in the last five bases of the (MP) M1 and M2, respectively. The workflow imple- primer 3’-end regions . ments, for each of the two segments, the procedure described below: To further assess in silico the assays’ specificity for avian influenza A viruses
