Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


workflow imple- primer 3’-end regions . ments, for each of the two segments, the procedure described below: To further assess in silico the assays’ specificity for avian influenza A viruses circulating worldwide in the 1. We selected sequences annotated as ‘complete last year, we performed PCR simulation against all segment’ of HPAI A(H5N1) viruses of clade 2.3.4.4b, avian influenza A virus sequences (encompassing all deposited in GISAID EpiFlu database from 1 subtypes, both high- and low-pathogenicity strains that January 2022 until 30 May 2024, resulting in 12,783 had been detected, irrespective of their host species of submitted isolates from animals worldwide. Of origin) deposited in GISAID from January to December these, we considered only isolates in which both 2024 (n = 35,838), i.e. a set of sequences which pro- the HA and M segments were marked as fully vided a comprehensive picture of current influenza A sequenced, for a total of 9,700 complete sequences viruses. To verify that the assays would remain effec- for each segment. tive in detecting emerging highly pathogenic clades, 2. Sequences were extracted and subjected to clus- we repeated the analysis using a dataset of HPAI and tering analysis by using cd-hit tool as described in low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) A(H5Nx) isolates, to identify groups of closely related sequences that had recently circulated worldwide and were col- applying an identity threshold of 0.98. lected in GISAID between 1 January 2024 and 16 June 3. Sequences of the largest identified cluster (com- 2025. These include 9,253 and 73 isolates labelled as posed of 6,214 and 6,762 sequences for the HA and HPAI and LPAI, respectively. the M segment, respectively) were aligned by using the mafft tool as described in . The presence of Optimisation of JRC-MP and JRC-HA assays sequences related to the 2024 US outbreak viruses Optimisation of the JRC-MP and JRC-HA assays was car- was confirmed in the largest cluster to ensure the ried out on a QX600 Droplet Digital (dd) PCR System procedure’s applicability for monitoring this out- (Bio-Rad) employing a one-step ddRT-PCR Advanced break of concern. Kit for Probes (Bio-Rad). The primers and probes were 4. We used the alignment for the generation of a con- used at the concentration of 900 and 400 nM, respec- sensus sequence with the same threshold reported tively. The JRC-MP and JRC-HA assays were performed in . in a simplex format unless otherwise specified. A 5.5
