Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


and 400 nM, respec- sensus sequence with the same threshold reported tively. The JRC-MP and JRC-HA assays were performed in . in a simplex format unless otherwise specified. A 5.5 5. We used the consensus sequence to design sets of µL RNA sample was then added to 16.5 µL of reaction primers and probes. The initial selections recom- mix. Droplet generation of PCR reaction mixtures was mended by the primer design tool Primer3Plus performed using AutoDG (Bio-Rad) with DG32 cartridge were adopted as the primary choices for the assays’ (Bio-Rad). The HPAI A(H5N1) RNA, extracted from A/ optimisation. Vulpes Vulpes/Belgium/04016_0001/2023 isolate was used for the annealing temperature optimisation and In silico analysis LOD calculation by digital droplet RT-PCR (ddRT-PCR). Cross-reactivity was assessed by aligning the prim- Background details on this isolate are appended in ers and probe sequences against publicly available Supplementary Table S1. sequences from the entire NCBI database (with a focus on the metazoa kingdom, taxid:33208) using the blastn To optimise the annealing temperature, we ran a tem- tool with very relaxed parameters (i.e. blastn with word perature gradient from 50 to 62 °C in eight steps using size of seven bases and no low-complexity filtering). the C1000 Touch Thermal Cycler (Bio-Rad). The optimal annealing temperature (60 °C) was selected based on All in silico PCR simulations were run with the ther- separation of positive and negative droplet clusters as monucleotideBLAST software version 2.17 as previ- well as minimal rain (ambiguous droplets). Positive and ously outlined . Unless otherwise specified, we negative partitions were quantified with the QX600 used default parameters, with the following specifica- droplet reader and the QXManager (v. 2.2.0.71) using tions: minimum primer Tm (-e) = 40, minimum probe an average droplet volume of 0.797 nL, as determined Tm (-E) = 40, maximum number of allowed mismatches by microscopy. Reactions with fewer than 10,000 drop- (--max-mismatch) = 5 and maximum amplicon length lets were discarded from downstream analysis. (-l) = 200. Each simulation and its subsequent assess- ment were conducted independently. To assess the analytical sensitivity of the assays expressed as limit of detection (LOD), the RNA sample www.eurosurveillance.org 3 was serially diluted with Ambion carrier RNA (10 ng/µL) HPAI strains of clade 2.3.4.4b at various concentra- to obtain eight concentrations ranging from 20 to 0.2 tions to operate within a wider dynamic range that sim- copies per µL. Each dilution was measured 10 times.
