Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


various concentra- to obtain eight concentrations ranging from 20 to 0.2 tions to operate within a wider dynamic range that sim- copies per µL. Each dilution was measured 10 times. ulated diverse contamination scenarios. The panel also The LOD for both assays was calculated by applying an included three AIV-negative allantoic fluids harvested exponential model according to the equation: Y = Y0 + (Y from uninfected SPF embryonated chicken eggs and 1 − Y0) × (1 − exp(−K × x)) using a threshold of 95% . diluted in the same buffer. We evaluated the JRC-HA and JRC-MP assays by Double-anonymised testing was conducted at the RT-dPCR analysis of influenza A and influenza B virus European Commission’s Joint Research Centre (JRC) RNAs, and compared their performance with the assay and at the IZSVe laboratories. The RNA extraction was established by the US Centers for Disease Control and performed using the QIAamp Viral RNA kit (QiAGEN). Prevention (CDC) and published in 2022 that tar- Two parallel RNA extractions were carried out for each gets the matrix gene segment of the influenza A virus sample, and the recovered RNA was pooled, yielding a and the non-structural gene segment of the influenza total volume of 120 µL. The JRC-MP and JRC-HA assays B virus. As templates, we used the Twist Respiratory were performed as simplex reactions in triplicate in Virus Controls (Twist Bioscience), specifically the each laboratory. The identity of the samples was dis- Synthetic Influenza H1N1 (2009) RNA Control for influ- closed after the tests were completed. enza A virus and the Synthetic Influenza B RNA Control for influenza B virus, as previously described . Digital RT-PCR analyses on wastewater samples Ultimately, to assess the functionality of the newly We evaluated the two assays on a panel of wastewa- developed primers and probes in a reverse transcrip- ter samples, including 10 SARS-CoV-2-positive sam- tion-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) format, amplification ples, eight samples positive for human influenza A or reactions were carried out using a TaqPathTM 1 Step B, and seven samples negative for the three viruses RT-qPCR Master Mix CG (Applied Biosystems) on a as assessed by the Istituto Superiore di Sanità in the Quantstudio 7 Flex instrument (Applied Biosystems). context of the Italian environmental surveillance activi- Oligonucleotide concentrations were the same as for ties in urban wastewater. These wastewater samples the ddPCR assays. were collected across Italy from November 2022 to April 2024.
