Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


environmental surveillance activi- Oligonucleotide concentrations were the same as for ties in urban wastewater. These wastewater samples the ddPCR assays. were collected across Italy from November 2022 to April 2024. The sampling methodology, viral concen- Assay validation tration and nucleic acid isolation have been previously We first evaluated the two assays using the RNA described . This panel was intended to demon- extracted from five isolates from different animal spe- strate the applicability of the JRC-MP and JRC-HA meth- cies positive for HPAI A(H5N1), provided by the National ods on wastewater samples. Reference Laboratory for Avian Influenza hosted by Scientific Direction of Animal Infectious Diseases The RNA extracted from wastewater samples was ana- at Sciensano. For details on the isolates we refer to lysed with the QIAcuity Four 5-plex digital PCR system Supplementary Table S1. The five samples were tested (Qiagen) using the 4x One-Step Advanced Probe Master using the JRC-HA and JRC-MP assays in both simplex Mix (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer’s instruc- and duplex formats for comparison. tions. Primers were used at 900 nM and probes at 200 nM (JRC-HA) or 100 nM (JRC-MP). For these samples, the We then assessed reproducibility of the methods in an JRC-HA and JRC-MP assays were run in a duplex format, inter-laboratory comparison study using a panel of 40 in a single replicate due to limited availability of RNA samples provided by the EU and National Reference sample. The same analysis was repeated after spiking Laboratory for Avian Influenza and Newcastle Disease in influenza A(H5N1) 2.3.4.4b RNA into the samples (ca hosted by the Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale delle 400 copies per reaction). The wastewater samples were Venezie (IZSVe). A list of these samples is appended in also tested with the JRC-CoV-UCE.2 assay, specific for Supplementary Table S2. All viruses were grown in the SARS-CoV-2 and the CDC human Influenza A and B allantoic cavity of specific pathogen-free (SPF) embry- duplex assay . Thermal cycling was conducted with onated chicken eggs and were originally isolated from an annealing temperature of 60 °C (JRC assays) or 55 °C different bird species, except for two isolates from (CDC assay). We used 24-well nanoplates with 26,000 swine. Samples of avian origin consisted of 26 A(H5N1) partitions. Partitions were imaged with 500 ms expo- 2.3.4.4b isolates, three A(H5Nx) LPAI strains and eight sure time and a gain setting of 6 for both the green A(non-H5) strains. Isolates
