Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


16 June 2025 and labelled as HPAI (including clade designation) and LPAI, respectively. www.eurosurveillance.org 5 subtypes. The JRC-HA assay showed high specific- The CDC assay specific for human seasonal influenza ity for HA segments from HPAI A(H5Nx) isolates of A and B viruses was used for comparison . The clade 2.3.4.4b, detecting 98.3% and 98.9% of A(H5N1) JRC-HA assay exhibited high specificity, with no detect- and A(H5N5) sequences, respectively, with only 44 able signal from seasonal influenza A and B RNAs. In sequences failing detection (Figure 1A). In contrast, no contrast, the JRC-MP assay cross-reacted with human in silico amplification was observed for HA segments influenza A virus, although its sensitivity was approxi- from other subtypes, even under relaxed conditions mately sixfold lower than that of the reference CDC (up to 10 mismatches allowed across the oligonucleo- assay (Figure 2C). Notably, the CDC assay for seasonal tides’ hybridisation region). The JRC-MP assay showed influenza virus detected HPAI A(H5N1) RNA with a sen- a lack of specificity, as it was predicted to amplify sitivity similar to the JRC-MP and JRC-HA assays. M sequences from multiple subtypes of influenza A viruses (Figure 1A). This is consistent with the high Analysis on avian influenza A isolates conservation of the M segment among different influ- To confirm the performance of the JRC-HA and JRC-MP enza A subtypes. assays, we selected four additional HPAI A(H5N1)- positive isolates. The characteristics of these samples To further evaluate the assays’ ability to detect currently are described in Supplementary Table S1. The primer circulating high pathogenicity clades, we repeated the and probe sequences of the JRC-HA and JRC-MP assays in silico PCR simulations using a dataset including all showed 100% identity to their respective binding sites worldwide HPAI (n = 9,253) and LPAI (n = 73) A(H5Nx) on the viral genome prototype, as defined by align- sequence isolates collected between 1 January 2024 to ment of the first 21 sequence segments of the 2024 US 16 June 2025 and deposited in GISAID. While the LPAI outbreak. The same target regions were also present sequences were detected only by the JRC-MP and not in the isolates we selected for the analysis (Figure 3A). by the JRC-HA assay, the HPAI sequences were recog- nised by both the JRC-MP and JRC-HA assays with an in The JRC-HA and JRC-MP assays were performed sin- silico detection rate of 100% and 98.9%, respectively gly
