Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


samples C. Human influenza A- and B-positive wastewater samples + Flu A (5 samples) + Flu B (3 samples) Lµ/rebmunypocANR HA MP [DATE] 2 [DATE] 2 [DATE] 2 /04/20 3 /04/2 23 /02/2024 [DATE] [DATE] 4 /04/20 4 /04/2024 Wastewater samples lµ/rebmunypocANR HA 10 MP 8 UCE2 lµ/rebmunypocANR JRC-HA and JRC-MP assays were run in parallel with the discouraged us from using the N1 as a diagnostic tar- CDC duplex assay specific for seasonal influenza A and get . B viruses . The CDC assay confirmed the presence of influenza viruses RNA influenza-positive samples as In contrast, the JRC-MP assay provides generic detec- expected, whereas both the JRC-MP and JRC-HA assays tion of influenza A viruses. Indeed, although oligonu- yielded negative results (Figure 5C). All assays correctly cleotides were designed using a dataset enriched for identified the negative samples as negative (data not HPAI A(H5Nx) clade 2.3.4.4b sequences, the targeted shown). These results confirm the high specificity of ultra-conserved elements in the M gene are shared the JRC-HA assay that did not show any cross-reaction across different subtypes of HPAI and LPAI. Our panel with seasonal influenza viruses. The negative results validation showed that the assay has a broad detec- obtained with the JRC-MP assay were consistent with tion capability for various influenza A viruses of avian the relatively low levels of human influenza virus in the and swine origin. In silico PCR analysis, performed wastewater samples and the expected lower sensitivity under stringent conditions, further supported the of this assay compared with the CDC assay, as previ- assay’s inclusivity, predicting that it could amplify ously observed with synthetic RNAs (Figure 2C). This most sequences across different subtypes. However, reduced sensitivity can be attributed to the presence an exception were LPAI A(H9N2) sequences, which of two mismatches in the annealing region of 3’-end the JRC-MP assay may not amplify optimally due to of the forward primer, which may lead to suboptimal mismatches between the 3’-end of primers and the annealing to the target sequence within the M gene of targeted sequences. The potential for re-assortment human influenza A. between different influenza subtypes, including H5N1 and H9N2, highlights the importance of continued Discussion surveillance, informing assay updates that ensure The US is experiencing an outbreak of HPAI A(H5N1) the detection of emerging viruses. Interestingly, the clade 2.3.4.4b in dairy cows with incidental spill-over JRC-MP assay exhibited reduced sensitivity compared to other
