Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


is experiencing an outbreak of HPAI A(H5N1) the detection of emerging viruses. Interestingly, the clade 2.3.4.4b in dairy cows with incidental spill-over JRC-MP assay exhibited reduced sensitivity compared to other species including humans, sparking concerns with the qRT-PCR assay recommended by the CDC about potential human-to-human transmission and when applied to human influenza A synthetic RNA or evolution and closely monitoring its spread are critical, A. This reduced sensitivity is a deliberate design fea- as timely interventions can mitigate the risk of larger ture, as the JRC-MP assay was intentionally developed wastewater surveillance has been undertaken in the cross-reactivity for human subtypes. Combined with US to assess trends in AIV distribution , and retail the JRC-HA protocol, this multi-assay strategy enables milk and dairy products are being tested . Such accurate differentiation between avian HPAI A(H5Nx) screening relies on a broadly reactive H5 assay devel- 2.3.4.4b viruses and human influenza viruses, filling oped by Wolfe et al. . While this method is valuable a surveillance gap by distinguishing avian from human for initial assessment, the potential of cross-reaction signals in wastewater. with LPAI H5 strains due to the use of degenerated oli- gonucleotide requires downstream characterisation to It is important to note that while the JRC-MP and JRC-HA ultimately confirm the presence of H5 2.3.4.4b genome. assays were validated in vitro using viral RNA extracted from different animals’ isolates, they were not evalu- Building on a successful approach used for SARS-CoV-2 ated on clinical samples from US cattle or from felines , and grounding in the current epidemiological which have recently emerged as a relevant species context that requires diagnostic precision and sensi- highly susceptible to HPAI, nor did we evaluate them tivity, we developed two digital RT-PCR-based assays on milk samples. However, since the regions recog- to detect HPAI A(H5Nx) viruses of clade 2.3.4.4b in nised by the oligonucleotide are identical between the biological and environmental samples. By leveraging American prototype sequences of clade 2.3.4.4b and ultra-conserved regions of the viral haemagglutinin the RNA samples used in this study, we can assume gene segment, our JRC-HA assay demonstrates the that the assays would perform efficiently both in ability to specifically detect the designated clade and the American and the European context. We further offers a stable and reliable target for molecular diag- assessed in silico the applicability of the JRC-MP and nostics, with no cross-reactivity with LPAI subtypes. JRC-HA
