Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


European context. We further offers a stable and reliable target for molecular diag- assessed in silico the applicability of the JRC-MP and nostics, with no cross-reactivity with LPAI subtypes. JRC-HA protocols against clades other than 2.3.4.4b This is an agreement with other studies that have cho- (i.e. 2.3.2.1a, 2.3.2.1c, 2.3.4.4h from Asia). A PCR simu- sen the HA gene as a target for their assays . As the lation with more permissive conditions indicated that N1 NA gene is a defining feature of these viruses, an both assays can detect any of the currently circulat- additional assay developed for this target would pro- ing clades, although we might expect slightly lower vide more solid results in the current epidemiological sensitivity with the JRC-HA assay due to the presence framework. However, it must be noted that H5 viruses of a higher number of mismatches in the annealing of clade 2.3.4.4b have shown a remarkable propensity region. However, should the epidemiological situation to re-assort that resulted in a plethora of subtypes and change, our bioinformatics and laboratory pipeline genotypes . As a consequence, the unpredictability allows updating and tuning the assay within 2 weeks, of future evolutionary trajectories of 2.3.4.4b viruses www.eurosurveillance.org 11 Veneri: Writing – review & editing, Resources. Giuseppina so that up-to-date diagnostic methods can be readily La Rosa: Writing – review & editing, Resources. Elisabetta available. Suffredini: Writing – review & editing, Resources. Maddalena Querci: Writing – review & editing. Valentina Panzarin: While the assays are considerably more cost-effective Writing – review & editing, Conceptualisation, Methodology, Data curation, Validation. Antonio Marchini: Writing – origi- than sequencing and we showed interchangeability nal draft, Conceptualisation, Data curation, Investigation, between the dRT-PCR and standard qRT-PCR formats, Methodology, Supervision, Validation. their implementation as dRT-PCR requires investment in dedicated equipment or training for laboratories without existing infrastructure. However, their imple- Conflict of interest mentation in three different laboratories during the None declared. validation process support that the assays are robust and can easily be deployed to other facilities. Funding statement Lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic emphasise the importance of rapid data sharing, including precise This project received partial financial support from DG HERA grant and from the European Union within the framework metadata such as date and location, to track fast- of the activities foreseen by the European Union Reference spreading pathogens. Gaps in metadata, as seen in Laboratory for Avian Influenza and Newcastle
