Research
KEYWORDS: influenza, assays, samples, assay, jrc-mp, jrc-ha, hpai, viruses, rna, sequences, avian, wastewater, clade, pcr, human


as date and location, to track fast- of the activities foreseen by the European Union Reference spreading pathogens. Gaps in metadata, as seen in Laboratory for Avian Influenza and Newcastle Disease (EURL avian influenza spillovers, hinder tracing and analy- for AI/ND). ses. We faced challenges comparing data and ensuring quality due to missing standards, including reference sequences and the numbering of coding and amino Ethical statement acid sequences. Improved alignment with One Health Ethical approval was not required because the study did not strategies is needed. Harmonised sharing of assays, involve human participants, or the use of sensitive personal genomic data and workflows, as recommended by data. the European Food Safety Authority and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, is essential to coordinated surveillance and prevention of further Use of artificial intelligence tools spillover events. None declared. Conclusions The development of novel assays or detecting HPAI Acknowledgements A(H5N1)/Nx) viruses of clade 2.3.4.4b represents a We thank Philippe Corbisier for his support during the initial step forward in monitoring the potential spread of phases of this project and Veronique Vanherck for her as- these viruses. These assays are designed to be highly sistance with the graphics. We are particularly grateful for adaptable, with applications spanning multiple sec- the support and collaboration of our European Commission partners, in particular: Ingrid Keller and Laura Gillini from DG SANTE (Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety); ronmental surveillance, and are well suited to support Ana Burgos Gutierrez and Angela Tessarolo from DG HERA a comprehensive One Health approach. (Directorate-General for Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority); Simona Tavazzi, Sandra Coecke, Tobias Wiesenthal, Ursula Vincent and Ciarán Nichol from JRC. We acknowledge those who contributed to generating and sharing the sequences data and metadata via the GISAID Data availability Initative, on which this research is based. We would also All the raw data supporting the findings of this work are like to thank the SARI network (Sorveglianza Ambientale di available on request. SARS-CoV-2 attraverso i Reflui urbani in Italia) for providing wastewater samples. Authors’ contributions Disclaimer Gerhard Buttinger: Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing – review & editing. Mauro Petrillo: In silico analysis, The scientific output expressed does not imply a policy po- Formal analysis, Writing – original draft, Data curation, sition of the European Commission. Neither the European Methodology, Visualisation. Viviana Valastro: Formal analy- Commission nor any person acting on behalf of the sis, Investigation,
