Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


is therefore considered a rare disease ( 1 ). The syndrome predisposes mutation carriers to develop several endocrine tumors ( Figure 1 ) with a high lifetime incidence of primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT), pituitary adenomas (PA), and neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) of the pancreas (PanNET) and duodenum (dNET) ( 2 ). These tumors are considered the cardinal manifestations of the syndrome. Besides the cardinal manifestations, patients with MEN1 are at a higher risk for developing NETs of the thymus, lung, and stomach. In addition, there is a higher risk for adrenal tumors and a higher risk for developing breast cancer in women ( 3 , 4 ). Next to these endocrine manifestations, patients are at risk for developing several non-endocrine lesions of the skin and subcutaneous tumors such as lipomas. Figure1. Manifestations of MEN1 After identification of the causative MEN1 mutation an intensive lifelong surveillance program follows, if possible, starting at childhood because of the high life-time risk for developing tumors ( 2 ). This intensive follow-up is aimed at early detection of tumors to enable timely interventions in order to prevent complications and metastases of tumors and thereby preventing premature death and improving the quality of the life of patients. In 2001 the first set of clinical practice guidelines was published by Brandi et al ( 5 ). Because of paucity of scientific evidence, these guidelines were mainly based on expert opinion. Although more evidence was available, the updated clinical guidelines of Thakker, et al. which were published in 2012 were also written in the absence of robust scientific evidence ( 2 ). However, publishing the clinical practice guidelines led to more structured care of patients, which facilitated studies of the natural course of the disease and the effect of follow-up and treatment strategies. Therefore, in the last two decades large and sometimes nation-wide MEN1 cohort studies were initiated which led to new insights into the course of the disease and knowledge about more optimal follow-up and treatment. However, to date there remains a paucity of prospective data from interventional trials designed specifically for MEN1 patients. GENETICS The MEN1 gene (OMIM 613733 (gene) and OMIM 131100 (phenotype) ), identified in 1997 ( 6 , 7 ), consists of 10 exons and is localized on chromosome 11q13. Exon 1, the 5’ region upstream of exon 2 and the 3’ region of exon 10 are non-coding, so there are 9 coding exons (exons
