Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


is localized on chromosome 11q13. Exon 1, the 5’ region upstream of exon 2 and the 3’ region of exon 10 are non-coding, so there are 9 coding exons (exons 2 through 10). The MEN1 gen encodes the protein menin, a 610 amino-acid nuclear scaffold protein that regulates gene transcription by coordinating chromatin remodeling. In 2008, Lemos and Thakker published an overview of the 459 different germline mutations reported in the first decade since the discovery of the gene ( 8 ). In 2016, Concolino, et al . identified an additional 208 novel germline variants, of which 76 were reported as Variant of Unknown Significance (VUS) ( 9 ). Around 40% of all identified mutations are frameshift mutations, 25% nonsense, 20% missense, 10% splice-site, and the remainder 5% are rarer mutations such as in-frame deletions/insertions and partial or whole gene deletions ( 10 ). Frameshift, nonsense, and splice-site mutations, which are the majority, are predicted to be loss of function mutations that lead to truncated forms of menin ( 8 ). The variants are scattered throughout the MEN1 gene with no evident hotspots, although some mutations are found in apparently unrelated families. This is considered to be a founder effect ( 11 ). Sequence analysis of the MEN1 gene will reveal most of the variants. Since 1-2% of the variants are (partial) deletions of the MEN1 gene ( 8 ), multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) or Copy Number Variation (CNV) analysis should also be included in the diagnostic DNA testing. When a sequence variant is identified in the MEN1 gene this is classified by the genetic laboratory as either benign or likely benign (which is considered a “negative” result i.e., no disease-causing variant is found, clinically similar to no sequence variant identified), as a VUS (uncertain if the variant is disease causing) or as pathogenic or likely pathogenic (which is considered a “positive” result, a disease-causing variant is found). Especially new non-truncating (mostly missense) mutations may be difficult to classify ( 12 ). The approximate prevalence of MEN1 has been reported as 1 in 30,000 individuals with no apparent gender bias. MEN1 follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with >95% penetrance by age 40–50 years ( 11 ). The cardinal clinical manifestations of MEN1 are primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT), anterior pituitary adenomas (PA), and NET of the duodenum and pancreas, the so called three P’s. If a patient is diagnosed
