Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


cardinal clinical manifestations of MEN1 are primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT), anterior pituitary adenomas (PA), and NET of the duodenum and pancreas, the so called three P’s. If a patient is diagnosed with MEN1, he or she should be advised to undergo screening to detect manifestations and remain under lifelong surveillance in a center of expertise where care is provided by multidisciplinary teams (MDTs) comprising relevant specialists with experience in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with endocrine tumors ( 2 ). Single center cohorts have identified certain genotypes that are associated with a more aggressive course of the disease (especially related to duodenopancreatic NETs), such as mutation in the JUND ( 13 ) or the CHES1 ( 14 ) interacting domain or nonsense/frameshift versus missense mutations ( 15 ), but since none of these associations have been independently validated, genotype cannot be used to individualize surveillance. Evaluation of 10 Dutch families suggest genetic anticipation (decreased age of disease onset or an increased disease severity in successive generations), a known phenomenon which to date cannot be explained in autosomal dominant inherited disease genes without trinucleotide repeat expansions (“growing genes”) ( 16 ). Somatic mosaicism with subsequent germline inheritance has been described ( 17 ). Function of the MEN1 Gene MEN1 is considered to act as a tumor suppressor gene which is demonstrated by the identification of inactivating mutations, together with loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in MEN1-related tumors. Biochemical, proteomics, genetics and genomics approaches have identified various potential roles, which converge on the regulation of gene expression. The most consistent findings show that menin connects transcription factors including JUND (OMIM 165162 ), NFKB (OMIM 164011 ), and SMAD3 (OMIM 603109 ) and modulates their activities. In the nucleus, menin acts as a scaffold protein to regulate gene transcription by coordinating chromatin remodeling interacting with chromatin regulatory proteins in the MLL1 /MLL2 complex. Menin is implicated in both histone deacetylase and histone methyltransferase activity (HMT), and via the latter it regulates the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CDKI) and homeobox domain genes ( 18 , 19 ). While the MEN1 gene functions as a tumor suppressor gene in MEN1, it has an oncogenic role in sporadic breast cancer cells ( 18 ). Some excellent reviews on the function of the MEN1 gene can be found elsewhere ( 11 , 18 , 20 ). Potential Therapeutic Opportunities ( 18 ) Loss of menin in MEN1-associated
