Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


reviews on the function of the MEN1 gene can be found elsewhere ( 11 , 18 , 20 ). Potential Therapeutic Opportunities ( 18 ) Loss of menin in MEN1-associated tissues, leads to the disruption of anti-proliferative gene expression programs and to the development of endocrine tumors. Restoration of the epigenetic perturbations or correction of the function of aberrantly expressed genes in the absence of menin hold promise for molecular mechanism-based means to treat or prevent MEN1-related tumors. The fate and function of a cell are determined by its gene expression signature. As menin is a transcriptional regulator, MEN1-related tumorigenesis is likely to be the result of aberrant tumor suppressive gene expression due to the loss of menin. Restoration of the expression of menin target genes in MEN1-affected tissues could therefore have therapeutic consequences. This has been shown in a preclinical study in mice, where MEN1 replacement in pituitary tumors of Men1 (+/-) mice led to a decrease in proliferation of the pituitary tumors ( 21 ). DIAGNOSIS AND GENETIC TESTING Diagnosis of MEN1 Patients with MEN1 are at risk to develop different endocrine and non-endocrine manifestations. The most important of which are (with approximate lifetime prevalence in parentheses): Cardinal manifestations/Major criteria: pHPT (>95%), duodenopancreatic NETs (dpNETs) (>80%) and anterior pituitary tumors (50–65%) Minor clinical criteria: adrenal adenomas (11–35%) and bronchopulmonary, thymic, and gastric NETs (20–30%) ( 22 , 23 ). Additionally, there might be an association with meningioma (<10%). Cutaneous manifestations such as subcutaneous lipomas (but visceral, pleural, or retroperitoneal lipomas have also been described), facial angiofibromas (22-88%) and collagenomas (0-72%) are also seen ( 2 ). Women with MEN1 have a 2-3-fold elevated risk of developing breast cancer ( 3 , 4 ). Presently, MEN1 can be diagnosed genetically by identifying the germline heterozygous (likely) pathogenic variant in the MEN1 gene through DNA analysis. According to the guidelines, a diagnosis of MEN1 can also be made on familial grounds in a patient with one of the cardinal MEN1 manifestations and a first-degree family member with MEN1 ( 2 ). Additionally, a clinical diagnosis can be made in individuals with two of the three cardinal manifestations ( 2 ). However, with modern-day sensitive DNA testing, the value of the clinical criterion in patients with negative DNA testing is under debate. There is mounting evidence that patients who have clinical MEN1, but negative DNA testing have a different clinical course
