Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


clinical criterion in patients with negative DNA testing is under debate. There is mounting evidence that patients who have clinical MEN1, but negative DNA testing have a different clinical course from patients with positive DNA testing ( 24 , 25 ). The same could also be argued for patients with a familial diagnosis with negative DNA testing for the family mutation, as these may have a sporadically occurring endocrine tumor. This subject is discussed in more detail in the paragraph on genetic heterogeneity. Patients with MEN1 suffer from high morbidity and a decreased life expectancy. In the present day and age, MEN1-related malignancy is the main MEN1-related cause of death, particularly due to duodenopancreatic and thymic NETs ( 26 , 27 ). A timely and accurate diagnosis of MEN1 is paramount to improve disease outcomes. This enables early identification of tumor manifestations allowing timely treatment to reduce morbidity and improve survival ( 28 ). It is therefore important for clinicians to consider the diagnosis of MEN1 not only in those patients meeting clinical or familial criteria, but also in patients with a suspicious family or personal medical history, but not meeting clinical or familial diagnostic criteria. In patients presenting with an endocrine tumor within the MEN1 spectrum, taking a family history of MEN1-related tumors is very important. Additionally, a young age at presentation or multifocality of tumors within a single organ may point to a diagnosis of MEN1. The combination of a major and minor criterion or two minor criteria should also raise suspicion of MEN1. In all these cases of suspected MEN1, the patient should be referred to a clinical geneticist or genetic counselor for counseling and consideration of DNA testing. For patients presenting with sporadically occurring endocrine tumors, de Laat, et al. developed and validated a prediction rule to predict the presence of an MEN1 mutation ( 29 ). In this model, recurrent pHPT, non-recurrent pHPT, dpNETs, PA, NET of the stomach, lung and thymus, a positive family history for a NET and age, predicted the risk of having MEN1. The authors developed a nonogram for clinical practice, allowing the clinician to calculate the risk of MEN1 in patients suspected of MEN1 with sporadically occurring endocrine tumors ( 29 ). DNA Testing According to current practice guidelines diagnostic DNA testing for MEN1 should be offered to ( 2 ): all patients fulfilling the diagnostic criteria of a clinical
