Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


29 ). DNA Testing According to current practice guidelines diagnostic DNA testing for MEN1 should be offered to ( 2 ): all patients fulfilling the diagnostic criteria of a clinical or familial MEN1 diagnosis all patients with a pHPT under the age of 30 or multiple (synchronous) parathyroid adenomas under the age of 40 or recurrent parathyroid adenomas patients with a gastrin-producing NET (irrespective the age of presentation) patients with multiple PanNETs (irrespective the age of presentation) patients with two different minor criteria a patient with an MEN1-related tumor with a positive family history of MEN1-related tumors Once MEN1 is diagnosed in the proband, genetic counseling and DNA testing should be offered to family members, preferably by means of cascade screening. Data from the DutchMEN Study Group (DMSG) emphasize the importance of timely genetic testing of family members and prompt clinical screening according to MEN1 guidelines. In a study determining lag time between MEN1 diagnosis in index cases and their non-index family members, they found a median lag time of 3.5 years (range 0-30) years, in which clinically significant manifestations occurred in the non-index family members with MEN1 ( 30 ). Genetic testing in asymptomatic family members of MEN1 patients is called pre-symptomatic or predictive genetic testing and involves testing the at-risk family members for the familial MEN1 mutation. This is single-site testing, and outcome is whether the family mutation is present or absent in this particular family member. Genetic Heterogeneity Some studies have reported that between 5% and 10% of patient who fulfill the clinical criteria for MEN1 will not harbor mutations in the coding region or adjacent splice sites. In some of these patients a (likely) pathogenic variant can be found in the CDKN1A (OMIM 600778 ), CDKN1B (OMIM 116899 ), CDKN2B (OMIM 600431 ) or CDKN2C gene (OMIM 603369 ). Mutations in CDKN1B are the cause of the MEN4 syndrome, the latest of the MEN syndromes and most rare, with <50 cases reported in the literature to date ( 31 - 33 ). Rather than being a separate phenotype, (likely) pathogenic variants in these genes are more likely to cause a MEN1 phenotype, with pHPT, PA and gastroenteropancreatic NETs as the main features, and are best met with the same guidelines for surveillance, until more is known about the phenotype of this rare syndrome. Recent data have shown that patients with a clinical diagnosis of MEN1, in
