Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


with the same guidelines for surveillance, until more is known about the phenotype of this rare syndrome. Recent data have shown that patients with a clinical diagnosis of MEN1, in whom no (likely) pathogenic variant in the MEN1 gene can be found (genotype-negative MEN1/GN-MEN1), and who do not have another known germline mutation, have a different phenotype and clinical course compared to mutation positive patients ( 24 , 25 ). Genotype-negative patients develop MEN1 manifestations at higher age, rarely develop a third main MEN1 manifestation, and have a life expectancy comparable with the general population ( 24 , 25 ). Additionally, regarding the individual manifestations, it seems that GN-MEN1 patients have less recurrent or multigland pHPT, less multifocal PanNETs, and more somatotrophinomas and less prolactinomas compared to genotype-positive patients ( 25 ). Most patients with GN-MEN1 present with the combination of pHPT and PA, followed by pHPT/dpNET and dpNET/PA ( 25 ). The apparent differences in clinical course suggest that GN-MEN1 patients do not have true MEN1, but another MEN1-like syndrome or sporadic co-incidence of two NETs ( 2 , 33 ). In these patients there is usually a negative family history for MEN1-related disease. Although not specified in the current guidelines, these patients may benefit from a separate classification with alternative surveillance recommendations based on the clinical picture, as has been suggested by Pieterman, et al. ( 25 ). Important baseline considerations for an alternative surveillance are genetic counseling, comprehensive genetic testing based on the personal and family history, and baseline screening to identify any unrecognized manifestations. In these patients, there is generally no cause for surveillance of the first-degree relatives, although these decisions should be individualized and discussed in multidisciplinary teams. GN-MEN1 patients with a positive family history of clinical MEN1 or a foregut NET and those presenting with all three main MEN1-related tumors, should be followed according to MEN1 guidelines as should their relatives. In these patients, a “false-negative result” of DNA testing should also be considered. This may either be because deletion/duplication analyses are not performed, a sequence variant exists outside of the assayed region, or polymerase chain reaction primer selection led to selective amplification of wild-type DNA ( 25 ). Additionally, somatic mosaicism or alternative mechanisms of MEN1 gene silencing could lead to inactivation of normal menin ( 25 ). Depending on the presenting clinical picture and the family history, other hereditary syndromes causing endocrine
