Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


mechanisms of MEN1 gene silencing could lead to inactivation of normal menin ( 25 ). Depending on the presenting clinical picture and the family history, other hereditary syndromes causing endocrine tumors should also be considered. If pHPT is the primary phenotype, other genes associated with hereditary pHPT are for example CDC73, CASR and RET (MEN2) . Germline CDC73 (formerly HRPT2 ) (OMIM 607393 ) analysis is recommended in individuals with (suspected) Hyperparathyroidism-Jaw Tumor (HPT-JT) syndrome, familial isolated pHPT, atypical or malignant parathyroid histology, and young individuals with pHPT. These criteria would increase germline CDC73 mutation detection, enabling optimal clinical management of pHPT as well as genetic counseling and surveillance for family members at risk for developing CDC73 -related disorders( 34 ). If PAs are the primary phenotype, mutations in the AIP gene (OMIM 605555 ) should be considered as these can cause (familial) pituitary adenomas. Predictors of a genetic cause of sporadic pituitary adenomas are young age of diagnosis, and also in AIP pathogenic variants there is an association with gigantism and macroadenomas ( 35 ). PanNETs can also be seen in neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL), and Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC). Pretest Counseling Before DNA testing, pretest counseling is of utmost importance. The patient should be informed by genetic counseling about all aspects (medical, psychological, social, and familial implications) of the possible outcome of genetic testing. This should lead to an individual decision whether or not to opt for DNA testing. In case of DNA testing in minors the counseling should be offered to the parents, and include the minor if possible (which is obligatory over the age of 12 in the country where the authors practice (the Netherlands) to obtain informed consent for testing. In case of diagnostic testing the patient must be informed about the possible outcomes of the DNA test (finding an (likely)pathogenic variant, finding a VUS, and not finding (likely) pathogenic variants) and the implications of these findings for the patient and family members. In diagnostic DNA testing the MEN1 gene should be analyzed, for which Sanger sequencing can be used, or Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) techniques. To exclude deletions MLPA or CNV analysis must be performed. As mentioned earlier there is genetic heterogeneity and panel DNA diagnostics can be considered. In particular CDKN1A, CDKN1B, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CDC73 and AIP can be added to the panel using NGS techniques, also to be completed
