Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


heterogeneity and panel DNA diagnostics can be considered. In particular CDKN1A, CDKN1B, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CDC73 and AIP can be added to the panel using NGS techniques, also to be completed with CNV analysis, depending on the clinical picture. In case of panel testing, the patient must be prepared for the possible findings in the different genes, differentiation of the consequences, and implications of these findings. In case of testing for a familial (likely) pathogenic variant (so-called presymptomatic or predictive DNA testing) presence or absence of the familial mutation can be ascertained, but the differences in expression of the MEN1 syndrome, both within and between families must be emphasized. In case of future pregnancy the possible options like invasive prenatal diagnostics and Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) should be discussed so the prospective parents can make an informed decision about the desired pregnancy. Periodical Screening The identification of an MEN1 mutation in patients and family members at risk is followed by the advice to remain under lifelong surveillance, with at least annual clinic visits including history, physical examination, biochemical screening, and radiological screening at specific intervals ( 2 ). This should preferably be carried out in centers of expertise with a dedicated multidisciplinary team well versed in management of patients with MEN1. In MEN1 there are no prophylactic treatments, so the goal of this screening & surveillance program is early detection of MEN1-related tumors to minimize morbidity by hormonal hypersecretion and to prevent malignant NETs by timely intervention. In the absence of known genotype-phenotype correlations and with a heterogeneous clinical course, even within families, the specific mutation or family history cannot solely guide the surveillance program. In the following sections screening and surveillance is discussed within each manifestation. Screening at the Pediatric Age The current clinical guidelines for MEN1 suggest starting clinical and biochemical screening at the age of 5 years ( 2 ), which is based on the earliest reported case of a patients with a clinical MEN1 manifestation ( 36 ). For radiologic screening in asymptomatic children, pituitary imaging is suggested from age 5 years onward (every 3 years), with abdominal imaging starting at age 10 years (every 1-3 years) and thoracic imaging starting at age 15 years (every 1-2 years) ( 2 ). However, this intensive surveillance at the pediatric age has been questioned by some groups who suggest postponing routine screening of asymptomatic patients until ages 15 or
