Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


years) ( 2 ). However, this intensive surveillance at the pediatric age has been questioned by some groups who suggest postponing routine screening of asymptomatic patients until ages 15 or 16 years while counseling parents about typical clinical signs of MEN1 manifestations and contacting providers if they occur ( 37 ). PRIMARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) ( Figure 1 ) is one of the cardinal manifestations of MEN1 and has an almost complete lifetime penetrance ( 24 , 38 ). It is often the first clinical manifestation of the disease and biochemical (asymptomatic) pHPT can be diagnosed several years before symptoms arise. The reported mean age of pHPT diagnosis in published MEN1 cohorts is in the fourth decade of life ( 39 - 45 ), with wide ranges. When interpreting these mean ages at diagnosis it is important to realize that these cohorts often span multiple decades, are made up of both index cases and family members, and contain patients who did and did not follow prospective screening programs. Recent studies reporting on MEN1 at the pediatric age show that in a screened population at least half of the pediatric patients already have primary hyperparathyroidism, although rarely seen before the age of 10 ( 46 - 49 ). In most cases, patients diagnosed at a pediatric age are asymptomatic and the diagnosis is made biochemically by screening ( 46 - 49 ). Clinical and symptomatic pHPT is usually seen in the third decade of life. Primary hyperparathyroidism in MEN1 is a multiglandular disease, affecting all parathyroid glands, although often asymmetrically and asynchronously. Parathyroid tumors in adults with MEN1 usually represent mono- or oligoclonal proliferations that probably arise independently in each parathyroid gland ( 50 ). Tumorigenesis is initiated when the remaining normal allele of the MEN1 gene is lost (the second hit), and as this cumulative chance increases with age, normal parathyroid tissue is less often seen with increasing age ( 51 ). Supernumerary glands (that is, more than four parathyroid glands) are frequently seen in MEN1, with reported ranges between 12-30% ( 52 ). Parathyroid glands at ectopic locations are also not uncommon in MEN1, especially in the thymus. The diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism can be made when there is hypercalcemia in combination with an elevated or inadequately normal parathyroid hormone (PTH). In patients with MEN1 who follow a prospective screening program from an early age, the diagnosis is
