Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


is hypercalcemia in combination with an elevated or inadequately normal parathyroid hormone (PTH). In patients with MEN1 who follow a prospective screening program from an early age, the diagnosis is often made while they are still asymptomatic. Classic objective symptoms of pHPT include polyuria and polydipsia, gastro-intestinal complaints (nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, pancreatitis), (symptomatic) urolithiasis, and decreased bone mineral density (BMD) which can lead to pathological fractures. Non-specific symptoms occurring in pHPT are fatigue, musculoskeletal complaints, neuropsychiatric symptoms such as anxiety, depression, concentration disturbance and sleep-disturbances, and a general decrease in quality of life. The diagnosis of pHPT in patients with known MEN1 or from a known MEN1 kindred is straightforward. However, pHPT can also be the first clinical clue to an MEN1 diagnosis in a patient or family without prior MEN1 diagnosis or suspected history. The prevalence of pHPT in the general population can be up to 1% ( 53 , 54 ) and among cohorts of patients with pHPT, depending on the characteristics, the incidence of MEN1 is 1-18% ( 2 ). Considering MEN1 in patients presenting with pHPT is extremely important, because the diagnosis alters the management and prognosis of pHPT, allows screening and surveillance for other endocrine tumors associated with MEN1, and allows for cascade screening within the family to identify MEN1 germline mutations carriers. Important clues to an MEN1 diagnosis in a patient presenting with pHPT are young age of onset, a family history of pHPT or other MEN1-related tumors, a personal history of other MEN1-related tumors, and multiglandular disease or persistent/recurrent pHPT ( 29 ). Recurrent pHPT is one of the strongest predictors for the presence of an MEN1 mutation ( 29 ). Compared to sporadic pHPT, patients with MEN1-related pHPT present at an earlier age, have an almost equal gender distribution compared to female predominance in sporadic pHPT, and present with lower levels of calcium and PTH ( 55 , 56 ). Even though they have biochemically milder disease, BMD seems to be lower in patients with MEN1-related pHPT and renal involvement similar compared to patient with sporadic pHPT, which may reflect longer standing disease ( 55 ). MEN1-related pHPT is a multiglandular disease, as already stipulated, while sporadic pHPT is predominantly caused by single-gland adenomas ( 56 , 57 ). This also affects recurrence rates which are much higher in MEN1-related pHPT ( 56 , 57 ). The American Association of Endocrine
