Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


by single-gland adenomas ( 56 , 57 ). This also affects recurrence rates which are much higher in MEN1-related pHPT ( 56 , 57 ). The American Association of Endocrine Surgeons (AAES) guidelines advise genetic counseling for patients younger than 40 years with pHPT and multiglandular disease and to consider this for those with a family history or syndromic manifestations ( 57 ). The European guidelines slightly differ suggesting genetic testing for MEN1 in patients with pHPT before the age of 40, multiglandular disease, or persistent/recurrent pHPT ( 58 ). When comparing, several studies show that patients with MEN1-related pHPT have lower BMD compared to patients with sporadic pHPT ( 55 , 59 , 60 ), although a Chinese study found no significant difference ( 61 ). In patients with MEN1-related pHPT, decreased BMD is frequently seen and already present at a young age ( 62 - 64 ). When measured the 1/3 distal radius seems most affected, so including this location in dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) should be considered in patients with MEN1 ( 62 , 64 ). Parathyroidectomy improves BMD ( 59 , 65 ), although in one small study improvement was less for patients with MEN1 compared to patients with sporadic pHPT ( 59 ). A factor contributing to the earlier and more severe bone involvement in MEN1-related pHPT may be the early-onset of the disease thereby also influencing peak bone formation. In addition, other MEN1-related diseases may also contribute to bone loss such as pituitary insufficiency caused by pituitary adenomas or their treatment, hypercortisolism (although infrequent in MEN1), and gastro-intestinal surgery ( 66 ). Urolithiasis is also frequently seen and at a young age in patients MEN1-related pHPT ( 55 , 62 , 64 ). In addition, a recent study showed that patients with MEN1 age 20-59 had a higher prevalence of chronic kidney disease stage 3 compared to the general US population ( 67 ). It is therefore important to perform Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) to assess BMD as well as a renal ultrasound and 24-hour urine for calcium excretion to asses risk of urolithiasis in patients with MEN1 diagnosed with pHPT. And if initial observation is chosen, DEXA should be repeated every 2 years ( 68 ). In patients with MEN1 and pHPT, the interplay with Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (ZES; increased gastric acid section due to gastrinomas) is also relevant, as calcium can increase gastrin
