Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


( 68 ). In patients with MEN1 and pHPT, the interplay with Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (ZES; increased gastric acid section due to gastrinomas) is also relevant, as calcium can increase gastrin levels. In a study among 84 patients with MEN1-pHPT and ZES, successful parathyroidectomy resulted in biochemical cure of ZES without any resection of duodenal or pancreatic NETs in 20% of the patients ( 69 ). In a recent perspective paper Hackeng and colleagues propose a parathyroid-gut axis arguing that hypercalcemia may promote the gastrin-cell hyperplasia to neoplasia sequence through the calcium-sensing receptor ( 70 ). The reverse, a more severe form of pHPT among patients with MEN1-ZES has also been suggested, because in the aforementioned study of 84 patients with MEN1-pHTP and ZES, patients had a higher frequency of urolithiasis at presentation, higher serum PTH, and higher recurrences rates after initial subtotal parathyroidectomy compared to the literature ( 69 ). Parathyroidectomy The treatment of hyperparathyroidism in MEN1 is surgical. Intervention is aimed at achieving eucalcemia for as long as possible, while preventing permanent hypoparathyroidism and facilitating potential subsequent surgery. The optimal timing of the initial operation is still a matter of debate, especially in (asymptomatic) children and young adults. The guidelines for the management of asymptomatic pHPT recommend surgical intervention in case of significant hypercalcemia (1 mg/dL or 0.25 mmol/L above the upper limit of normal), skeletal abnormalities (a T-score of < -2.5 at the Lumbar Spine, Total Hip, Femoral Neck or 1/3 Distal Radius or a vertebral fracture), risk of renal complications (creatinine clearance below 60 ml/min, 24-h urine calcium excretion of >400 mg/d (>10 mmol/L)), the presence of nephrolithiasis/nephrocalcinosis, or age below 50 ( 68 ). However, these guidelines are not intended for patients with MEN1 and most patients with MEN1 will meet the age-criterion regardless of other values. In patients with MEN1 surgery is indicated in case of symptoms, significant hypercalcemia, and renal or skeletal complications. In addition, concomitant gastrinoma may also provide an indication for surgical intervention of pHPT. For patients not meeting any of these criteria, there is no evidence to determine timing of surgery. Arguments have been made in favor of observation to avoid the risk of symptomatic hypoparathyroidism, multiple operations, and by allowing the disease to progress a little bit more, making the glands more easily identifiable upon intervention. However, on the other hand, data showing early bone and renal complications have made
