Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


the disease to progress a little bit more, making the glands more easily identifiable upon intervention. However, on the other hand, data showing early bone and renal complications have made others suggest and prefer early intervention to prevent downstream disabilities ( 71 ). For initial parathyroidectomy in patients with MEN1 there are theoretically four different strategies: focused parathyroidectomy (removing a single affected parathyroid gland), unilateral clearance (resection of all parathyroid tissue on one side, including unilateral cervical thymectomy), subtotal parathyroidectomy with concomitant cervical thymectomy, or total parathyroidectomy, cervical thymectomy and immediate auto-transplantation of parathyroid tissue (usually to the non-dominant forearm). The initial operation recommended by most experts and guidelines is a bilateral cervical exploration, identifying all four parathyroid glands and performing a subtotal parathyroidectomy (leaving a vascularized remnant about 1.5-2 times the size of a normal gland) with concomitant cervical thymectomy ( 2 , 57 , 58 , 71 - 73 ). The latter serves the dual purpose of removing any ectopic/supranumerary parathyroid glands and potentially decreases the risk of subsequent development of thymic NETs. This approach offers the best balance between persistence (persisting pHPT after operation or recurrence within 6 months after operation) and recurrence (recurrent pHPT 6 months or more after the operation preceded by a eucalcemic period) on the one hand and permanent (lasting >6 months after the operation) hypoparathyroidism on the other hand. Persistence is infrequent in subtotal (0-22%) and total parathyroidectomy (0-19%), but rates range from 0-53% in less than subtotal parathyroidectomy( 58 , 72 ). Recurrence rates are also significantly higher after less than subtotal parathyroidectomy (0-100%) compared to subtotal (0-65%) or total parathyroidectomy (0-56%) ( 58 , 72 ) and occur earlier ( 74 ). Permanent hypoparathyroidism on the other hand is rarely seen after less than subtotal parathyroidectomy. When comparing subtotal with total parathyroidectomy, hypoparathyroidism is significantly more frequent after total parathyroidectomy (RR 1.61 (95%CI 1.12-2.31) ( 72 ). Pre-operative imaging plays a limited role at initial parathyroidectomy in patients with MEN1, because the recommended initial operation always constitutes bilateral neck exploration( 58 ). In addition, data has shown that pre-operative imaging (consisting of neck ultrasound and sestamibi scan as first line and parathyroid computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as second line) only identified 68% of the largest glands pre-operatively ( 75 ). Pre-operative imaging may have some use for identifying ectopic glands (7% of ectopic glands were identified
