Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


as second line) only identified 68% of the largest glands pre-operatively ( 75 ). Pre-operative imaging may have some use for identifying ectopic glands (7% of ectopic glands were identified by pre-operative imaging in one series) and for identifying concomitant thyroid abnormalities that need attention ( 71 , 75 ). Similar, intra-operative PTH monitoring seems of little value during the initial parathyroidectomy ( 76 ). Recently, several groups have advocated unilateral clearance as an initial operation, especially for young patients with MEN1 ( 74 , 77 - 79 ). The rationale behind this approach is to provide several years of eucalcemia during acquisition of peak bone mass, while preventing hypoparathyroidism and allowing subsequent reoperations to be performed in a non-operated neck (the contra-lateral side). A prerequisite for this strategy is that pre-operative imaging concordantly shows unilateral disease. Intra-operative PTH monitoring should be used to ensure there is an adequate drop in PTH after the resection. Although persistence rates between 10-15% after unilateral clearance or single-gland excision have been reported by these groups ( 74 , 77 ), others state that less than subtotal parathyroidectomy has an unacceptable failure rate (69% in one study) ( 80 ). Several remarks must be made when using retrospective studies to evaluate this strategy. The first being that intentional less than subtotal resection is a different entity from an intended subtotal or total resection in which not all glands were identified ( 78 ). Secondly, true unilateral clearance in which all parathyroid tissue on one side of the neck is removed including unilateral cervical thymectomy is a very different operative strategy from minimal invasive parathyroidectomy/single gland excision and in retrospective studies these are often lumped together under “less than subtotal” resections. Thirdly, the success of such an approach is dependent on the sensitivity of pre-operative imaging and in most retrospective studies, more sensitive imaging modalities such as 18F-fluorcholine positron emission tomography (PET)/CT have not been used. Finally, since in MEN1 inherently all parathyroids are affected, although asynchronously, such an approach may be more successful in younger patients, where there may still be normal parathyroid glands ( 51 ). Currently this approach is controversial. Therefore, prospective data are needed to determine if and when unilateral clearance can benefit patients with MEN1 at the time of their initial parathyroidectomy. Currently, subtotal parathyroidectomy remains the initial procedure of choice, but total parathyroidectomy or unilateral clearance can be considered
