Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


can benefit patients with MEN1 at the time of their initial parathyroidectomy. Currently, subtotal parathyroidectomy remains the initial procedure of choice, but total parathyroidectomy or unilateral clearance can be considered depending on individual circumstances. Single gland excision is generally not recommended. After initial subtotal parathyroidectomy, the 10-year recurrence rate is approximately 50% ( 2 ). Reoperation is therefore a frequent necessity in patients with MEN1. Recurrence can be caused by parathyroid glands missed during the initial operation, parathyroid glands intentionally left in situ, growth of the remnant of a partially resected gland, supranumerary and/or ectopic glands, and hyperplasia of autotransplanted parathyroid tissue. As reoperations are more complex and have a higher risk of complications (12% not including hypoparathyroidism in one study of reoperative parathyroidectomy in MEN1 ( 81 )), the timing of the reoperation is individualized and patients with mild biochemical recurrence are usually initially observed. When reoperation is indicated, careful examination of the operation notes and pathology reports of previous procedures, if available, is very important. In contrast to the initial surgery, pre-operative imaging is essential for surgical planning in reoperations. First-line imaging studies are neck ultrasound and Tc99m-sestamibi scan, although this may not show all enlarged glands. Second-line imaging studies are 4-dimentional CT or MRI and PET (18F-fluorocholine or 11C-methionine) ( 82 , 83 ). In a small study 18F-fluorocholine PET-CT has also shown to be of added value in MEN1-related pHPT ( 84 ). If first- and second-line studies are inconclusive more invasive localization studies can be considered such as arteriography, venous sampling, and neck ultrasound with fine needle aspiration and PTH measurement ( 83 ). The exact operative strategy (bilateral or unilateral neck exploration or focused resection) is individualized based on previous operation(s) and results of preoperative imaging. If the thymus was not removed during the initial operation, its removal is recommended at reoperation ( 81 ). Intra-operative PTH monitoring is valuable for the reoperative setting in MEN1 as it can inform when the exploration can be ended ( 71 , 81 ). As a consequence of the extended initial operation necessary, as well as frequent reoperation, life-time risk of postoperative hypoparathyroidism is relatively high for patients with MEN1. Transient hypoparathyroidism, defined as lasting less than six months after parathyroidectomy, may be seen in more than 50% of patients and its absence after subtotal parathyroidectomy may even be associated with recurrence ( 85 , 86 ).
