Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


six months after parathyroidectomy, may be seen in more than 50% of patients and its absence after subtotal parathyroidectomy may even be associated with recurrence ( 85 , 86 ). Rates of permanent hypoparathyroidism are dependent on the procedure performed and vary greatly between series. It is important to realize that, unless patients are truly aparathyroid, recovery of parathyroid function can occur after 6 months up to several years, and permanent hypoparathyroidism may therefore be more aptly termed “prolonged” hypoparathyroidism ( 86 ). To prevent hypoparathyroidism immediate autotransplantation is used when it is suspected that all parathyroid glands are resected or when there is concern about parathyroid tissue viability in situ ( 57 ). Cryopreservation with delayed autotransplantation can also be used as a rescue from permanent hypoparathyroidism, but is not available everywhere and its use has been under debate ( 57 ). Non-Surgical Interventions For those patients who require intervention, but who are not surgical candidates, cinacalcet, an allosteric agonist of the calcium receptor, can be used. It has been shown to reduce/normalize calcium and PTH in small studies in patients with MEN1, although it has no effect on bone and renal complications( 87 - 89 ). Cinacalcet should be used with great caution in children, as a death from acute hypocalcemia has been reported in a 14-year-old ( 90 ). Another alternative may be ethanol ablation of enlarged parathyroid glands. A study from the Mayo Clinic reported results from 37 patients who had an average of 2.2 treatments and a mean duration of eucalcemia of 25 months. Complications were hypocalcemia in 8%, hoarseness in 5%, and cough in 1% ( 91 ). Parathyroid Carcinoma Parathyroid carcinoma is a very rare endocrine malignancy seen in <1% of all patients with pHPT ( 92 ). It is likewise very rare in patients with MEN1, with only 21 reported cases in the literature (based on a review published in 2020) ( 93 ). In three large series from The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, the Mayo Clinic, and The Peking Union Medical College Hospital the prevalence of parathyroid carcinomas was 2/242 (0.8%), 1/348 (0.3%) and 1/153 (0.7%) respectively and the prevalence of atypical parathyroid neoplasm was 1/242 (0.4%), 0, and 2/153 (1.3%) respectively ( 93 - 95 ). Conclusion In conclusion, pHPT in MEN1 has an almost complete penetrance and is responsible for most MEN1-related surgeries. It is a
