Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


and 2/153 (1.3%) respectively ( 93 - 95 ). Conclusion In conclusion, pHPT in MEN1 has an almost complete penetrance and is responsible for most MEN1-related surgeries. It is a multiglandular disease and recurrence after initial operation is to be expected. End-organ damage (bone, renal) can occur early and in asymptomatic patients and should be systematically looked for. Recognizing MEN1 in a patient presenting with apparently sporadic pHPT has important consequences for both the patient and his/her family. Surgical decision making is complex both for initial and reoperations and patients with MEN1 should whenever possible be treated in centers of expertise by a high-volume endocrine surgeon. Treatment decisions are made by multidisciplinary teams in shared decision making with the patient taking into account not only medical information but also the patient’s individual situation, such as but not limited to, ability to adhere to follow-up and insurance issues. PITUITARY ADENOMAS In 1903, the first description of a case with MEN1 was published by Erdheim. The necropsy report of a patient with acromegaly revealed a pituitary adenoma and enlarged parathyroid glands ( 96 ). Pituitary adenomas (PAs) are one of the three cardinal features associated with MEN1 and part of the so-called ‘three Ps’ ( Figure 1 ). PAs are in general benign lesions and do not seem to negatively affect survival in patients with MEN1( 26 ), although cases of mortality due to PAs have been reported ( 27 ). However, they can cause significant morbidity due to mass effect on the optic chiasm or hormone secretion leading to functional symptoms or hormone deficiency. As in other main manifestations of MEN1, loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at the MEN1 locus has been demonstrated in pituitary adenomas in patients with MEN1, confirming the role of MEN1 in the pathogenesis of these tumors ( 97 - 100 ). However, in contrast to PanNETs, the role of MEN1 /menin in tumorigenesis of sporadic PAs seems to be limited. Although initially, before the identification of the MEN1 gene, 19-33% of sporadic PAs showed allelic loss on chromosome 11 ( 101 , 102 ), subsequent studies investigating LOH, somatic mutations, and messenger mRNA expression found limited involvement of MEN1 in sporadic PAs ( 103 - 107 ). As the prevalence of clinically relevant PAs is 68-98/100,000 in the general population and in general <3% of patients with a PA will have MEN1, the question is when to
