Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


As the prevalence of clinically relevant PAs is 68-98/100,000 in the general population and in general <3% of patients with a PA will have MEN1, the question is when to think of MEN1 in a patient presenting with a PA ( 2 , 35 ). Obviously, MEN1 should be considered in a patient with a family history of MEN1-related tumors or presenting with other MEN1-related tumors. For patients with apparently sporadic PAs (no suspicious family history or syndromic features), a recent systematic review has shown that MEN1 mutation analysis is recommended in patients ≤ 30 years, although this was a weak recommendation based on low quality of evidence ( 35 ). Characteristics of Pituitary Adenoma in MEN1 From the earliest descriptions of MEN1 in the 1950s PAs have been recognized as one of the main characteristics of the syndrome. However, since the original description of MEN1, the clinical picture of MEN1-related PAs has changed. In a summary of the first 85 reported cases of MEN1 (many of which were autopsy cases), Ballard found a very high prevalence of 65% of PA, with 42% being chromophobe adenomas and more than one in four being acromegaly/eosinophilic adenoma ( 108 ). With the discovery of prolactin, it was soon realized that in fact prolactinomas were the most frequently occurring PA in patients with MEN1. The discovery of the MEN1 gene in 1997 ( 6 , 7 ), and more advanced genetic testing techniques such as NGS and MLPA, have allowed better identification of patients as having MEN1. This has led to the recognition that patients with a clinical diagnosis of MEN1 because they have two out of the three main MEN1-related tumors, but negative mutation analysis, have a different clinical course than mutation positive patients and arguably do not have true MEN1, but rather an MEN1-like syndrome or a co-occurrence of two sporadic tumors ( 24 , 25 ). Most patients in this group have a clinical MEN1 diagnosis based on the combination PA and pHPT. As these patients may have been included in older MEN1 cohorts, before the widespread availability of genetic testing, and these patients seem to have macro-adenomas and somatotrophinomas more often, this can be one of the reasons of the changing clinical picture of MEN1-related PAs. Additionally, imaging techniques have markedly improved over the last decades and guidelines have been developed for the screening and surveillance of patients with
