Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


<10%, and are in decreasing order of prevalence somatotropinomas, ACTH-producing adenomas (Cushing’s disease), and TSHomas and gonadotropinomas (the latter two being equally rare) ( 109 , 111 - 114 ). Co-secreting tumors are seen in less than 10% ( 109 , 111 - 114 ). Multifocal PAs are rare in MEN1, and are found in 1.5% in the most recent GTE cohort ( 114 ) and in 4% in the 2008 GTE cohort of surgically resected MEN1-related PAs ( 110 ). In this latter cohort the prevalence of multifocal tumors was compared to that in non-MEN1 resected PAs and was found to be significantly larger. Additionally, MEN1-related resected PAs were more often plurihormonal on immunostaining ( 110 ). Signs and symptoms in MEN1-related PAs ( Table 1 ) are not different from those observed in sporadic PAs and are caused by size effects (chiasm compression, compression of nerves in the cavernous sinus, hypopituitarism) and effects of hormonal hypersecretion in functioning tumors. Table 1. Signs and Symptoms of Pituitary Adenomas in MEN1 View in own window Related to tumor size/ growth headache, visual field defects (usually bitemporal hemianopsia), diplopia, hypopituitarism Prolactinoma females: amenorrhea, galactorrhea, infertility males: hypogonadism, impotence, lack of libido, galactorrhea (rare), infertility Somatotrophinoma Acromegaly: local overgrowth of bone (most often mandible, skull), soft tissue growth (acral enlargement, coarse facial features), hyperhidrosis, fatigue, hyperglycemia, hypertension, sleep apnea, skin tags, hypogonadism. Corticotrophinoma Cushing syndrome: central obesity, hypertension, hyperglycemia, gonadal dysfunction, moon facies, plethora, osteoporosis, proximal muscle weakness, psychological disturbance, wide purple striae, easy bruising Thyrotropinoma heat intolerance, unintentional weight loss, anxiety, tremor, palpitations, frequent bowel movements Gonadotropinoma hypogonadism, ovarian hyperstimulation in women Pediatric specific delayed or halted pubertal development, primary amenorrhea (females), accelerated linear growth, poor growth velocity, decline in school performance Presently, most non-functioning PAs in MEN1 are microadenomas detected by prospective screening. These micro-adenomas show indolent behavior during follow-up. In the Dutch series after a median follow-up of 5.3 yrs, 9.7% showed minimal tumor growth which was without clinical significance in all and none progressed to macro-adenoma ( 111 ). In the Mayo Clinic cohort, in those with asymptomatic non-functioning PA (size not specified) progression to surgery was seen only in 1.7/100yr ( 113 ). In the most recent GTE cohort, after a median follow-up of 2 years (IQR 0-4), progression in Hardy classification was only seen in 1 out of 63 patients with a non-functioning micro-adenoma (2%) (
