Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


However, the latest reports do not confirm this ( 111 , 114 ) and treatment results seem to be in line with what is reported in sporadic PAs. The latter cohorts consist of a population with meticulous surveillance and therefore PAs are detected in an early phase ( 111 , 114 ). Pituitary Carcinoma Pituitary carcinoma is extremely rare, and this is equally so in patients with MEN1. Although at higher risk for PA than the general population, there does not seem to be an increased risk of pituitary carcinoma. Single cases of malignant, metastatic prolactinoma ( 119 , 120 ), gonadotropinoma ( 121 ), thyrotropin secreting adenoma ( 122 ), and non-functioning PA ( 123 ) have been reported. Surveillance for Pituitary Adenoma Current guidelines recommend examination by MRI of the pituitary gland every three years from the age of five years, and an annual blood test of IGF-I and prolactin concentrations, together with a clinical assessment ( 2 ). The young starting age – which was based on a single case-report – has been disputed, given that PAs are rarely seen before the age of 10. The aim of surveillance imaging is to detect the PAs in an early phase before clinical symptoms become apparent. In general, surveillance leads to detection of smaller non-functioning PAs ( 111 , 113 , 114 ). However, early diagnosis by surveillance is not associated with smaller prolactinomas, but treatment is required less frequently and a longer safe observation period can be conducted ( 111 ). There are currently no specific recommendations for the follow-up of MEN1-related (micro-)adenomas under observation, on medical treatment or after surgical resection. DUODENOPANCREATIC NEUROENDOCRINE TUMORS AND GASTRIC NETS General Duodenopancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (dpNETs) ( Figure 1 ) are one of the cardinal features of MEN1 and highly penetrant, with a prevalence of over 80% at the age of 80 in recent cohorts ( 24 , 38 , 124 ). Malignant dpNETs are the most important cause of MEN1-related death ( 26 , 125 ). Duodenopancreatic NETs in MEN1 can secrete hormones that produce a clinical syndrome or be functionally silent (non-functioning, NF). Due to improved imaging techniques in the past decades, including endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and somatostatin receptor (SSTR) imaging, non-functioning pancreatic NETs (NF-PanNETs) are now recognized as the most frequent type of dpNET in patients with MEN1. Of the functional dpNETs, gastrinomas are the most frequent, seen
