Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


the age of 70 was 41.2% (95%CI 31.3-50.3) ( 15 ). Since patients with MEN1 often have multiple concomitant dpNETs and most patients with duodenal gastrinomas have concomitant NF-PanNETs, it may be difficult to determine the primary tumor for regional and distant metastases. Unlike in MEN2, in MEN1 there is no clear genotype-phenotype correlation. Several groups however have studied the association between MEN1 germline mutation and the disease course of dpNETs in their cohorts, to see if genotype might be able to identify a subset of patients with a more aggressive clinical course. This was in part fueled by the clinical observation that in some families dpNETs seem to be more prevalent, occur at a younger age and have a higher proportion of metastatic disease. Several associations have been reported: in the French GTE cohort mutations in the JUND interacting domain were associated with death ( 13 ), in the German Marburg cohort CHES1 loss of interaction was associated with aggressive pNETs and pNET-related mortality ( 14 ), in the Italian Florence cohort mutations in exon 8 were associated with higher risk of progression and mortality ( 140 ), in the MD Anderson cohort mutations in exon 2 were associated with a higher risk of distant metastases ( 141 ), and in the Dutch MEN1 cohort nonsense/frameshift mutations were associated with a higher cumulative probability of developing metastases in NF-PanNET (regional and/or distant) compared to missense mutations 53.9 (37.8-74.3%) vs 10% (2.6-82.7%)) ( 15 ). However, these associations up until now have not been independently validated, either because associations were not confirmed in other cohorts or validation was not performed. In patients with MEN1, dpNETs are usually diagnosed at an early stage, especially in patients from families with MEN1 or who have had predictive genetic testing. Additionally, even in index cases, benign MEN1 manifestations may lead to the diagnosis of MEN1 and dpNETs can be diagnosed early. In the French GTE cohort and the Dutch MEN1 cohort, both spanning multiple decades, synchronous metastases were seen in 6.5 and 6.4% of patients with a dpNET respectively ( 125 , 139 ). In MEN1-related dpNETs the focus of care therefore lies before the onset of metastatic disease and with a younger population than is seen in sporadic dpNETs. The goals of follow-up and treatment are to prevent metastatic disease, cure hormonal hypersecretion, and prevent complication from hormonal hypersecretion, while minimizing treatment-related complications
