Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


than is seen in sporadic dpNETs. The goals of follow-up and treatment are to prevent metastatic disease, cure hormonal hypersecretion, and prevent complication from hormonal hypersecretion, while minimizing treatment-related complications and preserving Quality of Life. It is therefore of utmost importance that whenever possible patients with MEN1 and MEN1-related dpNETs are treated in centers of expertise with a knowledgeable and experienced multidisciplinary team. Staging and Grading MEN1-related dpNET are graded according to the latest WHO classification ( Table 2 ) of digestive system tumors (2019, 5 th edition) and the WHO Classification of Tumors of Endocrine Organs (2017, 4 th edition) ( 142 ). Where previously dpNET grading was only covered in the Classification of Tumors of Endocrine Organs, it is now included in the classification of digestive system tumors as well ( 142 ). Table 2. WHO Classification of Digestive Neuroendocrine Tumors View in own window Classification Ki-67 proliferation index Mitotic rate (mitoses/2mm 2 ) Well-differentiated Neuroendocrine Tumors (NET) NET, G1 <3% <2 NET, G2 3-20% 2-20 NET, G3 >20% >20 Poorly-differentiated Neuroendocrine Carcinomas (NEC) NEC (G3) Small-cell type Large-cell type >20% >20 Pancreatic NETs are staged according to the AJCC UICC 8 th edition Neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas ( Table 3a and b ). Table 3 a. TNM Staging of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (AJCC UICC 8 th edition) View in own window Primary Tumor (T) For any T add (m) for multiple tumors e.g., T2(m). TX Tumor cannot be assessed T1 Tumor limited to the pancreas*, <2 cm T2 Tumor limited to the pancreas*, 2-4 cm T3 Tumor limited to the pancreas*, >4 cm; or tumor invading the duodenum or CBD T4 Tumor invading adjacent organs (stomach, spleen, colon, adrenal gland) or the wall of large vessels (celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery) Regional lymph Nodes (N) NX Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed N0 No regional lymph node involvement N1 Regional lymph node involvement Distant Metastases (M) M0 No distant metastases M1 Distant metastases M1a Hepatic metastases only M1b Extra-hepatic metastases only M1c Both hepatic and extra-hepatic metastases * Limited to the pancreas means no invasion of adjacent organs or the wall of large vessels. Extension into peripancreatic adipose tissue is included in “limited to the pancreas”. CBD common bile duct Table 3b Stage Grouping View in own window Stage I T1 N0 M0 Stage II T2-3 N0 M0 Stage III T4 N0 M0 Any
