Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


the pancreas”. CBD common bile duct Table 3b Stage Grouping View in own window Stage I T1 N0 M0 Stage II T2-3 N0 M0 Stage III T4 N0 M0 Any T N1 M0 Stage IV Any T Any N M1 Duodenal NETs are staged according to the AJCC UICC 8 th edition Neuroendocrine Tumors of the duodenum and ampulla of Vater ( Table 4a and b ). Table 4 a. TNM Staging of Duodenal Neuroendocrine Tumors (AJCC UICC 8 th edition) View in own window Primary Tumor (T) If the number of tumors is known use T (#), if unavailable or too numerous T(m) e.g., T2( 3 ) or T2(m) TX Tumor cannot be assessed T1 Tumor invades the mucosa or submucosa only and is ≤ 1 cm (duodenal) Tumor ≤ 1 cm and confined within the sphincter of Oddi (ampullary) T2 Tumor invades the muscularis propria or is >1 cm (duodenal). Tumor invades through sphincter into duodenal submucosa or muscularis propria, or is >1 cm (ampullary). T3 Tumor invades the pancreas or peripancreatic adipose tissue T4 Tumor invades the visceral peritoneum (serosa) or other organs Regional lymph Nodes (N) NX Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed N0 No regional lymph node involvement N1 Regional lymph node involvement Distant Metastases (M) M0 No distant metastases M1 Distant metastases M1a Hepatic metastases only M1b Extra-hepatic metastases only M1c Both hepatic and extra-hepatic metastases Table 4b. Stage Grouping View in own window Stage I T1 N0 M0 Stage II T2-3 N0 M0 Stage III T4 N0 M0 Any T N1 M0 Stage IV Any T Any N M1 Non-Functioning Pancreatic NETs In patients with known MEN1, screening is advised for early detection of NF-PanNETs. When NF-PanNETs are diagnosed and there is no immediate indication for intervention, surveillance should be performed at regular intervals to re-evaluate indications for intervention, as well as to detect newly developing dpNETs. Current guidelines suggest to start screening for NF-PanNETs in MEN1 below the age of 10 by a combination of biochemical tests and yearly imaging (either MRI, CT or EUS) ( 2 ). Since the publication of the guidelines, it has become clear that the diagnosis of NF-PanNETs in patients with MEN1 relies heavily on imaging, since tumors markers chromogranin A, pancreatic polypeptide, and glucagon have low accuracy for the diagnosis of NF-PanNETs as summarized in a recent systematic review ( 143 ). Additionally, since the publication
