Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


tumors markers chromogranin A, pancreatic polypeptide, and glucagon have low accuracy for the diagnosis of NF-PanNETs as summarized in a recent systematic review ( 143 ). Additionally, since the publication of the guidelines SSTR-PET-CT has emerged as a high-sensitive diagnostic imaging tool for dpNETs and its role within the screening and surveillance of MEN1-related dpNETs has yet to be determined. There is currently no consensus regarding the best imaging modality and interval for screening and surveillance of MEN1-related NF-PanNETs ( 144 ). In a recent systematic review on the diagnosis of NF-PanNETs in MEN1, it was concluded that for lifelong screening and surveillance CT was probably least suitable given the inferior sensitivity compared to EUS and SSTR-PET-CT in combination with the cumulative exposure to ionizing radiation, although head-to-head comparisons with MRI are not available ( 143 ). This does not mean that a CT scan cannot still be indicated and be the best imaging for specific clinical situations (for example pre-operative imaging). EUS is the most sensitive method for the diagnosis of NF-PanNETs and offers the possibility of obtaining tissue for analysis pre-operatively. However, it is also invasive, operator dependent, clinically significant PanNETs can be missed in the pancreatic tail, and for the diagnosis of NF-PanNETs in MEN1 histological confirmation is usually not necessary given the high pre-test likelihood and the typical appearance on imaging. On the other hand, tissue-based analysis prior to intervention may become more relevant in MEN1 as more novel prognostic factors are identified. MRI has the advantage of performing more homogenously throughout the pancreas and the absence of ionizing radiation although a significant proportion of NF-PanNETs >2 cm is missed. The authors of the systematic review therefore suggest alternate use of EUS and MRI ( 143 ). Given a reported growth rate of 0.1-1.32 mm/year for small NF-PanNETs, if initial screening imaging is negative, the next imaging can be performed with an interval of two to three years, providing no clinical reason for earlier imaging. For prevalent NF-PanNETs without an indication for intervention, the interval for active surveillance imaging should be individualized according to growth rate. Initial repeat imaging should be done after 6-12 months to assess growth rate, but afterwards in small stable NF-PanNETs the interval can be extended to once every 1-2 years. The imaging modality can be either MRI or alternating with EUS. EUS alone should always be combined with an imaging method
