Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


interval can be extended to once every 1-2 years. The imaging modality can be either MRI or alternating with EUS. EUS alone should always be combined with an imaging method for metastases detection, since it does not offer complete abdominal imaging. The exact role of SSTR-PET-CT in the screening and surveillance of MEN1-related NF-PanNETs is still to be determined, however, based on currently available evidence, it is best employed when results may change management such as in prevalent NF-PanNETs >10 mm for early detection of metastases, or as comprehensive staging before planned interventions ( 143 , 145 ). Another dilemma is when to start radiological screening for NF-pNET in children with MEN1. As mentioned before, current guidelines advise initiating screening before the age of 10 ( 2 ). However, others have advocated postponing until the age of 16, in the absence of signs and symptoms ( 37 ). Recently, modeled data from the Dutch population-based MEN1 cohort show that the estimated age at a 1%, 2,5% and 5% risk of having developed a clinically significant NF-PanNET (≥ 20mm or documented growth of ≥1.6 mm within one year above a baseline size of ≥ 15mm) is 9.5, 13.5 and 17.8 years respectively and they conclude that there is medical indication to initiate radiological screening during the second decade of life and that starting between 13-14 years of age is justifiable ( 15 ). It is important to remember that each screening and surveillance schedule should be tailored to the needs of the individual patient in his or her unique circumstances, should be based on well-informed shared decisions making between providers and patients (and parents if applicable), with multidisciplinary team input when necessary. The only curative treatment for NF-PanNETs in MEN1 is surgical resection, and the goal of surgical intervention in NF-PanNETs is to prevent metastases and thereby NF-PanNET-related mortality, while preserving as much pancreatic tissue as possible and limiting treatment-related morbidity and mortality. Although theoretically, total duodenopancreatectomy would prevent metastatic disease altogether, short-term morbidity associated with this complex major surgery is high and the subsequent life-long brittle diabetes that follows rarely justifies such major intervention when balanced against the risk of distant metastases and PanNET-related death. Since the risk of future metastases and disease-related death must be balanced against short- and long-term treatment-related morbidity and mortality, information regarding prognosis in MEN1-related NF-PanNETs is of vital importance to make well-informed decisions regarding
