Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


metastases and disease-related death must be balanced against short- and long-term treatment-related morbidity and mortality, information regarding prognosis in MEN1-related NF-PanNETs is of vital importance to make well-informed decisions regarding timing and extent of intervention. However, presently there is a paucity of prognostic factors on which to base these decisions ( 146 ). The most important factor to date is tumor size, with the risk of (distant) metastases increasing with increased size. Recent data from retrospective cohort studies have shown that small (<2cm) NF-PanNETs generally have an indolent course, that surgical resection of small NF-PanNETs does not seem to offer benefit over active surveillance, and that the risk of metastases and disease-related death is low, albeit not zero ( 124 , 146 - 150 ). Most small NF-PanNETs are stable during follow-up, but there is a subset with progression in size ( 150 ). Generally, size progression is also considered to be a prognostic factor. An important tissue-based prognostic factor is tumor grade, with grade 2 tumors being more often associated with metastases ( 146 ). Grade 3 NF-PanNETs or NECs are rarely seen in patients with MEN1, but are associated with a worse prognosis. More recently, advancements in molecular techniques have identified several potential prognostic biomarkers for NF-PanNETs, mostly in sporadic NF-PanNETs, but limited data in MEN1-related NF-PanNETs is also available. Mutations in alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation X-linked ( ATRX ) and death domain-associated protein ( DAXX ), which lead to the alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) phenotype have been found to be associated with decreased disease-free survival and higher rates of distant metastases ( 146 , 151 ). Mutations in DAXX and ATRX result in loss of nuclear expressions of their proteins by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and ALT can be identified in tissue-samples by telomere-specific fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Next to DAXX/ATRX and ALT, the differential expression of transcription factors aristaless-related homeobox gene ( ARX ) and pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 ( PDX1 ) as assessed by IHC was also found to be associated with risk of metastases ( 152 , 153 ). In patients with MEN1-related NF-PanNETs, one study showed that liver metastases were only seen in ARX+ or ARX-/PDX1- tumors and that ALT positivity was only seen in ARX+ or ARX-/PDX1- tumors and significantly correlated with relapse rate ( 152 ). However, since the publication of these data, a large international cohort of 1322 NETs (not including
