Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


in ARX+ or ARX-/PDX1- tumors and significantly correlated with relapse rate ( 152 ). However, since the publication of these data, a large international cohort of 1322 NETs (not including MEN1-related NETs), was evaluated by immunolabelling for ARX/PDX1, ATRX/DAXX and by telomere-specific FISH for ALT and it was found that ATRX/DAXX and ALT, but not ARX/PDX1 were independent negative prognostic factors ( 151 ). A recent study by Fahrmann, et al. identified a 3-marker polyamine signature that distinguished patients with metastatic dpNETs from controls and which yield an AUC of 0.84 (95% CI: 0.62-1.00) with 66.7% sensitivity at 95% specificity for distinguishing cases form controls in an independent test set ( 154 ). These results form the basis for prospective testing of plasma polyamines as a prognostic factor for MEN1-related dpNETs. Further validation of these molecular markers in MEN1, may also change the role of pre-intervention EUS-guided aspiration or biopsy. So, when to intervene in MEN1-related NF-PanNETs? Presently, these decisions are mostly based on tumor size and growth, with the current guidelines suggesting considering surgical resection in NF-PanNETs >10 mm or those that show significant growth during follow-up (doubling of tumor size over a 3–6-month interval and exceeding 10 mm) ( 2 ). Given the emerging evidence that most NF-PanNETs <20 mm are indolent in nature as described above, a more recent consensus statement states that surgical resection is indicated for NF-PanNETs >20 mm and those that progress during surveillance ( 155 ). Additionally, the presence of suspicious lymph nodes, or a higher grade on EUS-guided aspiration may guide intervention decisions. In all cases these decisions should be made in multidisciplinary teams and in shared decision making with the patient. The extent of resection depends on multiple patient-, tumor- and MEN1-related factors and should be individualized. Gastrinoma Gastrinomas, NETs secreting gastrin, cause the Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (ZES). ZES is a syndrome characterized by tumor-related hypergastrinemia leading to gastric acid hypersecretion. Sign and symptoms of ZES/Gastrinoma are gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD), (proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) responsive) diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, weight loss, and peptic ulcer disease. Complications may arise from the peptic ulcer disease including upper gastro-intestinal bleeding, strictures, and bowel perforation. Before the introduction of PPIs, complications from gastric acid hypersecretion were an important cause of death in patients with MEN1 ( 134 ). With the arrival of proton pump inhibitors, gastric acid hypersecretion can be effectively treated, although higher dosages are
