Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


an important cause of death in patients with MEN1 ( 134 ). With the arrival of proton pump inhibitors, gastric acid hypersecretion can be effectively treated, although higher dosages are needed than for the treatment of non-ZES hyperacidity. The diagnosis of gastrinoma in MEN1 is challenging at present. The gold standard for the diagnosis is the demonstration of inappropriate fasting hypergastrinemia without the use of antisecretory drugs. The diagnosis is established if the fasting serum gastrin (FSG) is more than tenfold the upper limit of normal with a gastric pH of less than two (after ruling out retained antrum) ( 156 , 157 ). When gastric pH is low and FSG is <10-fold upper limit of normal, additional testing is needed to establish the diagnosis, such as a secretin provocative test or measuring basal acid output ( 156 , 157 ). The latter situation occurs in 60% of ZES, and this might even be higher in MEN1, given the early detection through prospective screening programs. Due to unreliable gastrin assays, the limited availability of secretin and therewith the loss of expertise in performing the secretin provocative test, the wide-spread use of PPIs and the risk associated with cessation of PPI for proper testing, the diagnosis of gastrinoma is challenging ( 157 , 158 ). Additionally, the value of non-biochemical tests in the diagnosis of gastrinoma (such as SSTR-PET-CT and EUS/ esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)-guided cytology/biopsy) might also need re-evaluation ( 157 ). Recently experts have therefore suggested possible new criteria for diagnosis of ZES in patients with fasting hypergastrinemia with and without PPI use ( 157 ). Patients with MEN1 are screened for the presence of a gastrinoma by at least annually assessing clinical symptoms and fasting serum gastrin ( 2 ). If a diagnosis of gastrinoma is established or suspected, EGD should be performed to assess the presence of complications of gastric acid hypersecretion, type II gastric NETs, and possibly to identify duodenal gastrinomas. Duodenal gastrinomas in MEN1 are small, but despite their small size 70-80% are metastatic to the regional lymph nodes at the time of diagnosis ( 159 ). However, these regional lymph node metastases do not seem to have a negative impact on overall survival ( 159 ). In MEN1, attributing locoregional lymph nodes to the correct primary dpNET is important for adequate treatment planning and prognostic inferences. It is also challenging however, given that most patients with
