Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


In MEN1, attributing locoregional lymph nodes to the correct primary dpNET is important for adequate treatment planning and prognostic inferences. It is also challenging however, given that most patients with MEN1 and duodenal gastrinoma(s) also have concomitant PanNETs, and the duodenal gastrinoma(s) may not be visible on imaging due to their small size. Hackeng, et al . studied 137 microscopic and macroscopic dpNETs and 36 matched metastases (lymph node and distant) in 10 patients with MEN1 to unravel the relationship between the multiple primary dpNETs in MEN1 and the metastases ( 160 ). They found that most patients had a single NET of origin for their metastases, but multiple metastatic primaries were also seen. In addition, and very important for MEN1-related gastrinomas, in 6 patients with MEN1 and hypergastrinemia, periduodenopancreatic lymph node metastases clustered with minute duodenal gastrinomas and not with larger pancreatic NETs. So a duodenal origin for periduodenopancreatic lymph node metastases in patients with MEN1 and hypergastrinemia should always be considered ( 160 ). Although its role still needs to be delineated, in MEN1-gastrinoma next to EUS/EGD, SSTR-PET-CT may be very useful for staging to visualize duodenal gastrinomas, lymph node metastases, and concomitant PanNETs. Presently, as in other MEN1-related dpNETs, surgery is the only potentially curative treatment. And although MEN1-related ZES has been historically been considered a surgically incurable disease, more recent small studies have shown, that when the correct target organ is addressed, namely the duodenum and not the pancreas, biochemical cure can be achieved after partial pancreaticoduodenectomy(PD), combined with regional lymph node dissection ( 159 ). However, this must be balanced against the risk of peri-operative and long-term complications and loss of quality of life. Overall survival is generally good in duodenum-preserving operations as well, but persistence or recurrence of ZES occurs in 6-100% ( 159 ). Most often, hyperacidity can be adequately controlled with PPIs, making the main goal of surgical resection the prevention of distant metastases and disease-related death. The majority of MEN1-ZES patients with associated small PanNETs have an indolent disease course with excellent overall survival even without surgical intervention ( 161 ). Still, in retrospective studies around a quarter of the patients develop liver metastases and around 15% shows aggressive growth ( 138 ), and presently there are no good markers to predict which patients with MEN1-ZES will have a more aggressive disease course. In a study from the NIH age at
