Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


138 ), and presently there are no good markers to predict which patients with MEN1-ZES will have a more aggressive disease course. In a study from the NIH age at ZES diagnosis (≤33), FSG levels ≥10,000 pg/mL, pancreatic tumors >3 cm, presence of liver/bone metastases and presence of gastric carcinoids were associated with aggressive tumor growth ( 138 ). In a study from the DutchMEN Study Group, overall survival rates of MEN1-gastrinoma were 83% and 65% at 5 and 10 years respectively, which was significantly worse than age- and gender-matched patients without gastrinoma. FSG ≥ 20x upper limit of normal, PanNETs≥ 2cm, synchronous liver metastases, EGD suspicious for gastric NETs, and multiple concurrent NETs were associated with decreased overall survival ( 135 ). A recent study from the French GTE, ZES was independently associated with a higher risk of distant metastases, but did not significantly seem to be associated with decreased overall survival ( 125 ). So presently, if surgical intervention should be performed, when surgical intervention should be performed and how (to what extent) surgical intervention should be performed for gastrinoma in MEN1 are all controversial topics. Treatment of patients in centers of expertise with a highly dedicated multidisciplinary team and experienced surgeons is therefore very important. Treatment decisions for MEN1-ZES should be made after MDT discussion in shared decision making with the patient. As stands to reason, treatment of MEN1-ZES patients with (high-dose) PPI is mandatory and patients should not cease this treatment without consultation with their provider. If specific testing without PPI is needed this needs to be performed under close supervision in centers of expertise. As mentioned in the section on parathyroid tumors, the interplay between pHPT and ZES in MEN1 is important to realize as hypercalcemia can increase gastrin levels. Additionally, a recent paper on the Tasmanian MEN1 cohort showed an association between H. pylori seropositivity and hypergastrinemia and severe ZES-range hypergastrinemia. Further work is needed to fully elucidate this relationship, but testing for H. Pylori and eradication if positive might be consider in patients with MEN1-ZES ( 162 ). Insulinoma As already stated, MEN1-related insulinomas occur at a young age and are the most frequent functional PanNET at the pediatric age. Early recognition of signs and symptoms of insulinoma is of extreme importance in both children and adults. Signs and symptoms may be erroneously attributed to epilepsy or behavioral or neurological disorders, especially if
