Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


signs and symptoms of insulinoma is of extreme importance in both children and adults. Signs and symptoms may be erroneously attributed to epilepsy or behavioral or neurological disorders, especially if insulinoma is the presenting manifestation of MEN1 in an index case. In children this can lead to decline in school performance and in children and adults alike episodes of hypoglycemia can lead to accidents or irrational behavior. As insulinomas secrete insulin inappropriately and lead to hypoglycemia the signs and symptoms are those of hypoglycemia; both adrenergic symptoms (such as fast heartbeat, jitteriness/shakiness, sweating and pale skin) as well as neuroglycopenic symptoms (such as mental status changes and irritability). Symptoms are relieved with food (glucose) intake. They usually occur during fasting, before meals or after exercise, but can occasionally occur at other times. In patients fulfilling Whipple’s triad (symptoms and/ or signs consistent with hypoglycemia, a low plasma glucose concentration, and resolution of symptoms/signs after plasma glucose concentration is raised) diagnosis can be established by a supervised fast ( 163 ). In patients with MEN1, screening for insulinoma is advised from the age of five by careful history taking and measurement of fasting insulin and – more importantly – glucose ( 2 ). However, almost all patients with MEN1 and insulinoma are symptomatic, therefore the history is probably the most important element. When the diagnosis of insulinoma is made, localization in MEN1 can be challenging, if there are multiple PanNETs. These usually are concomitant NF-PanNETs, since in surgical series multiple insulin-positive PanNETs in patients operated for insulinoma were seen in 8-40% ( 132 , 164 - 166 ). For MEN1-related insulinoma, especially if conventional imaging shows multiple PanNETs and correctly identifying the insulinoma(s) among them would change surgical strategy, 86 Ga-Exendin-4 PET-CT is very promising. Although there is limited data in MEN1 patients, a recent meta-analysis showed a positive predictive value (PPV) of 94%, with a negative predictive value (NPV) of 67%; In MEN1 PPV was 95% with NPV 96%, although based on a limited number of patients ( 167 , 168 ). Surgical resection is the treatment of choice for MEN1-related insulinomas and is associated with a high cure rate. In a retrospective cohort study of 40 European and 6 North-American institutes 92 patients with MEN1-related insulinomas who underwent surgical resection were followed for a median of 8 years after surgery ( 132 ). Overall, after different surgical procedures, only
