Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


North-American institutes 92 patients with MEN1-related insulinomas who underwent surgical resection were followed for a median of 8 years after surgery ( 132 ). Overall, after different surgical procedures, only 1 patient had persistence of hypoglycemia and six had recurrent hypoglycemia, four due to new primaries and 2 due to development of liver metastases, leading to a 10-year hypoglycemia-free survival of 91% (95% CI 80-96). For those with unifocal insulinoma based on pre- and intra-operative assessment (n=63), 1/46 (2.2%) undergoing pancreas resection had persistent disease, while among those who underwent enucleation 1/17 (6%) had recurrence of hypoglycemia based on a new primary insulinoma. For those with multifocal insulinoma (n=33), of whom 30 underwent pancreatic resection, mostly distal pancreatic resection, and three had multiple enucleations, 15% had recurrent hypoglycemia (9% based on new primaries and 6% based on liver metastases) ( 132 ). Therefore, given the better outcomes of pancreatic function over the long-term and young age of the patients, if surgically feasible, enucleation seems the better option for solitary insulinomas in MEN1, provided of course that concomitant functional and non-functional tumors do not make a different strategy necessary ( 132 ). Among MEN1-related dpNETs, insulinomas have the best oncological prognosis ( 26 , 125 , 169 ). Data from the international MEN1 Insulinoma Study Group and the DutchMEN Study Group show that for surgically resected insulinomas 10-yr liver-metastases free survival was 87% (72-91%) ( 169 ). Malignant insulinoma is rare, both in sporadic and MEN1-related insulinoma. In the two largest MEN1-insulinoma cohorts synchronous liver metastases were seen in 3.8-8.1% and metachronous liver metastases in 0-2.2% after a median follow-up of 8-9 years ( 132 , 165 ). Rare Functional dpNETS Functional dpNETs besides gastrinomas and insulinomas, are rare in MEN1 and are seen in <1% of patients with dpNETs( 2 ). These include PanNETs producing vaso-active intestinal peptide (VIPoma), somatostatin, glucagon and other (ectopic) hormones such as growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH), calcitonin, or PTH-related peptide (PTHrP). A rare functional tumor is considered if there are elevated hormone levels in conjunction with a fitting clinical syndrome. Without a clinical syndrome, tumors are not considered functional but merely hypersecreting. This is relevant as for example glucagon can be elevated in patients with MEN1 and PanNETs without the patient having the glucagonoma syndrome. VIPomas lead to watery diarrhea, hypokalemia, achlorhydria and dehydration, the somatostatinoma syndrome consists of diabetes mellitus, diarrhea, steatorrhea and
