Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


with MEN1 and PanNETs without the patient having the glucagonoma syndrome. VIPomas lead to watery diarrhea, hypokalemia, achlorhydria and dehydration, the somatostatinoma syndrome consists of diabetes mellitus, diarrhea, steatorrhea and cholelithiasis, while glucagonomas give rise to necrolytic migratory erythema, diabetes mellitus, and weight loss. Tumors producing GHRH, calcitonin, and PTHrP lead to acromegaly, diarrhea and hypercalcemia, respectively. In these rare functional dpNETs without synchronous distant metastases surgery is generally indicated. Non-Surgical Treatments of Non-Metastatic dpNETs in MEN1 Although for most non-metastatic functional dpNETs in MEN1 surgery is indicated, there may be a (temporary) need to control the hormonal syndrome medically. As such gastrinomas are treated with high-dose PPI, insulinomas with diazoxide or frequent feedings and in all cases somatostatin analogues might be considered if needed to control the functional syndrome. Local resection of sporadic small dNETs is increasingly considered as an alternative to surgery ( 170 ), and current European Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (ENETS) guidelines recommend endoscopic management for dNETs ≤ 10mm in size, confined to the submucosal layer and without lymph node and distant metastases ( 171 ). However, since in MEN1 dNETs are usually multiple, may grow beyond the submucosa and, in case of gastrinomas, are associated with lymph nodes in up to 80% of the cases, this is not generally recommended ( 159 ). Similarly, for PanNETs EUS-guided intervention using ethanol or radio-frequent ablation has been reported in around 80 and 70 cases respectively in the literature, with only a handful procedures performed in patients with MEN1 ( 172 ). Whether or not interventional EUS may play a role in treatment of MEN1-related PanNETs is therefore unclear at the present time. There is much interest in chemoprevention in small NF-PanNETs using somatostatin analogues (SSA). SSA have proven anti-proliferative effect in advanced PanNETs ( 173 , 174 ) and the question has been raised if SSA may be used to prevent progression and metastases of small NF-PanNETs in patients with MEN1. In mouse models of Men1 PanNET lanreotide and pasireotide showed the ability to decrease tumor proliferation. In a retrospective non-controlled study of 20 patients with small NF-PanNETs who received long-acting octreotide for 12-75 months 10% had an objective tumor response, 80% stable disease, and 10% showed progression ( 175 ). In another small (n=8) prospective series patients with small NF-PanNETs were treated with SSA for up to 72 months, with stable disease in all, however again without
