Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


( 175 ). In another small (n=8) prospective series patients with small NF-PanNETs were treated with SSA for up to 72 months, with stable disease in all, however again without a control group ( 176 ). In a recent observational cohort study lanreotide was compared with standard of care active surveillance in n=42 patients with pNETs <2 cm (N=23 lanreotide vs n=19 active surveillance) during a median follow-up of 6 years ( 177 ). The study showed improved RECIST-defined progression-free survival (PFS) in the lanreotide group. In both groups however, one patient developed distant (liver) metastases ( 177 ). Limitations include sample size, non-experimental and therefore non-randomized design, and non-blinded outcome evaluation. In addition, improved RECIST PFS is not yet known to predict longer overall survival for MEN1 patients with small NF-PanNETs. Ideally this is further evaluated in a randomized double-blind trial. The most important challenge in the design of such a study however, is the definition of appropriate surrogate endpoint for distant metastases and overall survival ( 144 ). Metastatic dpNET in MEN1 The treatment of stage IV dpNET in patients with MEN1 is similar to that of patients with sporadic dpNETs( 178 ). There is very limited evidence regarding MEN1-specific outcome data, and from the limited evidence available there seems to be no difference with sporadic NETs. In landmark studies leading to approval of lanreotide ( 173 ), everolimus ( 179 ), sunitinib ( 180 ) and peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PPRT) ( 181 ), patients with MEN1 were either excluded, only single cases included or MEN1-status was not mentioned ( 182 ). With the advancing molecular understanding of MEN1-related NETs, MEN1-specific targeted therapies might be possible in the future, which in turn might benefit the almost 50% MEN1-mutated sporadic PanNETs ( 182 ). Gastric NETs in MEN1 (Type II Gastric NETs) NETs of the stomach ( Figure 1 ), formerly called gastric carcinoids or carcinoids of the stomach, are classified into three different types( 171 ): Type I, associated with atrophic gastritis Type II, associated with MEN1/ZES Type III, without associated conditions Gastric NETs are graded according to the latest WHO classification of digestive system tumors (2019, 5 th edition) as described above for dpNETs ( Table 2 ) ( 142 ). TNM staging is shown in Table 5a and b . Table 5 a. TNM Staging of Neuroendocrine Tumors of the Stomach (AJCC UICC 8th edition)
