Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


2 ) ( 142 ). TNM staging is shown in Table 5a and b . Table 5 a. TNM Staging of Neuroendocrine Tumors of the Stomach (AJCC UICC 8th edition) View in own window Primary Tumor (T) For any T, add (m) for multiple tumors, for multiple tumors with different Ts, use the highest (e.g., if three tumors’ sizes 0.5, 0.5, and 1.5 cm, T stage should be T2(m). TX Tumor cannot be assessed T0 No evidence of primary tumor T1 Invades lamina propria or submucosa and ≤ 1 cm T2 Invades muscularis propria or >1cm T3 Invades through the muscularis propria into subserosal tissue without penetration of overlying serosa T4 Invades visceral peritoneum (serosal) or other organs or adjacent structures Regional lymph Nodes (N) NX Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed N0 No regional lymph node involvement N1 Regional lymph node involvement Distant Metastases (M) M0 No distant metastases M1 Distant metastases M1a Hepatic metastases only M1b Extra-hepatic metastases only M1c Both hepatic and extra-hepatic metastases Table 5b. Stage Grouping View in own window Stage I T1 N0 M0 Stage II T2-3 N0 M0 Stage III T4 N0 M0 Any T N1 M0 Stage IV Any T Any N M1 Gastric NETs are tumors of the gastric entero-chromaffin like (ECL) cells, which develop in MEN1 due to the trophic effect of gastrin on ECL-cells combined with the predisposing germline MEN1 mutation. Both components seem to be necessary for the development of gastric NETs in patients with MEN1. Gastric NETs are rarely seen in sporadic ZES patients and loss of heterogeneity was demonstrated in 75% of MEN1-related gastric NETs ( 183 , 184 ), while in patients with MEN1 gastric NETs occur almost exclusively in patients with gastrinoma and regression of gastric NETs has been reported after normalization of hypergastrinemia ( 185 , 186 ). ECL-cell hyperplasia is considered a precursor lesion for gastric NETs ( 187 ). In the NIH-ZES cohort, 57 patients were extensively studied for gastric ECL-cell changes. All of the patients were found to have proliferative ECL-cell changes, with advanced changes in 53% and gastric NETs in 23% ( 188 ). More recently, data on ECL-cell changes in patients with MEN1 was reported from the Marburg MEN1 database ( 185 ). They reported on 38 MEN1 patients who underwent regular screening including EGD, regardless of gastrinoma status. Sixteen of these patients had a gastrinoma diagnosis, 13
