Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


MEN1 database ( 185 ). They reported on 38 MEN1 patients who underwent regular screening including EGD, regardless of gastrinoma status. Sixteen of these patients had a gastrinoma diagnosis, 13 of whom had biochemical ZES at the time of first EGD. They found that ECL-changes and gastric NETs were exclusively seen in patients with MEN1-gastrinoma albeit in a lower percentage than in the NIH. They found ECL hyperplasia in 62.5% of patients with a gastrinoma diagnosis, versus 0% in those without gastrinoma. No advanced ECL-cell changes were seen and gastric NETs were found in 12.5% of patients with a gastrinoma diagnosis ( 185 ). These differences might also reflect practice changes with earlier gastrinoma diagnosis due to screening and surveillance and more frequent surgical treatment of gastrinoma in the Marburg cohort compared to the NIH cohort. In the NIH cohort, higher levels of FSG as well as longer duration of ZES were associated with a higher risk of advanced ECL-cells changes and gastric NETs ( 188 ). Higher levels of FSG as risk factor could not be confirmed in the Marburg cohort, however numbers of MEN1-ZES were small ( 185 ). As mentioned above, in the section on gastrinoma, the presence of gastric NETs in patients with MEN1-ZES was associated with a more aggressive disease course ( 138 ) and decreased overall survival ( 135 ). Therefore, in the current MEN1 Clinical Practice Guidelines, EGD with biopsy, is recommend every 3 years in patients with MEN1 and hypergastrinemia. Although treatment of MEN1-related gastric NETs is not well established ( 2 , 171 ), the guideline suggest that lesions <10 mm may remain under endoscopic surveillance, while larger tumors require endoscopic resection or local resection, which is analogue to the treatment of type I gastric NETs ( 2 , 171 ). The prognosis of MEN1-related gastric NETs is generally good, with metastases (regional and distant) reported in 10-30% and disease-related death <10% ( 171 ). Nevertheless, aggressive symptomatic and metastatic cases leading to mortality have been reported ( 189 , 190 ). Conclusion In conclusion, dpNETs are highly prevalent in patients with MEN1 reaching a more than 80% penetrance at the age of 80. NF-PanNETs are most frequently seen, followed by gastrinomas and insulinomas. Most MEN1-related dpNETs are diagnosed at an early stage and NF-PanNETs <2 cm generally have an indolent course. However, distant metastatic dpNETs (mostly NF-PanNETs and gastrinoma) are
