Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


gastrinomas and insulinomas. Most MEN1-related dpNETs are diagnosed at an early stage and NF-PanNETs <2 cm generally have an indolent course. However, distant metastatic dpNETs (mostly NF-PanNETs and gastrinoma) are the most important cause of MEN1-related mortality. Treatment goals for MEN1-related dpNETs are therefore to prevent metastatic disease, cure hormonal hypersecretion, and prevent complication from hormonal hypersecretion, while minimizing treatment-related complications and preserving Quality of Life. Surgical resection is the mainstay for treatment, and is indicated in non-gastrinoma functional PanNETs and NF-PanNETs >2cm or with progression during follow-up. No consensus exists on the surgical treatment of MEN1-related gastrinoma. With increasing awareness of MEN1, increasingly refined and defined screening and surveillance programs, and increasing sensitive imaging modalities, MEN1-related dpNETs are detected at earlier stage and more indolent small dpNETs are seen. The main challenge at this point is therefore identifying those patients who are at risk for a more aggressive disease course and distant metastases to be able to offer those patients close follow-up schedules and earlier and more aggressive treatment, while limiting treatment-related morbidity in patients with low risk. Novel prognostic indicators are therefore needed, ideally blood-based, so minimal invasive assessment is possible. Other future directions are the investigation of chemoprevention in small NF-PanNETs. Gastric NETs in MEN1 are almost exclusively seen in patients with gastrinoma and usually have an indolent course. Screening with EGD should be performed in all patients with MEN1-ZES. THORACIC NEUROENDOCRINE TUMORS General Thoracic NETs occurring as part of the MEN1 syndrome are thymic (thNET) and bronchopulmonary NETs (bpNET) ( Figure 1 ), although recently it was suggested that thymomas may also be part of the MEN1-related tumor spectrum ( 191 ). These tumors are not considered main disease-defining manifestations. As in other MEN1-related tumors, loss of heterogeneity (LOH) at the MEN1 locus was demonstrated in bpNETs in patients with MEN1 ( 97 ). This in contrast to thymic NETs, where until recently no LOH at the MEN1 locus was found. However, in a recent publication by the NIH, LOH was seen at the MEN1 locus in both MEN1-related thymic NETs (8 out of 12) and two (out of two) thymomas in patients with MEN1 ( 191 ). MEN1 is also the most frequently mutated gene in sporadic well-differentiated bpNETs, this is not described in thymus NET ( 192 ). However, approximately 25% of patients with thNET have germline mutations in MEN1, therefore it is very
