Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


in sporadic well-differentiated bpNETs, this is not described in thymus NET ( 192 ). However, approximately 25% of patients with thNET have germline mutations in MEN1, therefore it is very important to consider the diagnosis of MEN1 in patients presenting with a sporadic thNET ( 193 ). Thymic and bronchopulmonary NETs in MEN1 generally develop in adults. In pediatric and adolescent series (age up to 21, 31 in one series), there is only one reported case of thNET (diagnosed at age 16) and two cases of bpNET (diagnosed at age 15 and 20 respectively) ( 37 , 46 - 48 ). Staging and Grading bpNET and thNET are classified according to the WHO classification ( Table 6 ). TNM staging for thymicNETs is shown in Table 7a and b . TNM staging of bronchopulmonary NETs follows the same classification as bronchogenic lung carcinomas ( Table 8a and b ). Table 6. WHO Classification of Bronchopulmonary and Thymic Neuroendocrine Tumors View in own window Classification Mitotic Rate and Necrosis Well-differentiated Typical Carcinoid, NET G1 Mitotic rate <2 and absence of necrosis Atypical Carcinoid, NET G2 Mitotic rate 2-10 and/or presence of necrosis Poorly differentiated Neuro-endocrine carcinomas Small-cell type Large-cell type Mitotic rate >10 Table 7. Staging of Thymic Neuroendocrine Tumors (AJCC UICC 8th edition) View in own window Primary Tumor (T) TX Tumor cannot be assessed T0 No evidence of primary tumor T1 T1a T1b Tumor encapsulated or extending into the mediastinal fat; may involve the mediastinal pleura Tumor with no mediastinal pleura involvement Tumor with direct invasion of mediastinal pleura T2 Tumor with direct invasion of the pericardium (either partial or full thickness) T3 Tumor with direct invasion into any of the following: Lung, brachiocephalic vein, superior vena cava, phrenic nerve, chest wall, or extrapericardial pulmonary artery or veins T4 Tumor with invasion into any of the following: Aorta (ascending, arch, or descending), arch vessels, intrapericardial pulmonary artery, myocardium, trachea, esophagus Regional lymph Nodes (N) NX Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed N0 No regional lymph node involvement N1 Metastasis in anterior (perithymic) lymph nodes N2 Metastasis in deep intrathoracic or cervical lymph nodes Distant Metastases (M) M0 No pleural, pericardial, or distant metastasis M1 Pleural, pericardial, or distant metastasis M1a Separate pleural or pericardial nodule(s) M1b Pulmonary intraparenchymal nodule or distant organ metastasis Table 7b. Stage Grouping. View in own window Stage I T1 N0 M0 Stage II T2
