Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


, 204 , 206 , 207 ). Likewise, genotype (the type of mutation) or smoking status does not seem to influence the development of bpNET in MEN1 patients ( 204 , 206 , 207 ). Only a minority of patients experience symptoms (dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis), which explains the high rate of bpNET (77–100%) diagnosed through periodic thoracic imaging surveillance ( 195 , 206 , 207 ). Growth analysis of lung lesions highly suspect of bpNET have demonstrated their overall indolent course, illustrated by a tumor doubling time of ±12 years at long-term follow-up in a Dutch national cohort study ( 204 ). However, a very small number of lesions showed sudden aggressive tumor growth. Unfortunately, no prognostic factors for tumor growth have been identified to date. The vast majority of MEN1-related bpNETs are well-differentiated NETs (typical and atypical carcinoids); only five cases of poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas have been identified in MEN1 patients until now, all in the French Groupe d’étude des Tumeurs Endocrines (GTE) cohort ( 206 ). Considering the large cohort size (n=1023 MEN1 patients), long-term follow-up, high frequency of smokers and lack of molecular analyses confirming a causal relationship with the MEN1 syndrome, a sporadic coincidental occurrence of neuroendocrine carcinomas in MEN1 patients might also be a possible explanation for the manifestation of these carcinomas in this particular study. The overall benign histopathological characteristics of MEN1-related bpNET may explain their usually good prognosis: large cohort studies have shown that bpNETs do not significantly affect survival in MEN1 patients ( 204 , 206 ), although a few (eight) aggressive cases with fatal outcome have been described ( 206 , 207 ). A recent comparison between patients with MEN1-related and sporadic bpNET with comparable histopathological features showed a significantly higher disease-specific mortality in sporadic bpNET, however this has not yet been confirmed in other cohorts ( 208 ). Data from the largest cohort of histologically proven bpNETs in MEN1 patients (n=51) suggested that patients with distant metastasis at diagnosis and non-operated patients had a significantly worse survival ( 206 ). Additionally, females, patients with a typical carcinoid (compared to atypical carcinoid) and those without lymph node involvement tended to have a better survival (p=0.07, p=0.08 and p=0.08, respectively ( 206 ). However, the most recent Dutch cohort study could not find any prognostic factors ( 204 ). Surgical resection is considered the first treatment of choice, and should be
