Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


206 ). However, the most recent Dutch cohort study could not find any prognostic factors ( 204 ). Surgical resection is considered the first treatment of choice, and should be done as lung-sparing as possible, including considering endobronchial resection if feasible ( 2 , 203 ). Given their usually indolent course, watch-and-wait policy may be considered in patients with small, non-central, slow-growing lesions ( 203 ). Parallel to treatment regimens in sporadic bpNET, additional radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy could be used in case of persistent or metastasized disease, although data on the effect of these regimens in aggressive MEN1-related bpNET is very limited. Surveillance Current clinical guidelines recommend thoracic imaging (CT or MRI) every 1-2 years for detection of thymic and bronchopulmonary NETs ( 2 ). The optimal imaging modality still remains to be elucidated, although CT scans are used in the far majority of cases. A direct comparison between MRI and CT scans among MEN1 patients is lacking, and the role of nuclear imaging in screening programs for thoracic NETs has to be determined yet ( 209 - 212 ). Furthermore, the frequency of periodic surveillance is subject of debate; on one hand, the overall indolent course of bpNET and rareness of thNET might argue for less frequent screening – thereby diminishing radiation exposure, physical and psychological distress for patients, and health care costs –, but the lack of predictors for (sudden) aggressive tumor growth in bpNET and the aggressive nature of thNET plead for frequent thoracic imaging in order to enable timely intervention if necessary. Therefore, treating physicians should inform their patients about the benefits and disadvantages of a strict surveillance program, in order to come to a personalized surveillance strategy based on shared decision-making. ADRENAL TUMORS Adrenal involvement ( Figure 1 ) is frequently seen in patients with MEN1 and considered to be part of the syndrome though not one of the cardinal manifestations. Mice with heterozygous inactivation of the Men1 gene develop adrenocortical lesions to a greater proportion than Men1 wild-type controls ( 213 , 214 ) and the adrenal tumors show loss of heterogeneity (LOH) and loss of menin staining. In humans with MEN1, LOH is rarely seen in benign adrenocortical tumors ( 215 - 217 ). It has been hypothesized that the development of adrenal tumors in MEN1 might be related to PanNETs and hyperinsulinemia, because in some cohorts an association was seen between the
