Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


or sex-steroid producing. In sporadic ACC, MEN1 is considered one of the driver genes ( 234 ). Pheochromocytoma Pheochromocytoma is one of the hallmark conditions of Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 2 (MEN2), caused by germline mutations in the RET oncogene. In MEN1, the occurrence of pheochromocytoma is rare, with a 2020 case report and review of literature describing 20 published cases ( 235 ). The authors identified LOH at the MEN1 locus in the resected pheochromocytoma of the patient they report ( 235 ), and in another published series, two resected pheochromocytomas from patients with MEN1 were examined and LOH at the MEN1 locus was found in both, with one having absent menin staining and one weak menin staining ( 236 ). Screening, Treatment and Follow-up In patients with MEN1, minimal recommended screening for adrenal lesions as per the current guidelines, is abdominal imaging with CT or MRI every 3 years for those without adrenal lesions ( 2 ). Since abdominal imaging is also performed to screen for and/or surveille pancreatic lesions this can often be combined. However, care should be taken that the adrenals are properly imaged in the right phase to not only judge their size but also, should a lesion be present, to judge its characteristics. The preponderance to develop adrenal lesions should be mentioned in the clinical information to the radiologist and the images should be read by a radiologist experienced in adrenal imaging. If an adrenal lesion is identified hormonal screening is recommended if patients are symptomatic or lesions are >1 cm ( 2 ). The current guidelines recommend that screening be focused on hyperaldosteronism and hypercortisolism ( 2 ), but given that pheochromocytomas do occur in MEN1 as described above and the consequence of missing the diagnosis can be serious, it is prudent to screen for the presence of a pheochromocytoma by either plasma free (nor)metanephrines or urinary fractionated (nor)metanephrines. Indications for surgical resection parallel those of adrenal incidentalomas, being clinically significant hormone excess and/or concerns about malignancy either due to atypical characteristics on imaging, size (>4 cm), or significant growth over a 6-month period, which in the adrenal incidentaloma guidelines is suggested as increase in 20% (in addition to at least 5mm increase in actual size) ( 2 , 237 ). Given the reports of ACCs in MEN1 arising from initially small lesions, some authors recommend to use a size cut-off of 3
