Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


CANCER AND MEN1 A higher incidence of breast cancer ( Figure 1 ) was found in four independent MEN1 cohorts in the Netherlands, France, Tasmania and the United States. In the Dutch cohort a relative risk of 2.83 was found, which was significantly higher than in the general Dutch population ( 3 ). The median age for breast cancer was 45 years, which is approximately 15 years younger than the general Dutch population. The increased risk for breast cancer for MEN1 carriers was not associated with other breast cancer risk factors or a familial breast cancer risk. Considering the younger age of breast cancer occurrence and an earlier age of breast cancer, surveillance should be considered. Breast cancer surveillance from the age of 40 is initiated in the Dutch MEN1 cohort ( 4 ). After the latter publication, several cases of early breast cancer in MEN1 patients were reported ( 246 - 249 ). These epidemiological findings are supported by basic research. Loss-of-function Men1 mouse models have shown an increased incidence of both in situ and invasive mammary cancer ( 250 ). Menin, the tumor suppressor protein encoded by MEN1, is co-localized with the estrogen receptor (ER) alfa in breast cancer cells. In this manner, menin functions as a direct activator of Erα ( 251 ). In sporadic ER-positive breast cancer, menin seems to have a proliferative role, which is in contrast with breast cancer in MEN1 carriers, in whom LOH of the MEN1 gene could be found ( 3 , 252 ). Recent studies showed that reduced menin staining is associated with ER-negative breast cancer and in ER-positive breast cancer with larger tumors, higher grade tumor, and luminal subtypes tumors. Providing further evidence that there is an important role of menin in ERα regulation and the breast cancer formation ( 253 ). PSYCHOSOCIAL ASPECTS Recently there has been more interest in the psychosocial wellbeing of patients with MEN1 ( 254 - 259 ).The first study was published in 2003, which showed that psychosocial outcomes such as anxiety, depression, intrusion, and avoidance are not altered by the hospital or home setting. A higher burden of disease led to more depression. Compared to the population-based norm values, patients with MEN1 scored lower for General Health and Social Functioning according to the SF-36 ( 260 ). Postoperatively, quality of life (QOL) scores did not differ after pancreaticoduodenal surgery in MEN1 patients in
