Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
KEYWORDS: patients, pubmed, endocrine, multiple, type, tumors, multiple endocrine, neoplasia, endocrine neoplasia, related, neoplasia type, clinical, tumor, free, article


lower for General Health and Social Functioning according to the SF-36 ( 260 ). Postoperatively, quality of life (QOL) scores did not differ after pancreaticoduodenal surgery in MEN1 patients in comparison with the general population. Financial difficulties caused by the treatment were significantly worse in MEN1 patients ( 261 ). Financial burden seems to be associated with having MEN1. The degree of financial burden has a linear relationship with worse health-related QOL. Patients were three-times more likely to be unemployed in comparison with the US population ( 256 ). The largest QOL-related study showed that employment status was the most consistent predictor for QOL. This is in line with the former studies. The health-related QOL according to the SF-36 was significantly lower for patients with MEN1 on all subscales except for the physical functioning scale. Patients who are aware of their PA and PanNET have worse QOL scores in comparison with patients who are not aware of having these tumors( 259 ). The degree of fear of disease recurrence is high in patients with MEN1. This fear is negatively associated with health-related QOL and is higher in patients who consider themselves at high risk for developing a MEN1-related tumor. More MEN1-related manifestations lead to more fear of disease occurrence ( 258 ). In comparison with other chronic diseases MEN1 scores worse regarding anxiety, depression and fatigue ( 257 ). QOL did not overly differ from the general population in the Italian cohort ( 255 ) and patients were more optimistic than in the Swedish cohort ( 260 ). This could be due to cultural differences, population selection, and awareness of the disease and its implications. The high response rate in the MEN1 population illustrates the motivation of patients to participate in research and care about their wellbeing ( 259 , 260 ). CONCLUSION In conclusion, in the past decades there have been great advances in the understanding of the natural course of MEN1-related tumors, which has had direct consequences on clinical care. In the coming decade one of the main research objectives will be the identification of individual predictors of disease course which can guide personalized treatment and surveillance. Increasing international collaborations will enable prospective studies. Given the complexity of the disease, it is strongly advised that patients, whenever possible, be followed and treated in centers of expertise. If this is not feasible, consultation with a center of expertise should
