CASE REPORT
KEYWORDS: violaceum, cid, cid cid, chromobacterium, chromobacterium violaceum, infection, case, blood, med, organism, cases, cultures, kong, hong kong, hong


examination revealed epigastric tenderness without peritonism. Within 30 minutes, his vital signs began to deteriorate with his blood pressure dropping to 70/40 mm Hg. Repeated blood analysis showed a pancytopenia and renal impairment (Table). Arterial blood gas analysis showed severe metabolic intensive care unit for further management. Computed tomography demonstrated Kong: Department of Surgery multiple hypodensities ranging from a few mm to 1.5 cm in both lobes of the liver. AYB Teoh, MB, ChB, MRCS There was no free gas or fluid within the abdominal cavity (Fig 1). KY Ngo, MB, ChB J Wong, MB, ChB, FRCS (Edin) Reassessment of the initial right forearm wound revealed a more severe KF Lee, MB, BS, FRCS (Edin) PBS Lai, MB, ChB, FRCS (Edin) proximal spreading cellulitis involving the right arm, associated with right Department of Microbiology axillary lymphadenopathy. A gram stain of the blood cultures identified gram- M Hui, MRCPath, FHKAM (Pathology) negative bacilli. Intravenous antibiotics (ampicillin and cloxacillin) were switched to ciprofloxacin, metronidazole, and cefotaxime. His condition continued to Correspondence to: Dr PBS Lai (e-mail: ) deteriorate despite fluid resuscitation and escalating inotropic support. He Chromobacterium violaceum infection Table. Results of blood tests for case 1 Blood test Results Reference range/level Haemoglobin (g/L) 118 134-172 Platelet count (x 109 /L) 49 152-358 White cell count (x 109 /L) 0.7 3.9-10.7 Urea (mmol/L) 16 3.4-8.9 Creatinine (µmol/L) 324 44-80 Bilirubin (IU/L) 31 <15 Alkaline phosphatase (IU/L) 28 30-80 Alanine transferase (IU/L) 263 <58 succumbed to multi-organ failure secondary to uncontrolled sepsis less than 24 hours after admission. Chromobacterium violaceum was subsequently isolated from cultures taken from the right forearm abscess, from blood cultures taken on the day of admission and from autopsy spleen cultures. Fig 1. Computed tomographic scan of abdomen showing The same organism was also cultured from water samples multiple hypodense foci ranging from a few mm to 1.5 cm in taken from a pond at the campsite. both lobes of the liver Case 2 A 64-year-old man was admitted in June 1997 with a 10- surgical department for management of multiple trauma day history of progressive limb weakness. Magnetic following a fall from 30 m. In view of unstable vital signs resonance imaging of the cervical spine showed severe and a massive haemothorax, emergency operative stenosis of the C3/4 and 6/7 regions with evidence of cord exploration was performed. On median sternotomy, an compression. Cervical laminoplasty was performed from
