CASE REPORT
KEYWORDS: violaceum, cid, cid cid, chromobacterium, chromobacterium violaceum, infection, case, blood, med, organism, cases, cultures, kong, hong kong, hong


and a massive haemothorax, emergency operative stenosis of the C3/4 and 6/7 regions with evidence of cord exploration was performed. On median sternotomy, an compression. Cervical laminoplasty was performed from 8-cm lower lobe rupture was identified in the right lung. C3 to C7. His postoperative course was complicated by Intra-abdominally, there was an expanding zone-one pneumonia and respiratory failure necessitating intubation haematoma that required exploration and haemostasis, and admission to the intensive care unit. Tracheal aspirates and a zone-three haematoma that was treated conservatively. for culture yielded a positive growth of methicillin- He also sustained other injuries including fractures of the resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Acinetobacter petrous temporal bone, skull base, pelvis, and T10 to L2 species, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The initial spinous processes. Postoperatively he was managed in antibiotic regimen included intravenous ceftazidime, the intensive care unit for 21 days and during this time he netilmicin, imipenem, and vancomycin for 2 weeks, developed persistent sepsis. Blood cultures were positive according to the sensitivity of the isolated organisms. for MRSA. Tracheal aspirates yielded a heavy growth of C violaceum and S aureus. Sepsis was controlled with a course Despite this, the patient continued to have persistent of vancomycin and piperacillin/tazobactam (Tazocin; Wyeth, sepsis. All antibiotics were stopped and the sepsis workup Carolina, US). He was discharged to a convalescent hospi- repeated. The femoral line was also removed and sent tal for further rehabilitation after 1 month’s hospitalisation. for culture. A chest X-ray showed improving consolidation of the lungs and computed tomography of the neck revealed Discussion no evidence of postoperative infection. Blood and femoral line tip cultures grew C violaceum and Acinetobacter species. Chromobacterium violaceum is a motile, facultative All lines were changed and intravenous ceftazidime and anaerobic, gram-negative bacillus. It is now believed amikacin were commenced. to be the only species in the genus. The organism inhabits soil and water, especially in tropical and subtropical areas. Unfortunately, sepsis persisted and necessitated further It grows readily on commonly used laboratory media septic workups and antibiotic changes. Strains of C such as sheep blood agar, MacConkey agar, and nutrient violaceum continued to be isolated from blood cultures agar. Most strains produce a characteristic deep purple taken 1 month after the initial culture. Antibiotics given pigment, violacein, hence its name (Fig 2). Non-pigmented according to bacterial sensitivities during that period strains showing similar virulence and pathogenicity have included ciprofloxacin, sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim, been identified
