CASE REPORT
KEYWORDS: violaceum, cid, cid cid, chromobacterium, chromobacterium violaceum, infection, case, blood, med, organism, cases, cultures, kong, hong kong, hong


culture. Antibiotics given pigment, violacein, hence its name (Fig 2). Non-pigmented according to bacterial sensitivities during that period strains showing similar virulence and pathogenicity have included ciprofloxacin, sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim, been identified in the past. Hence, Sivendra and Tan3 imipenem, and vancomycin. The patient continued to have stressed the importance of not using violet pigmenta- deteriorate and finally succumbed to multi-organ failure tion as the sole criterion for separating C violaceum from secondary to uncontrolled sepsis 3 months following other gram-negative bacteria, in particular Aeromonas spp cervical laminoplasty. and Vibrio spp, to avoid misdiagnosis and confusion. Chromobacterium violaceum also produces catalase, nitrate Case 3 reductase, and arginine dihydrolase.4,5 Separation from In September 2002, a 23-year-old man was admitted to the Pseudomonas spp and Aeromonas spp can be done using a Hong Kong Med J Vol 12 No 3 June 2006 229 Teoh et al rarely reported.16 Other presentations include conjunctivitis, pneumonia, diarrhoea, urinary tract infection, and meningitis.2,15,17,18 Human infections are rare but usually fatal. An indolent clinical course such as that of case 2 is rarely reported. The exact mechanism of infection is unknown and the reason why infection does not occur in all case of exposure is uncertain, as illustrated in case 3. Children with chronic granulomatous disease appear to be more vulnerable.17 Nonetheless, there is currently no evidence to support an immunocompromised state as a risk factor for infection. Diagnosis requires a high index of suspicion and is made on the basis of isolation of the organism from wounds Fig 2. Chromobacterium violaceum colonies on sheep blood and blood cultures. Ciprofloxacin is the most effective agar antimicrobial in vitro although other fluoroquinolones such as norfloxacin and pefloxacin are also very effective. The organism is also susceptible to imipenem, piperacillin, number of biochemical tests and flagellar morphology as and mezlocillin. Most strains are resistant to other illustrated by Sivendra and Tan.3 The complete genomic penicillins and cephalosporins.16 The multi-drug resistant sequence of this bacterium has recently been revealed and nature of the organism (as in case 1) has been highlighted.19 has provided a basis for detailed studies of its antiviral and Prompt treatment with antibiotics is vital as patients with bactericidal activities, cytotoxicity, and drug resistance bacteraemic sepsis carry the worst prognosis.17 Fatalities mechanisms. This may also explain why C violaceum is similar to cases 1 and 2 have been repeatedly reported pathogenic in mammals and sometimes fatal in cases of
