CASE REPORT
KEYWORDS: violaceum, cid, cid cid, chromobacterium, chromobacterium violaceum, infection, case, blood, med, organism, cases, cultures, kong, hong kong, hong


prognosis.17 Fatalities mechanisms. This may also explain why C violaceum is similar to cases 1 and 2 have been repeatedly reported pathogenic in mammals and sometimes fatal in cases of despite the use of appropriate antibiotics. Prolonged human infection.6-10 antimicrobial treatment for 6 weeks is recommended, as relapse of the disease has been documented and postulated Reported human infections have generally occurred in to be due to the presence of internal organ abscesses.17 In subtropical and tropical areas: more than 150 cases have the absence of treatment, the prognosis is grave. Rapid been reported from Vietnam, Taiwan, Japan, United States, deterioration is expected with mortality rates as high as 50% Brazil, Argentina, Australia, Senegal, and Sri Lanka.3 A to 60% reported.9,13,17 search of our hospital microbiological database showed our cases are the only three documented cases in Hong Kong In conclusion, human infections caused by C violaceum from 1993 to 2005. Cases 1 and 2 represented true infection are rare but when they occur, are usually fatal. A high index by the organism, whereas case 3 was likely to represent of suspicion is required for diagnosis, especially in the colonisation rather than true infection by the bacteria. presence of a history of outdoor activities. Appropriate systemic antimicrobial therapy to halt progression of Infections commonly occur in summer months and infection is mandatory, even when the infection appears most reported cases are associated with a prior history of to be localised. injury to skin and exposure to soil and stagnant water. Unusual routes of exposure include infection after scuba References diving or near drowning,11-13 after breast surgery14, and appendicectomy.15 The presumed reservoir of the organism 1. Wooley PG. Bacillus violaceous manilae (a pathogenic organism). Bull in case 1 was likely to be the surrounding campsite water, Johns Hopkins Hosp 1905;16:89. 2. Ray P, Sharma J, Marak RS, et al. Chromobacterium violaceum from which positive cultures of the organism were isolated. septicaemia from north India. Indian J Med Res 2004;120:523-6. In case 3, the patient could have had contact with the 3. Sivendra R, Tan SH. Pathogenicity of nonpigmented cultures of organism during or after his fall. The mechanism by Chromobacterium violaceum. J Clin Microbiol 1977;5:514-6. which the organism caused line sepsis in case 2 was not 4. Steinberg JP, Del Rio C. Other gram-negative and gram-variable clear. Surgery was carried out under aseptic conditions and bacilli. In: Mandell GL, Bennett JE,
