Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


ABSTRACT Lipoprotein(a) is an apo B-containing lipoprotein which has a unique plasminogen-like apolipoprotein(a) attached to apo B-100. The levels of lipoprotein(a) are under strong genetic regulation and vary by several hundred-fold in the general population. Although the exact function of lipoprotein(a) is still a mystery, recent studies have shown that lipoprotein(a) has a causal role in atherosclerosis and its level has been shown to be a risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and calcific aortic valvular disease. Measurement of lipoprotein(a) level and comparison between different assays are challenging due to differences in reporting units and the absence of a reference method. Various guidelines recommend measurement of lipoprotein(a) levels in order to define cardiovascular risk. Lifestyle modifications have a minimal effect in reducing lipoprotein(a) levels. Currently available lipid-lowering therapies also result in only modest reductions in lipoprotein(a) levels. At present, there is no approved pharmacological treatment option for lowering lipoprotein(a) levels. More potent lipoprotein(a)-lowering medications are under active investigation to prove that lowering lipoprotein(a) level reduces ASCVD events. Lipoprotein(a), therefore, remains a viable and attractive therapeutic target in ASCVD risk reduction. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . HISTORY Lipoprotein(a) was first described by Kare Berg in 1963 ( 1 ) and later purified and characterized by Ehnholm and colleagues as part of human lipoproteins ( 2 ). Subsequent studies linked lipoprotein(a) to coronary artery disease (CAD) ( 3 , 4 ) and the threshold of 30 mg/dL was introduced ( 5 ). In 1987, amino acid sequences of apolipoprotein(a) [apo(a)], a major protein of lipoprotein(a), were identified and the LPA gene, encoding apo(a), was cloned ( 6 , 7 ). The sequence showed homology to plasminogen, a fibrinolytic proenzyme, but the protease domain was inactive ( 6 ). Apo(a) size polymorphism and its underlying molecular genetics were discovered and the inverse correlation between apo(a) isoform and lipoprotein(a) levels were demonstrated ( 8 ). Early observational and prospective studies showed higher levels of lipoprotein(a) in patients with CAD and myocardial infarction (MI) ( 4 , 5 , 9 - 12 ), but others did not ( 13 , 14 ). Lipoprotein(a) was later identified as a main carrier of oxidized phospholipids in the plasma ( 15 ). Results from large population-based studies along with Mendelian randomization studies in the past 2 decades have shown that lipoprotein(a) is a causal risk
