Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


phospholipids in the plasma ( 15 ). Results from large population-based studies along with Mendelian randomization studies in the past 2 decades have shown that lipoprotein(a) is a causal risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), especially MI and atherosclerotic stenosis ( 16 - 19 ). A surprise finding in 2013 also identified lipoprotein(a) as a key player in calcific aortic valvular disease (CAVD) ( 20 ). Currently, lipoprotein(a) is an active therapeutic target and results from ongoing phase 3 clinical studies will soon clarify the lipoprotein(a) hypothesis in ASCVD and CAVD. STRUCTURE AND ASSEMBLY Lipoprotein(a) is an apoB-containing lipoprotein resembling low-density lipoprotein (LDL), but apolipoprotein B-100 is covalently linked to a unique glycoprotein, called apolipoprotein(a) or apo(a). Apo(a), encoded by the LPA gene, is structurally similar to plasminogen, an important protein involved in fibrinolysis. In vitro , apo(a) has been shown to inhibit fibrinolysis ( 21 ) Apo(a) is present only in a subset of primates, including humans, Old World monkeys, and orangutans, but not in New World monkeys or other primates. The exception is the occurrence of an apo(a)-like protein in the hedgehog ( 22 ). A characteristic feature of apo(a) is the presence of loop-like structure stabilized by 3 internal disulfide bonds, called “kringles”. These kringle domains are triple-loop structures found in other coagulation factors, including plasminogen. While plasminogen has 5 kringle domains (KI, KII, KIII, KIV and KV) and one protease domain at the end, apo(a) has only KIV, KV and an inactive protease domain ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Structure of lipoprotein(a) (from www.familyheart.org). In apo(a), the number of the fourth kringle domain is highly variable due to expansion and differentiation of KIV into 10 different types of KIV domains, called KIV1-KIV10. While KIV1 and KIV3-KIV10 are present as single copies, kringle IV type 2 (KIV2) are further expanded, resulting in multiallelic copy number variation (1 to >40 copies). This expansion of KIV2 leads to a size polymorphism of apo(a), ranging from 300-800 kDa ( 23 ). Circulating levels of lipoprotein(a) are determined by the number of KIV2 copies. A low number of KIV2 copies results in small apo(a) isoforms, which lead to efficient secretion and contribute to higher levels of lipoprotein(a). On the other hand, the high number of KIV2 copies leads to large apo(a) isoforms and low levels of circulating lipoprotein(a). Apo(a) is mainly synthesized in the liver. Newly formed apo(a) is
