Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


other hand, the high number of KIV2 copies leads to large apo(a) isoforms and low levels of circulating lipoprotein(a). Apo(a) is mainly synthesized in the liver. Newly formed apo(a) is then bound to apo B-100 of LDL to become lipoprotein(a). The assembly of lipoprotein(a) particles is a two-step process ( 24 ). The first step is the non-covalent docking of the lysine-binding site at the KIV7-KIV8 domains of apo(a) to the lysine residues at the N-terminus of apo B-100. The second step is the covalent binding through the disulfide bond between the 2 free cysteines in the KIV-9 of apo(a) and apo B-100 ( 25 ). The site of lipoprotein(a) assembly has been controversial whether it occurs intracellularly or extracellularly ( 23 , 25 , 26 ), but a recent study using a hepatocyte cell model suggests that the first non-covalent step occurs intracellularly, whereas the second covalent bond formation occurs extracellularly ( 27 , 28 ). FUNCTION The physiological function of lipoprotein(a) remains obscure ( 23 ). Earlier, it has been suggested that lipoprotein(a) may assist in wound healing ( 16 , 29 ). Lipoprotein(a) can interact with fibrin and other components of the extracellular matrix ( 30 ) via the lysine-binding sites in its kringle domains and it delivers cholesterol to the site of injury. Besides carrying cholesterol esters, free cholesterol, triglycerides, and phospholipids, lipoprotein(a) is the main carrier of oxidized phospholipids in the circulation ( 15 ). Lipoprotein(a) might also act as a carrier/scavenger for oxidized lipids since oxidized phospholipids and platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase, an enzyme involved in hydrolyzing PAF, are found on lipoprotein(a) particles. In vitro, lipoprotein(a) can interfere with many steps of blood clotting and fibrinolysis ( 21 ), but the evidence for its thrombogenic role in vivo is less convincing ( 16 ). In the Finnish population, loss-of-function variants in the LPA gene have been found ( 31 ). Although these subjects have very low levels of lipoprotein(a), no identifiable clinical abnormalities have been demonstrated ( 31 ). An increased risk of type 2 diabetes has been reported in those who have very low levels of lipoprotein(a) ( 32 - 36 ). Whether low levels of lipoprotein(a) are causally associated with type 2 diabetes is still unclear. METABOLISM Circulating levels of lipoprotein(a) are primarily determined by isoform size-dependent production rate and not catabolism ( 37 ). Fractional catabolic rates for lipoprotein(a) with short and
