Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


is still unclear. METABOLISM Circulating levels of lipoprotein(a) are primarily determined by isoform size-dependent production rate and not catabolism ( 37 ). Fractional catabolic rates for lipoprotein(a) with short and long isoforms have been shown to be relatively indifferent ( 37 ). Liver is the main site of lipoprotein(a) catabolism, with a minor contribution from the kidney ( 26 ). Apo(a), apo B-100 and oxidized phospholipids carried on lipoprotein(a) may play a role in catabolism of lipoprotein(a) particles by acting as ligands for various receptors. A number of receptors have been shown to be associated with clearance of lipoprotein(a), including lipoprotein receptors, scavenger receptors, plasminogen receptors, Toll-like receptors (TLRs), and carbohydrate receptors or lectins ( 38 ). However, the relative contribution of these different receptors in lipoprotein(a) clearance remains to be explored. The lack of suitable animal models and the conflicting data on the role of certain receptors on the catabolism of lipoprotein(a) also make it difficult to conclude the definite role of these receptors. Following uptake into the cells, it has been shown that lipoprotein(a) dissociates into 2 components, with LDL being degraded in lysosomes and apo(a) being recycled to be re-secreted ( 39 ). It has been estimated that approximately 30% of apo(a) is recycled after lipoprotein(a) internalization into the cells ( 39 ), which could potentially contribute to the circulating level of lipoprotein(a). GENETICS Lipoprotein(a) levels are strongly determined by the genetic locus at the LPA gene on chromosome 6, which encodes apo(a). The LPA gene is closely related to the PLG gene, which encodes plasminogen. These 2 genes diverged about 40 million years ago with the loss of KI-KIII and the expansion and differentiation of KIV domain ( 23 ). The major genetic determinant is a copy number variation of the KIV2 repeat, which explains approximately 30-70% of the variability in lipoprotein(a) levels, depending on ethnicity ( 40 ). The apo(a) size is highly variable among individuals and depends on the number of KIV2 repeats in the LPA gene. Expression of a low number ( 10 - 22 ) of KIV2 repeats is characterized by small apo(a) isoforms and higher lipoprotein(a) levels, whereas a higher number (>23) of KIV2 repeats results in large apo(a) isoforms and lower lipoprotein(a) levels. Smaller apo(a) isoforms are associated with higher apo(a) production rates from the liver ( 41 ), whereas larger isoforms are more susceptible to proteosomal degradation in the
