Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


years ( 59 ). The level of lipoprotein(a) seems to be stable throughout life because it is under a strong genetic influence ( 60 ). Except for certain medical conditions, plasma lipoprotein(a) levels are relatively stable across the lifespan independent of lifestyle. A long-term study over a period of 15 years has shown that the overall absolute change in lipoprotein(a) levels is relatively modest but may be more pronounced in subjects with very high lipoprotein(a) levels ( 60 ). The level is also not affected by fasting ( 61 ). Because lipoprotein(a) levels are predominantly determined by genetics, lifestyle modifications appear to have minimal effects ( 45 ). A low carbohydrate/high saturated fat diet was shown to result in a 15% decrease in lipoprotein(a) levels ( 62 ), whereas a decrease in saturated fat was associated with a 10-15% increase in lipoprotein(a) levels ( 63 ). Dietary changes may affect lipoprotein(a) levels in the opposite direction to LDL-C. Physical activity and exercise may affect lipoprotein(a) levels but the results are inconsistent and it may depend on the host, type, intensity, and duration ( 64 ). As lipoprotein(a) is produced by the liver, a reduction in lipoprotein(a) levels is observed in liver disease ( 65 , 66 ). Liver transplantation has been shown to change apo(a) isoform to that of the donor with corresponding changes in lipoprotein(a) levels ( 67 ). In contrast, elevations of lipoprotein(a) levels are shown in nephrotic syndrome and chronic kidney diseases, either from impaired catabolism or increased hepatic production in response to protein loss in urine or in dialysis ( 68 , 69 ). A large increase is found among subjects who carry large apo(a) isoform sizes ( 70 ). Initiation of dialysis has no effect on lipoprotein(a) levels ( 71 ). Kidney transplantation can rapidly normalize lipoprotein(a) levels within several weeks ( 72 - 74 ). Infection and inflammation also affect lipoprotein(a) levels. In acute and chronic inflammatory conditions, such as autoimmune diseases, lipoprotein(a) levels were increased ( 10 , 75 ), but in severe life-threatening conditions, such as sepsis and burns, lipoprotein(a) levels were decreased ( 76 ). Lipoprotein(a) levels increased during COVID infections, which might be responsible for increased thromboembolic events ( 77 , 78 ). The LPA gene contains interleukin-6 response elements ( 79 ) and elevated lipoprotein(a) levels could be decreased using interleukin-6 receptor blockade by tocilizumab ( 80 ). Following
