Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


MEASUREMENT AND REPORTING The wide variation in apo(a) isoform size among individuals poses challenges in measuring and reporting lipoprotein(a) levels. Most commercially available immunoassays use polyclonal antibodies which may cross-react with multiple KIV2 repeats ( 97 ). As a result, it may overestimate or underestimate lipoprotein(a) levels in subjects with large or small apo(a) isoforms, respectively. Currently, the latex-enhanced immunoturbidimetric method by Denka Seiken, Japan, has been shown to be less affected to apo(a) isoform size variability with high concordance of values when compared with the reference enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method ( 98 , 99 ). Although the antibodies used in the Denka assay are still isoform dependent, the impact of apo(a) size variation is minimized by the use of five different calibrators ( 99 ). Nevertheless, results comparing six commercially available immunoassays, all of which use five-point calibrators, show a wide range of discrepancy among various assays ( 100 ). The reference ELISA method using monoclonal antibodies developed by a group at the University of Washington is considered the least apo(a) isoform size-sensitive immunoassay available ( 98 , 99 ). Recently, a newly developed LC-MS/MS method has been shown to be unaffected by the apo(a) isoform size polymorphism and proposed as a candidate reference method for standardization of lipoprotein(a) assay ( 101 ). Besides the issues in measuring lipoprotein(a) levels, the reporting of lipoprotein(a) levels is also challenging. Currently, there are 2 types of commercially available assays to measure and report lipoprotein(a) levels. The first one reports the level in total lipoprotein(a) mass concentrations, which include the mass of apo(a), apo B-100, lipid, and carbohydrate components. The values are based on assay calibrators and are expressed in mg/dL. In the first method, there is no traceability of the various calibrators to the reference material ( 102 ). In the second method, the level is reported in lipoprotein(a) particle number and expressed in nmol/L of apo(a). The assay calibrators used in the second approach are traceable to the World Health Organization/International Federation of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine (WHO/IFCCLM) secondary reference material ( 98 ) and the values are compared to the “gold standard” monoclonal antibody-based ELISA developed by Marcovina et al. ( 103 ). It is recommended that lipoprotein(a) levels should be measured with an assay which is least subjected to apo(a) isoform size and has been calibrated with the WHO/IFCCLM reference material. Current recommendations also encourage the
