Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


lipoprotein(a) levels should be measured with an assay which is least subjected to apo(a) isoform size and has been calibrated with the WHO/IFCCLM reference material. Current recommendations also encourage the reporting of lipoprotein(a) levels in molar units, but if it is not available, the units in which the assay is calibrated should be used for reporting ( 59 , 104 , 105 ). It is known that different apo(a) isoform sizes give different molecular weights ( 106 ), therefore, direct conversion between molar and mass concentrations (i.e. nmol/L and mg/dL) using a single conversion factor could be misleading and is discouraged ( 59 , 99 , 106 ). Nevertheless, a factor of 2.0-2.5 is traditionally used to convert from a mass unit to a molar unit ( 97 ), although it may vary from 1.85 for a large apo(a) size to 2.85 for a small apo(a) size ( 99 ). Since lipoprotein(a) and LDL have relatively similar size and density, cholesterol contained in lipoprotein(a) particles cannot be separated from that in LDL particles and is therefore collectively reported as LDL-C concentration. Previous experiments of isolated lipoprotein(a) particles showed that cholesterol accounted for approximately 30% of lipoprotein(a) mass concentration, therefore, lipoprotein(a)-cholesterol could be estimated by multiplying lipoprotein(a) mass (mg/dL) by 0.3 and used to correct LDL-C (lipoprotein(a)-cholesterol-corrected LDL-C) ( 59 ). However, a recent study directly measured lipoprotein(a)-cholesterol relative to lipoprotein(a) mass demonstrated that the percentage varied widely, ranging from 5.8% to 57.3% with a median of 17.3% ( 107 ), therefore, routine correction of LDL-C for lipoprotein(a)-cholesterol is currently not recommended in clinical practice ( 59 ). There are certain exceptions to this. First, in patients with clinically suspected familiar hypercholesterolemia (FH) and elevated lipoprotein(a) levels, measurement of lipoprotein(a)-cholesterol may be warranted since the corrected value may help exclude the diagnosis of FH and avoid unnecessary genetic testing ( 108 ). Second, correcting LDL-C for lipoprotein(a)-cholesterol may help explain the suboptimal response or resistance to statin therapy. High levels of lipoprotein(a) result in falsely elevated LDL-C. Since statins do not lower lipoprotein(a) levels, cholesterol in lipoprotein(a) is considered a statin-resistant fraction of LDL-C. EFFECTS OF LIPOPROTEIN(A) ON VASCULAR DISEASE Lipoprotein(a) exerts multiple effects that could be proatherogenic, proinflammatory, and prothrombotic. Lipoprotein(a) could be atherogenic since lipoprotein(a) is small enough (<70 nm in diameter) to enter and become trapped in the vascular wall. Cholesterol carried on lipoprotein(a) particle could then be
