Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


Lipoprotein(a) could be atherogenic since lipoprotein(a) is small enough (<70 nm in diameter) to enter and become trapped in the vascular wall. Cholesterol carried on lipoprotein(a) particle could then be deposited in the arterial intima and aortic valvular leaflets. However, the number of circulating lipoprotein(a) particles is substantially lower than that of LDL particles. As a result, the amount of cholesterol deposited from lipoprotein(a) is expected to be much lower than that from LDL ( 109 ). Apo(a), the main protein of lipoprotein(a), also contains lysine-binding sites that could tightly bind to exposed surface of denuded endothelium of the vascular wall or the aortic valve leaflets. In an animal experiment of endothelial injury, it was found that lipoprotein(a) preferentially accumulated at injured sites, compared with LDL ( 110 ). These findings suggest that accumulation of lipoprotein(a) at the site of vascular injury could be the primary mechanism by which elevated lipoprotein(a) causes cardiovascular disease. There is increasing evidence that oxidized phospholipids carried on lipoprotein(a) play a major role in atherogenesis and valvular calcification. In plasma, lipoprotein(a) is the main carrier of oxidized phospholipids ( 15 ). Interaction between oxidized phospholipids and apo(a) is mediated by the histidine residues in the KIV-10 domain of apo(a) ( 111 , 112 ). These oxidized phospholipids are both proatherogenic and proinflammatory ( 113 ). Oxidized phospholipids can induce inflammation by binding TLR2, TLR4, CD14 and CD36 on monocytes, macrophages, and endothelial cells ( 79 , 114 ). The result is an activation of multiple cytokines, chemokines, and adhesion molecules that mediate monocyte activation and migration into the vascular wall, endothelial dysfunction and proliferation, proliferation and migration of vascular smooth muscle cells into the atheromatous plaques, generation of reactive oxygen species, progression of vascular wall inflammation, and cell apoptosis that could lead to plaque rupture ( 115 , 116 ). Structurally, apo(a) is similar to plasminogen, but the protease domain of apo(a) is catalytically inactive. Therefore, apo(a) may inhibit binding of plasminogen to endothelial cell surface receptor, compete with plasminogen for fibrin affinity sites, and interfere with fibrinolytic activity of plasminogen through a molecular mimicry mechanism ( 21 ). However, lowering lipoprotein(a) levels does not affect ex vivo fibrinolysis ( 117 ), suggesting that the role of lipoprotein(a) in thrombosis may involve other mechanisms beyond fibrinolysis ( 118 ). Lipoprotein(a) has also been shown to induce tissue factor expression, inhibit tissue factor pathway inhibitor, promote
