Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


role of lipoprotein(a) in thrombosis may involve other mechanisms beyond fibrinolysis ( 118 ). Lipoprotein(a) has also been shown to induce tissue factor expression, inhibit tissue factor pathway inhibitor, promote platelet activation and aggregation, and alter the structure of fibrin, which ultimately leads to thrombosis ( 118 ). It is of note that these proatherogenic, proinflammatory, and prothrombotic effects of lipoprotein(a) have been demonstrated mainly from in vitro studies, and the clinical significance of these findings needs to be established from human studies. LIPOPROTEIN(A) AND CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE Over the past two decades, data from epidemiological studies, meta-analyses, genome-wide association studies, and Mendelian randomization studies, have provided conclusive evidence that elevated lipoprotein(a) levels are associated with a higher risk of ASCVD ( 16 , 18 , 47 , 119 - 121 ). This is true in all ethnicities studied to date ( 17 , 55 , 122 ). The result of a genome-wide association study revealed that the most potent genetic association with coronary artery disease (CAD) was the LPA locus ( 121 ). A number of Mendelian randomization studies have shown that genetic variants associated with high lipoprotein(a) levels are more prevalent in subjects with ASCVD ( 18 , 47 ), whereas genetic variants associated with low lipoprotein(a) levels are protective against the development of ASCVD ( 31 , 49 ). Several epidemiological studies, both in primary prevention and secondary prevention settings, have shown an association between lipoprotein(a) levels and ASCVD ( 17 , 19 , 55 , 120 , 123 ). The association is continuous and linear in different ethnicities without evidence of a threshold effect ( 17 , 120 ). Data from a large prospective cohort study from the UK Biobank showed a broadly linear relationship between lipoprotein(a) levels and ASCVD with an 11% increased risk of ASCVD with every 50 nmol/L increase in lipoprotein(a) levels ( 17 ). Another study also reported a relatively similar result, showing a 2.9% increased risk of CVD with every 18 nmol/L (10 mg/dL) increment in lipoprotein(a) levels ( 124 ). Results from the clinical trials suggest that lipoprotein(a) might be a determinant of residual risk of ASCVD in patients who achieved low levels of LDL-C. For example, in the JUPITER trial using high-intensity rosuvastatin, on-statin lipoprotein(a) levels were associated with a residual risk of ASCVD even at low LDL-C levels ( 125 ). Similarly, findings from the FOURIER and ODYSSEY-OUTCOMES trials,
