Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


using high-intensity rosuvastatin, on-statin lipoprotein(a) levels were associated with a residual risk of ASCVD even at low LDL-C levels ( 125 ). Similarly, findings from the FOURIER and ODYSSEY-OUTCOMES trials, using statins and PCSK9 inhibitors evolocumab and alirocumab, respectively, also demonstrated that patients with the higher baseline lipoprotein(a) levels were at an elevated risk of ASCVD irrespective of LDL-C levels ( 126 , 127 ). Lipoprotein(a) level is not associated with coronary artery calcium score, but both are independently associated with ASCVD risk ( 128 ). Elevated levels of lipoprotein(a) are associated with accelerated progression of atherosclerotic plaque ( 129 ). The association between lipoprotein(a) levels and ASCVD is strongest for MI, atherosclerotic stenosis, and calcific aortic valvular disease (CAVD) ( 16 ). Additionally, very high levels of lipoprotein(a) levels are also associated with an increased risk of ischemic stroke ( 120 , 130 ) and heart failure ( 131 ), although the associations are weaker. Not only that lipoprotein(a) is a determinant of ASCVD in patients with lower risk of ASCVD, but in subjects who are at higher risk of ASCVD, such as those with FH, elevated lipoprotein(a) levels have also been shown to be associated with a higher risk of ASCVD ( 132 , 133 ). Lipoprotein(a) is also an independent predictor of MI and mortality in patients with CKD ( 134 ). Regarding prothrombotic effects of lipoprotein(a), although in vitro data demonstrated that lipoprotein(a) might impair fibrinolysis, a potential role for lipoprotein(a) in prothrombotic and antifibrinolytic activity in vivo remains unproven ( 21 ). Epidemiological studies and Mendelian randomization studies have failed to establish the major role of lipoprotein(a) in venous thrombosis in adults ( 135 , 136 ). In children, however, there is some evidence that elevated lipoprotein(a) level is a risk factor for arterial ischemic stroke and venous thromboembolism ( 137 ). LIPOPROTEIN(A) AND CALCIFIC AORTIC VALVULAR DISEASE Calcific aortic valvular disease (CAVD) is the disease of the aortic valve that includes early valvular sclerosis and advanced aortic valvular stenosis. CAVD is the leading cause of aortic valve replacement in developed countries, but there is currently no available medical treatment for CAVD. CAVD is characterized by thickening of the aortic valve leaflets with progressive stenosis of the aortic valve. Although the early stages of CAVD are asymptomatic, severe aortic stenosis may lead to significant left ventricular outflow obstruction and subsequent development of syncope, angina and
