Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


of the aortic valve. Although the early stages of CAVD are asymptomatic, severe aortic stenosis may lead to significant left ventricular outflow obstruction and subsequent development of syncope, angina and heart failure. Early cross-sectional studies have shown a strong association between elevated lipoprotein(a) and CAVD ( 138 , 139 ). Such association, however, cannot be used to indicate that lipoprotein(a) is causal for CAVD. In 2013, a genome-wide association study in subjects of European ancestry reported an association between genetic variants in the LPA locus and CAVD ( 20 ), which was also confirmed across multiple ethnic groups ( 20 , 140 ). Subsequent cohort and case-control studies have verified this finding and further linked lipoprotein(a) levels and oxidized phospholipids to CAVD ( 141 - 144 ). Lipoprotein(a) is now considered as a new causal risk factor for CAVD ( 16 ). Two recent meta-analyses show that plasma lipoprotein(a) levels ≥50 mg/dL are associated with a 1.76-1.79-fold increased risk of CAVD ( 145 , 146 ). Elevated lipoprotein(a) levels have also been associated with the faster progression of CAVD and the increased risk for aortic valve replacement and cardiovascular death ( 143 , 146 - 149 ). In contrast, genetically lowered levels of lipoprotein(a) are associated with a 37% lower risk of aortic stenosis ( 150 ). The normal aortic valve consists of endothelial cells and valvular interstitial cells. In the early stage of CAVD, increased permeability of valvular endothelial cells occurs and results in endothelial barrier dysfunction. Mechanical shear stress may cause further injury to the valvular endothelial cells, leading to endothelium denudation. As a result, lipid infiltration by LDL and lipoprotein(a) follows, similar to the development of atherosclerosis. Inflammatory responses ensue and induce the valvular interstitial cells to gain a myofibroblast-like phenotype and release collagen matrix along with other bone-related proteins. The later stage of CAVD is characterized by the osteogenic differentiation of the valvular interstitial cells, resulting in progressive calcification of the aortic valve. Apoptosis of the valvular interstitial cells can lead to formation of hydroxyapatite crystals and further calcification, creating the propagation of both inflammation and calcification. Progressive fibrosis and widespread calcification ultimately result in thickening and dysfunction of the aortic valvular leaflets. The role of lipoprotein(a) in the molecular pathogenesis of CAVD is now accumulating. Apo(a) may increase the endothelial cell permeability through the Rho/RhoK signaling pathway, which is dependent on the lysine-binding site in
