Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


lipoprotein(a) in the molecular pathogenesis of CAVD is now accumulating. Apo(a) may increase the endothelial cell permeability through the Rho/RhoK signaling pathway, which is dependent on the lysine-binding site in the KIV10 domain. Since lipoprotein(a) is a major carrier of oxidized phospholipids in plasma, infiltration of lipoprotein(a) in the valvular tissue can deliver oxidized phospholipids to the valve. Oxidized phospholipids can directly attract monocytes and promote the transformation into macrophages. Oxidized phospholipids can then interact with various receptors on the macrophage, resulting in the release of several pro-inflammatory cytokines and subsequent formation of foam cells. Lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) from the macrophage carried on lipoprotein(a) can also act on oxidized phospholipids and generate lysophosphatidylcholine. Autotaxin, a lysophospholipase D enzyme secreted by the valvular interstitial cells and carried on lipoprotein(a) particles ( 151 ), can convert lysophosphatidylcholine into lysophosphatidic acid. Lysophosphatidic acid is both pro-inflammatory and pro-calcifying. By binding the lysophospholipid receptor on the valvular interstitial cells, it can activate the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and the Wnt-β-catenin pathways, leading to increased transcripts of IL-6 and various osteogenic genes, including runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2). The result is the production of alkaline phosphatase, calcium deposition, inflammation, and calcification of the aortic valve ( 152 ). These molecular pathways involved in the pathogenesis of CAVD provide several targets of interest, in addition to lipoprotein(a), that could be targeted and may lead to novel therapies for CAVD in the future. GUIDELINE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MEASUREMENT OF LIPOPROTEIN(A) LEVELS Measurement of lipoprotein(a) levels could help refine the cardiovascular risk in certain conditions and various professional societies have recommended specific clinical conditions that warrant the measurement of lipoprotein(a) levels ( 59 , 105 , 153 - 156 ) as shown in Table 2 . Table 2. Guideline Recommendations for Lipoprotein(a) Measurement View in own window Indications AHA 2018 HEART UK 2019 NLA 2019 CCS 2021 BHS 2022 EAS 2022 1. Familial hypercholesterolemia ✓ ✓ All individuals ✓ All adults 2. Family history (1 st degree relatives) of premature ASCVD ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 3. Family history (1 st degree relatives) of elevated lipoprotein(a) ✓ ✓ ✓ 4. Personal history of premature ASCVD ✓ ✓ 5. Recurrent CVD despite optimal statin treatment ✓ 6. Inadequate LDL-C reduction in response to statin ✓ 7. Borderline or intermediate risk of ASCVD ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 8. Calcific valvular aortic stenosis ✓ ✓
