Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


statin treatment ✓ 6. Inadequate LDL-C reduction in response to statin ✓ 7. Borderline or intermediate risk of ASCVD ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 8. Calcific valvular aortic stenosis ✓ ✓ ✓ It has been pointed out that different recommendations on measurement of lipoprotein(a) among various guidelines may be related to when the guidelines have been written ( 157 ). Most of the earlier guidelines list a number of conditions in which lipoprotein(a) should be measured, but the 2019 European Society of Cardiology/European Atherosclerosis Society (ESC/EAS) dyslipidemia guidelines have simplified this and recommended that lipoprotein(a) measurement should be considered at least once in each adult person’s lifetime ( 158 ). The rationale behind this recommendation is to identify individuals with very high levels of lipoprotein(a), i.e., >180 mg/dL or >430 nmol/L, who have a lifetime risk of ASCVD equivalent to that of heterozygous FH ( 158 ). Thus, measuring lipoprotein(a) levels in those with very high levels could make a significant contribution in the overall management to reduce cardiovascular risk. For the latest EAS lipoprotein(a) consensus statement published in 2022, it is recommended that lipoprotein(a) levels should be measured at least once in every adult ( 59 ). Incorporating lipoprotein(a) levels in the cardiovascular risk assessment could help improve risk stratification and provide comprehensive ASCVD risk evaluation. In addition, failure to consider an individual’s lipoprotein(a) level could lead to an underestimate of the absolute cardiovascular risk ( 59 ). For example, in a person with baseline risk of ASCVD events of 25%, a lipoprotein(a) level of 150 mg/dL will substantially increase the risk to 68% ( 59 ). A new risk calculator incorporating lipoprotein(a) levels and other traditional cardiovascular risk factors is now publicly available at http://www.lpaclinicalguidance.com . Elevated lipoprotein(a) level is transmitted as a co-dominant trait. When an index subject is found to have high lipoprotein(a) level, screening for high lipoprotein(a) level in other family members is recommended and could help identify other affected family members ( 59 ). This approach is relatively similar to cascade screening in FH, except that genetic testing is not required. For children, there is a recommendation that children who have history of hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke, children of a parent with premature ASCVD and no other identifiable risk factors, and children of a parent with high levels of lipoprotein(a) should have lipoprotein(a) testing ( 59 , 154 ). In general, the higher the lipoprotein(a)
