Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


163 ). Data from the Mendelian randomization studies have suggested that lowering lipoprotein(a) levels by approximately 100 mg/dL (215 nmol/L) would produce a similar benefit of reducing ASCVD risk by 22% as shown by lowering LDL-C levels by 38.6 mg/dL (1 mmol/L) using statin therapy ( 164 ). A separate analysis using data from primary prevention studies suggested that this number might be overestimated and lowering lipoprotein(a) levels by 65 mg/dL would be enough to give 22% ASCVD risk reduction ( 165 , 166 ). Similarly, data from the Copenhagen General Population Study demonstrated that lowering lipoprotein(a) by 50 mg/dL (105 nmol/L) within a 5-year period would produce a 20% reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events for secondary prevention ( 167 ). It is of note that lowering LDL-C levels of 38.6 mg/dL to give a reduction of an adverse cardiovascular event of 22% was used only as a benchmark and it is possible that lowering lipoprotein(a) levels by smaller amount may also be beneficial as previously shown for LDL-C lowering. Although early studies report an increase in lipoprotein(a) levels after statin therapy, recent meta-analyses of statin therapy show that there is heterogeneity across studies. In addition, the changes in lipoprotein(a) levels are relatively small and may not be clinically meaningful ( 168 , 169 ). Currently, it is widely accepted that the benefits of statin in lowering LDL-C levels and decreasing ASCVD risk outweigh the potential risk associated with a small increase in lipoprotein(a) levels. PCSK9 inhibitors, including evolocumab, alirocumab and inclisiran, can lower lipoprotein(a) levels by 10-30% and the absolute reduction is greatest in those with high lipoprotein(a) levels at baseline ( 126 , 127 , 170 ). A post-hoc analysis from the FOURIER trial using evolocumab reported a 23% decrease in adverse cardiovascular events in those with a baseline lipoprotein(a) level >37 nmol/L and a 7% reduction in those with <37 nmol/L ( 126 ). A significant relationship between a 15% lower risk per 25 nmol/L reduction of lipoprotein(a) levels was also observed. These data suggest that a small lowering in lipoprotein(a) level might have a clinical benefit. Results from the ODYSSEY Outcomes trial using alirocumab also showed a significant reduction in major cardiovascular events among those in the two highest quartiles of baseline lipoprotein(a) levels ( 127 ). Interestingly, an exploratory analysis of the FOURIER trial further showed that lipoprotein(a) level was associated with future aortic
