Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


in the two highest quartiles of baseline lipoprotein(a) levels ( 127 ). Interestingly, an exploratory analysis of the FOURIER trial further showed that lipoprotein(a) level was associated with future aortic stenosis (AS) events (new or worsening CAVD or aortic valve replacement) and that evolocumab therapy beyond one year might reduce these AS events ( 171 ). However, it should be noted that this post hoc analysis was performed in only a small number of subjects and the original trial was not designed to evaluate the impact of PCSK9 inhibitors on CAVD. Other lipid-lowering medications, such as fibrates, ezetimibe, bempedoic acid and bile acid sequestrants, also have modest effects on lipoprotein(a) levels ( 163 ). Niacin can lower lipoprotein(a) levels by 20% due to decreased LPA mRNA and apo(a) production rate ( 172 ). Mipomersen and CETP inhibitors also decrease lipoprotein(a) levels by 20-30% ( 173 ). Currently, the use of these medications to lower lipoprotein(a) level is not advised. Lipoprotein apheresis is an option to lower lipoprotein(a) levels in clinical practice, although levels of all apoB-containing lipoproteins are reduced after treatment ( 174 ). A median reduction in lipoprotein(a) level by 70% was observed ( 175 ) but the time-averaged reduction was around 30-35% ( 176 ). Notably, a reduction in CAD events has been reported from several retrospective studies ( 177 - 180 ). Lipoprotein apheresis could therefore be considered in those with very high levels of lipoprotein(a) and progressive cardiovascular disease despite optimal management of other risk factors ( 174 ). Worldwide, lipoprotein apheresis is not commonly performed except in Germany where it is approved for ASCVD patients who have elevated lipoprotein(a) levels (>120 nmol/L or >60 mg/dL) and recurrent ASCVD events, irrespective of LDL-C levels ( 175 ). Recently, it is also approved in the United States for patients with lipoprotein(a) levels >60 mg/dL and LDL-C levels >100 mg/dL with documented CAD or peripheral arterial disease ( 163 ). Without specific lipoprotein(a)-lowering therapy yet available, in subjects with elevated lipoprotein(a) levels, intensive risk factor management, such as healthy diet and lifestyle behavior modifications, is recommended along with the intensification of statin therapy to lower the risk of ASCVD ( 59 ). Data from the EPIC-Norfolk population-based study showed that in subjects with elevated lipoprotein(a) above 50 mg/dL, those who modified their lifestyles to maintain ideal cardiovascular health had about one third of cardiovascular risk compared to those
