Lipoprotein(a)
KEYWORDS: lipoprotein, pubmed, levels, lipoprotein levels, risk, free, apo, pmc, pmc free, article, article pubmed, free article, cardiovascular, disease, study


showed that in subjects with elevated lipoprotein(a) above 50 mg/dL, those who modified their lifestyles to maintain ideal cardiovascular health had about one third of cardiovascular risk compared to those with poor cardiovascular health ( 181 ). These modifiable cardiovascular health scores included body mass index, healthy diet, physical activity, smoking status, high blood pressure, diabetes and cholesterol concentration ( 181 ). In those whose LDL-C target levels are not achieved, ezetimibe or PCSK9 inhibitors could be considered ( 154 ). Aspirin has been shown to be associated with a cardiovascular risk reduction in subjects who carried the SNP rs3798220-C with elevated lipoprotein(a) levels from the Women’s Health Study and the Aspirin in Reducing Events in the Elderly (APREE) trial ( 182 ). However, this SNP was present in only a small percentage of Caucasian subjects (approximately 3-4%) in these 2 trials. Therefore, further studies with a larger number of subjects in broader populations are needed to confirm the benefits of aspirin. NEW SPECIFIC LIPOPROTEIN(A)-LOWERING TREATMENT Since apo(a) is exclusively produced by the liver, novel therapies targeting hepatic apo(a) production using antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) and small interfering RNA (siRNA) technologies are under active investigation. Pelacarsen, formerly known as TQJ230, IONIS-APO(a)-LRx and AKCEA-APO(a)-LRx, is a second generation of apo(a) ASO, conjugated with N -acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc). Since GalNac is preferentially bound to asialoglycoprotein receptor on the cell surface of hepatocytes, the design of this GalNac-conjugated molecule will ensure the selective uptake by hepatocytes. Administered by subcutaneous injection every 4 weeks, it can bind apo(a) RNA in the hepatocytes, leading to an approximately 80% reduction in lipoprotein(a) levels in subjects with lipoprotein(a) level >150 nmol/L or approximately 60 mg/dL ( 183 ). Pelacarsen is generally well tolerated with the most frequently reported adverse event being injection site reactions. Currently, a phase 3 Lp(a)-HORIZON ( NCT04023552 ) cardiovascular outcome study is underway to investigate the efficacy and safety of pelacarsen at the dose of 80 mg monthly for 4 years in subjects with ASCVD and lipoprotein(a) ≥70 mg/dL. Olpasiran, formerly known as AMG890 and ARO-LPA, is a GalNAc-conjugated siRNA that could be given every 3-6 months and result in a greater (>90%) reduction in lipoprotein(a) levels in subjects with lipoprotein(a) level >150 nmol/L or approximately 70 mg/dL ( 184 ). The most common adverse events were injection site reactions and hypersensitivity reactions. A cardiovascular outcome study ( NCT05581303 ) is currently investigating the effects
