Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation
KEYWORDS: ablation, patients, atrial, radiofrequency, fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, procedure, radiofrequency ablation, percutaneous, percutaneous radiofrequency, cardiac, heart, reported, guidance, ablation atrial


1 Guidance 1.1 Current evidence on the safety and efficacy of percutaneous radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation appears adequate to support the use of this procedure in appropriately selected patients (see section 2.1.4) provided that normal arrangements are in place for audit and clinical governance. 1.2 Clinicians should ensure that patients fully understand the potential complications, the likelihood of success and the risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation associated with this procedure. In addition, use of NICE's information for the public is recommended. 1.3 This procedure should only be performed in specialist units and with arrangements for cardiac surgical support in the event of complications. 1.4 This procedure should only be performed by cardiologists with extensive experience of other types of ablation procedures. 1.5 The National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research runs the National Congenital Heart Disease Audit database and clinicians are encouraged to enter all patients undergoing percutaneous radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation onto this database. 2 The procedure 2.1 Indications 2.1.1 Atrial fibrillation is the irregular and rapid beating of the upper two chambers of the heart (the atria). It may be classified as paroxysmal, persistent or permanent. Patients with atrial fibrillation may be asymptomatic or they may have symptoms including palpitations, dizziness, breathlessness and fatigue. They have an increased risk of stroke as a result of blood clots forming in the left atrium and then embolising to the brain. 2.1.2 Atrial fibrillation usually occurs in the absence of structural heart disease. 2.1.3 Conservative treatments include medication to control the heart rhythm and rate, electrical cardioversion and anticoagulation to prevent blood clots forming. Surgery for atrial fibrillation is usually performed at the same time as open heart surgery for another indication, such as for the correction of mitral valve disease. The conventional surgical approach, known as the Cox maze procedure, involves making multiple, strategically placed incisions in both atria to isolate and stop the abnormal electrical impulses. Alternative methods of creating lesions in the atria by ablation have been developed using energy sources such as radiofrequency, microwave, cryotherapy and ultrasound. 2.1.4 Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation is a treatment option for symptomatic patients with atrial fibrillation refractory to anti-arrhythmic drug therapy or where medical therapy is contraindicated because of co- morbidity or intolerance. 2.2 Outline of the procedure 2.2.1 Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation is a minimally invasive procedure that is usually carried out under sedation. A catheter is inserted into the femoral
