0095-1137/90/122786-06$02.00/0
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, antigens, fluids, ascitic, elisa, specimens, antigen, csf, fluid, pleural, assay, used, mycobacterial, fig


Antigen Capture Assay for Detection of a 43-Kilodalton Mycobacterium tuberculosis Antigen A. A. WADEE,* L. BOTING, AND S. G. REDDY Received 8June 1990/Accepted 13 September 1990 This study describes the development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to detect Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens in body fluids. A double-antibody sandwich procedure that used human andrabbit anti-M. tuberculosis immunoglobulin G antibodies wasfollowed. The ELISAwasable to detect as little as 0.8 ,igofprotein ofM. tuberculosis sonicextract. Of253cerebrospinal fluidspecimens submitted for analysis, Il (4.3%) false-positive results were recorded. Analysis of 317 pleural and ascitic fluid specimens resultedin6(1.9%)false-positiverecordings. Nofalse-negativeresultswererecordedforanyofthebodyfluids tested. This technique is rapid (5.5 h) and sensitive, may be developed and used in many laboratories with limited resources, and may prove useful in the diagnosis of extrapulmonary and pulmonary tuberculoses. Analysis of these body fluids by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western immunoblottingindicatedthattheantibodyusedintheELISAdetectsamycobacterialantigenof43kDa.Such antigens were not detected in body fluids ofnontuberculous patients. The disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis is ized and their application in diagnosis has not been estab- oftenunrecognized initsearlystagesbecauseofthefrequent lished. absenceofclassicalclinical symptoms(25) andanincreasing The present report describes the development of an proportion ofpatients with extrapulmonary involvement (9, ELISA to detect M. tuberculosis antigens by a sandwich 16, 26, 32). The diagnosis ofpleural and peritoneal tubercu- assay with two purified M. tuberculosis-specific antibodies. losis still remains problematic, as evidenced by reports ThisassaywasusedfordetectingM. tuberculosisantigensin indicating the absence of acid-fast bacilli on microscopic CSF and pleural and ascitic fluids ofdiagnosed tuberculous examination in more than 60% of patients (2, 19, 25, 33). patients and others with a variety of nonmycobacterial Histologicalexaminationofpleuralbiopsyspecimenscanbe diseases. The results indicate that the assay is highly sensi- unhelpful fordiagnosisforover20% ofpatients withpleural tiveandspecificinthedetectionofM. tuberculosisantigens. tuberculosis (33, 40), whereas peritoneal biopsy specimens Analysis of such antigens by sodium dodecyl sulfate-poly- arediagnosticforlessthan40%ofpatients(2, 19, 30). Direct acrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and Western examination of ascitic fluid reveals acid-fast bacilli only immunoblotting revealed a 43-kDa protein present in these when large volumes offluid are concentrated (34). In addi- fluidsthatwasrecognizedbyanti-M. tuberculosisantibodies. tion, many patients have negative results on skin tests for tuberculosis, and chest X rays are often normal (22). Cul- MATERIALS AND METHODS tures ofcerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens are not always For the establishment of the sandwich ELISA, initial helpful in the diagnosis oftuberculous meningitis. Cultures experiments used 39 pleural and 24 ascitic fluid specimens may show no growth or take up to 6 weeks to become obtained from patients with active pulmonary or abdominal positive for
