0095-1137/90/122786-06$02.00/0
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, antigens, fluids, ascitic, elisa, specimens, antigen, csf, fluid, pleural, assay, used, mycobacterial, fig


used 39 pleural and 24 ascitic fluid specimens may show no growth or take up to 6 weeks to become obtained from patients with active pulmonary or abdominal positive for M. tuberculosis (12, 30). tuberculosis. Control specimens were obtained from 49 Thesearchforreliable, reproducible, andspecificserolog- individuals with a variety ofnontuberculous diseases. CSF icaltestsforthediagnosis oftuberculosis hasbeenanactive specimens were obtained from 63 patients with tuberculous area of research for many years. Enzyme-linked immuno- meningitis and 109 CSF specimens were obtained from sorbentassays (ELISAs) are sensitive andreproducible and individuals with various central nervous system disorders do not require sophisticated equipment. Several investiga- other than tuberculous meningitis. These included patients tors have indicated thatthe demonstration ofmycobacterial sufferingfrompyogenic meningitis, febrile convulsions, and antigens in body fluids may be a clinically useful approach encephalitis. For the assessment ofthe ELISA, 200 pleural (1, 3, 11, 38). In particular, sandwich ELISAs have been fluid, 117 ascitic fluid, and 253 CSF specimens were used developed for the detection of mycobacterial antigens in withoutthe diagnosis being known at the time ofthe assay. sputum (40) and urine (21, 29) specimens. Such assays have The results ofthe ELISA were compared with clinical and used anti-Mycobacterium bovis BCG antibodies to identify histological data obtained after the ELISA was performed. M. tuberculosis (8, 20, 40). Using similar techniques, other Patientswere dividedintotwogroupsbased onthe criterion investigatorshavedescribedtheuseofELISAsfordetecting of probable or definite tuberculosis. In the cases of sus- tuberculous antigens inCSFandpleuralandasciticfluids(1, pected pulmonary tuberculosis, abdominal tuberculosis, or 2, 30). Circulating immune complexes have also been de- both, specimens were submitted for histology and culture. scribed in patients with tuberculosis (5, 7). However, the Histological evidence from biopsy specimens and the ap- antigens in these complexes have not been well character- pearance ofacid-fast bacilli in culture resulted in a definite diagnosis oftuberculosis. The criteria used for the diagnosis suggestive oftubercu- * Correspondingauthor. losis were those described by Maritz (26) and Bell and VOL. 28, 1990 ELISA FOR M. TUBERCULOSIS ANTIGENS IN BODY FLUIDS 2787 Andrews (4). These included presentation with exudative the human anti-M. tuberculosis IgG to be conjugated. Any effusions together with alymphocytosis, absence ofneoplas- freeenzymewasreducedbytheadditionof0.1 mlof4mgof tic cells, less than 1% mesothelial cells, an adenosine deam- sodium borohydride (SaARchem, Muldersdrift, Republic of inase level of more than 45 U/liter, and response to antitu- South Africa) perml. The mixture was thendialyzedagainst berculous therapy and clinical appearance suggestive of 0.1 M borate buffer (pH 7.4) overnight at 4°C. tuberculosis. A
