0095-1137/90/122786-06$02.00/0
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, antigens, fluids, ascitic, elisa, specimens, antigen, csf, fluid, pleural, assay, used, mycobacterial, fig


these Optimal concentrations ofreagents (rabbit antiserum and solutions was added as the test antigen for the assay. peroxidase-labeled human antiserum) and incubation times Antisera to mycobacterial antigens. Rabbits were given were determined by checkerboard titrations by using 10 ,ug weekly intramuscular immunizations of0.5 mg ofmycobac- ofM. tuberculosis extract per ml. terial sonic extracts per ml over a period of 2 months. Western blotting. Proteins in CSF and ascitic and pleural Boosterinjections were administered every 14 days thereaf- fluidswereresolvedbySDS-PAGEbyusing10%acrylamide ter. Sera were collected by bleeding the ear veins of these gels by the method of Laemmli (23). CSF and ascitic and rabbits. Humanblood wasobtainedbyvenipuncturefrom50 pleural fluids were diluted 1:1, 1:50, and 1:50, respectively, patients with proven tuberculosis; the patients had previ- inasamplebuffer. Electroblottingwasperformedessentially ously given informed consent. asdescribedbyTowbinetal. (36). Onceelectrophoresis was Purification of anti-M. tuberculosis antibodies. Rabbit and complete, the gels were equilibrated in cold (4°C) electro- human immunoglobulin G (IgG) were isolated from the blotting transfer buffer. appropriate seraby precipitation with ammonium sulfate by Upon completion of electroblotting, the nitrocellulose the method of Campbell (6). An equal volume of saturated strips were rinsed in Tris-buffered saline, (5 min for each ammonium sulfate solution was added to serum samples wash), and unbound sites on the strips were blocked with while the mixture was stirred gently. The mixture was bovine serum albumin (3 g/100 ml) for 1 h at room temper- incubated for 1 h at room temperature followed by centrifu- ature. The blots were washed fourtimes and then incubated gationat5,000 x gfor5min. Thepellet soobtained wasthen with a 1:500 dilution of peroxidase-labeled human anti-M. resuspended in distilled water and dialyzed against PBS tuberculosis antiserum for 2 h at room temperature with overnight. IgG was purified by passaging the mixture gentleagitation. Theblotswerewashedafinalfourtimesand through Sephadex G 200 columns (Pharmacia, Uppsala, then incubated in an enzyme-substrate solution (methanol- Sweden) by a modification of the technique described by 4-chloro-1-naphthol, H202) at roomtemperature for 15 to 20 Clarke and Adams (9). Immunoglobulin-rich suspensions (2 minutes. After the appearance of bands, the reaction was ml) were passed through preequilibrated Sephadex G 200 stopped by the addition of distilled water. The blots were columns(10by 1cm), and 1-mlfractionswerecollected. IgG then compared with their corresponding stained gels to was present in the first 8 ml that was eluted. determine the sizes of the bands to which the antisera had Enzymatic labeling of immunoglobulin. Purified human bound. anti-M. tuberculosis antibody was enzymatically
