0095-1137/90/122786-06$02.00/0
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, antigens, fluids, ascitic, elisa, specimens, antigen, csf, fluid, pleural, assay, used, mycobacterial, fig


the study of ascitic strongly to an antigen of 43 kDa (Fig. 5, which is a repre- fluids, only two false-positive readings were recorded for sentative Western blot of50 evaluations). fluidsobtainedfromapatientwithahepatoma(meanOD492, 0.240). No false-negative readings were recorded for speci- mens from patients in either group. The specificities ofour DISCUSSION ELISAforthedetectionofmycobacterialantigenswere96.7 The results ofour study demonstrate that the ELISA can and 97.1% for pleural and ascitic fluids, respectively. detect as little as 0.8 ,ug (starting concentration, 8 ,ug/ml) of Of 253 CSF specimens submitted for analysis, 63 speci- mycobacterial antigen (Fig. 1). Although the limits of our mens demonstrated ODs ofgreater than 0.25. Of these, 11 detection systems were an order of magnitude greater than 2790 WADEE ET AL. J. CLIN. MICROBIOL. influence the diagnostic significance of the antigen capture F E C B A assay. Thisisevidenced by thelownumberoffalse-positive readings recorded in the present study. To identify the antigen being detected in the ELISA, pleural and ascitic fluids and CSF were resolved by SDS- PAGE. Control specimens included fluidsfrom nontubercu- lous patients. On analysis ofgels ofthese fluids, numerous proteinbands were seen forallbodyfluidsfromtuberculous and nontuberculous patients that were assessed (Fig. 4). On Western blot analysis, the purified human anti-M. tubercu- losis antibody bound only to a protein of43 kDa that was present in the body fluids of patients with tuberculosis. These antibodies also appear to bind to the 40- and 43-kDa 49 43 kDa antigensofM. tuberculosisextracts resolvedbySDS-PAGE followedbyWesternblottinganalysis(A. A. Wadee,unpub- lished data). Otherinvestigators have separatedM. tubercu- losis antigens by SDS-PAGE (10). Theirresults suggestthat serafrompatients with tuberculosis bind to an antigenof45 kDa on Western blotting. Similarly, other investigators demonstrated binding ofantibodies present in seraoftuber- culous patients to mycobacterial antigens of 31 to 60 kDa (14, 15). Collectively, these findings indicatethat antigens in the range of43 kDa may be immunodominant. It is possible that such antigens could be shed directly into the infected areaormay arisefrom sequestered mycobacteriaintissues. Regardlessofthemechanismbywhichtheseantigensappear in body fluids, the present study indicates their effective diagnostic potential. The specificityofourantibodyisborneoutbythefactthat it does not bind to antigens present in the body fluids of FIG. 5. Immunoblot of pleural and ascitic fluids and CSFs re- nontuberculous patients. Furthermore, in studies not pre- solved by SDS-PAGE, as indicated in the legend to Fig. 4. The sented here, when these antibodies were preadsorbed with arrowhead indicates bindingofantibody to a43-kDamycobacterial fluid antigens from tuberculous patients, theirabilitytobind antigeninthe body fluids fromtuberculous patients only (Lanes A, to the 43-kDa antigen
