0095-1137/90/122786-06$02.00/0
KEYWORDS: tuberculosis, patients, antigens, fluids, ascitic, elisa, specimens, antigen, csf, fluid, pleural, assay, used, mycobacterial, fig


here, when these antibodies were preadsorbed with arrowhead indicates bindingofantibody to a43-kDamycobacterial fluid antigens from tuberculous patients, theirabilitytobind antigeninthe body fluids fromtuberculous patients only (Lanes A, to the 43-kDa antigen on Western blotting was lost. Ifsuch C, and E). adsorption were performed with nontuberculous fluids, the purifiedantibodiesretainedtheirabilitytobindtothe43-kDa that reported by Yanez et al. (40), our findings confirmed antigen ofpleural and ascitic fluids and CSF from tubercu- that sandwich ELISAs can be used to detect small amounts lous patients. of M. tuberculosis antigens in body fluids. In order to It has been suggested that immunoblotting is not suitable optimize the detection of mycobacterial antigens in pleural for routine serodiagnosis oftuberculosis (10). Certainly, for and ascitic fluids and CSF, these fluids were used in serial laboratories with limited resources, this could prove dif- dilutions. Optimal dilutions for the detection ofmycobacte- ficult. Mycobacterial antigens have been detected by using rial antigens were thus defined as 1:50 (pleural and ascitic ELISAswithanimaltissue(35), urine (21), tears (17), ascitic fluids) and 1:5 (CSF). Using these dilutions, our ELISA andpleuralfluidsand CSF(2, 19,27,30,31, 39,41), and sera demonstrates high specificity and sensitivity, with no false- (1). Many ofthese techniques have used BCG as an antigen negative readings being recorded (Fig. 3). The false-positive sourceand reliedupon commercialantiseraforthedetection findings in CSF, were for specimens from two patients with of mycobacterial antigens in these fluids. The antibodies pyogenic meningitis, two patients with diabetic comas, and used in our assay were obtained from rabbits immunized seven patients with myelomas. By using pleural and ascitic specifically with M. tuberculosis extracts and from the sera fluids, false-positive findings were recorded for six patients. ofconfirmed tuberculous patients. The use ofsuch specific These patients were diagnosed as having hepatocellular antibodies would therefore facilitate the identification ofM. carcinomas (four patients) and cancer of the breast (two tuberculosisantigenswithease. Theinitialantibodycouldbe patients). The accuracy of the predictive value of this used to capture the antigen, followed by the detection of ELISA, however, is indicated by the fact that readings for mycobacterial antigens by the second peroxidase-labeled only 6 of317 (1.9%) ascitic and pleural fluid specimens and antibody. Preparation of such antibodies for use in ELISA only 11 of253 (4.3%) CSF specimens were incorrect. for screening could be done without sophisticated technol- False-positive findings because of malignancy have been ogy, as described above. documented previously (13, 24). Our results are therefore TheELISAwedescribed takesaslittleas5.5 htoperform not surprising since cross-reacting antigens between tumors and offers
