Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578 REVIEW ARTICLE The microbiota-gut-brain axis: a potential target in the small-molecule compounds and gene therapeutic strategies for Parkinson’s disease Fengjuan Jiao1,2 · Lincong Zhou3 · Zaixin Wu3 Received: 2 August 2024 / Accepted: 5 November 2024 / Published online: 15 November 2024 © The Author(s) 2024 Abstract Backgrounds Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor symptoms and non-motor symptoms. It has been found that intestinal issues usually precede motor symptoms. Microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract can affect central nervous system through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Accumulating evidence has shown that disturbances in the microbiota-gut-brain axis are linked with PD. Thus, this pathway appears to be a promising therapeutic target for treatment of PD. Objectives In this review, we mainly described gut dysbiosis in PD and their underlying mechanisms for mediating neuroin- flammation and peripheral immune response in PD pathology and futher discussed the potential small-molecule compounds and genic therapeutic strategies targeting the microbiota-gut-brain axis and their applications in PD. Conclusions Studies have found that some small molecule compounds and alterations of inflammation-related genes can improve the motor and non-motor symptoms of PD by improving the microbiota-gut-brain axis, which may provide poten- tially beneficial drugs and molecular targets for the therapies of PD. Keywords Parkinson’s disease · Gut microbiota · Neuroinflammation · Immune response · Small-molecule compounds · Therapies Introduction genetic factors are thought to be involved in 5–10% of the PD cases . The etiology of PD remains unclear, but is Parkinson’s disease (PD) is the second most common neuro- usually due to a combination of genetics, age, and environ- degenerative disease characterized by the motor symptoms mental risks . Moreover, there is growing evidence that bradykinesia, rigidity and tremor, and many non-motor viral or bacterial exposures, pesticides, and alterations in the characteristics, accounting for 1% of the world’s population gut microbiota play an important role in the pathogenesis of over 60 years of age . The neuropathological features of PD . Additionally, it is now understood that patients with PD are the loss of dopaminergic neurons and the presence PD develop significant neuroinflammation and immune of a-synuclein (α-Syn)-containing Lewy bodies (LBs) in dysfunction at an early age, which is closely associated with the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) . Generally, a variety of non-motor symptoms such as sleep and gastro- intestinal dysfunction [5–7]. The immune dysfunction com- bined with complex gene-environment interactions
