Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) . Generally, a variety of non-motor symptoms such as sleep and gastro- intestinal dysfunction [5–7]. The immune dysfunction com- bined with complex gene-environment interactions may be Fengjuan Jiao the major factor that enables the development and progres- sion of PD. Microbiota can maintain human health by regulating host immunity and promoting intestinal barrier function Jianshe South Road, Jining City, Shandong Province 272067, P. R. China . Furthermore, growing evidence has shown that the gut microbiota may be the important contributor to central 2 Shandong Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis, Treatment and Behavioral Interventions of Mental Disorders, nervous system (CNS) dysfunction . Gut microbiota Shandong 272067, P. R. China barrier (BBB) permeabilities, which leads to a continuous Jining, Shandong 272067, PR China 1 3 562 Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578 metabolites in the brain, thereby promoting neuroinflam- by production of different antimicrobial substances, enhanc- mation in CNS . Gut dysbiosis has been found to be ing an individual’s immune system, playing an important and preclinical studies [13–16]. The neurotoxin 1-methyl- ing evidence has shown that gut microbiota modulates CNS 4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) used for PD immune responses and functions. Microglia are the tissue animal model can lead to a change in gut microbial compo- macrophages of the brain that are essential for maintaining sition . Similarly, alterations in the microbiome induced tissue homeostasis and clearing the pathogens from tissues microglial activation and neuroinflammation in mice over- . Erny et al. reported that global defects in microglia expressing α-Syn, which in turn promote motor dysfunction with phenotypic immaturity were observed in germ-free of the mice . In addition, gastrointestinal dysfunction (GF) mice, whereas the microglia impairment can be recti- and gut dysbiosis in PD patients can also interfere with fied to the recolonization with a complex microbiota . absorption and utilization of many drugs [17–20], suggest- They also determined that short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), ing that improving gut dysbiosis in PD may be an important a bacterial fermentation product, played a critical role in role in treating and preventing the progression of PD. Sev- microglia maturation and function . Additionally, it has eral therapeutic strategies targeting gut microbiota includ- been found that cyclic SCFAs produced by gut microbiota ing fecal microbiota transplantation (FTM), prebiotics and also enhance the integrity of the BBB by increasing the pro- probiotics, and dietary interventions have been validated in duction of tight junction
