Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


ing fecal microbiota transplantation (FTM), prebiotics and also enhance the integrity of the BBB by increasing the pro- probiotics, and dietary interventions have been validated in duction of tight junction proteins, further limiting the entry animal models and PD patients with the aim of improving of undesirable substances into the brain . Furthermore, symptoms and/or slowing progression of PD [21–28]. It is lipoproteins and lipopolysaccharides produced by the gut worth noting that a number of preclinical studies in recent microbiota can stimulate immune cells to release cyto- years have identified some small molecule compounds and kines, which cross the BBB and activate neurons, leading genetic alterations that can ameliorate the neurodegen- to changes in mood and behavior of the host . Increased eration of dopamine neurons and motor deficits in PD by BBB permeability was also observed in GF mice beginning improving the composition of the gut microbiota and neu- with intrauterine life, which was associated with decreased roinflammation [29–32], indicating that they may plays pro- expression of the tight junction proteins occludin and clau- tective effects on PD by improving the microbiota-gut-brain din-5, which regulate barrier function of the endothelial axis. In this review, we first introduce the machinery of the tissue . Taken together, gut microbiota and their metab- microbiota-gut-brain axis. Then, we provide a description olites play important roles in maintaining CNS homeostasis of gut dysbiosis in PD and their underlying mechanisms and immune responses. for mediating neuroinflammation and peripheral immune The microbiome-gut-brain axis is a bidirectional com- response in PD pathology. Finally, we highlight the poten- munication system between gut microbiota and the nerves tial small-molecule compounds and genic therapeutic system, which can influence brain activity, behavior, devel- strategies targeting the microbiota-gut-brain axis and their opment, as well as levels of neurotransmitter receptors applications in PD. through neuroimmune and neuroendocrine mechanisms [46–50]. Gastrointestinal (GI) motility and secretion are regulated primarily by reflexes within enteric nervous sys- Gut microbiota and the microbiota-gut- tem (ENS) in the physiological state, but they are mainly brain axis modulated by the autonomic nervous system (ANS) from the brain when the homeostasis of the organism is threatened Gut microbiota is a complex ecological community that live . The ANS widely innervates most organ systems in the in the digestive tract of humans and animals, consisting of body, which includes the parasympathetic nervous system, thousands of microorganisms such as bacteria, viruses and the
