Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


organ systems in the in the digestive tract of humans and animals, consisting of body, which includes the parasympathetic nervous system, thousands of microorganisms such as bacteria, viruses and the sympathetic nervous system, and the ENS . In the eukaryotes . The composition of the gut microbiota vertebrate gut, the ENS consists of neurons and glial cells varies in different digestive tracts. There are relatively few arranged in ganglia forming two distinct enteric plexuses bacterial species in the stomach and small digestive tract and their interconnecting neural pathways . The enteric . However, there is a dense ecosystem of microorgan- plexus mainly consists of two neural networks embedded isms containing multiple species in the colon . The colo- in the intestinal wall: the myenteric plexus located between nization of gut microbiota is established at birth, but their the longitudinal and circular muscle layers, and the submu- composition can be altered by internal and external factors cosal plexus located in the connective tissues of the submu- such as diet, antibiotics, bacterial infections, host genetics, cosa . The ganglionated plexus can provide local neural and age . Most gut microbiota are beneficial to the regulation on tissues and cells adjacent to the ganglia. Since 1 3 Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578 563 sense the gut microbiota primarily through microbial mol- microbiota-gut-brain axis are associated with intestinal dis- ecules that penetrate the epithelial barrier and the epithe- orders such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), functional lial cells themselves . Certain microbial components, dyspepsia, chronic abdominal pain, as well as psychiatric microbiota-regulated hormones, and microbiota-dependent and neurodegenerative disorders [71–76]. immune mediators can directly interact with the enteric neu- rons as well as vagal and spinal afferents innervating the gut. The local signals can be transmitted through sensory Gut microbiota and inflammation in PD neural circuits to brain regions involved in cognition, emo- pathology tion, fear/anxiety, somatic sensations, and/or feeding behav- ior [55–57]. In turn, the vagal and spinal efferents nerves Gut dysbiosis in PD transmit signals to the intestinal mucosa and affect gastro- intestinal homeostasis through indirect interactions with the Gut dysbiosis, which is defined as alterations in the structure ENS, ultimately influencing local immune function and the and/or function of the gut microbiota, have been reported in composition of the gut microbiota . patients diagnosed with neurological disorders . GI In addition to ENS sensing of microbial molecules, dysfunction, especially constipation, is an important
