Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


been reported in composition of the gut microbiota . patients diagnosed with neurological disorders . GI In addition to ENS sensing of microbial molecules, dysfunction, especially constipation, is an important nonmo- enteroendocrine cells (EECs) and enterochromaffin cells tor symptom of PD that usually precedes the motor symp- (ECCs) also form an important intermediate in microbi- toms by several years . Many studies have confirmed ota-ENS signaling. Microbial products and metabolites the correlation between GI dysfunction of PD and composi- (e.g., secondary bile acids, indole derivatives, and SCFAs) tion of gut microbiota, which have discovered that there was can signal through EECs and ECCs to regulate the secre- a diversity of microbiota in the feces of patients with PD tion of several neuropeptides and neuromodulators such [79–82] (Table 1). Results from a clinical study showed the as the appetite-regulating hormone GLP1, hormones, and abundance of Prevotellaceae in the feces of patients with neurotransmitters. If these secretions cross the BBB, they PD reduced by 77.6% compared to healthy controls, which can directly affect the activity of central neurons . Fur- also was significantly correlated with the Unified Parkin- thermore, it has been reported that the gut microbiota has son’s Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)-III total score . bidirectional interactions with the neuroendocrine signaling Furthermore, they also found that the relative abundance of pathway mediated by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal Enterobacteriaceae were significantly increase in patients (HPA) axis . Stress factors can increase the release of with a postural instability and gait difficulty (PIGD) phe- corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) from the hypo- notype and was positively associated with the severity of thalamus, which subsequently stimulates the secretion of postural instability and gait disturbance . Gut microbial adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) from the anterior analysis of 89 PD patients in Siberia showed changes in pituitary gland. Under the influence of ACTH, the adre- the content of 9 genera and 15 species of microorganisms nal glands begin to secrete cortisol, which can impact the in the intestines of patients compared to healthy controls. microbiota-gut-brain axis through multiple pathways . There was a decrease in Dorea, Bacteroides, Prevotella, Studies have found that cortisol receptors are expressed and Faecalibacterium and an increase in Christensenella, in a variety of intestinal cells, including epithelial cells, Catabacter and Lactobacillus. This gut microbial pattern EECs, and immune cells, which suggest that cortisol may may trigger the localized inflammation, which in turn leads have direct effects on
