Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


cells, Catabacter and Lactobacillus. This gut microbial pattern EECs, and immune cells, which suggest that cortisol may may trigger the localized inflammation, which in turn leads have direct effects on intestinal function [62–65]. In addi- to aggregation of α-Syn and the production of LBs . tion, cortisol can also change the composition and diversity A study by Liu and his colleagues has shown a significant of the gut microbial genome by altering intestinal tran- difference in the fecal microbiota between tremor and non- sit time, intestinal permeability, and nutrient supply . tremor subtypes in 80 PD patients in Taiwan, China. The Conversely, gut dysbiosis can also alter HPA axis function. relative abundance of Clostridium, Verrucomicrobia, and Mechanistically, gut dysbiosis may lead to increased release Akkermansia in the feces of PD patients with the tremor of cytokines including interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and tumor subtype was higher than that of the non-tremor subtype, necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), which may cross the BBB and whereas Propionibacterium, Bacteroidia, Flavobacterium, activate the HPA axis . Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) Mogibacterium, Sutterella, Alcaligenacea Cupriavidus, and and peptidoglycan (a component of the cell wall of most Desulfovibrio were more abundant in the non-tremor sub- bacteria) released by gut microbes can also activate the HPA types. Moreover, Lactobacillus abundance was correlated axis . Abnormalities in the control or integration of with the severity of motor symptoms in patients . In interoceptive signals can lead to perturbations throughout another clinical study included 24 patients with PD and 14 the entire microbiota-gut-brain axis system . A grow- healthy volunteers, it was reported that putative cellulose ing body of studies have shown that abnormalities in the degraders from the genera Blautia, Faecalibacterium and 1 3 564 Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578 Table 1 The clinical correlations between altered gut microbiota and PD Type of Study subjects Gene Altered microbiota Clinical Ref. study amplification correlations A case- 72 PD patients The V1-V3 Prevotellaceae↓; The severity of control and 72 controls regions of the Enterobacteriaceae↑; postural instabil- study bacterial 16 S ity and gait ribosomal RNA disturbance gene A cross- 197 PD patients The bacterial Christensenellaceae↑; Desulfovibrionaceae↑; Bifidobacterium↑; Firmer stool sec- and 103 controls 16 S rDNA V4 Collinsella↑; consistency and tional region Bilophila↑; constipation cohort Akkermansia↑; severity study Lachnospiraceae↓; Roseburia↓; Lachnospiraceae↓; Faecalibacterium↓ A pro- 193 idiopathic PD The V3-V4 Lachnospiraceae↓;Lactobacillaceae↑↓ Cognitive spective patients, region of the 16 S Christensenellaceae↑ impairment; obser- 22 progressive ribosomal RNA Gait;
