Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


Lactobacillus↑; Host metabo- control and 162 controls regions of the Turicibacter↓ lism and disease study 16 S ribosomal phenotype RNA gene Ruminococcus were reduced in the feces of patients with of dugs further needs to be investigated . A study has PD, while putative pathobionts from the genera Esche- also reported that significantly high levels of Rikenellaceae richia-Shigella, Streptococcus, Proteus, and Enterococcus and Turicibacteraceae were found in the gut microbiota of were increased, which may lead to decreased production of 59 patients suffering from PD for > 1 year and 13 new PD SCFAs and increased production of endotoxins and neuro- patients compared to the corresponding healthy controls, toxins . A meta-analysis of 10 case-control studies with respectively. Moreover, the genera Turicibacter and Pre- a total of 1,703 subjects showed that the composition of the votella were correlated with the PD severity . Baldini microbiome of PD patients was significantly different from et al. discovered that PD-associated microbial patterns were that of controls, including an increase in the rare taxa Mega- associated with gender, age, body mass index, and con- sphaera and Akkermansia and a decrease in the abundant of stipation in PD patients. And the relative abundances of Roseburia genus . They also found that many bacterial Bilophila and Paraprevotella were significantly associated genera are associated with PD motor severity and cogni- with the Hoehn and Yahr staging . Desulfovibrio bacte- tive function . Weis et al. observed that several bacte- ria (DSV) belongs to sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) which neuroprotective, such as Faecalibacterium and Fusicateni- produced by DSV can induce α-Syn aggregate formations bacter, reduced in 34 PD patients . Additionally, the . Results from the detection of faces from 20 PD Clostridiales family XI and their affiliated members which patients, Murros et al. found that all PD patients had higher were capable of peptone and amino acid fermentation, levels of Desulfovibrio in their gut microbiota than healthy including Peptoniphilus and Finegoldia, also increased in controls. And the concentration of Desulfovibrio was signif- PD patients [88–90]. However, they didn’t find any differ- icantly correlated with the severity of PD . In a Chinese ence of the beta diversity between PD and control samples. case-control study with 45 PD patients, genera Clostridium By analyzing the shotgun metagenome sequencing data IV and XVIII, Butyricoccus, Aquabacterium, Holdema- obtained from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) database, nia, Sphingomonas and Anaerotruncus were enriched in
