Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


genera Clostridium By analyzing the shotgun metagenome sequencing data IV and XVIII, Butyricoccus, Aquabacterium, Holdema- obtained from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) database, nia, Sphingomonas and Anaerotruncus were enriched in Yu et al. found significant differences in the diversity, abun- the PD patients gut compared to healthy controls. Among dance and composition of the gut microbiota of PD patients those flora, genera Butyricicoccus and Clostridium XlVb compared to healthy individuals . Notably, their study are related to cognitive impairment in PD patients. Further- in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced rat model of more, genera Escherichia/Shigella were negatively associ- PD also observed that gut microbiota dysbiosis exacerbated ated with PD duration . Taken together, those studies behavioral deficits and oxidative stress through inhibition indicate that gut dysbiosis is closely related to PD clinical of the expression of nicotinamide mononucleotide adeny- symptoms, and altering the gut microbiota may be a poten- lyl transferase 2 (NMNAT2), a key enzyme that catalyzes tially therapeutic option of PD. However, the relationship the synthesis of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) between the relative abundance of the microbiota and dis- from NMN . Previous studies have reported that ease progression in patients with PD is not consistent, pos- α-Syn pathologically overexpressed in intestinal tissues of sibly due to differences in methodology, race, region, age, PD mouse model . Thus, we speculated that the over- and other factors. For example, local diets vary between expression of α-Syn in the gut may be responsible for the different countries and regions, and different diets can lead increase in these genera, but further studies are needed to to significantly different compositions of the gut microbiota explore the metabolic activity of these genera with respect . to α-Syn and their interaction with ENS. Additionally, the In addition, gut dysbiosis has also been found in animal administration of drugs such as levodopa and entacapone models of PD. For example, in a mouse model of PD treated to PD patients also significantly affects the relative abun- with rotenone, 16 S rRNA sequencing of fecal microbiome dance of the genera Peptoniphilus, Finegoldia, Faecalibac- showed an overall decrease in bacterial diversity and sig- terium Fusicatenibacter, Anaerococcus, Bifidobacterium, nificant changes in microbial composition. Moreover, the Enterococcus and Ruminococcus. Whether these altera- changes of fecal microbiota composition induced by rote- tions in bacterial taxa affect the metabolism and absorption none were strongly associated with gastrointestinal and 1 3 566 Neurological Sciences
