Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


altera- changes of fecal microbiota composition induced by rote- tions in bacterial taxa affect the metabolism and absorption none were strongly associated with gastrointestinal and 1 3 566 Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578 motor dysfunction in mice . Likewise, gut microbial diffusion to the brain via the microbiota-gut-brain axis in alpha diversity was altered in rotenone-treated Sprague- LRRK2 mutant mice . Dawley rats. The genera Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria were increased, while genera Bacteroidetes, Cyanobacte- Gut microbiota and inflammation in PD ria and Firmicutes were decreased in rotenone-treated rats, which is relatively consistent with alternations reported The research community proposes that the development of in patients with PD . Gut microbiota could also pro- PD is accompanied by the activation of the innate immune mote α-Syn pathology, motor and GI dysfunction of the and adaptive immune systems, which changes dynamically thy1-aSyn-overexpressing (ASO) mouse . Additionally, with disease progression, contributing to neuronal degen- transplanting the gut microbiota derived from PD patients eration in the brain . Growing evidence suggests that gut into ASO mouse further aggravated the motor dysfunc- dysbiosis plays a key role in the development of neuroin- tion. This result further indicates that changes in the human flammatory and immune responses in PD (Fig. 1). microbiome may be a risk factor for PD duration. Recently, a study showed that the abundance of Escherichia coli (E. Gut microbiota, CNS inflammation and PD coli) was significantly increased in LRRK2 R1628P and phosphorylation of α-Syn caused by curli in E. coli-derived densely distributed in the SNpc and striatum of the brain extracellular vesicles. Moreover, E. coli administration involved in PD. It has been showed that overactivation of triggered pathologic α-Syn aggregation in the colon and microglia can lead to CNS inflammation and dopamine neuron damage . McGeer et al. first found human Fig. 1 A potential inflammatory mechanism of gut microbiota in PD. flammation by inducing FoxP3+- Treg cell differentiation. Adhesion Gut dysbiosis in PD can lead to accumulation of α-Syn in the gut, of the symbiotic mucosa-associated segmented filamentous bacterium which can enter the brain via the vagus nerve. Gut microbiota and (SFB) ‘Candidatus Arthromitus’ to intestinal epithelial cells acts on their metabolites modulate intestinal inflammation and activate astro- CD11c + cells in the lamina propria to stimulate the production and cytes and microglia, which in turn release pro-inflammatory factors release of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-23, and thereby stimulate the dif- leading to
