Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


the lamina propria to stimulate the production and cytes and microglia, which in turn release pro-inflammatory factors release of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-23, and thereby stimulate the dif- leading to dopaminergic neuronal damage. Cyclic SCFAs produced by ferentiation and activation of Th17 cells, which play an important role gut microbiota can enhance the integrity of the BBB. Furthermore, in the protection of intestinal barrier integrity and the maintenance of SCFAs and butyrate may inhibit intestinal inflammation and neuroin- intestinal homeostasis 1 3 Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578 567 leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR+ (a major histocompatibility mice overexpressed α-Syn . Interestingly, a significant complex class II (MHC-II) cell surface receptor) respon- reduction in the number of SCFA-producing bacteria and sive microglia in postmortem tissues of PD patients , fecal excretion of SCFA has also been detected in fecal sam- and the number of the HLA-DR+ microglia increased as ples from PD patients and animal models, which may be an the neuronal degeneration of the SNpc proceeded . In important mechanism for the abnormal neuroinflammation addition, α-Syn can activate microglia through the Toll-like in PD . receptor 4 (TLR4) or the TLR2 pathway and promote the The above studies have shown that microbial products production of pro-inflammatory factors such as nitric oxide and metabolites could promote the maturation and activa- (NO), and TNF and interferons(IF), which in turn produce tion of microglia, indicating that gut dysbiosis in PD patients toxic effects on dopaminergic neurons [107–109]. Similarly, may be an important mechanism for causing excessive CNS studies of patients with PD have also found elevated levels inflammation. Alteration of the microbial composition of of the proinflammatory cytokines related to the risk of PD PD patients through diet or medication may be a potential in the brain tissue and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), includ- method to improve the DAergic neurodegeneration induced ing TNFα, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, IL-6, and by the abnormal inflammation. IL-1β . These findings suggest that microglia overactivation plays an important role in neuroinflammation Gut microbiota, peripheral inflammation and PD and neurodegeneration in PD. Growing studies have suggested that the inflammation Dysregulation of both cellular immune responses and leading to neurodegeneration may be related to gut dys- humoral immune responses in the periphery has been biosis . Erny et al. found that a diverse gut observed in PD patients and animal models . Data morphology and immune function. The absence of a host shown
