Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


been biosis . Erny et al. found that a diverse gut observed in PD patients and animal models . Data morphology and immune function. The absence of a host shown that the pathological process of PD is associated with microbiota can lead to defects in microglia maturation, acti- alterations in the number and function of peripheral immune vation and differentiation as well as compromised immune cell populations. A study of samples from 41 patients with response to bacterial or viral infections . Within cau- PD showed that the phagocytic capacity of monocytes in doputamen (CP) and substantia nigra (SN), microglia in the peripheral blood of patients with early-moderate PD germ-free wild type (GF-WT) mice displays a maturation was increased compared with controls . In a mouse arrest and/or a reduced activation state, suggesting that model induced by overexpression of α-Syn, Harms et al. gut microbiota affect immune cells in the brain . Fur- observed that α-Syn induced microglia activation, antigen thermore, antibiotic-treated specific pathogen-free-alpha- presentation, IgG deposition and dopaminergic neuronal synuclein-overexpressing (SPF-ASO) mice display higher degeneration by upregulating MHCII expression in microg- maturation of microglia and significantly increased levels of lia. In the in vitro systems, they also found that aggregated the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-6 compared α-Syn activated the antigen processing and antigen presen- with germ-free-α-Syn-overexpressing (GF-ASO) mice, tation capacity of microglia, which in turn drove CD4 T indicating that gut microbiota can promote α-Syn-dependent cell proliferation and triggers the release of cytokines such activation of microglia . In MPTP-induced PD mouse as IL-1α, IFNγ, IL-1β, TNF and IL-10 . In addition, models, sodium butyrate, a short-chain fatty acid, was found they also found that α-Syn induced a robust infiltration of to attenuate PD-associated BBB disruption by upregulation CCR2+ peripheral monocytes into the SN, whereas dele- of occludin and zonula occludens (ZO)-1 . In addition, tion of CCR2 can prevent α-Syn-induced monocyte entry, an in vitro data showed that SCFAs protected the integrity of attenuate MHCII expression, and decrease degeneration the BBB through direct effects on endothelial cells and acti- of dopaminergic neurons, suggesting that extravasation of vation of anti-inflammatory pathways . Huuskonen et pro-inflammatory peripheral monocytes into the CNS play al. found that butyrate could induce an adaptative response an important role in neuroinflammation and neurodegenera- against microglial activation . Interestingly, butyrate tion in PD . There is an increase in effector/memory T performed a significant protective
