Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


adaptative response an important role in neuroinflammation and neurodegenera- against microglial activation . Interestingly, butyrate tion in PD . There is an increase in effector/memory T performed a significant protective effect on LPS-induced cells (Tem) and an impaired abilities of regulatory T cells inflammatory response in rat primary microglia. However, (Treg) to suppress effector T cell function in the peripheral in the transformed N9 microglial cell line, sodium butyr- blood of patients with PD, which linked to PD pathobiol- ate enhanced the LPS-induced inflammatory response and ogy and disease severity . A study in 2018 reported downregulateed the DNA binding capacity of NF-κB tran- that the number of T lymphocytes increased in postmortem scription factor induced by LPS stimulation . It has PD brain tissues. Furthermore, activated T lymphocytes been observed that SCFAs could promote the activation of producing IL-17 were found to promote neuronal death microglial cells and leaded to enhanced motor deficits in GF in autologous co-cultures of activated T lymphocytes and 1 3 568 Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578 iPSC-derived midbrain neurons of sporadic PD patients suppress neuroinflammation. In the mice colonized with . In addition, increased numbers of CD3+/CD4+ T cells the symbiotic mucosa-associated segmented filamentous near microglia and astrocytes were detected in the brains bacterium (SFB) ‘Candidatus Arthromitus’, Omenetti et al. of α-Syn transgenic models, implying that these infiltrating observed that adhesion of SFB to intestinal epithelial cells peripheral adaptive immune cells are involved in the process acted on CD11c+ cells in the lamina propria to stimulate the of activating immune cells in the CNS to enhance the neu- production and release of IL-6 and IL-23, and thereby stim- roinflammatory response . T helper (Th)17 cells are a ulated the differentiation and activation of Th17 cells, which subset of CD4+ T lymphocytes with strong proinflammatory played an important role in the protection of intestinal bar- property . In MPTP-induced PD mouse models, Th17 rier integrity and the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis cells were found to invade into SNpc where BBB was dis- . In the terminal ileum, commensal Th17 cells rupted . In addition, Th17 cells directly exacerbated induced by SFB exerted unique anti-inflammatory effects DAergic neuronal loss through LFA-1/ICAM-1 interaction and regulated effector T cell responses through expres- in MPP+-treated ventral mesencephalic (VM) cell cultures sion of transcription factor c-MAF and the cytokine IL-10 . CD4+CD25+ Tregs are a subpopulation of CD4+ T . Beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine
