Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


responses through expres- in MPP+-treated ventral mesencephalic (VM) cell cultures sion of transcription factor c-MAF and the cytokine IL-10 . CD4+CD25+ Tregs are a subpopulation of CD4+ T . Beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine (BMAA), a natural cells that specifically express the transcription factor FoxP3 proteinogenic diamino acid produced by cyanobacteria, dia- in the nucleus and CD25 and CTLA-4 on the cell surface, toms and methanogens, is usually detected in its free form and play essential functions in suppressing immune activa- . Although there is no evidence that human gut micro- tion and maintaining immune homeostasis and tolerance biota can produce BMAA, a study has reported that hyper- . CD3-activated Tregs were demonstrated to protect methylation in the promoter region of the SLC7A11 gene in against dopaminergic neuronal loss through inhibition of patients with PD is link to downregulation of the cysteine- microglial oxidative stress and inflammation induced by glutamate antiporter, a target of BMAA, which is thought to activated microglia in a MPTP mouse model of PD . be consistent with environmental risks related to PD . Recently, there is growing supports for the idea that intes- A recent study observed that mice were orally administered tinal inflammatory processes and gut-derived inflammation with BMAA for 12 weeks significantly reduced the abun- associated with dysbiosis play a pathogenic role in PD [130, dance of microbiota SFB in the ileal mucosa, leading to 131]. Several lines of evidence have shown that abnormally increased intestinal inflammation and loss of intestinal bar- altered gut microbiota in PD contributed to neuroinflamma- rier integrity. Surprisingly, BMAA treatment induced propa- tion and neurodegeneration by affecting the differentiation gation of α-Syn aggregates from the gut to the SN region and proliferation of T cells in the gut. Faecalibacterium of the brain via the vagus nerve, which in turn triggered and Roseburia, which are reduced in PD, produce butyr- neuroinflammation, dopaminergic neuron degeneration, ate, which exerts potent effects on many colonic mucosal and movement disorders . This leads to the conclusion functions such as inhibiting inflammation, reinforcing the that the regulation of Th17 by SFB may play a fundamental defense function of the colon and decreasing oxidative role in the progression of generation of α-Syn aggregates stress . Butyrate enhances the acetylation of and the occurrence of neuroinflammation, but further inves- Foxp3 protein and reduces the expression of pro-inflam- tigations are needed by more studies. Recently, it has been matory factors in
