Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


of and the occurrence of neuroinflammation, but further inves- Foxp3 protein and reduces the expression of pro-inflam- tigations are needed by more studies. Recently, it has been matory factors in dendritic cells (DCs) through inhibition found that Subgingival plaque (LIP SP) caused an increased of histone deacetylase (HDAC), thereby promoting Treg abundance of Veillonella parvula (V. parvula) and Strepto- production . Similarly, propionate, another SCFA coccus mutans (S. mutans) in the feces of MPTP-induced of microbial origin capable of HDAC inhibition, also pro- PD mice, leading to activation of microglia in the brain, and motes de novo Treg-cell generation in the periphery in vivo proliferation of T helper 1 (Th1) cells in the brain and gut. . In addition, it has been reported that SCFAs also can In V.parvula - and S.mutans -treated PD mice, administra- increase colonic Treg population size and function and pro- tion of IFNγ protected dopaminergic neurons from damage tect against colitis in a Ffar2(GPR43)-dependent manner caused by dysbiosis . . In colon, butyrate induces the differentiation of Treg cells and IL-10-producing CD4+ T cells through acting on the G protein-coupled receptor GPR109a which expressed Therapies targeting the gut microbiota in PD on dendritic cells and macrophages . Furthermore, butyrate can interact on the GPR109a receptor in colonic Several lines of evidence have identified gut microbiota epithelial cells and induce the production of IL-18, and disturbances in patients with PD, which can also affect subsequently suppresses colonic inflammation . Thus, levodopa absorption . In addition, several therapeutic a decrease in the abundance of butyrate-producing bacte- strategies targeting gut microbiota have been validated in ria in PD may exacerbate neurodegeneration by failing to preclinical animal models and PD patients with the aim of 1 3 Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578 569 improving symptoms and/or slowing progression of PD. In Natural small molecule compounds recent years several evidence have found that many drugs, natural small molecule compounds and deletion of inflam- Dihuang Granule mation-related genes also exert anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects by modulating the gut microbiota Compound Dihuang Granule (CDG) is another traditional (Table 2). Chinese medicine used in the treatment of PD. Several preclinical evidence has shown that CDG can effectively Drugs improve neurotoxin-induced upregulation of inflammatory factors, neuronal degeneration, motor dysfunction and GI Ceftriaxone dysfunction . Recently, it has been reported that orally administrated 10 g/kg/day CDG in PD mouse mod- Ceftriaxone is a new third-generation cephalosporin
