Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


neuronal degeneration, motor dysfunction and GI Ceftriaxone dysfunction . Recently, it has been reported that orally administrated 10 g/kg/day CDG in PD mouse mod- Ceftriaxone is a new third-generation cephalosporin com- els can ameliorate MPTP-induced gut microbial dysbiosis, against many Gram-negative and Gram-positive microor- ing the TLR4/NF-κB pathway, which in turn protected the ganisms . Recently, a study showed that intraperitoneal intestinal barrier responses . injection of ceftriaxone (200 mg/kg) for 7 days alleviated MPTP-induced activation of astroglia and microglia in the Curcumin substantia nigra, reduced the expression of neuroinflamma- tion-related TLR4, myeloid differentiation primary response Curcumin (CUR) is a low molecular weight polyphenol 88 (MyD88), and phosphorylated NF-κB (p-NF-κB) in the compound derived from turmeric that has been found to brain and colon of PD mice, and decreased the serum con- have anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anticancer proper- centration of IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α . They further ties . It was previously found that CUR exerts neu- demonstrated that ceftriaxone reduced the abundance of the roprotective effects in PD through inhibition of reactive Proteus genus and increased the abundance of Akkerman- oxygen species (ROS) production, microglial activation, sia, which suggests that ceftriaxone may exert neuroprotec- and production of α-Syn aggregation [153–155]. In addi- tive effects by regulating inflammation and gut microbiota tion, CUR can play a protective role in many diseases by . restoring microecological dysregulation and improving intestinal barrier function . Cui et al. found that Hua-Feng-Dan (HFD) given through intragastric administration of CUR (100 mg/ kg/day) daily for 4 weeks effectively improved MPTP- Hua-Feng-Dan (HFD) is a traditional Chinese medicine induced motor deficits, glial activation, and the aggregation containing a variety of components, which has been used to of α-Syn. The results from 16 S rRNA sequencing showed treat stroke and PD . Previous studies have indicated that the abundance of Muribaculaceae, Lactobacillaceae, that cinnabar and realgar were the main active components Lachnospiraceae, and Eggerthellaceae was increased, of HFD in in vitro . In a chronic LPS plus rote- while the abundance of Aerococcaceae and Staphylococ- none (ROT)-induced rat model, Chen et al. found that the caceae was decreased in CUR-treated mice compared with HFD-original (containing 10% cinnabar and 10% realgar, MPTP mice. Furthermore, serum metabolomics analysis 0.06 g/kg/d) rescued LPS-and ROT-induced loss of DA neu- showed that CUR treatment resulted in a rapid increase in rons, improved motor dysfunction of the rats and attenu- tyrosine and levodopa
