Neurological Sciences (2025) 46:561–578
KEYWORDS: gut, microbiota, patients, gut microbiota, cells, study, mice, intestinal, immune, microglia, motor, syn, abundance, genera, inflammation


was signaling pathway, which further inhibited bile acid-medi- upregulated and co-localized with phosphorylated α-Syn ated oxidative stress and neuroinflammation, significantly in DA neuronal LBs and Iba-1 in glial cells . Perez- improving the pathological phenotype of PD mice . Pardo et al. found increased expression of TLR4, CD3+ T cells, cytokine in colonic biopsies and decreased abundance Resveratrol of SCFAs-producing bacteria in patients with PD. Intestinal inflammation, motor dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and Resveratrol, a polyphenol compound found in many plant neurodegeneration were less in rotenone-treated TLR4-KO species, has a variety of biological properties including mice compared to rotenone-treated WT mice . However, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anticancer and neuroprotec- deletion of TLR4 leaded to a ‘pro-inflammatory’ dysbiotic tive properties . Experimental studies in in vitro and in microbiota, including decreased relative abundance of the vivo have shown the neuroprotective effects of resveratrol anti-inflammatory genera Bifidobacterium and/or Lactoba- on PD . Many studies of the pharmacological function cillus and increased relative abundance of the pro-inflam- of resveratrol found that most of resveratrol could not be matory intestinal bacterial genera unclassified Rickettsia, absorbed in the small intestine, but it could interact with the Coccidioides, and Lactobacillus, which may be the reason gut microbiota, regulate the composition of the gut microbi- that TLR4 deficiency could not completely protect against ota, and undergo biotransformation to active metabolites via rotenone-induced PD pathology . Further interventional the gut microbiota [170–173]. FMT from resveratrol-treated studies, such as fecal transplantation or gene silencing of (30 mg/kg/day) PD mice to MPTP-induced PD mouse the TLR4 pathway, are required to establish a direct link models showed that FMT could increase the abundance between microbiota, TLR4, gut and CNS inflammation, and of Prevotellaceae, Rikenellaceae, and Erysipelotrichaceae neurodegeneration in PD. genera, decreased the ratios of Fimicutes/Bacteroidetes and the abundance of Lachnospiraceae and Akkermansia gen- Limitations era, which may contribute to the neuroprotective effects in PD through increasing the number of TH-positive neurons A large number of preclinical studies have demonstrated in the SNpc and enriched TH-positive fiber density in the that some drugs and small molecules have protective effects striatum . on DA neuron damage in PD by affecting the composition and abundance of gut microbiota. We have summarized and TLR2 and TLR4 discussed their roles in this review, but we have not con- ducted a direct and critical comparison between the differ- Toll-like receptors (TLRs), a family of pattern recogni- ent therapies discussed to
