C R A
KEYWORDS: bowel, patients, ileostomy, etal, fig, endoscopy, stoma, stricture, disease, strictures, pouch, endoscopic, stricturoplasty, performed, dilation


Stomacomplications(hernia,retraction,prolapse,stenosis) Whenperformingendoscopythroughastoma,weposition Endoscopictherapy the patient in a supine position, preferably with the ostomy side Stricture closertotheendoscopist.Aprotectivechuxsheetwithanopening Fistula created for the stoma site should be placed on the abdomen. Anastomoticleakorsinus The various diagnostic modalities available to assess the Cancersurveillance small bowel in CD include capsule enteroscopy (CE), magnetic Divertedcolon,rectumorilealpouch resonance enterography, CT enterography, and enteroscopy. In arecentmeta-analysis,CEwasshowntohaveabetterdiagnostic 1460 | www.ibdjournal.org InflammBowelDis(cid:1) Volume21,Number6,June2015 EndoscopyinIBDPatientswithSurgery TABLE 3. Patient Preparation BowelPreparation Diagnostic Therapeutic BowelAnatomy Procedure Procedure Sedation Endoscope SpecialRemarks Ileoscopy/Jejunostomy Clearliquiddiet Clearliquiddiet Conscioussedation Adultgastroscope Aspirationrisk throughstoma Colostomythrough Fullprep Fullprep Conscioussedation Pediatriccolonoscope stoma Defunctionedbowel None None None Adultgastroscope Superficialbiopsies Stricturoplasty Fullprep Fullprep Conscioussedation Adultgastroscopeor Aspirationrisk.Balloon- pediatriccolonoscope assistedenteroscopy Bypasssurgery None None Conscioussedation Adultgastroscopeorpediatric colonoscope Fullprep,PEG-basedfullcolonoscopypreparation. yield in suspected and established CD than CT enterography. small intestine through ileostomy or jejunostomy, ileal pouches, MagneticresonanceenterographyappearstobesuperiortoCEin divertedordefunctionedlargebowelorilealpouch,andbypassed theassessmentofestablishedCD.However,theCEstudiesinthis smallbowel.Forpatientswithcolostomy,apediatriccolonoscope meta-analysis excluded patients with strictures or suspected is often used because it provides a longer insertion length. obstruction due to risk of capsule retention; and hence, these Flexiblesigmoidoscopehasalargerdiameterthanthegastroscope results cannot be extrapolated to the postsurgical patients with but it can provide an additional degree of angulation with better IBD in whom capsule retention is a concern.19,20 Another draw- visualization of structures with retroflexion close to the anus or back of CE and imaging modalities is inability to obtain tissue the nipple valve in the continent ileostomy. biopsy and perform therapy. In patients with history of stricturoplasty and bypass For the direct visualization of the bowel in postsurgical surgery when deeper insertion is required, enteroscopy can be patientswithIBD,variousendoscopictechniquescanbeusedfor performedbypushenteroscopeorBAE.Thelatterincludesingle diagnosis and therapy. Because of its flexibility and smaller balloon enteroscope, double balloon enteroscope (DBE), and caliber, a gastroscope is the preferred tool for evaluation of the spiral enteroscope.21,22 Single balloon enteroscope (Olympus, FIGURE 1. CT before the procedure helps delineate the bowel anatomy. Imaging showing (A) proximal small bowel stricture and upstream dilation.B,stricture(greenarrow)atpreviousstricturoplastysite. www.ibdjournal.org | 1461 SinhandShen InflammBowelDis(cid:1) Volume21,Number6,June2015 Tokyo, Japan) and DBE (EN-450T5; Fujinon, Saitama, Japan) intubating the bowel through stoma, a careful inspection of the have a 200-cm tube length with 2.8-cm working channel and surrounding area should be performed for stoma prolapse, stoma 140-cm overtube. The DBE has an inflatable balloon in addition retraction, fistulous tract, and skin lesions, such as stoma ulcers totheballoonatthetipoftheovertubetohelpstabilizeandpleat and pyoderma gangrenosum33 (Fig. 2C, D). thesmallboweloverthescope.ApreviousCEexaminationmay If there is significant looping of the scope, abdominal assistindeterminingthedirectionofBAE(antegradethroughoral pressureappliedbyanendoscopyassistantaroundthestomasite or retrograde through anal approach) and maximize the yield of facilitates passage of scope. During endoscopy,
