C R A
KEYWORDS: bowel, patients, ileostomy, etal, fig, endoscopy, stoma, stricture, disease, strictures, pouch, endoscopic, stricturoplasty, performed, dilation


during retrograde ileoscopy through stoma in patients after CD surgery.13 End Ileostomy Patients with UC who undergo total colectomy and IPAA can End ileostomy will have a single stoma opening and is develop pouch failure and may end up with permanent ileostomy typically performed for the purpose of permanent fecal diversion forfecaldiversionthatmayrequireendoscopicevaluationandstric- (Figs.3Cand4C).Ofnote,theboweljustproximaltothestoma turetherapy.32Hence,giventhehighrateofrecurrenceaftersurgery, maybenarrowduetoextrinsiccompressionfromthesurrounding endoscopyshouldberoutinelyperformedinpostsurgicalpatientsto skinormuscleoftheabdominalwall.Thisshouldnotbeconfused evaluatefordiseaserecurrence andperformstricture therapy. with a bowel stricture. Surgical stoma revision, rather than bal- After creation of a new stoma, it is prudent to defer loon dilation of a marked stomal stenosis, is recommended. endoscopythroughstomaforatleast4weeksafterthesurgery.If the patient’s history is suggestive of stoma retraction or obstruc- Continent Ileostomies tion,inspecting andassessing thestoma diameterbefore thepro- Patients with UC may undergo total abdominal colectomy cedure will ensure that the correct endoscope is used. Before with a continent ileostomy instead of end ileostomy or pelvic 1462 | www.ibdjournal.org InflammBowelDis(cid:1) Volume21,Number6,June2015 EndoscopyinIBDPatientswithSurgery FIGURE2. Inspectionofperianalandperistomalareashouldbeperformedbeforeintubationwithascope:(A)peristomalulcers;(B)ileostomy prolapse;(C)perianaldermatitisinapatientwithpersistentdiversionproctitis;(D)perianalfistulainapatientwithdivertedilealpouchforCD. pouch.Continentileostomies, suchasKockpouch(Fig.5A)can should be performed in the pouch body to evaluate the nipple be complicated by parastomal hernia, stenosis, fistula at the base valve, which can have stricture, ulceration, or fistula at the base. ofthenipplevalve,inletorafferentlimbstrictures,andpouchitis. Ifdifficultyisencounteredinintubatingthepouchinletorafferent Periodic endoscopic evaluation is needed for diagnosis and ther- limbduetotheloopingofendoscope,turningthepatienttoalat- apy.Duringintubation,thescopetraversesthenipplevalvethatis eral position facing the endoscopist or applying abdominal pres- present at the pouch outlet (distal end of the pouch close to the sure by the assistant may help. skin). An average pouch body is about 7 to 10 cm in length and BCIRisavariantoftheKockpouchwherealoopofsmall leads to the pouch inlet and afferent limb. A careful retroflexion boweliswrappedaroundthepouchoutlettoaugmentcontinence FIGURE3. Diagrammaticrepresentationofvarioustypesofileostomies:(A)loopileostomy;(B)loop-endileostomy;(C)endileostomy. www.ibdjournal.org | 1463 SinhandShen InflammBowelDis(cid:1) Volume21,Number6,June2015 FIGURE4. Endoscopicviewsofvariousileostomies.A,Loopileostomywithopeningforafferentlimb(largerstoma)andefferentlimb(smaller stoma)(greenarrows).B,Blindefferentlimbofloop-endileostomy.C,Singlestomaopeningofendileostomy. of the ileostomy (Fig. 5B). During endoscopic evaluation on ret- should not be mistaken for a stoma, and endoscopic intubation roflexion, an opening to the loop of small bowel is present adja- should be avoided. cent to the pouch outlet. This should not be confused with the pouch inlet and afferent limb. Pouchitis and pouch stricture can Blow-hole Colostomy occur in BCIR. In cases of fulminant colitis or toxic megacolon if the bowel is not healthy enough for colectomy, temporary loop End Colostomy colostomy is created to decompress the bowel and divert the Anendcolostomyiscreatedfordiseasedorstrictureddistal fecal stream. The afferent and efferent limbs will lead in to large bowel. The stoma is usually placed on the left side of the theproximalanddistallargebowels,respectively(Fig.6C).The abdominalwallandcanbeintubatedwithapediatriccolonoscope patientseventuallyhaveacompletioncolectomywithorwithout (Fig. 6A). Mucosa should be examined for disease activity and ileal pouch. stricture.Asuccessfulcolonoscopythroughstomashouldinclude intubation and evaluation of the ileocecal valve and
