C R A
KEYWORDS: bowel, patients, ileostomy, etal, fig, endoscopy, stoma, stricture, disease, strictures, pouch, endoscopic, stricturoplasty, performed, dilation


on the left side of the theproximalanddistallargebowels,respectively(Fig.6C).The abdominalwallandcanbeintubatedwithapediatriccolonoscope patientseventuallyhaveacompletioncolectomywithorwithout (Fig. 6A). Mucosa should be examined for disease activity and ileal pouch. stricture.Asuccessfulcolonoscopythroughstomashouldinclude intubation and evaluation of the ileocecal valve and terminal ileum. ENDOSOCPY FOR DIVERTED AND DEFUNCTIONED BOWEL Mucous Fistula and Ileostomy Temporary fecal diversion of the IPAA or large bowel is When diverting ileostomy is performed in cases of severe performedinIBDpatientstoreducetheriskofanastomoticleak colonic inflammation, there is a high chance of leak from the in IPAA or to treat refractory disease of the distal large bowel, distalrectalstumpfromtheinflamedsutureorstapleline.Hence, perianal disease, strictures, and fistulas. Endoscopic evaluation the proximal end of the distal colonic segment is attached to the of the diverted bowel is done for symptoms or for ensuring fascia of the abdominal wall in the midline through a mucous that there is no stricture or anastomotic leak before stoma fistulatoavoidperitonitisincaseofaleak.Thisisinadditionto closure. For patients with permanent fecal diversion, dysplasia the ileostomy stoma. The prior evaluation of surgical report is surveillance of the diverted large bowel should be routinely helpful to understand the anatomy (Fig. 6B). The mucus fistula performed.34,35 FIGURE5. Normalendoscopicviewsofcontinentileostomieswithretroflexionoftheendoscopeinthepouch.A,Kockpouchwithsmallulceration atthenipplevalve(greenarrow).B,BCIRwithopeningofaloopofsmallbowel(greenarrow)aroundthevalvethataugmentscontinenceofthe ileostomy. 1464 | www.ibdjournal.org InflammBowelDis(cid:1) Volume21,Number6,June2015 EndoscopyinIBDPatientswithSurgery FIGURE6. Diagrammaticrepresentationofvarioustypesofcolostomies:(A)endcolostomy;(B)mucousfistulawithileostomy;(C)“blow-hole”loop colostomy. Diverted Large Bowel be avoided. In patients with loop ileostomy, the diverted large The presence of mild erythema, friability, exudate, bowelmaybeconnectedtotheefferentlimboftheostomy.When and ulceration in the diverted large bowel, i.e., diversion colitis performing endoscopy through anus air insufflation should orproctitis,iscommon(Fig.7A).36Thefriablemucosaisproneto be minimized and stoma bag left open to avoid over distention spontaneous bleeding, and hence deep or jumbo biopsies should of the bowel. FIGURE7. Endoscopicevaluationofdivertedbowel.A,severeerythema,friability,andedemaofdivertedcolon(diversioncolitis).B,Fecalbezoar inadivertedcolon.C,Tightstrictureindivertedbowelthatcannotbetraversedwithanendoscope.D,Aguidewireisusedtoassessthestricture fordepthorfistulousopening. www.ibdjournal.org | 1465 SinhandShen InflammBowelDis(cid:1) Volume21,Number6,June2015 FIGURE8. Contrastedx-rayimaging(lateralview)ofstricturesindivertedbowel.A,Divertedcolonwithdistalstricture.B,DivertedJpouchwith aloopileostomyanddistalpouchstricture. Inflammation or long term non-use can lead to mild-to- delineate the anatomy on the other side of a tight stricture (Fig. severe stricture of the diverted bowel. A moderate-to-severe 7C,D).Aretrograde(throughanus)orantegrade(throughstoma) stricture,evenifasymptomatic,shouldbetreatedbeforeestablish- contrast x-ray may help delineate anatomy of the diverted bowel ing continuity of the bowel as it can predispose to outlet (Fig. 8A). In cases where endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD) is obstruction and fecal bezoar (Fig. 7B). A severe stricture can unsuccessful, NKSt can be attempted (Fig. 9). sometimes be mistaken for an orifice of a fistula. A pre- endoscopy pelvic imaging study, such as magnetic resonance Diverted Ileal Pouch imagingorwater-contrastedenema,maybehelpfulinsuchaset- After the creation of IPAA, temporary fecal diversion is ting. During endoscopy, a soft guide-wire may be used to oftenneededaspartofthestagedrestorativeproctocolectomyoras FIGURE9. Therapyfortightstricturesindivertedbowel.A,Tightanastomoticstricturebeforeballoondilation.B,Post-balloondilation.C,Tight anastomoticstricturebeforeneedle-knifetherapy.D,Post–needle-knifetherapy. 1466 | www.ibdjournal.org InflammBowelDis(cid:1) Volume21,Number6,June2015 EndoscopyinIBDPatientswithSurgery atreatmentapproachforthosewithrefractorypouchitis,CDofthe stricturoplasty site, multiple strictures
