Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, hepatitis, thailand, study, treatment, knowledge, health, screening, agree, disease, diagnosis, diseases, index, hcv, medicine


hepatolo- as direct acting antivirals (DAAs) also reportedly resulted in a gistsfromthe11countries/territoriesreviewedandfinalizedthe significant reduction in HCV global incidence and associated developed questionnaire (Lee Mei-Hsuan et al, unpublished complications.Theintroductionoftheseregimens,especially data). The 30-minute survey questionnaire was developed in interferon-free DAAs regimen, as part of Thailand’s Universal English and translated into local language(s), that is, Thai, for Health Care’s benefit package together with an increased respondents in Thailand. The translation was validated by a awareness and precautionary measures against blood-borne linguist whoisa nativespeaker ofthelanguage. pathogens such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and Herein, this study reports the responses from eligible Thai changes in intravenous drug use-oral illicit methamphetamine respondents, whereby all respondents completed the question- usagecouldpotentiallycontributetothenation’sdecreasing naire in either English or Thai. Only de-identified data was HCV prevalence. collected. The protocol and questionnaire for the study (#20- Despite successful reduction in age-standardized incidence KANT-214) were reviewed for exemption by the Pearl ratesofhepatitis-relatedlivercancerinThailand,studiesshowed Institutional Review Board (IRB) as part of a regional liver thereisanage-dependentassociationofviralhepatitisseroposi- index study (Lee Mei-Hsuan et al, unpublished data) and was tivity. The seroprevalence of HBV and HCV in Thailand determined to be exempted from IRB review for the periods of washigheramongolderadults(aged31–60years)thanyounger whichthedataisusedinthecurrentstudy.Thisonlinesurveyis adults ((cid:1)30years). Moreover, incidences of liver cirrhosis deemed noninterventional and online informed consent was and/or liver cancer due to CHB and CHC were more common obtained fromallparticipants included in thestudy. among middle-aged to older adults and these individuals were Tounderstandifbeingbornbeforeoraftertheimplementation typically diagnosed at advanced stages of the disease.[13–15] As of HBV vaccination into the EPI would affect the respondents’ individualsafflictedwithviralhepatitis-relatedliverdiseasesare knowledgetowardhepatitisB,thestudypopulationwasfurther generallyasymptomatic,alargeproportionoftheseindividuals categorized into 2 subgroups – individuals born before EPI are unaware and tend to go undiagnosed until presented at inclusion (≥25years), and individuals born after EPI inclusion advanceddiseasestages.Thispotentiallysuggeststhataccess (<25years). to treatment and effective prevention is strongly influenced by publicawarenessandknowledgetowarddiagnosisandtreatment 2.3. Survey questionnaireandLiver index as wellas thenation’s priority onthehealth policyagenda. However, there had been limited research exploring the Thequestionnaireinthisstudy(Appendix,SupplementalDigital knowledge, attitude, and behavior among the Thai population Content, comprised of 25 toward hepatitis-related liver diseases. Therefore, this study questions from the regional liver index study (Lee Mei-Hsuan sought to quantify and evaluate the level of knowledge and etal,unpublisheddata)and6additionalquestionsspecifictothe awareness among the local community toward liver health and Thai community. The internal consistency of the 25 questions Phisalprapaetal.Medicine(2021)100:51 www.md-journal.com from the regional liver index study were assessed by Cronbach Table1 alpha (alpha > 0.7) and were used to develop the overall liver Characteristicsofrespondents(n=500). index (LeeMei-Hsuan et al,unpublished data).
