Medicine
KEYWORDS: liver, hepatitis, thailand, study, treatment, knowledge, health, screening, agree, disease, diagnosis, diseases, index, hcv, medicine


the not know about the scheme(s) coverage due to lack of public community’sawarenesstowardnationalvaccinationpolicyand promotion. This could account for the finding that 35.6% had thesuccessfulreductioninHBVprevalenceinThailand.This interesting to note that more than half cited that “prescription appears consistent with findings by Darwish et al, whereby medicine is expensive” as a reason for not receiving treatment vaccinationstatushadnoimpactontheknowledgeonhepatitisB when treatment costs incurred under these health insurance among medical students although it was accounted for by the schemes are covered by the Thai government. Although gain for hepatitis-related knowledge during their medical antiviral therapy for CHB has been covered by all health training. Additional studies would be required to explore this insuranceschemesforalongtime,oralantiviraltherapyforCHC observationinthegeneralpopulation.Furthermore,thereisalso is recently covered this year as part of the viral hepatitis a need to improve the attitude and behaviors of the Thai eradication goals in Thailand. This potentially suggests that Phisalprapaetal.Medicine(2021)100:51 Medicine many are unaware of government support for the treatment of under-represented. As such, further investigation with larger viralhepatitis.Reasonsinfluencingthiswasnotexploredinthis studypopulationiswarranted.Thailandismadeupofdifferent study andwouldwarrant further investigation. regionswithhighandlowprevalenceofHBVandHCV.[3,40–42] There was a similar proportion of individuals receiving Respondents in these regions could have varying levels of hepatitis treatment in the form of prescription medication awareness and knowledge toward liver diseases as well as (59.1%) and functional foods (51.8%). Furthermore, at least different attitudes and behaviors toward screening, diagnosis, one-quartersoughtoutherbalproducts(traditionaltreatment)or and treatment, which could have an impact on the liver index homeopathy for treating hepatitis. In a 2019 study, 32.6% of score.Factorsinfluencingthiscouldbefurtherexploredinfuture Thaiworkerpopulationusedherbalandtraditionalmedicinesin studies. the treatment of chronic diseases including liver diseases. Another cross-sectional study on herbal medicine usage associ- 5. Conclusion atedthehighprevalenceofherbalmedicineusagewitheducation, rural residence, low quality of life and multiple chronic The study highlights a degree of misperception and lack of in- conditions.ThisisaconcernasHBVandHCVareeffectively depth understanding toward hepatitis (especially HCV) related managed through antiviral drug treatments, which typically liver diseases. Findings also implied poor attitudes and need to educate the general population and promote commu- diseases.Moreeffortswouldberequiredtoraisetheawarenessof nicationsbetweenthehealth-careprofessionalsandthecommu- government support for screening tests and treatment of viral nity on theeffective management of HBVand HCV. hepatitistoaddresscost-relatedbarriers.Furthermore,basedon Multivariateanalysisidentifiedincome,recenthealthscreening the factors identified by multivariate analysis, there is an status and being diagnosed with liver disease(s) as significant implication to encourage proactive health-seeking behaviors predictors of the awareness and knowledge of liver health and such as health screening for early diagnosis and treatment and disease(s)aswellastheattitudetowardscreening,diagnosis,and promoteprecautionarymeasurestofacilitatereducingtransmis- treatment.Similartootherstudies,higherincomewasassociated sionrisks withinthe community. with better knowledge, attitude, and behavior toward liver- relatedhealthanddiseases.Recenthealthscreeningcanbe whereby respondents seized opportunities for early diagnosis The authors acknowledge the valuable
