Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


14-1 illustrates the steps through which pregnancy induces a specific challenge for the thyroid gland and the profound difference between glandular adaptation in conditions with iodine sufficiency or deficiency. Figure 14- 1 From physiological adaptation to pathological alterations of the thyroidal economy during pregnancy. The scheme illustrates the sequence of events occurring for the maternal thyroid gland, emphasizing the role of iodine deficiency to stimulate the thyroidal machinery (from Glinoer, Ref 1). Early in pregnancy there is an increase in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration which lead to an increase in iodide clearance from plasma (1,16). This results in a fall in plasma iodine concentrations and an increase in iodide requirements from the diet . In women with iodine sufficiency there is little thyroid impact of the obligatory increase in renal iodine losses, because the intrathyroidal iodine stores are plentiful at the time of conception and they remain unaltered throughout gestation. Pregnancy does not have a major influence on circulating iodine concentrations in iodine-sufficient regions. It should be noted, however, that the iodine excretion levels were unusually high in this study, ranging between 459-786 µg/day (17). In regions where the iodine supply is borderline or low, the situation is clearly different and significant changes occur during pregnancy (1). Historic studies of radioiodine uptake have shown an increase (18). In addition, there is a further increment in iodine requirements, due to transplacental iodide transport necessary for iodothyronine synthesis by the fetal thyroid gland (19), which becomes progressively functional after the first trimester. When pregnancy takes place in conditions with borderline iodine availability, significant increments in both maternal and fetal thyroid volume occur, if no supplemental iodine is given during early pregnancy (20). Thus during pregnancy, the physiologic changes that take place in maternal thyroid economy lead to an increase in thyroid hormone production of ~50% above preconception baseline hormone production. In order to achieve the necessary increment in hormone production, the iodine intake needs to be increased during early pregnancy. Iodine deficiency present at critical stages during pregnancy and early childhood results in impaired development of the brain and consequently in impaired mental function (8,21). Iodine deficiency worldwide is a major cause of neurointellectual impairment and is discussed in detail in chapter 20.Although a variety of methods exists for the correction of iodine deficiency, the most commonly accepted and applied method is universal salt iodization (USI), i.e., the addition of
