Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


in chapter 20.Although a variety of methods exists for the correction of iodine deficiency, the most commonly accepted and applied method is universal salt iodization (USI), i.e., the addition of suitable amounts of potassium iodide (or iodate) to all salt for human and livestock consumption. A WHO committee recommended appropriate iodine intakes for pregnant and lactating women as well as for children (Table 14-2) (22) Table14- 2 . Recommended iodine intake during pregnancy and lactation and categorization of iodine nutrition adequacy based on urinary iodine excretion View in own window Population Group Median Urinary Iodine conc. Category of Iodine intake Pregnant women 250 μg/d Lactating women 250 μg/d Pregnant women < 150 μg/L Insufficient 150 – 249 μg/L Adequate 250 – 499 μg/L More than adequate > 500 μg/L Excessive Lactating women < 100 μg/L Insufficient > 100 μg/L Adequate (but see below) Patients with known or underlying autoimmune thyroid disorders or autonomous thyroid tissue may have side effects from excessive iodine intake, There is no clear evidence to define “how much more iodine may become too much iodine.” A recommendation was adopted to indicate that there is no proven further benefit in providing pregnant women with more than twice the daily RNI (recommended nutritional intake). During breast-feeding, thyroid hormone production and urinary iodine excretion return to normal, but iodine is efficiently concentrated by the mammary gland. Since breast milk provides approximately 100 µg/d of iodine to the infant, it is recommended that the breast-feeding mother should continue to take 250 µg per day of iodine (see Table 14-2). Although substantial progress has been made in the worldwide correction of iodine deficiency mainly by increasing the universal salt iodisation Nevertheless there have been many studies and reports from different world regions demonstrating the resurgence of iodine deficiency in pregnant women despite previous successful public health strategies to correct population deficiencies of the element. Therefore iodine deficiency requires constant monitoring, even after the implementation of iodine supplementation in pregnant women. Recently, iodine deficiency has re emerged in Australia and the UK and even in USA there are groups of the population with suboptimal iodine levels (24-26). The importance of iodine deficiency in pregnancy on childhood IQ has been emphasized (27). In addition there is increasing evidence of the benficial effect of iodine supplementation before and during pregnancy in ameliorating this problem (27) Metabolism Of Iodine During Normal Pregnancy After reduction to
