Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


to produce TH, indispensable for the adequate development of the fetus. In summary, augmentation of iodide trapping is the fundamental mechanism by which the thyroid adapts to changes in the iodine supply, and such mechanism is the key to understanding thyroidal adaptation to iodine deficiency. During pregnancy, increased hormone requirements and iodine losses alter the preconception steady-state. When the iodine supply is restricted (or more severely deficient), pregnancy triggers a vicious circle that leads to excessive glandular stimulation (27). Figure 14-2 Schematic representation of the kinetics of iodide in healthy non-pregnant and pregnant adults. Panel A: non-pregnant adult with an adequate iodine intake of 150 µg/day. Panel B: non-pregnant adult with a restricted iodine intake, corresponding to 70 µg/day. Panel C: the latter condition is compared with an identically restricted level of iodine intake (i.e. 70 µg/day) in a pregnant woman. Daily TH production was set at 80 µg of iodine/day (in non-pregnant) and increased by 1.5-fold to 120 µg/day during pregnancy (from Glinoer, Ref 27). Goiter Formation In Mother And Progeny Iodine deficiency during pregnancy, even when considered to be only mild, results in prolonged enhanced thyroidal stimulation and leads to goitrogenesis in both mother and fetus (1). Pregnancy may therefore be considered as an ‘environmental’ factor to induce thyroid pathology in areas with a marginally reduced iodine intake. While goiter formation is not observed in pregnant women who reside in iodine-sufficient regions such as in the USA, several studies from Europe have shown that the thyroid volume (TV) increases significantly during pregnancy (1). In European regions with a sufficient iodine intake, changes in TV remain minimal (10-15% on the average), consistent mainly with vascular thyroid swelling during pregnancy (28). In other European regions with a lower iodine intake, observed changes were much larger, with TV increments ranging between 20-35% on the average, and many women exhibiting a doubling in thyroid size between 1st trimester and term (29,30). In Brussels for instance before iodine supplementation was systematically prescribed, almost 10% of women developed a goiter during pregnancy, which was only partially reversible after parturition (31). In fact there is a high prevalence of thyroid disorders in this region associated with mild iodine deficiency (32). Precise measurements of TV in newborns of these mothers indicated that TVs were 40% larger in newborns from non supplemented mothers (compared with newborns from iodine-supplemented mothers), and thyroid hyperplasia already present in 10% of
