Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


newborns of these mothers indicated that TVs were 40% larger in newborns from non supplemented mothers (compared with newborns from iodine-supplemented mothers), and thyroid hyperplasia already present in 10% of these infants soon after birth (compared with none in newborns from the iodine-receiving mothers) (33). Goitrogenesis associated with pregnancy may be one of the environmental factors explaining the preponderance of goiters in the female population. There is an association between parity and thyroid volume in an iodine deficient area (34) and this may be accentuated by active smoking(35) Rarely, a pre-existing goiter may increase in size abruptly during gestation, leading to tracheal compression and respiratory symptoms due partly to intrathyroidal hemorrhage (36,37). The biochemical markers of enhanced thyroidal stimulation during an otherwise normal pregnancy, when iodine deficiency is present. are firstly relative hypothyroxinemia ( serum free T4 concentrations near (or below) the lower limit of the gestational reference range); Preferential T3 secretion (reflected by an elevated total T3/T4 molar ratio) and a progressive rise in TSH to reach levels that are twice (or even higher) the preconception serum TSH levels (38). In mild to moderate iodine deficiency conditions, serum thyroglobulin (Tg) increases progressively during gestation, so that at delivery, two thirds of women may have supra-normal Tg concentrations. Tg increments correlate well with gestational goitrogenesis, and hence constitute a useful prognostic marker of goiter formation, and its prevention by iodine supplementation (33). The best single parameter to evaluate the adequacy of iodine nutrition in a population is provided by measurements of the urinary iodine excretion (UIE) levels in a representative sample of the population. Although UIE is highly useful for public health estimations of iodine intake in populations, UIE alone is not a valid diagnostic criterion in individuals. Therefore, in the individual at risk of iodine deficiency the markers of thyroid stimulation already described are the best indicators of thyroid stress. Treatment and Prevention of Maternal Goiter in Pregnancy In countries with a longstanding and well-established USI program, pregnant women are not at risk of having iodine deficiency. Therefore, no systematic dietary fortification needs to be organized in the population. It should, however, be recommended individually to women to use vitamin/mineral tablets specifically prepared for pregnancy requirements and containing iodine supplements. In countries without an efficient USI program, or with an established USI program where the coverage is known to be only recent or partial, complementary approaches are required to
