Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


function can be observed (33). Even then, despite iodine supplementation, iodine sufficiency may not be attained by all pregnant women (40). Because of the advocacy for salt restriction to reduce cardiovascular mortality a debate has ensued whereby use of iodinated salt seemed to be at odds with this strategy. However, simply increasing the iodine concentration in the salt can accommodate both the reduction in salt intake and the requirement to provide iodine in this way. This strategy has recently been endorsed by WHO (41). Importantly, it has also emerged that insufficient iodine status is associated with poorer neurocognitive outcome in the offspring. While this has been accepted for many decades in relation to severe iodine (42) deficiency it is now seen to be the case in areas of mild iodine deficiency (43-45). The is accruing evidence that iodine supplementation in pregnancy even in women with mild iodine deficiency is beneficial in improving neurocognitive outcome in the child (46). Finally, caution is needed to avoid iodine excess to the fetal (47) as well as the maternal (48) thyroid. The fetal thyroid gland is exquisitely sensitive to the inhibitory effects of high iodine concentrations, and a recent study showed that inhibitory effects of high iodine loads could lead to opposite variations in maternal and neonatal thyroid function, i.e. with facilitation of thyroid function in the mother but aggravation in the neonate (49). Figure 14-3 Randomized clinical trial with placebo versus KI (100 µg iodine/day) or KI + l-T4 (100 µg iodine/day and 100 µg T4/day) given during pregnancy in women with moderate iodine deficiency and laboratory features of thyroidal stimulation. In the placebo-treated group, TV increased by a mean 30% and goiter formation occurred in 75% of the women. In both actively-treated groups, the increments in TV were significantly reduced (to only 15% and 8%), as was goiter formation (from Glinoer, Ref 33). In areas with severe iodine deficiency, iodine supplements have been administered to pregnant women using iodized salt, potassium iodide drops and iodized oil (given intramuscularly or orally), as emergency prophylactic and therapeutic approaches to avoid endemic cretinism. Several such programs have conclusively demonstrated their remarkable efficiency to prevent and treat endemic goiter, as well as to eradicate endemic cretinism (8). The results of such studies have indicated that pregnant women who reside in severely iodine-deficient regions can adequately be managed with iodine supplementation. However, except for emergency situations, there
