Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


the patient’s circulating T4 could be bound to TBG: ~50%. When the patient became pregnant, her TBG deficiency was still partially responsive to estrogen induction and TBG increased 3-fold to ~240 nmol/L and total T4 to ~90 nmol/L. In other words, her total T4 concentrations had to be raised by ~30% (via an increase in thyroxine replacement), hence allowing to restore a TBG binding saturation level by T4 of ~35%, equivalent to what is observed at the onset of pregnancy in non-TBG-deficient women. Thus, the increment required in l-T4 dosage was precisely of the same proportion than that anticipated from the partial rise in serum TBG during pregnancy. Figure 14-5 The upper panel illustrates the rapid changes that occur in serum total binding capacity of TBG during the first half of gestation under the influence of elevated estrogen levels. The lower panel shows that, in order to maintain unaltered free T4 levels, the markedly increased TBG extra-cellular pool must steadily be filled with increasing amounts of T4, until a new equilibrium is reached. This is achieved during pregnancy via an overall ~50% increase in thyroid hormone production. Increased Plasma Volume The increased plasma concentration of TBG, together with the increased plasma volume, results in a corresponding increase in the total T4 pool during pregnancy. While the changes in TBG are most dramatic during the first trimester, the increase in plasma volume continues until delivery. Thus, for free T4 concentration to remain unaltered, the T4 production rate must increase (or its degradation rate decrease) to allow for additional T4 to accumulate. One would predict that in a situation where the T4 input was constant, there would be an iterative increment in T4 as TBG increases, due to reduced T4 availability to degradation enzymes. The evidence that thyroxine requirements are markedly enhanced during pregnancy in hypothyroid treated women (see section on maternal hypothyroidism) strongly suggests that not only T4 degradation is decreased in early pregnancy but also that an increased T4 production occurs throughout gestation to maintain the homeostasis of free T4 concentrations (1) Thyroxine Production Rate The only direct measurements of T4 turnover rates in pregnancy were obtained nearly 40 years ago (62). In eight pregnant subjects (4 in 1st half & 4 in 2nd half of gestation), T4 turnover rates were estimated not to be significantly different from those of non-pregnant subjects. However, based on several considerations discussed above from
