Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


& 4 in 2nd half of gestation), T4 turnover rates were estimated not to be significantly different from those of non-pregnant subjects. However, based on several considerations discussed above from more recent work, it can now be concluded that the T4 production rate is enhanced during pregnancy. Globally, it is accepted that there is a ~50 % increase in the production of T4 during gestation (1) The Placenta During the first trimester the human conceptus is surrounded by the placenta, which acts as an exchange unit for nutrients and waste products. The primary barrier to exchange between mother and fetus is the syncytiotrophoblast layer of the placental chorionic villi which has effective tight junctions and prevents the free diffusion of thyroid hormones across it. The human placenta in addition to this cellular barrier also regulates the amounts of thyroid hormones passing from the mother to the fetus through its expression of placental thyroid hormone transporters, thyroid hormone binding proteins, iodothyronine deiodinases, sulfotransferases and sulfatases (63,64). The transport of iodine through the placenta is also important as the organ has shown to actively concentrate the anion (65). Oxytocin and hCG may also promote placental iodide uptake helping to protect against fetal iodine deficiency(66) Placental NIS protein levels are significantly correlated with gestational age during early pregnancy and increase with increased placental vascularization. This would lead to increased iodide supply to meet increased fetal requirements for thyroid hormone synthesis as the pregnancy progresses (67) The precise details of placental iodide concentration are unclear. It is interesting that in mothers who smoke placental iodide transport seemed unaffected despite high thiocyanate levels, suggesting that thiocyanate-insensitive iodide transporters alternative to NIS are active or that NIS in the placenta is autoregulated to keep iodide transport unaltered.(68). Fetal circulating concentrations of total T3 are at least 10 fold lower than total T4. Unlike adults, the proportion of free unbound T4 is also higher than bound T4 in early gestation. Free T4 levels are determined by the fetal concentrations of the thyroid hormone binding proteins in the circulation and coelomic cavity and the amount of maternal T4 crossing the placenta. The concentration of free T4 in the coelomic fluid in the first trimester is approximately 50% of that found in the maternal circulation and could therefore exert biological effects in fetal tissues. The human placenta expresses iodothyronine deiodinases type II (D2) (which activates T4 to T3) and
