Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


that found in the maternal circulation and could therefore exert biological effects in fetal tissues. The human placenta expresses iodothyronine deiodinases type II (D2) (which activates T4 to T3) and type III (D3) (which inactivates T4 and T3). The principle subtype in the placenta is D3, having 200 times the activity of D2. D3 effectively metabolises most of the maternal T4 presented to the placenta.: still a physiologically relevant amount of T4 is transferred to the fetus. Both D2 and D3 activity per gram of placenta decrease with advancing gestation.( 64). Decidualization, which is a characteristic of the endometrium of the pregnant uterus and a response of maternal cells to the hormone progesterone, is also dependent on the strong expression and tight control of the type 3 deiodinase (69) to regulate the local T3 concentration. A range of thyroid hormone transporters including monocarboxylate transporters (MCT) 8 and 10, system-L amnio acid transporters (LAT1 and LAT2) and organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATP) 1A2, 4A1 and Oatp1c1 have been located at the apical and basolateral membranes of the syncytiotrophoblasts (70,71). These transporters may facilitate thyroid hormone transfer across the cell barrier from the mother to the fetus ( Figure 14-6). In fact, it seems that the syncytiotrophoblast may control the quantity and forms of thyroid hormones taken up by the human placenta so that this this could be critical in regulating transplacental thyroid hormone supply from the mother to the fetus (72). Studies in the mouse with human placental tissue indicate that MCT8 makes a significant contribution to T3 uptake into human trophoblast cells and has a role in modulating human trophoblast cell invasion and viability (73). Transthyretin (TTR), a serum thyroid hormone binding protein, appears to play an important role in the delivery of maternal thyroid hormone to the developing fetus. (74).The human placenta secretes TTR into maternal and fetal circulations and the placental TTR secreted into the maternal placental circulation can be taken up by trophoblasts and translocated to the fetal circulation, forming a TTR shuttle system. This may have important implications for materno-fetal transfer of thyroid hormones (75). Fig 14-6 The passage of T4 and T3 from the maternal to fetal circulation requires negotiation through the apical membrane (maternal-facing) and the basolateral membrane (fetal-facing) of syncytiotrophoblasts (ST), and in the first half of pregnancy (A) through the plasma membranes of cytotrophoblasts (CT) as well. The localisation and function of
