Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


and the basolateral membrane (fetal-facing) of syncytiotrophoblasts (ST), and in the first half of pregnancy (A) through the plasma membranes of cytotrophoblasts (CT) as well. The localisation and function of the six different TH transporters ( ) present in the placenta may differ. These include monocarboxylate transporters (MCT) 8 and 10, system-L amnio acid transporters (LAT1 and LAT2) and organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATP) 1A2 and 4A1.There may also be other yet to be identified TH transporters. In addition, T4 and T3 are subject to metabolism by deioidnase type 2 (D2) and type 3 (D3) as they pass through the trophoblasts. (From 63) In addition to the regulation of transplacental thyroid hormone transfer for fetal development, human placental development is itself is responsive to thyroid hormone from early in gestation with evidence of trophoblastic expression of thyroid hormone receptors. T3 has been shown to promote proliferation, invasion and production of epidermal growth factor by 1 st trimester primary trophoblast cultures. In humans T3 has been shown to suppress apoptosis and down regulate Fas and Fas-ligand expression (76). It has been postulated that abnormal thyroid hormone levels could give rise to malplacentation which underlie the association between maternal thyroid dysfunction and adverse obstetric outcome. The inner-ring deiodination of T4 catalyzed by the type 3 deiodinase enzyme is the source of high concentrations of reverse T3 present in amniotic fluid, and the reverse T3 levels parallel maternal serum T4 concentrations (77). This enzyme may function to reduce the concentrations of T3 and T4 in the fetal circulation (the latter being still contributed by 20-30 % from thyroid hormones of maternal origin at the time of parturition), although fetal tissue T3 levels can reach adult levels due to the local activity of the Type 2 deiodinase (see Chapter 15). Type 3 deiodinase may also indirectly provide a source of iodide to the fetus via iodothyronine deiodination. Despite the presence of placental Type 3 deiodinase, in circumstances in which fetal T4 production is reduced or maternal free T4 markedly increased, transplacental passage occurs and fetal serum T4 levels are about one third of normal.(78). Thyroxine can be detected in amniotic fluid prior to the onset of fetal thyroid function, indicating its maternal origin by transplacental transfer (79).. Figure 14-7 depicts the steep maternal to fetal gradient of total T4 concentrations in early pregnancy stages. Between 6-12 weeks gestation, if maternal total T4 concentration is
