Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


transplacental transfer (79).. Figure 14-7 depicts the steep maternal to fetal gradient of total T4 concentrations in early pregnancy stages. Between 6-12 weeks gestation, if maternal total T4 concentration is set to represent 100%, the total T4 concentration in the coelomic fluid would represent 0.07% and T4 in the amniotic cavity as little as 0.0003-0.0013% of maternal total T4 concentrations. (Because of low levels of binding proteins in the amniotic cavity, the ratio of amniotic/serum FT4 is much higher.) Thus, the placental barrier to maternal iodothyronines is not impermeable to the transplacental passage of thyroid hormones of maternal origin, even in the 3rd trimester (63). Even though very small quantitatively, such concentrations may qualitatively represent an extremely important source of thyroid hormones to ensure the adequate development of the feto-maternal unit. Figure14- 7 Steep gradient between maternal concentrations of thyroid hormones (Total T4) and those measured in the coelomic fluid and amniotic cavity with the developing embryo, during early stages of gestation. A review concluded that a local action of thyroid hormones on female reproductive organs and embryo seemed to be crucial for a successful pregnancy and alterations of the highly regulated local activity of thyroid hormones may play an important, previously underestimated role in early pregnancy and pregnancy loss (80). Furthermore, studies in rats suggest that transcriptomic profiling of the utero-placental compartments, in addition to analysis of mRNA expression of key thyroid hormone placental signaling genes, may predict offspring obesity (81) It is important to note that there is increasing evidence that placental and angiogenic factors are affected by thyroid hormones (82). In isolated human decidual cells T3 regulates angiogenic growth factor and cytokine secretion in a cell-type specific and gestational age specific manner(83). In a large number of women from the Generation R study it was found that high levels of pro- and anti-angiogenic factors may be a risk factor for adverse pregnancy outcomes through their effects on maternal thyroid function (84). Overall thyroid hormones modulate inflammatory processes and are implicated in placental development and disease (85). Immunological and hormonal aspects of normal pregnancy (Table 14-3) Pregnancy has a significant effect on the immune system, in order to maintain the fetal-maternal allograft, which is not rejected despite displaying paternal histocompatability antigens. While there is no overall immunosuppression during pregnancy, clinical improvement usually occurs in patients with immunological disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) when they become pregnant. Clinical
