Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


paternal histocompatability antigens. While there is no overall immunosuppression during pregnancy, clinical improvement usually occurs in patients with immunological disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) when they become pregnant. Clinical improvement occurs as well in psoriatic arthritis and Graves' disease. On the other hand, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) may flare during pregnancy. Table 14-3 Immunological and Hormonal Features of Pregnancy Clinical: Improvement in Graves’ hyperthyroidism Rheumatoid arthritis Psoriatic arthritis and other autoimmune diseases Trophoblast: HLA G expression Fas ligand expression Lymphocytes: Th2 response Th2 cytokines produced by the fetal/placental unit Critical role of Treg cells (CD4 + CD25 + ) in maternal tolerance Possible role of Th17 lymphocyte subset Hormones: Progesterone increase – reduction in B cell activity Oestrogen increase – Fall in autoantibody levels Cortisol,1,25 vitamin D and norepinephrine all affect the immune response Other Galectin-1 The trophoblast does not express the classical major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class Ia or II which are needed to present antigenic peptides to cytotoxic cells and T helper cells respectively. Instead HLA-G, a non-classical MHC Ib molecule is expressed which may be a ligand for the natural killer (NK) cell receptor so protecting the fetus from NK cell damage ; it may also activate CD8+ T-cells that may have a suppressor function. Human trophoblasts also express the Fas ligand abundantly, thereby contributing to the immune privilege in this unique environment possibly by mediating apoptosis of activated Fas expressing lymphocytes of maternal origin. T-cell subset studies in pregnancy are discrepant, as peripheral blood CD4+ and CD8+ cell levels have been variously reported to decline, remain unchanged and increase during pregnancy. Although, the distinction between Th1 (T cell helper 1) and Th2 (T cell helper 2) immune responses in humans remains less clear than in the mouse the general agreement is that in pregnancy there is a bias towards a Th2 response (3) This seems to be achieved by the fetal/ placental unit producing Th2 cytokines, which inhibit Th1. Th1 cytokines are potentially harmful to the fetus as, for example, interferon alpha (IFNα) is a known abortifacient. The characterisation of regulatory T cells (CD4 + CD25 + ), a T cell subset that can prevent experimental autoimmune disease, has improved the understanding of the immunological maintenance of pregnancy. It is now thought that these cells are one of the main groups of T cell subsets which allow tolerance of the fetal semi allograft. They may
