Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


maintenance of pregnancy. It is now thought that these cells are one of the main groups of T cell subsets which allow tolerance of the fetal semi allograft. They may be found in the decidua as well as in the maternal circulation and regulate autoimmune responses.(3) Assessment of Thyroid Function in Pregnancy As there is significant overlap between the symptoms experienced by normal euthyroid pregnant women and those with thyroid dysfunction clinical diagnosis is not always straightforward. Because thyroid physiology is altered in pregnancy it has become clear during the past decade that normative gestational reference ranges for thyroid hormone analytes are necessary. Most clinical laboratory reports only provide non-pregnant reference intervals for the interpretation of laboratory results... The range of normal serum total T4 is modified during pregnancy under the influence of a rapid increase in serum TBG levels. The TBG plateau is reached at mid-gestation (see Figure 14-8 , upper left panel) . If one uses total T4 to estimate thyroid function, the non pregnant reference range (5-12 µg/dl; 50-150 nmol/L) can be multiplied t by 1.5 during pregnancy. However, it should be noted that since total T4 values only reach a plateau around mid-gestation, such adaptation is only fully valid during the 2nd half of gestation (see Figure 14-8 , upper right panel) . Thus, the use of total T4 does not provide an accurate estimate of thyroid function during early gestation.. However, the free thyroxine index (“adjusted T4“) appears to be a reliable assay during pregnancy (87). Figure 14-8 Upper left panel: pattern of changes in serum TBG concentrations (mean + sd) in 606 normal pregnant women ( Ref 1). Upper right panel: pattern of changes in serum total T4 concentrations (individual results) in 98 normal pregnancies ( Ref 86). Middle panel: free T4 measurements in 29 women in the 9th month of gestation, using equilibrium dialysis (ED), and 9 different immunoassays (EL: Elecsys; VD: Vidas; VT: Vitros ECi; GC: Gamma-Coat; IM: Immunotech; AD: Advantage; AX: AxSYM; AC: ACS: 180; AI: AIA Pack). The boxes show the non-pregnant upper and lower reference intervals. The percentages given in the upper part of the figure show the mean decrement (in percent) of serum free T4 values compared with the mean free T4 reference value for non-pregnant subjects, provided by the manufacturer. It can be seen that free T4 values were decreased by 40% when measured by ED, and
