Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


the mean free T4 reference value for non-pregnant subjects, provided by the manufacturer. It can be seen that free T4 values were decreased by 40% when measured by ED, and by 17-34% depending on the immunoassay employed . Lower left panel: pattern of changes in serum free T4 concentrations (individual results) in 98 normal pregnancies in the USA, with an adequate iodine intake (Ref 86). Lower right panel: pattern of changes in serum free T4 Although gestation specific reference intervals for thyroid function tests are not currently in routine use in most laboratories there has been intense activity world wide in the development of such ranges (4). . Irrespective of the techniques used to measure free T4 during pregnancy, there is a characteristic pattern of serum free T4 changes during normal pregnancy. This pattern includes a slight and temporary rise in free T4 during the first trimester (due to the thyrotropic effect of hCG) and a tendency for serum free T4 values to decrease progressively during later gestational stages (88). In iodine-sufficient conditions, the physiologic free T4 decrement that is observed during the second and third trimester remains minimal (~10%), while it is enhanced (~20-25%) in iodine-deficient nutritional conditions (see Figure 14-4 , lower left and right panels, respectively). Unfortunately, few if any FT4 immunoassay manufacturers provide appropriate normal pregnancy-related reference intervals that are method-specific (specific for the method used for hormone analysis). It is therefore imperative that method- and gestation-specific reference intervals for FT4 are derived in the appropriate reference populations to prevent misinterpretation of thyroid status in pregnant women. While ‘gold standard methodology’ (e.g. tandem mass spectrometry) is useful for accurate standardisation of values (89), in practice the use of kit assays for free thyroid hormones as well as routine estimation of total bound hormones are used. These are based on analogue methods that rely on the concentrations of binding-proteins, are method-dependent and may give misleading FT4 and FT3 values in pregnancy. For example a commercially available FT4 assay has shown that it correlates more closely to total T4 assays than to FT4 measured following physical separation from binding proteins (90). A comparison of 5 different commercial assays for FT4 and FT3 showed significant interassay variation underlining the necessity for individual laboratory based reference ranges (91). Reference values for FT4 were different when measured by 7 different kits(92).Even in the same region, the use of gestational age specific
