Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


in both maternal hypothyroidism and an increased risk for adverse fetal brain development. TSH is however the best measure of thyroid function during the 2 nd and 3 rd trimesters Reliable trimester-specific (or gestation-specific) reference intervals for TSH are also now available, being based on an adequate sample size comprised singleton pregnancies in an iodine sufficient, antibody-free population ( see fig 14-9) The importance of the reference range is shown by the fact that 28% of singleton pregnancies with a serum TSH greater than 2 standard deviations above the mean would not have been identified when using the nonpregnant serum TSH range. The individual genetic set-points of a population may result in an intra-individual variability of the thyroid hormone levels, reflected by the reference intervals (112). Also, Afro Americans in USA have lower TSH values in gestation (113), and data from The Netherlands has also documented ethnic differences in thyroid function tests in pregnancy (114). These should be recognized when deriving normative reference ranges. Figure 14-9 Gestation-related reference intervals for serum TSH in a Chinese population (343 healthy pregnant women & 63 non-pregnant controls). The median, 2.5th and 97.5th percentiles for serum TSH values are shown in the blue boxes for each trimester. Gestation-specific reference intervals for TSH should alleviate the potential risk of misinterpretation of thyroid function tests in pregnancy (from Panesar, Ref 111). In summary, TSH levels may be misleading in the first trimester and T4 values either total or free will give a more accurate estimate of clinical status. Later in gestation TSH levels are reliable whereas T4 may fall especially in the 3 rd trimester but this does not indicate hypothyroidism. In some cases, serum anti-TPO antibodies, anti-Tg and/or TSH receptor antibody levels can provide other information; TPO antibodies can predict the risk of hypothyroidism. Ethnic differences in trimester specific reference ranges should be noted. For example the upper limit of TSH in the first trimester was much higher than 2.5 mIU/L in Chinese pregnant women(108). Large differences in thyroid function reference intervals between different populations of pregnant women are seen due to assay variation as well as ethnicity and body mass index (115,116) In pregnant women with low TSH hyperthyroidism, TSH receptor antibodies are observed in 60–70% of the cases. Hyperemesis Gravidarum Vomiting occurs in normal pregnancy during the 1st trimester and ceases usually by the 15th week. Prolonged nausea and severe vomiting in early
