Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


in 60–70% of the cases. Hyperemesis Gravidarum Vomiting occurs in normal pregnancy during the 1st trimester and ceases usually by the 15th week. Prolonged nausea and severe vomiting in early pregnancy that causes greater than a 5% weight loss, dehydration and ketonuria is defined as Hyperemesis Gravidarum (HG) and occurs in 0.5-10 cases per 1,000 pregnancies (117). Hyperemesis is associated with high hCG levels occurring at this time, but the exact cause remains uncertain. For unknown reasons, HG is more prevalent in Asian than Caucasian women. Norwegian data from 1967 to 2005 showed a prevalence of 0.9% but it affected 2.2% of Pakistani women; 1.9% of Turkish women and 0.5% of Norwegian women (118); a familial aggregation suggesting strong evidence for a genetic component of HG. has been suggested (119) When the charge-isoforms profiles of circulating hCG were compared in HG women with different ethnic backgrounds (Samoan vs. European). an increase in total serum hCG concentrations as well as an increase in the proportion of acidic hCG variants in the women suffering from HG, compared with matched control subjects was noted (120). The same study also confirmed the known association between hCG concentrations in early pregnancy and elevations in thyroid hormone levels .While there was no major association between HG and ethnic background, the authors observed a high prevalence of recurrent HG and a familial predisposition for this condition, suggesting that either long-term environmental factors or genetic factors may play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of HG and gestational transient non autoimmune thyrotoxicosis (121) Thirty to sixty percent of patients with HG have elevations of serum free thyroid hormone concentrations with a suppressed TSH . Women with hyperemesis and elevated thyroid hormone levels most commonly do not have other clinical evidence of primary thyroid disease, such as Graves’ disease. A minor proportion of these patients may have clinical hyperthyroidism, termed ‘gestational hyperthyroidism’ or ‘gestational transient thyrotoxicosis’ (GTT). Graves’ disease can also occur coincident with hyperemesis . Many common signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism may be mimicked by a normal pregnancy. The clinical challenge is therefore to differentiate between these two disorders The etiology of excessive thyroid stimulation is considered to be hCG itself (or derivatives of hCG) via a direct stimulation of the thyroid cells through binding of hCG to the TSH receptor (52).. A case of severe HG was reported where the gestational thyrotoxicosis associated with HG was
