Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


direct stimulation of the thyroid cells through binding of hCG to the TSH receptor (52).. A case of severe HG was reported where the gestational thyrotoxicosis associated with HG was due to a mutation of the TSH receptor, providing hypersensitivity to hCG (122 ). Only one other similar case has since been reported world wide (123). In virtually all patients with gestational hyperthyroidism, appropriate fluid replacement will lead to resolution of the clinical symptoms. As gestation proceeds and hCG levels progressively fall, normal thyroid function is resumed. In severe (but rare) cases, antithyroid drug treatment may be required (described in more detail below). Several investigators have observed that there may even be more subtle form of hyperthyroidism associated with morning sickness (124) Severity of emesis was correlated with serum free T4 and hCG levels and inversely with the degree of TSH suppression (124), suggesting strongly that HG may reflect the extreme end of the spectrum of physiological changes that occur at this time in normal pregnancy (Fig 14-10). It is possible that high hCG levels cause both an increased estrogen secretion as well as thyroid hyperfunction, and in turn explain the coexistence of nausea and vomiting with hyperthyroidism. Figure 14-10 Relationship between the severity of vomiting and the mean (with SE) serum concentrations of hCG, free T4, and TSH. The inset in the lower right part of the figure shows the prevalence of suppressed TSH levels, for each trimester of gestation, in a cohort of normal pregnant women. The data were graphically adapted by Carole Spencer (thanks to Carole for allowing me to borrow the slide). The figures are based on studies by Goodwin (Ref 118) AUTOIMMUNE THYROID DISEASE AND PREGNANCY The whole spectrum of autoimmune thyroid disease occurs in pregnancy and the postpartum period (see table 14-5). These conditions and their relation to pregnancy are discussed in the rest of this chapter Table 14-5 Autoimmune Thyroid Disease During Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period 1. Asymptomatic autoimmune disease a) Thyroid antibody positiive (TPOAb and/TgAb) :euthyroid b) Subclinical hypothyroidism2 Primary hypothyroidism a) Thyroid destruction (Hashimoto's disease) b) Circulating TSH-receptor-blocking antibody 3. . Graves' Diseasea)Euthyroidb) Hyperthyroid 4 Postpartum Thyroid Disease The prevalence of AITD in the pregnant population is comparable to that found in the general female population with a similar age range, i.e. between 5-15% (125). Careful study of women with thyroid antibodies during pregnancy has shown that despite the expected
