Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


found in the general female population with a similar age range, i.e. between 5-15% (125). Careful study of women with thyroid antibodies during pregnancy has shown that despite the expected decrease in antibody titers during gestation, thyroid function gradually deteriorated towards hypothyroidism in a significant fraction of such women (Fig 14-11 a,b,c). In the 1st trimester, serum TSH (albeit within the normal range) was already significantly shifted to higher values in women with AITD, compared with normal pregnant controls. Serum TSH remained higher throughout gestation and at parturition 40% of AITD-positive women had a serum TSH >3 mU/L, with almost one-half of them above 4 mU/L. Thus, while women with AITD were able to maintain a normal thyroid function in early gestation (due to sustained thyrotropic stimulation), their mean serum free T4 levels were significantly reduced to (or below) the lower limit of the normal reference range at delivery. Average reduction in serum free T4 reached 30% and almost one half of these women had free T4 values in the hypothyroid range by the time of delivery, confirming that these women have a reduced functional thyroid reserve. The risk of progression to hypothyroidism could be predicted from serum TSH levels and TPO-Ab titers measured in early pregnancy. When serum TSH was already above 2.5 mU/L and/or TPO-Ab titers above 1,250 U/mL before 20 weeks, these markers were predictive for the development of i hypothyroidism by the end of pregnancy. Practical use of these markers in early gestation can therefore identify those women who carry the highest risk.A Chinese study has confirmed this approach noting that between 7 and 12 weeks gestation the titers of TPOAb and TSH correlate positively and negatively with FT4 respectively (127). Preventive thyroxine treatment administered to avoid the potential deleterious effects of hypothyroxinemia and possibly thyroid antibodies on both maternal and fetal outcomes may then be considered. . There is also evidence from retrospective and some prospective studies that positive thyroid antibodies impacts adversely upon the course of pregnancy in several ways. Figure 14-11a Changes in TPO-Ab in pregnant women with AITD. There was a marked reduction in antibody titers, by 50-60% on the average (solid lines represent asymptomatic euthyroid women; dotted lines women with known hypothyroidism) (from 126). Figure 14-11b Among women with thyroid antibodies, a progressively increasing fraction developed biochemical hypothyroidism, with 10% of them having a basal serum TSH >3 mU/L in 1st
