Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


hypothyroidism) (from 126). Figure 14-11b Among women with thyroid antibodies, a progressively increasing fraction developed biochemical hypothyroidism, with 10% of them having a basal serum TSH >3 mU/L in 1st trimester, 20% in 2nd & 3rd trimesters, and finally ~40% at delivery (from 126). Figure14- 11c Mean serum free T4 concentrations at delivery in women with and without thyroid immunity. In women with AITD, mean serum free T4 was not only significantly lower than in controls, but in addition, was at the lower limit of normality (from 126). THYROID AUTOIMMUNITY AND DISORDERS OF FEMALE REPRODUCTION Infertility Infertility is defined as the absolute inability to conceive after one year of regular intercourse without contraception. The overall prevalence of infertility is estimated to range from 10% to 15% and has remained stable over the past few decades. The work up of infertile women usually identifies different causal factors, including male-factor infertility in 30%, female causes of infertility in 35%, a combination of both male and female infertility in 20%, and idiopathic infertility in 15%. Female causes of infertility comprise endometriosis, tubal occlusion and ovulation dysfunction. Among the factors that may negatively influence normal fertility, immunologic factors are known to play an important role in the reproduction processes of fertilization, implantation and early development of the embryo. Different investigations support the association between reproductive failure and abnormal immunological test results, including anti-phospholipid, anti-nuclear antibodies and organ specific autoimmunity, among which the presence of antithyroid antibodies (127-129). However, In women with reproductive failure the presence of autoantibodies does not appear to affect the numbers of K cells in the endometrium around the time of implantation (130). In women with repeated implantation failure the percentage of cytotoxic T cells was increase in those with thyroid autoimmunity compared to those without (131). With regard to thyroid dysfunction, clinical hypothyroidism is clearly associated with female infertility and, in women in the reproductive age, autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) is the most common cause of hypothyroidism (132,133). Although many of the studies relating to the association of thyroid antibodies and infertility are subject to selection bias, retrospective analysis, and different causes of infertility, they broadly confirm the association. Analysis of a large Danish population (11254 women) has shown that impaired fertility is associated with TSH, TPOAb and subclinical hypothyroidism (134). A previous large study employing control women study has documented an OR of 2.1 (1.7-2.6), p< 0.0001, in favour
