Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


impaired fertility is associated with TSH, TPOAb and subclinical hypothyroidism (134). A previous large study employing control women study has documented an OR of 2.1 (1.7-2.6), p< 0.0001, in favour of the association of infertility and thyroid antibodies (135). Medically-assisted conception and onset of gestation is not hampered by AITD, but a successful outcome of the ongoing pregnancies is significantly reduced in those women with AITD due to greater early pregnancy loss (see Figure 14-23) (136) The mechanism of the association between thyroid antibodies and infertility is not clear. A review has noted that thyroid hormone disorders and TPOAb are associated with disturbed folliculogenesis,spermatogenesis, fertilization and embryogenesis but the pathogenesis of TPOAb and reproduction is not well understood (137). It is of interest that there is an increase in infertility in women with endometriosis [RR 3.57] (138) which is known to have immune cell depression (NK cells), as well as decreased activity and cytotoxicity against autologous endometrium (139). The importance of NK cells has been emphasised (139) and impaired cellular and humoral response in women with unexplained infertility has been shown (140). The demonstration of antithyroid antibodies in ovarian follicles (141) may also suggest a critical role in infertility associated with autoimmune thyroid disease. These conclusions are strengthened by a study in mice in which it was noted that the anti TPO antibody may affect post-implantation embryo development leading to fetal loss (142). Lack of vitamin D was suggested as a predisposing factor to autoimmune diseases, and was shown to be reduced in patients with thyroid autoimmunity. In turn, its deficiency is also linked to infertility and pregnancy loss, suggesting a potential interplay with thyroid autoimmunity in the context of infertility (143) The main practical question is whether one should give the benefit of thyroxine administration to infertile women who have positive thyroid antibodies with variable degrees of thyroid insufficiency.Screening for thyroid function in infertile women should be routinely performed (144,145) Obviously, overt thyroid dysfunction should be treated before conception or planned ART. Since SCH has a negative impact on the outcome of pregnancy after ART, thyroxine treatment should also be advised (146). It should be noted that in a study of 21 thyroxine treated women compared to 219 euthyroid women, women with hypothyroidism had a significantly decreased chance of achieving a pregnancy following IVF compared to euthyroid patients (147). The reasons are unknown and more data are required. Controlled
