Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


women, women with hypothyroidism had a significantly decreased chance of achieving a pregnancy following IVF compared to euthyroid patients (147). The reasons are unknown and more data are required. Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation studied in 57 women led to significant elevations in TSH, often above pregnancy appropriate targets. These findings were particularly evident in women with preexisting hypothyroidism and may have important clinical implications for screening and thyroid hormone supplementation (148) Evidence on the treatment of isolated autoimmune features, but without thyroid dysfunction, was insufficiently documented until recently to advise prompt action (see later section on medical interventions). Figure 14-12 Outcome of Assisted Reproduction (IVF) in 203 women with (15%) and without (85%) thyroid autoimmunity (TAI). The rate of successfully-induced pregnancies was not decreased in TAI positive women (~50%), but miscarriages occurred twice more frequently in them (53 versus 26%; O.R for miscarriage in TAI positive cases = 3.77) (from Poppe, Ref 136). In males, hyperthyroidism causes alterations in spermatogenesis and fertility, and most studies show that hyperthyroid male patients have abnormalities in seminal parameters, mainly sperm motility. These abnormalities tend to improve and normalize when euthyroidism is restored by treatment. Concerning hypothyroidism in males, severe and prolonged thyroid insufficiency may impair reproductive function, particularly when its onset occurs in childhood. Severe juvenile hypothyroidism may also be associated with precocious puberty. Finally, patho-zoospermia and astheno-zoospermia seem more prevalent in infertile males who present features of AITD(2). . Among 71 men with thyroid dysfunction (1/3rd with hyperthyroidism and 2/3rd with hypothyroidism), the authors found an elevated frequency of erectile dysfunction (56/71; 79%). Moreover, the restoration of a euthyroid status by thyroid treatment also restored a normal (or significantly improved) erectile function.(149) Miscarriage Thirty-one percent of all pregnancies end in miscarriage. Generally, women who experience a single pregnancy loss do not routinely undergo an evaluation for the cause of miscarriage. Women who experience recurrent miscarriages (i.e. 0.3%-5% of women), which is defined as three or more spontaneous miscarriages without an intervening live birth, should thoroughly be evaluated for an underlying etiology (such as infections, auto-immune disorders, exposure to drugs, etc.) (150). Stagnaro-Green (151) reported a doubling of the spontaneous miscarriage rate in women who were Ab+ve compared with an Ab-ve cohort (17 vs 8.4%; p = 0.001). Subsequent meta analyses confirmed these associations (152,153). In a further 22 studies up to 2007 with only 6 showed no statistical correlation between the presence of
