Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


(162). The American Society of Reproductive medicine asserts that there is fair evidence that thyroid autoimmunity is associated with miscarriage and that L-Thyroxine may improve pregnancy outcomes especially if TSH is > 2.5mIU/L (145).Miscarriage may be linked to a generalized immune imbalance. Women who have had multiple miscarriages have an increased number of CD5/20+ B cells compared with women who have had one or none (163).. Aberrant immune recognition of thyroglobulin (Tg) and placental antigens by antibodies to Tg has been demonstrated in mice immunized with human Tg, and resulted in decreased fetal and placental weights (164).However, evaluation of thyroglobulin expression in reproductive organs of mice showed no message in placenta, decidua or ovary suggesting that antithyroglobulin antibodies have no direct detrimental effect on such organs in patients with thyroid autoimmunity suffering from recurrent abortion (165).On the other hand Ticconi et al (166) in a case control study of 160 women with recurrent miscarriage (RM) found both TPO and Tg antibodies to be more frequently present than in 100 healthy pregnant women. Importantly, more than 90% of the RM women had evidence of other autoantibodies suggesting a more general maternal autoimmune defect in RM. AITD may be associated with inappropriate low levels of thyroid hormones for the given gestational period, despite apparent biological euthyroidism. Only women with AITD and who experienced a miscarriage showed a difference in median serum levels of TSH and T4 compared to women without AITD (167). Women with AITD are generally older than healthy controls and increased age is an independent risk factor for miscarriage. AITD could act therefore by delaying the occurrence of conception because of its known association with infertility. Thyroid antibody-positive women would tend to become pregnant only at an older age (3-4 years older, on the average) and be more prone to pregnancy loss. There are no clear answers to the problem of thyroid autoimmunity and miscarriage and the subject has been reviewed (168). Women Undergoing IVF Different regimes of IVF are now frequently employed in infertile women and new approaches to ovarian stimulation are being implemented (169). A meta analysis of 4 studies on 1098 subfertile women (170) with thyroid autoimmunity and 957 controls showed an RR for miscarriage of 1.99 (CI 1.416-2.793, p<0.001) [ Fig 14-24]. Therefore, on current evidence, it does appear that the presence of thyroid autoimmunity is associated with an increased risk for spontaneous miscarriage in subfertile
