Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


(CI 1.416-2.793, p<0.001) [ Fig 14-24]. Therefore, on current evidence, it does appear that the presence of thyroid autoimmunity is associated with an increased risk for spontaneous miscarriage in subfertile women achieving a pregnancy through an IVF procedure.(136,170-175); however the clinical picture is not clear cut .Negro et al. (176) found that pregnancy rates were not affected by the presence of TPOAb in euthyroid women undergoing assisted reproductive technology (ART). Intracytoplasmic sperm injection is a relatively new method of ferilisation. Studies of patients with thyroid autoimmunity and thyroid antibodies (anti TPO) concluded that these abnormalities did not affect cumulative delivery rates, fertilization, pregnancy rates, live birth rates or miscarriage rate compared to women without thyroid autoimmunity (177-179). Successful modulation of the immune system with beneficial pregnancy outcome has been reported in patients with AITD who received immunoglobulins with (or without) additional heparin or aspirin (180-182). However, the sudies were not adequately controlled, only comprising small numbers of patients who also had othe, auto-antibodies other than thyroid antibodies. Fig 14-24 Miscarriage risk in euthyroid women with thyroid autoimmunity undergoing IVF. % weight refers to the emphasis placed on each of the 4 studies used in the analysis. From (170) It is possible that TPOAb+ve women could have a better outcome with IVF if they also received LT4 as well as aspirin and prednisone (183) When 50 micrograms of LT4 was administered to women with subclinical hypothyroidism undergoing IVF showed an improvement in embryo quality and pregnancy outcome (184). A retrospective cohort study has confirmed that the vast majority of hypothyroid treated women who achieve pregnancy through IVF require an increase in the L-T4 dose during gestation (185). This is a similar situation to hypothyroid pregnant women not having IFV (vide infra). These findings have implications for screening and medical intervention. For instance, if delayed conception plays a significant role to explain decreased fertility in women with AITD, it would certainly constitute an argument for screening systematically infertile women for the presence of mild thyroid underfunction that is so frequently associated with thyroid antibodies, particularly when women seek medical advice before IVF procedures. There is a high prevalence of women with elevated serum TSH levels, an association between oligo-amenorrhea and abnormally elevated serum TSH values and an overall improvement in the success rate of induced pregnancies after thyroxine administration (186). A recent study of 50 patients confirmed the link between thyroid function,
