Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


strengthened the association between PTD and thyroid autoimmunity (197-199). Although methodology and number of women studied varies in the different reports, current evidence suggests that the presence of TPO-Ab in pregnant women significantly increases the risk of preterm delivery. Further studies are required to evaluate other factors (eg ethnicity) associated with these findings. For example Interleukin-6 levels may also be an important factor (200). Thyroid disease is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and pregnant patients with this disorder also have an increase in PTD (201). Implications for Therapy In the conditions referred to above the patients are all euthyroid. Although there may be a tendency in TPOAb+ve women to develop a raised TSH later on in pregnancy this only occurs in the minority. The Generaation R study indicated that hypothyroxinemia (RR about 3.5) as well as TPO-Antibody positivity (RR about 2.0) are risk factors for premature delivery (202) It has been suggested that L-thyroxine treatment may correct any slight deficiency in this clinical situation as well as influencing the systemic immune disturbance and the placental-decidual environment (159). Two prospective randomised trials by Negro and colleagues (176,203) support this view. In the first L-thyroxine (1mcg/kg/day)was given to women scheduled to have IVF treatment; this resulted in a 36% reduction in miscarriage rate. The later study used a mean L-T4 dose of 49.7mcg/day in women with positive antiTPOAb and noted a 75% reduction in miscarriage as well as a 69% reduction in pre-term births. More trials are awaited before a firm recommendation can be made. A systematic review (162) stated that for subclinical hypothyroidism and thyroid autoimmunity, evidence is insufficient to recommend treatment with levothyroxine. However a Cochrane review (204) stated that a reduction in preterm birth and a trend towards miscarriage with L-T4 was shown.The lack of prospective randomized controlled trials in this area of practice is currently impeding progress in high quality evidence based clinical decision making. PRIMARY HYPOTHYROIDISM Clinical Epidemiology The prevalence of overt and subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy is estimated at 0.3-0.5% and 2-3% (or even up to 5%) respectively (205,206). Endemic iodine deficiency is the most common cause of hypothyroidism seen in pregnant women worldwide. Even mild iodine deficiency can be associated with a high prevalence of thyroid autoimmunity in the first trimester (32), and inadequate iodine status has been accompanied by a high prevalence of hypothyroidism in pregnancy (207). However the main cause of hypothyroidism in
