Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


thyroid autoimmunity in the first trimester (32), and inadequate iodine status has been accompanied by a high prevalence of hypothyroidism in pregnancy (207). However the main cause of hypothyroidism in iodine-replete populations is chronic autoimmune thyroiditis (208). Other causes include post-surgical, post-radioiodine ablation and hypothyroidism secondary to pituitary disease which, although rare, can include lymphocytic hypophysitis occurring during pregnancy or postpartum (209). (Table 14-6) Table 14-6 Etiology and Diagnosis of Hypothyroidism in Pregnancy View in own window Cause Diagnostic Feature Autoimmune thyroiditis Positive thyroid antibody test (TPOAb TSH Receptor blocking antibodies Iodine deficiency Low urinary iodine. Goiter Post surgical History of Graves’ disease or toxic nodular goiter , Thyroid cancer, Benign goiter Pituitary disease Features of hypopituitarism Overt hypothyroidism in pregnancy may present classically but is oftentimes subtle and difficult to distinguish from the symptoms of normal pregnancy. A high index of suspicion is therefore required especially in women with a predisposition to thyroid disease such as a personal or family history of thyroid disease, the presence of goitre or the co-existence of other autoimmune disorders like type 1 diabetes.(210) which are all predictive factors of high risk of autoimmune thyroid disease. Thyroid antibodies are found in 5-15% of normal women in the childbearing age and, when the iodine nutrition status is adequate, the main cause of hypothyroidism during pregnancy is chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. An earlier review concluded that the overall prevalence of hypothyroidism was 2.2% to 3.4%, and the prevalence of thyroid antibodies ranged from 25% to 77% of hypothyroid pregnant women, with a mean prevalence of 46%. Thyroid autoimmunity was 5.2-fold more frequent in women with a diagnosis of hypothyroidism, compared with euthyroid controls (mean of 48.5% versus 9.2%) (211). Clinical and Diagnostic Features Symptoms and signs may raise clinical suspicion of hypothyroidism during pregnancy (weight increase, sensitivity to cold, dry skin, etc.) but others may go unnoticed (asthenia, drowsiness, constipation, etc.). Because many women remain asymptomatic, particular attention is required from the obstetrical care providers for this condition to be diagnosed and to evaluate more systematically thyroid function when women attend the prenatal clinic for the first time. Only thyroid function tests confirm the diagnosis. A serum TSH elevation suggests primary hypothyroidism and measurement of serum free T4 levels further distinguish between subclinical hypothyroidism (SCH) and overt hypothyroidism (OH), depending on whether free T4 is normal or clearly below normal for gestational age. Determination of thyroid antibodies,
