Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


T4 levels further distinguish between subclinical hypothyroidism (SCH) and overt hypothyroidism (OH), depending on whether free T4 is normal or clearly below normal for gestational age. Determination of thyroid antibodies, thyroperoxidase (TPO-Ab) and thyroglobulin (TG-Ab) antibodies, confirms the autoimmune origin of the disorder (212). Recently there have been a number of studies examining the relationship between ovarian reserve and thyroid autoimmunity (TA) using anti Mullerian hormone (AMH) as a marker for the former. Women with TA have a reduced ovarian follicular reserve (213). There is evidence that AMH levels are inversely correlated with TSH levels in infertile women of reproductive age (214). Although the probability of a poor response to controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) is high and independent of autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) in women with low serum AMH levels, in those women with good ovarian reserve (high AMH) the presence of AITD impairs the outcome of COH (215). In a large cross sectional retrospective study (216) it was found that a) serum thyroid hormone levels, anti-TPOAb and prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism were no different in different ovarian reserve categories, b) a higher prevalence of subclinical and overt hypothyroidism was seen in women with a genetic cause for low ovarian reserve compared to those with unexplained cause. The relationship is clearly complex and further work is required. Effect of Hypothyroidism on the Outcome of Pregnancy Despite the known association between decreased fertility and hypothyroidism, the latter condition does not preclude the possibility to conceive. Gestational hypothyroidism, and particularly subclinical hypothyroidism is not rare. Abalovich at al, showed that 34% of hypothyroid women became pregnant without thyroxine treatment: 11% of them had OH and 89% SCH (217).. When hypothyroid women become pregnant and maintain the pregnancy, they carry an increased risk for early and late obstetrical complications (Table 14-7). An analysis of 223,512 singleton pregnancies from a retrospective US cohort showed that , thyroid diseases were associated with obstetrical, labor, and delivery complications (218). Unfortunately these authors had no access to treatment details. Furthermore, in a study of 92 women on T4 replacement therapy the occurrence of maternal or fetal/neonatal complications could not be predicted by maternal TSH/fT4 through pregnancy, presence of thyroid autoimmunity or dose of LT4 replacement (219). Table 14-7 Adverse Outcomes of Hypothyroidism MOTHER Infertility Miscarriage Preterm Delivery Anemia in pregnancy Preeclampsia Abruptio placenta Postpartum haemorrhage BABY Increased fetal death rate Preterm birth Intra Uterine Growth Retardation Low
