Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


14-7 Adverse Outcomes of Hypothyroidism MOTHER Infertility Miscarriage Preterm Delivery Anemia in pregnancy Preeclampsia Abruptio placenta Postpartum haemorrhage BABY Increased fetal death rate Preterm birth Intra Uterine Growth Retardation Low birth weight Increased neonatal respiratory distress Impaired neurointellectual child development Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Autism The frequency of these complications depends on whether they are associated with overt (high TSH associated with low FT4) or subclinical hypothyroidism (high TSH associated with FT4 within the reference range). With regard to fetal death rates Benhadi et al (154) noted that the risk of child loss increased with higher levels of maternal TSH although maternal FT4 concentrations and child loss were not associated. Ashoor et al (220-222) however, have observed that fetal loss was associated with both an increase in TSH and a decrement in FT4 although the presence of thyroid antibodies did not affect these results. They have also shown that impaired thyroid function may predispose to the development of late pre eclampsia (221) but they found no evidence of thyroid dysfunction or maternal thyroid antibodies to be related to preterm birth (222). A definitive study by Casey et al.(223) found that subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy has a relative risk of 1.8 for premature birth/low birth weight.Interestingly,maternal high-normal FT4 levels in early pregnancy were associated with lower birth weight and small for gestational age in the Generation R study of more than 4000 women (224). The continuous reciprocal relationship between maternal weight and FT4 has also been noted in the 2 nd trimester in more than 9000 women (225) An overview is given by Negro (226). While the prevalence of hypothyroidism and subclinical hypothyroidism has been mentioned it should be noted that the state of isolated hypothyroxinemia (IH) occurs in around 2.5 to 10% depending on the definition employed (227). There has been controversy as to whether IH is a real entity and if so whether there are any adverse effects of the condition in gestation. The cause(s) of IH are not clear but iodine deficiency may be an important factor. IH does have adverse obstetric effects, although early studies of first trimester IH showed no adverse outcomes (228,229). Subsequent studies have documented an increase in preterm labour and macrosomia as well as gestational diabetes and increased placental abruption(230). Breech presentation,,larger fetal and infant head size and fetal distress have also been associated with IH (230-234). Despite these data guideline committees have
