Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


as gestational diabetes and increased placental abruption(230). Breech presentation,,larger fetal and infant head size and fetal distress have also been associated with IH (230-234). Despite these data guideline committees have concluded that there is not enough evidence to recommend L-T4 treatment in women with IH (13-15). A review of the treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism SCH) in pregnancy concluded that while SCH is associated with multiple maternal and neonatal outcomes the value of L-T4 treatment remains uncertain (235). Nevertheless,adequate thyroxine treatment is critical to the outcome independent of the type of hypothyroidism (OH/SCH) A retrospective study of 150 pregnancies noted that adequate treatment of overt and SCH minimised the risks of abortion and premature delivery regardless of initial thyroid status,whereas inadequate therapy resulted in an increased rate of abortion and preterm deliveries (218) rate. A prospective randomised intervention trial also showed that even in euthyroid thyroid antibody positive pregnant women who were treated with thyroxine the rates of miscarriage and pre-term delivery were lower than euthyroid antibody positive women who did not receive thyroxine treatment (203). A retrospective study of women with SCH who were or were not prescribed L-T4 during pregnancy showed that the L-T4 group had fewer loss of pregnancies, and fewer low birth weight infants as well as better APGAR scores in the infants (236). From a practical point of view adherence to L-T4 therapy is critical and was noted to be low among 17% of women prescribed this drug in a large survey (237). Appropriate counselling is recommended. FETAL-NEONATAL CONSEQUENCES OF MATERNAL HYPOTHYROIDISM Role of Thyroid Hormone During Fetal Brain Development Thyroid hormones are major factors for the normal development of the brain. Extensive animal experiments reported by Teng’s group in China have shown neurodevelopmental impairment in subclinically hypothyroid rats due to alteration of the CREB signaling pathway (238) Marginal iodine deficiency affects dendritic spine development (239) and hypothyroxinemia also inhibits brain development (240,241). Hippocampal structure and function is affected in humans and rats resulting from thyroid hormone deficiency (242,243). The mechanisms of actions of thyroid hormones in the developing brain are mainly mediated through two ligand activated thyroid hormone receptor isoforms (244). Physiological amounts of free T4 are present in coelomic and amniotic fluids surrounding the developing embryo already in first trimester. Also, specific nuclear receptors are present in fetal brain as early as ~8 weeks post-conception (245). It is known that thyroid hormone deficiency may
