Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


developing embryo already in first trimester. Also, specific nuclear receptors are present in fetal brain as early as ~8 weeks post-conception (245). It is known that thyroid hormone deficiency may cause severe neurological disorders resulting from the deficit of neuronal cell differentiation and migration, axonal and dendritic outgrowth, myelin formation and synaptogenesis (246). This is the situation well documented in iodine deficient areas where the maternal circulating thyroxine concentrations are too low to provide adequate fetal levels particularly in the first trimester. Even in an iodine sufficient area maternal thyroid dysfunction (hypothyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism or hypothyroxinemia) during pregnancy results in neuro-intellectual impairment of the child; hence maternal thyroid hormones are required through gestation for proper brain development and specific effects will depend on when maternal hormone deficiency occurs during pregnancy (247) The neurobiology of fetal brain development depends on many factors including the availability of thyroxine (T4) delivery to the fetal neurones (248) . There is also an important role for the thyroid hormone transporters in one or more of these processes (249). While MCT8 facilitates thyroid hormone transport to the neurone, OATP1C1 appears to be related to thyroid hormone transport into the astrocyte. At this stage it favours the transport of T4 more than T3 but as the deiodinase II is within the astrocyte this enables conversion to occur and then allows T3 to be transferred into the neurone. Other thyroid hormone transporters are probably regulating thyroid hormone transport into the oligodendrocyte. These processes depend on maternal iodide supply, maternal T4 synthesis, maternal T4 placental transport and the conversion of T4 to T3 in the fetus by the Type II deiodinase. The discovery that children born with the Allan-Herndon-Dudely syndrome have a mutation in the thyroid transporter monocarboxylate 8 (MCT8) (250 )has accentuated the interest in many of the transporters (251).Thyroid hormone receptor development in brain occurs very early in gestation, certainly before the fetal thyroid begins to function which is around sixteen to eighteen weeks (5). In early gestation thyroid hormone effects on genes related to neurodevelopment, for example, myelin, can be recorded. Clinical Studies on the Role of Maternal Hypothyroidism for the Psycho-Neurological Outcome in the Progeny Man et al(252) first noted that children of mothers with inadequately treated hypothyroidism had significantly lower IQs than those born to adequately treated patients or normal controls. These pioneering data did not gain much clinical attention, probably because the prevailing
