Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


inadequately treated hypothyroidism had significantly lower IQs than those born to adequately treated patients or normal controls. These pioneering data did not gain much clinical attention, probably because the prevailing dogma, at that time, was that maternal TH did not cross the placenta . Impaired intellectual development has been reported in children born to women with non-iodine deficient hypothyroidism during pregnancy (253-255) as well as in children from hypothyroxinemic mothers (256- 261). Attention deficit disorder (262,263), autistic symptoms in offspring (264) and schizophrenia in later life (265) have been associated with maternal hypothyroxinemia. Attention deficit disorder was previously noted in offspring from mothers with thyroid autoimmunity (266). Children from mothers with anti thyroid peroxidase antibodies have been found to have intellectual impairment in early infancy (267) and a reduced childhood cognitive performance at age 4 and 7 and sensineural hearing loss at both ages (268).. Other studies have also shown suboptimal development in children exposed to hypothyroidism during pregnancy (269-271). If maternal T4 concentrations are corrected by the 20 th week (272) or prior to the 3 rd trimester (273,274) many of these adverse effects can be prevented..In addition, isolated hypothyroxinemia in the 2 nd trimester is not associated with impaired cognitive, language and motor scores at age 2 (275). These studies emphasise the temporal nature of fetal brain development (276) and underpin the notion that women should not have an abortion if hypothyroidism is found and treated in the first trimester The seminal study of Haddow et al (253) is worthy of further comment. They found that the full IQ scores of children whose mothers had a high TSH during gestation were 7 points lower than controls (p<0.005) and that 19% of them had scores of less than 85 compared to 5% of controls (p<0.007). However there was no IQ decrement noted in the prospective double blind randomized controlled antenatal thyroid screening study (CATS) study in children of both hypothyroxinemic and high TSH mothers studied at 3 years of age who received levothyroxine therapy during pregnancy compared to children whose mothers were not treated with levothyroxine (276). As mentioned above it is possible that the timing of thyroxine administration in gestation is an important factor (241).Indeed, a more extensive replication of the CATS study has reported no difference in IQ measurements in children up to the age of 5 whose mothers received or did not receive L-T4 during gestation,
