Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


replication of the CATS study has reported no difference in IQ measurements in children up to the age of 5 whose mothers received or did not receive L-T4 during gestation, but the drug was not commenced till late in the 2 nd trimester (277). In a Chinese prospective population-based development study of 1017 women with singleton pregnancies clinical hypothyroidism was associated with increased fetal loss, low birth weight, and congenital circulation system malformations. Subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with increased fetal distress, preterm delivery, poor vision development, and neurodevelopmental delay. Isolated hypothyroxinemia was related to fetal distress, small for gestational age, and musculoskeletal malformations as well as spontaneous abortion (234). An important association study from the population based prospective study from Rotterdam (Generation R), which included MRI scans on the children, reported that maternal FT4 showed an inverted U shaped association with child IQ, child grey matter volume and cortex volume(278). This suggests that optimal T4 concentrations during gestation might require to be in a narrower range than previously thought. Brain morphology studies have also shown abnormal corpus callosum development in children born to women treated for hypothyroidism(279) and this maternal condition may also contribute to abnormal cortical morphology in the offspring (280). Maternal and/ neonatal thyroid function at delivery in children born at or over 37 weeks' gestation was not associated with impaired neurodevelopment at 5.5 years (281) although. lower levels of cord T4 were associated with increments in the McCarthy scales at this age. In premature infants (<34 weeks gestation) higher maternal levels of TSH at delivery were associated with significantly lower scores on the general cognitive index at 5.5 yr.(282)The neurodevelopmental impairment is similar to that seen in iodine deficient areas (see chapter on iodine deficiency) and implies that iodine status should be normalised in regions of deficiency. However, much of the USA and parts of Europe are not iodine deficient which raises the question of routine screening of thyroid function during early pregnancy or even at preconception which will be discussed below. In summary, the current weight of evidence suggests that hypothyroidism and subclinical hypothyroidism and hypothyroxinemia all have an adverse effect on neurodevelopmental outcome in the progeny. It is however the case that not all the evidence shows this and much of the evidence relates to association studies, Despite this there is a reasonable case for treatment of the woman with subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy to
