Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


evidence shows this and much of the evidence relates to association studies, Despite this there is a reasonable case for treatment of the woman with subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy to prevent these outcomes. However,treatment should be carefully monitored. Management and Therapy of Gestational Hypothyroidism Administration of L-thyroxine is the treatment of choice for maternal hypothyroidism, when the iodine nutrition status is adequate. A number of studies have indicated that during pregnancy thyroxine requirements increase during gestation (283-286). The increase is due to the rapid rise in TBG levels resulting from the physiological rise in estrogen concentrations, the increased distribution volume of thyroid hormones (vascular, hepatic, and the fetal-placental unit), and finally the increased placental transport and metabolism of maternal T4(208). . If a pregnancy is planned, patients should have thyroid function tests measured soon after the missed menstrual period. If serum TSH is not increased at that time, tests should be repeated at 8-12 weeks and then again at 20 weeks, as the increase in hormone requirements may not become apparent until later during gestation. In women not receiving T4 who may have risk factors for thyroid disease (eg positive family history or other autoimmune disorder) thyroid function should be measured pre conception. If the TSH is less than 2.5mIU/L no action is required. If it is more than 3.5mIU/L thyroxine therapy may be indicated, especially if thyroid antibodies are present. If TSH is between 2.5 and 3.5mIU/L it would be prudent to check again in 4 weeks if possible. Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 100-150 µg/day or titrated according to body weight. In non pregnant women, the full replacement thyroxine dose is 1.7-2.0 µg/kg bw/day. During pregnancy, because of the increased requirements, the full replacement thyroxine dose should be increased to 2.0-2.4 mg/kg bw/day (208,287) Women who already take thyroxine before pregnancy usually need to increase their daily dosage by 30-50%, on average, above preconception dosage; appropriate dose increments must be made once pregnancy is confirmed t The preconception thyroxine dose should be adjusted aiming to maintain serum TSH near the low-normal range (288) which should be within the trimester specific reference range ( ie approx. 2.5 mIU/L) It has been suggested that if SCH is newly diagnosed in pregnancy a T4 dose of 1.20µg/kg/day is appropriate to achieve a TSH less than 4.2 mU/L(289). In general women who receive T4 because of previous ablative treatment
