Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


trimester, 33% of serum TSH measurements were at or above 3.0 mU/L (291). Even when the upper limit of TSH was defined as a serum TSH value above the 98th percentile of normal, 20% of values in 1st trimester and 23% in 2nd trimester were above this limit. In the UK , even in 18-45 year old pregnant women already on L-Thyroxine ,46% had a TSH level greater than 2.5 mU/L (292). These data suggest that the optimum care of pregnant women on L-thyroxine is not present despite evidence for its effect in reducing preterm birth and miscarriage (290,292). American Endocrine Society Guidelines recommend that as the potential benefits outweigh the the potential risks, women with SCH should receive T4 treatment (14,15). Women with autoimmunity (ie positive thyroid antibodies) should be carefully monitored during gestation as there is a tendency for a rise in TSH. If this occurs T4 therapy should be given. THYROTOXICOSIS Hyperthyroidism during pregnancy is relatively uncommon, with a prevalence estimated to range between 0.1% and 1% (0.4% clinical & 0.6% subclinical) (292). However, a population study of more than 400,000 births showed an incidence of 0.9% (293)Causes of thyrotoxicosis include those found in the general population, as well as others that occur specifically during pregnancy(294,295). While the commonest cause is Graves’ disease etiologies such as single toxic adenoma, toxic multinodular goiter, subacute or silent thyroiditis, iodide-induced thyrotoxicosis, and thyrotoxicosis factitia can occur but are uncommon during pregnancy. Molar disease should always be considered as it can potentially lead to severe thyrotoxicosis, particularly in pregnant women with a pre-existing autonomous or nodular goiter. However, since uncomplicated hydatidiform mole is easily diagnosed in early gestation, it rarely leads to severe thyrotoxicosis (52).. Other extremely rare causes of hyperthyroidism (described recently as isolated cases) include hyperplacentosis and struma ovarii (296). In women in the childbearing age, the most common cause of hyperthyroidism is GD, as this etiology accounts for 85% of clinical hyperthyroidism in pregnancy. Another cause of hyperthyroidism is hyperemesis gravidarum. This is common and requires differentiation from Graves’ disease (2) (see section on Hyperemesis gravidarum below). Clinical Diagnosis of Hyperthyroidism in Pregnancy Even though the historical clues and physical findings are the same in pregnant and non pregnant patients, the diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis may be difficult to make clinically during pregnancy. Nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue, anxiety, tachycardia, heat intolerance, warm moist skin, tremor and systolic murmur
