Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


pregnant patients, the diagnosis of thyrotoxicosis may be difficult to make clinically during pregnancy. Nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue, anxiety, tachycardia, heat intolerance, warm moist skin, tremor and systolic murmur may be mimicked by normal pregnancy. Alternatively, presence of goiter, ophthalmopathy and pretibial myxoedema obviously points to the suspicion of GD (see Table 14-8). A useful symptom of hyperthyroidism is that, instead of the customary weight gain, patients may report weight loss or, even more frequently perhaps, absence of weight gain despite an increased appetite (unless there is also excessive vomiting). Nausea (morning sickness) occurs frequently during normal pregnancy. However, the occurrence of hyperemesis gravidarum accompanied by weight loss must always raise the suspicion of hCG-induced hyperthyroidism. Table 14-8 Clinical features suggesting the possibility of hyperthyroidism due to Graves' disease in a pregnant patient Historical 1. Prior history of hyperthyroidism or autoimmune thyroid disease in the patient or her family. 2. Presence of typical symptoms of hyperthyroidism including weight loss (or failure to gain weight), palpitations, proximal muscle weakness, or emotional lability. 3. Symptoms suggesting Graves' disease such as ophthalmopathy or pretibial myxedema. 4. Thyroid enlargement. 5. Accentuation of normal symptoms of pregnancy such as heat intolerance, diaphoresis, and fatigue. 6. Pruritus.Physical examination 1. Pulse rate > 100. 2. Widened pulse pressure. 3. Eye signs of Graves' disease or pretibial myxedema. 4. Thyroid enlargement especially in iodine sufficient geographical areas. 5. Onycholysis. Laboratory Diagnosis Patients suspected of having hyperthyroidism require measurement of serum TSH, T4 and T3 levels, and anti-TSH receptor antibodies (TRAb). Virtually all patients with significant symptoms have a serum TSH <0.1 mU/L, as well as concurrent elevations in serum free T4 and T3 levels. However, interpretation of thyroid function tests must take into account the hCG-mediated decrease in serum TSH that occurs during pregnancy. Near the end of 1st trimester, at the time of peak hCG values, serum TSH levels may be transiently lowered to values below 0.4 mU/L in ~20% of euthyroid women (297,298). Thus, the degree and duration of TSH suppression (mainly but not only) in 1st trimester must be considered in making the differential diagnosis. Concerning T4 and T3 levels, the pitfalls and necessary caution in the interpretation of serum free T4 and T3 have been discussed earlier (see the section on thyroid function parameters in normal pregnancy). Patients with GD usually have positive thyroid antibodies (TG-Ab and TPO-Ab) and, therefore, antibody presence should
