Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


have been discussed earlier (see the section on thyroid function parameters in normal pregnancy). Patients with GD usually have positive thyroid antibodies (TG-Ab and TPO-Ab) and, therefore, antibody presence should alert the clinician to the possibility that autoimmune thyroid disease is the cause of symptoms evoking hyperthyroidism. Most patients with GD have detectable TRAb. Since TRAb production tends to undergo immunologic remission during the second half of pregnancy, detection of TRAb may depend upon gestational age at determination (299). Presence of TRAb in 1st trimester is highly useful in helping make the differential diagnosis between GD and other causes of gestational hyperthyroidism. Clinical Aspects of the Management of Graves’ Disease in Pregnancy Prepregnancy Counseling Prepregnancy counseling plays a very important role in the care of young women with Graves’ disease. All women of childbearing age affected with Graves’ hyperthyroidism should be strongly advised to seek contraception counseling, in order to avoid pregnancy while hyperthyroid (2,295). A discussion of the different hyperthyroid therapeutic choices is important for those women planning a pregnancy: ablative therapy, by 131I or surgery, or medical therapy. Before commencing specific treatment for a woman with GH in pregnancy it is essential to provide appropriate counselling advice [300). Risks to mother, fetus, and neonate from untreated GH during gestation are compelling reasons for recommending preconception counselling (PC). PC should include discussion as to the optimum treatment of GH in women wishing to become pregnant If ablative therapy is chosen the following recommendations are suggested:: Pregnancy test prior to ablation, Delay of conception on average of 6 months following therapy in order to adjust LT4 doses to target values for pregnancy (serum TSH 0.3-2.5). Determination of TSH-receptor antibody (TRAb); the gradual disappearance from the circulation post therapy depends on the type of treatment chosen; following thyroidectomy there is a gradual disappearance of TRAb titers, while following 131I therapy there is an increase in TRAb titers that may last for 12 months followed by a gradual fall in titers (301). Therefore, in patients with high TRAb titers surgery appears to be the therapy of choice in women contemplating pregnancy (302). B) For women on antithyroid drugs the following discussion with the patient and her family is recommended: a) If still in need to ATD for more than 2 years, the possibilities of remission during pregnancy are very low, the patient, most likely, will need ATD therapy through pregnancy (see section
