Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


in need to ATD for more than 2 years, the possibilities of remission during pregnancy are very low, the patient, most likely, will need ATD therapy through pregnancy (see section below on management of Graves’ disease in pregnancy). b) PTU may induce liver toxicity with potential liver failure requiring liver transplantation; therefore recommendations by the American Thyroid Association (13) limited the use of PTU to those patients allergic to MMI, in the treatment of thyroid storm and in the first trimester of pregnancy because of the rare instances of methimazole embryopathy. In a woman on MMI therapy at the time of conception or planning a pregnancy it is advisable to switch to PTU if it is deemed that ATD are required at that time and resume MMI after the first trimester. c) Close follow-up throughout the pregnancy for frequent blood tests and adjustment of ATD dose, since the need for dose adjustments is common. d) Possibility of disease aggravation in the first trimester and recurrence in the postpartum period, due to postpartum thyroiditis or recurrence of Graves’ (303). e) Recommendations regarding breastfeeding while on ATDs. f) TRAb determination for prediction of potential fetal or neonatal complications Complications of Hyperthyroidism and Pregnancy These are listed in table 14-9 . Untreated hyperthyroidism carries a high risk of complications (295,296) The risk of complications for mother and child , is related to the duration and adequate control of maternal hyperthyroidism. In women with unrecognized maternal GD infants showed severe prematurity (mean gestational age of 30 weeks at delivery) associated with very low birth weight (<2 Kg) and neonatal hyperthyroidism requiring treatment with ATD (308). In contrast, for those patients in whom the diagnosis was made early and treatment started promptly, the outcome was excellent. In 230 pregnant women with GD in Japan, no adverse impact on the outcome of pregnancy in patients with adequately treated Graves' disease was observed (309). Rare causes of thyrotoxicosis (eg due to an activating TSH receptor gene mutation) may also result in premature delivery and low birth weight (310) Table 14-9 Complications of Graves’ Hyperthyroidism in Pegnancy View in own window Category Item Reference Maternal Adverse drug effects Left ventricular dysfunction 304 Thyroid storm 305 Obstetric Antepartum Miscarriage Preeclampsia 306 Preterm labor [PTL] Stillbirth Gestational Hypertension Fetal thyroid dysfunction Obstetric Intrapartum Fetal distress Preterm deliveries Primary Cesarean Section Placental abruption Postpartum Hemorrhage Neonatal Primary Outcome Birth weight <
