Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


Preeclampsia 306 Preterm labor [PTL] Stillbirth Gestational Hypertension Fetal thyroid dysfunction Obstetric Intrapartum Fetal distress Preterm deliveries Primary Cesarean Section Placental abruption Postpartum Hemorrhage Neonatal Primary Outcome Birth weight < 2500 g Macrosomia >4000 g Apgar scores NCU admission Respiratory Distress Syndrome (RDS) Congenital abnormalities Thyroid dysfunction 307 Fetal & Neonatal Adverse Effects of Maternal Hyperthyroidism Fetal Hyperthyroidism Although rare, this is a preventable complication with potential severe sequelae, including death (311) Clinical evaluation at the time of maternal hyperthyroidism diagnosis, will indicate the few women at risk, namely those with: a) active Graves’ hyperthyroidism, b) previous history of Graves' disease treated with ablation therapy, either surgery or 131I, and c) mothers with active Graves’ hyperthyroidism undergoing therapeutic thyroidectomy in the second trimester of pregnancy . A determination of TRAb titer should be obtained between 22 and 26 weeks gestation, a value of 3-5 times above normal is an indication for fetal evaluation for detection of potential fetal thyrotoxicosis. The fetal thyroid TSH receptor starts responding to Thyroid Stimulating Immunoglobulin (TSI) stimulation during the second trimester. The placental transfer of IgG from mother to fetus increases by the end of the second trimester, reaching a level in the fetus similar to that of the mother around 30 weeks' gestation (2). Therefore, the symptoms of fetal hyperthyroidism are usually not evident until 22 to 26 weeks of gestation. Evaluation of fetal hyperthyroidism can be assessed a) by fetal ultrasonographic data, showing the presence of fetal goiter, tachycardia (persistent fetal heart rate of >160 bpm);, b) fetal heart monitor tracing showing a sustained baseline of 170 to 180 beats per minute with moderate variability that exhibits acceleration with a lack of deceleration,[unique to fetal thyrotoxicosis (312)] c) growth retardation, increased fetal motility. Other signs developing later are intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), oligohydramnios or hydrops, and accelerated bone maturation (311). This last sign is diagnosed by the presence of distal femoral ossification center before 31 weeks gestation (313) and is highly predictive of the disease. Serial cordocentesis for diagnosis and monitoring drug therapy has been proposed, but its value has been questioned, restricted to centers with expertise (314) because of a significant risk to the fetus (complications and/or fetal loss in 1% of cases) . It is generally recommended only if the information to be gained will change therapy. When fetal hyperthyroidism is suspected in utero, it is reasonable to initiate ATD treatment
