Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


cases) . It is generally recommended only if the information to be gained will change therapy. When fetal hyperthyroidism is suspected in utero, it is reasonable to initiate ATD treatment with MMI (20 mg/day) combined with thyroxine administration, when required, to maintain maternal euthyroidism. Fetal Hypothyroidism Inhibitory TRAb production has been shown to cause hypothyroidism transiently in neonates born to mothers with GD (315) Administration of ATD to treat maternal GD may induce fetal hypothyroidism that clearly should be avoided by maintaining maternal circulating thyroid hormone levels in the upper quartile of the normality range (295,296). Radioactive iodine has unintentionally been administered (in exceptional cases) to GD women who were unaware that they were pregnant and who decided, nevertheless, to maintain the pregnancy. Despite the risks of performing cordocentesis, it has been shown to be useful to predict the fetal outcome (316). Fetal Goiter in Mothers with Graves’ Disease The treatment of maternal hyperthyroidism may be associated with the presence of fetal goiter, thus raising clinical concern with regard to its etiology and management. Fetal goiter may result directly from the placental transfer of thyroid growth-stimulating effects of maternal TRAb, as well as from the inhibitory effect of ATD on the fetal gland inducing fetal hypothyroidism (317). The spectrum of neonatal thyroid dysfunction in pregnant women with GD receiving ATD can range from frank hypothyroidism (secondary to the exposure to MMI and maternal blocking TRAb) to neonatal Graves’ thyrotoxicosis (secondary to exposure to maternal stimulating TRAb) thus making the prenatal diagnosis extremely difficult .. Of 72 mothers with past or present GD all infants from 31 pregnancies with no detectable TRAb and mothers without ATD treatment, were normal at birth. In the remaining 41 pregnancies, 30 women had positive TRAb and/or a treatment with ATD: fetal thyroid ultrasound was normal (32 wks gestation) and there was almost no evidence of fetal thyroid dysfunction. However,11 fetuses were found to have a goiter, of which 7 were hypothyroid and 4 hyperthyroid. The main risk factors for fetal hyperthyroidism were poorly controlled maternal hyperthyroidism and elevated TRAb. The risk factor for hypothyroidism was mothers being treated with ATD and having a serum T4 in the normal range (rather than upper limit of normal). The authors recommended TRAb measurement in women with current or past GD at the beginning of pregnancy, and close observation of those pregnancies with elevated TRAb or ATD treatment by
