Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


due to activating of mutations in the TSH receptor molecule (320). It is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and, in contrast to Graves' neonatal hyperthyroidism, the condition persists indefinitely. Treatment with antithyroid medications followed by thyroid ablation therapy will eventually be needed in addition to genetic counseling. Neonatal Central Hypothyroidism Infants born to mothers with uncontrolled hyperthyroidism due to GD may present with central congenital hypothyroidism (296). High maternal serum T4 levels, during a prolonged period of time, cross the placental barrier leading to suppression of fetal TSH by pituitary feedback. In most cases, the diagnosis is made at birth or shortly thereafter, on the basis of a low neonatal serum total T4 contrasting with an inappropriately low serum TSH. In the majority of these infants, there is a return to euthyroidism within a few weeks or months; rarely, this condition may be due to mutation of the TSH receptor and result in a problem with neonatal screening. (321) There may also be a risk of thyroid ‘disintegration’ (i.e. abnormal ultrasound patterns found during childhood), possibly as the result of prolonged central hypothyroidism (322)... Management of Graves’ Disease in Pregnancy Graves' hyperthyroidism (GH) usually tends to improve gradually during gestation, although exacerbations can be observed in the first weeks. The spontaneous improvement: may be due to the partial immunosuppressive state of pregnancy (progressive decrease in TRAb production; changes in cytokine production) the rise in maternal serum TBG levels that tends to reduce serum free T4 & T3 fractions and obligatory iodine losses specific for pregnancy that may, paradoxically, constitute an advantage for women with GD. There is dispute as to whether the balance between blocking and stimulating TRAb activity may be modified in pregnancy (299). The exacerbation of thyrotoxicosis in women with GD during early pregnancy may be due in part to the stimulatory effect of high hCG levels (vide infra). Antithyroid Drugs Although antithyroid drugs (ATD) are the main treatment for GD during pregnancy (319,294) recent developments relating to the adverse effects of ATD in pregnancy have led to more caution in their use (323) Recommendations for use of PTU in the first trimester, and MMI later, are discussed below. The overall goal of therapy is to control maternal disease by maintaining the patient at a high euthyroid level, while minimizing the risk of fetal hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism by using the smallest possible dose of ATD. The initial
