Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


maternal disease by maintaining the patient at a high euthyroid level, while minimizing the risk of fetal hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism by using the smallest possible dose of ATD. The initial recommended dose of PTU is 100 to 450 mg/day in 3 divided doses or MMI 10 to 20 mg/day; very seldom a larger initial dose is required. In patients with minimum symptoms, an initial dose of 10 mg of MMI daily or PTU 50 mg two or three times a day may be initiated. In most patients, clinical improvement is seen in 2 to 6 weeks, and improvement in thyroid tests occurs within the first 2 weeks of therapy, with normalization to chemical euthyroidism in 3 to 8 weeks in over 50% of patients (324). Resistance to drug therapy is unusual, most likely due to poor patient compliance. With clinical and thyroid test improvement, the dose of antithyroid medication should be reduced by half of the initial dose. The daily dose is adjusted every two to four weeks according to the results of thyroid tests. Serum TSH may remain suppressed despite the normalization of thyroid hormone levels for many weeks, frequently through pregnancy . The ATD dosage should be maintained at a minimum and should indeed be continued, in low dose if necessary, to the end of gestation, although there are differing opinions concerning this strategy. Patients should be assessed at regular intervals, every 2 to 4 weeks at the onset of treatment and every four weeks thereafter, to allow for proper medication adjustments to keep the FT4 or FT4I within target goals. Clinical clues of good therapeutic response are improvement in symptoms and weight gain. High FT4 levels (even in the mildly thyrotoxic range) and the presence of TRAb antibodies are useful indices of the fetal need for antithyroid treatment to prevent fetal goitre and maintenance of fetal euthyroid state (325) Continuing ATD to the end of gestation will prevent hyperthyroidism in labor which is undesirable and, if carefully monitored, should be a safe strategy. There is evidence from a retrospective non- randomized trial that continuing ATD throughout pregnancy substantially prevents postpartum recurrence of Graves’ hyperthyroidism without adverse effects on the fetus (326). However, postpartum recurrence of Graves’ hyperthyroidism has been documented more frequently (84 %) in patients previously treated for Graves’ disease with ATD before a successful pregnancy compared to a rate of 56 % in women similarly
