Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


risk of hepatic toxicity due to PTU has been emphasized due to the number of cases requiring liver transplantation and as a cause of death (329). MMI can also induce a milder cholestatic liver toxicity not associated with liver failure (330). While PTU can rarely cause antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis (331) agranulocytosis and liver failure were very rare in a large population survey in pregnancy of PTU and MMI (332); birth defects were the dominant side effect in pregnancy, their relative incidence being re-evaluated recently by the late Professor Laurberg and his Danish colleagues. A detailed literature analysis concluded that both MMI and PTU use in early pregnancy may result in birth defects in 2-3% of exposed children and that the highest risk was in gestational weeks 6-10 (ie during organogenesis)(333). A meta analysis concurred with this view (334). This has therapeutic implications (vide infra). It is claimed that studies which have not found ATD associated birth defects were either not sufficiently powered or did not study outcomes at optimal ages (335). Aplasia cutis, occurred in a small group of infants born of mothers on MMI therapy (336),. It has been reported in infants from mothers receiving PTU but much less commonly (337). ”Methimazole embryopathy” includes choanal atresia and/or esophageal atresia, minor dysmorphic features and development delay An OR (odds ratio) of 18 (95% Cl 3-121) for choanal atresia among infants whose mothers received MMI in the first trimester compared to the general population was noted (338); PTU did not seem to be a major human teratogen in one study (339) but 3/47 PTU 1 st trimester exposed mothers had children with congenital abnormalities (229) A retrospective review (340) of the pregnancy outcomes of 6744 pregnant women with Graves’ disease in relation to all observed congenital anomalies showed a significantly higher rate of major anomalies in the MMI group of babies (4.1%) compared to those seen in the PTU group (2.1%) [p=0.002]. However, examination of Danish records of more than 817,000 infants showed that birth defects (in the neck and face and urinary system) due to PTU do indeed occur but are generally less severe than in children exposed to MMI or CBZ; but these children did require surgical correction (341). In line with these data a meta-analysis indicated that PTU was a safer choice for treatment according to the risk of birth defects but that a shift between MMI
