Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


(341). In line with these data a meta-analysis indicated that PTU was a safer choice for treatment according to the risk of birth defects but that a shift between MMI and PTU failed to provide protection against birth defects. That is to say both drugs can be associated with birth defects (342). An advisory committee recommended limiting the use of PTU to the first trimester of pregnancy (343). Exceptions to this are patients with MMI allergy or those with thyroid storm. It is accepted that when PTU is not available MMI can be used in the first trimester. PTU and MMI are equipotent in the management of hyperthyroidism in pregnancy, both drugs having similar placental transfer kinetics (344). Furthermore, when the efficacies of both drugs have been compared in pregnant women, euthyroidism was achieved equally with equivalent amounts of drugs and at the same weeks of treatment (345 ). Obstetric and neonatal outcomes were no different in both groups. In view of the recent information on teratogenic effects of thionamide drugs in pregnancy revised management guidelines have been suggested (13). Women taking MMI or PTU should be instructed to confirm potential pregnancy as soon as possible and contact their physician immediately pregnancy is diagnosed. If she is on low dose ATD the physician should consider discontinuing ATDs (depending on clinical disease status) because of potential teratogenic effects. Clinical and laboratory testing should occur every 2 weeks or with longer intervals if euthyroidism persists. If ATD are required PTU should be used through 16 weeks of pregnancy. Pregnant women receiving MMI who are in need of continuing therapy during pregnancy should be switched to PTU as early as possible; a dose ratio of approximately 1:20 should be used (e.g. methimazole 5 mg daily = PTU 100 mg twice daily). If ATD therapy is required after 16 weeks gestation, it remains unclear whether PTU should be continued or therapy changed to methimazole as both medications are associated with potential adverse effects and shifting potentially may lead to a period of less-tight control. General treatment guidelines are shown in table 14-10 Table 14-10 Treatment guidelines for Graves' disease during pregnancy View in own window 1. Monitor pulse, weight gain, thyroid size, serum free T4 and T3, and TSH every 2-4 weeks, and titrate ATD as necessary. 2. At pregnancy diagnosis see above paragraph.PTU recommended for 1 st trimester. Then switch to MMI. 3.
