Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


T4 and T3, and TSH every 2-4 weeks, and titrate ATD as necessary. 2. At pregnancy diagnosis see above paragraph.PTU recommended for 1 st trimester. Then switch to MMI. 3. Use the lowest dosage of ATD that maintains the patient in a euthyroid or mildly hyperthyroid state. The ATD dose can usually be adjusted downward after 1st trimester and often (but not always) discontinued during last trimester. 4. Do not attempt to normalize serum TSH. Serum TSH concentrations between 0.1 & 0.4 mU/L are generally appropriate, but lower levels are acceptable if the patient is clinically satisfactory. 5. While as little as 100-200 mg PTU/day may affect fetal thyroid function, dosages as high as 400 mg PTU (~30 mg MMI) have been used. 6. Communicate regularly with obstetric care providers, especially with respect to fetal pulse and growth in the 2nd half of gestation. 7. Consider thyroidectomy if persistently high doses of ATD are required (PTU >600 mg/d or MMI >40 mg/d), or if the patient is not compliant or cannot tolerate the administration of ATD. 8. Beta-adrenergic blocking agents and low doses of iodine may be used peri-operatively to control hyperthyroidism. 9. ATD will often need to be reinstituted or increased after delivery. Beta-Adrenergic Blocking Agents Propranolol may be used transiently to control symptoms of acute hyperthyroid disease and for pre-operative preparation, and there are no significant teratogenic effects of propranolol reported in humans or animals. If a patient requires long-term propranolol administration, careful monitoring of fetal growth is advised, because of a possible association with intrauterine growth restriction (346) Iodides Iodine crosses the placenta. If given in large amounts and for prolonged periods, it may induce fetal goiter and hypothyroidism. However, iodine has been used in small amounts, 6 to 40 mg/day in a group of pregnant Japanese women with mild hyperthyroidism (347). Elevation in serum TSH was observed in 2 of 35 newborns, and the mothers were slightly hyperthyroid at the time of delivery. In general however, iodine therapy is not routinely indicated in the treatment of hyperthyroidism in pregnancy. Radioactive Iodine Administration Radioactive iodine administration is contraindicated during pregnancy. In case of inadvertent radioiodine administration, the fetus is exposed to radiation from mother’s blood (approximately 0.5-1.0 Rad per mci administered). Since fetal thyroid uptake of radioiodine commences after the 12th week, exposure to maternal radioiodine prior to this time is not associated with fetal thyroid dysfunction
