Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


Rad per mci administered). Since fetal thyroid uptake of radioiodine commences after the 12th week, exposure to maternal radioiodine prior to this time is not associated with fetal thyroid dysfunction (348). However, treatment with radioiodine after 12 weeks leads to significant radiation effects on the fetal thyroid. Multiple incidents of inadvertent exposure to radioiodine have been reported, causing fetal thyroid destruction, in utero hypothyroidism, and subsequent neural damage (349). Surgery Subtotal thyroidectomy in pregnancy is effective in managing the disease and usually should be performed in the second trimester. Unacceptable side effects of ATDs,poor patient compliance and very large goiter with potential obstruction are indications for surgery as well as patient preference .The mother should be prepared with β-blocking agents to rendered her hemodynamicaly stable and with Lugol’s solution for at least 10 days to reduce thyroid gland vascularity. A TRAb assay should also be performed as the fetus is at risk of hyperthyroidism (350). Breast Feeding in Mothers with Treated Graves’ Disease Lactation during ATD therapy has been discussed (351,). PTU and MMI are secreted in human milk, although PTU less so because of more extensive binding to albumin. With moderate doses of MMI or PTU (MMI: <20 mg/d; PTU: <250-300 mg/d), the risk to the infant is practically negligible.. The drug should be taken by the mother after a feeding but there is no need to monitor infant thyroid function. There is also a possibility that allergic reactions associated with ATD (agranulocytosis or rash) may occur in the infant. Wide experience has confirmed that the use of ATD in lactatin mothers does not pose a risk to the neonate and appears to be safe. Gestational Non Autoimmune Hyperthyroidism Thyrotoxicosis and hCG Non autoimmune gestational hyperthyroidism or gestational transient thyrotoxicosis “GTT” is characterized by elevated serum free T4 and T3 levels, suppressed TSH, variable clinical evidence of hyperthyroidism, usually minimal thyroid enlargement, and absence of thyroid auto-antibodies and ophthalmopathy. The syndrome occurs transiently near the end of the 1st trimester of gestation, usually in hitherto healthy women who have otherwise a normal pregnancy, and it is frequently associated with excessive vomiting (296). GTT occurs in women without past history of GD and absence of TRAb. GTT is not always clinically apparent, due to its transient nature but is common in hyperemesis gravidarum (HG) up to 45%). The severity of GTT is related to serum hCG levels which are elevated.
