Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


clinically apparent, due to its transient nature but is common in hyperemesis gravidarum (HG) up to 45%). The severity of GTT is related to serum hCG levels which are elevated. In patients with HG and GTT, thyroid function normalized by the second trimester without antithyroid treatment. GTT does not affect pregnancy outcomes (352). The prevalence of GTT is highly variable, being as low as 0.3% (Japan) or as high as 11% (Hong Kong) (353,354). A figure of around 2-3% of normal pregnancies is the usual case in Europe. (2). GTT is always transient; elevated serum free T4 values revert gradually to normal in parallel with the decrease in hCG concentrations. Serum TSH often remains partially (or totally) suppressed for several weeks after free T4 reverted to normal, i.e. until after mid-gestation (355). Twin pregnancy is associated with sustained and high hCG concentrations Peak hCG values are significantly higher (almost double) and of a much longer duration in women with a twin pregnancy (up to 6 weeks compared to a few days in singleton pregnancy).. While peak hCG values lasted only for a few days in singleton pregnancy, peak hCG levels (>100,000 UI/L) lasted for up to six weeks in twin pregnancies (356). Hence intense vomiting is more frequently noted in women with a twin pregnancy. Treatment In most cases, no specific treatment is required and symptoms can be relieved by administration of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for a short period, while waiting for the spontaneous recovery of elevated thyroid hormones to occur. Hydration and antiemetics may be needed. In patients with a severe clinical presentation (clear symptomatic hyperthyroidism) it is important to rule out the presence of Graves’ disease by measurement of TRAb. Therapy with PTU for a few weeks has been suggested by some. Pathogenic Mechanisms in GTT The etiology of the syndrome is due to hCG itself or derivatives of hCG (52). Based on the example of GTT associated with twin pregnancy, a direct quantitative effect of elevated hCG concentrations to stimulate the thyroid gland is probably sufficient to explain hyperthyroidism in most pregnant women, provided that hCG remains above 75,000-100,000 UI/L for a sufficient period of time. Thus, GTT is directly related to both the amplitude and duration of peak hCG values (357). Human CG acts as a weak TSH agonist to increase cAMP production, iodide transport and cell growth in thyrocytes (52). It remains possible that abnormal
