Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


of peak hCG values (357). Human CG acts as a weak TSH agonist to increase cAMP production, iodide transport and cell growth in thyrocytes (52). It remains possible that abnormal h CG molecular variants, with a prolonged half life, are produced in these situations explaining sustained prolonged high circulating hCG levels (52). hCG molecular variants with a more potent thyrotropic activity have been detected, although these variants are more usually found in women with hydatidiform mole or choriocarcinoma (358). The hCG stimulation of the thyroid is related to the marked homology between hCG and TSH molecules, as well as between LH/CG and TSH receptors (259). Gestational non autoimmune hyperthyroidism can be considered an example of an endocrine ‘spill-over’ syndrome, a concept based on molecular mimicry between hormone ligands and their receptors (52). TSH Receptor Mutations Hypersensitive to hCG The thyrocyte may be a passive bystander of abnormal thyrotropic activity of hCG in GTT, or it may play an active role in its response to hCG through variable degrees of sensitivity of the TSH receptor. A woman with recurrent gestational hyperthyroidism was reported (122) who, after two miscarriages, presented with overt hyperthyroidism and hyperemesis early in pregnancy,. During her next pregnancy, she experienced a relapse of the same situation. The patient’s mother had also been diagnosed with hyperthyroidism during her 2nd and 3rd gestations, mistaken for GD. Study of the TSH receptor of this patient disclosed a single mutation in the extracellular domain of the TSH receptor (K183R), rendering the mutant receptor highly sensitive to hCG, and accounting for recurrent thyrotoxicosis during pregnancies in the presence of normal hCG levels. This finding remained unique until the same group described another case in 2016 (123). It is possible that some women who develop GTT may have an abnormality at the level of the TSH receptor, but perhaps not the same mutation as described (see Figure 14-14). Figure14- 14 TSH receptor mutation, with a Lysine to Arginine mutation in position 183 of the ecto-domain. The graph on the left shows that the mutation confers high sensitivity to hCG (red curve), compared with wild type TSH receptor (blue curve). The family tree (upper right) shows the pedigree of the patient. (from 122). Hyperemesis Gravidarum and Gestational Hyperthyroidism Hyperemesis Gravidarum (HG) is reported to occur in 0.3 to 1.0% of pregnancies; it is defined as persistent nausea and vomiting in the first trimester of pregnancy,
