Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


and Gestational Hyperthyroidism Hyperemesis Gravidarum (HG) is reported to occur in 0.3 to 1.0% of pregnancies; it is defined as persistent nausea and vomiting in the first trimester of pregnancy, resulting in greater than 5% weight loss, ketonuria, dehydration liver and electrolyte abnormalities (hypokalemia, metabolic alkalosis, hyponatremia, hypochloremia) in severe cases (359). The onset of nausea is at about 4 to 6 week’s gestation, with worsening by 7- 9 weeks gestation, resolution by the end of the first trimester in 60% of cases, and complete resolution by 20 weeks in the vast majority of women. The incidence of hyperthyroidism in women with HG depends on the severity of symptoms, ethnic background, perhaps dietary iodine intake, interpretation of thyroid tests and other unknown factors. The diagnosis of HG is based on the presence of clinical and physical clues: lack of hyperthyroid symptoms before conception, similar symptoms in previous pregnancies, and absence of goiter or Graves’ ophthalmopathy. Serum FT4 or Free Thyroxine Index (FT4I) are above the reference range, serum TSH is suppressed or undetectable and markers of thyroid autoimmunity (TPOAb and TRAb) are absent. In less than 20 % of affected women, serum TT3 is slightly elevated. Ethnic variation in the incidence of HG suggesting strong evidence for a genetic component of HG. has been noted in a Norwegian study which showed 2.2% of Pakistani women; 1.9% of Turkish women and 0.5% of Norwegian women (360). A subsequent study found that, sisters and mothers were more affected than controls (361), An association between HG, hyperthyroidism and hydatidiform mole, has been documented (39). From the clinical aspect the most severely affected women have the lowest TSH and the highest FT4 and FT3 (many in the thyrotoxic range) (362).. Antithyroid medications are not required in the vast majority of cases. In one series in which antithyroid medication was used, pregnancy outcome was not significantly different to a similar group of patients receiving no therapy (363). Occasionally, severe vomiting and hyperthyroidism may require parenteral nutrition The differential diagnosis from Graves’ hyperthyroidism may be difficult, as vomiting may also be a presenting symptom of hyperthyroidism of Graves' disease. The diagnosis of transient hyperthyroidism of hyperemesis gravidarum should be considered in women with severe vomiting, no clinical manifestations of Graves' disease, and biochemical evidence of hyperthyroidism. Vomiting should be persistent and severe with a significant weight loss, since most women with morning sickness of pregnancy have
