Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


clinical manifestations of Graves' disease, and biochemical evidence of hyperthyroidism. Vomiting should be persistent and severe with a significant weight loss, since most women with morning sickness of pregnancy have normal thyroid function tests . Thyroid gland color flow Doppler sonography may be helpful in the diagnosis (364). Hyperemesis Gravidarum may also occur in women with Graves’ hyperthyroidism and in those with a previous history of Graves’ hyperthyroidism in remission; this is explained by the thyrotrophic action of hCG early in gestation. The differential diagnosis between the two entities may be difficult, the presence of TRAb favoring the diagnosis of Graves’ hyperthyroidism. Trophoblastic diseases, partial and complete hydatidiform moles, and choriocarcinoma are other causes of hyperthyroidism early in pregnancy. Patients may present without symptoms in spite of chemical hyperthyroidism, or with various degrees of severity, including congestive heart failure. Evacuation of the mole eliminates the source of the excessive hCG and reverses the clinical and biochemical features of hyperthyroidism. Treatment with β-adrenergic blocking agents is effective in controlling the symptoms. NODULAR THYROID DISEASE Thyroid Nodule Growth During Pregnancy Thyroid nodules can be detected in up to 10% of pregnant women. In an iodine deficient area there was no correlation between pregnancy and nodular thyroid disease (365). In a Chinese population pregnancy is associated with an increase in preexisting thyroid nodules as well as new thyroid nodule formation (366). In a retrospective study from the California Cancer Registry from 1991 to 1999, 129 cases of thyroid cancer were diagnosed during pregnancy: 3.3/100,000 diagnosed before pregnancy; 0.3/100,000 at the time of delivery and 10.8/100,000 within one year after delivery (367). Diagnostic Evaluation and Management of a Thyroid Nodule in Pregnancy Fine needle aspiration biopsy is the first investigation of choice and in one report yielded a malignancy/suspicious result in 35%. (368). In the presence of a single thyroid nodule detected on physical examination, or a dominant nodule in a multinodular gland, confirmed by ultrasonography, the following approach is suggested : a) solid lesion <1cm, follow up in the postpartum; b) nodules >1-1.5 cm, should be considered for FNA if there are suspicious findings on ultrasound, c) in the presence of tracheal obstruction, immediate surgery; d) if the FNA is diagnostic of malignancy or it is a suspicious lesion, some authors recommend that surgery may be postponed until after delivery, unless there are lymph node metastases or the lesion is a large primary
