Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


of differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) have stated that persistence /recurrence of DTC is significantly higher in pregnant patients (376) and that pregnancy was associated with increase in size of papillary microcarcinoma (377), More studies are required on follow up and mechanisms for these observations. Pregnancy and Co-existing Thyroid Malignancy Whether women already treated for thyroid malignancy should become pregnant is of concern, but current evidence suggests that treated differentiated thyroid cancer without evidence of residual disease should not inhibit an intended pregnancy. A meta analysis of the association of thyroid carcinoma with pregnancy concluded that multiple pregnancies and a <5 year interval were indetified as high risk factors for thyroid carcinoma but thyroid carcinoma during pregnancy was not associated with a significant risk of lymphatic and distant metastases (378). In a retrospective analysis on 36 women who became pregnant a median of 4.3 years after initial therapy for differentiated thyroid carcinoma, and were evaluated a median of 4 months after delivery (0.1-1.7 years), total thyroidectomy was performed in 80% and lobectomy in 20% (379). From the clinical progression and serum thyroglobulin (Tg) values it was concluded that pregnancy “is probably a mild stimulus to cancer growth as evidence by minor disease progression in some patients with known structural disease before pregnancy”. Hirsch et al (380) evaluated 63 consecutive women (90 births), followed from 1992 to 2009 who had delivered at least once after total thyroidectomy plus 131-Iodine (in 58 of them) for papillary thyroid cancer. Serum thyroglobulin (Tg) values and neck ultrasound were compared before and after pregnancy. Six women out of the 63 showed disease progression during the first pregnancy and two had disease progression only during the second pregnancy. Serum TSH levels during pregnancy correlated with disease persistence before pregnancy and disease progression during pregnancy. An interesting finding was that a non-suppressed TSH level during pregnancy did not stimulate disease progression during pregnancy; They concluded that pregnancy does not cause thyroid cancer recurrence in PTC survivors who have no structural or biochemical evidence of disease persistence at the time of conception. A study of 24 patients with papillary cancer suggested that PTC during pregnancy may be more locoregionally aggressive but no difference in survival or recurrence was demonstrated compared to non pregnant women (381). The conclusion from these studies indicate no progression of the disease in women free of disease before pregnancy, however there is a possibility of
