Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


compared to non pregnant women (381). The conclusion from these studies indicate no progression of the disease in women free of disease before pregnancy, however there is a possibility of progression in those patients with evidence of residual cancer at the time of conception. Further studies are needed before a firm recommendation could be offered to patients In patients who are clinically and biochemically free of disease but who present with a high risk tumor, TSH suppression should be maintained with serum TSH levels between 0.1 – 0.5 mU/L. In low-risk patients free of disease, TSH may be kept within the low normal range (0.3–1.5 mU/L). Finally, in patients who have not undergone remnant ablation, who are clinically free of disease and have undetectable suppressed serum Tg and normal neck US, the serum TSH may be allowed to remain in the low normal range (0.3–1.5 mU/L) (371). The recent ATA guidelines(13) suggest that PTC detected in early pregnancy should be monitored sonographically. If it grows substantially before 24-26 weeks gestation, or if cytologically malignant cervical lymph nodes are present, surgery should be considered during pregnancy. However, if the disease remains stable by midgestation, or if it is diagnosed in the second half of pregnancy, surgery may be deferred until after delivery.The impact of pregnancy on women with newly-diagnosed medullary carcinoma or anaplastic cancer is unknown. However, a delay in treatment is likely to adversely impact outcome. Therefore, surgery should be strongly considered, following assessment of all clinical factors. Effect of Previous 131 Iodine Therapy Previous 131I therapy does not result in demonstrable adverse events in subsequent pregnancies (382). One of the most common concerns in young people, male and female, is the potential side effects on future fertility and pregnancies following Iodine 131 therapy, both for Graves’ therapy and thyroid cancer. The majority of studies (383-385) concluded that in young men, following 131Iodine doses of up to 3.7 GBq, serum FSH and LH increases with some oligospermia, with normalization within 18 months following treatment. There are few cases of permanent damage, related to patient age, therefore it is recommended to perform a semen analysis before treatment. The risk of testicular dysfunction is increased after repeated or high cumulative radioiodine activity (386). No effects on the progeny have been reported. The effect on women is very consistent in the many reported series. Women may have irregular menses in the first twelve
