Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


(386). No effects on the progeny have been reported. The effect on women is very consistent in the many reported series. Women may have irregular menses in the first twelve months following therapy, with restitution of normal cycling and fertility thereafter. In a review of 54 studies (387) there was no increase in miscarriages, congenital malformations, or prematurity compared to previous treatment. Early onset of menopause has been reported (387). Overall doses up to 3.7 GBq resulted only in transient menstrual cycle abnormalities lasting up to one year, but no permanent ovarian failure. Although there are no specific studies assessing the risk of pregnancies within 12 months of 131Iodine treatment, the overall consensus by experts in the field is to postpone pregnancy for one year after ablation therapy. The importance of achieving a serum TSH within target should be emphasized. Determination of serum hCG in addition to the pregnancy test on the day of radioactive therapy is recommended, since several cases of false negative pregnancy tests have been reported. Thyroid hormone administration is justified to achieve a slightly suppressed (but detectable) serum TSH in pregnant women with an FNAB positive for or suspicious for cancer and who elect to delay surgical treatment until postpartum. POSTPARTUM THYROID DYSFUNCTION In addition to changes in circulating thyroid hormone concentrations observed during gestation (1), pronounced alterations in the immune system are evident (388). The cellular changes consist of a change from the so-called Th1 state to a predominance of cytokines such as IL-4 consistent with a Th2 status. On the humoral side the titre of anti thyroid peroxidase antibodies (anti TPOAb), found in 10% of pregnant women at 14-16 weeks gestation, decreases markedly during the 2 nd and 3 rd trimesters. At birth the Th2 status abruptly reverts back to the non pregnant Th1 position and this is accompanied by a dramatic rebound in the titre of antiTPOAb which reaches a maximum between 3 and 6 months postpartum (‘immune rebound phenomenon’). If thyrotropin receptor stimulating antibodies (TRAb) are present in early pregnancy they behave in a similar manner through gestation and the postpartum period. These immunological changes at delivery and the postpartum set the scene for the development of postpartum thyroid dysfunction. The changes in postpartum thyroid dysfunction may be transient or permanent and may be due to destructive or stimulating disease (Fig 14-15). Figure 14-15 (from 389) Patterns of Postpartum Thyroid Dysfunction POSTPARTUM
