Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


in postpartum thyroid dysfunction may be transient or permanent and may be due to destructive or stimulating disease (Fig 14-15). Figure 14-15 (from 389) Patterns of Postpartum Thyroid Dysfunction POSTPARTUM GRAVES’ DISEASE Individual patients at high risk of postpartum onset of Graves' disease can be found in early pregnancy by the detection of TRAb. Up to 40% of women with Graves’ hyperthyroidism have been found to occur after a recent pregnancy (390) and The PP period is significantly associated with a relapse of hyperthyroidism in GD patients being in remission after ATD (391). It is important to differentiate postpartum Graves' disease with accompanying hyperthyroidism from the other causes of postpartum hyperthyroidism. The presence of circulating TRAb , radioiodine uptake, together with clinical examination and thyroid scintiscanning will usually resolve any diagnostic difficulty. A combination of positive TRAb and high thyroid blood flow suggests the presence of Graves’ disease (392). Spectral Doppler sonography may also be useful at this time (393). However silent thyroiditis (i.e. postpartum thyroiditis) commonly develops concomitantly with the activation of Graves’ disease and may delay or mask the development of Graves’ hyperthyroidism .The serum thyroglobulin concentration, which is raised in postpartum destructive thyroiditis with hyperthyroidism, has also been shown to be useful for the differentiation of this condition from Graves’ hyperthyroidism following delivery. Therapy of postpartum Graves’ hyperthyroidism should be carried out by the usual methods remembering that radioiodine is contraindicated during breast feeding. In addition, radiation safety requirements may make it very difficult for the mother to care for her new born child. Ideally another carer should look after the child for at least a week if an activity of 400-600 MBq (app. 10-16 mci) is administered. Alternatively the patient may be treated with antithyroid drugs at this stage. Clearly, prevention of postpartum patients Graves’ hyperthyroidism may be achieved by adequate treatment of the condition before the onset of gestation (394). Screening for TRAb during pregnancy may detect patients at risk of postpartum relapse POSTPARTUM THYROIDITIS Postpartum patients with lassitude and other symptoms of hypothyroidism were described in 1948 and these complaints were treated successfully with thyroid extract (395). The syndrome remained generally unrecognised until the 1970s when reports from Japan and Canada rediscovered the existence of postpartum thyroid disease and established the nature of the condition to be related to the immune rebound phenomenon (see above). Several reviews are available (396-399). Incidence A variable incidence
