Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


of postpartum thyroid disease and established the nature of the condition to be related to the immune rebound phenomenon (see above). Several reviews are available (396-399). Incidence A variable incidence (from 3-17%) has been reported worldwide because of wide variations in the number of women studied, the frequency of thyroid assessment postpartum, diagnostic criteria employed and differences in hormone assay methodology. However there is a general consensus that the disease occurs in 5-9% of unselected postpartum women. Women with Type 1 diabetes have a three-fold incidence of PPT compared to non-diabetics. In these cases there is a strong association with thyroid antibodies. PPT is also more likely to occur in women who has had a previous episode. Clinical Spectrum PPTD is a destructive thyroiditis characterized by transient hyperthyroidism (median time of onset 13 weeks) and/or hypothyroidism (median time of onset 19 weeks) which may occur up to 9 months following delivery (400). The distribution of clinical presentation is approximately 19% hyperthyroid alone, 49% hypothyroid alone and the remaining 32% hyper followed by hypothyroidism. Although the clinical manifestations of the hyperthyroid state are not usually severe in PPT, lack of energy and irritability are particularly prominent even in antibody +ve women who do not develop thyroid dysfunction. In contrast the symptomatology of the hypothyroid phase may be profound. Raised levels of circulating thyroid peroxidase autoantibody (TPOAb) are detected in 10% of pregnant women at 16 weeks Of these, 50% develop PPTD during the first six months of the postpartum period (401) Permanent hypothyroidism is reported in as many as 30% of these cases after 3 years, and in 50 % at 7 - 10 years .An association with depression has been observed with PPTD (402); depression is also associated with thyroid antibody positive women irrespective of thyroid status (403,404). However, a study in an Australian population found no association between PPTD or thyroid antibody status with depression (405). TPOAb positivity has also been associated with dysphoric mood during and after pregnancy (406). Diagnosis Hyperthyroidism in the postpartum period may be due to a recurrence or the development of new Graves' disease or to the hyperthyroid phase of postpartum thyroiditis. Symptoms of hyperthyroidism are much more evident in Graves' disease .As postpartum hyperthyroidism is a destructive process radioiodine uptake will be very low at early and late times after isotope administration. TSH receptor antibodies are not seen unless there is coexisting Graves'
