Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


to the hypothyroid period and treatment with L-Thyroxine should be given starting with 0.1mg per day increasing as necessary. At this stage it will not be clear whether the patient has developed transient or permanent hypothyroidism. In this instance it is reasonable to treat with thyroxine for one year and then review the patient to determine the thyroxine requirement. This will normally mean that the patient should stop the therapy for 4-6 weeks and then have a thyroid function test. Patients who have been known to have transient thyroid dysfunction postpartum should be checked at least annually as 50% of them will develop hypothyroidism after 7 years. This is in contrast to TPOAb +ve women who have not experienced any thyroid dysfunction postpartum whose rate of hypothyroidism at 7 years follow up is only 5%. Clearly these patients require less intensive surveillance. Follow Up and Course of the Syndrome While the hyperthyroidism of PPT always resolves several long term studies of the hypothyroid phase have documented persistence of hypothyroidism in 20-30% of cases (397). Follow-up assessment of antiTPO positive women (at 16 weeks gestation) 9 years later has shown that the rate of development of hypothyroidism was significantly greater (48% vs 8% ) in those who had had PPT compared to those who were euthyroid antibody positive (408).. Recurrence of transient PPT has been observed by several workers and there is a 70% chance of developing recurrent PPT after a first attack and a 25% risk even if the woman was only anti- TPO positive without thyroid dysfunction during the first postpartum period. The Etiology and Nature of PPT Factors which predispose towards the development of PPT include the presence of thyroid antibodies (usually TPO but occasionally Tg), a previous episode, type 1 diabetes mellitus and a positive family history of thyroid disease. There is no influence of breast feeding, cigarette smoking, parity or baby gender on the development of PPT. PPT is usually only seen in women who were known to have positive TPO antibodies as determined at 16 weeks gestation although other groups have described the condition in women without thyroid antibodies and with no discernible immune abnormality (401). The destructive nature of the thyroiditis has been noted above. There is no evidence that ambient iodine concentrations affect the incidence of the disease and iodine administration to marginally iodine deficient pregnant women will not prevent the onset of
