Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


above. There is no evidence that ambient iodine concentrations affect the incidence of the disease and iodine administration to marginally iodine deficient pregnant women will not prevent the onset of PPTD. PPTD is an organ specific syndrome which has been regarded as a model of aggravation of the autoimmune state. Abnormal thyroid morphology has been shown by multifocal echogenicity and lymphocytic infiltration and follicles suggestive of Hashimoto’s disease in thyroid biopsies. .The rapid perturbation of the immune system in the post partum year contrasts with the relatively stable situation seen in chronic Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Although the antibody response is dramatic,its precise role in the immunopathogenesis of the condition remains to be determined. Probably, the antibody titre is merely a marker of disease and the immunological damage is mediated by lymphocyte and complement associated mechanisms. A prospective study of lymphocyte sub populations in anti TPO +ve pregnant women and antibody negative controls showed a significant fall in the CD4+/CD8+ ratio in late pregnancy and into the postpartum period in the controls (409). In contrast, women who subsequently developed PPT had a significantly higher CD4+/CD8+ ratio and T cell activation than in normal TPO-ve women. In addition, a particular lymphocyte subset ( CD45RA+ T cells), was also significantly elevated in those women destined to develop PPT and it is possible that this subset serves as a marker in this respect. It has also been suggested that the immunological determinants of postpartum thyroid dysfunction may in part occur antenatally (410). HLA haplotype restriction of the type commonly seen in autoimmune thyroid disease is seen in PPT. Quantitative examination of complement C3b in PPT patients has shown that, not only is there activation of the complement system by thyroid directed autoantibodies, but that complement activation is related to the extent of the thyroiditis and correlates with the severity of the thyroid dysfunction . Finally an exciting development has been reported by Negro et al who showed that the administration of selenium (as sodium selenite ) to TPOAb positive women through gestation led to a reduction in the postpartum TPOAb rise and also a significant reduction in postpartum hypothyroidism (411). These data still require confirmation. SCREENING FOR THYROID DISEASE IN PREGNANCY Screening for Disease Medical screening is the systematic application of a test or inquiry to identify individuals at sufficient risk of a specific disorder to benefit from further investigation or direct preventive action (412).
