Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


screening is the systematic application of a test or inquiry to identify individuals at sufficient risk of a specific disorder to benefit from further investigation or direct preventive action (412). The requirements for a justifiable screening test are shown in table 14-11. Table 14-11 Justification for Screening Test (adapted from 412) Well defined disorder with known incidence/prevalence Medically important disorder Screening test simple and safe with established cut off values Effective treatment available Cost of test relative to benefit should be known Adequate logistics for the testing and follow up Patient and management acceptability It will be apparent that screening a population must be considered very carefully in respect of the condition being screened for, the effectiveness (and safety) of any intervention and the potential anxiety of the patient. If the effectiveness is not known with certainty then evidence should be sought, usually in the form of a randomised trial. The criteria listed in table 1 will now be discussed. Some data relevant to the debate has been mentioned in this chapter. Does Thyroid Screening in Pregnancy Meet the Above Criteria for Screening? The prevalence of Graves’ disease is approximately 3.0/1000 with an incidence of about 0.5/1000/year. The prevalence and incidence in women during child bearing years is not known but thyrotoxicosis is said to occur in 2 /1000 pregnancies and Graves’ disease would be expected to account for at least 80% of these cases. While these figures are low, Graves’ hyperthyroidism can have a dramatic effect on the mother as well as the fetus. There are significant maternal, fetal and neonatal complications (see section on Graves’ disease). Subclinical hyperthyroidism (i.e. normal circulating concentrations of T4 and T3 but subnormal TSH levels) occurs in approximately 1.7% of pregnant women and is not associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes (413). Screening for this condition is clearly not warranted, although if a low TSH is found the establishment of the cause will improve obstetric outcome in a number of women (414) In contrast to hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism is quite common in pregnancy . The incidence of subclinical hypothyroidism (raised TSH and normal or low normal T4) is at least 2.5% and these women have no clinical features and are often asymptomatic, but 50–60% will have evidence of autoimmune thyroid disease (positive TPOAbs and or thyroglobulin antibodies, TgAbs) in iodine-sufficient areas. It should be noted however that endemic iodine deficiency is the most common cause
