Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


have evidence of autoimmune thyroid disease (positive TPOAbs and or thyroglobulin antibodies, TgAbs) in iodine-sufficient areas. It should be noted however that endemic iodine deficiency is the most common cause of hypothyroidism seen in pregnant women worldwide. Overt hypothyroidism occurs in only about 5% of all women who have a high TSH. During the last decade, it has become apparent that untreated maternal hypothyroidism and subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy is associated with adverse fetal and obstetric outcomes discussed in this chapter. There is a greater prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism in women with delivery before 32 weeks and there is even an association between thyroid autoimmunity and adverse obstetric outcome, which is independent of thyroid function.(5). Higher maternal TSH levels even within the normal reference range are associated with an increased risk of miscarriages, fetal and neonatal distress (154) as well as preterm delivery.(18) In a prospective study, euthyroid TPOAb+ve women who received interventional L-thyroxine in early pregnancy had a reduced miscarriage rate and less preterm delivery.(203). Further prospective randomised trials are required to confirm these interesting data. Of equal or even greater importance than the above is the detrimental effect of hypothyroidism during pregnancy on fetal brain development. The neurodevelopmental impairment is similar to that seen in iodine deficient areas and implies that iodine status should be normalised in regions of deficiency. However, much of the USA is not iodine deficient which raises the question of routine screening of thyroid function during early pregnancy or even at preconception. In contrast gestational iodine deficiency in Europe is not uncommon (415) and decrements in mentation can be seen in iodine deficient areas as well as iodine sufficient ones. It should be noted however that the only randomized prospective trial adequately powered to answer the question as to whether thyroxine therapy to hypothyroid or hypothyroxinemic mothers resulted in benefit to the IQ of their children was negative (276). While there may be reasons for this result, further high quality evidence based studies must be performed to assess the situation such as the one in abstract (277). As discussed in this chapter, isolated hypothyroxinaemia (IH) (low FT4 and normal TSH) either due to iodine deficiency or autoimmune thyroid disease has been shown to result in lower IQ in infants and young children in retrospective and prospective studies. IH Although it has been found to be associated with adverse perinatal outcomes (227) and is associated
