Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


in lower IQ in infants and young children in retrospective and prospective studies. IH Although it has been found to be associated with adverse perinatal outcomes (227) and is associated with reduced motor and intelligence performance in neonates (416) and in children aged 25–30 months in a Chinese population (255). While treatment of overt hypothyroidism has been shown to prevent the obstetric and neonatal complications the evidence for treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism in prevention is less secure. However a recent screening study where women were characterised as high risk or low risk in terms of the chance of adverse obstetric outcome there was a significant reduction in these outcomes even in low risk women who were screened for subclinical hypothyroidism (417). Evidence for Intervention in High Risk Clinical Situations The strength of evidence relating maternal hypothyroidism to low IQ in children suggests strongly that screening thyroid function in early gestation with l-thyroxine intervention in appropriate women would be beneficial. In addition there is evidence that such a strategy would be cost-effective. A study by Thung et al (418) compared the cost effectiveness of no screening versus routine screening for subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy.. The decision model demonstrated a saving of approximately $8.3 million per 100,000 women screened with an increment of 589.3 quality adjusted life years. Similar results were obtained by Dosiu et al (419) using a different screening model. The lack of sufficient class A evidence has added to the controversy. Recent studies of targeted screening have concluded that targeted screening is unsatisfactory and that the data support the case for universal screening although more studies are required (420-422). The recommendation for universal screening has been made for pregnant women in Egypt (423), and pregnant women in China (424,425). An Asian survey found variable practice in relation to screening (426). Meanwhile other workers have recommended against screening (427,428). A recent opinion stated that testing maternal TSH as part of first trimester screening does not predict adverse pregnancy outcomes because mainly mild abnormalities in thyroid function are detected (429,430). Several organisations have issued guidelines on whether to adopt a screening strategy for thyroid function in early pregnancy (11-15), the latest being the revised version of The American Thyroid Association guidelines (13). Generally, because of the lack of class A evidence (randomized controlled trial data) the recommendations from these guidelines) do not endorse universal screening. Instead, a targeted approach was suggested
