Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


(13). Generally, because of the lack of class A evidence (randomized controlled trial data) the recommendations from these guidelines) do not endorse universal screening. Instead, a targeted approach was suggested in specific clinical situations, although as noted below, this approach has limitations. The published Endocrine society of America guidelines (14) included a split recommendation, some members favoring universal screening, and others favoring targeted screening.A comparison of the 2 sets of recommendations is shown in table 14-12. Table 14-12 Recommended patient profiles for targeted thyroid disease case finding in women seeking pregnancy, or newly pregnant: ATA guidelines History of thyroid dysfunction or prior thyroid surgery Age >30 years Symptoms of thyroid dysfunction or the presence of goiter TPOAb positivity Type 1 diabetes or other autoimmune disorders History of miscarriage or preterm delivery History of head or neck radiation Family history of thyroid dysfunction Morbid obesity (BMI ≥40 kg/m2) Use of amiodarone or lithium, or recent administration of iodinated radiologic contrast Infertility Residing in an area of known moderate to severe iodine insufficiency Endocrine Society Guidelines Women over age 30 years ( ? Valid see 310a) family history of autoimmune thyroid disease or hypothyroidism goiter thyroid antibodies, primarily thyroid peroxidase antibodies symptoms or clinical signs suggestive of thyroid hypofunction type 1 diabetes mellitus, or other autoimmune disorders infertility prior history of preterm delivery prior therapeutic head or neck irradiation or prior thyroid surgery currently receiving levothyroxine replacement A comparison between the first ATA guidelines (12) and those of The Endocrine Society (14) concluded that the data available at that time are neither for or against universal screening (431). Althoughtargeted screening might seem a reasonable approach in relation to economic and logistic factors, there has been accruing evidence that a substantial number of women with thyroid dysfunction would not be diagnosed in these circumstances. Vaidya (432) found that targeted testing of a previously defined high risk group who had a personal history of thyroid or other autoimmune disorders or a family history of thyroid disease (413 women) failed to detect 28% of pregnant women with a TSH>4.2mIU/L. Li et al (255) found that this strategy missed 36% of women with TSH>4.0mIU/L. Overall , targeted screening may miss 33-88% of women with a thyroid abnormality (420,423,424,432-435, ). For example, screening ‘low risk women’ identified 28% with thyroid dysfunction excluding those with just positive thyroid antibodies (420). The variability seen in these data may relate
