Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


abnormality (420,423,424,432-435, ). For example, screening ‘low risk women’ identified 28% with thyroid dysfunction excluding those with just positive thyroid antibodies (420). The variability seen in these data may relate to different definitions of thyroid dysfunction and different ethnicity of the populations studied. A meta analysis performed by obstetricians in The Netherlands concluded that he overall lack of evidence precludes a recommendation for universal screening and is only justified in a research setting (162). Despite a lack of consensus among professional organisation many areas of the world are in fact performing routine screening (436-438).In the USA 74% of respondents at an ATA meeting advocated universal thyroid screening with TSH (439). To date there is an ongoing disussion relating to the evidence that levothyroxine treatment of pregnant women with subclinical hypothyroidism, isolated hypothyroxinemia, or thyroid autoimmunity is beneficial (439,,13,15). Therefore, there is ongoing debate regarding the need for universal screening for thyroid dysfunction during pregnancy . Efforts are still required to provide more high quality evidence to justify screening. There is some evidence that screening (with thyroxine intervention therapy) may at least prevent or reduce some obstetric complications associated with SCH in pregnancy (440,441). Meanwhile, optimal cooperation and communication between endocrinologists and obstetricians is also necessary. Conclusion The screening criteria for subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy are largely met. The condition is not rare and several retrospective studies imply adverse obstetric and child neurodevelopmental outcomes. However there are few prospective randomized trials to substantiate the benefit of screening and the CATS study did not show a benefit in child IQ at age 3 years (276). Nevertheless there seems to be a case for screening to prevent adverse obstetric outcomes. From the child cognitive function aspect there should be further studies where intervention is initiated early in the first trimester during the course of brain development. Unfortunately the recent NIH study reported in abstract indicated that recruitment of mothers was at least midway in the second trimester (277) From the forgoing discussion this author believes that the lack of high quality clinical epidemiological evidence base probably does not justify universal screening at the present time. Other authors note that the data on the beneficial effects of treatment for subclinical hypothyroidism remain uncertain, but that the other established benefits justify universal screening at this time. However, it is likely that more evidence will be produced which may alter this view in the future. Other
