Thyroid Regulation and Dysfunction in the Pregnant Patient
KEYWORDS: thyroid, pregnancy, women, iodine, tsh, serum, hypothyroidism, disease, fetal, hyperthyroidism, maternal, pregnant, gestation, levels, trimester


natural history of Graves' disease is altered during pregnancy, with a tendency for exacerbation in 1st trimester, amelioration during 2nd & 3rd trimesters, and typically a rebound during the postpartum period. These changes are the consequences of partial immune suppression during gestation with a rebound during the postpartum period. This must be kept in mind when treating thyrotoxic patients, since all ATD cross the placenta and may affect fetal thyroid function. PTU is now recommended only for 1 st trimester and MMI for the rest of pregnancy. Fetal and neonatal hyperthyroidism is due to the transplacental transfer of maternal stimulating TSH-receptor antibodies (TRAb). The diagnosis of fetal (and neonatal) hyperthyroidism is usually made on the basis of fetal tachycardia, accelerated bone age, and intrauterine growth retardation. It may occur in infants born to women with active Graves' disease, but also to women who have had prior definitive cure of their disease by surgery or radioactive iodine, but maintain high titers of TRAb. The proper management of pregnant patients with Graves' disease remains a difficult challenge in clinical endocrinology. Thyroid nodules discovered during pregnancy should be aspirated for cytological diagnosis. If a malignancy is diagnosed, surgery should be performed during pregnancy or shortly thereafter. Pregnancy by itself usually does not adversely affect the natural history of differentiated thyroid carcinoma. During the postpartum period, particular attention should be given to women with thyroid autoimmunity, since hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism are frequently exacerbated in the months following the delivery. Antenatal screening for thyroid dysfunction is being actively discussed by the thyroid community. At present evidence based studies are very limited and do not support this strategy. However many clinics worldwide are currently screening. Dialogue between endocrinologist and obstetrician is important in this regard The results of further randomized trials are awaited. REFERENCES 1 Glinoer D. The regulation of thyroid function in pregnancy: pathways of endocrine adaptation from physiology to pathology. Endocr Rev 1997;18: 404-33 2 KrassasGE, PoppeK, GlinoerD Thyroid function and human reproductive health. Endocr Rev 2010;31:702-55 3 Weetman AP. Immunity, thyroid function and pregnancy: molecular mechanisms Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2010;6: 311-18. 4 Lazarus JH, Soldin O, Evans C. Assessing thyroid function in pregnancy. In: Brent G, ed. Thyroid Function Testing. New York : Springer, 2010: 209-33 5 John H. Lazarus Thyroid function in pregnancy British Medical Bulletin 2011; 97:137-48 6 Spencer L, Bubner T, Bain E, Middleton P Screening and subsequent management for
