Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


31–1 CHAPTER 31 ORAL HEALTH AND DIABETES Wenche S. Borgnakke, DDS, MPH, PhD, Robert J. Genco, DDS, PhD, Paul I. Eke, MS, PhD, MPH, PhD, and George W. Taylor, DMD, MPH, DrPH Dr. Wenche S. Borgnakke is Senior Research Associate in the Department of Periodontics and Oral Medicine, School of Dentistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. Dr. Robert J. Genco is Distinguished Professor of Oral Biology, Microbiology and Immunology, and Director, UB Center for Microbiome Research, State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY. Dr. Paul I. Eke is Senior Health Scientist, Office of the Director, Division of Population Health, National Center for Chronic Disease and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA. Dr. George W. Taylor is Professor in the Department of Preventive and Restorative Dental Sciences, Division of Oral Epidemiology and Dental Public Health, and Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion at the School of Dentistry, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA. SUMMARY The vast majority of the U.S. adult population suffers from periodontal diseases, as about 90% suffer from the reversible form, gingivitis, whereas almost 50% of adults age ≥30 years are affected by periodontitis, which is the chronic periodontal breakdown of both soft and hard tissues that support the teeth. Diabetes prevalence is assuming epidemic proportions with 30.2 million or 12.2% of the U.S. adult population age ≥18 years having diabetes in 2015, of whom about one-quarter are unaware of their diabetes; an additional one-third (84.1 million) have prediabetes, of whom about 90% are unaware. Due to the great prevalence of both diseases, it is important for health care professionals and lay people alike to be aware of both periodontal diseases and diabetes and their two-way interactions in which they mutually and adversely affect each other to understand how to prevent, treat, and manage both diseases. Since periodontitis and diabetes share the same risk factors, any improvement in a risk factor should beneficially affect both conditions. This concept is shown by a decrease in the level of inflammation upon nonsurgical periodontal treatment, which improves both periodontal health in individuals with type 2 diabetes and those without diabetes, as well as glycemic control in type 2 diabetes and in people with prediabetes. Gingivitis is a reversible inflammation of the soft tissues surrounding the teeth in response to dental plaque, whereas periodontitis is a chronic, inflammatory disease that in response to
