Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


with prediabetes. Gingivitis is a reversible inflammation of the soft tissues surrounding the teeth in response to dental plaque, whereas periodontitis is a chronic, inflammatory disease that in response to dental plaque causes breakdown of the soft and hard tissues surrounding the teeth in susceptible individuals. This destruction often occurs without any pain or other symptoms. Nonetheless, if left untreated, it can lead to loosening of the tooth and eventually to its total loss, with adverse effects on nutrition, self-esteem, and function. Moreover, the number of teeth lost is strongly associated with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, and advanced tooth loss, especially edentulism (loss of all teeth), is associated with premature all-cause mortality. Periodontitis causes local and systemic inflammatory responses that lead to development or worsening of hyperglycemia and hence contribute to increased blood glucose levels in healthy individuals; development of prediabetes, type 2 diabetes, and gestational diabetes; decreased glycemic control in overt diabetes; and worsening of diabetes complications. Diabetes is also a chronic, inflammation-related metabolic disease diagnosed by hyperglycemia. Such elevated blood glucose levels negatively impact the inflammatory response to dental plaque, leading to more severe gingivitis and periodontitis. Hence, periodontitis and diabetes mutually and adversely affect each other. Importantly, the risk factors are largely identical for these two diseases, so when identifying and improving risk factors related to one of the two diseases, the other could be present and its severity lessened. Such improvements could consist of quitting smoking, decreasing intake of added sugar, reducing any inflammation, and getting sufficient sleep at healthy times per the circadian rhythm. Routine, nonsurgical, periodontal treatment (“deep cleaning”) that can be performed by dental health care professionals in general dental practice or in periodontists’ specialty offices—together with proper home oral hygiene care—can lead to improved glycemic control in type 2 diabetes. Hyperglycemia can also contribute to impaired healing of lesions around the apex (tip) of the teeth with chronic infection and inflamma­ tion persisting in the jaw bone. Extraction of teeth that suffer from chronic periodontitis or periapical periodontitis leads to decreased levels of inflammatory biomarkers. Moreover, diabetes and the use of diabetes medication can lead to dry mouth, which contributes to development of caries, periodontitis, and thrush (candidiasis). Diabetic neuropathy can lead to burning mouth syndrome (glossodynia) and taste impairment (dysgeusia) and may be involved in trigeminal nerve pain and temporomandibular joint disorders. Both periodon­ titis and diabetes lead to potentially severely diminished
