Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


burning mouth syndrome (glossodynia) and taste impairment (dysgeusia) and may be involved in trigeminal nerve pain and temporomandibular joint disorders. Both periodon­ titis and diabetes lead to potentially severely diminished quality of life. Nonetheless, people with diabetes have fewer dental visits than their peers without diabetes. Received in final form January 25, 2018. 31–2 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition It is important for both dental and medical care providers to keep in mind the possible coexistence of periodontitis and dysglycemia (hyperglycemia), as both diseases negatively affect each other. Proper, mutual referral is essential, as both diseases can be improved, if the informed providers collaborate in a patient-centered, interprofessional team approach in the interest of the best possible oral and systemic health for their mutual patients. Therefore, it may make both medical and financial sense to include the attainment of a healthy mouth in diabetes management, as well as screening for diabetes in the dental office, with the potential for substantial decreases in the burden of both human disease and suffering, as well as financial costs, to the benefit of the individuals, their caregivers, and society overall. INTRODUCTION The purpose of this chapter is to present scientific evidence for the links between oral health and diabetes in the United States and, thereby, attract attention to the importance of these relationships and ultimately incorporate such knowledge into the practice of both dentistry and medicine. This goal is accomplished by first introducing periodontal diseases and presenting scientific evidence for the two-way associations between these diseases and diabetes/hyperglycemia, including: (a) the effect of periodontitis on glycemic control in people with and without diabetes and diabetes compli­ cations; (b) the effect of nonsurgical periodontal treatment on glycemic control in prediabetes or diabetes; (c) the effect of diabetes/hyperglycemia on periodontal health; and (d) underlying mechanisms. Second, the chapter presents evidence regarding the effect of diabetes/hyper­ glycemia on other oral diseases and conditions, including: (a) tooth loss and root fragments; (b) tooth eruption; (c) caries; (d) dry mouth; (e) candidiasis (thrush); (f) burning mouth syndrome; and other oral conditions. Finally, asso­ ciations between dental care utilization, medical care utilization, and medical care costs in people with diabetes who have received periodontal therapy; the need for interprofessional, patient-centered collab­ oration in diabetes management; and the public health significance of the oral health-diabetes links are discussed. A major focus of this chapter is periodon­ titis, because it is the
