Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


collab­ oration in diabetes management; and the public health significance of the oral health-diabetes links are discussed. A major focus of this chapter is periodon­ titis, because it is the oral disease that is most prevalent, potentially fatal, and also most closely related to diabetes in a mutually adverse (two-way, bidirectional) manner. Diabetes, especially poorly controlled diabetes, has long been consid­ ered a risk factor for periodontitis (1,2,3). In 1993, periodontitis was declared the likely sixth complication of diabetes by Harald Löe, then Director of the federal National Institute of Dental Research (4), but not until about two decades later has the medical community begun to take notice. Only since the latter half of the 1990s has scientific evidence emerged to support periodontal infection as a risk factor for higher blood glucose levels, poorer glycemic control, and certain diabetes complications and, hence, adversely affecting diabetes outcomes; that is, an effect in the opposite direction (5). Consequently, the effects are mutual and result in a two-way relationship between periodontitis and diabetes (6,7,8). Evidence from U.S. studies is described and briefly supplemented by evidence from studies conducted in other coun­ tries when U.S.-derived evidence is sparse or absent. Illustrations that do not cite any previ­ ously published source show results from original analyses of data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2009– 2010 and 2011–2012 cycles conducted specifically for Diabetes in America, 3rd edition. Only dentate participants who were age ≥30 years were eligible for the NHANES oral examination. Hence, data from the edentulous (edentate, no natural teeth) and those who due to medical contraindications (e.g., pregnant women) or for other reasons did not participate in the periodontal probing examination were not included. SOURCE AND LIMITATIONS OF DATA ON DIABETES AND ORAL HEALTH National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys 2009–2012 NHANES 2009–2012 data allow for analysis of relationships between diabetes status and several oral diseases and conditions, including periodontitis, tooth loss, and presence of retained root fragments. NHANES uses independent, known probability samples that produce nationally representative estimates for the civilian noninstitutionalized U.S. population. The survey is conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United States. Each year, the NHANES examines a nationally repre­ sentative sample of about 5,000 persons living in 15 counties across the
