Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


buccal side (facing the face or cheeks, not the tongue or roof of the mouth) of the teeth in half of the upper and half of the lower jaw. Therefore, substantial numbers of participants have been misclassified due to disease missed. In fact, the analyses of NHANES data collected prior to the 2009–2010 cycle underestimated the true prevalence of periodontitis in the U.S. population by up to 54% (10). The reason that any disease recorded in only part of the mouth cannot reliably be multiplied by any factor to represent the entire mouth is that periodontal breakdown does not follow any symmetric pattern in a denti­ tion (the full complement of teeth in an individual). Periodontal breakdown occurs at specific, individual sites, with much variation among the teeth in a person and even among different sites around the same tooth. Limitations are: 1) the cross-sectional survey design limits the ability to make causal inferences; 2) the NHANES data do not permit distinction between the various types of diabetes; because type 2 is the most common, results are often interpreted as pertaining largely to type 2 diabetes, but should probably be ascribed to hyperglycemia; 3) periodontal examina­ tions were limited to adults age ≥30 years; 4) the lack of scoring gingival bleeding on periodontal probing (BOP) prevents the assessment of gingivitis, the reversible gingival inflammation; 5) mucosal lesions were not recorded; 6) salivary function was not assessed; and 7) examination of dental caries experience, which includes both active caries and restored (filled, crowned) caries lesions, was limited to participants age 3–19 years and, hence, was not conducted in the population in whom periodontitis measures were performed. Nonetheless, the presence of root fragments of each permanent tooth was recorded in participants age ≥30 years. Such remaining root fragment usually indicates gross caries (large cavi­ ties) with near complete breakdown of the crown of the tooth, namely the part that is covered by tooth enamel and is visible above the gum line, although it is not possible to know whether such breakdown was caused by severe caries on the crown or on the root. Trauma could potentially also be the cause in rare cases. PERIODONTITIS: INTRODUCTION MEASUREMENTS AND DEFINITIONS Periodontal disease, referred to as “gum disease” or “pyorrhea,” is an inflammation of the soft or hard tissues surrounding the teeth that is initiated by the bacteria in the dental plaque located on the
