Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


as “gum disease” or “pyorrhea,” is an inflammation of the soft or hard tissues surrounding the teeth that is initiated by the bacteria in the dental plaque located on the teeth near the gum line and promoted by the host immune system. Periodontal diseases comprise various forms. Gingivitis is the reversible form characterized by swollen, reddened, and possibly bleeding gums, affecting only the soft tissue around the tooth. Gingivitis is an inflammatory reaction caused by bacterial biofilm, dental plaque, that accumulates on teeth adjacent to the gums (gingiva) (11,12). Chronic periodontitis is a more severe form that irreversibly affects both soft tissue and bone support around the tooth in especially susceptible people and is a major cause of tooth loss in adults (11,12). This condition is usually referred to simply as “periodontitis.” Chronic periodontitis is a disease that needs potentially lifelong monitoring and management, similar to diabetes. Figure 31.1 illustrates the various forms of periodontal health and diseases (13). Dental plaque is mainly an adherent biofilm of microbes and (food) debris attached to the tooth surface and to the rough surface of any calculus (calcified plaque, tartar) located above and beneath the gum line. Plaque accumulates with poor oral hygiene and causes gingivitis (11,12,14). Such plaque build-up often occurs even in people who brush their teeth, but do so incorrectly, for instance by using a toothbrush with stiff, thick, or frayed bristles or by a technique that sweeps over the groove between the tooth and the gum line and hence does not succeed in removing the plaque. In susceptible individuals, untreated gingi­ vitis may progress to chronic periodontitis due to the host’s immune-inflammatory response to the persisting biofilm (11,12,14). A third form of periodontal disease, periapical periodontitis, affects the jaw bone around the opposite end of the tooth, namely the tip of the root (apex), and is visible only on radiographs. This condi­ tion is described separately in this chapter. Chronic periodontitis cases can be assessed by a variety of measures. 31–4 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Measures of the clinical presentation are illustrated in Appendix 31.1 (15) and include: (a) periodontal probing depth (PPD); (b) clinical attachment loss (CAL); (c) redness and puffiness as a sign of inflammation; (d) spontaneous bleeding from the gingiva; (e) BOP; or (f) bleeding during tooth brushing. Radiographic assessment of bone loss is also used in patient care and research, and additional research measures
