Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


respectively (33). This study provided evidence that chronic periodontitis was positively associated in a dose-response manner with increased prevalence of IFG and diabetes in a repre­ sentative sample of U.S. adults. A similar cross-sectional study inves­ tigating the relationship between periodontitis (designated as exposure) and insulin resistance (designated as outcome) analyzed data from 3,616 diabetes-free participants age 20–85 years in the continuous NHANES 1999–2004 (34), while considering whether systemic inflammation either mediated or modi­ fied this association. Periodontitis was specified using quartiles and continuous measures of mean PPD and CAL, as well as by the original 2007 CDC/AAP periodontitis case definitions (19). The homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) (35) was used to create the outcome variable of insulin resistance using a dichotomous variable with the 75th percentile of HOMA-IR (HOMA-IR ≥75th percentile) as the cutpoint. Systemic inflammation was classified by quartiles of white blood cell (WBC) count and C-reactive protein (CRP) (36). The adjusted logistic regres­ sion analyses identified an association between periodontitis assessed by PPD and increased risk for insulin resistance: for each 1 mm increase in mean PPD, the risk of HOMA-IR ≥75th percentile increased by 24% (risk ratio [RR] 1.24, 95% CI 1.03–1.48), whereas the mean CAL was not associated with greater risk for insulin resistance when controlling for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education level, smoking status, physical activity level, total energy intake, BMI, poverty income ratio, systolic blood pressure, total cholesterol-to-high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol ratio, triglycerides, WBC, and high-sensitivity CRP. Moreover, 6% of the total association between mean PPD and HOMA-IR ≥75th percentile was found to be mediated by WBC. There was an interaction with systemic inflammation (effect modification) as mean PPD was not related to insulin resistance for individuals with WBC ≤6.4x109; however, the fourth quartile of mean PPD was associated with insulin resistance among partici­ pants with WBC >7.9x109 (RR 2.6, 95% CI 1.36–4.97). Among participants with CRP >3.0 mg/L, the findings were similar. While the cross-sectional design of this study precludes drawing the causal inference that periodontitis contributes to the devel­ opment of insulin resistance, these results support the biologic plausibility of such a causal relationship and suggest a syner­ gistic interaction between periodontitis and systemic inflammation (34). A third NHANES study investigated the relationship between periodontal infection (designated as exposure) and prediabetes (IFG and impaired glucose tolerance [IGT], designated as outcomes) by analyzing data from the continuous NHANES 2009–2010 (37)
