Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


is that it is unethical not to treat persons with diagnosed periodontitis for more than about 6–9 months because effective treatment is known. Of the seven mostly small RCTs conducted in the United States, four found no significant improvement in A1c (62,63,65,67), while three demonstrated significant improve­ ment in A1c levels (61,64,66). The largest U.S. multicenter RCT (62,68) that was included in four of the meta-analyses (49,50,51,54) was halted early due to futility. However, this $18 million RCT received considerable criti­ cism (69,70,71,72,73). The major areas of criticism included: baseline levels of A1c for participants already being close to the goal for good glycemic control, thus limiting the chance for the effect of periodontal treatment to significantly lower A1c; conclusions that could be drawn being limited because periodontal treatment failed to reach a successful therapeutic endpoint as per standard practice and which was demonstrated to be clinically achievable in prior studies; and the high prevalence of obesity that could have masked any anti-inflammatory effect of even successful periodontal therapy (69). Notably, at the end of this intervention study, 72.1% of all the sites had plaque (causing inflammation), 41.6% of the sites bled upon probing (sign of inflammation), and 30.7% of the partici­ pants had diseased PPD of ≥4 mm (69). 31–14 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition Consequently, it is unknown whether successful periodontal therapy leading to acceptable periodontal health would have had an effect on A1c level. Nonetheless, the authors reported there was no signif­ icant improvement in A1c level following nonsurgical periodontal therapy. A large, prospective cohort study of data from 126,805 people with type 2 diabetes who received periodontal treatment during 2005–2012 at all medical facili­ ties in the U.S. Veterans Administration concluded that such care improved A1c (74). Periodontal treatment increased the likelihood of reaching the A1c <7% or <9% targets, and the effect of treatment at follow-up was greatest, namely 0.25% in absolute A1c reduction, among patients with an initial A1c >9% (74). In conclusion, based on the body of evidence, it is prudent to recognize a potentially beneficial role for nonsurgical periodontal therapy contributing to improved glycemic control in people with diabetes, although future, solid evidence from large randomized trials remains warranted. Adjuvant Antibiotics/Antimicrobials There is much debate regarding whether to supplement mechanical, nonsurgical periodontal treatment (“deep cleaning”) with antibiotics/antimicrobials delivered locally or systemically, especially with the current attention to the urgent need for severely
