Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


is much debate regarding whether to supplement mechanical, nonsurgical periodontal treatment (“deep cleaning”) with antibiotics/antimicrobials delivered locally or systemically, especially with the current attention to the urgent need for severely restricting the use of antibiotics. Based on 13 eligible studies, a 2016 systematic review of such treatment in type 2 diabetes concluded that systemic adjuvant antimicrobials did not enhance the outcome for most periodontitis measures (75). Only the PPD benefitted statistically significantly, but the mean difference of 0.15 mm reduc­ tion favoring those receiving antibiotics compared to those who did not seemed clinically insignificant. However, another systematic review and meta-analysis of six RCTs concluded that both PPD and CAL improved more with application of local antimicrobials, especially in deep periodontal pockets in patients with well-controlled types 1 and 2 diabetes (76). Effect of Nonsurgical Periodontal Therapy on Inflammatory Markers in Type 2 Diabetes Importantly, the level of systemic inflam­ matory biomarkers decreases upon nonsurgical periodontal treatment in people with type 2 diabetes and periodon­ titis (77,78). The importance of decreasing the general inflammatory response is described in the section on underlying mechanisms. DEVELOPMENT OF TYPE 2 DIABETES IN PERSONS WITH PERIODONTITIS U.S. Population-Based Studies National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys Three longitudinal (cohort) studies have investigated whether periodontitis at baseline is associated with the devel­ opment of new type 2 diabetes (27). Data were analyzed from 9,296 (7,168 dentate) persons age 25–74 years and initially diabetes-free who participated in the NHANES I and its Epidemiologic Follow-up Study (NHEFS) by completing a baseline dental examination (1971–1976) and having at least one follow-up eval­ uation between 1982 and 1992 (79). Diabetes on follow-up was ascertained by a self-reported physician diagnosis requiring pharmacological treatment; a discharge diagnosis of diabetes from a health care facility stay; or death certif­ icate. Periodontitis status was specified in six categories for dentate participants using the Periodontal Index, with the referent group specified as periodontally healthy and the remaining five categories designated as quintiles of increasing periodontitis severity. A seventh group consisted of the 2,128 edentulous participants. After a mean follow-up of 17 (range 1–22) years, the adjusted odds ratios for incident diabetes in the two quintiles of less severe periodontitis were similar to the referent group. The remaining three quintiles of increasingly greater periodontitis severity experienced about twice the risk of incident diabetes, with an odds ratio of 2.26 (95% CI 1.56–3.27) in the third most severe
