Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


conducted in Louisiana (83) were followed for 22 months postpartum. Women with periodontitis showed greater insulin resistance and lower beta cell func­ tion compared to participants without periodontitis (84). Participants with both a history of gestational diabetes and current periodontitis had the most impaired glucose metabolism with the insulin secretion-sensitivity index being significantly lower compared to women with neither past gestational diabetes nor periodontitis, namely 208.20(SE: ±2.60) versus 742.93(SE: ±1.78) (p<0.05). Hence, periodontitis may contribute to impaired glucose metabolism and future risk of developing overt diabetes. In another U.S. study in 265 predom­ inantly Hispanic (83%) women in New York, high vaginal levels of the periodontal bacteria Tannerella forsythia were significantly associated (p=0.01) with gestational diabetes when comparing the 22 gestational diabetes cases (8.3%) to women without gesta­ tional diabetes (85). The prevalence of PPD ≥3 mm was greater in women with gestational diabetes (50.0%) than in women without gestational diabetes (37.3%), but this difference did not reach statistical significance (p=0.38). DIABETES COMPLICATIONS IN PERSONS WITH PERIODONTITIS People with types 1 or 2 diabetes who have periodontitis, especially severe periodontitis, or are edentulous have higher risk for diabetes-related complications than those with no/mild periodontitis (27,86). Several studies have reported a dose-response effect between severity of periodontitis and risk for diabetes complications. Cross-sectional Studies A 2015 review that applied systematic literature review searches identified a gap in the body of evidence from U.S. studies regarding links between oral health and diabetic neuropathy (87). Only two studies, conducted in India (88) and Iran (89), were identified and reported significant associations in type 2 diabetes between periodontitis and neuropathy (88) and retinopathy (89), respectively. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey III In the NHANES 1988–1994, participants with gingival bleeding upon periodontal probing at ≥5 sites had a significantly increased risk (OR 1.57, 95% CI 1.26–1.94) of also having retinal hemorrhaging; 51% of the association was explained by A1c level (90). This finding illustrates the association of each of the two diseases with blood glucose concentrations, the possibility that simultaneous presence of gingivitis and retinal hemorrhaging support the hypothesis of microvascular injury in hyperglycemia, and that even gingi­ vitis—in addition to more severe chronic periodontitis—can be a marker for such injury in elevated blood glucose levels. Using data from the same NHANES also demonstrated an association between periodontal disease and age-related macular degeneration among 8,208 adults age ≥40 years with retinal photo­ graphs (91).
