Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


cardiovascular complications (stroke, transient ischemic attacks, angina, myocardial infarct, and intermittent claudication) (99). Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses A major complication of diabetes is atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; and a meta-analysis that pooled 17 case-controls studies involving 3,456 myocardial infarction patients and 3,875 control subjects also reported a signifi- cant association with periodontitis (100). Compared to the control group, cases had a significant 2.5-fold higher risk for periodontitis (OR 2.53, 95% CI 1.93–3.32) and a fourfold higher risk for missing teeth (OR 4.12, 95% CI 2.01–6.23). In addition, two 2016 systematic reviews and meta-analyses concluded that periodontitis might be associated with a twofold to threefold greater risk for erectile dysfunction (101,102). However, the former was based on only four case-control studies involving 213,006 participants (OR 2.28, 95% CI 1.50–3.48) and the latter also on four studies, involving 38,111 cases and 174,807 controls (OR 3.07, 95% CI 1.87–5.05). Both reports call for future high-quality longitudinal studies. The under­ lying mechanism is thought to be mainly inflammatory reactions involved in chronic inflammation. PERIAPICAL PERIODONTITIS: EFFECT ON DIABETES A case report illustrates the need for diagnosing and treating infections, such as periapical periodontitis, as part of diabetes management: a diabetes patient suddenly experienced decreased insulin sensitivity and required increasing insulin doses over a period of 3 weeks of exacer­ bation of periapical infection. However, only 1 day after endodontic treatment (i.e., “root canal”) that stopped the outflow of infectious agents, the insulin demand dropped about 50% to the patient’s usual insulin dosage (103). In addition, a systematic review concluded that apical periodontitis is associated with elevated levels of systemic inflammation biomarkers, such as CRP, interleukins, IgA, and IgG, that are not confined to the local lesion (104). For example, a Finnish study found elevated serum levels of the subgingival bacterium Porphyromonas endodontalis and its corresponding serum IgG and lipopolysaccharides in patients undergoing angiography, especially in those with untreated endodontic lesions (105). PERI-IMPLANT DISEASES: EFFECT ON DIABETES Since dental implants have become more common only in this century, the literature does not yet provide any evidence regarding any effect on blood glucose levels or diabetes complications. Nonetheless, because the pathologic mechanisms are similar to those in periodontal diseases, it is likely that peri-implant diseases will cause systemic effects similar to periodontal diseases, including elevation of blood glucose levels due to the inflammation. DIABETES: EFFECT ON PERIODONTITIS Epidemiologic evidence of diabetes being adversely associated with periodontal health
