Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


2.5, 95% CI 1.2–5.3). DIABETES: EFFECT ON PERIAPICAL PERIODONTITIS Endodontic therapy (i.e., “root canal” treatment) cleans the root canal by removing soft tissue from inside the tooth (the “nerve”) and subsequently filling it with gutta-percha, an inert natural latex material; the bone lesion is expected then to heal in the absence of further leakage of bacteria and their toxins from the root canal. The healing of the inflamed and often infected jaw bone around the apex of the tooth (i.e., root tip) may especially in hyperglycemic states be impaired and can be delayed or remain a source of chronic inflammation. When such teeth are extracted, an improvement in glycemic control is seen, although the body of evidence for this situation is scant. Radiographs are necessary to diagnose such healing, but in the United States, it is unethical to submit a population to radio­ graphic exposures of all teeth to search for Oral Health and Diabetes 31–23 periapical lucencies in the alveolar bone to study their epidemiology in the population. Soft pulp tissue (the “nerve”) is located inside the tooth, consists of blood vessels, connective tissue, and nerves, and is shown to be different in individuals with diabetes compared to those without diabetes (142). In addition, the hypergly­ cemia triggers loss of tooth support and causes histologic changes inhibiting osteo­ blastic differentiation and also stimulating bone resorption, which in turn enhances the progression of periapical lesions (142). As in chronic periodontitis that occurs at the gingival margin toward the crown of the tooth, periapical periodontitis (around the root tip) represents a chronic challenge with mostly anaerobic bacteria and their toxins that elicit inflammatory local responses that spread system ically. A review concluded that in hyperglycemic states, the prevalence of periapical lesions is higher, the bone lesions are larger, the likelihood of asymptomatic lesions is greater, and the prognosis for healing and survival of the tooth is lower than in normoglycemic individuals (143). A study specifically exploring periapical lesions in type 2 diabetes compared with people without diabetes found apical periodontitis around ≥1 tooth in 81.3% of the former versus 58% of the latter (OR 3.2, 95% CI 1.1–9.4) (144). Using teeth as the unit, the chance for teeth having apical periodon­ titis was almost double in those with diabetes compared to those without (OR 1.8, 95% CI 1.2–2.8) as 7% versus 4% of teeth were affected. A 2016 systematic review included
