Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


titis was almost double in those with diabetes compared to those without (OR 1.8, 95% CI 1.2–2.8) as 7% versus 4% of teeth were affected. A 2016 systematic review included seven eligible studies reporting on 1,593 root- filled teeth in 582 patients with diabetes and 1,011 patients without diabetes (145). The overall prevalence of radiolucent periapical lesions was 36% in those with diabetes versus 31% in those without. The authors of the meta-analysis calcu­ lated that root-filled teeth in people with diabetes had a significant 42% higher risk of periapical lesions than among those without diabetes (OR 1.42, 95% CI 1.11–1.80). DIABETES: EFFECT ON PERI- IMPLANT DISEASES Due to the relatively short history of using osseointegrated dental implants to replace missing teeth for functional and esthetic reasons, it is premature to eval­ uate their use in diabetes/hyperglycemia, which until recently was considered a relative contraindication for placing such implants. Lack of global case definitions for the peri-implant diseases also hampers high-quality synthesis of the current evidence. Nonetheless, in a systematic review and meta-analyses, the main question was whether diabetes/hyperglycemia affects the prevalence of the two peri-implant diseases of peri-implant mucositis (reversible) and peri-implantitis (irre­ versible). From 401 identified citations, results from 13 studies were included in the qualitative synthesis and 9 in the meta-analyses. Even though the evidence is fairly scant, a tendency toward greater prevalence in hyper­ glycemic conditions was suggested for both conditions in meta-analyses that included studies applying the same case definitions (146). In another review, a dose response was identified with the prevalence of peri-implantitis increasing with poorer glycemic control, as reported in the only two studies reporting on glycemic control, which involved 204 implants in 85 participants with diabetes. However, due to scarce evidence and poor similarity between case definitions used, a meta-analysis failed to show that more implants failed in people with diabetes compared to their normoglycemic peers (147). RISK FACTORS FOR PERIODONTITIS AND DIABETES (HYPERGLYCEMIA) The two-way association between diabetes/ hyperglycemia and periodontitis has been well established for years (6), and hence, these two conditions may be mutual risk factors (or determinants or indicators) for each other or share the same risks. What is realized is that the two conditions share many common risk factors. A large body of evidence supports the role of risk factors for periodontitis (14,148,149), and several of these are also risk factors or risk markers for diabetes (14,148).
