Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


risk factors. A large body of evidence supports the role of risk factors for periodontitis (14,148,149), and several of these are also risk factors or risk markers for diabetes (14,148). Two extensive reviews described and catego­ rized these risk factors as “nonmodifiable” and “modi fiable.” The nonmodifiable risk factors, that are not as unmodifiable as formerly assumed, include age, sex, race/ ethnicity, socioeconomic status, genetic polymorphism (inflammatory hypo- or hyper-response, elevated susceptibility), epigenetic, and other systemic conditions (genetic, dermatological, hematological, granulomatous, immunosuppressive, and neoplastic disorders) (148,149), as summa­ rized in Figure 31.8 (148). Modifiable risk factors include periodontal bacteria, fungi, and virus in the dental plaque; poor oral hygiene; cigarette smoking; alcohol consumption; hypergly­ cemia (diabetes, prediabetes); obesity; osteoporosis/dietary calcium/ vitamin D; HIV/AIDS; psychosocial factors (stress, anxiety, psychiatric conditions, such as depression, and inadequate coping skills); and diet/nutrition (14,149). Of special interest is the identification of risk indicators for periodontitis (using the CDC/AAP periodontitis case definitions) (18,19) based on the NHANES 2009–2012 data that pointed to cigarette smoking, especially current smoking, as an important modifiable risk for all levels of periodontitis severity. Also, advanced age is an important risk determinant, along with being male and having uncontrolled diabetes (150). 31–24 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition FIGURE 31.8. “Nonmodifiable” Risk Factors for Chronic Periodontitis and Diabetes Mellitus Are Largely Identical SOURCE: Reference 148, copyright © 2016 Springer, reprinted with permission MECHANISMS UNDERLYING THE BIDIRECTIONAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PERIODONTITIS AND DIABETES While a detailed explanation of the biologic, microbiologic, and inflammatory processes underlying the relationship between periodontal infection and diabetes is outside the scope of this chapter, a brief overview of some of the mechanisms considered in this bidirec­ tional relationship follows. The biologic plausibility of periodontitis adversely affecting glucose regulation and diabetes outcomes is based on evidence that chronic systemic inflam­ mation is involved in the development of insulin resistance and the pathogenesis of diabetes and that chronic periodontal infection contributes to systemic inflam­ mation, which in turn adversely affects insulin sensitivity and increases glucose dysregulation. In the opposite direction, hyperglycemia causes microvascular and macrovascular changes and delayed wound healing. Wound healing is necessary to help the periodontal soft tissues regain homeo­ stasis upon responding to the chronic injuries caused by the microbiota in the dental plaque found adhering to the sur­ face of the teeth and in the periodontal pockets. While the usual response to plaque accumulation is gingival inflam­ mation,
