Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


microbiota in the dental plaque found adhering to the sur­ face of the teeth and in the periodontal pockets. While the usual response to plaque accumulation is gingival inflam­ mation, those with diabetes develop an exaggerated and earlier inflammatory response than do normoglycemic individ­ uals (151). The nonenzymatic glycation and oxidation of proteins and lipids lead to formation of advanced glycation end­ products (AGEs). For example, glycated albumin has been shown to stimulate secretion of inflammatory cytokines by monocytes, especially when the latter were incubated with lipopolysaccharides (LPS) from periodontal bacteria associ­ ated with periodontitis (152). Figure 31.9 shows conceptually the two-way adverse effects periodontal infection and hyperglycemia exert on each other (122). Periodontal infection and diabetes influence each other in a bidi­ rectional relationship with wide-ranging activation of the innate immune system causing chronic low-grade systemic inflammation. These inflammatory responses are integrally involved in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes and its complications, through an ongoing cyto­ kine-induced acute-phase response. They are also implicated in the pathogenesis of periodontitis, in which proinflam­ matory cytokines play a central role in the host’s response to the periodontal biofilm. Periodontal infection contributes to the low-grade systemic inflammation associated with diabetes and thereby contributes to insulin resistance, IFG, IGT, poorer control of diabetes, and possibly the development of diabetes and its hyperglycemia-related complications. These mechanisms are illustrated concep­ tually in Figure 31.10, in which each arrow is supported by scientific evidence (87). HELICOBACTER PYLORI The bacterium Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is found as a transient or permanent inhabitant of the oral cavity, which may act as a reservoir and aid in recurrence of H. pylori gastric infection upon eradication—or even be part of the mechanism for initial infection of the stomach (153). This could have rele­ vance in glycemic control, according to the conclusion of a meta-analysis of six studies involving 325 participants with type 2 diabetes that there is a significant difference between H. pylori-positive and H. pylori-negative participants regarding their FPG levels (154). Oral Health and Diabetes 31–25 FIGURE 31.9. A “Two-Hit” Model for the Pathogenesis of Accelerated Periodontal Destruction in Patients With Diabetes A “two-hit” model for the pathogenesis of accelerated periodontal destruction in patients with diabetes. Bacterial challenge in an environment of enhanced RAGE expression, such as the periodontium of an individual with diabetes mellitus, leads to exaggerated inflammation and impaired repair, which in turn cause accelerated and severe
