Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


an environment of enhanced RAGE expression, such as the periodontium of an individual with diabetes mellitus, leads to exaggerated inflammation and impaired repair, which in turn cause accelerated and severe periodontal destruction. RAGE, receptor for advanced glycation endproducts. SOURCE: Reference 122, copyright © 2011 Nature Publishing Group, reprinted with permission GESTATIONAL DIABETES: PERIODONTAL BACTERIA AND SYSTEMIC INFLAMMATION A study in Turkey that compared groups consisting of various combinations of women with and without gingivitis and gestational diabetes demonstrated that gingivitis may increase the cumulative systemic inflammatory response during gestational diabetes (155). Having gesta­ tional diabetes was also independently associated with increased abundance of individual and multiple oral pathogens (all p<0.05). Both gingivitis and gestational diabetes contribute to elevated levels of CRP, a risk marker for adverse pregnancy outcomes and cardiovascular events. 31–26 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition FIGURE 31.10. Mechanisms Underlying the Associations Between Periodontitis and Hyperglycemia/Diabetes and Its Complications: Conceptual Model The oral microbiome in dental plaque (biofilm) causes infection in the gingival tissues that respond with inflammation. In particularly susceptible individuals, hyperinflammation will occur with subsequent breakdown of the alveolar bone surrounding the teeth in a vicious cycle fed by the dental plaque and the bacteria residing in the increasingly deep­ ening periodontal pockets (spaces between the teeth and the surrounding periodontal tissues). The inflammatory response will occur both locally in the periodontium, but also systemically due to the circulating inflammatory mediators from both the local infection, as well as elicited by the bacteremia with periodontal bacteria and their endotoxins/ lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Contributing directly to the hyperinflammation is probably sugar added to the diet, which seems to cause both indirect negative effects via adiposity and also directly triggers the inflammatory cascade. Chronic overexpression of proinflammatory mediators, such as cytokines (e.g., IL, interleukin; TNF, tumor necrosis factor), can contribute to insulin resis­ tance and stimulate the liver to express acute-phase reactants, such as C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A, and fibrinogen, which contribute to hyperglycemia. The hyperinflammatory state also contributes to pancreatic beta cell damage, leading to hyperglycemia, which causes oxidative and other cellular stress that—via energy depri­ vation represented by the mitochondrion and the hyperglycemia-driven increased activation of leukocytes represented by the neutrophil—contributes via free radicals and other reactive species (ROS) to neuropathy and atherosclerosis, for example. The advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) irreversibly formed due to the hyperglycemia activate their chief signaling receptor (RAGE) and cause further inflammatory
