Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


not statistically significant compared to those without diabetes. U.S. Non-Population-Based Studies In the aforementioned prospective study following a cohort of 760 male U.S. veterans for up to 33 years, suffering from metabolic syndrome significantly increased the adjusted hazard for tooth loss (HR 1.39, 95% CI 1.08–1.79). Also, its impact on tooth loss increased with the number of metabolic syndrome conditions present (130). Among 1,097 point-of-care A1c-tested adults age ≥40 years (≥30 years, if Hispanic) in Manhattan, New York, 494 were newly diagnosed with potential hyperglycemia; the number of missing teeth increased in a dose-response manner with increasing level of hyper­ glycemia. Statistically significantly more teeth (±SD) were missing in the overt diabetes group (9.3±7.1) than in the prediabetes group (7.4±6.7) that again had more missing teeth than the normo­ glycemic group (5.8±6.2) (132). However, the higher number of missing teeth in the diabetes group than in those with predia­ betes did not reach statistical significance. Root Fragments A root fragment is defined as any permanent residual tooth structure, predominantly composed of dental root structure, with more than 90% of the coronal structure (crown of the tooth) destroyed by caries, and occupying the position of a tooth within the dental arch (169). The presence of such root remnants may be a marker for lack of access to dental care for its removal or for treat­ ment (or prevention) of the severe caries on the root or the crown of the tooth that could prevent the occurrence of root fragments. While the oral examination in the NHANES 2009–2012 did not include examination for coronal or root caries in adults age ≥30 years, the presence of root remnants was assessed. The age-stan­ dardized (except for results by age groups) and age-stratified prevalences of any root fragments by diabetes status and glycemic control status are presented in Table 31.6 and illustrated in Figures 31.15 and 31.16. As shown in Table 31.6, there was consis­ tent evidence of a gradient of increased prevalence of any root fragments in the categories of diabetes status from normal glucose levels to prediabetes to diabetes. This consistent gradient of increased root fragment prevalence also occurs from normal glucose levels to better controlled diabetes (A1c ≤7%) to poorer controlled diabetes (A1c >7%). Additionally, in almost every subpopulation category, the prevalence of any root fragments was greater for individuals with diabetes and for individuals with poorer controlled diabetes than for those
