Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


caries in children is inconclusive. However, there is greater consistency in the evidence for adults with diabetes to have greater occurrence of root caries than people without diabetes (174,179). National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys In the NHANES 1999–2004 representing the U.S. population age ≥20 years, 14,213 individuals (representing a population of 172.4 million) had oral examinations and 11,761 were dentate (160). Remarkably, almost three-quarters (72.7%) of the participants with diabetes received a referral for treatment from the oral examiner for the most pressing treatment needs, caries (35.8%) and periodontitis (36.6%). Corresponding percentages for all participants (including those with diabetes) were 59.3% total, with 25.6% for caries and 24.3% for periodontitis. The study also reported that among partici­ pants with diabetes, 57.2% rated their oral health “poor” versus 39.1% of all dentate participants (160). However, due to the cross-sectional design of the NHANES, no causality can be deducted, so it was not possible to know whether having diabetes or some other factors in the people with diabetes led to the poor oral health status. Non-U.S. Study Japanese researchers followed 117,175 neonates and concluded that the newborn 31–38 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition conditions of macrosomia (birthweight ≥4,000 g) and large for gestational age (LGA) both were associated with increased risk of caries at 3 years of follow-up (180). This finding is relevant because babies born to women with diabetes often are macrosomic or LGA. DRY MOUTH The term “dry mouth” can be used for both xerostomia and hyposalivation, but the two conditions do not necessarily occur simultaneously. Xerostomia is the subjective feeling of mouth dryness, whereas hyposalivation refers to salivary hypofunction with diminished saliva secretion. Evidence is consistent that reported dry mouth is more frequent in people with type 1 (181) and type 2 diabetes at all ages than in those without diabetes. However, the reported relation­ ship of this association to other measures of diabetes status, such as metabolic control and diabetic neuropathy, is not consistent (87); some studies, however, have reported that neuropathy in people with type 1 diabetes is often associated with dry mouth (181). Diabetic neuropathy can affect the nerves that control the salivary production (87). Consequences of hyposalivation include diminished quality of life; increased risk of dental caries, gingivitis, and periodontitis; and oral mucosal infections, especially Candida albicans; taste and olfactory diminution; difficulties in eating and speaking; devel­ opment of denture-related mucosal ulcers; and difficulties
