Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


of dental caries, gingivitis, and periodontitis; and oral mucosal infections, especially Candida albicans; taste and olfactory diminution; difficulties in eating and speaking; devel­ opment of denture-related mucosal ulcers; and difficulties in retention of upper complete dentures (87). Moreover, people suffering from diabetes and all patients undergoing hemodialysis are likely to use several medications, almost all of which can cause dry mouth and thereby greatly affects their quality of life (182). CANDIDIASIS Infection by the fungus Candida albicans (thrush) or dormant carriage is one of the most commonly reported “non-dental” oral complications of diabetes. Poor glycemic control, with concomitant increased levels of glucose in the blood, saliva, and tissues, in combination with diminished polymorphonuclear neutrophil phagocytosis and killing capacity have been proposed to explain Candida over­ growth in people with diabetes. Studies indicate Candida albicans is the species most frequently identified. There are several risk factors associated with the presence of Candida pseudohyphae in adults with diabetes, including presence of removable dentures, poor glycemic control, and current cigarette smoking. The largest study on the association between diabetes and oral Candida infec­ tion and Candida lesions conducted in the United States reported that adults with type 1 diabetes had significantly greater prevalence of Candida pseudohyphae (a measure of Candida carriage) than the comparison group without diabetes, namely 23% and 5.7%, respectively (183). Individuals with type 1 diabetes also had significantly greater prevalence of Candida-related clinical mucosal lesions, including atrophy of the tongue dorsum papillae, median rhomboid glossitis, angular cheilitis, and denture stomatitis. Studies outside the United States have further elaborated on the presence of Candida species. Among persons age 21–70 years with type 2 diabetes, higher prevalence was found among those with A1c >9%, age >40 years, men, and those with periodontitis (184), whereas another study found the highest prevalence in women of all ages and in those with poor glycemic control. Eight different Candida species were identified with Candida albicans most frequently present, more often on the dorsum of the tongue than in subgingival plaque (185). Even in predia­ betes, Candida carriage was shown to be more prevalent than in normoglycemic adults (186). Candida species were found in most persons age 3–18 years, but resulted in candidiasis only in children with type 1 diabetes or with nephrotic syndrome undergoing treatment with immunosuppressive medication (187). More information about Candida infec­ tions in persons with diabetes is available in Chapter 30 Infections Associated
