Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


type 1 diabetes or with nephrotic syndrome undergoing treatment with immunosuppressive medication (187). More information about Candida infec­ tions in persons with diabetes is available in Chapter 30 Infections Associated With Diabetes. BURNING MOUTH AND OTHER CONDITIONS CAUSED BY DIABETIC NEUROPATHY Burning mouth syndrome, or glossodynia, is characterized by a chronic sensation of burning or irritation of the oral mucosa and/or tongue (87). It is classified as “primary” if there is no clear clinical cause for the symptoms (188). The “secondary” form of burning mouth syndrome involves presence of an identifiable cause. The evidence suggests diabetes and diabetes- related conditions of oral candidiasis, xerostomia, and poor glycemic control may be associated with burning mouth syndrome. Burning mouth syndrome is more prevalent in women who are experi­ encing or have experienced menopause. For instance, in the Pittsburgh EDC study, the investigators found being female and having diabetes neuropathy were significantly associated with symptoms of burning mouth syndrome (189). Synthesis of the literature supported diabetic neuropathy as an underlying cause of glossodynia in people with diabetes (87). Additionally, this review explored the association of three other oral conditions with diabetic neuropathy: taste impair­ ment (dysgeusia), trigeminal nerve pain, and temporomandibular joint disorders (87). Evidence consistently supported an association of diabetic neuropathy with dysgeusia, but data were sparse to deduce this association with the two other disorders (87). Oral Health and Diabetes 31–39 DENTAL CARE UTILIZATION IN PEOPLE WITH DIABETES CROSS-SECTIONAL STUDIES U.S. Population-Based Studies National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys Analysis of the NHANES 1999–2004 data investigated the influence of periodontitis, as well as female sex, on the association between diabetes status and dental care visits among 8,451 dentate adults age ≥25 years (190). Unlike the finding from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) 2003 of a female-specific associ­ ation between diabetes status and dental care visits (191), described later in this section, this study did not identify such effect. A significantly lower percentage of dentate adults with diabetes had a dental visit the prior year than those without diabetes, namely 56.8% versus 64.7%, respectively, but this difference was not limited to women. Similarly, having periodontitis was not an independent predictor of dental care in dentate people with diabetes. The adjusted odds ratio for individuals with diabetes having a dental visit the preceding year were 29% lower than those without diabetes (OR 0.71, 95% CI 0.5–1.00, p<0.05). Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System
