Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


a higher percentage of participants with diabetes who earned college degrees reporting annual dental visits than those without a high school diploma (86% vs. 66%), as well as a higher percentage of participants 31–40 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition with diabetes living in households with annual incomes of ≥$65,000 than those with annual household incomes of ≤$15,000 (85% vs. 59%) (196). PERIODONTAL CARE, GLYCEMIC CONTROL, MEDICAL CARE UTILIZATION, AND COSTS: INSURANCE CLAIMS DATA In addition to population-based survey data describing differences in dental care utilization in individuals with and without diabetes, a small number of studies have investigated dental and medical care administrative claims data from insurance companies. Even though these data were not collected for the purpose of research, and data on important confounders were not collected, these studies have provided some additional perspectives on the impact of dental care utilization on systemic health, medical care utilization, and medical care costs in people with diabetes. A 2-year retrospective insurance claims study among 116,306 enrollees with simultaneous medical and dental coverage concluded that insureds who received periodontitis treatment (proxy for having periodontitis) incurred significantly higher per member per month medical costs for diabetes care compared to those receiving only gingivitis treatment or no such treatment (proxy for not having periodontitis) (197). A cross-sectional study linking 5 years of electronic medical record and dental insurance claims data for patients with diabetes investigated A1c levels among 5,103 adults age 40–70 years, comparing those who had to those who had not received periodontal treatment (198). The study reported that 38% of participants received periodontal care (i.e., had been diagnosed with periodontitis) during the previous 5 years. The average A1c level was 0.08% higher in patients who received periodontal care than in those who did not (p=0.02). The authors attributed this difference to likely reflect the effect of periodontitis on A1c levels. In stratified analyses, this association was present for women (0.18 percentage points higher for those receiving periodontal care, p<0.001), but was not significant for men (0.008 percentage points lower, p=0.86). Individuals who received more intensive periodontal treatment had lower A1c levels. Intensive periodontal treatment was defined as receiving one and two or more surgical treatments or having a total number of nonsurgical periodontal visits above the median. Individuals with more than the median number of nonsurgical visits had a mean A1c level of 0.13 (p=0.01) percentage points lower, and those with one
