Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


periodontal visits above the median. Individuals with more than the median number of nonsurgical visits had a mean A1c level of 0.13 (p=0.01) percentage points lower, and those with one and two or more surgical treatments had A1c levels that were 0.25 (p=0.04) and 0.36 percentage points lower, respectively, than individ­ uals without periodontal surgeries. The investigators suggested their observation of lower A1c associated with greater intensity of periodontal treatment was consistent with meta-analyses supporting the concept that periodontal treatment improves glycemic control (198). A retrospective cohort study investigated the effect of regular receipt of dental care on diabetes control, diabetes-specific emergency department visits, and diabe­ tes-specific hospital admissions among adult members of a health maintenance organization with type 2 diabetes who had medical and dental insurance benefits continuously during the 36-month study period (199). Participants included 493 adults age 18–80 years who received regular dental care (defined as ≥2 dental cleaning visits, periodontal treatment visits, or both during a 12-month period) who were matched with 493 people with diabetes who did not receive regular dental care. Receipt of regular dental care was associated with lower diabe­ tes-specific emergency room utilization (OR 0.61, 95% CI 0.40–0.92) and hospital admissions (OR 0.61, 95% CI 0.39–0.95). The analyses did not indicate a statistically significant association between receipt of regular dental care and glycemic control, but the authors suggested receipt of dental care may reduce diabetes-specific health care utilization (199). A comprehensive literature search concluded there is almost no evidence exploring associations between perio-dontal disease and medical expen­ ditures related to diabetes in which periodontal health status is assessed applying an objective index (200). Regrettably, the only study identified by the search was a flawed study (201,202). But the authors also reported their findings regarding 359 Japanese adults age 80 years participating in the longi­ tudinal Niigata Study. Based on clinical periodontal examinations, they calcu­ lated the inflamed periodontal surface area, which, in a dose-response manner, was correlated with diabetes-related medical expenses (200). INTERPROFESSIONAL COLLABORATION Given the important mutual effects of oral health and diabetes/hyperglycemia, it is crucial for all health professionals to collaborate in an interprofessional, patient-centered team approach that includes dental care professionals for the patient with hyperglycemia. Potentially, such dental care providers could even play important managerial roles in such teams (203,204). The National Institutes of Health/National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases focused on such inter­ professional
