Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


care providers could even play important managerial roles in such teams (203,204). The National Institutes of Health/National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases focused on such inter­ professional efforts in a comprehensive report “Redesigning the Health Care Team: Diabetes Prevention and Lifelong Management” (205) that includes a description of practical approaches in the section “Collaborative care in prac­ tice” (206). Both dental health care providers (207) and dental patients may be ready to accept screening for hyperglycemia/ diabetes in the dental setting (208). In the future, such glucose screening and moni­ toring might occur by using a noninvasive Oral Health and Diabetes 31–41 sampling of the GCF found in the space between the teeth and the gingiva in patients with periodontitis, because glycemic levels in GCF and in blood are closely correlated (0.991) (209). In a medical-dental research collaboration in which a simple, nine-item questionnaire was developed (and supplemented by random capillary glucose levels for valida­ tion), a study was conducted in 13 private general dental offices in Michigan among 1,013 adult, dentate patients (mean age[±SD] 52.8[±12.7] years) who stated they did not have diabetes. However, 30% had hyperglycemia, with more than one-quarter (28.7%) having prediabetes and 1.3% having type 2 diabetes (210). Due to the shared risk factors for periodontitis and diabetes, management of such risks is proposed to also occur in the dental office (14,148,211), with a major goal being reduction of the cumula­ tive systemic inflammatory burden (212). Medical care providers are gradually being introduced to the notion of incorporating awareness of the health of the oral cavity in diabetes management as exempli­ fied by a review paper with practical examples targeting nurse practitioners (213). Primary care physicians reportedly regard medical screening in dental offices as both valuable and worthwhile (214), whereas organizations and other authori­ ties were found to have a positive attitude, but need more information and elevated awareness of the concept of dental chair­ side medical screening (215). In a novel study among 143,212 Saudi adults (mean age[±SD] 57[±14.2] years, range 40–84 years), the presence of a periapical abscess was identified as a potential sign of undiagnosed diabetes, with recurrent periapical abscesses occurring specifically in uncontrolled diabetes in a dose-response relationship with A1c levels (216). Thus, both dental and medical care providers could use this sign to look for undiagnosed diabetes, especially in older patients in whom undiagnosed diabetes could cause severe
