Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


A1c levels (216). Thus, both dental and medical care providers could use this sign to look for undiagnosed diabetes, especially in older patients in whom undiagnosed diabetes could cause severe health consequences. Likewise, the fact that people with diabetes consistently are reported to have fewer teeth than their normoglycemic counterparts (161) could be used by all health care providers to suspect potentially undiagnosed diabetes and other chronic diseases, especially cardiovascular disease. The degree of missing teeth has been associated with all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality, as concluded by a systematic review of cohort studies (217). This was also shown among 500 participants in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA) (218). Knowing the sign of having few or no natural teeth could aid health professionals to identify frailty and look closer for various health issues related to premature mortality or a poor longevity prognosis. PUBLIC HEALTH SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ORAL HEALTH-DIABETES LINKS Oral health-related quality of life is repeatedly found to be lower in people with diabetes. An analysis of BRFSS 2006, 2008, and 2010 data from 70,363 U.S. inhabitants age ≥65 years with diabetes and 308,658 without diabetes found that tooth loss and lack of dental care were associated with more days with low levels of general health in the preceding month (164). Both periodontitis and diabetes are chronic, inflammation-related diseases that share virtually the same risk factors and often occur in the same individ­ uals, with the two diseases mutually and adversely affecting each other in a two-way relationship. Therefore, any prevention or treatment provided for one of the diseases would be expected to also positively impact the other. In the case of periodontitis, relatively simple measures are available to prevent or manage the development or progres­ sion of the periodontal tissue breakdown. Evidence exists that nonsurgical periodontal therapy supported by effec­ tive home oral hygiene measures, such as tooth brushing, decreases the amount of dental plaque and its inflammatory responses in type 2 diabetes. In addition to treatment by periodontists who are dentists with several years of specialty education, such treatment and oral hygiene instruction can be provided by dental hygienists, dental therapists, or general dentists in dental offices or clinics. Because periodontitis and diabetes share the same risk factors, the same individuals often have both diseases. The prevalence pattern of both diseases shows severe disparities, as they affect mostly the social groups and minorities with the
