Chapter 31: Oral Health and Diabetes
KEYWORDS: diabetes, periodontitis, age, years, glucose, teeth, health, prevalence, dental, periodontal, age years, type, risk, studies, participants


same risk factors, the same individuals often have both diseases. The prevalence pattern of both diseases shows severe disparities, as they affect mostly the social groups and minorities with the least resources to cope with these diseases and their consequences. Screening and monitoring of diabetes in a dental setting could be valuable for early detection, prevention, or early treat­ ment and monitoring (219) and, hence, improve public health beyond the health of the oral cavity. Actual cost savings for the U.S. health care system were estimated for screen­ ings in the dental setting of dental patients age ≥40 years for diabetes, hyperten­ sion, and hypercholesterolemia. Savings from $42.4 million ($13.51 per person screened) to $102.6 million ($32.72 per person screened) over 1 year were esti­ mated (220). Over the longer term, greater savings could be realized by prevention and monitoring. For 3 years, Mosen et al. followed 493 partic­ ipants with type 2 diabetes who received regular dental care and 493 with type 2 diabetes who did not have regular dental visits and discovered that the former group received less diabetes-related medical care in the form of visits to the emergency room, as well as hospitalization (199). In another 3-year study, the Mosen team followed 5,216 adults who had regular dental care and 5,216 who did not and concluded that those who received at least one annual dental visit had better adherence to 7 of 11 measures contained 31–42 DIABETES IN AMERICA, 3rd Edition in the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) (221), including diabetes-related screening for retinopathy and better A1c levels. People with diabetes are consistently shown to have less frequent dental visits than their diabetes-free counterparts (190,191,192,193,194), which is especially pronounced among those who also have chronic kidney disease (222). Hence, such patients might benefit if medical care providers include attainment of a “healthy mouth as free of infection and inflamma­ tion as possible” in the management of diabetes and properly refer the patient for dental assessment and treatment if needed, complete with monitoring. Likewise, the providers of dental care can enhance the health of their patients by being aware of the possibility that their patients might have undiagnosed or poorly controlled diabetes and refer them to medical care providers for proper assessment and follow-up. Since controlling the cumulative load of bacteria and its subsequent inflammatory responses in a person’s body by cleaning the teeth is a
