Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


IDSA GUIDELINES T Clinical Practice Guideline by Infectious Diseases Society of P America (IDSA): 2025 Guideline on Management and I R Treatment of Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: Selection of Antibiotic Therapy for CoCmplicated UTI S Barbara W. Trautner,1 Nicolás W. Cortés-Penfield,2 Kalpana Gupta,3 Elizabeth B. Hirsch,4 Molly Horstman,5 Gregory J. Moran,6 Richard Colga U n,7 John C. O’Horo,8 Muhammad S. Ashraf,9 Shannon Connolly,10 Dimitri Drekonja,11 Larissa Grigoryan,12 Angela Huttner,13 N Gweneth B. Lazenby,14 Lindsay Nicolle,15 Anthony Schaeffer,16 Sigal Yawetz,17 Valéry Lavergne,18,19 A M 5Center for Innovations inE Quality, Effectiveness, and Safety, Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical T Medical CenterP, Los Angeles, CA, USA, 7Department of Family and Community Medicine, E C C A ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ Corresponding author : © The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases Society of translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact . This article is published and distributed under the terms of the Oxford publication-reuse-rights) DOI: Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP 14Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Medicine Division of Infectious Diseases, P I R S Arlington, VA, USA U A. Initial Selection among Empiric Antibiotic Options for Complicated UTI N B. Stepwise Process to Guide Empiric Antibiotic Choice for Complicated UTI A C. Selection of Definitive Antibiotic Therapy for Complicated UTI A. INITIAL SELECTION AMONGM EMPIRIC ANTIBIOTIC OPTIONS FOR COMPLICATED UTI In patients with cuti, which cDlasses of empiric antibiotic therapy should initially be prioritized? E Recommendations: T I. For patients with sepsis due to complicated UTI, we suggest initially selecting among the P following antibiotics, using the four-step assessment (Figure 1.1): third- or fourth- genEeration cephalosporins, carbapenems, piperacillin-tazobactam, or fluoroquinolones, rather than newer agents (novel beta lactam-beta lactamase inhibitors, cefiderocol, C plazomicin) or older aminoglycosides (conditional recommendation, very low to moderate Ccertainty of evidence). A Remarks: -See Table 1.1 for a more complete list of empiric antibiotic therapy options. -Please refer to the four-step approach in Figure 1.1 to choose among these antibiotics for the specific patient (i.e., severity of illness, risk factors for having resistant uropathogen, patient-specific considerations, and antibiogram). -Agents with broader spectrum of activity against organisms other than Enterobacterales (e.g. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, enterococci, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) may be considered for patients with sepsis in whom the DOI: 2 Downloaded from
