Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


spectrum of activity against organisms other than Enterobacterales (e.g. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, enterococci, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) may be considered for patients with sepsis in whom the DOI: 2 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP diagnosis of cUTI is not clear or who are suspected to have cUTI due to these pathogens. Comments: T -This recommendation places a higher value on providing early, appropriate empiric antibiotic therapy to prevent mortality while deferring stewardship cPonsiderations to definitive therapy. I R - The certainty of evidence was moderate for all classes of antibiotics, except for third and fourth generation cephalosporins, and older aminoglycosides, for C which the certainty of evidence was very low. S II. For patients with suspected complicated UTI without sepsis, we suggest initially selecting U among the following antibiotics, using the four-step assessment (Figure 1.1): third- or fourth-generation cephalosporins, piperacillin-tazobactam, or fluoroquinolones, rather N than carbapenems and newer agents (novel beta lactam-beta lactamase inhibitors, cefiderocol, plazomicin) or older aminAoglycosides (conditional recommendation, very low to moderate certainty of evidence). M Remarks: -See Table 1.1 for a mor e complete list of empiric antibiotic therapy options. D -Please refer to the four-step approach in Figure 1.1 to choose among these antibiotics E for the specific patient (i.e., severity of illness, risk factors for having resistant uropathoTgen, and patient-specific considerations). -OthPer agents (e.g., trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, amoxicillin-clavulanate, first or second-generation cephalosporins) are less well studied but may be appropriate in E select settings or situations for empiric oral treatment of cUTI. C Comments: C -This recommendation places a higher value on antibiotic stewardship considerations A in patients with cUTI who are not septic and in whom the risk of infection-related mortality is low while also considering costs, resources, and practical aspects of antibiotic administration -The certainty of evidence was moderate for all classes of antibiotics, except for third and fourth generation cephalosporins and older aminoglycosides, for which the certainty of evidence was very low. DOI: 3 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Table 1.1: Potential Empiric Antibiotics for cUTI^ prior to using the four-step approach to choose among these options Four-Step Approach to choose among these antibiotics: Assess (1) severity of illness, (2) risk factors for resistance, (3) patient-specific considerations, and (4) if septic, consider the antibiogram. See discussion below for details of the four steps. T Condition of the Patient Preferred Alternative P Sepsis with or without Third or fourth
