Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


(4) if septic, consider the antibiogram. See discussion below for details of the four steps. T Condition of the Patient Preferred Alternative P Sepsis with or without Third or fourth generation Novel beta lactam-beta shock** cephalosporins,* lactamase in I hibitors,+ carbapenems,# piperacillin- cefider R ocol, plazomicin, or tazobactam, older aminoglycosides% fluoroquinolones& C Without sepsis, IV route of Third or fourth generation Carbapenems,# newer therapy cephalosporins,* piperacillin-Sagents (novel beta lactams- tazobactam, or beta lactamase inhibitors,+ U fluoroquinolones& cefiderocol, plazomicin), or older aminoglycosides% Without sepsis, oral route of Fluoroquinolones&N or Amoxicillin-clavulanate or therapy trimethoprim- oral cephalosporins (see sulfamethoxAazole Table 3.1) ^Difficult-to-treat resistant pathogens may require use of drugs not listed here (e.g., colistin); refer to IDSA Antimicrobial Resistance guidance. M **Sepsis is life-threatening organ dysfunction related to infection, identified by SOFA score of 2 or higher. Screening tools such as qSOFA or SIRS may be useful for presumptive identification. In sepsis with shock, in step 4 choose an antibiotic for which the susceptibilities of the most relevant organisms are at least 90%. In sepsis D without shock, in step 4 choose an antibiotic for which the susceptibilities of the most relevant organisms are at least 80%. E *Third and fourth generation IV cephalosporins include: ceftriaxone, ceftazidime, cefotaxime, and cefepime. (see Table 2.1 & 3.1, Dosing of IV and oral antibiotics for cUTI). T &The fluoroquinolones approved for UTI currently include ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin. #The carbapenemPs currently include imipenem-cilastatin, doripenem, meropenem, and ertapenem. +The novel beta lactam-beta lactamase inhibitors currently include ceftolozane-tazobactam, ceftazidime- E avibactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, and imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam. %Older aminoglycosides include gentamicin, amikacin, and tobramycin. C This table was created in 2025; new drugs approved after this date may also be appropriate choices. C Please note that nitrofurantoin and oral fosfomycin are generally not appropriate choices for cUTI because they may not achieve adequate levels in renal parenchyma and blood. A DOI: 4 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Figure 1.1: Four-step approach to choosing empiric antimicrobial therapy for cUTI Patient with cUTI T P Evaluate severity of I illness R C Sepsis with shock Sepsis without shock No sepsis S U Evaluate risk factors for Evaluate risk factors for Evaluate risk factors for N resistant organisms resistant organisms resistant organisms A Assess patient-specific Assess patient-specific Assess patient-specific M factors factors factors D Consider antibiogram: Consider antibiogram: threshold of >90% threshold of >80% susceptible susceptible E This approach starTts with the
