Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


A Assess patient-specific Assess patient-specific Assess patient-specific M factors factors factors D Consider antibiogram: Consider antibiogram: threshold of >90% threshold of >80% susceptible susceptible E This approach starTts with the most important issue—the patient’s severity of illness— and then takes into consideration the patient’s risk factors for having a pathogen resistant P to specific antibiotics or antibiotic classes, as well as practical issues such as antibiotic allergies.E Finally, and only for patients with sepsis related to cUTI, the local antibiogram may have a role in helping the provider avoid inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy if C it is recent and relevant to the patient under consideration. The antibiogram is the last of Cthe four recommended steps, as the evidence that using a facility’s antibiogram to guide antibiotic prescribing for individual patients improves outcomes is very uncertain. A Choosing which organism to focus on in the antibiogram is also a challenge in empiric INdTecRisOioDnU mCaTkIinOgN. T he most relevant organism is suggested by the prior urine culture, if available. If not, E. coli is the default organism. Complicated UTI (cUTI) is one of the more common reasons for emergency department visits and hoKsepyi:t aSle apdsmisi isss iliofen-.t Shreelaetcetnioinng oofr gaapnp rdoypsrfiuantcet ieomn preirlaicte adn ttoi biniofetcictiso fno, rid ceUntTifIie cda bny b ae ScOomFAp lex because score of > 2. Septic shock is defined as sepsis in which despite volume resuscitation, of increasing resistance to antibiotics used to treat UTI, the association between active empiric vasopressors are required and serum lactate is > 2 mmol/L. Risk factors for resistant therapy and improved outcomes in UTI, and the availability of newer and broader spectrum agents. organisms include prior urine cultures with a resistant organism and fluoroquinolone exposure Many new antibiotics have received FDA approval for treating cUTI since the prior IDSA UTI in the past 12 months. Patient-specific factors include allergies, contraindications, and drug- gudirduegl iinnteesr aocnt icoynsst.i Atinst aibniodg pryamel othnreepshhroiltdiss wreeferer tpou tbhlei sshuesdc.e Tphtieb ilriatinesd oomf tihzee dm,o csotn rterloelvlaendt trials to gain organism(s). DOI: 5 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP these FDA approvals provide a rich evidence base about the efficacy of various antibiotics for empiric treatment of cUTI. As these trials followed FDA guidance about cUTI trial design, most are similar in design (non-inferiority) and patient populations. This is, at once, both a strength and a weakness of the evidence base. For example, we can
