Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


cUTI trial design, most are similar in design (non-inferiority) and patient populations. This is, at once, both a strength and a weakness of the evidence base. For example, we can draw comparisons across trials (assuming similar prevalence of resistance), but the inclusion/exclusion criteria were selected foTr a younger population with few comorbidities and often excluded patients in septic shock. Mortality in the P trials that accepted patients without specifying a resistant uropathogen as an inclusion criterion I was accordingly low (< 1% in all), which may not reflect real-world survival for patients R hospitalized with cUTI. Another common design feature in these randomized, controlled trials is S cUTI or acute pyelonephritis do not typically return for clinical assessment or repeat urine cultures. practice guidelines as asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) treatment does not prevent UTI and may predispose to subsequent recurrent UTI.1-4 UncertaNinty over the clinical relevance of ASB at the test of cure study visit influenced the panel’s choice of important outcomes, as discussed below. A The scope of this clinical question was limited to empiric choice of antibiotics in suspected cUTI. If the causative organism has alreadyM been identified as a difficult-to-treat resistant pathogen, please refer to the IDSA guidance on antimicrobial resistance.5 For patients with septic shock from a urinary source, in addition to using these cUTI guidelines to guide empiric antimicrobial therapy, D please refer to the Sepsis-3 Task Force guidelines for other management strategies.6 The guidelines below first discuss the evidence for specific antibiotics or classes of antibiotics that can be used as E empiric therapy for cUTI. Then, the stepwise approach is discussed, with explanations of the evidence on the poteTntial impact of inappropriate initial antibiotic therapy, the predictive value of specific risk factors for having a resistant uropathogen (including prior urine cultures and prior P antibiotic exposure), and modeling approaches for establishing what threshold to use on the E antibiogram when choosing empiric antibiotics for a cUTI patient with sepsis. C Background on the trials providing evidence about specific antibiotics for cUTI C All but five of these 15 published trials discussed here were designed as FDA registration trials to gain an FDA indication for a novel agent’s use in cUTI and pyelonephritis (See Table A.1 A “Characteristics of Included Studies” in the Supplementary Materials). Thus, most trials followed the FDA-recommended non-inferiority design and largely demonstrated that the newer agents are non-inferior to older antibiotics.
