Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


A.1 A “Characteristics of Included Studies” in the Supplementary Materials). Thus, most trials followed the FDA-recommended non-inferiority design and largely demonstrated that the newer agents are non-inferior to older antibiotics. Patients enrolled in these randomized, controlled trials may not reflect the real-world population with cUTI; many of the randomized, controlled trials had a low mortality rate (1% or less) compared to the above 5% mortality rates reported in observational studies examining the consequences of inappropriate empiric antimicrobial therapy (IEAT) in cUTI. Another important caveat is that clinical and microbiological outcomes in some trials were affected by high levels of uropathogen resistance to one of the antibiotics under comparison (such as fluoroquinolones or ceftriaxone). DOI: 6 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP The aim of our systematic review was to assess the balance of benefits and harms for currently used antibiotics (especially in the context of increasing resistance) as well as the drugs newly available in the US since 2008. We found antimicrobial agents were generally comparable in terms we conclude that other factors, such as patient risk factors for resistance to specificT antibiotics, antibiotic stewardship considerations, drug adverse event profiles, and cost should drive choice P among these agents. A decisional strategy for selecting empiric therapy in cUTI will be presented. I Methods for reviewing specific antibiotic classes for empiric treatmRent of cUTI To understand the evidence presented, it is important to appreciate thCe following issues: the choice of antibiotics, the timeframe of the studies, the background level of antibiotic resistance, the S of antibiotics and years of publication are addressed beUlow. Please see the introduction for a discussion of the prioritization of outcomes and selection of a clinical decision threshold. The N background level of antibiotic resistance is addressed under each specific class of antibiotics, in the context of the studies that provided the supporting evidence. A Choice of antibiotics: M The panel established some criteria for which antibiotics to include in these cUTI guidelines. The antibiotic needed to be available in t he United States, which implies FDA approval (although not D necessarily for a UTI indication). Drugs that sought but did not attain FDA approval for cUTI were not included in our evidence tables, but we discuss several of these drugs below. E Years of publication: T The literature search for randomized, controlled trials of empiric treatment of cUTI started in 2008, P updating from
