Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


we discuss several of these drugs below. E Years of publication: T The literature search for randomized, controlled trials of empiric treatment of cUTI started in 2008, P updating from prior guidelines. To gather evidence on risk factors for having an organism resistant E to specific antibiotics or for more general concepts related to cUTI treatment, literature searches starteCd in 2000. Some older antibiotics have not been tested in a randomized, controlled trial since 2008 but may still have relevance to empiric treatment of cUTI; for such antibiotics, we looked at C literature reviews and provided narrative discussion. Ampicillin-sulbactam, cefazolin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) have not been tested in an RCT for cUTI since 2008; A their ongoing relevance to empiric treatment of cUTI is unclear due to the high prevalence of resistance among Escherichia coli to these antibiotics. Many antibiotics included in our search strategy were not actually studied in any of the references identified to form the evidence base for indirect evidence from similar/nearly equivalent antibiotics. Our literature searches for clinical trials of various antibiotics to treat cUTI extended back to studies published in 2008, picking up where the prior UTI guidelines’ literature review stopped. Although the prior UTI guidelines focused on cystitis and pyelonephritis in premenopausal DOI: 7 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP women, the panel judged that literature prior to 2008 would not be relevant to management of cUTI in the current era. In particular, the prevalence of antibiotic resistance among urinary pathogens has changed considerably from 2008 to the present (2023). Additionally, many prior first-line antibiotics for cUTI (e.g., aminoglycosides and ceftriaxone) were rarely studied in randomized, controlled trials from 2008-2023, as much older trials had established theTir efficacy. P information such as the main uropathogens isolated and their rates of resistance to the study I antibiotics, are given in the Supplemental Materials (Table “Characteristics of the Included R Studies”). C Antibiotics’ effectiveness in these trials related to the prevalence of resistance among uropathogens to each of the two study drugs in the study poSpulation at the time. Usually, the comparator in a given trial was an older agent with a higher prevalence of resistance among the U isolated uropathogens. An unconfounded comparison would require the prevalence of resistance to each study drug to be the same. In these guidelines’ supporting text and tables, we have reported N resistance rates in two different
