Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


lead to similar rates of microbiological cure as ertapenem (RD: 0.9%; 95% CI: -9.9% to 11.6% / RR: 1.01; 95%CI: 0.89 to 1.14).T Recurrence of infection was not reported in this study. P Patients treated with ceftriaxone may experience fewer non-serious adversIe events than the comparator group (4.4% in ceftriaxone group vs 10.6% in ertapenem groRup), with the ceftriaxone group experiencing fewer drug-related gastrointestinal adverse events (diarrhea and nausea). No C serious adverse events were documented, and mortality was not reported. S Other considerations U Ceftriaxone is a practical choice for outpatient antibiotic therapy programs when the once-daily dose is sufficient, both for ease of dosing and for itNs low cost relative to newer agents. It can also be administered intramuscularly, which can be a particularly useful route in patients who lack A sensation in lower limbs or gluteal areas due to spinal cord injury. Ceftriaxone susceptibility cannot be extrapolated to cefpodoxime or cefepime. M The 2010 publication of the UTI guidelines on cystitis and pyelonephritis recommended a single dose of aminoglycoside or ceftria xone at the initiation of oral antibiotics to treat acute D pyelonephritis, if resistance to the oral agent was a concern.26 We identified one study of single dose ceftriaxone in non-pregnant adults; this study suggested that a single dose of IV ceftriaxone E prior to switching to an oral cephalosporin was an effective strategy for women with pyelonephritis.30 T Rationale for rePcommendation and implementation E The panel judged that ceftriaxone, and by extension third and fourth generation cephalosporins remaiCn one of the preferred classes of antibiotics to empirically treat patients with cUTI, particularly in patients without sepsis. If after applying the four empiric antibiotic choice steps C (severity of illness, risk factors for resistance, patient-specific factors, and antibiogram), third or fourth generation cephalosporins have not been excluded from consideration, they may be A appropriate empiric choices for patients with sepsis related to cUTI. As an example of applying the four steps, if the patient had an ESBL-producing organism in a recent prior urine culture, ceftriaxone would not be an appropriate choice for cUTI. As another example, if the prevalence of ceftriaxone resistance exceeds 10% or 20%, ceftriaxone should not be used as empiric therapy for patients with cUTI in septic shock or sepsis, respectively. 2) Piperacillin-tazobactam DOI: 10 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Piperacillin-tazobactam is an extended-spectrum penicillin and beta-lactamase inhibitor combination with
