Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


with cUTI in septic shock or sepsis, respectively. 2) Piperacillin-tazobactam DOI: 10 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Piperacillin-tazobactam is an extended-spectrum penicillin and beta-lactamase inhibitor combination with broad activity against Gram-negative organisms, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Since its approval in 1993, recommended doses of piperacillin-tazobactam have been increased to overcome rising MICs in common pathogens; for the same reason, many sites now employ extended or continuous infusion piperacillin-tazobactam dosing strategies. T P Summary of evidence for the empiric use of piperacillin-tazobactam to treat cUTI I Three randomized, controlled, multicenter, international trials included piperacillin-tazobactam as R a treatment group for cUTI, including 2,043 evaluable patients with cUTI or acute pyelonephritis (per the FDA definitions).9,21,24 The aim of these FDA registratiCon trials was to establish the efficacy of novel agents (cefepime-enmetazobactam, meropenem-vaborbactam and IV S fosfomycin) versus piperacillin-tazobactam in cUTI/acute pyelonephritis. The TANGO I study compared meropenem-vaborbactam (a noveUl beta-lactam, beta-lactamase inhibitor, or BLBLI) to piperacillin-tazobactam in 545 patients with cUTI.24 Patients received an average of N 8 days of IV therapy, followed by 2 more days of oral levofloxacin. The ZEUS study compared IV fosfomycin to piperacillin-tazobactam in 464 patients, with 7 days of IV therapy and A no oral switch options.21 In these two trials, resistance to piperacillin-tazobactam was 7% and 13%, while resistance to meropenem was 1% and resistance to the two novel drugs (IV fosfomycin and M meropenem-vaborbactam) was not reported. The ALLIUM study compared cefepime-enmetazobactam (a novel BLBLI) to piperacillin-tazobactam in 1,034 with cUTI.9 Patients also received an averaDge of 8 days of IV therapy and no transition to oral antibiotic was allowed. Patients with resistant uropathogens to either studied drugs were excluded from the E 7-14 days after end of antibiotics. T Benefits, HarmPs and Certainty of evidence Treatment wEith piperacillin-tazobactam (PT) likely leads to the similar rate of clinical cure at the test of cure timepoint as does treatment with comparators in patients treated for cUTI (overall C clinical cure for PT was 88.9% vs 91.5% for comparators; RD: -2.7%; 95% CI: -5.5% to 0.9%/ RCR: 0.97; 95% CI: 0.94 to 1.01; moderate certainty of evidence). AThe evidence suggests that piperacillin-tazobactam leads to lower microbiological cure at test of cure than the comparators. Overall, microbiological eradication for piperacillin-tazobactam was 60.8% versus 74.2% in the comparator group (RD: -14.1%; 95% CI: -17.8% to -9.6%/ RR: 0.81; 95% CI: 0.76 to 0.87). Recurrence of infection
