Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


Overall, microbiological eradication for piperacillin-tazobactam was 60.8% versus 74.2% in the comparator group (RD: -14.1%; 95% CI: -17.8% to -9.6%/ RR: 0.81; 95% CI: 0.76 to 0.87). Recurrence of infection was recorded only in one trial at late follow up. The evidence suggests that treatment with piperacillin-tazobactam leads to similar recurrence of infection rates, as compared to IV fosfomycin (3.9% with piperacillin-tazobactam versus 4.3% with fosfomycin), but this estimate is likely imprecise due to the few events. The evidence suggests that serious adverse events and mortality were comparable between the two groups (mortality rate was 0.5%). Non-serious adverse events were lower in patients receiving DOI: 11 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP piperacillin-tazobactam versus the comparators (RD: -6.6%; 95% CI: -10.4% to -2.4%/ RR: 0.86; 95% CI: 0.78 to 0.95). Other considerations T Administration of piperacillin-tazobactam requires an increasingly thoughtful approach, with improved time above the MIC for many pathogens more likely to be achieved thrPough prolonged or continuous infusion. Such dosing strategies create challenges for nursing staff, pharmacists, and I patients. Piperacillin-tazobactam is formulated as a salt and can cause hypokalemia or fluid R overload. Rising rates of ESBL-producing organisms and multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas are challenging the effectiveness of piperacillin-tazobactam. C Rationale for recommendation and implementation S U The panel judged that piperacillin-tazobactam remains one of the preferred antibiotics for empiric treatment of patients with cUTI without sepsis. If after applying the four empiric antibiotic choice N steps (severity of illness, risk factors for resistance, patient-specific factors, and antibiogram), piperacillin-tazobactam has not been excludAed from consideration, it may be an appropriate empiric choice for patients with sepsis related to cUTI. M As an example of applying the four steps, if the patient had an organism resistant to piperacillin- tazobactam in a recent prior urine culture, piperacillin-tazobactam would not be an appropriate choice for cUTI. As another Dexample, if the prevalence of piperacillin-tazobactam resistance exceeds 10% or 20%, piperacillin-tazobactam should not be used as empiric therapy for patients with cUTI in septic shockE or sepsis, respectively. T 3) Fluoroquinolones P The fluoroquinolones (FQ) have a long history in treatment of urinary tract infections, including ago.31,32 While fluoroquinolones are very useful for treating infections of the urinary tract and have C excellent oral bioavailability, they also have an important role in treating respiratory infections, bCone and joint infections, enteric pathogens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, mycobacteria, and Neisseria spp. Unfortunately, widespread use and
