Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


C excellent oral bioavailability, they also have an important role in treating respiratory infections, bCone and joint infections, enteric pathogens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, mycobacteria, and Neisseria spp. Unfortunately, widespread use and overuse of fluoroquinolones have led to both A dramatic increases in bacterial resistance and a better appreciation of these agents’ potential for serious side effects, including collagen-vascular adverse events (tendinitis, tendon, and aortic aneurysm or dissection rupture), peripheral neuropathy, central nervous system effects, hypoglycemia, QT interval prolongation, and C. difficile colitis. In 2016 the FDA issued advice that in light of the potentially severe side of effects of fluoroquinolones, these drugs should not be used to treat uncomplicated UTIs in patients who have other treatment options.33 Given the rising resistance, concern for serious toxicities, and important role quinolones play in more serious infections, many antibiotic stewardship programs have focused on reducing fluoroquinolone use in cUTI. DOI: 12 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Summary of evidence for empiric use of fluoroquinolones to treat cUTI Our literature search from 2008-2023 identified three randomized, controlled trials of empiric treatment of cUTI using a fluoroquinolone (levofloxacin).18,25,34 These were multicenter, international trials conducted to establish the efficacy of new drugs to treat cUTI (including acute T pyelonephritis) and gain FDA approval for cUTI. A total of 1,956 patients were treated for P complicated UTI/acute pyelonephritis (as defined by the FDA) in these studies, with enrollment spanning 2003-2013. The prevalence of fluoroquinolone resistance was incrIeasing during this period, and levofloxacin resistance among uropathogens isolated in theRse trials ranged 15-27% compared to 0.5-6% for the novel comparator agents, which were doripenem ,34 C ceftolozane-tazobactam (ASPECT-cUTI trial, Wagenlehner 2015),18 and plazomicin (Connolly 2018).25,35 Patients received IV antibiotics for 5-7 days; one triaSl permitted additional oral therapy with levofloxacin . Clinical and microbiologic outcomes were measured at the test of U cure (TOC) visit, 5-12 days after the last dose of antibiotics. N Benefits, harms, and certainty in the evidence A Despite the much higher resistance rates to fluoroquinolones than to the comparators, empirical treatment of suspected cUTI/acute pyelonephritis with fluoroquinolones (FQ) likely leads to lower M unimportant at a decision threshold of 10% (see Methods section on decision threshold). More D CI: -6.4% to -0.9%; RR:0.96; 95% CI: 0.93 to 0.99/ moderate certainty of evidence). E Interestingly, fluoroquinolones may lead to similar rates of microbiological cure as the comparators, but theT evidence is very uncertain.
