Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


RR:0.96; 95% CI: 0.93 to 0.99/ moderate certainty of evidence). E Interestingly, fluoroquinolones may lead to similar rates of microbiological cure as the comparators, but theT evidence is very uncertain. Microbiological cure in the FQ was 75.9% and was 79.2% in the comparator group (RD: -3.2%; 95% CI: -11.1% to 4.8%/ RR: 0.96; 95% CI: 0.86 P to 1.06). E The lower rates of clinical cure with fluoroquinolones are likely explained by the much higher C resistance rates to fluoroquinolones versus the new drugs among the isolated uropathogens. One trial performed a post-hoc analysis to analyse the subgroup of patients found to have a C fluoroquinolone-resistant pathogen in the ASPECT-cUTI trial (ceftolozane-tazobactam).35 A total Aof 212 patients mainly with acute pyelonephritis and levofloxacin-resistant uropathogens were analysed. In these patients whose baseline organism was resistant to levofloxacin, empirical treatment with levofloxacin was associated with lower rate of clinical cure at TOC (RD: -13.2%; 95% CI: -23.0% to -3.4%). Interestingly, overall response rates in these patients with levofloxacin- resistant uropathogens (i.e. regardless of antibiotic treatment) were lower than in the parent study (83% vs 90% respectively) which suggests that these patients’ infections might be more difficult to cure either due to differences in the uropathogens, differences in the patients’ risk factors for having UTI, or both. These findings are congruent with multiple observational studies suggesting DOI: 13 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP that patients infected with resistant organisms more often have comorbidities or risk factors for poor outcomes than patients with more susceptible organisms.36-39 Recurrence of infection at late follow up was reported only in one study.18 This evidence suggests that treatment with fluoroquinolones may lead to similar rates of recurrence of infection as the T comparators (6% with levofloxacin versus 14% with ceftolozane-tazobactam; RD: -8%; 95% - P 13.6% to 37.0%),18 but this estimate is likely imprecise due to the few events and a very small sample size. Serious and non-serious adverse event rates were likely comparabIle between groups. Mortality was rare (0.1%). R Other considerations C Other considerations specific to fluoroquinolones include theirS ease of administration, low cost, potential for serious adverse events, and antibiotic stewardship concerns. Fluoroquinolones have U excellent bioavailability, with the IV to oral switch being dictated by when the patient can take oral drugs rather than concerns about bioavailabilityN. Antibiotic stewardship concerns are perhaps more relevant to this class of antibiotics than others
