Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


switch being dictated by when the patient can take oral drugs rather than concerns about bioavailabilityN. Antibiotic stewardship concerns are perhaps more relevant to this class of antibiotics than others given that two recent antimicrobial resistance A surveillance reports found that approximately 30% of Enterobacterales isolates were resistant to fluoroquinolones in a national study of hospitalized patients,40 while the SENTRY report on M bloodstream isolates 2012-2017 found that 30% of E. coli were resistant to ciprofloxacin.41 Rationale for recommendation and implementation D The panel judged that fluoroquinolones remain one of the preferred classes of antibiotics to rates in patients with fluoroquinolone-resistant uropathogens, because cUTI-related mortality is T low in the absence of sepsis. If, after applying the four empiric antibiotic choice steps (severity of illness, risk factPors for resistance, practical considerations, and antibiogram), fluoroquinolones have not beEen excluded from consideration, they may be an appropriate empiric choice for patients with sepsis related to cUTI. Fluoroquinolones as a class can be very effective therapy for cUTI but C should be reserved for cases in which resistance is not expected. C As an example of applying the four steps, if the patient had taken a fluoroquinolone within the past 12 months or had a recent urine culture with a fluoroquinolone-resistant organism, a A fluoroquinolone would not be an appropriate choice for cUTI. As another example, if the prevalence of fluoroquinolone resistance exceeds 10% or 20%, fluoroquinolones should not be used as empiric therapy for patients with cUTI in septic shock or sepsis, respectively. Caution is advised in applying these recommendations because the studies with supporting evidence last enrolled patients in 2013, and the rate of resistance to fluoroquinolones has increased since that time. 4) Carbapenems (without beta-lactamase inhibitors or BLI) DOI: 14 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Carbapenems have a broad spectrum of activity and stability against many beta-lactamases, though carbapenem-resistant organisms are an increasing concern.42-44 Given carbapenems’ value as empiric therapy for suspected Gram-negative bacterial infections in the critically ill, preserving carbapenem effectiveness is a high priority for antibiotic stewardship programs. In this section, we complicated urinary tract infections (cUTIs). None of these drugs have an oral option. Discussion P of tebipenem and sulopenem (neither approved in the US at the time this passage was written) I appears elsewhere. R Summary of the evidence for empiric use of carbapenems (without BLI) to treat cUTI C We identified seven
