Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


the EPIC trial,23 in which the comparison was between meropenem and plazomicin, and the TOC visit was somewhat later DOI: 15 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP than other trials, at 15-19 days after start of therapy. Another trial driving the microbiologic cure results against carbapenems was REPRISE, in which the comparison was between ceftazidime/avibactam and best available therapy (96% of which was a carbapenem).15 Only patients with ceftazidime-resistant Enterobacteriaceae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were included in REPRISE. The third trial compared cefiderocol to imipenem-cilastatin, finTding higher microbiologic cure at the TOC in the cefiderocol group than the imipenem group (73% versus P 56%).11 If these three trials are excluded, carbapenems might not have resulted in fewer I microbiologic cures than the comparator antibiotics. R C was the EPIC trial of plazomicin,23 and the other of which studied cefiderocol as the comparator.11 In both trials clinical recurrence was measured 3-4 weeks aSfter initiation of IV therapy. The evidence suggests that treatment with carbapenems leads to more recurrence of infection than the U comparators in these two trials (8.2% vs 3.4%, respectively; RD: 6.1%; 95% CI: 1.6% to 14.8%/ RR: 2.80; 95% CI: 1.46 to 5.38). Of note, both trials also found a lower microbiologic cure rate in N the carbapenem group, potentially implying a connection between microbiologic failure and recurrence of infection; again, however, whetAher this is a causative relationship (i.e. failing to kill the bacteria in the bladder leads to recurrence) or a linked relationship along a causal pathway (i.e. persistent bacteriuria is a marker for hMost factors such as urinary retention that also increase the risk of recurrent UTI) is unclear. Mortality was rare in these rDandomized, controlled trials (0.4%), as expected given that life- threatening illness, expected imminent death, and serious comorbidities were frequent exclusion E criteria. The rates of serious and non-serious adverse events were likely comparable between groups. T Other consideraPtions Other consEiderations specific to carbapenems include their crucial role in treating severely ill patients with healthcare-associated infections or risk factors for resistant pathogens. Carbapenems C as a class are an important priority of antibiotic stewardship, to preserve their effectiveness. C Rationale for recommendation and implementation A The panel’s overall assessment of the evidence was that carbapenems provide adequate clinical cure of cUTI in all studied comparisons. Carbapenems may be inferior to some newer agents (plazomicin, ceftazidime-avibactam, and cefiderocol) for microbiologic cure and prevention
