Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


was that carbapenems provide adequate clinical cure of cUTI in all studied comparisons. Carbapenems may be inferior to some newer agents (plazomicin, ceftazidime-avibactam, and cefiderocol) for microbiologic cure and prevention of microbiologic cure is unclear. Carbapenems clearly have a role in empiric treatment of cUTI in patients with sepsis and a higher risk of mortality. In the context of increasing rate of resistance to fluoroquinolones, third and fourth generation cephalosporins, and piperacillin/tazobactam, the panel considered carbapenems to be DOI: 16 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP among the preferred antibiotics to empirically treat patients with sepsis assumed to be caused by cUTI, to avoid inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy and possible associated excess mortality. However, in patients with cUTI without sepsis, the panel judged that carbapenems are not a first- line empiric antibiotic choice due to stewardship considerations, as initial drug-bug mismatch (causative organism not susceptible to the antibiotic given) in cUTI without sepsis isT unlikely to P 5) Novel beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitors (BLBLI) I R Multidrug-resistant and difficult to treat Gram-negative uropathogens such as carbapenem- resistant Enterobacterales (CRE) uropathogens such as KlebsiellaC-pneumoniae carbapenemase- producing (KPC) E. coli, multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter spp., and S Stenotrophomonas maltophilia have increased the challenge of treating cUTIs.45 To meet this challenge, a welcome number of new drugs have been dUeveloped, including novel beta-lactams and beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations (BLBLIs). In recent years, ceftazidime-avibactam, N ceftolozane-tazobactam, imipenem-cilastatin-relebactam, meropenem-vaborbactam, and cefepime-enmetazobactam have all been approved for use in treating cUTI following one or more A FDA registrational trials. In most of these agents the novel beta-lactamase component has been designed to inhibit the activity of beta-lactamases, including certain carbapenemases. In parallel M with development of these new combination antibiotics, molecular tests to define the specific resistance genes expressed by the bacterial pathogen are also coming into widespread use. Antibiotic stewardship consideDrations suggest that the main role of novel BLBLIs currently may be in treating identified multidrug-resistant pathogens, particularly when the resistance gene or E mechanism has been established. T Summary of evidence for empiric use of novel beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitors to treat cUTI P The evidenEce for the use of novel BLBLI in treatment of cUTI include seven randomized, controlled trials, published from 2012-2023 and including 4,432 patients with cUTI (including C acute pyelonephritis). All trials evaluated the efficacy of a novel BLBLI versus a standard cUTI cComparator, including levofloxacin in the ASPECT-cUTI trial,18 carbapenems in
