Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


resistant Gram-negative infections suggests that the novel BLBLI agents be reserved for treating infectionTs caused by organisms exhibiting carbapenem resistance.5 Cost also becomes an important consideration with these agents. For example, according to the 2023 Wholesale P Acquisition Cost (WAC) database, a dose of piperacillin/tazobactam ranges in cost from $30-$156, and meropeEnem costs $30-150 per dose, while ceftolozane/tazobactam costs $1443 per dose.46 Higher costs can lead to inequities in access to these drugs, particularly if hospitals with C underserved populations do not include these drugs on their formularies. C Rationale for recommendation and implementation A The novel BLBLIs have been designed to function against specific types of antibiotic resistance, particularly carbapenemases. From an antibiotic stewardship perspective, these drugs are among the few remaining options against multidrug resistant pathogens. As such, they should be reserved for situations in which they are truly needed, such as when susceptibility testing and molecular resistance testing results are available to guide the choice of novel BLBLI. When choosing empirically (prior to culture results) to treat a patient with cUTI, the panel judged that BLBLI are not first choice antibiotics because of these antibiotic stewardship considerations. Empiric use of novel BLBLIs for cUTI should be largely restricted to patients in septic shock for whom prior culture data or risk factors suggest that preferred antimicrobials are likely to be inappropriate. DOI: 18 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP 6) Cefiderocol Cefiderocol is a novel siderophore cephalosporin brought to the periplasm by bacterial iron transporters through a “Trojan horse” strategy, a unique mechanism of delivery conferring activity against many otherwise highly resistant Gram-negative bacteria.45,47 Cefiderocol was approved by T the FDA in 2019 for treatment of complicated UTI caused by susceptible Gram-negative P microorganisms in patients who have limited or no alternative treatment options.48 Unfortunately, resistance to cefiderocol, related to changes in siderophore receptors or traIditional resistance mechanisms to cephalosporins, is already emerging. R Summary of evidence on empiric use of cefiderocol to treat cUTIC Two randomized, controlled trials were included, one of whSich focused specifically on cUTI caused by Gram-negative pathogens ,11 and the other which enrolled patients U with serious infections caused by carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative bacteria (CREDIBLE-CR trial) .10 Both trials were multiceNnter and international. The Portsmouth trial enrolled 452 patients, all with cUTI, while CREDIBLE-CR enrolled 152 patients, of which only A 36 had cUTI. The analyses below for clinical and microbiologic cure
