Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


0.24 to 1.04), P but this estimate is imprecise due to the small number of recurrences documented. I Cefiderocol likely leads to fewer non-serious adverse events than the comRparator antibiotics (RD: -11.1%, 95% CI: -18.7% to -2.5% / RR: 0.78; 95% CI: 0.63 to 0.95), but this finding was clearly C driven by a high rate of gastrointestinal disturbances in the imipenem-cilastatin group in the Portsmouth 2018 trial. Serious adverse events were frequSently reported in these studies. Cefiderocol may lead to comparable rates of serious adverse events (reported in 7.4% in the U cefiderocol group and 10.8% in the comparator group) and mortality (1.5% in the cefiderocol group versus 1.3% in the comparator group) versus the comparators. The greater overall mortality N with cefiderocol in CREDIBLE-CR appeared to be driven primarily by patients with hospital- acquired/ventilator-associated pneumonia orA bloodstream infections and by infections with Acinetobacter spp..10 M Other considerations Other considerations specific to cefiderocol are that dosing needs to be adjusted carefully D according to renal function, with increased frequency required to achieve therapeutic levels for patients on renal replacemEent therapy with augmented renal clearance (greater than 120 mL/min). As the Portsmouth 2018 trial excluded patients with creatinine clearance less than 20mL/min, the T real-world impact of the need for dose adjustment on clinical outcomes remains to be seen.11 Additionally, rePsistance to cefiderocol is already emerging. In the CREDIBLE-CR trial, 17% of enrolled patients in the cefiderocol arm received combination therapy, which may have boosted E apparent effectiveness.10 As a newer drug, the costs are expected to be higher than with older antibiCotic agents. RCationale for recommendation and implementation AThe panel judged that cefiderocol is an alternative antibiotic to empirically treat patients with cUTI but is not preferred due to stewardship considerations and uncertainties about real-world effectiveness. Care should be taken to ensure adequate dosing in patients receiving renal replacement therapy. Cefiderocol’s use may be ideally reserved for highly resistant uropathogens in which the resistance mechanism of the organism is known and should be overcome by cefiderocol (i.e. organisms with metallo-beta-lactamase carbapenemases). 7) Older aminoglycosides (gentamicin, amikacin, and tobramycin) DOI: 20 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP over the past half-century as alternative antibiotics with fewer side effects became available. As a class, aminoglycosides can cause renal impairment and ototoxicity, and these harmful effects often emerge during treatment despite optimized (i.e. once-daily) dosing. With rising rates of antimicrobial
