Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


became available. As a class, aminoglycosides can cause renal impairment and ototoxicity, and these harmful effects often emerge during treatment despite optimized (i.e. once-daily) dosing. With rising rates of antimicrobial resistance, aminoglycosides are receiving renewed interest. T P In this section we will discuss the indirect evidence for empiric use of older aminoglycosides (gentamicin, amikacin, and tobramycin) to treat cUTI. Plazomicin, the neweIst aminoglycoside, will be discussed separately. R No randomized, controlled trials of aminoglycoside monotherapy fCor empiric treatment of cUTI were published from 2008-2023; these agents were predominately tested in the last century. One S systematic review of the literature and meta-analysis included 37 randomized, controlled trials published between 1966 up to 2006, mostly in adultsU.49 These trials compared systemically administered aminoglycosides as a single drugs (monotherapy) versus another systemically N administered single antibiotic or an antibiotic combination without aminoglycosides. The aminoglycosides studied were gentamicin, amikacin, tobramycin but also netilmicin (not currently A available), and dosing was once daily in only three of these trials. The majority of the 26 UTI trials were published between 1981 and 1992 and included both inpatients and outpatients. Many of the M UTI trials had very small sample sizes (34-186 patients), and only five reported on organisms’ susceptibility to aminoglycosides. Comparator antibiotics were beta-lactam antibiotics (mostly cephalosporins) and quinoloneDs. Six of the UTI trials repoErted 30-day mortality, finding a statistically non-significant increase in mortality in the aminoglycoside arm (RR 1.96, 95% CI 0.61-6.29). Overall mortality in these T studies were very low, precluding meaningful comparisons. P Twenty of the UTI trials reported on treatment failure, finding no significant difference between groups (RRE 1.11, 95% CI 0.94-1.30). Microbiological failure at 5-9 days after end of therapy was higher in the aminoglycoside group in comparison to beta-lactams or quinolones (RR 1.40, 95% C CI 1.16-1.69). During the timeframe of these trials, the cephalosporins and quinolones were the nCewer drugs. Rates of relapse of infection were not significantly different between groups and were not reported further. A Adverse events were less often reported in the aminoglycoside group compared to the beta-lactams (RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.33-0.63), but the types of adverse events were different. Beta-lactams were associated with rash, phlebitis, gastrointestinal, and hepatic adverse events, while aminoglycosides were associated with nephrotoxicity, which was reported significantly more commonly in patients in the aminoglycoside group (RR 3.61, 95% CI 1.67, 7.80). In summary, older trials (in which cephalosporins
