Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


both studies (ranging from RD: -0.1%, C 95%CI: -0.1% to 0% / adjusted RR: 0.98; 95%CI: 0.97 to 1.00 and RD: 1.3%; 95%CI: -5.4% to 14.4% / OR: 1.14, 95%CI (0.46 to 2.81) , but these estimates are very uncertain due to the serious C risk of bias. Length of hospital stays and rehospitalization at 3 months may favor the Aaminoglycoside group in one study.51 Both studies found that patients who received aminoglycosides had fewer comorbidities, better renal function, and a better functional status than patients who received comparator antibiotics. Confounding-by-indication with residual confounding remains very likely, despite authors’ efforts to adjust for this selection bias. These clinical outcomes should be taken in the context that the patients treated with aminoglycosides were a relatively healthier group. Other considerations DOI: 22 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Aminoglycosides are now given once daily for cUTI,52 and close consultation with a pharmacist is advised to adjust the dose and interval. Serious and irreversible nephro- and ototoxicity can occur with prolonged courses of therapy. Patients receiving these antibiotics require regular assessment of renal and otic function, and therapeutic drug monitoring to determine trough levels is recommended. Aminoglycosides may not be appropriate for patients with Tunderlying impairment of renal function or hearing loss. Patients receiving IV or IM aminoglycosides as P outpatients require close monitoring. These drugs are themselves inexpensive, although the I laboratory tests add some costs. R The 2010 publication of the UTI guidelines on cystitis and pyelonephritis recommended a single C dose of aminoglycoside or ceftriaxone at the initiation of oral antibiotics to treat acute pyelonephritis, if resistance to the oral agent was a concern.26 TShis panel did not find any studies of single dose aminoglycoside as part of a combination treatment for cUTI in adults, but in practice U one or two doses of an aminoglycoside are often used as a component of the antibiotic treatment for acute pyelonephritis/cUTI when there is a concern for an ESBL-producing organism.53 N Rationale for recommendation and implementation A The panel judged that aminoglycosides are an alternative class of antibiotic for empiric treatment M of patients with cUTI, especially in populations where the ESBL rate among urinary organisms is increasing. Many patients may have contraindications to receiving aminoglycosides, such as renal insufficiency or advanced hearing loss. The panel judged that aminoglycosides are not a preferred D antibiotic for patients with cUTI with
