Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


may have contraindications to receiving aminoglycosides, such as renal insufficiency or advanced hearing loss. The panel judged that aminoglycosides are not a preferred D antibiotic for patients with cUTI with or without sepsis due to the relatively greater risk of nephrotoxicity and limiteEd modern evidence base for effectiveness versus alternative agents. 8) Plazomicin T Plazomicin is a “Pnext generation” intravenous aminoglycoside that was designed to evade bacterial aminoglycoEside modifying enzymes.45 These modifications give plazomicin activity against most Enterobacterales, including those resistant to older aminoglycosides. Plazomicin was approved by C the FDA for use in complicated UTI in 2018. As with other aminoglycosides, plazomicin can cause nephrotoxicity; the risk of ototoxicity is less clear, but a valid safety concern that needs to be C assessed in larger studies. A Summary of evidence for empiric use of plazomicin to treat cuti Two randomized, controlled, multicenter international trials compared plazomicin to another antibiotic in empiric treatment of cUTI, for a total of 744 evaluable patients.23,25 One of these studies, Connolly et al. 2018 was a phase 2 study in which 145 patients were randomized to two different doses of plazomicin or levofloxacin IV for five days, and enrollment occurred between 2010-2012.25 Resistance among the causative urinary pathogens was high, with 19% of all urinary pathogens resistant to levofloxacin, and 6% of pathogens resistant to plazomicin. Oral switch at end of therapy was not permitted. Once the trial was underway, enrollment in the lower plazomicin DOI: 23 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP treatment dose group (10mg/kg) was stopped, and all patients were subsequently randomized to the higher (15mg/kg) dose versus levofloxacin. In the EPIC trial , 604 patients were randomized to receive IV plazomicin versus meropenem for an average of five days and then were transitioned to oral agents to complete 7-10 days of therapy.23 The majority of organisms isolated were susceptible to both plazomicin and meropenem. The test of cure visit wTas at 15-19 days after starting IV therapy for the EPIC trial; the Connolly 2018 trial measured test of cure at P 5-12 days after the end of antibiotic treatment. Patients in both trials had to have good renal I function (creatinine clearance of >60 ml/min in Connolly and >30 mL/min in the EPIC trial). R Benefits, Harms and Certainty of evidence C Treatment with plazomicin likely leads to similar rates of clinical cure at TOC in patients with
