Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


Plazomicin is generally a more expensive antibiotic than the older agents. DOI: 24 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Rationale for recommendation and implementation The panel judged that plazomicin is an alternative antibiotic to empirically treat patients with cUTI but is not preferred due to concerns with potential serious adverse events associated with aminoglycosides, such as renal insufficiency or ototoxicity. T 9) Oral empiric antibiotics for cuti P I Some patients with cUTIs who are seen in an emergency department or urgent care setting with R acute pyelonephritis may be candidates for outpatient management. Similarly, patients with CAUTI seen in clinic may often be managed as outpatients. Oral third generation cephalosporins C and fluoroquinolones and TMP-SMX may be useful for empiric therapy in such cases (Table 3.1).54,55 High resistance rates to fluoroquinolones in many areSas may make these less appealing as empiric options, and adverse effects are a concern. High resistance rates are likewise a concern U with TMP-SMX, and prior urine cultures may be helpful in determining if fluoroquinolones or TMP-SMX are likely to be effective. N Although robust clinical trials of oral cephaloAsporins such as cefpodoxime as initial treatment for cUTI in adults are lacking, in practice cephalosporins are used in many settings as step-down therapy, when ESBL-production is notM a major concern.55-57 When choosing an oral cephalosporin for cUTI, both oral absorption and urinary excretion may be relevant parameters (See dosing Table 3.1) for consideration. Observational studies suggest that third generation oral cephalosporins may D be comparable to oral fluoroquinolones or TMP-SMX as step down therapy in patients with cUTI and gram-negative bacteremia.55-57 However, such studies are conflicting on whether earlier E generation cephalosporins (e.g. cephalexin), oral beta-lactams (e.g. amoxicillin and amoxicillin clavulanate), and ceTphalosporins with low bioavailability (e.g. cefdinir) are as efficacious as alternatives; these should be used cautiously and with optimized dosing.58-61 P As an examEple, in one retrospective study that included patients who received cefdinir (which has low urinary excretion of only 13-23% and low oral absorption of only 25%) and a lower dose of C cephalexin (500 mg every 8 hours), readmissions for UTI were higher in the beta-lactam group compared to those who received fluoroquinolones or TMP-SMX.59 C Amoxicillin-clavulanate and cephalexin have potentially lower efficacy as demonstrated in A multiple studies.58,60 Additionally, we did not find substantial data supporting the use of ampicillin, cefadroxil, cefaclor, or cefdinir for cUTI. Ideally,
