Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


in children, in adults relapses were higher with ceftibuten versus norfloxacin. E 10) Other antibiTotics relevant to treatment of cUTI P IV Fosfomycin E Fosfomycin is an older antibiotic agent whose susceptibility testing is complicated, not easily amenaCble to automated methods, and rarely performed. In the U.S., fosfomycin susceptibility breakpoints for fosfomycin are established only for E. coli and for Enterococcus faecalis, and only C for the oral formulation of fosfomycin. In practice, clinicians are often asked to determine whether Afosfomycin would be an acceptable treatment for other urinary pathogens, such as Klebsiella spp., but MIC breakpoints do not currently exist for non-E. coli organisms. Resistance to fosfomycin is increasing globally,89 but as this antibiotic is infrequently used in the United States, many urinary organisms retain susceptibility. Since intravenous fosfomycin is not available in the United States, fosfomycin is not an option for empiric therapy for most patients hospitalized for cUTI. Oral fosfomycin (fosfomycin trometamol) is a white powder administered as a sachet, to be dissolved in in water and then swallowed. This oral formation is available in the US and Europe and is used to treat uncomplicated UTI, or as step down therapy for patients with cUTI who are switching from IV medications to an oral agent and DOI: 27 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP whose organism is known to be susceptible to fosfomycin. Fosfomycin’s IV formulation is a calcium salt; this IV formulation is approved for cUTI for adults in Europe and Asia. Summary of evidence for empiric use of IV fosfomycin to treat cUTI T The evidence on empiric use of IV fosfomycin for cUTI comes from two randomized, controlled trials which enrolled 607 evaluable patients. The open-label FOREST trial was Pconducted in 22 hospitals in Spain and enrolled patients with bacteremic UTIs caused by MDR E. coli (Sojo- I Dorado 2022).19 Although this trial was published in 2022, the 143 evaluable patients were R enrolled from 2014-2018. The comparator in the FOREST trial was ceftriaxone or meropenem (if the causative organism was resistant to ceftriaxone), and the majorCity of patients transitioned to oral therapy after 5.5 days of IV therapy. Resistance to ceftriaxone among the MDR E. coli was S high, 57%. The ZEUS trial, published in 2019, enrolled 464 evaluable patients between 2016- 2017.21 Patients were randomized to seven days of IV fosUfomycin versus piperacillin-tazobactam in a double-blind design, with no oral
