Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


95% CI: 1.04 to 1.69), although this estimate only reflects the ZEUS trial.21 In the ZEUS trial the main non-serious adverse events were DOI: 28 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP mild and transient hypokalemia and elevated serum aminotransferases, both more frequently documented in the IV fosfomycin group. In the smaller FOREST trial, non-serious adverse events cannot be quantified between the two arms, but fosfomycin was discontinued among 6 patients due to adverse events (4 for heart failure); heart failure was reported among 6 patients treated with fosfomycin, all older than 80 years of age.19 T P Other considerations I Other considerations specific to IV fosfomycin include that the IV formulation is not available in R the United States, and susceptibility testing of fosfomycin is not routinely conducted nor reported. C Rationale for recommendation and implementation S The panel judged that IV fosfomycin is not a first line antibiotic for empiric treatment of cUTI due U to lack of availability, difficulty in conducting susceptibility testing, and concerns about adverse events, particularly sodium overload and hypokalemia. However, if available, this drug can be an N alternative antibiotic to empirically treat patients with cUTI without risk factors for resistance to fosfomycin. Caution should be taken in treatinAg patients with known, chronic heart failure with IV fosfomycin. M Colistin D colistin (the active form of the commercially available parenteral prodrug colistimethate sodium, also polymyxin E) is suggested by the IDSA guidance document on managing antibiotic resistant E pathogens as an alternative agent for treating uncomplicated cystitis caused by carbapenem- T resistant Enterobacterales or Pseudomonas aeruginosa with difficult-to-treat resistance.5 Colistin is also mentioned as a potential treatment for UTIs caused by carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter P baumannii. Colistin can cause nephrotoxicity and should rarely be used as an empiric initial E treatment for cUTI.. Polymyxin B should not be used to treat UTI because of its predominantly non-reCnal clearance. DCrugs that do not currently have FDA approval for empiric treatment of cUTI AThree antibiotics that were tested in randomized, controlled trials seeking FDA approval for a UTI indication did not succeed in receiving this approval. These three agents merit brief discussion, as it is possible that additional trials or worsening resistance will lead to their use in the future for cUTI. These three antibiotics are omadacycline, tebipenem, and sulopenem. Omadacycline is a modified tetracycline that has increased activity against some tetracycline- resistant organisms.91 Omadacycline
