Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


their use in the future for cUTI. These three antibiotics are omadacycline, tebipenem, and sulopenem. Omadacycline is a modified tetracycline that has increased activity against some tetracycline- resistant organisms.91 Omadacycline is available both orally and intravenously and is FDA approved for treatment of skin and soft tissue infections and pneumonia. Although active against E. coli, omadacycline is not active in vitro against the cUTI pathogens Morganella spp., Proteus spp., and Providencia spp. Overcash et al. conducted a phase 1 trial of omadacycline IV and/or DOI: 29 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP orally to treat acute pyelonephritis in women; 201 patients were randomized, and omadacycline was “not non-inferior” to levofloxacin (did not meet non-inferiority criteria).92 Another trial of omadacycline (IV and oral) for uncomplicated cystitis in 31 women found that 65% reported nausea, with 31% reporting vomiting.93 T Tebipenem pivoxil hydrobromide is an orally bioavailable carbapenem prodrug that is converted P to the active moiety, tebipenem, by enterocytes. Tebipenem has broad-spectrum activity against multidrug-resistant gram-negative pathogens, including ESBL-producingI Enterobacterales. Tebipenem was studied in a phase 3 trial of treatment of cUTI, witRh IV ertapenem as the comparator.94 Both groups were treated for 7 to 10 days (up to 14 days if bacteremic), and the C primary outcome was a composite “overall response” that required both clinical and microbiologic response. Overall 1,372 patients were randomized, and 868 weSre included in the microbiological intent to treat group assessed for the primary outcome. The composite success outcome was U reached by 59% in the tebipenem group versus 62% in the ertapenem group, meaning that N and 94%, for tebipenem and ertapenem respectively. However, the FDA did not issue an approval for tebipenem for treatment of UTI. A Sulopenem is a thiopenem (sulfur fused to 5-member beta-lactam ring) which is active against M ESBL-producing and Amp-C beta-lactamase producing Enterobacterales (organisms resistant to third generation cephalosporins such as ceftriaxone).95 Sulopenem has an IV and an oral formulation. The oral prodrug,D sulopenem etzadroxil, is co-formulated with probenecid to reduce renal clearance and increase systemic levels of sulopenem. A phase 3 trial in 1395 patients with E cUTI (including pyelonephritis) randomized participants to received IV followed by oral sulopenem, versus IV ertapenem followed by oral ciprofloxacin or amoxicillin/clavulanate.96 The T P stringently defined as reduction of the original pathogen to < 103 colony forming units (CFU)/mL (in contrastE to other trials using a <104 CFU/mL
