Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


ciprofloxacin or amoxicillin/clavulanate.96 The T P stringently defined as reduction of the original pathogen to < 103 colony forming units (CFU)/mL (in contrastE to other trials using a <104 CFU/mL threshold for microbiologic cure). Overall, in the modified microbiologic intention to treat or mMITT population (patients with a baseline urine C culture with >105 of an Enterobacterales pathogen susceptible to sulopenem and ertapenem), sulopenem was not non-inferior to ertapenem, with composite outcome rates of 67.8% and 73.9%, C Aresponse was lower in the sulopenem arm than the ertapenem arm (71.2% versus 78.0%). The difference in outcomes between the two treatment arms was driven primarily by presence of asymptomatic bacteriuria in the sulopenem-treated group at test of cure (day 21). Closer examination of the microbiologic failures revealed that oral ciprofloxacin was better at eliminating Enterobacterales from the urine than oral sulopenem, provided that the organisms were susceptible to fluoroquinolones (4.7% microbiologic failure with ciprofloxacin versus 21.8% with sulopenem). The results of this trial highlight the potential dichotomy between clinical cure and microbiologic response and raise the question of the clinical significance of finding bacteriuria at the test of cure visit. DOI: 30 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Other considerations Antibiotic stewardship considerations In light of antibiotic stewardship principles (i.e., “coordinated interventions designed to improve T and measure the appropriate use of [antibiotic] agents by promoting the selection of the optimal [antibiotic] drug regimen including dosing, duration of therapy, and route of admPinistration” [per IDSA guidelines]),97 we advocate for the appropriate use of more narrow-spectrum antibiotics in I patients without specific risk factors for infection caused by resistant pathogens. One meta-analysis R reported that the incidence of C. difficile infection could be reduced by lowering exposure to ‘high- risk’ antibiotics, defined as clindamycin, fluoroquinolones, and cephCalosporins, monobactams, and carbapenems.98 For empiric treatment of cUTI, avoidance of antibiotics with a broad spectrum of S activity when an agent with narrower spectrum of activity may be appropriate is aligned with principles of antibiotic stewardship. Empiric antibiotic chUoice always involves weighing antibiotic stewardship concerns versus the risk of inappropriate initial antibiotic choice. N Patients’ values and preferences A This guideline recommendation focuses on which antibiotics to choose at that critical point at which the patient with cUTI presentMs for care and the causative organism has not yet been identified (empiric antibiotic choice). Empiric antibiotics typically are continued for up to 72 hours
