Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


which the patient with cUTI presentMs for care and the causative organism has not yet been identified (empiric antibiotic choice). Empiric antibiotics typically are continued for up to 72 hours before being replaced with tailored a ntibiotics based on culture results and other emerging data. In D that context, avoiding mortality by choosing initially appropriate antibiotic therapy is the most important outcome. When expected mortality is low, consultation with the patient representatives E participating in this guidelines panel further supported that treatment (whatever the choice of empirical therapy) shTould mainly focus on achieving clinical cure. If clinical cure is expected to be similar between different treatments, additional considerations include antibiotic-associated P Reducing thEe length of hospitalization and facilitating the ease of administration were considered important, but the choice of antibiotics by itself was not a driving factor in their decision-making C process. C Costs, Resources, Feasibility and Equity A It is not possible for the guidelines panel to offer nationally generalizable direct comparisons of cUTI antibiotic costs because (at least in the United States) these costs vary widely based on the drug wholesaler and their contracts with individual pharmacies and institutions. That said, at the time of development of these recommendations, the average wholesale prices reported by the drug cost analysis tool Medi-Span ( suggests the antibiotics studied for cUTI can be categorized into three cost groups: low, medium, and high. Levofloxacin and ceftriaxone can be considered low-cost, with daily costs ranging from about $1 to about $50. Piperacillin-tazobactam and the carbapenems can be considered medium cost, with daily costs ranging from about $15 to about $150. Plazomicin, cefiderocol, and the novel DOI: 31 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP cephalosporin and carbapenem beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations can be considered high-cost, with daily costs ranging from about $500 to $1500. Thus, the potential excess cost of a 7-day course of cUTI treatment with agents other than levofloxacin or ceftriaxone is on the scale of a few hundred to a thousand dollars for piperacillin- T tazobactam or the carbapenems, or several thousand to ten thousand dollars for the novel agents. P Additionally, we consider that all of these antibiotic agents are given IV except for levofloxacin and ertapenem (which have oral and IM formulations, respectively), and thus Iwould at minimum incur additional costs in the hundreds to thousands-dollar range for admRinistration of outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy (OPAT). Finally, we note
