Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


that using a facility’s antibiogram to guide antibiotic prescribing for individual C patients improves outcomes is very uncertain. Choosing which organism to focus on in the antibiogram is also a challenge in empiric decision making. The most relevant organism is C suggested by the prior urine culture, if available. If not, E. coli is the default organism. A STKeEyP: S1e:p SsEisV isE lRifeI-TthYre aOteFn iInLgL oNrgEanS Sd y(sifnuintciatiol np rreiolarteitdi ztoa tiinofenc otiof ne,m idpenirtiifcie ad nbtyi bai oStOicF Ath erapy) score of > 2. Septic shock is defined as sepsis in which despite volume resuscitation, Inv apsaotpierenstss owrsit ahr es urespqeucirteedd a cnudt is e(irnumcl uladcitnagte pisy e>l o2n mepmhorl/iLti.s R),i sskh ofaucltdo rsse floerc trieosnis toafn et mpiric anotrigbainoitsimc sth inecrlaupdye bperi ogru uirdineed cbuyl tsuerevse rwitityh oaf rielslnisetsasn?t o rganism and fluoroquinolone exposure in the past 12 months. Patient-specific factors include allergies, contraindications, and drug- Rdercuogm inmteerancdtaiotniso.n A: n tibiogram thresholds refer to the susceptibilities of the most relevant organism(s). I. For patients with suspected complicated UTI (including pyelonephritis), we suggest that the selection of empiric antibiotic therapy be initially guided by the severity of DOI: 33 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP illness, specifically by whether the patient is in sepsis or not (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). Remarks: -Sepsis is defined per the Sepsis-3 Task Force as life-threatening organ dysfunction T caused by a dysregulated host response to infection. These patients can be identified by P 10%, or presumptively identified with screening tools such as qSOFAI or SIRS.6,99 especially after acknowledging that populations enrolled in randomized, controlled trials of C empiric antibiotic choice have lower baseline mortality than general cUTI patient populations. Clinical practice is to use broader spectrum antibiotics in sickerS patients (with the assumption that giving broader antibiotics means the empiric antibiotics are more likely to be effective against the U pathogen). Quantifying the downstream impacts of choosing the wrong initial empiric antibiotic was necessary to provide stronger evidence for this practice. To identify subpopulations in which N inappropriate antibiotic therapy has a significant impact on mortality is critical as it is one of a few factors that can be modified. A literature searcAh was performed to define the prognostic impact of inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy (IEAT) in patients with cUTI. M Prognostic Impact of Inappropriate Empiric Antibiotic Therapy (IEAT) in cUTI First, we explored the question of quantifying
