Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


prognostic impact of inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy (IEAT) in patients with cUTI. M Prognostic Impact of Inappropriate Empiric Antibiotic Therapy (IEAT) in cUTI First, we explored the question of quantifying the impact of choosing inappropriate empiric D antibiotic therapy for cUTI, stratifying by severity of illness. To summarize the findings, an increase in mortality was Eobserved in patients at high risk of mortality with cUTI receiving IEAT, with a pooled adjusted OR of 1.56 (0.99 to 2.46), as compared to patients receiving appropriate T empiric antibiotic therapy. Below we will detail how this estimate was achieved. P E METHODS C To estimate the prognostic impact of IEAT in patients with cUTI, our systematic review of the lCiterature included studies published since 2000 and studying adults with cUTI, most of whom were admitted to a hospital. Studies meeting these criteria were included if they reported the effect A of IEAT on 30-day mortality or in-hospital mortality using a multivariate analysis. These studies were necessarily observational, as ethical considerations prohibit randomizing patients to appropriate versus inappropriate initial antibiotic therapy. Empiric antibiotic therapy was defined as appropriate if the recovered pathogen in the urine culture (and/or blood culture) was susceptible in vitro to the antibiotics given before those culture results were available. For the analysis of the impact of IEAT, we focused on the outcome of mortality for two reasons: (1) mortality is the most patient-important outcome for decision making, and (2) mortality was the only outcome that was defined consistently across these studies. Note that DOI: 34 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP mortality in these observational studies was much higher (above 5%) than in the randomized, controlled trials presented above which did not require a resistant pathogen as an inclusion criterion (less than 1%). Therefore, our models assessed the impact of IEAT on mortality, which was not possible using the RCT data. T Summary of evidence P Our systematic literature review identified eight observational studies reporting the impact of I IEAT on mortality from cUTI after adjusting for other factors associated with mortality (Babich R 2017, Esparcia 2014, Holmbom 2022, Korkmaz 2020, Ortega 2013, Righolt 2020, Rodriguez- Gomez 2019, Wiggers 2019).100-107 (See Supplementary Table B1.Ca in Supplemental Materials). Three studies only included patients with bacteremia from suspected cUTI (Holmbom 2022, S Ortega 2013, Wiggers 2019).102,104,107 Two studies focused specifically on catheter-associated UTI (CAUTI) .100,104 These eighUt studies included a
