Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP The panel recognised that these estimates of the prognostic impact of IEAT on mortality in patients admitted for cUTI are very uncertain for various reasons, the most important being the serious risk of bias due to confounding by indication and residual confounding. Specifically, all cUTI studies of inappropriate antibiotic therapy were observational. Studies included in our estimate did not stratify for type of population, type of pathogen, or type of antibiotics. Reporting biTas was also judged to be very likely. We limited the evidence base to studies that included IEAT in adjusted P (multivariate) analysis of mortality, meaning that studies that found IEAT to be statistically I insignificant in the unadjusted analysis and thus did not study IEAT in multivariate analysis were R excluded from our evidence base.108-110 This reporting bias likely caused an overestimation of the effect of IEAT on mortality. These studies were heterogeneous in terCms of populations studied and statistical analyses performed. The multivariate analyses used different variables to adjust the odds S ratio from one study to another. Thus, our estimated odds ratio is very uncertain. U Uncertainty in the diagnosis of cUTI in these retrospective studies also undermines the certainty about how much IEAT contributes to mortality. If a patient actually had another condition N (particularly a non-infectious condition), the choice of antibiotics would not impact mortality. Alternatively, if patients are already very fraAil with high expected mortality or are presenting in In line with this theory, Esparcia 2014M reported that of the older adults admitted with cUTI, IEAT had a negative impact on 30-day survival only among those with a lower APACHE II score (less than 15).101 D Finally, the panel was concerned about whether these findings are generalizable to cUTI E populations at low risk of mortality (such as patients without sepsis, especially since studies not reporting mortality or low mortality rates were not included in this analysis. The panel T P with inappropriate initial empiric antibiotic therapy. 35,111 E Other supporting evidence C Our landscape analysis of the literature found indirect evidence that supported our estimated odds rCatio of 1.56 for mortality related to IEAT. Two meta-analyses addressed the question of whether inappropriate antibiotics (IEAT) were associated with mortality.112,113 One of these studies A included patients with UTI ,112 while the other did not specifically include UTI as a diagnosis, but many of the patients with gram-negative bacteremia may have
