Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


of these studies A included patients with UTI ,112 while the other did not specifically include UTI as a diagnosis, but many of the patients with gram-negative bacteremia may have had a urinary source .113 In both, IEAT was associated with an increase in mortality, and the pooled, adjusted odds ratios for mortality were 1.41 (95%CI: 1.22 to 1.61) and 1.60 (95%CI: 1.37 to 1.86) respectively. However, the studies that went into the meta-analyses were themselves observational and subject to the same biases discussed above for the studies of IEAT in patients with cUTI. Despite potential limitations in generalizing from studies including non-UTI patients, these meta- analyses further support our findings in patients with sepsis secondary to cUTI. DOI: 36 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Other considerations The urgency to provide appropriate initial empiric antibiotic therapy for patients with cUTI and sepsis or severe illness must be balanced against the potential harms of administering unnecessarily T antibiotics that would cover ESBL-producing Enterobacterales, multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas P aeruginosa, and vancomycin-resistant enterococci, the rate of IEAT would initially be very low. However, such non-discriminant overuse of antibiotics would lead to more anItibiotic side effects for the individual patients, more collateral damage to patients’ microbiRomes, increased risk of Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhea, and most critically, inevitable emergence of resistant C organisms rendering the broad-spectrum regimens less effective and leading to excess mortality from infection in future episodes of care. The tolerable level oSf risk of choosing a regimen that may prove to be ineffective thus must be determined by the patient’s severity of illness at U presentation. N Rationale for recommendation A Based on this analysis, the panel judged that inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy has differential impact on mortality in different subpopulations. In patients with cUTI at high baseline M risk of mortality (with sepsis or septic shock), inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy may increase mortality, but available data are very uncertain and likely overestimate the negative impact of IEAT. Nevertheless, indirect evidence also supports that selecting AEAT reduces D mortality in patients with severe infections (sepsis with or without septic shock). In patients with cUTI with low baseline riEsk of mortality (without sepsis), choice of empiric antibiotics might be T systematic review of the literature could not estimate excess clinical failure due to wide variation in definitions acPross studies. ConsequenEtly, the panel judged that the selection of empiric antibiotic therapy be initially
