Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


of the literature could not estimate excess clinical failure due to wide variation in definitions acPross studies. ConsequenEtly, the panel judged that the selection of empiric antibiotic therapy be initially guided by the severity of illness (specifically by stratifying whether the patient is in sepsis or not). In other C words, severity of illness can be used to guide choice of empiric antibiotic therapy for cUTI. C More specifically patients with sepsis (especially with septic shock) receiving early AEAT (which Amay require broad-spectrum antibiotics) may prevent (or avoid excess) mortality, and stewardship considerations may be deferred to definitive therapy. In patients without sepsis, antibiotic stewardship considerations may favor choosing the narrowest spectrum agent likely to provide an effective therapy (even if appropriateness of the empiric therapy remains uncertain). Implementation issues (taking it to the bedside) Defining sepsis at the bedside can be clinically challenging. The patient’s severity of illness should be determined using the established SOFA score when possible. However, data to calculate SOFA score may not be readily available in some clinical settings. Screening tools such as SIRS criteria DOI: 37 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP or qSOFA score may assist with presumptive identification of possible sepsis, though they have limitations of sensitivity and specificity.6,114,115 Note that much of the present evidence base for treatment is based on older definitions of sepsis such as SIRS criteria. SIRS criteria as a screening tool are more sensitive than specific for sepsis T and do not correlate as well with severity of illness or outcomes as the Sepsis-3 SOFA criteria.115 P As such, applying this corpus of evidence to patient care in patients identified as ‘septic’ today requires translation. I R STEP 2: PATIENT-SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS FOR RESISTANT UROPATHOGENS (optimization of coverage) C In patients with cUTI (including pyelonephritis), shouldS selection of empiric antibiotic therapy be guided by patient-specific prior urine culture results and patient-specific risk U factors for resistant uropathogens to optimize selection)? N Recommendations: A I In patients with complicated UTI (including acute pyelonephritis), we suggest avoiding antibiotics to which the patient has had a resistant pathogen isolated from the urine previously M (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence) Remarks: D -More recent urine cultures may be a better guide than more distant urine cultures. -The time frame for paired cultures (urine samples collected from the same patient at E different occasions) varied, but the median
