Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


be a better guide than more distant urine cultures. -The time frame for paired cultures (urine samples collected from the same patient at E different occasions) varied, but the median was 3-6 months. T II In patients with complicated UTI (including acute pyelonephritis), we suggest avoiding fluoroquinolones if the patient has been exposed to that class of antibiotic in the past 12 months P (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). E Remarks: More recent antibiotic exposure may be a better guide than more distant C antibiotic exposure. influenced by perceived risk factors for having a resistant pathogen, or by results from a A prior urine culture. The aim of this section is to identify patient-specific risk factors for having resistant uropathogens. STEP 2-A: Prior urine cultures as a guide to empiric antibiotic therapy In absence of evidence assessing the direct impact of selecting antibiotics based on prior urine prior urine cultures’ impact on appropriateness of antibiotic therapy in patients being treated for a current episode of UTI. Prior urine cultures’ impact on appropriateness of empiric antibiotic therapy DOI: 38 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP First, we explored the question of whether information on prior urine culture(s) should guide selection of appropriate empiric therapy for the current episode of UTI. We found that when empiric antibiotic therapy for the current UTI was concordant with the prior urine culture microbiologic data, the likelihood that the treatment would be effective against the uropathogen increased by at least 7-fold. T P Methods I We included studies that had been published between 2000 and present (2023) based on patients R presenting with any type of UTI and from any geographic location. These studies needed to report on the impact of prior urine culture on appropriateness of empiricC antibiotic therapy in patients treated for a current episode of UTI. S Summary of evidence U A total of 2 observational retrospective studies reported on the impact of prior urine culture on N appropriateness of empiric antibiotic therapy in patients treated for a current episode of UTI.62,116 Linsenmeyer at al. studAied a total of 101 patients corresponding to 126 episodes of multidrug-resistant organisms UTIs from three VA medical centers (from 2010 to 2013).62 In the 95 episodes of MDR UTMI (resistant to three or more classes of antibiotics) in which a prior urine culture was available within two years (of which 73% within 6
