Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


and can be influenced by other factors that are difficult to measure, such as local practices R remains unclear.35,111 C Other supporting evidence S U Our literature search also focused on other lines of supporting evidence: (1) predictive values of prior urine cultures in patients with paired urine cultures, and (2) prior uropathogen resistance to N a specific antibiotic as a risk factor for current resistance. Refer to Supplementary Materials for methods and more detailed results. A summaAry of results follows. 1) Predictive values of prior urine cultures for current susceptibility or resistance M A total of 4 observational studies reported on the diagnostic test accuracy of prior urine culture to predict susceptibility or resistance t o various antibiotics in patients who had at least two urine D cultures available for review (MacFadden 2014, Dickstein 2016, Vellinga 2010 and Valentine-King 2023).117- 120 The timeframe of the prior cultures varied from within four weeks to more than 32 weeks. All E these studies compared susceptibility phenotypes in the paired urine cultures, while one also T reported on the likelihood of identifying the same organism.118 All included studies reported on positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV). In the context of paired urine P cultures, PPV refers to the probability of a prior resistant culture to accurately predict future E resistance. NPV refers to the probability of a prior susceptible urine culture to accurately predict futureC susceptibility. OCverall, having a prior uropathogen that showed susceptibility to a given antibiotic was better at predicting current susceptibility than a prior uropathogen with resistance to a given antibiotic was A at predicting current resistance. NPV was higher than PPV across these studies (Supplementary Table B2B.1, Supplemental Materials). When looking at the predictive values of urine culture collected within the last 12 months, NPVs were generally above 80% (with a median NPV of 95% for fluoroquinolone, 72% for 3rd gen cephalosporins, 86% for TMP-SMX, and 98% for carbapenems), while PPVs varied greatly, ranging between 40 to 85% (with a median PPV of 76% for fluoroquinolones, 56% for 3rd gen cephalosporins, 59% for TMP-SMX, and 48% for carbapenems). When stratifying for specific antibiotics, NPVs were higher than PPVs in most cases. DOI: 40 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP We identified four factors influencing PPV and NPV across studies: prevalence of resistance,117- 120 time since prior culture,117,118,120 intervening negative culture,117,118 and antibiotic exposure
