Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


-If one prior culture TMP/SMX-R: 4.7 (3.5-6.5) to 4.78 (2.87-8.07) Up to 6 years TMP/SMX-R -If 2 or more prior culture TMP/SMX- 19.4%to 25.6% R: 5.4 (3.1-9.4) to 6.66 (2.85-17) DOI: 41 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP aOR: adjusted odds ratio; R: resistant; Cipro: ciprofloxacin; C3: third generation cephalosporins; TMP/SMX: trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole Limitations: For studies reporting on the predictive value of prior uropathogen resistance as a risk factor, many of the patient did not have a prior urine culture. The subpopulation of patients who had a prior culture (with or without a specific resistance) might be different from the rest of the cohort who did not T have a prior urine culture (i.e. population with recurrent UTI vs first episode of UTI), which could have introduced a selection bias. Furthermore, most studies were aiming at creating pragmatic algorithms P which included and adjusted for a limited number of risk factors in analyses, making these estimates more prone to residual confounding. I R Other considerations C The paired culture studies showed that NPV (susceptibility in the first culture) was predictive of susceptibility, much more strongly than PPV (resistance in thSe first culture) was predictive of resistance. However, the larger body of literature looked at risk factors from the patient’s past that U predict current resistance, not susceptibility. When a clinician is choosing an antibiotic, the cognitive choice is most commonly structured as which antibiotics to avoid because of potential N lack of effectiveness. Therefore, these recommendations concerning use of prior cultures to guide therapy are structured around prior resistanceA, to make them more feasible to implement. Rationale for the recommendation M Based on this evidence, the panel suggests avoiding antibiotics to which the patient has had a resistant pathogen isolated from the urine previously, but also recognized that other factors may D influence this decision; for example, a recent culture may provide stronger evidence to support this decision, particularly wheEn results are discordant between more distant cultures and a more recent culture. We did not find literature on predictive value of prior blood culture for current urine T culture susceptibility profile, but the panel believes that susceptibility could be extrapolated from a prior blood cuPlture collected during a cUTI. E Implementation issues (taking it to the bedside) C Many patients visit more than one healthcare system. Therefore, prior urine culture reports may not be available to the clinician treating
