Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


E Implementation issues (taking it to the bedside) C Many patients visit more than one healthcare system. Therefore, prior urine culture reports may not be available to the clinician treating the current episode of cUTI. In some cases, a discharge C summary or verbal report upon transfer of the patient to the emergency department may simply Anote that the patient had a prior ESBL producing organism, without providing specific culture results. Such information can probably be given the same weight as a prior urine culture with an ESBL-producing organism. Verbal reports of “ESBL positivity” or “KPC” can be a clue to the likely pattern of resistance to multiple antibiotics. Urine cultures in real-life scenarios can have multiple organisms or contaminants, potentially obscuring the true pathogen. Patients may have serial urine cultures that show different organisms with different resistance patterns. In such cases the overall resistance phenotype, or conversely, the overall susceptibility phenotype, is probably a reasonable guide for empiric antibiotic choice. Unfortunately, if the prior organisms have been treated with antibiotics, the possibility of a new organism emerging is real. Some patients, due to DOI: 42 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP prior antibiotic exposure, may develop infections with less common pathogens (e.g., Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Enterococcus spp.), though predicting which patients will develop UTI with these pathogens is beyond the scope of these guidelines. Patients with indwelling urinary catheters (transurethral or suprapubic) and/or neurogenic bladders have often been heavily treated for Gram- negative urinary organisms in the past and are likely to be carrying resistant GraTm-negative organisms or non-Enterobacterales organisms.124 P STEP 2-B: Risk factors of resistance to a specific antibiotic class as a guidIe to empiric antibiotic therapy R To identify patient-specific risk factors for resistant uropathogenCs that could help guide the selection of appropriate empiric therapy, we performed a systematic review of the literature aiming S at identifying the strongest predictor(s) of specific resistance(s) or resistance pattern(s), such as FQ, ESBL or TMP-SMX. U Methods N Our criteria for inclusion were that the study hAad to have been published between 2000 and present (2023) and reported on North American populations (United States, Canada, and Mexico), as risk factors of antibiotic resistance will vaMry depending on the local epidemiology. Included studies had to report on adults with cUTI, meaning that studies that were based on laboratory data only (i.e. without a confirmed clinical d iagnosis of
