Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


the local epidemiology. Included studies had to report on adults with cUTI, meaning that studies that were based on laboratory data only (i.e. without a confirmed clinical d iagnosis of UTI) were excluded. Many of the studies also D included adults with uncomplicated UTI, but the study was included as long as some of the patients had been diagnosed with cUTI. Studies needed to report on risk factors for resistance among E common Gram-negative uropathogens. Finally, studies meeting these criteria were included only if they reported adjuTsted relative risks using a multivariate analysis. For selected riskP factors to be useful in a clinical practice (i.e. develop actionable recommendations based on thEese risk factors), these needed to be specific to an antibiotic class (e.g. FQ-R, ESBL and TMP/SMX-R) rather than general (e.g. MDR). For example, if residing in a nursing home is C associated with an increased risk of resistant uropathogens but not specifically to an antibiotic class, then this risk factor is descriptive and too general to recommend avoiding a specific C antibiotic class when selecting empiric antibiotic therapy. Many factors (e.g. nursing home Aresidence, presence of indwelling urinary catheters) are associated with risk of having a multidrug resistant organism. These factors may all relate to the common pathway of healthcare exposure and thus more antibiotic exposure. Nevertheless, knowing that the patient is at higher risk for having a multidrug resistant organism does not guide the clinician at the moment of choosing specific empiric antibiotics. Due to the expected limitations intrinsic to the identified literature (see below), the panel judged that only risk factors that were strong predictors should be reported in our final analysis. We defined strong predictor as an independent risk factor (reported in at least 2 included studies) with an adjusted odds ratio (aOR) consistently greater than five across the included studies. We chose DOI: 43 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP this threshold as one at which knowing a risk factor was likely to meaningfully alter post-test probabilities of resistance to a specific antibiotic and usefully inform antibiotic selection. All risk factors reported as independently associated with resistance to a specific antibiotic were considered for further analysis (see Supplemental Materials for additional details). T Summary of evidence P Our systematic review of the literature identified a total of 16 observational studies reporting on I the various risk factors for having a urinary pathogen resistant
