Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


within the prior three months was identified as a weak predictor of having a urinary organism resistant to fluoroquinolones.39,127,130,132- T 135However, healthcare exposure is likely linked to other risk factors for having a resistant P organism (e.g. prior antibiotic exposure, comorbidities, presence of indwelling devices, and procedures). I R Our systematic review of the literature (focused on studies from North America) did not identify an association between exposure to third generation cephalospCorins and having an ESBL- producing uropathogen.125,127-129,136-138 S Certainty in the evidence U The panel recognized that these estimates on the relative risk of prior exposure of fluoroquinolones N on current fluoroquinolone resistance in patients with cUTI are very uncertain due to the high risk of bias due to study design as well as potentialA residual confounding. Interestingly, a dose-response gradient (i.e. an incremental increase in the risk of fluoroquinolone resistance with more recent exposure to fluoroquinolones) was obsMerved in one study, which supports the biologic plausibility of prior fluoroquinolone exposure as a true risk factor. Nevertheless, our certainty in the evidence remains very low. D Of note, the value of a predictive factor depends on the baseline resistance rate, thus in a setting in which the prevalence of Eresistance to a specific antibiotic class is very low or very high, these predictors would not be as discriminative. Thus, these results seem generalizable to current North T American practice but may vary with local epidemiology. P Rationale for recommendation E Based on this evidence, the panel suggests avoiding fluoroquinolones if the patient has been C exposed to that class of antibiotic in the past 12 months, but also recognized that recent exposure (Ce.g. less than 3 months) may provide stronger evidence to support this decision. AImplementation issues (taking it to the bedside) The treating clinician who has just diagnosed a patient with cUTI may not have information about the patient’s prior antibiotic exposures, particularly if the patient visits more than one healthcare system or is coming from a long-term care facility. Even if the patient is within the same healthcare and their caregivers may not be able to identify specific antibiotics or the timeframe during which they were prescribed. Another important consideration is that the recommendation to consider fluoroquinolone exposure as a risk factor is drawn from literature in which the prevalence of fluoroquinolone resistance ranged from 10 to 45%. If local prevalence of fluoroquinolone DOI: 46 Downloaded from
