Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


exposure as a risk factor is drawn from literature in which the prevalence of fluoroquinolone resistance ranged from 10 to 45%. If local prevalence of fluoroquinolone DOI: 46 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP resistance among urinary E. coli is higher than 45%, then the absence of prior exposure to fluoroquinolones cannot be taken as evidence that the patient’s current urinary organism will be susceptible to fluoroquinolones. STEP 3: OTHER PATIENT-SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS (prevention of possible T undesirable events) P In patients with cUTI (including pyelonephritis), should selection of empiric antibiotic I therapy be further guided by patient-specific considerations? R Recommendation: C I. In patients suspected of cUTI, empiric antibiotic therapy selection should account for S patient-specific considerations (e.g. risk of allergic reaction, contraindications, or U drug-drug interactions) to avoid preventable adverse events (good practice statement). N ΩzGuidelines cannot fully capture individual considerations. As a best practice, clinicians should take into account an individual patient’s specific considerations. Such considerations should A consider the patient’s antibiotic allergy history, contraindications to receiving specific antibiotics, and potential drugs-drug interactions when selecting among the preferred and/or alternative M options for empiric antibiotic therapy. Common sense suggests avoiding an antibiotic which the patient was taking when the current symptoms developed, or one which the patient took very recently. D STEP 4: ANTIBIOGRAM (tailoring empiric antibiotic therapy in septic patients) E In patients with cUTTI (including pyelonephritis), should selection of empiric antibiotic therapy be further tailored by consulting an antibiogram? P Recommendations: E I CIn patients with sepsis assumed to be caused by complicated UTI (including acute pyelonephritis), we suggest using an antibiogram to further tailor empiric antibiotic choice only if C the antibiogram is local, recent, and relevant to the patient (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence). A Remarks: -An antibiogram is considered local if derived from the same healthcare facility, recent if based on data from the prior 12 months and relevant to the patient if based on organisms from a similar patient population. -If an antibiogram is being used to further tailor empirical antibiotic choice, consider selecting an antibiotic for which 90% or more of the most relevant organism(s) are susceptible in patients in septic shock, or for which 80% or more of the most relevant DOI: 47 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP organism(s) are susceptible in patients with sepsis without shock. These cutoffs are based on modeling
