Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


more of the most relevant DOI: 47 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP organism(s) are susceptible in patients with sepsis without shock. These cutoffs are based on modeling of increased mortality risk associated with inappropriate empiric antibiotics in sepsis and septic shock. -Septic shock is defined by the Sepsis-3 Task Force as a subset of sepsis in which T despite volume resuscitation, vasopressors are required to maintain blood pressure and P than 40%.6,99 I R I For patients with suspected complicated UTI without sepsis (including acute pyelonephritis), we make no specific recommendation about using aCn antibiogram to further tailor empiric antibiotic choice (no recommendation, knowledge gap). S Remarks: U -Patients who are not septic have a lower risk of mortality from cUTI (less than or equal to 5%) and initial inappropriate empiric antibioNtic choice has little impact on mortality. Routine use of broader-spectrum agents in suspected complicated UTI without sepsis may A drive antimicrobial resistance without substantial patient benefit. Based on the review of the literature, the panel identified a lack of evidence about applicability of M antibiograms to individual patients, particularly those with cUTI, and whether use of an impact of applying an antibiogram-based threshold for predicted susceptibility of a uropathogen D to an empiric antibiotic choice, with the outcome of the modeling being excess mortality due to IEAT. E The panel judged thaTt the use of an antibiogram for choosing empirical therapy for an individual patient with cUTI should be restricted to patients with sepsis for the following reasons: (1) The P antibiogram’s value in guiding antibiotic choice for an individual patient is unproven, particularly when the oErganism itself is not known. (2) Modeling for use of the antibiogram to avoid excess mortality due to inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy (IEAT) was relevant only to patients with C an expected mortality of 10% or higher. (3) Antibiograms need to meet certain standards to be uCseful, and the general practitioner is unlikely to know how the facility’s antibiogram was constructed. A Modeling for impact of using antibiogram thresholds on excess mortality Our analysis of eight studies that compared mortality outcomes with IEAT and AEAT found a pooled odds ratio of 1.56 increased mortality with IEAT (see IEAT section above). This estimate of 1.56 is likely an overestimate because studies that did not find IEAT to be a significant factor in mortality were not included in our modeling. The
