Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


above). This estimate of 1.56 is likely an overestimate because studies that did not find IEAT to be a significant factor in mortality were not included in our modeling. The panel judged that a reasonable susceptibility threshold for choosing an antibiotic to use for a patient with cUTI and sepsis or septic shock should confer no more than a 1% risk of excess mortality due to IEAT. In other words, the panel judged that the tolerable level of excess mortality risk should be less than one per 100 patients treated. DOI: 48 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP Using this odds ratio of 1.56, the threshold for avoiding 1% increased mortality in septic shock is to choose an antibiotic for which at least 90% of the relevant organism are predicted to be susceptible. If the patient is septic but not in shock, the threshold to avoid a 1% increase in mortality is to choose an antibiotic for which at least 80% of the relevant organism are predicted to be susceptible. See Table S7 in the supplemental materials. T P For patients with cUTI with a low baseline mortality (5%), the choice of empiric antibiotics might be influenced more by clinical failure than mortality (as excess mortalitIy is so unlikely). both the definition of clinical failure and the study populations varied substantially across studies. C another included microbiologic persistence in the outcome of Sclinical failure. Other considerations when using an antibiogram to gUuide empiric antibiotic choice in individual patients N While patient-specific risk factors help define if a given patient may have a urinary organism that A is resistant to one or more antibiotics, the local antibiogram may not necessarily apply to an individual patient.139 For example, if a patient has recently been living in a different state, or M If the patient is undergoing chemotherapy and has been hospitalized multiple times recently, the outpatient antibiogram may not be relevant, even if the patient is presenting for care in an D outpatient setting. Antibiograms derived from hospitalized patients may not be relevant to primary care settings. ApplicationE of an antibiogram at the point of care can be difficult when the causative organism is not known. In a patient with recurrent infections or another recent infection, the T patient’s microbiological history and antibiotic exposure may provide more relevant information than a facility-wPide antibiogram.139 As an illustration of these concerns, a
