Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


the threshold to avoid a 1% increase in N mortality is to choose an antibiotic for which at least 80% of the isolates of relevant organism are predicted to be susceptible. These thresholds were established based on the current literature on A inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy and mortality, which yielded an odds ratio of 1.56 (95% CI of 0.99-2.46), indicating uncertainty related to the imprecision of this estimate. Newer literature M and changes in this estimate may require recalculation of the thresholds; these guidelines establish a method for doing such calculations. (See Table S7 Supplemental Materials). The increased mortality threshold judged by Dthe panel as the acceptable upper limit (1% excess mortality, or 1 per 100 patients) was selected by consensus and is not informed by direct research on patient or E clinician values. The applicability of these thresholds to real-world antibiotic appropriateness and their impact on clinical outcomes remains to be established and would be a suitable topic for future T research. P For patients with suspected complicated UTI without sepsis (including acute pyelonephritis), the E panel does not make a specific recommendation about using an antibiogram to further tailor empirCic antibiotic choice. In patients whose risk of mortality from cUTI is less than or equal to 5%, initial inappropriate empiric antibiotic choice may delay recovery, lengthen hospitalization, C or reduce the likelihood of clinical cure but has little predicted impact on mortality through our modeling. A Implementation issues (taking it to the bedside) To guide antibiotic choice for a patient with sepsis from cUTI, the clinician would ideally be able to use a locally developed antibiogram that addresses the relevant patient population (e.g. ICU) and/or has a focus on urinary pathogens. Determining which organism to focus on in the antibiogram represents an additional challenge. The most relevant organism is suggested by the prior urine culture, if available. For example, if the prior urine culture had an ESBL-producing Klebsiella species, consult the antibiogram for effective therapy for ESBL-producing Klebsiella. DOI: 50 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP In the absence of prior culture information, the panel suggests defaulting to the susceptibilities of E. coli when making an empiric choice of antibiotics for cUTI. The advent of rapid tests for antibiotic susceptibilities directly from urine may greatly reduce the role of the antibiogram in empiric antibiotic choice. T These guidelines are designed to avoid excess mortality through inappropriate
