Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


tests for antibiotic susceptibilities directly from urine may greatly reduce the role of the antibiogram in empiric antibiotic choice. T These guidelines are designed to avoid excess mortality through inappropriate empiric antibiotic P therapy, but not to provide 100% coverage of all organisms that could possibly grow from the urine of a patient with cUTI or bacteremia of a urinary source. The healthcaIre clinician should apply individual judgment to considerations of whether the patient isR likely to have a non- Enterobacterales organism (e.g. Enterococcus spp. or Pseudomonas aeruginosa) or a highly C resistant urinary pathogen based on prior cultures and antibiotic exposures. S C. SELECTION OF DEFINITIVE ANTIBIOTIC THERAPY FOR COMPLICATED UTI In patients with microbiologically confirmed cUTI, Ushould definitive effective antibiotic therapy be targeted based on the results of urine culture rather than continuing empiric N broad-spectrum antibiotics? A Recommendation: I. In patients with confirmed Mcomplicated UTI, we suggest selecting a definitive effective antibiotic with a targeted spectrum based on the results of urine culture (identification and susceptibility) as soo n as these are available, rather than continuing empiric broad- D spectrum antibiotics for the complete duration of treatment (conditional recommendation, low certainty of the evidence). E Comment: T -ThiPs recommendation places a high value on de-escalating antibiotic therapy based on culture results (stewardship considerations) while optimizing the effectiveness of E therapy (improving clinical cure and reducing recurrence of infection). De-escalation Cmay be less practical in cases of cUTI managed in the outpatient setting. BCalance of Benefits and Harms and non-serious events) as well as other considerations regarding costs/resources between targeted spectrum and broad spectrum-antibiotics are equivalent, then the remaining considerations mainly relate to stewardship issues. Other considerations and stewardship issues As mentioned above, the selection of definitive therapy should involve a consideration of the appropriate route of therapy (oral versus intravenous), the costs of different antibiotic treatment options, and the resources required to administer various antibiotic regimens (e.g. two IV DOI: 51 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP antibiotics can cost the same per dose, but one may require administration three times per day, while the other is given once daily). Some antibiotics require therapeutic drug monitoring or pharmacist involvement to adjust dosing. Burden on patients and hospital staff are additional considerations. The antibiotic stewardship goal is usually to choose a more targeted antibiotic with the fewest collateral effects on the intestinal microbiota, when the susceptibility
