Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


and hospital staff are additional considerations. The antibiotic stewardship goal is usually to choose a more targeted antibiotic with the fewest collateral effects on the intestinal microbiota, when the susceptibility profTile supports such a choice. P De-escalation (switching from broad to narrow agents) may not be practical Iin some situations, particularly when a patient with cUTI has been discharged with oral antiRbiotics to complete their treatment course. For example, the benefit of changing an oral third generation cephalosporin to a C narrow-spectrum, first-generation cephalosporin for a few days of remaining therapy may be marginal. Also, calling patients to make this switch would rSequire additional effort from the healthcare team, could confuse and inconvenience the patient, and might leave the patient with U leftover antibiotics at home. N Rationale for recommendation A In patients with confirmed complicated UTI, we suggest selecting a definitive effective antibiotic with a targeted spectrum based on the results of urine culture as soon as these are available, rather M than continuing empiric broad-spectrum antibiotics for the complete duration of treatment (conditional recommendation, low certainty of the evidence). This recommendation places a high value on deescalating antibiotic therapy based on culture results (stewardship considerations) D while optimizing the effectiveness of therapy (improving clinical cure and reducing recurrence of infection). Whether a fewE days of a more targeted agent in comparison to a broad-spectrum regimen confer individual or global benefits in terms of antibiotic resistance is unclear, but T tailoring the antibiotic regimen is a cornerstone principle of antibiotic stewardship.142 P Implementation issues (taking it to the bedside) E Following up on the urine culture results is particularly important for patients managed for cUTI C in the outpatient setting, to confirm susceptibility and switch to an effective antibiotic if needed.143 A patient who has been diagnosed with and treated for cUTI may subsequently have a negative C urine culture. When the clinician lacks culture evidence to guide antibiotic tailoring, the patient’s Aclinical picture can be a guide. Patients who are improving on broad-spectrum, intravenous antibiotic therapy may be good candidates for transitioning to a more focused treatment regimen and for consideration of switch to an oral agent if resistant pathogens are not isolated. Conclusions and research needs Conclusions Many of the classes of antibiotics approved to treat cUTI demonstrate similar efficacy as other classes of antibiotics in randomized, controlled trials. Bacterial resistance prevalence is always DOI: 52 Downloaded
