Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


Many of the classes of antibiotics approved to treat cUTI demonstrate similar efficacy as other classes of antibiotics in randomized, controlled trials. Bacterial resistance prevalence is always DOI: 52 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP changing, and new antibiotics will be developed. In this context, the panel developed a four-step process for choosing empiric antibiotic therapy for cUTI that will potentially outlast the table of specific antibiotic choices. These steps are: 1) assess the severity of illness (for initial prioritization of antibiotics), 2) consider patient-specific risk factors for resistant uropathogens (for optimization of coverage), 3) evaluate other patient-specific considerations (to reduce the riskT of adverse events), and 4) for patients with sepsis, consult a relevant local antibiogram if available (to further P improve the likelihood of giving appropriate empiric therapy). The panel also developed a I modeling approach to predict the impact of inappropriate empiric antibiotic therapy on mortality R in cUTI that can be updated with new data as this emerges. However, the panel believes that the and evaluating which drug may suit the patient best will continue to be relevant to guiding S treatment of cUTI. U Research needs N Whether or not microbiologic cure is a patient-relevant outcome is unclear. For the patients that have clinical cure but microbiologic failure (persistence of greater than 104 count-forming- A unites/ml of bacteria in the urine at the test of cure time point), we know that such patients are at higher risk of clinical UTI by long term follow up. These patients presumably have asymptomatic M know is whether treating the bacteriuria will reduce their risk of subsequent UTI. D To address this issue, a randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded trial would need to enroll patients randomize them to antibiotic treatment versus no treatment. Ideally the follow up period for T recurrent UTI would be extended beyond 30 days after the last dose of antibiotics, out to one year, as antibiotic treaPtment could paradoxically increase the risk of recurrent UTI (rUTI) by disrupting the microbiome. Ideally this study would also perform molecular typing of the urinary organisms E to see if rUTI is caused by the same or different organisms. C Little attention is given in the literature to determining whether men with febrile UTI have acute pCrostatitis. A systematic study of the signs and symptoms of prostatic involvement in men with UTI could help better define prostatitis as a
