Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: patients, cuti, antibiotic, empiric, therapy, antibiotics, resistance, prior, studies, evidence, risk, mortality, treatment, patient, uti


whether men with febrile UTI have acute pCrostatitis. A systematic study of the signs and symptoms of prostatic involvement in men with UTI could help better define prostatitis as a clinical entity and thus facilitate detection of this A condition in cUTI trials. Another key research need is how to manage UTI in transgender adults. There is insufficient research on transgender and gender diverse individuals to inform guidelines and an urgent need for more research in this area. Nearly 1.6 million people ages 13 and up in the United States identify as transgender or have gender diverse experience. No clinical data exists to describe the epidemiology and risk factors for UTI in transgender and gender diverse individuals. We do not know if gender affirming therapy with hormonal treatment increases or decreases the risk of UTI. DOI: 53 Downloaded from by guest on May ACCEPTED MANUSCRIP samples and collect appropriately inclusive gender demographics on participants.144 The 2010 UTI guidelines on cystitis and pyelonephritis recommended one dose of aminoglycosides (or ceftriaxone) in patients with acute pyelonephritis who would otherwise be T treated with entirely oral therapy, if there was concern for possibly having an organism resistant P to the oral agent. This strategy should be explored in a RCT comparing a single dose or short course of aminoglycoside to placebo at the start of outpatient therapy for cUTII. R Finally, we need more data to define the role of the antibiogram in choosing empiric therapy for cUTI. Ideally this topic would be addressed in an RCT in which cliCnicians made empiric choices guided by an antibiogram or not guided by an antibiogram. The question of whether an antibiogram S is relevant and helpful to choosing an empiric antibiotic treatment regimen for an individual patient with cUTI is an open one. The modeling strategy Uused in determining the antibiogram susceptibility thresholds to guide empiric antibiotic choice in cUTI patients with sepsis could be N tested in a real-world study to determine the value of such thresholds at improving clinical outcomes. Research on how to use rapid molecular testing to identify urinary organisms and A susceptibility at the point of care is needed, as injudicious use of such tests may drive overtreatment and overly broad antibiotic use. M
