Disorders of Adrenal Glands and Sex Development in Children: Insights from the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, syndrome, children, case, pediatr, sex, disorders, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, free, insufficiency, article, free article, dsd


ABSTRACT The adrenal gland is essential for survival and its function is compartmentalized into specific zones. Disorders of the adrenal gland can be classified as those affecting the adrenal cortex or medulla. Pediatric adrenal disorders can have distinct presentations and etiologies in comparison to adults, such as adrenal insufficiency associated with genetic syndromes or Cushing’s syndrome associated with adrenocortical tumors and primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) has been commonly reported from the tropics, and rare variants of CAH have also been recognized in populations where consanguinity is prevalent. Pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGL) have been reported from tropical countries, some with rare presentations. The frequent rate of heritability and mutations in PPGL highlights the importance of genetic studies among children. The role of functional imaging is evolving for PPGLs as data is emerging from cohort studies. Disorders of Sex Development (DSD) comprise a heterogeneous group of disorders that can present in any age group. DSDs in childhood usually present with ambiguous genitalia and a multidisciplinary approach is required for its management. The diagnosis of adrenal disorders can sometimes pose a challenge in tropical countries due to resource constraints, lack of awareness, and access to medical care. However, available data from cohort studies and case reports have highlighted differences in etiology and presentation as compared to other parts of the world and the need for further studies. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . ADRENAL DISORDERS Adrenal disorders commonly seen in the tropics include adrenal insufficiency, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, adrenal Cushing’s syndrome, and pheochromocytoma/paragangliomas. Adrenal Insufficiency It is characterized by decreased production of cortisol by the adrenals. The identification of adrenal insufficiency in children requires a high index of suspicion. This is important not only to prevent an adrenal crisis but to identify the associated comorbidities. Acute adrenal crisis can present in infancy as a salt-wasting crisis or precipitated in children due to stressors such as illness, trauma, or surgery. They often present as an emergency with abdominal pain, vomiting, hypotension, hypoglycemia with seizures, and hyponatremia which eventually leads to shock and cardiovascular collapse if undiagnosed. Chronic adrenal insufficiency presents as prolonged neonatal jaundice, failure to thrive, hyperpigmentation, anorexia, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, salt craving, diarrhea, abdominal pain, postural hypotension, and tachycardia. A study from Pakistan characterized the presentation of children with adrenal insufficiency of which 19% presented
