Disorders of Adrenal Glands and Sex Development in Children: Insights from the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, syndrome, children, case, pediatr, sex, disorders, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, free, insufficiency, article, free article, dsd


anorexia, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, salt craving, diarrhea, abdominal pain, postural hypotension, and tachycardia. A study from Pakistan characterized the presentation of children with adrenal insufficiency of which 19% presented with an adrenal crisis following an acute illness ( 1 ). The chronic symptoms reported were not different from that seen in another cohort form South Africa ( 2 ). Rare primary presentations of adrenal insufficiency as infantile cholestasis ( 3 ) and gigantism with motor delay have been reported ( 4 ). The causes of adrenal insufficiency in children are different as compared to adults. Etiologically it can be divided into primary and secondary adrenal insufficiency. It can also be seen as an isolated condition or in association with specific syndromes. Primary adrenal insufficiency may be related to an underlying genetic or metabolic cause. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH) is the most common cause of primary adrenal insufficiency. Autoimmunity, infections, and hemorrhage are also important causes of primary adrenal insufficiency. The largest cohort study from Sudan diagnosed 80 children with adrenal insufficiency. The etiology ranged from Allgrove syndrome (36%), auto-immune polyendocrinopathy syndrome (11%), adrenoleukodystrophy (9%), bilateral hemorrhage (1%), to unspecified (42%) ( 5 ). Case reports and series also reported similar causes such as Allgrove syndrome ( 6 - 8 ), adrenoleukodystrophy ( 9 ), to rare causes such as familial primary glucocorticoid deficiency ( 3 ), Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) deficiency ( 10 ), Nuclear receptor subfamily 0, group B, member 1 (NR0B1) gene or DAX1 gene mutation ( 11 ) as well as primary multidrug-resistant adrenal tuberculosis ( 12 ). The diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency is made by a peak cortisol value less than 18 mcg/dl on ACTH (Synacthen) stimulation test. A raised plasma ACTH level confirms primary adrenal insufficiency. The dose of Synacthen recommended for children less than 2 years is 15 µg/kg body weight and for children more than 2 years 250 µg im. However, Synacthen is not easily available in many countries. Acton Prolongatum, a long-acting synthetic ACTH preparation of the 39-amino acid native porcine sequence in a carboxymethylcellulose base has been studied and validated in India for the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency in children > 5 years ( 13 ). Table 1. Acton Prolongatum (ACTH Stimulation) Test View in own window Indication To diagnose adrenal insufficiency * Preparation Injection Acton Prolongatum® Ferring pharmaceuticals (Saint Prex, Switzerland) is available as a 5-mL vial with
