Disorders of Adrenal Glands and Sex Development in Children: Insights from the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, syndrome, children, case, pediatr, sex, disorders, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, free, insufficiency, article, free article, dsd


11βOHD was more common (66.6%) followed by 21OHD and as well from Algeria (n=273) which showed that 3βHSD2 (5%) was the second most common form after 21OHD. These differences may be attributed to the founder mutations ( 22 , 23 ). Diagnosis is made by screening for 17 OH Progesterone (OHP) which is elevated, followed by 17 OHP and other steroid responses to synacthen test. However, confirmation of specific enzyme deficiency requires genetic testing. The spectrum of genetic mutations has been described in various cohorts for CYP21A2, which was able to diagnose mutations in 80-96% of the subjects, and genotype-phenotype correlations have been established for various forms of CAH ( 24 - 27 ). Additionally, allele-specific PCR for screening common CYP21A2 mutations has been suggested as a cost-effective tool, especially in resource-constraint settings ( 28 ). The diagnosis of other enzyme deficiencies is often challenging due to a lack of genetic tests and steroid precursor assays. However, studies are emerging for other CAH variants such as 11βOHD from India ( 29 ) and 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 (3βHSD2) deficiency from Algeria ( 23 ) with the discovery of novel mutations indicating genetic heterogeneity. Combined genetic mutations have also been reported ( 30 ). A child diagnosed with CAH requires lifelong treatment and monitoring. A longitudinal data from Egypt indicated that CAH subjects with older age, poor hormonal control, and frequent hospitalizations have relatively poorer health-related quality of life. The challenges faced in the management of CAH include late diagnosis, poor follow-up ( 31 ), and the development of adrenal rest tumors ( 23 , 29 ). Cushing Syndrome Cushing syndrome is suspected in a child who presents with weight gain and growth failure. The characteristic cushingoid features described in adults are usually not seen and they often present with generalized obesity. Endogenous Cushing syndrome varies with the age of diagnosis with adrenal tumors predominating in children < 7 years and Cushing disease after 7 years. However, it is important to note that the most common cause of Cushing’s syndrome is exogenous and even topical routes of administration have been implicated in children ( 32 - 34 ). Of the ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome, primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) has been the most frequently described from the tropics in case series and reports some of which have been found in association with Carney’s complex ( 35 - 39 ). The other important
