Disorders of Adrenal Glands and Sex Development in Children: Insights from the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, syndrome, children, case, pediatr, sex, disorders, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, free, insufficiency, article, free article, dsd


most frequently described from the tropics in case series and reports some of which have been found in association with Carney’s complex ( 35 - 39 ). The other important cause reported is in association with Adrenocortical tumors as described below. Adrenocortical Tumors These tumors account for 0.2% of all pediatric tumors. The largest case series from India with 17 cases reported that 82% presented with endocrine dysfunction, of which the most common was Cushing syndrome with or without virilization seen in 53% of the subjects ( 40 ). Another cohort of 7 children from Sri Lanka also reported peripheral precocious puberty in all the subjects and one boy had the phenotypic features of Beckwith–Wiedemann syndrome ( 41 ). Case reports have also reported similar presentations some of which are the rare variants of adrenocortical oncocytoma ( 42 - 49 ). Large non-functioning adrenal cortical carcinoma can present with mass effects without any features ( 40 , 50 ). The prognosis depends on the diagnosis with adenomas having complete remission. However, the prognosis of subjects with carcinoma was poor ( 40 ) ( 41 ). Pheochromocytomas and Paragangliomas Pheochromocytoma (PCC) refers to the catecholamine-producing tumor of the adrenal medulla whereas paragangliomas (PGL) are extra-adrenal tumors of sympathetic and parasympathetic ganglia. Of the PPGLs, 10-20% occur in the pediatric age group. There is a high rate of germline mutations and heritability in pediatric PPGLs. A cohort of 30 children from India with PPGL showed that 26.7% of the subjects had syndromic or familial association, of which Von Hippel-Lindau was the most common. Fourteen (46.7%) children had germline mutations (VHL 10 (33.3%), SDHB 2 (6.6%), and SDHD 2 (6.6%). Bilateral pheochromocytomas and symptomatic presentation was more frequent in children as compared to adult PPGL. Children with VHL mutation had more frequent bilateral PCC, coexisting PGL and recurrence ( 51 ). PPGLs often mimic other diseases and rare presentations such as myocarditis ( 52 ), diabetes insipidus ( 53 ), hypertensive encephalopathy ( 54 ) ( 55 ), Cushing syndrome ( 56 ), pseudo renal artery stenosis ( 57 ), and papilledema ( 58 ) have been described. After biochemical confirmation, imaging studies are advised for anatomical localization. Functional imaging is recommended for larger tumors, suspected multifocal or extra adrenal tumors, succinate dehydrogenase subunit B (SDHB) or alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked mutations (ATRX) and dopamine secreting PPGLs. A cohort study from India revealed
