Disorders of Adrenal Glands and Sex Development in Children: Insights from the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, syndrome, children, case, pediatr, sex, disorders, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, free, insufficiency, article, free article, dsd


larger tumors, suspected multifocal or extra adrenal tumors, succinate dehydrogenase subunit B (SDHB) or alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked mutations (ATRX) and dopamine secreting PPGLs. A cohort study from India revealed that 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT (95%) had a higher sensitivity than 18F-FDG-PET/CT (80%) and 131I-MIBG (65%) for overall lesions. 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT was more sensitive than 131I-MIBG (93 vs. 42%) for detecting metastases ( 59 ). The definitive management of PPGL is surgical resection. Pre-operative preparation with experienced anesthetic ( 60 ) and surgical team ( 61 ) is important for successful outcomes following surgery. The management of metastatic PPGL is challenging especially in countries with limited resources. Fractionated low dose 131 I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) therapy has been used in the treatment of metastatic paraganglioma ( 62 ). Lifelong surveillance is recommended in children to detect early recurrence ( 63 ). DISORDERS OF SEX DEVELOPMENT (DSD) DSD is a condition in which chromosomal, gonadal, or anatomical sex is atypical ( 64 ). Observational studies from Egypt and Cameroon reported that these constitute 2-9.4% of the subjects presenting to endocrine clinics ( 65 , 66 ). Epidemiology DSDs can be broadly classified into sex chromosomes, 46 XX and 46 XY DSDs. Cohort studies have revealed a prevalence of 5-15% for sex chromosomal DSDs, 33.7-71% for 46 XY DSD, and 24-51% for 46 XX DSD ( 65 - 67 ). Regional differences were observed in the prevalence of these disorders attributed to consanguinity and endogamous marriages ( 66 ). Table 2. Classification of DSDs View in own window SEX CHROMOSOME DSD 46 XY DSD 46 XX DSD Turner’s syndrome (and 45X variants) Disorders of testis development Complete testicular dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome) Partial gonadal dysgenesis Testicular regression Disorders of ovarian development Gonadal dysgenesis Ovotesticular DSD RSPO gene mutation NR5A1 gene mutation Testicular DSD SRY+ SOX9/SOX3 duplication WNT 4 mutation Klinefelter’s syndrome (and 47XXY variants) Disorders of androgen synthesis STAR mutation CAH 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase P450 oxidoreductase Isolated testosterone deficiency 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 5α-reductase 2 Androgen excess CAH 21-hydroxylase 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 P450 oxidoreductase 11β-hydroxylase Glucocorticoid receptor mutations Maternal Virilising tumors Exogenous androgens Mixed gonadal dysgenesis Ovotesticular DSD Disorders of androgen action Androgen insensitivity syndrome Luteinizing hormone receptor defects Others Mullerian agenesis (MRKH syndrome) Uterine abnormalities Syndromic associations (cloacal exostrophy) Others Persistent mullerian duct syndrome Complex syndromic disorders Isolated hypospadias Clinical Features DSDs have a varied presentation which includes ambiguous genitalia of varying severity, primary amenorrhea, and virilization
