Disorders of Adrenal Glands and Sex Development in Children: Insights from the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, syndrome, children, case, pediatr, sex, disorders, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, free, insufficiency, article, free article, dsd


(cloacal exostrophy) Others Persistent mullerian duct syndrome Complex syndromic disorders Isolated hypospadias Clinical Features DSDs have a varied presentation which includes ambiguous genitalia of varying severity, primary amenorrhea, and virilization at puberty to infertility in adulthood. The recognition of DSDs has critical implications due to their syndromic associations such as Wilm’s tumor and renal failure with Denys-Drash syndrome, adrenal insufficiency with CAH, and future risk of gonadoblastoma. In addition, there are long-term social and psychological impacts such as gender of rearing and fertility prospects. 46. XY DSD 46 XY DSD can be classified as disorders of testis development, androgen synthesis, or androgen action. The most common DSD reported among these are disorders of androgen synthesis of which 5 alpha reductase deficiency is the most commonly reported with a prevalence of 10%- 33% with a presentation as ambiguous genitalia ( 65 - 68 ). The higher rates reported in recent literature are attributed to the genetic confirmation some of which are novel and founder mutations, as opposed to the earlier diagnosis based on biochemical ratios of Testosterone: Dihydrotestosterone ( 69 - 71 ). Rare variants of CAH with presentation as infertility, hypertension, or virilization been reported ( 15 , 72 - 74 ). Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS); partial (PAIS) or complete (CAIS) is the next most commonly reported 46 XY DSD from various countries with a prevalence of 5-28% ( 65 - 67 , 75 , 76 ). However, cohort studies with genetic confirmation reported a prevalence of 10-38% ( 77 , 78 ). A point to be noted was that only 31% of patients with a provisional diagnosis of PAIS had pathogenic variants in the AR gene ( 78 ). Patients with CAIS are reared as females and have a later presentation with primary amenorrhea. The presentation of PAIS may be earlier with atypical genitalia or gynecomastia. The third most commonly reported cause is gonadal dysgenesis which can be partial or complete with a prevalence of 4-10% ( 65 - 67 , 79 ), Case reports of gonadal development disorders with dysgenesis are also emerging which include WT-1 mutation ( 80 - 82 ), Desert hedgehog (DHH) gene ( 83 ), and Mitogen‐activated protein 3 kinase 1 ( MAP3K1 ) gene ( 84 ). Other rare causes such as persistent Mullerian duct syndrome ( 85 , 86 ) and Leydig cell hypoplasia ( 87 ) have been reported from the
