Disorders of Adrenal Glands and Sex Development in Children: Insights from the Tropics
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adrenal, syndrome, children, case, pediatr, sex, disorders, endocrinol, adrenal insufficiency, free, insufficiency, article, free article, dsd


gene ( 84 ). Other rare causes such as persistent Mullerian duct syndrome ( 85 , 86 ) and Leydig cell hypoplasia ( 87 ) have been reported from the Middle-eastern countries. Syndromic causes of 46 XY DSD accounts for 1-1.8% of the cohort studies cited earlier. 46. XX DSD In contrast to the 46 XY DSDs which can have variable presentation and etiology, the most common cause of 46 XX DSD is CAH of which 21 hydroxylase deficiency is the most common cause. However, Sap et al from Cameroon reported 11 hydroxylase was the most common cause of CAH in their population ( 66 ). The prevalence of 46 XX DSD ranges from 20%-55% ( 65 - 67 ). The other important causes of 46 XX DSD are ovotesticular DSD (16.2%) and vaginal atresia (2%). Rare case reports of aromatase deficiency ( 88 ) and isodicentric Y chromosome in 45 X individuals have been reported ( 89 ). Management The diagnosis and management of DSDs are challenging, especially in countries with low resources. The most important step in the initial evaluation of ambiguous genitalia is the presence of gonads which gives us a clue in narrowing the cause and guiding further workup. Karyotyping, imaging by pelvic USG or MRI, followed by biochemical evaluation helps in establishing a diagnosis. The emergence of genetic tests has further simplified the evaluation of such patients and will prove to be a valuable tool in the future. Diagnosis of DSD and gender assignment has lifelong implications for the patients. There have been reports of gender change and gender identity confusion especially in 46 XY DSDs ( 90 - 92 ). However, patients with AIS have less prevalence of gender dysphoria ( 77 , 92 ). For 46 XX DSDs with virilization, feminizing genitoplasty is an important concern especially the timing of surgery. An observational study from Malaysia of 59 females with CAH who had undergone feminizing genitoplasty (FG) reported that infancy and early childhood as the best timing for first FG, most preferring single-stage over 2-stage surgery ( 93 ). Data regarding the risk of gonadoblastoma and prophylactic gonadectomy is scarce. A case series of 5 subjects of 46 XY DSD reared as females revealed malignancy in only one patient with CAIS ( 94 ). REFERENCES 1. Laghari TM, Ibrahim MN, Khoso Z, Hanif MI, Meher-Un-Nisa null, Raza J. Spectrum of Addison’s Disease in
