Case Report
KEYWORDS: pneumoniae, infection, abscess, klebsiella, doi, liver, klebsiella pneumoniae, brain, patient, hvkp, psh, case, infect, abscesses, liver abscess


A Case of Klebsiella pneumoniae infection Xuefang Liu1, Ning Yu1, Huaihai Lu1, Yinlong Zhao1, Junyu Zhu1, Ya Liu1 Shijiazhuang, China Abstract Introduction: In recent years, hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae (hvKp) has attracted increasing attention. It usually causes liver abscesses, which spread through the bloodstream to other parts such as the eyes, brain, lungs. 5.5% of all paroxysmal sympathetic hyperactivity syndrome are associated with infection, hydrocephalus, brain tumors, and some unknown causes. Younger patients with focal lesions of the brain parenchyma are at higher risk of paroxysmal sympathetic hyperactivity (PSH). Case presentation: This case report details the clinical features of Klebsiella pneumoniae diagnosed in a healthy individual. In addition to liver abscesses, bacteremia, and hyperglycemia, there are also brain abscesses, hernias, and postoperative paroxysmal sympathetic hyperactivity, an unexpected association between diseases or symptoms. The patient stabilized after comprehensive treatment, including early drainage of abscesses, rapid pathogen diagnosis, and timely and appropriate antibiotics. At a two-month follow-up, no signs of infection recurrence were noted, and the patient regained neurological function and could participate in regular physical activity. Discussion: Symptoms of Klebsiella pneumoniae infection usually appear gradually, and misdiagnosis is common. When young patients suddenly develop high fever and abscess at a particular site, Klebsiella pneumoniae infection should be considered routine. Paroxysmal performed when clinical features appear. Early diagnosis and treatment can improve the prognosis. Key words: Klebsiella pneumoniae; invasive liver abscess syndrome; central nervous system infection; paroxysmal sympathetic hyperactivity. J Infect Dev Ctries 2024; 18(6):972-977. doi: (Received 05 June 2023 – Accepted 31 July 2023) distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. Introduction Although the exact pathogenesis of hvKp remains Klebsiella pneumoniae (K. pneumoniae) is a Gram- unclear, many studies have shown that hvKp initially negative, gas-producing Enterobacterium that is widely colonizes the gastrointestinal tract and preferentially present in nature and belongs to the normal flora of the infects other organs, primarily the liver . Therefore, human mouth and intestine . K. pneumoniae purulent liver abscess formation is the main symptom infection occurs mainly in patients with compromised of K. pneumoniae infection, mostly in diabetic patients host defenses and is usually hospital-acquired. . Invasive liver abscess syndrome with metastatic Hypervirulent K. pneumoniae (hvKp), first identified in infection caused by K. pneumoniae is associated with Taiwan in 1986, belongs to part of the high morbidity and mortality . In these distal Enterobacteriaceae family and is increasingly seen metastatic
