Case Report
KEYWORDS: pneumoniae, infection, abscess, klebsiella, doi, liver, klebsiella pneumoniae, brain, patient, hvkp, psh, case, infect, abscesses, liver abscess


caused by K. pneumoniae is associated with Taiwan in 1986, belongs to part of the high morbidity and mortality . In these distal Enterobacteriaceae family and is increasingly seen metastatic infections, brain abscesses caused by hvKp worldwide , that is the leading cause of community- are considered to be secondary to blood-borne acquired suppurative liver abscesses, which are often transmission from prior bacteremia, which can lead to life-threatening and associated with a wide range of brain herniation and is a life-threatening disease. PSH clinical symptoms . is a relatively common but not yet recognized In 2012, Fang et al. proposed a case definition complication of acute diffuse or multifocal brain of invasive liver abscess syndrome: K. pneumoniae disease. Infectious factors related to PSH accounts for liver abscess with extrahepatic complications, less than 5.5%. PSH may lead to unnecessary testing especially involving the central nervous system or and sometimes inappropriate treatment. Adjustment of endophthalmitis. Invasive K. pneumoniae liver abscess supportive care and appropriate medical intervention syndrome presents primarily as a single pathogen liver can often greatly alleviate the condition . severe hvKp infection with PSH reported and the first Liu et al. – Klebsiella pneumoniae infection with PSH J Infect Dev Ctries 2024; 18(6):972-977. patients. examination of the face, chest, and abdomen was unremarkable. Cervical resistance was positive, and the Case report left limb muscle strength grade IV and the right limb A 35-year-old male was admitted to the emergency muscle strength grade V were noted. His temperature, fever for six days and three days of gibberish without recorded as 36.2 °C, 79 beats per minute, and 130/80 any symptoms prior to the headache. Since the onset of mmHg, respectively. Laboratory investigations were as headache, his temperature was 39.9 °C. The patient follows: peripheral blood white blood cell count, 9.49 × treatments. He gradually deteriorated and started procalcitonin, 0.96 ng/mL; ESR, 75 mm/hour; lactic gibberish speech. The family member complained of no acid, 1.51 mmol/L; intravenous blood glucose, 13 Figure 1. The characterization of brain abscesses. A. Low-density shadows with a maximum cross-sectional area of 4.15 × 2.71cm and a CT value of 18Hu by Head CT; B. Multiple lesions of the suprudine right subdural, bilateral frontal- parietal lobes, right basal ganglia, temporal occipital lobe, left shift of midline structure by Head MR diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI); C. Large amounts of pus at the subdural; D. Pus was removed and bacteriologically examined.
