Case Report
KEYWORDS: pneumoniae, infection, abscess, klebsiella, doi, liver, klebsiella pneumoniae, brain, patient, hvkp, psh, case, infect, abscesses, liver abscess


ganglia, temporal occipital lobe, left shift of midline structure by Head MR diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI); C. Large amounts of pus at the subdural; D. Pus was removed and bacteriologically examined. Liu et al. – Klebsiella pneumoniae infection with PSH J Infect Dev Ctries 2024; 18(6):972-977. mmol/L; HbA1c, 10.5%. Head CT findings exhibited lesions of the suprudine right subdural, bilateral frontal, low-density shadows with a maximum cross-sectional parietal lobes, right basal ganglia, temporal, occipital area of 4.15 cm × 2.71 cm and a CT value of 18 Hu that lobe, and left shift of midline structure (Figure 1B). suggested marked ischemic injury in the right temporal Physical examination revealed gradual deterioration in occipital lobe, which were considered to signify foci of consciousness. Right frontotemporal top desuppression infection (Figure 1A). Blood cultures were collected and subdural pus drainage were subsequently from two sites before initiating antibiotics, and performed. During surgery, large amounts of pus at the cerebrospinal fluid was collected through lumbar subdural were observed (Figure 1C). Pus was removed puncture for metagenomic Next-Generation and bacteriologically examined (Figure 1D). After Sequencing (NGS). Bacterial smears revealed the debridement, the patient was transferred to ICU for presence of gram-negative bacteria. further treatment. The patient was ventilated and insulin Hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae produced was administered to maintain blood glucose stability. brain abscesses, bacteremia, and liver abscesses, Metagenomic NGS testing of cerebrospinal fluid accompanied by paroxysmal sympathetic hyperactivity. revealed Klebsiella pneumoniae, the number of The patient's condition rapidly deteriorated. Head MR microbial nucleic acid sequences detected in the diffusion-weighted imaging（DWI）revealed multiple sample: 538, and 2g of Meropenem was given intravenously at 8-hour intervals. Further search for the source of the brain abscess, abdominal computed Figure 2. The characterization of liver abscess by abdominal computed tomography. tomography showed multiple lesions of the left lobe of the liver, consistent with liver abscess manifestations, so invasive K. pneumoniae hepatic abscess syndrome was considered (Figure 2A). Ultrasound-guided hepatic abscess puncture and drainage was subsequently performed (Figure 2B). K. pneumoniae was found in blood culture and pus samples. In vitro drug susceptibility test of Meropenem was sensitive. Signs of PSH, including increased heart rate, elevated blood pressure, fever, dystonia, and rapid breathing, occurred 1 week after surgery. The PSH-AM score was 21 points, and morphine, diazepam, clonidine, propranolol, gabapentin, and bromocriptine were administered to control sympathetic nerve excitement symptoms. Enhanced CT examination showed that the right parietotemporal occipital lobe and left
