Case Report
KEYWORDS: pneumoniae, infection, abscess, klebsiella, doi, liver, klebsiella pneumoniae, brain, patient, hvkp, psh, case, infect, abscesses, liver abscess


21 points, and morphine, diazepam, clonidine, propranolol, gabapentin, and bromocriptine were administered to control sympathetic nerve excitement symptoms. Enhanced CT examination showed that the right parietotemporal occipital lobe and left frontal lobe low- density shadow expanded compared with the previous range, and the inner ring enhancement changes were visible in the right occipital lobe (Figure 3A). The right occipital lesion was more significant, and infection (brain abscess) was considered. The patient’s condition stabilized after intensive treatment, and he recovered after several punctures and drainage (Figure 3B). The patient and his family returned to the local hospital for further treatment. At two months of follow-up, no infectious recurrence affecting any previously infected organs was noted, and the bone flap was returned. His neurological function recovered, modified Rankin Scale (mRS) 0 points, and he could participate in regular physical activity. Discussion HvKp strains frequently infect younger, healthy A. Multiple lesions of the left liver lobe; B. Ultrasound-guided hepatic individuals in the community, unlike (“common”) non- abscess puncture and drainage. Liu et al. – Klebsiella pneumoniae infection with PSH J Infect Dev Ctries 2024; 18(6):972-977. hvKp strains that mainly affect immunocompromised analysis samples should be sent for early detection of and hospitalized patients . Moreover, it can lead to pathogens. Diabetes mellitus is one of the most infections in the other tissues, such as endophthalmitis, common underlying diseases, and higher glucose levels meningitis, brain abscesses, lung abscesses, prostate impair neutrophil adhesion, chemotaxis, phagocytosis, abscesses, and soft tissue infections [7,12-17]. and bactericidal activity which is an independent risk Therefore, we should be alert to the presence of hvKp factor for hvKp infection . Head CT findings in if a young patient develops an abscess in a particular the case revealed a brain abscess (Figure 3A). Abdomen symptoms, and laboratory features are used to this case, had no history of diabetes. However, the determine the diagnosis of hvKp infection, and then perfect glycosylated hemoglobin after admission was > rapid diagnosis and immediate treatment should be 9%, indicating that the patient with persistent given once the diagnosis is definite. Before antibiotic hyperglycemia may develop diabetic nephropathy, administration, we recommend that microbiological arteriosclerosis, cataract, and other complications, which are independent risk factors for hvKp infection. Figure 3. The characterization of brain abscess by computed It was considered that the patient had diabetes, which tomography. was ignored due to a lack of monitoring. K. pneumoniae liver abscess often
