Case Report
KEYWORDS: pneumoniae, infection, abscess, klebsiella, doi, liver, klebsiella pneumoniae, brain, patient, hvkp, psh, case, infect, abscesses, liver abscess


The characterization of brain abscess by computed It was considered that the patient had diabetes, which tomography. was ignored due to a lack of monitoring. K. pneumoniae liver abscess often causes septic embolism and also increases the risk of intracerebral hemorrhage . PSH is a relatively common but unrecognized complication of acute diffuse or multifocal brain disease, most commonly found in young, comatose patients with severe traumatic brain injury . Previous studies have shown a small number of PSH occur in patients with infection and other diseases, and only one study reported a high rate of PSH in critically ill pediatric patients with meningoencephalitis and encephalitis. The pathophysiology of PSH remains unclear. Proposed mechanisms include heightened activity of diencephalic or brainstem sympathoexcitatory regions due to direct activation or disinhibition (release phenomenon) secondary to loss of cortical and subcortical control . In this case, imaging showed that the patient had a brain abscess, multiple lesions on the head, repeated and sudden tachycardia, hypertension, sweating, and sometimes fever and dystonia postures, which were consistent with score was > 17 . Prompt and adequate treatment includes adequate puncturing and drainage, reducing any external stimuli that may trigger seizures, reducing the likelihood of secondary complications such as dehydration, weight loss, malnutrition, and muscle contractures, and eventually, the patient recovered well in neurological function without residual sequelae. We present this rare case to draw clinicians' attention to this emerging invasive syndrome and accompanying abnormal clinical manifestations worldwide. This case illustrates that aggressive K. pneumoniae infection is a rapidly progressive disease that requires urgent A. The right parietotemporal occipital lobe low-density shadow expanded diagnosis and treatment and that its accompanying were made by enhanced CT examination; B. Brain abscess puncture and drainage. diagnosis and treatment to improve the prognosis. Liu et al. – Klebsiella pneumoniae infection with PSH J Infect Dev Ctries 2024; 18(6):972-977. Conclusions References pathogens: epidemiology, taxonomy, typing methods, and infection diagnosed in an otherwise healthy individual pathogenicity factors. Clin Microbiol Rev 11: 589-603. doi: presenting with headache, fever, and impaired . consciousness. Head DWI revealed multiple lesions of 2. Nassif X, Sansonetti PJ (1986) Correlation of the virulence of the head, and multiple pus subdural were visible in Klebsiella pneumoniae K1 and K2 with the presence of a surgery for brain herniation. Thus, it is essential to plasmid encoding aerobactin. Infect Immun 54: 603-8. doi: . consider the diagnosis of hvKp infection after
