Medications for Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: patients, orally, day, heparin, pci, risk, used, given, use, hours, bleeding, therapy, nitroglycerin, variable, acs


Treatment of acute coronary syndromes (ACS) is designed to relieve distress, interrupt thrombosis, reverse ischemia, limit infarct size, reduce cardiac workload, and prevent and treat complications. An ACS is a medical emergency; outcome is greatly influenced by rapid diagnosis and treatment. Treatment occurs simultaneously with diagnosis. Treatment includes revascularization (with percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass grafting, or fibrinolytic therapy) and pharmacologic therapy to treat ACS and underlying coronary artery disease. Medications used depend on the type of ACS and include Aspirin, clopidogrel, or both (prasugrel or ticagrelor are alternatives to clopidogrel if fibrinolytic therapy has not been given) Beta-blocker Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor for certain patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and high-risk lesions (eg, high thrombus burden, no reflow) A heparin (unfractionated or low molecular weight heparin) or bivalirudin (particularly in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction [STEMI] who are at high risk of bleeding) IV nitroglycerin (unless low-risk, uncomplicated myocardial infarction) Fibrinolytics for select patients with STEMI when timely PCI unavailable Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (as early as possible) Statins Antiplatelet and antithrombotic drugs, which stop clots from forming, are used routinely. Anti-ischemic drugs (eg, beta-blockers, IV nitroglycerin) are frequently added, particularly when chest pain or hypertension is present (see table Medications for Coronary Artery Disease). Fibrinolyticsshould be used if not contraindicated for STEMI if primary PCI is not immediately available but worsen outcome for unstable angina and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). Chest pain can be treated with nitroglycerin or sometimes morphine. Nitroglycerin is preferable to morphine, which should be used judiciously (eg, if a patient has a contraindication to nitroglycerin or is in pain despite nitroglycerin therapy). Nitroglycerin is initially given sublingually, followed by continuous IV drip if needed. Morphine 2 to 4 mg IV, repeated every 15 minutes as needed, is highly effective but can depress respiration, can reduce myocardial contractility, and is a potent venous vasodilator. Evidence also suggests that morphine interferes with some P2Y12 receptor inhibitors. A large retrospective trial showed that morphine may increase mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction (1, 2). Hypotension and bradycardia secondary to morphine can usually be overcome by prompt elevation of the lower extremities. Blood pressure (BP) is normal or slightly elevated in most patients on arrival at the emergency department; BP gradually falls over the next several hours. Continued hypertension requires treatment with antihypertensives, preferably IV nitroglycerin, to lower BP and reduce cardiac workload. Severe
