Medications for Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: patients, orally, day, heparin, pci, risk, used, given, use, hours, bleeding, therapy, nitroglycerin, variable, acs


agents. All patients are given aspirin 160 to 325 mg (not enteric-coated), if not contraindicated (eg, life-threatening active bleeding), at presentation and 81 mg once a day indefinitely thereafter. Chewing the first dose before swallowing quickens absorption. Aspirin reduces short- and long-term mortality risk (1). If aspirin cannot be taken, clopidogrel 75 mg orally once a day or ticlopidine 250 mg orally twice a day may be used. Clopidogrel has largely replaced ticlopidine for routine use because neutropenia is a risk with ticlopidine, and the white blood cell count must be monitored regularly if patients are taking ticlopidine. Patients not undergoing revascularization Patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in whom intervention is not possible or recommended are given both aspirin and clopidogrel (or ticagrelor) for at least 12 months. In general, the concern with dosage and duration of antiplatelet agents is to balance the decreased risk of coronary thrombosis with the increased risk of bleeding. Patients undergoing revascularization In patients undergoing PCI, a loading dose of clopidogrel (300 to 600 mg orally once), prasugrel (60 mg orally once), or ticagrelor (180 mg orally once) improves outcomes (1). Some clinicians give a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor during PCI to all high-risk patients (eg, those with markedly elevated cardiac biomarkers, a TIMI risk score ≥ 4, or persistent symptoms despite adequate pharmacologic therapy) with large thrombus burden. The GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor is continued for 6 to 24 hours, and angiography is done before the infusion period is over. GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors are not recommended for patients receiving fibrinolytics. Abciximab, tirofiban, and eptifibatide appear to have equivalent efficacy, and the choice of agent should depend on other factors (eg, cost, availability, familiarity). For patients receiving a stent for revascularization, aspirin is continued indefinitely. Clopidogrel 75 mg orally once a day, prasugrel 10 mg orally once a day, or ticagrelor 90 mg orally twice a day should be used for at least 1 month in patients with a bare-metal stent. Patients with a drug-eluting stent after ACS have a prolonged risk of thrombosis and benefit from up to 12 months of clopidogrel (or prasugrel or ticagrelor) treatment. Anticoagulant Agents Either a low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), unfractionated heparin, or bivalirudin is given routinely to patients with acute coronary syndrome unless contraindicated (eg, by active bleeding or planned use of streptokinase or anistreplase). Choice of agent depends on whether revascularization is anticipated, as well as other
