Medications for Acute Coronary Syndromes
KEYWORDS: patients, orally, day, heparin, pci, risk, used, given, use, hours, bleeding, therapy, nitroglycerin, variable, acs


PCI, post-procedure heparin is no longer recommended unless patients are at high risk of thromboembolic events (eg, patients with large anterior MI, known LV thrombus, atrial fibrillation), because postprocedure ischemic events have decreased with the use of stents and antiplatelet agents. For patients not undergoing PCI, heparin is continued for 48 hours (or longer if symptoms persist). 12/17 Heparin alternatives The difficulties with the heparins (including bleeding complications, the possibility of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, and, with unfractionated heparin, the need for dosing adjustments) have led to the search for alternative anticoagulants. The direct thrombin inhibitors, bivalirudin and argatroban, may have a lower incidence of serious bleeding and improved outcomes, particularly in patients with renal insufficiency (hirudin, another direct thrombin inhibitor, appears to cause more bleeding than the other agents). Bivalirudin is an acceptable alternative to unfractionated heparin for patients undergoing PCI who are at high risk of bleeding. The factor Xa inhibitor fondaparinux reduces mortality and reinfarction in patients with NSTEMI who undergo PCI without increasing bleeding but has no clear benefit compared with unfractionated heparin in patients with STEMI (1). Although routine use of these alternative anticoagulants is thus not currently recommended, they should be used in place of unfractionated heparin or LMWH in patients with a known or suspected history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. For patients who require anticoagulation for another reason (eg, atrial fibrillation), direct-acting oral anticoagulants (apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban) are preferred long term over warfarin, unless there is a contraindication to them. For most patients requiring anticoagulation, triple therapy with oral anticoagulation, a P2Y12 inhibitor, and aspirin is continued up to 1 week to 1 month after intervention, and then patients are continued on oral anticoagulation and a P2Y12 inhibitor for 6 months to 1 year. Calcium channel blockers and nitrates may also be given to reduce risk of coronary spasm. Beta-Blockers Beta-blockers are recommended unless contraindicated (eg, by bradycardia, heart block, hypotension, or asthma), especially for high-risk patients. Beta-blockers reduce heart rate, arterial pressure, and contractility, thereby reducing cardiac workload and oxygen demand. Infarct size largely determines cardiac performance after recovery. Oral beta-blockers given within the first few hours improve prognosis by reducing infarct size, recurrence rate, incidence of ventricular fibrillation, and mortality risk (1). Heart rate and BP must be carefully monitored during treatment with beta-blockers. Dosage is reduced if bradycardia or hypotension develops. Excessive adverse effects may be reversed by infusion of the beta-adrenergic
