Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


been forming potential foci regarding the realization of the risk (Eisen & published (Hansford et al., 2017; Klemola et al., 2019; Kowalec Eisen, 2016; Sonenshine & Roe, 2014). As such, studying the dif- et al., 2017; Maetzel et al., 2005; Oechslin et al., 2017; Rizzoli ferences in potential human-tick contacts between urban green et al., 2014; Schorn et al., 2011; VanAcker et al., 2019; Žákovská spaces and nonurban areas can help in assessing whether urban et al., 2008). Overall, these reports suggest that viable tick pop- green spaces should be focused on in intervention campaigns aim- ulations are common in urban green spaces and that the diversity ing to reduce tick-borne diseases . and prevalence of TPBs in these areas are comparable to those For identifying areas where ticks carrying pathogens contact measured in nonurban areas. Indeed, while habitats within cities many humans, estimates of human activity are also needed (Eisen are often spatially restricted and less interconnected than those & Eisen, 2016; Sonenshine & Roe, 2014). Unfortunately, assess- in more natural areas, suitable host species can nevertheless fre- ing human activity at specific locations is challenging. In Finland, quently be found from urban green spaces (Faeth et al., 2011; two different kinds of data are publicly available that may serve as McKinney, 2008; Rizzoli et al., 2014). Furthermore, human activ- proxies for human activity: national population census data (pop- ity is highest in cities, comprising not only of daily activities of ulation density estimated in 1 × 1 km grids; Statistics Finland) and residents, but also visiting tourists. Given the recorded presence visitor count data (visitor numbers from specific localities, such of ticks and TBPs as well as high densities of humans in cities, con- as national parks and popular outdoors areas). These data have tacts between infected ticks and humans may be particularly fre- their strengths and weaknesses and cannot be straightforwardly quent therein . However, the rates of contact substituted or compared. Visitor count data can provide accurate with infected ticks in urban green spaces remain inadequately estimates of human visits to locations that are frequently used for quantified. outdoor activities but is only available for certain sites. Population A tick poses a health risk only if it carries a zoonotic pathogen. density provides an estimate of the numbers of humans living Consequently, tick-borne disease risk has often been measured as next to areas inhabited by infected
