Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


it carries a zoonotic pathogen. density provides an estimate of the numbers of humans living Consequently, tick-borne disease risk has often been measured as next to areas inhabited by infected ticks, but the movement pat- the density of ticks infected with a particular pathogen (entomolog- terns or activity of residents cannot be determined from the data ical risk index) . For Ixodes ricinus, nymphs are (Fischhoff et al., 2019; Kjær et al., 2019). However, these data the major vectors for human infections, as they are more numerous provide valuable information on potential human activity in areas in nature and more difficult to detect when attached to the body inhabited by infected ticks. Consequently, observing what they than adults, while simultaneously carrying several TBPs at rela- can reveal about the locality-specific potential for infection risk tively high prevalence (as opposed to larvae). Consequently, den- conversion (from potential to realized risk) is likely a worthwhile sity of infected nymphs (DIN) has been used as a key measure for pursuit. entomological risk regarding I. ricinus, similarly to Ixodes scapularis In this study, we examine the risk of encountering an infected in the United States (Diuk-Wasser et al., 2012; Eisen & Eisen, 2016; tick in the urban green spaces of Helsinki, the capital of Finland Jaenson et al., 2009; Mather et al., 1996; Robertson et al., 2000; (population ~650,000 in the city, ~1,170,000 in the metropolitan Sonenshine & Roe, 2014; Tälleklint & Jaenson, 2014). However, region). Furthermore, we integrate population census and visitor 824 | SORMUNEN Et al. count data to identify areas with a high potential for (infected) Kumpula, Laakso, Lauttasaari, Lehtisaari, Meilahti, Seurasaari and tick-human contacts. Specifically, we study (a) the occurrence and Töölönlahti (Figure 1). Land cover classes (Figure 1a), vegetation activity of I. ricinus in urban green spaces of Helsinki, (b) the prev- characteristics (Figure 1b) and landscape configurations (Figure 1c) alence and diversity of pathogens in collected nymphs, (c) connec- vary within and between the studied sites. Dragging was conducted tions between locally diagnosed cases of borreliosis and observed once a month at each study site, with 500–1,000 m2 dragged in DIN, and (d) differences in the potential for infected tick-human 10 m2 subsections each month. The exact distance dragged at each contacts between urban green spaces of Helsinki and nonurban site during any single excursion depended on available time and areas in south-western Finland. weather, as well as
