Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


dragged at each contacts between urban green spaces of Helsinki and nonurban site during any single excursion depended on available time and areas in south-western Finland. weather, as well as local tick densities (generally less dragged in high density areas). Dragging spots were chosen separately for each ses- sion, based on the operator's assessment of suitable tick microhabi- 2 | MATERIALS AND METHODS tats, and covered varied areas and biotopes within the study sites. In general, patches of coniferous, deciduous or mixed forests were 2.1 | Field collections preferred for sampling. The drag consisted of a white 1 m × 1 m linen cloth attached to a wooden pole, with a weight sewn to the poste- Ticks were collected by cloth dragging from May to September rior end of the cloth. Ticks were collected from the cloth with twee- in 2019 at nine study sites in Helsinki: Hakuninmaa, Lapinniemi, zers after each 10 m drag and stored in ethanol-filled Eppendorf FIGURE 1 Corine Land Cover (CLC2018; (a) and natural difference vegetation index (NDVI; (b) maps for the Helsinki region, the study sites and sampling locations within the region (c1- c9), and the location of Helsinki in Finland (c10). The land cover classes are visualized in (a) according to the 1st level CLC2018, with the exception of urban green area (level 3, class 141). The false-colour aerial photographs visible in panel c were also used to quantify the NDVI. We derived CLC2018 from the Finnish Environment 2020, from National Land Survey Finland. Note that the yellow circles in study site maps (c1-c9) do not represent specific dragging spots, but rather the general areas where dragging was conducted. Sampling locations are c1 Hakuninmaa; c2 Lapinniemi; c3 Kumpula; c4 Laakso; c5 Lauttasaari; c6 Lehtisaari; c7 Meilahti; c8 Seurasaari; and c9 Töölönlahti [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary. com] SORMUNEN Et al. | 825 tubes. The tubes were then delivered to the Zoological Museum 2.3 | Assessments of tick risk at the University of Turku for morphological species identification (Estrada-Peña et al., 2018b) and laboratory analysis of pathogens. For assessing the risk of infection by tick-borne pathogens (hence- To facilitate comparisons between the urban green spaces of forth infection risk), density of infected nymphs (DIN) regarding BBSL Helsinki and other, nonurban areas, we calculated DIN for a set was calculated for the study sites in Helsinki, as well as for the sites in
