Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


nymphs (DIN) regarding BBSL Helsinki and other, nonurban areas, we calculated DIN for a set was calculated for the study sites in Helsinki, as well as for the sites in of nonurban study sites located in south-western Finland using south-western Finland. This was done by multiplying site and study previously collected tick density and pathogen prevalence data month/year-specific nymph densities with site and study month/ (Sormunen et al., 2016,2020). As with the study sites in Helsinki, year-specific BBSL prevalence. For study sites in Helsinki, DIN was dragging environments at these sites were highly variable, but con- calculated for each individual 10-metre drag, and these were then sisted mainly of coniferous, deciduous or mixed forests. Human used as independent samples in statistical analyses. Correlations inhabitation in the proximity of these sites is very sparse and the between monthly DIN in Helsinki and estimated tick activity based proportion of built-up area low, as opposed to the study sites in the on data regarding primary Lyme borreliosis (erythema migrans) cases current study. Furthermore, several study sites were located on from Helsinki were tested by correlation analysis [disease case data cure tick samples for pathogen analyses and to cover various poten- For estimating site-specific risk conversion potential (human-tick assessments—rather than to assess the suitability of specific habitats garding estimates of annual visitors to specific study sites were used for ticks—dragging was conducted at highly varying locations within where available (sources reported in Technical Appendix). Secondly, study sites. Due to this, the exact locations of drags that caught population estimates were calculated within 500 m and 1 km buffer ticks were not recorded and cannot thus be pinpointed to specific areas around study sites, using data from a national census (Statistics localities/biotopes. A recent study from Germany also reported that Finland; population densities in 1 km2 grids). Five hundred metres climatic variables did not significantly explain differences in tick den- has been suggested as the typical range for daily outdoor activi- sities between green spaces, suggesting that host animals and their ties of local residents (‘neighbourhood’ in Fischhoff et al., 2019). movements may be more relevant in determining tick presence in However, we also added estimates from a longer range (1 km), as urban green spaces . Given these considerations green spaces within the city are surrounded by highly built-up areas, and the generally small sizes of the study sites (Figure 1), analyses potentially leading
