Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


spaces . Given these considerations green spaces within the city are surrounded by highly built-up areas, and the generally small sizes of the study sites (Figure 1), analyses potentially leading to longer distances to recreational areas. The po- regarding climatic or landscape variables affecting tick or pathogen tential for human-tick contacts was calculated by multiplying local presence were not pursued. However, see Technical Appendix for DIN with estimates of population density and visitor count data. We short descriptions of the study sites. use the term weighted infection risk to describe the figures attained by this procedure. 2.2 | Laboratory analysis 2.4 | Statistical analysis Total DNA and RNA were extracted from 1,386 collected nymphs using NucleoSpin® RNA kits and RNA/DNA buffer sets (Macherey- Study site- and month-specific differences in the numbers of ticks Nagel), following the kit protocols (NucleoSpin 96 RNA Core Kit: dragged and DIN were modelled by generalized linear mixed mod- Rev. 05/April 2014 and RNA/DNA buffer set: Rev. 09/April 2017). els (GLMM), with negative binomial error distribution and log link RNA extracts were stored at −80°C for later analyses. DNA extracts function. In models of monthly activity and DIN, differences be- were stored at −20°C. tween study sites were controlled for as a random effect (study DNA samples were screened using real-time quantitative PCR site), whereas in analysis of study site-specific activity/DIN, study (henceforth abbreviated qPCR) for bacterial pathogens Borrelia months were used as a random effect (month). The monthly and burgdorferi sensu lato (henceforth abbreviated BBSL; includ- study site-specific probabilities of nymphs being positive for Borrelia ing separate analyses for B. afzelii, B. garinii, B. burgdorferi s.s. or Rickettsia were modelled by generalized linear mixed models and B. valaisiana), Borrelia miyamotoi, Anaplasma phagocytophi- (GLMM) with binary error distribution and logit link function. Study lum, Rickettsia spp., Neoehrlichia mikurensis, Francisella tularen- sites and/or months were used as random effects, similarly to the sis and Bartonella spp., and for protozoan parasites Babesia spp. tick activity and DIN analyses above. For other pathogens, too few Furthermore, RNA samples were screened for tick-borne enceph- positive samples were available for analyses. alitis virus (TBEV). Assay protocols have been reported previously All the GLMMs were run with the GLIMMIX procedure of sas v. 9.4. for all screened pathogens (Laaksonen et al., 2018; Sormunen using maximum likelihood or residual pseudo likelihood estimation. et al., 2018,2020). The primers used for each pathogen are re-
