Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


v. 9.4. for all screened pathogens (Laaksonen et al., 2018; Sormunen using maximum likelihood or residual pseudo likelihood estimation. et al., 2018,2020). The primers used for each pathogen are re- The method by Kenward and Roger (Kenward & Roger, 2009) was ported in the Technical Appendix, along with further information chosen to adjust standard errors and denominator degrees-of-free- regarding the analyses. dom for tests of the fixed factors. Multiple, a posteriori, pairwise 826 | SORMUNEN Et al. FIGURE 2 AQ5: "AUTHOR: If you would like the figures in your article to appear as colour in print, please promptly post or courier the completed hard copy of the Colour Work Agreement Form (including payment information) to this mailing address: Customer Services (OPI), John Wiley & Sons Ltd, European Distribution Centre, New Era Estate, Oldlands Way, Bognor Regis, West Sussex PO22 9NQ. The form and charge information can be found online at: and Borrelia burgdorferi s.l. prevalence of Ixodes ricinus nymphs, and density of infected nymphs (DIN) in Helsinki, by study site (a-c) or month (d-e). Mismatching letters denote statistically significant differences between study sites or months with different letters (p < .05). Estimated marginal means with 95% confidence intervals are given comparisons for differences of the estimated marginal means (i.e. 3 | RESULTS ls-means in SAS) were adjusted by the Tukey–Kramer method. These results are visually depicted (Figures 2 and 3), using α = 0.05 as a 3.1 | Tick densities and activity threshold for significant difference. For estimating whether specific pathogen combinations were A total of 2,417 I. ricinus (402 adults, 1,399 nymphs and 616 lar- present in samples more or less often than expected by random vae) were caught during 34.8 km of cloth dragging at study sites co-occurrence, Fisher's exact tests were run for each pathogen pair in Helsinki (Table 1). Ticks were found each month from all study separately. Infection status of samples was analysed as a binomial, sites, although in varying numbers depending on study site and categorical variable. month (Figures 2 and 3). Overall, peaks in I. ricinus activity were SORMUNEN Et al. | 827 FIGURE 3 Densities of Ixodes ricinus adults and larvae by study site (a-b) or month (c-d). Mismatching letters denote statistically significant differences between study sites or months with different letters (p < .05). Estimated marginal means with 95% confidence intervals are given TABLE 1 Dragging lengths, numbers of Ixodes ricinus
