Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


garinii and B. valaisiana (1.3 expected, south-western Finland. Finally, we show that TBP diversity is high 4 observed; FET, p = .03). Borrelia afzelii and B. valaisiana were the within the city and that rodent-associated pathogens are more com- only combination observed less often than expected (4.6 expected, mon than bird-associated ones and report Babesia capreoli for the 0 observed; FET, p = .03) (n = 1,386 for all analyses). Relatively high first time from ticks in Finland. SORMUNEN Et al. | 829 FIGURE 4 Observed monthly densities of Ixodes ricinus nymphs infected with Borrelia burgdorferi s.l. (DIN; averaged for Helsinki green spaces) and primary borreliosis (erythema migrans) cases diagnosed in Helsinki in 2019. The grey line represents predicted tick activity patterns based on diagnosed cases, estimated with a 1-month delay from tick bite to diagnosis. Note the different scales on y-axes 4.1 | Tick densities and activity on data from a single year and a limited number of excursions to each study site. The activity and density of ticks may vary across Helsinki. In addition to more forested areas, ticks were also found risks. However, in the current study, the general seasonal trends the middle of maintained grass lawns. While not quantified here, the risk, were similar across all study sites (Figure 2d). As such, similar presence of leaf litter was determined to be a major factor predict- trends may be expected to have occurred in other green spaces in ing tick occurrence by field workers, as suggested previously (Dautel the city as well. & Kahl, 1999). The presence and abundance of all tick life stages in urban green spaces suggests that they are able to carry out their life cycles and form breeding populations even in these varied and 4.2 | Tick-borne pathogens (TBPs) potentially spatially restricted habitats (Dautel & Kahl, 1999; Rizzoli et al., 2014). The findings of the current study regarding TBPs concur with Peaks in the activity of I. ricinus nymphs were observed in May previously reported results, suggesting that TBP prevalence and and in August–September, with the highest densities occurring in diversity in urban green spaces are comparable to those in non- August–September. A similar trend was observed for adults, but urban areas (Kowalec et al., 2017; Maetzel et al., 2005; Oechslin with only June noticeably differing from other months with its low et al., 2017; Rizzoli et al., 2014). Bacteria from the BBSL
