Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


are no longer sufficient, and predicted tick activity based on patient cases (estimated with and specific data on tick blood meal sources are required. Indeed, a 1-month delay from tick bite to diagnosis) appeared to be nega- the development of reliable and cost-effective methods for iden- tive. As DIN is expected to depict the potential risk of contracting tifying blood meal sources from host-seeking ticks should be pur- borreliosis from ticks , one would expect a high sued, in order to reveal (localized) host–pathogen associations and amount of infections being contracted at times of high DIN—with help determine the enzootic cycles of TBPs and variation therein. the base assumption that human activity is roughly consistent. A single tick carrying Babesia capreoli was found from However, human outdoor activity might not be consistent from May Hakuninmaa, forming the first report of this pathogen from Finland. to September. Furthermore, there is likely a difference between the The species has previously been reported from ticks and/or roe risk associated with outdoor activities commonly undertaken in cit- deer in neighbouring Sweden and Norway (Andersson et al., 2016; ies (jogging, walking the dog) and nonurban areas (hiking, mushroom Øines et al., 2012), so its occurrence also in Finland is not surpris- and berry picking, hunting), leading to different risk conversion rates ing. Incidentally, Hakuninmaa, located in the central park of Helsinki, (Randolph, 2010). All in all, it would appear that an unknown pro- is one of the few study sites in the current study that house roe portion of borreliosis cases diagnosed in Helsinki likely represent deer (Capreolus capreolus) and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virgin- infections obtained elsewhere, making it difficult to assess trends ianus) populations, which are suspected to be reservoir hosts for the within the city based on disease case data. In any case, this mismatch pathogen . between locally observed DIN and borreliosis cases highlights the Simultaneous infections with two or more TBPs have on occa- need for further knowledge regarding the specific circumstances sion been demonstrated to lead to more severe diseases in humans leading to human-tick contacts, as well the search for other predic- . Thus, it is important to observe naturally oc- tor variables besides DIN that encompass human behaviour and land curring coinfections in ticks. In the current study, various combina- use (Eisen & Eisen, 2016; Sen et al., 2015; Vanwambeke et al., 2010). tions of coinfections were detected
