Received: 18 June 2020 | Revised: 18 August 2020 | Accepted: 25 August 2020
KEYWORDS: study, ticks, tick, areas, sites, urban, risk, tick-borne, ixodes, helsinki, ricinus, sormunen, green, spaces, activity


and land curring coinfections in ticks. In the current study, various combina- use (Eisen & Eisen, 2016; Sen et al., 2015; Vanwambeke et al., 2010). tions of coinfections were detected in analysed nymphs, with the Highly varying estimates for human activity were obtained general coinfection prevalence being somewhat higher than com- from the two proxy data sets (population census and visitor count monly observed for nymphs (typically <5%, but with higher values data). While visitor count data likely more accurately predict the also reported) (Klitgaard et al., 2019; Lommano et al., 2012; Nieto frequency of risk area visits, it is greatly hampered by its avail- & Foley, 2009; Overzier et al., 2013; Wójcik-Fatla et al., 2009). ability. Hence, the use of population densities obtained by na- However, the figures reported are difficult to compare, as different tional censuses seems like a more applicable option for mapping combinations of pathogens have been screened in different stud- risk areas, particularly for areas with high population density. For ies. The positive and negative associations between co-occurring example, such data could be used for identifying high-risk areas pathogens detected in the current study were logical: coinfections particularly within cities by (a) first mapping out the estimated involving mammal/rodent-associated pathogens (B. afzelii, B. burg- population densities adjacent to different urban green spaces, dorferi s.s., N. mikurensis) and bird-associated pathogens (B. garinii, (b) assessing whether habitats in green spaces surrounded by the B. valaisiana) were more common than expected by random co-oc- highest densities of humans appear suitable for tick inhabitation currence, whereas co-occurrence of pathogens associated with and (c) obtaining DIN values from suitable green spaces by captur- different reservoir animal groups was less common than expected. ing and analysing ticks. However, estimations based on population densities may fail to identify popular recreational areas within cit- ies, as demonstrated in the current study by the mismatch of vis- 4.3 | Density of infected nymphs and weighted itor count and population density data from the Seurasaari study infection risk site. Instead, various user-generated observations such as mobile phone and/or social media data may provide a useful alternative Density of infected nymphs (DIN) was found to vary among both for determining the usage of urban green spaces and, conse- study sites and months. In general, tick densities were the most quently, for identifying high-risk areas . 832 | SORMUNEN Et al. Nevertheless, the more people living close
