Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide-Secreting Tumor (VIPoma)
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, vipoma, neuroendocrine, vip, pancreatic, treatment, syndrome, intestinal, tumors, vasoactive intestinal, vasoactive, peptide, pancreas, diarrhea


parathyroid glands was found. The pituitary was not examined ( 6 , 7 ). The publication by Verner and Morrison further cites 7 similar cases already published in the literature at that time ( 6 ) Thereafter, the VIPoma syndrome was also named “watery diarrhea, hypokalemia, achlorhydria (WDHA)-syndrome”, or “Verner-Morrison syndrome”. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, VIP was first isolated from the lungs and small intestine of experimental animals by the group of the Estonian scientist Viktor Mutt (1923-1998) in Sweden ( 8 - 10 ). In 1973, a radioimmunoassay for VIP became available and subsequently the British physician Stephen R. Bloom and colleagues could for the first time measure elevated VIP levels in the blood of a patient with the VIPoma syndrome ( 11 ). In 1983, the US gastroenterologist Mary G. Kane and colleagues injected five healthy subjects with porcine VIP, which resulted within 4 hours in high plasma VIP levels and was followed by secretory diarrhea in all patients ( 12 ). CLINICAL PRESENTATION Secretory diarrhea is the most characteristic symptom of a VIPoma. In severe cases, patients can produce up to 6-8L of watery stools per day. The stool is rich in electrolytes like potassium and bicarbonate, resulting in hypokalemia and metabolic acidosis in the VIPoma patient ( 13 , 14 ). Another VIPoma symptom is facial flushing (occurring in 15-30% of patients). Hypochlorhydria, stimulation of glycogenolysis, and hypercalcemia can be diagnosed in patients with a VIPoma ( 5 , 14 - 19 ). VIP has a structural homology with secretin, glucagon, and GIP which may account for the enhanced secretion of pancreatic enzymes, inhibition of gastric acid secretion, and glycogenolysis ( 9 ). The cause of the patchy erythematous flushing is not clear, but the flushing has been attributed to VIP, or to prostaglandins co-secreted by the tumor. Approximately 50% of patients have hypercalcemia, but again the mechanism of action is unknown. Hypercalcemia might be related to the co-secretion of parathyroid hormone related peptide (PTHrp) by the tumor ( 20 , 21 ), or in specific cases coexisting primary hyperparathyroidism in the spectrum of the multiple endocrine neoplasia 1 (MEN1) syndrome ( 7 ). Pancreatic VIPomas account for only 0.6–1.5% of all pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (panNENs) ( 17 ) and approximately 2–6% of all functioning panNENs ( 17 ). The incidence is 0.05–0.2 cases per 1 million person-years with no gender predilection (
