Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide-Secreting Tumor (VIPoma)
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, vipoma, neuroendocrine, vip, pancreatic, treatment, syndrome, intestinal, tumors, vasoactive intestinal, vasoactive, peptide, pancreas, diarrhea


80% of patients ( 19 ). Therefore, these tumors can be easily detected with abdominal MRI, 3 phase CT, or endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). Additionally, a positron emission tomography (PET)-CT/MRI with 68 Ga-labelled somatostatin analogs (DOTATATE, DOTANOC, DOTATOC) should be performed to determine, or exclude metastatic spread. In most centers, somatostatin receptor scintigraphy and SPECT using 111 In-pentetreotide (OctreoScan) has become obsolete. In a small case series, 111 In-pentetreotide scintigraphy proved to be superior to conventional radiological imaging for localizing the VIPoma and its metastases ( 39 ). Similar to work-up for all NENs, a biopsy of the primary tumor or its metastases is recommended to confirm the diagnosis and for grading (Ki67 index), since the tumor grade can influence treatment decisions ( 17 ). An overview of the current panNEN staging and grading systems is provided in the chapter “Insulinoma” ( 40 ). Pancreatic VIPoma tumor cells usually express neuroendocrine differentiation markers (chromogranin-A, synaptophysin, INSM1), keratins, transcription factors, and somatostatin receptor subtype 2 ( 17 ). The extent of VIP expression can be variable given the rapid turnover of the protein synthesis. Secondary, or metachronous insulin secretion and/or positive insulin immunohistochemistry on the tumor specimen is generally associated with poor survival ( 41 - 43 ). In patients with metastatic VIPoma, the 5-years survival is 60% ( 14 , 16 ). Patients with high circulating VIP levels (plasma VIP ≥ 5xULN) have a poorer prognosis than those with moderately elevated levels (plasma VIP <5xULN) ( 16 ). TREATMENT Correction of Fluid and Electrolyte Deficits The first treatment aim in a patient with a VIPoma is to correct the fluid and electrolyte deficits. In the majority of severe cases, intravenous resuscitation with saline, potassium and bicarbonate is required. Administration of a somatostatin analog (SSA) can decrease the secretory diarrhea, further aiding in the restoration of fluid and electrolyte imbalances ( 13 , 44 , 45 ). In the acute setting, the SSA octreotide can be administered subcutaneously, or via continuous intravenous infusion ( 46 ). Surgery After initial stabilization, a surgical resection should be performed in patients with a locoregionally confined VIPoma. The 5-year overall survival after surgery of patients with a localized VIPoma is >90% ( 14 , 16 , 19 ). In these patients the symptomatology of the VIPoma syndrome also completely resolved after surgery ( 16 ). Extended surgical resection, also involving the liver, can be considered in
