Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide-Secreting Tumor (VIPoma)
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, vipoma, neuroendocrine, vip, pancreatic, treatment, syndrome, intestinal, tumors, vasoactive intestinal, vasoactive, peptide, pancreas, diarrhea


19 ). In these patients the symptomatology of the VIPoma syndrome also completely resolved after surgery ( 16 ). Extended surgical resection, also involving the liver, can be considered in selected patients with limited liver metastases ( 47 ). In case of an unresectable VIPoma, treatment is focused on tumor stabilization and control of VIP hypersecretion and symptoms ( 16 ). In general, anti-tumor therapy is similar to that used for other non-functioning and functioning panNENs and described in the guidelines by ENETS, NANETS and ESMO ( 48 - 50 ). Somatostatin Analogs Somatostatin analogs (SSAs) represent the first-line palliative treatment for metastatic or unresectable VIPomas. SSAs can have an antiproliferative effect, based on randomized trials with low grade (G1-G2) panNEN. In the CLARINET trial, including grade 1-2 panNENs, treatment with lanreotide autogel (120 mg every 4 weeks) prolonged median progression-free survival (PFS) from 18 to 38 months as compared to placebo by slowing tumor growth ( 51 , 52 ). Treatment with SSAs results in a reduction of diarrhea episodes and volume in approximately 65-85% of VIPoma patients ( 15 , 16 , 45 , 53 , 54 ). It is, therefore, recommended to continue SSAs for symptom control when further lines of treatment are instituted for the control of tumor progression. Everolimus Everolimus is registered for the second-line treatment of G1-2 panNENs based on the result of the RADIANT-3 trial. In this study, 24% of patients had a functioning (= hormone-secreting) panNEN and treatment with everolimus (10 mg / day) improved median progression-free survival by 6.4 months compared with placebo. Everolimus treatment was associated with a (statistically not significant) overall survival benefit of 6.3 months ( 55 , 56 ). Only a few VIPoma patients treated with Everolimus have been reported. In these patients, a symptomatic response was found in less than 10% of patients ( 15 ). Sunitinib In a randomized controlled trial in patients with G1-2 panNENs, second-line sunitinib treatment (37.5 mg/day) resulted in an increased progression-free survival by 5.9 months compared to placebo ( 57 , 58 ). Two patients with a VIPoma were included in this trial, but they were both treated with placebo ( 57 ). In case series, a symptomatic response rate of 30-100% has been described for VIPoma patients treated with sunitinib ( 15 , 16 , 59 , 60 ). Other Medical Options Next to SSAs, interferon-alpha is an established
