Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide-Secreting Tumor (VIPoma)
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, vipoma, neuroendocrine, vip, pancreatic, treatment, syndrome, intestinal, tumors, vasoactive intestinal, vasoactive, peptide, pancreas, diarrhea


of 30-100% has been described for VIPoma patients treated with sunitinib ( 15 , 16 , 59 , 60 ). Other Medical Options Next to SSAs, interferon-alpha is an established first-line antiproliferative and anti-secretory therapy for NENs of the gastrointestinal tract and pancreas either as monotherapy, or in combination with an SSA. However, the many side-effects mainly preclude its widespread use. Variable symptomatic responses with this therapy in VIPoma patients have been reported ( 61 , 62 ). Prednisone has also been occasionally used to control the diarrhea frequency and stool volume in selected cases ( 45 , 63 ). Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy Peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) with 177 Lu-DOTATATE results in a response rate of 55% for panNENs, with a median PFS of 30 months and median overall survival (OS) of 71 months ( 64 ). PRRT with 177 Lu-DOTATATE has only been reported in a limited number of patients with a VIPoma. In case series, the symptomatic response rate of VIPomas to this therapy was approximately 80% and disease control rate was 67% ( 15 , 65 , 66 ). Withdrawal from non-radioactive SSAs can lead to swift recurrence of severe watery diarrhea, providing rationale to limit the time for SSA withdrawal before PRRT cycles with 177 Lu-DOTATATE to a very minimum e.g., by continued use of short-acting octreotide until shortly before the administration of this therapy ( 64 ). Liver Directed Therapy In patients with liver-dominant disease, liver metastases can be resected or treated by bland embolization, radioembolization (SIRT), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), microwave and cryoablation, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), laser, brachytherapy and irreversible electroporation (IRE) depending on local availability ( 47 ). Reduction of liver tumor burden was associated with a symptomatic response of VIPomas in small series ( 15 , 16 , 67 ). Orthotopic liver transplantation with removal of the diseased liver in VIPoma patients preoperatively diagnosed with “liver-only” disease can result in an improved disease course, or even complete cure ( 68 - 70 ). Chemotherapy Chemotherapy is also effective for the treatment of panNEN with symptomatic and tumor growth control achieved in a significant proportion of VIPoma patients ( 42 , 55 , 56 )( 15 , 16 , 43 ). REFERENCES 1. Larsson LI, Fahrenkrug J, Schaffalitzky De Muckadell O, Sundler F, Håkanson R, Rehfeld JR. Localization of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) to central and peripheral neurons. Proc Natl Acad
