Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


depression, polycystic ovarian syndrome, impaired quality of life, cardiovascular disease, and longer term, certain malignancies ( 3 - 9 ). Similar to obesity, the prevalence of T2DM has been increasing dramatically ( 3 ). Obesity is a major risk factor the development of T2DM with overweight adolescents having close to a three times greater risk of developing T2DM when compared to adolescents with normal weight ( 10 - 12 ). Additionally, obesity in adolescence is associated with persistent obesity into adulthood, increased risk for obesity related comorbidities, and premature mortality in adulthood ( 13 - 15 ). Lifestyle and medical management remain the first-line treatment for adolescent obesity. However, current evidence suggests that pharmacotherapy, dietary, and behavioral modifications rarely lead to long-term weight loss in adolescents with severe obesity ( 16 - 18 ). The use of metabolic and bariatric surgery (MBS) in adolescents with severe obesity and complications of obesity has been shown to have superior results in both efficacy and durability ( 19 ). Despite growing evidence of the efficacy and durability of MBS for the treatment of severe obesity in adolescent patients, utilization of MBS in adolescent patients is low and there have been documented racial and socioeconomic disparities ( 20 - 22 ). PREOPERATIVE EVALUATION Multidisciplinary Program A multidisciplinary approach is recommended when considering MBS for an adolescent ( 23 , 24 ). At a minimum, this includes a bariatric surgeon with adolescent experience, pediatrician, dietitian, nurse, and pediatric psychologist. It is also important the core providers have access to additional pediatric specialists including anesthesiologists, radiologists, and appropriate specialists to aid the management of complications of obesity (e.g., pulmonology, endocrinology, gastroenterology/hepatology). Adolescents undergoing preoperative work-up should be evaluated for the presence and severity of complications of obesity. Additionally, it is important for the multidisciplinary team to determine a potential patient and caregivers’ ability to assess the risks and benefits of surgery as well as to adhere to postoperative requirements including daily vitamin regimens and attending postoperative visits. Patient Selection BODY MASS INDEX (BMI) The following criteria have been recommended by multiple panels of experts for consideration of weight loss surgery in adolescents under 18 years old: ( 4 , 19 , 25 ). BMI ≥ 120 percent of the 95 th percentile for BMI for age or BMI ≥ 35kg/m 2 , whichever is lower, with complications of obesity that have a significant effect on health
