Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


percent of the 95 th percentile for BMI for age or BMI ≥ 35kg/m 2 , whichever is lower, with complications of obesity that have a significant effect on health ( Table 1 ). OR - BMI ≥ 140 percent of the 95 th percentile of BMI for age or BMI ≥ 40 kg/m 2 , whichever is lower. Of note, the BMI threshold for adult patients for the recommendation has been reduced in the 2022 guidelines, therefore changes to adolescent recommendations may follow suit in future updates ( 26 ). Table 1. Qualifying Comorbidities for Consideration of MBS in Adolescents ( 4 ) View in own window Obstructive sleep apnea (apnea-hypoxia index > 5) Type 2 diabetes mellitus Idiopathic intracranial hypertension Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis Blount’s disease Slipped capital femoral epiphysis Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Hypertension CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindications to adolescent MBS are listed in Table 2 . Table 2. Contraindications to Adolescent MBS View in own window Medically correctable cause of obesity Ongoing substance abuse problem (within the preceding year) Medical, psychiatric, psychosocial, or cognitive condition that prevents adherence to postoperative dietary and medication regimens or impairs decisional capacity Current or planned pregnancy within 18 months of the procedure Inability for patient or caregivers to comprehend risks and benefits of surgical weight loss procedure AGE A recent cohort analysis of more than 600,000 adolescents aged 13-17 found that 1 in 23 adolescents met criteria for MBS ( 27 ). A retrospective review of the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program (MBSAQIP) data registry from 2015 to 2018 demonstrated that adolescents and young adults only represented 3.7% of total MBS cases performed suggesting significant underutilization within this population ( 28 ). Multiple studies have evaluated the safety and efficacy of MBS in younger adolescents. Current evidence suggests there are no significant clinical differences in outcomes between MBS in younger (e.g., <13 years) versus older adolescents (e.g., ≥13 years) ( 29 - 35 ). It is therefore not recommended to limit access to MBS based on patient’s age, physical maturity (e.g., bone age), or pubertal status. These findings have prompted increased advocacy for the use of MBS in the adolescent population by the American Academy of Pediatrics ( 19 , 36 ). TYPES OF SURGERY Sleeve Gastrectomy A laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (SG) results in the removal of the greater curvature of the stomach resulting in a smaller, tubular stomach that has
