Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


). TYPES OF SURGERY Sleeve Gastrectomy A laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (SG) results in the removal of the greater curvature of the stomach resulting in a smaller, tubular stomach that has a reduced capacity ( Figure 1 ). Given the procedure is less complex than the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) and has less risk for micronutrient deficiencies, it is an appealing option for adolescents. Sleeve gastrectomies currently account for approximately 80% of bariatric procedures in adolescents ( 28 , 37 - 39 ). A SG may also be converted to RYGB in the event additional MBS is indicated or in the setting of postoperative medically refractory gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Figure 1. Sleeve Gastrectomy. Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) involves creating a small, proximal gastric pouch which is separated from the remnant stomach and anastomosed to a Roux-limb of small bowel 70-150 cm distally ( Figure 2 ). The RYGB results in similar weight loss when compared to SG and dramatically improves glycemic control ( 38 , 40 ). The incidence of postoperative GERD is significantly less following RYGB compared to SG, making the procedure an attractive option for adolescents with GERD at baseline ( 41 ). Figure 2. Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass. Others Additional procedures including intragastric balloons are not currently approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in adolescents. Adjustable gastric bands have been previously used in the adolescent population. However, they have fallen out of favor due inferior efficacy compared to SG and RYGB ( 42 ). POSTOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Inpatient Average inpatient stay is typically <2 days following both a SG and RYGB ( 43 ). Patients are monitored for immediate postoperative complications including a leak, bleeding, and venous thromboembolism (VTE). Following discharge, patients are seen at regular postoperative visits to monitor body weight, nutritional status, and to manage complications of obesity. Diet Following a SG or RYGB, patients gradually progress from a high protein liquid diet to incorporating small volumes of regular food. Patients are encouraged to eat three to four protein-rich meals a day while avoiding carbohydrate rich foods. Supplemental sugar-free fluids between meals are also essential following surgery to avoid dehydration. Patients are typically encouraged to avoid excessive fluids with meals to minimize nausea and maximize nutritional intake with meals due to the restrictive component of both procedures. Postoperative nausea is not uncommon following surgery but typically self
