Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


fluids with meals to minimize nausea and maximize nutritional intake with meals due to the restrictive component of both procedures. Postoperative nausea is not uncommon following surgery but typically self resolves. Meals high in carbohydrates or sugar and fats can result in dumping syndrome or weight regain following surgery. Some providers recommend limiting carbonated or caffeinated beverages following MBS based on theoretical concerns, however there is minimal evidence to support this apprehension. Similar to non-operative weight loss recommendations, general recommendations including exercising for 30 to 60 minutes daily, drinking sugar-free fluids, and portion-controlled protein rich meals are the same. Overall, it is recommended that patient and caregiver meet with a dietitian prior to discharge to develop a plan tailored to patient’s specific nutritional needs. Regular follow-up visits with a dietitian are also recommended to assist with postoperative weight management and to monitor for nutritional deficiencies. Nutritional Supplements and Monitoring Although SG may be associated with a decreased risk of nutritional deficiencies when compared to RYGB, lifelong supplementation with vitamins and minerals is recommended following both operations ( Table 3 ) ( 44 ). Patients are particularly at risk for deficiencies in iron, vitamin B12, and vitamin D. Additionally, lifelong annual monitoring of nutritional and micronutrient status is recommended with annual laboratory testing ( Table 3 ). Adjustments in supplements may need to be made over time as specific deficiencies emerge. Table 3. Nutritional Supplementation and Monitoring Recommendations ( 45 ) View in own window Nutritional Supplements Standard multivitamin with folate or iron, or prenatal vitamin if female (once or twice daily) Vitamin B12, 500mcg sublingually daily, or 1000mcg intramuscularly monthly Calcium, 1200 to 1500mg daily (measured as elemental calcium) with 800 to 1000 international units of vitamin D. Annual Nutritional Monitoring Complete blood cell count with differential Serum iron and ferritin Red blood cell folate, serum vitamin B12, and serum homocysteine Serum thiamin (vitamin B1) Hepatic panel (including albumin, total protein, serum aminotransferase levels, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, and alkaline phosphatase Calcium, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and parathyroid hormone Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan to monitor bone density (optimal frequency not yet established) Pregnancy Prevention Pregnancy should be avoided for 12 to 18 months following MBS to allow patients to achieve weight maintenance and to avoid potential micronutrient deficiencies which may affect both patient and fetus ( 46 ). Obesity can result in decreased fertility secondary to irregular menstruation and ovulatory dysfunction ( 47
