Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


to avoid potential micronutrient deficiencies which may affect both patient and fetus ( 46 ). Obesity can result in decreased fertility secondary to irregular menstruation and ovulatory dysfunction ( 47 , 48 ). Weight loss after MBS has been shown to result in more regular ovulation and improved fertility ( 49 , 50 ). In a retrospective review of 47 adolescents who underwent MBS surgery, seven pregnancies occurred, six of them within 10 to 22 months following surgery ( 51 ). While all six deliveries were healthy and at term, the twofold higher than anticipated pregnancy rate highlights the need for contraception counseling following MBS. Multiple studies have evaluated the efficacy of hormonal contraceptive methods in patients with elevated BMIs and no definitive association was found between higher BMI and effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives ( 52 ). Due to concern for malabsorption after intestinal bypass procedures and the subsequent potential for decreased oral contraceptive efficacy, the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology recommend using non-oral forms of hormonal contraception in patients who have undergone malabsorptive MBS ( 53 ). Additionally, oral contraceptives are associated with increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) which may be worrisome for adolescents with elevated BMIs who already have a higher predisposition for VTE ( 54 , 55 ). Intrauterine devices (IUDs) are an appealing option following MBS in adolescent patients as they are one of the most effective contraception methods, do not increase risk of VTE, and can be placed at the time of surgery ( 56 ). Levonorgestrel-releasing IUDs have the added benefit of promoting amenorrhea which could help reduce the risk of iron deficiency anemia following surgery ( 57 ). Regardless of the form of contraception selection, adolescents should be counseled on safe sex practices including the use of barrier protection against sexually transmitted infections. Adolescent patients who become pregnant following MBS should be counseled on adequate nutritional intake with close monitoring of iron, folate, and vitamin B12 levels. Additionally, one must be cautious when screening for gestational diabetes in pregnant patients who have undergone MBS. In a study of a 119 post-bariatric surgery pregnant patients, oral glucose tolerance test resulted in hypoglycemia in 83% of patients with history of RYGB and 55% of patients with history of SG ( 58 ). Alternative methods for screening such as capillary blood glucose measurements are therefore recommended. These methods recommend obtaining capillary blood glucose values
