Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


of patients with history of SG ( 58 ). Alternative methods for screening such as capillary blood glucose measurements are therefore recommended. These methods recommend obtaining capillary blood glucose values before and after each meal for 3-7 days and using pre-and post-prandial capillary glucose values according to recommended cut-off values for defining diabetes mellitus ( 59 , 60 ). Comorbidity Reassessment Regular reassessment of complications of obesity should occur at routine intervals in the postoperative phase to monitor for resolution or need for continued management. Patients with T2DM should be evaluated by their endocrinologist every three months. Repeat polysomnography is generally obtained between three to six months after surgery for patients previously on continuous positive airway pressure therapy ( 61 , 62 ). Twenty-four-hour blood pressure monitoring can also be repeated three months after surgery to demonstrate resolution or persistence of hypertension. Medication may be restarted if blood pressure is consistently ≥120 mmHg systolic or ≥80 mmHg diastolic. Patients with biopsy proven nonalcoholic fatty liver disease may be re-biopsied 12 months after surgery to document regression. Finally, patients’ mental health needs should be re-evaluated by a pediatric psychologist at 6 and 12 months after surgery. In the setting of weight regain, patients should be monitored for complications of obesity. There is emerging evidence however, that some complications of obesity may be weight dependent and others non-weight dependent ( 63 ). Some surgeons will routinely obtain an upper gastrointestinal contrast study at 12 months after surgery or as needed to assess anatomy which may lead to weight regain. Anatomical abnormalities that may contribute to weight regain include a dilated gastric sleeve or gastrogastric fistula. Follow Up Close follow up with the multidisciplinary team including the bariatric surgeon, pediatrician, dietitian, and pediatric psychologist is strongly recommended. Patients are typically followed by a pediatrician to ensure ongoing continuity of care. It is important for the core providers to have access to pediatric specialists including endocrinology, gastroenterology/hepatology, and pulmonology as needed in those with complications of obesity that require ongoing monitoring or management. Additionally, a gynecologist for contraception counseling may be required for female patients. The transition from pediatric to adult medicine can be challenging in patients with chronic medical conditions and frequently requires assistance from multiple members of the team for transition care coordination and preparation as well as to ensure adequate communication, support, and education ( 64 - 66 ). OUTCOMES Percent
