Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


76% (95% CI, 56-97) rate of remission at 3 years ( 62 ). These remission rates in Teen-LABS were compared to adults who underwent MBS. The Teen-LABS study's 10-year metabolic findings demonstrated sustained improvements in comorbidities for most participants, with a remission rate of 55% for type 2 diabetes ( 68 ). In contrast to adult studies, diabetes outcomes when surgery was used in adolescents were comparable between RYGB and SG. It is also worth mentioning that the long-term remission rate for type 2 diabetes (55% at 10 years) significantly exceeds that observed in adults undergoing bariatric surgery for diabetes, where long term remission rates have been estimated to be around 15% ( 76 ). These results highlight the durability of both weight loss and diabetes remission in adolescents undergoing RYGB. Finally, among those who underwent RYGB, adolescents were more likely to have remission of T2DM at 5 years with a remission rate of 86% compared to 53% in adults ( 77 ). These data underscore that the health benefits of bariatric surgery may be more pronounced in adolescents than in adults. Similar findings were demonstrated in another study of 226 adolescents undergoing SG, of which 23% of patients were found to have T2DM. Eighty-five percent of patients with T2DM were on medication for diabetes prior to surgery and 89% achieved normal fasting plasma glucose and hemoglobin A1c levels without the use of medication postoperatively ( 61 ). To compare surgical versus medical therapy for T2DM in adolescents with severe obesity, data from participants with T2DM enrolled in the Teen-LABS study were compared to participants of similar age and racial distribution from the Treatment Options of Type 2 Diabetes in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) studies. Teen-LABS participants underwent MBS. TODAY participants were randomized to metformin alone or in combination with rosiglitazone or intensive lifestyle intervention, with insulin therapy given for glycemic progression. At two years, mean hemoglobin A1c concentration decreased from 6.8% to 5.5% in patients who underwent MBS compared to an increase from 6.4% to 7.8% in those enrolled in the TODAY study. Compared to baseline, average BMI decreased by 29% in Teen-LABS participants while the average BMI increased by 3.7% in TODAY participants ( 78 ). Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk reduction was also explored in a secondary analysis of this study and despite higher pretreatment risk for CVD, treatment with MBS resulted in reduction of estimated CVD that
