Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


(CVD) risk reduction was also explored in a secondary analysis of this study and despite higher pretreatment risk for CVD, treatment with MBS resulted in reduction of estimated CVD that were sustained at 5-year follow-up where medical therapy was associated with an increase in risk of CVD in adolescents with T2DM and severe obesity ( 79 ). While these initial results are promising of the beneficial effects of MBS for the treatment of T2DM, no studies have prospectively compared the efficacy of MBS with that of medical therapy for the treatment of T2DM in adolescents with obesity. Additionally, the majority of initial MBS data in adolescents were from those who underwent RYGB which is no longer the primary MBS procedure performed in adolescents due to its inferior safety profile. In 2019, the National Institute of Health funded the Surgical or Medical Treatment for Pediatric T2DM (ST 2 OMP) trial which will compare SG to advanced medical therapy ( 80 , 81 ). OTHER COMORBIDITIES In the Teen-LABS study described above, a mean 74% (95% CI, 64 to 84) remission of hypertension (HTN), 66% (95% CI 57 to 74) remission of dyslipidemia, and 86% (95% CI 72 to 100) resolution of abnormal kidney function was found at 3 years ( 62 ). In a secondary analysis of Teen-LABS and TODAY data, medical management of adolescents with obesity was associated with higher odds of diabetic kidney disease when compared to MBS ( 82 ). Greater weight loss after MBS in adolescents has also been associated with greater remission of T2DM, HTN, and dyslipidemia ( 63 , 83 ). In a comparison of adolescents and adults who underwent RYGB, adolescents were more likely to have remission of HTN at 5 years compared to adults (68% vs 41%) ( 77 ). Additional studies have demonstrated a 66% to 84% remission of obstructive sleep apnea as well as improvements in liver disease and polycystic ovarian syndrome ( 8 , 61 , 84 ). Improvements in functional mobility as well as reduction in musculoskeletal pain have also been well described ( 85 , 86 ). Mental Health Multiple studies have reported higher rates of depression, emotional and behavioral disorders, and suicidal ideation in adolescents with obesity ( 87 - 90 ). Additionally, binge and loss of control eating is prevalent among more than one quarter of adolescents with overweight and obesity ( 91 , 92 ).
