Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


( 87 - 90 ). Additionally, binge and loss of control eating is prevalent among more than one quarter of adolescents with overweight and obesity ( 91 , 92 ). A recent prospective study demonstrated that undergoing MBS in adolescence did not heighten or lower the risk of suicidal thoughts or behaviors following the initial 4 years after surgery ( 93 ). While still unclear whether obesity leads to psychopathology, or vice versa, the association highlights the need for appropriate psychological services in the pre- and postoperative period ( 87 ). MBS can lead to improvements in psychosocial outcomes, although the improvements in some studies are transient. In the TEEN-Labs study, quality of life measured by the Impact of Weight on Quality of Life and Short Form 36 Health Survey improved after MBS ( 62 , 86 ). When compared to a nonsurgical control, Teen-LABS participants also demonstrated significantly higher levels of self-worth and romantic self-perceptions 6 years after surgery ( 94 ). Several studies have demonstrated improved depressive and anxiety symptoms in the months following MBS, although the results were not maintained after the first postoperative year ( 95 , 96 ). In a multisite study assessing two year follow up of psychopathology prevalence in adolescents undergoing MBS, most patients retained their symptomatic or non-symptomatic psychopathology status at two years, although remission of symptoms was more prevalent than the development of new symptoms ( 97 ). These results emphasize the need for long-term psychosocial monitoring following MBS as well as early treatment in those with psychopathology. Substance and alcohol abuse have been observed in post-MBS adolescents and adults. Pre and postoperative screening and education regarding substance and alcohol addiction should be integrated in long-term follow up care ( 98 ). Short-Term Complications Short-term complications (<30 days after surgery) in adolescents undergoing MBS are similar to those seen in adults. Early postoperative complications, though rare, include surgical site infections, bleeding, leak, strictures, and pulmonary embolism. In a retrospective review of 21,592 adolescents and young adults who underwent SG or RYGB between 2015 and 2018, 3.7% of patients required readmission, 1.1% of patients required reoperation, and 3.3% required percutaneous, endoscopic, or other intervention ( 28 ). Major complications were rare; the most common complication was bleeding (0.4%), followed by leak (0.4%), and deep surgical site infections (0.2%). RYGB was associated with higher rates of reoperation (2.1% vs. 0.8%), readmission (6.3% vs.
