Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


deficiency anemia can occasionally be severe in adolescent women following MBS which can be compounded by menstruation and challenges in recognizing symptoms therefore daily supplementation and routine nutritional monitoring is essential following MBS. Vitamin B12 deficiency was seen in approximately 12% of patients after either procedure. Approximately 40% of patients had low vitamin D levels at baseline with no significant change at follow up. Parathyroid hormone concentrations increased in patients undergoing RYGB from an average baseline concentration of 44 pg/ml to 59 pg/ml at 5 years with the risk of abnormal parathyroid hormone levels nearly sixfold higher after RYGB compared with SG ( 102 ). Elevated parathyroid hormone is utilized as a surrogate for calcium deficiency and raises concerns about long-term bone health. In adolescents, reduced bone mass has been noted 5-11 years after MBS, whether this increases long term fracture risk remains unclear.( 105 , 106 ). Concerns of growth retardation after MBS have been refuted and the most recent adolescent ASMBS guidelines have removed the recommendation of patients reaching physical maturity prior to MBS ( 4 , 30 ). The risk of nutritional deficiencies decreases with adherence to prescribed micronutrient supplements and increases with pregnancy ( 102 ). Given the high prevalence of nutritional deficiencies, lifelong micronutrient supplementation is required following surgery. One concern emphasized in the adolescent population is adherence to regular multivitamin use. In a prospective study of 41 adolescents who underwent MBS, multivitamin adherence was only 29.8% ± 23.9 ( 107 ). WEIGHT REGAIN Current data demonstrates satisfactory maintenance of weight loss at long-term follow up with both SG and RYGB ( 38 , 71 , 108 ), but in other detailed analysis of weight regain trajectories, there are distinct groups that emerge in a large enough dataset. The Teen-LABS data at 10 years showed that 38% of the cohort experienced moderate weight regain. One trajectory group experienced a nadir of 25% weight loss at five years but only maintained 13% loss at 10 years. Another group (11% of the cohort) showed poor results with a weight loss peak at 20% at five years, but then proceeding to regain all weight from 5-10 years, resulting in a 7% BMI increase (above baseline) by 10 years ( 68 ). Some adult studies have demonstrated utility of anti-obesity medications after MBS to mitigate weight regain after surgery, however this has not been thoroughly explored in the adolescent
