Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
KEYWORDS: pubmed, adolescents, surgery, obesity, bariatric, mbs, bariatric surgery, free, patients, article, pmc, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, adolescent


( 68 ). Some adult studies have demonstrated utility of anti-obesity medications after MBS to mitigate weight regain after surgery, however this has not been thoroughly explored in the adolescent population ( 109 , 110 ). More research is needed to fully understand the mechanisms behind long-term weight maintenance after MBS. OTHER COMPLICATIONS Cholelithiasis is a common complication due to rapid weight loss following MBS in both adolescents and adults. In the Teen-LABS study, cholecystectomy was required within three years in 9.9% of adolescents who underwent RYGB and 5.1% who underwent SG ( 62 ). Five percent of Teen-LABS participants required other abdominal operations including lysis of adhesions, gastrostomy, ventral hernia repair, or internal hernia repair ( 62 ). Symptoms of GERD, nausea, bloating, and diarrhea can also increase following MBS. During five years of follow up, the incidence of GERD increased from 2% to 8% in adolescents who underwent RYGB and from 11% to 24% in those who underwent SG. At five years postoperatively, the SG group had more than fourfold greater odds of having gastrointestinal distress symptoms when compared to RYGB ( 41 ). Dumping syndrome can been seen after both procedures, however it is much more common after RYGB compared to SG ( 111 , 112 ). The incidence of dumping syndrome (~12%) in adolescents after RYGB was similar to adult patients two years after surgery( 113 ). There are no current established guidelines for surveillance of Barrett’s esophagus after SG for adolescent patients, however routine screening is recommended for adult patients after SG, therefore it would be prudent for adolescent patients to undergo intermittent surveillance also as the length of possible GERD exposure is theoretically longer ( 114 ). Similarly, there are no established guidelines for monitoring of bone density following use of MBS in adolescence, but due to inadequate vitamin D levels and rising PTH at least in those who underwent RYGB, periodic monitoring with DEXA may be prudent. Emerging Evidence Current evidence evaluating the outcomes and efficacy of adolescent MBS is generally limited to ≤10 years of follow up. Smaller, long-term studies with data available for up to 18 years post-operatively in patients who primary underwent RYGB demonstrate the durability of weight loss and similar rates of complications, although inference is limited due to small sample sizes with reduced attrition rates ( 70 - 72 , 115 , 116 ). Characteristics including study size,
