Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


ABSTRACT Aging is characterized by changes in virtually all biological systems, and the hypothalamic-pituitary axis is no exception. With aging, the secretory patterns of the hormones produced by the hypothalamic–pituitary axis gradually shift with the axis becoming less responsive to feedback from end hormones. This is accompanied by physical and cognitive changes that coincide with decreases of main anabolic hormones, such as growth hormone and sex steroids. In addition, aging-induced effects are difficult to disentangle from the influence of other factors that are more prevalent in the elderly, such as chronic diseases, inflammation, and poor nutrition; all of which can affect the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Aging is also associated with an increased detection of pituitary tumors found incidentally in magnetic resonance imaging studies performed in older individuals, most of which are slow growing, non-functioning micro-incidentalomas. Clinical manifestations are generally observed with macroadenoma mass effects, symptoms of hormonal deficiency, and rarely hormonal excess. Transsphenoidal surgery, especially when performed in the hands of an experienced neurosurgeon, is generally safe and effective in elderly patients with pituitary tumors, although there are some increased comorbidity and anesthetic risk. Hormone replacement therapies to treat hypopituitarism should be individualized to account for physiological changes of aging and associated pathologies, and hormonal intervention to reverse aging is not recommended due to lack of clinical benefits and potential adverse effects. Managing functional pituitary tumors, especially Cushing disease and acromegaly, in the elderly are often more challenging than in younger patients due to many potential pitfalls in terms of symptom recognition, diagnostic workup and reliability of hormone testing, greater burden of concomitant comorbidities, and limited data on treatment outcomes in this population. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Healthy aging of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis is a multifactorial process with considerable inter-individual variability. As individuals age, it is inevitable that physical and cognitive functions decline ( 1 ). However, the extent to which age-related changes in hormonal regulation and the rising prevalence of hypothalamic-pituitary hormone disorders that contribute to the decline in physical and cognitive function remains incompletely understood. This aspect of geriatric medicine will inevitably expand in importance in the coming years as the number of older individuals increases due to increased general lifespan. Aging of the adenohypophysis is associated with a reduction in size, increased fibrosis, altered vascularization, and a higher incidence of microadenomas;
