Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


of older individuals increases due to increased general lifespan. Aging of the adenohypophysis is associated with a reduction in size, increased fibrosis, altered vascularization, and a higher incidence of microadenomas; all of which can affect its hormonal secretory patterns ( 2 ). These alterations are further compounded by reduced tissue sensitivity to hormonal action and changes to the circadian rhythm associated with aging ( 3 ). Collectively, these age-related endocrine changes are characterized by progressive reductions in the synthesis and/or peripheral action of anabolic hormones, such as growth hormone (GH) and gonadal hormones, and the increase in the synthesis of hormones with catabolic properties, such as cortisol ( Figure 1 ) ( 4 ). Notably, these hormonal shifts are part of the normal aging process and may not necessarily indicate pathological conditions ( Table 1 ). Compared to younger individuals, healthy older adults typically exhibit altered body composition, marked by decreased skeletal muscle mass and increased adipose tissue, as well as reduced bone mineral density and muscle strength ( 1 ). Despite these findings, multiple studies have shown that hormonal supplementation aimed at restoring “youthful” hormone levels in the elderly does not offer proven clinical benefits and may, in fact, pose inherent risks and cause unwanted side-effects ( 5 ). Therefore, supplemental hormonal therapy in the elderly should only be reserved for treating specific diseases rather than attempting to counteract the natural aging process. Figure 1. Summary of changes of hormones of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis associated with aging. Reproduced with permission from Caputo et al. 2022 ( 4 ). Table 1. Aging and Age-Related Changes in Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis Function: Similarities and Differences View in own window Signs/symptoms Advancing age GH levels Cortisol levels Thyroid hormone levels Sex hormone levels Fatigue ↑ ↓ ↑↓ ↓ ↓ Sleep disturbances ↑ ↓ ↑↓ ↓ ↓* Muscle loss and sarcopenia ↑ ↓ ↑↓ ↓ ↓ Bone loss ↑ ↓ ↑ ↔ ↓* Body fat increase ↑ ↓ ↑ ↓ ↓ Glucose intolerance ↑ ↓ ↑ ↓ ↓ Dry skin and hair loss ↑ ↓ ↑ ↓ ↓ Hypertension ↑ ↓ ↑ ↓ ↓ Dyslipidemia ↑ ↓ ↑ ↓ ↓ * Especially in women during peri- and post-menopause. PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF AGING ON THE HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY AXIS Growth Hormone and Insulin-Like Growth Factor-I Axis Growth hormone secretion occurs physiologically in a pulsatile fashion and in a circadian rhythm with maximal releases in the latter half of
