Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


AXIS Growth Hormone and Insulin-Like Growth Factor-I Axis Growth hormone secretion occurs physiologically in a pulsatile fashion and in a circadian rhythm with maximal releases in the latter half of the night ( 6 ). Peak GH secretion occurs around mid-puberty ( 7 ), and declines after the age of 30 by approximately 14% per decade ( 8 ). The reduction in GH secretion mainly results from marked reductions in GH pulse amplitude, with only very little change in pulse frequency ( 9 ). By the eighth decade, GH levels are so low that they are comparable to those of GH-deficient young adults ( 10 ). Pulse frequency is similar across age, with approximately 18 secretory episodes of GH per 24 hours in children, younger adults, and older individuals ( 11 ). The decline in GH with aging is primarily seen in the amplitude of the secretory episodes, although interpulse levels also decline ( Figure 2 ) ( 12 ). The mechanism that underpins the decline in GH secretion is incompletely understood but has been postulated to be based in the hypothalamus, as somatotroph cells tend to maintain normal secretory responses to GH-releasing stimuli ( 13 ). Circulating IGF-I levels, the main mediator for the trophic effects of GH primarily generated from the liver, also decline with age by > 50% from the 3 rd to the 9 th decade ( 14 ) as a consequence of decreased GH secretion ( Figure 3 ). Notably, the action of GH on the liver to generate IGF-I is preserved in aging ( 15 ). The decline in GH and IGF-I is further accentuated by metabolic changes and common comorbidities in the elderly, such as diabetes mellitus (DM), chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, malnutrition, and sarcopenia ( 16 - 20 ), which independently also contribute to reduce IGF-I levels. Furthermore, obesity is more prevalent in individuals over 60 years, which is associated with lower IGF‑I levels ( 21 , 22 ). Tausendfreund et al. ( 23 ) recently provided valuable insights into the significant variability of IGF-I levels in the elderly. Retrospectively reviewing 246 blood tests from 89 multimorbid elderly outpatients with a mean age of 83 not on GH treatment, these investigators found a mean intra-individual coefficient of variation for IGF-I of 14.7% and high reference change values (increase 44.3% and decrease 30.7%) indicating that IGF-I levels in the elderly can
