Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


investigators found a mean intra-individual coefficient of variation for IGF-I of 14.7% and high reference change values (increase 44.3% and decrease 30.7%) indicating that IGF-I levels in the elderly can change substantially within an individual over time. Thus, these factors contribute to a high degree of variability in IGF-I levels in the elderly that does not always reflect GH activity, making the evaluation of disorders of GH/IGF-I axis particularly challenging. Figure 2. Differences in patterns of GH secretion in younger and older women and men. There is a marked age-related decline in GH secretion in both sexes and a loss of the night-time enhancement of GH secretion seen during deep (slow wave) sleep. This decrease is primarily due to a reduction in GH pulse amplitude, with little change in pulse frequency. L = large GH pulses, S = small GH pulses. Reproduced with permission from Ho et al. 1987 ( 9 ). Figure 3. Serum IGF-I changes with age in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging. Lines represent best fit equations, for men a first order function and for women a curvilinear third order expression. IGF-I decreases significantly with age in both sexes Reproduced with permission from O’Connor et al . ( 14 ). Between genders, peak GH levels are higher in premenopausal women than in men due to reduced hepatic GH receptor sensitivity ( 9 , 24 ); therefore higher GH secretion is required to maintain normal circulating IGF-I levels. In women, if oral estrogen is ingested, hepatic IGF-I synthesis is blunted resulting in increases in GH secretion through reduced feedback inhibition ( 25 ). When oral estrogen is discontinued or switched to the transdermal route, IGF-I levels increase and GH secretion is unchanged, indicating that the route of administration is the major determinant of the effects of exogenous estrogens on hepatic GH receptor sensitivity ( 26 ). After menopause, GH levels decline and become comparable with men of similar age due to further estrogen reductions in this phase of life ( 9 ). In healthy older men, previous studies have reported that co-administration of GH and testosterone increased muscle IGF-I gene expression without altering body composition or muscle strength ( 27 ) but did result in significant changes in lean body mass and fat mass ( Figure 4 ) ( 28 , 33 ), suggesting that testosterone acts additively with GH in reversing this GH secretion decline. By
