Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


in lean body mass and fat mass ( Figure 4 ) ( 28 , 33 ), suggesting that testosterone acts additively with GH in reversing this GH secretion decline. By contrast, in healthy older women, lean body mass increased and fat mass decreased after administration of GH, similarly in the absence and presence of estrogen plus progestin ( 33 ). Other mechanisms that could explain the age-related decrease in GH secretion include decreased GHRH or ghrelin secretion, increased somatostatin inhibition, increased sensitivity of somatotrophs to negative feedback inhibition by IGF-I, and decreased pituitary responsiveness to GHRH and hypothalamic-pituitary responsiveness to ghrelin ( 29 ). The aging pituitary is also less responsive to exercise, sleep, and fasting ( 30 ). Furthermore, decreased GH secretion in the elderly could be related to changes in lifestyle, including decreased physical fitness and energy intake, and decline in sleep quality ( 30 ). Therefore, it can be surmised that the age-related decline in GH secretion is multifactorial in etiology and is caused by changes at and above the level of the pituitary. Figure 4. Co-administration of GH with testosterone is more effective in improving body composition than with either GH or testosterone alone. Reproduced with permission from Giannoulis et al. ( 28 ). Alterations in body composition associated with normal aging include reductions in bone mineral density and in muscle mass and strength, increased body fat and adverse changes in lipid profiles ( 31 , 32 ). This decline in GH secretion is initially clinically silent, but over time may contribute to the development of sarcopenic obesity and frailty ( Figure 5 ). Studies investigating short-term GH supplementation in healthy elderly individuals have shown modest improvements in body composition, including reduced visceral fat, increased lean body mass, and lower LDL-cholesterol levels. However, these benefits did not extend to other clinical outcomes such as bone mineral density, balance, strength, coordination, or endurance. Conversely, GH-treated individuals experienced a higher incidence of adverse effects, including soft tissue edema, arthralgias, carpal tunnel syndrome, and glucose intolerance ( 27 , 33 , 34 ). Thus, the long-term safety of GH supplementation remains uncertain, particularly regarding the risk of cancer development in individuals > 80 years of age. Given these limitations and potential risks, GH supplementation should not be considered for healthy elderly adults without confirmation and documentation of pathological GH deficiency (GHD). Figure 5. Aging is associated with bone, muscle
