Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


and potential risks, GH supplementation should not be considered for healthy elderly adults without confirmation and documentation of pathological GH deficiency (GHD). Figure 5. Aging is associated with bone, muscle and fat tissue deterioration leading to osteosarcopenic obesity and its consequences. Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Gonadal (HPG) Axis In men, aging leads to a progressive decline in function of the HPG axis and subsequently, gonadal function. Testosterone levels peak at ~age 30 years, followed by a gradual decline thereafter at a rate of 1-2% annually ( 12 , 35 ) and this is a net effect of a decreased testosterone production that is not fully compensated by reduced metabolic clearance. While women become infertile after menopause, fertility decline in aging men does not necessarily involve complete cessation of spermatogenesis ( 36 ). Luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) rise gradually in aging men, while gonadotropin pulsatility and total testosterone secretion decline due to impairment of hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion and reduced pulse size ( Figure 6 ) ( 37 ). Additionally, the pulse amplitude of LH is reduced and its efficacy in driving testicular steroidogenesis is impaired. Testicular volume in men > 75 years is decreased by 30%, and the number of Sertoli cells is also reduced ( 38 ). Because testicular response to LH stimulation is attenuated, administration of pharmacological hCG doses is ineffective in stimulating testosterone production in many older men ( 39 ). Age also impairs testosterone-mediated negative feedback on GnRH and pituitary LH secretion, Furthermore, at the beginning of the sixth decade of life, there is a decrease in 5α-reductase activity despite normal testosterone levels. However, the mechanism of how age affects local conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone in the hypothalamus and pituitary gland remains unclear. Conversely, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels increase as men age ( 37 , 40 ) contributing to a disproportionate reduction in free testosterone levels ( Figure 6 ). Figure 6. Mean hormone concentrations with 95% confidence intervals (shaded area) presented in 5-year age ranges for a cohort of 3220 men. Mean hormone concentrations with increasing age were interpolated to approximate the age trend. Total testosterone and, disproportionately free testosterone, were lower, and the concentrations of LH and SHBG were higher in the older age groups. Reproduced with permission from Wu et al . ( 37 ). Testosterone decline in aging is associated with several consequences, such as muscle mass loss, increased
