Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


the older age groups. Reproduced with permission from Wu et al . ( 37 ). Testosterone decline in aging is associated with several consequences, such as muscle mass loss, increased fat mass, decreased bone mineral density, fatigue, depression, insulin resistance, decreased libido, erectile dysfunction, diminished working memory, decreased executive-cognitive function, and increased cardiovascular risk ( 41 , 42 ). The terms “andropause” or “late-onset hypogonadism” are coined to define a clinical and biochemical state occurring in men with advancing age, characterized by symptoms and low morning serum testosterone levels ( 43 ). Although it is difficult to establish the correct criteria for identifying testosterone deficiency in older men who do not have pathological hypogonadism, late-onset hypogonadism has been previously defined by the presence of at least three sexual symptoms associated and a total testosterone level < 320 ng/dL ( 44 ). In the absence of other pituitary hormone deficiencies, it is difficult to differentiate mild central hypogonadism from andropause. While age-appropriate testosterone replacement in older men with evidence of hypopituitarism or primary hypogonadism is recommended, the question of whether treating normal aging males to replete testosterone levels to “youthful” levels remains controversial. On the other hand, menopause in women is the only well-defined universal change which is a function of aging that significantly impacts clinical changes on bone and lipid metabolism, and neurocognitive, cardiovascular and genitourinary systems. Menopause begins with the depletion of the ovarian pool of primordial follicles, with lower oocyte quality in the remaining follicles contributing to decreased fertility starting from the fourth decade of life onwards ( 45 ). Conversely, FSH elevations may precede clinical menopause by 5-10 years ( 46 ) caused by increased secretion of GnRH, which in turn, is regulated by several other factors, including ovarian hormones and kisspeptin ( 47 ). After the marked rise in FSH and LH levels in response to the decline in ovarian feedback, there is a concurrent steady decline in LH and FSH levels with age. Additionally, decreased pituitary responsiveness to GnRH occurs with aging that likely contributes to the overall decline in gonadotropin secretion. With advancing age, when follicle availability declines, cycle irregularity (> 7 days longer than previous cycles) occurs that signals the onset of menopause transition, generally at a mean age of 46 years. This is followed by increased intervals of the menstrual cycle, including delayed dominant follicle growth, anovulatory bleeding and missed periods that
