Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


transition, generally at a mean age of 46 years. This is followed by increased intervals of the menstrual cycle, including delayed dominant follicle growth, anovulatory bleeding and missed periods that culminates in the depletion of ovarian follicles and the final menstrual period which retrospectively marks the onset of menopause after 12 months of amenorrhea, generally around the age of 51 years ( 45 ).Therefore, although it is clear that the ovary plays a primary role in the loss of reproductive function in women, the potential contributions of the neuroendocrine components of the reproductive axis to the changing reproductive phenotype with aging have to be considered ( 48 ). The resultant estrogen deficiency subsequently contributes to the development of dyslipidemia (elevations in serum total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, apolipoproteins, and triglycerides, and decreases in HDL cholesterol), increased cardiovascular risk and events, vasomotor instability, and cognitive disturbances in menopause ( 49 ). Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) Axis The HPA axis is involved in life-sustaining homeostatic and allostatic adjustments to internal and external stressors. This stress-adaptive axis is a dynamic feedback network with circadian rhythmicity and pulsatile neurohormone secretion ( 50 ). Older individuals exhibit HPA axis hyperactivity to stress, partly due to reduced negative feedback from cortisol acting at the hippocampal level ( 51 ) and prolonged cortisol response to exogenous adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) administration ( 52 ). Sleep disruption is common in the elderly and is associated with elevated daytime cortisol levels ( 53 ). Beyond systemic regulation, aging can increase local cortisol activity in several tissues through the enhanced conversion of cortisone to cortisol by the enzyme 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-HSD1). In skin, 11β-HSD1 expression is increased with aging which can enhance local catabolic actions without affecting adrenal cortisol secretion ( 54 ), whereas in muscle, 11β-HSD1 expression is increased with decreasing strength in older individuals ( 55 ). By contrast, although overt Cushing syndrome is rare in the elderly, mild ACTH-independent hypercortisolemia, often caused by adrenal adenomas or hyperplasia, is more prevalent in the elderly due to the increased frequency of adrenal incidentalomas ( 56 ) and is associated with adverse outcomes such as hypertension, glucose intolerance, cardiovascular events, and osteoporosis ( 57 ). In contrast, aldosterone levels show a modest decline with aging, accompanied by a reduction in plasma renin activity, and these changes are thought to exert minimal physiological impact in the elderly ( 51 ). As for DHEAS secretion, levels
