Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


aging, accompanied by a reduction in plasma renin activity, and these changes are thought to exert minimal physiological impact in the elderly ( 51 ). As for DHEAS secretion, levels peak at ~ age 25 and decline gradually with age, falling to childhood levels by age 80 in most adults ( 58 ) reflecting gradual atrophy of the zona reticularis ( 59 ). Men tend to have higher DHEAS concentrations than women ( 60 ). In women, more than half of circulating testosterone is derived from 19-carbon androgen precursors from the adrenal cortex, including DHEA, DHEAS, and androstenedione ( 61 ), whereas the majority of testosterone in men is derived from the testes throughout adult life. Therefore, age-related decline in steroid production from the zona reticularis exerts a greater impact in women and in men with primary or secondary testicular dysfunction than in normal men. Additionally, the adrenal cortex also synthesizes 11-oxygenated androgens, notably 11β-hydroxyandrostenedione, which is metabolized into 11-ketotestosterone ( 62 ). In women, DHEA, DHEAS, androstenedione, and testosterone all decline from age 30 years onwards; however, 11β-hydroxyandrostenedione and 11-ketotestosterone increase slightly into the ninth decade and decline only slightly during this age window in men ( 63 ). In most women ( 63 ) and prepubertal children ( 64 ), 11-ketotestosterone is the most abundant bioactive circulating androgen and this adrenal androgen component is preserved throughout life. Because 11-ketotestosterone also provides negative feedback on the HPG axis, this contribution could become important in older men. Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Thyroid (HPT) Axis The HPT axis undergoes complex physiological changes with aging. However, direct age-related changes need to be distinguished from indirect alterations caused by simultaneous thyroid or non-thyroidal illness, or other physiological or pathophysiological states whose incidence increases with age. In an attempt to discriminate between effects of aging per se and those of thyroidal or nonthyroidal illness, Harman et al . ( 65 ) studied 74 healthy men from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study on Aging that were evenly distributed over the age range of 30-96 years. These investigators reported that aging is associated with subtle changes in thyroid function, including small decreases in total thyroxine (T4) primarily due to decreased thyroid hormone secretion and an increase in T4 binding to proteins leading to a lower free T4 index. Thyroid hormone clearance also decreases with aging resulting in longer half-lives of T4 and triiodothyronine (T3) and a compensatory decrease in the production
