Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


leading to a lower free T4 index. Thyroid hormone clearance also decreases with aging resulting in longer half-lives of T4 and triiodothyronine (T3) and a compensatory decrease in the production of new thyroid hormones ( 66 , 67 ), leading to unchanged net total and free serum T4 levels ( 68 ). The thyroid gland itself may also lose its responsiveness to TSH stimulation, resulting in the reduced production of T4 and T3 ( 69 ). A possible explanation for this observation is that the aging process itself results in decreased thyroid volume secondary to atrophy and fibrosis ( 70 ). Serum total and free T3 levels also decline with aging due to reduced peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 secondary to either the direct effect of aging itself or non-thyroidal illness ( 71 ), thus allowing for slower metabolism and maintenance of T4 levels at the expense of T3 levels ( 69 ). Conversely, TSH levels tend to increase in elderly apparently euthyroid patients, even in individuals without any history of thyroidal illness and with concurrently negative antithyroid antibody levels ( 72 ). While the exact mechanisms behind this age-related increase in TSH remains unknown, proposed age-related mechanisms for this change include increased production of TSH molecules with reduced biologic activity due to alterations in thyrotroph post-translational processing of TSH ( 69 ), decreased sensitivity of thyrotrophs to negative feedback from circulating thyroid hormone ( 73 ), and/or development of TSH resistance by the thyroid gland ( 73 ). Increased detection of thyroid autoantibodies have been reported with advancing age, which may explain the increased incidence of primary hypothyroidism in the elderly caused by chronic autoimmune thyroiditis ( 74 ). Additional factors complicating the relationship between thyroid hormone levels and aging include the presence of comorbid diseases in the elderly including hypertension, heart failure, liver failure, and kidney failure. As thyroid hormone metabolism relies in part on the liver and kidneys ( 75 ), if either of these organ systems are impaired, it can further affect the clearance of thyroid hormone. Decreased iodine intake from dietary salt restriction ( 76 ) and age-related decrease in gastrointestinal iodine absorption ( 77 ) predisposes elderly patients to iodine deficiency that can contribute to the development of hypothyroidism ( 78 ). Additionally, blunted circadian fluctuations in TSH levels and diminished TSH responses to TRH stimulation have been reported in elderly males (
