Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


contribute to the development of hypothyroidism ( 78 ). Additionally, blunted circadian fluctuations in TSH levels and diminished TSH responses to TRH stimulation have been reported in elderly males ( 79 , 80 ) suggesting the presence of an age-related diminution in pituitary thyrotropic function. Prolactin Regulation and Secretion Prolactin regulation is primarily controlled by dopamine, which is tonically released by hypothalamic neurons and inhibits prolactin secretion via D2 receptors on the lactotrophs. The secretion of prolactin is approximately 50% in pulses and 50% tonically. Both modes of secretion show 24-hour rhythmicity with greater output at night than daytime ( 81 ). In individuals < 50 years, prolactin levels are higher in women than men ( 82 ). Across the menstrual cycle, prolactin levels vary slightly, with higher levels during the luteal phase and highest levels occurring during either the ovulatory or luteal phases ( 83 ). However, a distinct mid-cycle prolactin surge coinciding with the LH peak has not been consistently observed likely due to the pulsatile nature of prolactin release overshadowing any transient increases ( 84 ). Prolactin also plays a key inhibitory role in the HPG axis by suppressing kisspeptin-1 secretion with advancing age, which normally stimulates GnRH ( 85 ). Through this mechanism, elevated prolactin can impair fertility and reproductive hormone production. Following menopause, nocturnal prolactin secretion declines by approximately 40% because of decreased estrogen levels ( 86 ), whereas aging men experience more modest prolactin reductions ( Figure 7 ) ( 87 ). Additionally, TRH-stimulated prolactin release diminishes with age ( 88 , 89 ). Other mechanisms involved in the changes in prolactin secretion during aging include increased dopamine inhibition, reduced prolactin releasing-factor stimulation and/or increased adipokine inhibition of lactotropes ( 87 ). Figure 7. Serum prolactin levels determined by sampling every 2.5 min overnight in young and older healthy men. Reproduced with permission from Iranmanesh et al. ( 87 ). In women with polycystic ovary syndrome, Albu et al. ( 90 ) demonstrated that lower prolactin levels correlated with insulin resistance and poorer metabolic profiles, implicating the role of prolactin in adiposity and glucose regulation. In comparison, elevated prolactin levels are observed in individuals with depression and associated with anxiety, hostility, somatization, psychotic symptoms, and heart rate ( 91 ). Patients with Parkinson’s disease treated with dopamine agonists exhibit reduced prolactin levels. Given the increased prevalence of Parkinson’s disease with aging ( 92 )
