Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


and heart rate ( 91 ). Patients with Parkinson’s disease treated with dopamine agonists exhibit reduced prolactin levels. Given the increased prevalence of Parkinson’s disease with aging ( 92 ) and the frequent use of antipsychotic medications in older adults ( 93 ), careful medication history is essential when evaluating prolactin levels in these populations. Sodium and Water Homeostasis Aging causes distinct physiological changes that disrupt normal water homeostasis at multiple regulatory points. The net effect is a loss of homeostatic reserve, rendering older individuals susceptible to both pathological and iatrogenic disturbances in water homeostasis ( 94 ). Older individuals exhibit decreased thirst sensation and drinking response to thirst when plasma osmolality rises ( Figure 8 ) ( 95 ). This deficit likely results from the reduced activity in the neural pathways that relay osmotic signals to higher cortical centers responsible for the thirst perception and from which the thirst-activated drinking responses arise ( 96 ). Some studies suggest this impairment may even be attributed to a higher osmotic threshold needed to trigger thirst in older individuals ( 97 ). Additionally, baroreceptor-mediated regulation of thirst is altered with age, whereby plasma volume expansion fails to generate sufficient suppression of thirst found in the young ( 98 ). The loss of appropriate thirst responses to both osmotic and volume stimuli hinder the critical compensatory mechanisms to trigger fluid intake in the face of hyperosmolality to replace lost body fluid, thus undermining a key physiological defense against dehydration. Figure 8. Plasma sodium and total water intake in healthy older and younger subjects following 24 hours of dehydration. Baseline sodium concentrations before and after dehydration are shown. Free access to water was allowed for 60 minutes following dehydration starting at time = 0 minutes. Cumulative water intake during the free drinking period by young and old subjects is depicted in the bar graph. Despite a greater initial increase in serum sodium, older participants drank less water with less correction of the elevated serum sodium. Reproduced with permission from Phillips et al. ( 95 ). Renal function also declines with age, including a reduction in glomerular filtration rate and a loss of maximal urinary concentrating capacity ( 99 ). These changes impair the ability of the kidneys to conserve free water, increasing the risk of body water deficits, hyperosmolality, and hypovolemia. When coupled with an impaired thirst drive, this decline in renal function contributes
