Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


of the kidneys to conserve free water, increasing the risk of body water deficits, hyperosmolality, and hypovolemia. When coupled with an impaired thirst drive, this decline in renal function contributes to the increased incidence of hypernatremia observed in older adults ( 100 ). Aging is also associated with a reduced ability to excrete excess water mainly attributed to reduced age-related glomerular filtration rate and decreased intrarenal generation of prostaglandins ( 101 ). Furthermore, a higher sensitivity to osmotic stimuli may be observed with advancing age given that the relatively rare idiopathic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (SIAD) is more frequently observed in the elderly ( 101 ). The frequent reduction in protein intake in this population impairs water excretion that may contribute to the development of hyponatremia ( 102 ). This, in turn, increases the susceptibility to volume overload, especially in the context of pre-existing comorbidities like heart failure and cirrhosis, which are more prevalent in older populations. Their compromised ability to eliminate excess fluid places them at higher risk for developing hypo-osmolar hyponatremia. Among the most intriguing aspects of age-related changes in water homeostasis is the regulation of arginine vasopressin (AVP) and its AVP-mediated effects on renal and vascular targets being more pronounced in males than in females ( 103 ). While many endocrine functions decline with aging, basal AVP secretion is maintained or even increased in older adults, with males tending to have higher AVP levels than females ( 104 ). Additionally, osmoreceptor sensitivity governing AVP secretion in response to plasma osmolality appears to be increased ( 105 ). It is likely that the enhanced secretion of AVP and inability to suppress AVP secretion during fluid intake ( 96 ), coupled with decreased free water excretion ( 106 ), increases the risk of hypo-osmolar hyponatremia in older individuals. Therefore, aging alters the regulation of water homeostasis through changes in thirst perception, renal concentrating and diluting ability, and AVP secretion that compromise the ability to respond appropriately to both fluid loss and fluid excess. DISEASES OF THE HYPOTHALAMIC-PITUITARY AXIS IN THE ELDERLY Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas (NFPAs) The number of elderly patients detected with pituitary adenomas is now increasing ( 107 ) as the population is living to an older age ( 108 ) and the increasing accessibility of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Among these, NFPAs are the commonest subtype, accounting for up to 70% of cases in individuals aged ≥
