Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


patients (≥ 65 years of age) with NFPA (7.0%) was lower than in younger patients (40–55 years of age) (15.5%) ( 118 ), which may be attributed to the 2-fold greater tumor volume doubling time of residual NFPAs in elderly patients (≥61 years of age) than that in younger patients (<61 years of age) ( 126 ). Additionally, age is negatively associated with the immunohistochemical expression of pituitary tumor transforming gene in pituitary adenomas, a marker associated with tumor regrowth and recurrence ( 127 ). The indications for either microscopic or endoscopic surgery for NFPAs are generally consistent across all age groups ( 117 - 119 , 121 , 125 ) and has been reported to be safe and effective ( 117 , 128 ). However, due to the higher risk of perioperative complications and mortality in elderly patients, pituitary surgeries in the elderly should only be performed by experienced neurosurgeons at higher-volume centers ( 117 , 128 ). Pituitary surgery should not be recommended for elderly patients with NFPAs and hypopituitarism alone, instead, should be reserved for patients presenting with symptoms due to mass effects (e.g., visual impairment) or evidence of rapid tumor growth ( 128 ). For elderly patients with high surgical risk or tumors with no mass effect on the optic chiasm, conservative management with regular MRI surveillance is plausible. Hypopituitarism Hypopituitarism in the elderly can be caused by “tumoral” causes, of which can be subdivided into pituitary and non-pituitary tumors (< 10% of cases), and “non-tumoral” causes ( 129 ) (Table 2). For tumoral causes, pituitary macroadenomas are the most frequent cause. Unlike younger patients, where prolactinomas make up the majority of pituitary tumors, the majority of pituitary tumors in the elderly are NFPAs with higher rates of compressive symptoms (e.g., headaches and visual field defects) and hypopituitarism before and after surgery ( 109 , 110 ). The development of hypopituitarism related to macroadenomas are secondary to the local compressive effects on the pituitary stalk resulting in decreased availability of hypothalamic hormones, compression and/or destruction of functioning pituitary tissue, and hypothalamic involvement by the pituitary tumor. Hypopituitarism is manifested by the typical sequence of growth hormone deficiency (GHD) being affected first, followed by gonadotropin, ACTH, and thyrotropin (TSH) deficiencies. Mild to moderate hyperprolactinemia can also occur due to pituitary stalk compression (“the stalk effect”). However, the diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia may be under-recognized because of lack of
