Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


thyrotropin (TSH) deficiencies. Mild to moderate hyperprolactinemia can also occur due to pituitary stalk compression (“the stalk effect”). However, the diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia may be under-recognized because of lack of menstrual periods in women and frequently low testosterone levels in men that may be misinterpreted as being age-related. View in own window Table 2. Causes of Hypopituitarism in the Elderly Neoplastic Pituitary adenoma Metastases Meningioma Craniopharyngioma Glioma Chordoma Rathke’s cleft cyst Germinoma Lymphoma Infiltrative/inflammatory diseases Hypophysitis Hypothalamitis Sarcoidosis Hemochromatosis Granulomatosis with polyangiitis Langerhans cell histiocytosis Iatrogenic Surgery Radiation Medications (immune checkpoint inhibitors, opioids) Vascular Subarachnoid hemorrhage Pituitary apoplexy Ischemic stroke Intrasellar aneurysm Infections Meningitis (bacterial, viral, fungal) Tuberculosis Traumatic brain injury Empty sella Idiopathic In elderly patients, the finding of a pituitary lesion on magnetic resonance imaging studies should alert for the possibility of a metastatic lesion from breast, lung, prostate, and colorectal cancers. In such patients, there may be a history of malignancy and symptoms of polydipsia and polyuria because of AVP-deficiency ( 130 ). Other less common “tumoral” causes of hypopituitarism in the elderly include meningiomas, craniopharyngiomas, gliomas, chordomas, germinomas, and Rathke’s cleft cysts ( 131 ). Additionally, the associated treatment by surgery and/or radiation to the pituitary tumor can also cause hypopituitarism ( 131 ). As for “non-tumoral” causes, empty sella, traumatic brain injury, ischemic stroke, and aneurysmal subarachnoid bleeding are some examples ( 131 ). Rarely autoimmune hypophysitis (including immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced hypophysitis) ( 132 ), pituitary apoplexy (especially in patients on anticoagulant therapy) ( 133 ), or previously undiagnosed pre-existing pituitary adenomas can also cause hypopituitarism. In the elderly, some medications are taken more frequently to treat acute or chronic diseases (e.g., opioids, glucocorticoids, and anti-depressants) that may result in hormonal alterations and thus interfere and pose diagnostic challenges in these patients. Growth Hormone Deficiency Adult GHD (AGHD) is a clinical entity characterized by pathologically lower GH levels than the physiological decline in GH and IGF-I levels associated with aging ( 134 , 135 ). Because patients with AGHD often present with non-specific signs and symptoms that overlap with aging, including increased central adiposity, decreased physical and mental performance, decreased bone mineral density, impaired quality of life and social withdrawal ( 131 ), the diagnosis may be under-recognized. Previous studies have shown that GH replacement reverses many, but not all of these alterations ( 131 ), and that it is safe and durable in the
