Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


may be under-recognized. Previous studies have shown that GH replacement reverses many, but not all of these alterations ( 131 ), and that it is safe and durable in the short and long-term ( 131 , 136 ). However, there is currently no accepted consensus on the identification of elderly AGHD as an entity for which GH replacement is recommended, as data on the real impact of GH replacement in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in elderly AGHD patients is still lacking ( 137 ). Additionally, it is unclear whether GH therapy should be continued indefinitely in older patients already undergoing treatment, or if it should be discontinued upon reaching very old age (e.g. > 85 years). An important concern in older adults is the increased potential for adverse outcomes related to GH replacement, including risks of inducing malignancy, cellular senescence, telomere shortening, and the onset or worsening of DM. DIAGNOSIS OF ELDERLY GHD Low IGF-I levels support the diagnosis of GHD, whereas normal IGF-I levels do not reliably exclude the diagnosis in the elderly ( 131 ), as up to 40% of patients over 60 years with GHD present with normal IGF-I values compared with only 4% in those between 20 and 39 years ( 131 , 138 ). The observed pattern is explained by the age-related decline of IGF-I in healthy individuals and the age-independent IGF-I levels in patients with GHD ( 131 ). Thus, the diagnosis of elderly AGHD often requires confirmation with GH stimulation tests ( 131 ). The exception is in patients with a structural brain defect, pre-existing hypopituitarism (coexistence of ≥ 3 pituitary hormone deficits), and low serum IGF-I SDS (< -2.0 SDS), where it is sufficient to confirm the diagnosis without undergoing GH stimulation testing ( 131 ). Other patients will require GH stimulation testing, with the need to proceed to one, sometimes two, GH stimulation tests ( 131 ). Current guidelines recommend first determining the probability of hypopituitarism and optimally treating any pituitary hormonal deficiencies first before testing for AGHD ( 131 ). For elderly GHD, the decision to perform diagnostic testing for AGHD should be corroborated by a strong pre-test probability to avoid false positive results ( 139 ). Furthermore, interpreting the results of GH stimulation tests may be challenging due to the variability in response of GH stimulation tests available ( 135 ), given the fact that these tests lack
