Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


the results of GH stimulation tests may be challenging due to the variability in response of GH stimulation tests available ( 135 ), given the fact that these tests lack age-adjusted cut-offs ( 131 ). The two available tests for the diagnosis of GHD in the United States are the insulin tolerance test (ITT) and the glucagon stimulation test (GST). However, the ITT is contraindicated in the elderly ( 140 ), whereas the GST needs to be conducted with close medical supervision in the elderly. This test is not without its caveats in the elderly as Tavares et al . ( 141 ) demonstrated that 21.4% of elderly patients who underwent the GST reported adverse events, including 4 patients with severe symptomatic hypotension, dizziness, and sweating. The GHRH plus arginine stimulation test seems to offer the best accuracy/safety ratio in elderly patients, but the effect of body mass index (BMI) is unclear. Moreover, this test cannot be performed in the United States as because the sole manufacturer of the necessary recombinant GHRH analog (Geref @ ) discontinued its production in 2008 ( 142 ). Conversely, the utility of the macimorelin test, which is a simple, accurate, well-tolerated, reproducible, and safe test ( 143 - 145 ), has not been studied in patients > 66 years of age and should be used with caution in patients with pro-arrhythmic manifestations. Unfortunately, this test is also not available in many countries, including the United States, and when it was available in the United States, was limited in its use because of cost reasons ( 142 ). TREATMENT OF ELDERLY GHD Although GH replacement improves most metabolic and psychological abnormalities in adults with GHD ( 131 ), specific studies of these effects in elderly patients are lacking. From a pragmatic standpoint, we recommend starting GH at low doses of 0.1 to 0.2 mg/day in the elderly, and up titrating the dose based on clinical response and side-effects ( 131 ). Because elderly patients are more sensitive to GH effects, it is important to perform periodic monitoring of clinical benefits and adverse events. Side-effects in the elderly consist mainly of fluid retention and worsening of insulin resistance that must be closely monitored and generally resolve with dose reductions or discontinuation of GH therapy ( 131 ). Similar to AGHD, the goals of treatment in elderly GHD are clinical response, attainment of IGF-I levels between -2
