Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


with dose reductions or discontinuation of GH therapy ( 131 ). Similar to AGHD, the goals of treatment in elderly GHD are clinical response, attainment of IGF-I levels between -2 and +2 SD ( 146 ) and minimization or avoidance of side-effects ( 147 ). Toogood et al. reported that the majority of elderly GHD patients maintained IGF-I levels at goal on a dose of 0.33 mg/day ( 148 ). Follow-up intervals in treated patients are initially 1 or 2 months; the up-titration of GH dose is carried out with small increments of 0.1 to 0.2 mg/day, based on the clinical response, IGF-I levels, occurrence of side-effects, and individual considerations. Shorter follow-up intervals and smaller dose increments may be needed, especially for those patients with other comorbidities such as DM and prediabetes ( 131 ). Once maintenance GH dose is achieved, follow-up intervals can be increased to 6 to 12 months. During follow-up, the several parameters that need to be evaluated include IGF-I, fasting glucose, hemoglobin A1c, lipid profile, BMI, waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio, while thyroid, glucocorticoid and sex hormone requirements may need to be adjusted due to possible effects of GH interactions with these hormones ( 131 ). Despite studies demonstrating the safety of long-term GH therapy in AGHD patients, the possibility of malignancy in the elderly should be borne in mind and the presence of any active neoplasia should prompt the discontinuation of GH replacement in this population. Potential adverse effects of long-term GH replacement therapy on senescence and telomere shortening are theoretical safety concerns in elderly individuals and have not been assessed after the eighth decade of life in any reported study. Reassuringly, current evidence have not shown an association between GH replacement and primary tumor or cancer recurrence; hence we propose considering GH therapy in the elderly to be based on each individual’s circumstance ( 149 , 150 ). ACTH Deficiency Undiagnosed central adrenal insufficiency (CAI) is a potentially life-threatening condition, and prompt diagnosis and replacement therapy is essential. In elderly patients, isolated ACTH deficiency is rare, unless caused by prolonged exposure to exogenous oral, parenteral, or even inhaled glucocorticoid therapies. Therefore, CAI in elderly patients is mainly caused by conditions that could result in the development of hypopituitarism (Table 2). Specifically, CAI has been reported in up to 30% in patients with pituitary adenoma undergoing surgery ( 151 ) and in 12-68% of patients
