Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


the development of hypopituitarism (Table 2). Specifically, CAI has been reported in up to 30% in patients with pituitary adenoma undergoing surgery ( 151 ) and in 12-68% of patients after pituitary or cranial irradiation ( 152 ). The expansion of immune checkpoint inhibitors in treating various cancer subtypes ( 153 ) has led to an increase in immune-related adverse events, and is now recognized as an important cause of isolated ACTH deficiency in the elderly ( 154 ). Glucocorticoid use is relatively common in the elderly due to the high prevalence of inflammatory, immune-mediated, pulmonology and neoplastic diseases ( 155 , 156 ). These individuals are particularly susceptible to CAI, especially if the medication is stopped suddenly. Obtaining a careful history of use of synthetic glucocorticoids is helpful to arrive at the diagnosis, with high doses, longer duration of treatment, and use of long-acting glucocorticoids giving the highest risk. Diagnosis of CAI is based on laboratory evaluation, and the diagnostic approach is similar for both isolated and non-isolated forms. In elderly patients, the diagnosis of CAI is often challenging due to factors such as polypharmacy, the presence of multiple comorbidities, interferences related to the use of concurrent medical therapies, and the lack of cortisol or ACTH cut-offs specific to older adults or chronically ill populations. Under normal physiological conditions, severe stress such as that induced by critical illness should lead to an increase in ACTH and cortisol secretion due to central activation of the HPA axis ( 157 ). Nevertheless, in hospitalized patients with critical illness, studies have observed a transient suppression of the HPA axis that occurs independently of any organic pituitary disorder ( 158 ). For example, in patients with septic shock, a form of relative adrenal insufficiency has been described ( 159 ), with ACTH levels often found to be mostly low to low-normal levels ( 160 ). If hepatic cirrhosis is present, this might further complicate the assessment of adrenal function. In these patients, adrenal cortisol secretion is impaired due to reduced levels of total cholesterol, and ACTH secretion is suppressed by elevated levels of circulating proinflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, serum cortisol measurements may appear falsely low due to decreased levels of albumin and cortisol-binding globulin ( 161 ). The initial step in making the diagnosis of CAI involves measuring morning serum cortisol levels along with ACTH. A low morning cortisol level with an inappropriately low
