Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


( 161 ). The initial step in making the diagnosis of CAI involves measuring morning serum cortisol levels along with ACTH. A low morning cortisol level with an inappropriately low or normal ACTH level suggests CAI ( 147 ). Based on the Endocrine Society guidelines, a morning cortisol level < 3 mcg/ dL is suggestive for adrenal insufficiency, while levels > 15 mcg/dL exclude the diagnosis ( 147 ). Prete et al. ( 162 ) proposed to consider the diagnosis with morning cortisol levels < 3.6 mcg/dL and the diagnosis being less likely for morning cortisol levels > 12.7 mcg/dL. Giordano et al. ( 163 ) demonstrated that in normal elderly subjects (age 63–75 years), the cortisol response to ACTH was preserved after supramaximal (250 μg) and submaximal (0.5 μg) doses, but was absent after administration of a very low ACTH dose (0.06 μg), in agreement with other studies of a possible reduced sensitivity to ACTH stimulation of the adrenal fasciculata zone occurring with aging ( 164 ). Le et al. ( 52 ) investigated the cortisol response to ACTH 250 μg in a cohort of 51 women aged 85–96 years and demonstrated similar pre-ACTH stimulation levels of cortisol among frail, pre-frail, and non-frail participants, and after ACTH administration, a prolonged cortisol response to the stimulus was shown, suggesting an inadequate negative feedback. These data imply an exaggerated cortisol response to the ACTH stimulus in aging or, alternatively, mechanisms related to diminished ACTH metabolism or cortisol clearance. Additionally, it is important that clinicians are aware of the type of assay when interpreting serum cortisol results, given that modern monoclonal antibodies-based assays tend to read 20-30% lower than older assays ( 165 ). If the morning cortisol level alone is insufficient to make the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency, then performing the ACTH stimulation test is required. While the standard 250 μg dose of synthetic ACTH (ACTH 1-24) is accepted for diagnosing adrenal insufficiency, the utility of the low-dose 1 μg ACTH test has been suggested as the more sensitive test by some investigators for assessing CAI. However, there is no clear consensus on which test is superior, and current guidelines do not provide definitive recommendations regarding which test to use ( 147 ). However, the low-dose ACTH stimulation test is difficult to perform due to the lack of commercially available low-dose Cosyntropin analogs, which makes accurate dilution and dosing challenging (
