Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


147 ). However, the low-dose ACTH stimulation test is difficult to perform due to the lack of commercially available low-dose Cosyntropin analogs, which makes accurate dilution and dosing challenging ( 166 ). The accuracy of the ACTH stimulation test is also influenced by the methods used to measure serum cortisol levels. Earlier studies were based on traditional immunoassays using polyclonal antibodies, which tended to overestimate cortisol concentrations. More recently, assays using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and monoclonal antibodies have been developed, offering greater specificity and accuracy, and lower cortisol cut-offs have been proposed using these newer assays for both basal and stimulated cortisol levels ( 165 ). Another caveat about the ACTH stimulation test is that the diagnostic value of this test in patients with suspected CAI lies in the assumption that chronic ACTH deficiency has resulted in adrenal atrophy, and a consequent impaired response to stimulation by Cosyntropin analogs ( 147 ). Alternative but less frequently used provocative tests to the ACTH stimulation test have been utilized, including the insulin tolerance test, glucagon stimulation test and overnight metyrapone stimulation test. The insulin tolerance test can assess the HPA function as hypoglycemia is a potent stimulus for cortisol release. However, this test is unpleasant and contraindicated in the elderly and in individuals with a history of seizures or cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, for the risk-related hypoglycemia. The glucagon stimulation test is another provocative test that can be utilized but the side-effects reported in older individuals, such as nausea, vomiting, hypotension, sweating and dizziness ( 141 ), and debatable cortisol cut-offs makes this test less attractive in the elderly. The metyrapone stimulation test can assess HPA function as the test is based upon the principle that metyrapone inhibits the conversion of 11-deoxycortisol to cortisol, with the resultant decrease in serum cortisol levels followed by an increase in ACTH secretion and the immediate precursor of cortisol, 11-deoxycortisol. If the HPA axis fails to respond appropriately to the decreased glucocorticoid feedback, then subnormal increases in 11-deoxycortisol will be observed ( 167 ). Compared with the insulin tolerance test, the metyrapone stimulation test is considered more physiological, with fewer adverse side-effects. However, the use of this test is limited as metyrapone is not accessible in many countries and measurements of 11-deoxycortisol in blood and urine are also not widely available. Treatment of CAI involves glucocorticoid replacement therapy aimed at mimicking the natural circadian
