Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


accessible in many countries and measurements of 11-deoxycortisol in blood and urine are also not widely available. Treatment of CAI involves glucocorticoid replacement therapy aimed at mimicking the natural circadian rhythm of cortisol secretion. Unlike primary adrenal insufficiency, fludrocortisone is not required in CAI because the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis is preserved. Short-acting glucocorticoids, such as hydrocortisone and cortisone acetate, are preferred due to better physiological alignment. Traditional replacement doses, such as 30 mg/day of hydrocortisone, are excessive ( 168 ) since patients with CAI retain some residual HPA axis function and hence, have lower cortisol needs than those with primary adrenal insufficiency. Other factors can also affect glucocorticoid dosing, including growth hormone deficiency, which can reduce cortisol clearance by upregulating 11β-HSD1 activity ( 169 ) and older age that is associated to increased expression of 11β-HSD1 in skin, brain, and muscle ( 170 , 171 ), thus resulting in lower glucocorticoid requirements in older patients. While no specific recommendations have been provided for elderly patients by any consensus guidelines, it is reasonable to use the lowest possible glucocorticoid dose to maintain well-being and avoid overtreatment. The standard hydrocortisone regimen is 15–20 mg per day, split into two or three doses, with the highest dose (half or two-thirds of the total daily dose) taken in the morning and subsequent doses taken either in the early afternoon (2 h after lunch; two-dose regimen) or at lunch and afternoon (three-dose regimen) at least 6 hours before bedtime to reduce the risk of sleep disturbances ( 147 ). There are now two different extended-release hydrocortisone formulations (Plenadren once-daily dosing and Efmody twice-daily dosing) that have been developed, allowing closer mimicking of circadian secretion of cortisol serum profile to improve quality of life and metabolic profiles of patients with adrenal insufficiency ( 172 ). Plenadren and Efmody were approved for adrenal insufficiency in 2011 and congenital adrenal hyperplasia in 2021 in Europe ( 172 ); however neither formulation is currently approved in the United States. In elderly patients with hypopituitarism with concurrent CAI, central hypothyroidism (CH) and GHD, these particular considerations should be made for these patients. In these patients, glucocorticoids should be started before levothyroxine therapy is commenced, and only when these two hormones are optimally replaced should GH replacement be considered. As CAI may mask the presence of partial AVP deficiency, it is important to monitor for the development of symptomatic polyuria after starting
