Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


optimally replaced should GH replacement be considered. As CAI may mask the presence of partial AVP deficiency, it is important to monitor for the development of symptomatic polyuria after starting glucocorticoid replacement therapy ( 147 ). For patients with CAI on GH replacement therapy, higher glucocorticoid doses may be needed because of the inhibitory effects of GH on the 1l beta-HSDl activity ( 173 ). Polypharmacy in elderly patients is common and possible interference of other drugs on glucocorticoid metabolism must be considered. Co-administration of drugs acting on CYP3A activity can interfere with glucocorticoid metabolism, causing increased glucocorticoid requirement (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin and rifampicin) or, conversely, increased glucocorticoid exposure (e.g., the azole antimycotics ketoconazole and itraconazole, macrolide antibiotics and calcium-channel antagonists) leading to glucocorticoid excess toxicity. Patients with glucocorticoid-induced CAI require the dosing to be tapered gradually to physiologic doses before further evaluation to test functional recovery of the HPA axis can be performed ( 162 ). Because there are no validated biomarkers to accurately assess the adequacy of glucocorticoid replacement, one must rely on evaluation of well-being, weight, physical examination to detect excess glucocorticoid features such as facial plethora, dorsocervical fat accumulation, skin thinning, and abdominal obesity. Fasting glucose and hemoglobin A1c levels can be used as indirect measures of adequate glucocorticoid replacement therapy. However, in elderly patients, evaluating these parameters can be difficult as the presence of age-related conditions like DM and hypertension may confound the interpretation of glucose and blood pressure readings, and physical examination findings may be subtle or masked. Additionally, clinicians should educate patients and caregivers about the importance of stress dosing with glucocorticoid administration during illness or surgery and ensure that they wear medical alert identification to inform healthcare providers of their dependence on glucocorticoid therapy in emergencies. Adrenal crisis is the most severe acute manifestation of adrenal insufficiency resulting in hypotension and hypoglycemia, with increased risk of cardiovascular events, acute renal injury and possibly death. Adults > 60 years are at the highest risk of adrenal crises and infection, falls and fractures are the most common precipitating factors of adrenal crisis ( 174 ). Rarely, concomitant therapies with CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin and rifampicin) can also enhance the metabolism of synthetic glucocorticoids, causing the induction of adrenal crisis. Emergent treatment of an adrenal crisis in the elderly is similar to that of younger patients, with parenteral hydrocortisone 100 mg bolus, followed by
