Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


causing the induction of adrenal crisis. Emergent treatment of an adrenal crisis in the elderly is similar to that of younger patients, with parenteral hydrocortisone 100 mg bolus, followed by intravenous (or intramuscular) boluses every 6 hours with subsequent dose reductions based on clinical response ( 174 ). Gonadotropin Deficiency in Men Central hypogonadism in aging men can present with symptoms such as low libido, erectile dysfunction, cognitive decline, depression, fatigue, osteoporosis, and loss of muscle mass and strength. Diagnostic work up starts with a morning, fasting serum testosterone measurement, considering that in elderly men, testosterone levels decrease between 15 and 20% over the course of 24 hours ( 175 ). Factors such as illness (acute and chronic), certain medications, food intake, weight gain and insufficient sleep can lower testosterone levels that potentially can be reversed when these factors are removed or resolved ( 176 , 177 ). While LC-MS/MS is the most accurate testing method for total T, this method is not universally available, and many laboratories use standardized immunoassays, which can show high correlation with LC-MS/MS within the adult male testosterone range, although the accuracy is lower for the hypogonadal range ( 178 ). In some cases, total testosterone may appear normal despite clinical signs of hypogonadism due to elevated sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), which increases with age and in conditions such as HIV, liver disease, hyperthyroidism, or use of anticonvulsants (phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine, valproate) ( 179 ). If testosterone is borderline low and symptoms are present, SHBG should be measured to calculate free testosterone. Direct measurements of free testosterone via equilibrium dialysis or ultrafiltration can be performed but are not widely available, while radioimmunoassays for free testosterone are unreliable. Nevertheless, hypogonadism is unlikely with total testosterone levels > 350 ng/dL, and more likely in patients with testosterone levels < 231 ng/dL ( 180 ). Central hypogonadism in older men is established by inappropriately low or low-normal LH and FSH levels. Prolactin should also be assessed, as hyperprolactinemia can suppress gonadotropin-releasing hormone and testosterone pulsatility ( 181 ). Differentiating between “andropause” and central hypogonadism can be challenging because both can present with similar hormonal profiles. However, the presence of additional pituitary hormone deficiencies or known hypothalamic-pituitary disease supports the diagnosis of central hypogonadism. In elderly men, it is important to consider an appropriate risk-to-benefit ratio before starting testosterone treatment in symptomatic patients ( 182 ). Benefits of treatment
