Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


the diagnosis of central hypogonadism. In elderly men, it is important to consider an appropriate risk-to-benefit ratio before starting testosterone treatment in symptomatic patients ( 182 ). Benefits of treatment in elderly men include improving well-being and sexual performance, maintaining bone mineral density, increasing muscle mass and improving quality of life and cognitive function ( 182 ). Although testosterone has been shown to produce anabolic effects in young and middle-aged men with hypogonadism, the data in elderly men remain limited. A significant increase in lean body mass in older people treated with testosterone for hypogonadism has been reported, despite biases in the selection of the patients ( 183 , 184 ). The most important benefits of testosterone replacement therapy have been reported in mobility, increased bone mineral density and improvement of anthropometric measurements ( 182 ). Different testosterone formulations can be used, depending on the patient’s preferences, local availability and insurance coverage. Transdermal systems of testosterone are potentially more appropriate for elderly men for quick adaption and avoidance of supraphysiological testosterone levels ( 180 ). An important side effect of testosterone gel treatment is the possibility of cross-transfer during contact with the skin’s surface. Therefore, to limit this inconvenience, a higher testosterone concentration preparation (1.6%-2.0%) may be preferred, as these preparations may allow lesser amounts of gel applied, thereby limiting the transfer risk. The adequacy of the therapy is confirmed by the improvement of clinical symptoms and of serum testosterone levels. In elderly men, it is reasonable to maintain circulating testosterone levels in the lower quartile of the normal range ( 180 ), and to monitor safety aspects of therapy such as prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and hematocrit, as testosterone therapy may result in prostatic hyperplasia but no excess cases of prostate cancer have been detected, and can induce erythropoiesis ( 185 , 186 ). There has been some controversy regarding testosterone replacement therapy and cardiovascular safety in hypogonadal men. Some observational studies have shown that testosterone increases the risk, others have reported a neutral effect ( 187 ). In a large retrospective study (n = 544,115) by Layton et al. ( 188 ), those treated with intramuscular testosterone had higher risk of cardiovascular events (1.26) and death (1.34) but not in those treated with testosterone gel or patch. Randomized trials further complicate the picture. While the Testosterone in Older Men with Mobility Limitations trial (TOM trial) reported more cardiovascular events
