Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


in those treated with testosterone gel or patch. Randomized trials further complicate the picture. While the Testosterone in Older Men with Mobility Limitations trial (TOM trial) reported more cardiovascular events with high-dose testosterone gel in older men with pre-existing cardiovascular conditions ( 189 ), another similar trial using lower doses of testosterone gel found no such increase ( 190 ). In randomized trial by Basaria et al. ( 191 ), no significant difference in atherosclerosis markers after 3 years of testosterone gel were observed, yet another randomized trial by Budoff et al. ( 192 ) demonstrated a greater increase in noncalcified plaque volume with testosterone treatment but no differences in the progression of coronary calcium scores. Despite these varied individual study outcomes, most meta-analyses of randomized clinical trials generally conclude no statistically significant increase in cardiovascular events with testosterone replacement therapy ( 193 - 198 ). Notably, one meta-analysis did highlight a significant increase in cardiovascular risk specifically with oral testosterone, while intramuscular and transcutaneous (gel or patch) deliveries did not show this elevation ( 199 ). Therefore, while evidence regarding specific formulations and dosages warrants careful consideration, particularly concerning oral testosterone and high-dose testosterone regimens, the consensus from meta-analyses of diverse testosterone replacement therapy methods points towards a generally neutral effect on cardiovascular risk. To further evaluate the effect of testosterone replacement therapy on cardiovascular disease, a large, randomized outcome trial like the Women’s Health Initiative is required. To attempt to answer this question, the TRAVERSE study (“Testosterone Replacement Therapy for Assessment of Long-term Vascular Events and Efficacy ResponSE in Hypogonadal Men”) was conducted that assessed hypogonadal men with pre-existing or a high risk of cardiovascular disease ( 200 ). This study found that testosterone therapy was non-inferior to placebo for the primary cardiovascular safety endpoint and no increased risk of prostate cancer, though some secondary endpoints showed increased rates of other events like atrial fibrillation, acute kidney injury, and pulmonary embolism in the testosterone-treated group ( 201 ). While these data are helpful and reassuring, it has several potential flaws that prevent it from being definitive, specifically its relatively small number of patients for a cardiovascular outcome study (n = 5,246 patients), the relatively short duration (mean treatment of 22 months), the large number of patients (61.4%) who discontinued testosterone, and modestly increased median testosterone levels of approximately 350 ng/dL. More recently, Lin et al. ( 202 )
