Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


of 22 months), the large number of patients (61.4%) who discontinued testosterone, and modestly increased median testosterone levels of approximately 350 ng/dL. More recently, Lin et al. ( 202 ) demonstrated no statistically significant association between testosterone replacement therapy and cardiovascular risk in hypogonadal men in real-world clinical practice, whereas other real-world studies conducted using claims data and electronic health records data demonstrated reduced risk of cardiovascular events under long-term exposure to testosterone therapy ( 203 , 204 ). While these studies are reassuring, overall, these studies have their individual limitations making it difficult to definitively rule out the association of testosterone replacement therapy on cardiovascular events in the elderly. However, if hypogonadism is caused by a prolactinoma, then dopamine agonist treatment can result in the recovery of gonadal function in about 60% ( 205 ). If hyperprolactinemia is related to the use of drugs, then withdrawal or the change to therapies without effects on prolactin levels will improve testosterone levels and sexual dysfunction ( 206 ). In terms of clinical application, current clinical practice recommendations prioritize the identification of men with classical or pathological hypogonadism due to diseases of the hypothalamus, pituitary or testes ( 185 ). In such men, testosterone treatment resolves symptoms and signs of testosterone deficiency ( 185 ). In men with classical or pathological hypogonadism the benefits of testosterone treatment likely outweigh possible cardiovascular risks. In any case, individualized assessment and management of cardiovascular risk factors and disease should be part of routine clinical care. Until more evidence is available, it may be prudent to adopt a cautious approach in older men who are frail or who have pre-existing cardiovascular disease, and to optimize management of cardiovascular risk factors first before starting testosterone treatment. Treatment should aim for physiological replacement of testosterone using approved formulations and avoiding excessive testosterone doses ( 185 ), should not be used in older men with significant cardiovascular diseases and caution exercised in those with benign prostatic hyperplasia ( 182 ). Gonadotropin Deficiency in Women Aging in women is associated with progressive decline in fertility, reflecting the reduction in ovarian follicle number and quality, and the cessation of monthly menstrual cycles. Consequently, symptoms (e.g., vasomotor symptoms, genitourinary syndrome of menopause, disordered mood, sleep disruption, sexual disorders) and systemic effects (amenorrhea, bone loss, metabolic syndrome, increased cardiovascular risk, cognitive decline) may arise, and in some women, can be severe and debilitating
