Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


disordered mood, sleep disruption, sexual disorders) and systemic effects (amenorrhea, bone loss, metabolic syndrome, increased cardiovascular risk, cognitive decline) may arise, and in some women, can be severe and debilitating ( 207 ). During menopause, women will also experience deterioration in lipid profiles, accelerated cardiovascular risk, adverse changes in body composition including more central (i.e. visceral) distribution of adipose tissue, accelerated lumbar spine BMD loss, and negative effects on sleep, cognition, and mood ( 208 , 209 ). On the other hand, vasomotor symptoms are caused by changes in hypothalamic thermoregulation ( 210 ). Although formulations, routes of administration, and dosages of menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) have expanded in recent years, its primary indication for women experiencing natural menopause remains the management of symptoms (e.g., vasomotor symptoms and genitourinary syndrome of menopause). Specifically for vasomotor symptoms, evidence-based treatments include MHT, non-hormonal prescription medications and mind-body interventions such as cognitive behavioral therapy and hypnosis ( 211 ). Recently, there is emerging evidence that MHT initiated within a decade of the onset of perimenopause has been associated with several long-term health benefits, including reduced vasomotor symptoms, without significantly affecting cardiovascular disease amongst younger postmenopausal women aged 50 to 59 years ( 212 ). Menopausal hormone therapy has also been associated with a 25% to 50% reduction in fatal cardiovascular events ( 213 ), a 50% to 60% reduction in bone fractures ( 214 ), a 64% reduction in cognitive decline ( 215 ), and a 35% decreased risk of Alzheimer disease ( 216 ). With these recent developments, decisions regarding the optimal choice for an individual woman should incorporate her degree of symptom bother, personal preferences, pre-existing cardiovascular disease and breast cancer risk assessments and uterine status ( 217 ). Treatment of genitourinary syndrome of menopause includes over-the-counter moisturizers and lubricants, vaginal estrogens, DHEA, and oral ospemifene ( 211 ). Because testosterone therapy is not approved for women by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), titration of approved therapies dosed for men has been recommended only for treatment of hypoactive sexual desire disorders in women ( 218 ). Prevention of osteoporosis is another approved indication of MHT for postmenopausal women at risk of osteoporosis for whom other approved therapies are neither tolerated nor appropriate. In contrast, the results of secondary coronary heart disease (CHD) prevention trials have been disappointing ( 219 - 221 ). In contrast to anticipated CHD benefit
