Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


neither tolerated nor appropriate. In contrast, the results of secondary coronary heart disease (CHD) prevention trials have been disappointing ( 219 - 221 ). In contrast to anticipated CHD benefit based upon myriad observational studies, trials revealed an increase in myocardial infarction within the first year of therapy, and failure to decrease CHD events or coronary atherosclerosis progression ( 222 ). While bone loss is accelerated during menopause, primarily affecting trabecular bone, estrogen therapy or alternatives like bisphosphonates and raloxifene can help preserve bone mineral density and decrease fracture risk ( 223 , 224 ). However, there has been considerable debate about the risk: benefit ratio of MHT after the publication of the results from the Women’s Health Initiative study ( 225 ). The Women’s Health Initiative clinical trials were initiated in 1992 to determine whether MHT (conjugated equine estrogens [CEE] ± medroxyprogesterone acetate [MPA]), depending upon uterine status), when started in healthy women ages 50 to 79 at enrollment, reduced the incidence of chronic diseases of aging (myocardial infarction and CHD death, osteoporosis, colon cancer) while evaluating safety outcomes (stroke, venous thromboembolic disease, breast and endometrial cancer) ( 226 ). The combined therapy arm was halted after 5.6 years, and the estrogen-only arm after 7.2 years, because overall risks (increased stroke in both trials and heart attack, pulmonary emboli, and breast cancer in the combined arm) exceeded preventive benefits (reduced fractures, colon cancer and DM) ( 227 ). Subsequent analyses showed a more favorable benefit/risk profile in younger women (ages 50 to 59) or those closer (<10 years) to menopause, whereas stroke risk increased when MHT was initiated > age 60 ( 220 ), dementia risk increased > age 65 ( 226 ), and CHD events increased > age 70 ( 220 ). All-cause mortality decreased by 21% in those ages 50 to 59 at enrollment in the CEE-alone arm ( 228 ), with maximal mortality benefit—a 40% decrease—for those with bilateral oophorectomy < age 45 ( 229 ). Breast cancer outcomes at 13 years of cumulative follow-up showed persistence of the significant 28% increase in breast cancer risk with combined therapy initially reported at trial termination ( 227 ). By contrast, a 21% decrease with CEE alone became statistically significant ( 227 ). At 20 years of cumulative follow-up, these findings persisted, with the added caveat that breast cancer mortality—without effect in the combined therapy arm—was significantly reduced
