Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


statistically significant ( 227 ). At 20 years of cumulative follow-up, these findings persisted, with the added caveat that breast cancer mortality—without effect in the combined therapy arm—was significantly reduced in the CEE-alone arm ( 230 ). These findings reflect the complexities of these specific hormone preparations on breast cancer incidence and mortality and should not be extrapolated to other MHT preparations. Observational studies do not suggest that estradiol administration inhibits breast cancer, whereas progesterone may have less breast cancer–stimulating effects than MPA ( 211 ). The paucity of randomized controlled trials safety evidence means that MHT is usually not prescribed for women with a history of breast cancer and symptom relief with non-hormonal options is recommended ( 211 , 231 ). Due to the lack of adequately powered randomized controlled trials, observational studies and meta-analyses provide some evidence that safety outcomes, particularly for venous thromboembolic disease and possibly stroke risks, improved with lower doses and transdermal estradiol preparations ( 211 ). After the initial reports of the Women’s Health Initiative, limiting MHT to 3 to 5 years was recommended to minimize breast cancer risk. Both the North American Menopause Society and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists subsequently issued statements allowing for longer duration of MHT in healthy women ≥ age 65 without contraindications, following an annual discussion of anticipated risks and benefits, and reevaluation of individual health status ( 232 , 233 ). For women who prefer to continue MHT for an extended time, shared decision making, progressive dose reductions and switching to transdermal from oral preparations are recommended ( 211 ). Nevertheless, the investigators of the Women’s Health Initiative have recently reported subgroup analyses of the age-specific impact of MHT on atherosclerotic cardiovascular outcomes among women with moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms ( 212 ) who may have a higher underlying risk of cardiovascular disease but also the strongest clinical indication for MHT. These analyses indicated that MHT was associated with greatest cardiovascular disease risk in women with vasomotor symptoms in their 70s but did not detect any increased risk for cardiovascular events with MHT use in younger women with vasomotor symptoms. These data provide reassuring evidence that symptomatic younger postmenopausal women are at low risk of cardiovascular complications with MHT. Because menopause is not a simple estrogen deficiency state but a multisystem biological and psychological transition, no one medication or treatment, including MHT ( 234
