Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


of cardiovascular complications with MHT. Because menopause is not a simple estrogen deficiency state but a multisystem biological and psychological transition, no one medication or treatment, including MHT ( 234 ), can eliminate or prevent all menopausal manifestations or related health changes. Hence, there is a need to broaden menopause management beyond MHT that leverages a multidisciplinary care approach and incorporates other evidence-based treatments and behavioral strategies tailored to the individual woman’s needs. Thus, recent analyses and observational studies have highlighted the importance of initiating MHT within 10 years of onset of menopause or under 60 years for bothersome menopausal symptoms ( 235 ). Timing of initiation is critical in determining the risk-benefit ratio ( 230 , 236 ). Compared with the 63-year-old average age in the Women’s Health Initiative trials, women who present with new onset of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms needing treatment tend to be younger than 60 years. Data from this cohort of younger women suggest that initiating hormone therapy within 10 years of menopause reduces all-cause mortality in the subsequent decade. This age-dependent differential risk has prompted renewed appraisal to support a more nuanced interpretation of MHT’s benefit-risk balance. The FDA has acknowledged these developments by recognizing the need to revisit hormone therapy labeling and has removed the boxed warnings from all combined estrogen-progestogen, estrogen alone, other estrogen containing and progestogen only products. The evidence basis for the labeling changes included a comprehensive FDA evaluation of Women’s Health Initiative and post- Women’s Health Initiative publications, with particular attention to evidence related to timing, duration, and risks associated with MHT use during the earlier postmenopausal years ( 230 , 236 ).The FDA’s hormone therapy label updates include removal of boxed warnings (cardiovascular disease, stroke, breast cancer, probable dementia), except for the boxed warning in systemic estrogen labels for endometrial cancer with unopposed estrogen in women with a uterus, removal of the recommendation to prescribe hormone therapy at the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration and treatment decisions are individualized after discussions with the patient, tailored safety information, emphasis on the safety findings most relevant to topical vaginal use and not the broader warnings associated with systemic exposure and timing information for systemic hormone therapy of including updated guidance on initiating treatment in women younger than 60 years or within 10 years of menopause onset to optimize the benefit-risk balance. These labeling revisions signal a shift
