Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


including updated guidance on initiating treatment in women younger than 60 years or within 10 years of menopause onset to optimize the benefit-risk balance. These labeling revisions signal a shift towards more nuanced, evidence-based communication of hormone therapy risks; one that prioritizes clinical relevance, distinguishes between different formulations and patient populations, and balances the narrative to reflect both safety and therapeutic value. The goal of these changes is to guide appropriately tailored hormone therapy use and optimize individualized care. TSH Deficiency Hypothyroid symptoms are non-specific and often overlap with symptoms of aging, including tiredness, weight gain, depression, cold intolerance, constipation, and poor concentration that may be overlooked by both physicians and patients. Careful drug review should always be conducted in the elderly before the diagnosis of central hypothyroidism, as they often present with increased comorbidities and polypharmacy. A number of medications can affect the thyroid function tests by interfering with the synthesis, transport, and metabolism of TSH and thyroid hormones, and thyroid function immunoassays. In the elderly, if central hypothyroidism is suspected based on clinical history, thyroid function tests, pituitary MRI and evaluation of other pituitary hormones are indicated. Detection of low free thyroxine levels with inappropriately normal or low TSH levels is sufficient to confirm the diagnosis. Circulating free triiodothyronine (FT3) levels are less useful, because they can be influenced by intercurrent diseases, which can cause the “low T3 syndrome”, whereas for the interpretation of TSH levels, it is important to exclude possible interferences by drugs that can suppress TSH. Glucocorticoids are frequently prescribed to elderly patients and high cortisol levels reduce TRH expression and TSH secretion causing a pattern of central hypothyroidism ( 237 ). Other drugs that directly suppress TSH secretion are dopamine agonist and somatostatin analogues ( 44 ), while anti-epileptic medications carbamazepine and valproic acid can increase thyroid metabolism and suppress TSH. Acute, chronic and debilitating illnesses can affect thyroid function tests causing low thyroid hormones (total T3 and T3) and low/low-normal TSH, where “non-thyroidal illness” should be considered, and in such cases, thyroid hormone replacement is generally not recommended ( 238 ). It is important for physicians to inquire about biotin intake because an intake of 10 mg a day to interferes with measurements of T4, T3 and TSH ( 239 ). and can lead also to erroneous values that incorrectly indicate the presence of hyperthyroidism ( 240 ) prompting physicians to undertake inappropriate
