Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


of T4, T3 and TSH ( 239 ). and can lead also to erroneous values that incorrectly indicate the presence of hyperthyroidism ( 240 ) prompting physicians to undertake inappropriate management decisions. Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice for central hypothyroidism, and liothyronine (LT3), thyroid extracts and other thyroid hormone supplements are generally not recommended ( 147 ). However, before initiating levothyroxine treatment, it is important to treat with glucocorticoid replacement therapy first if CAI is present, to avoid precipitating adrenal crisis ( 147 ). We recommend a more conservative treatment regimen of levothyroxine in the elderly, with lower doses at initiation and more gradual dose titration to minimize the risk of precipitating possible cardiac arrhythmias. Levothyroxine can be started at 0.25-0.5 mcg/kg/day and the dose gradually increased over 6-8 weeks to target fT4 levels between mid to the upper half of the reference range and guided by clinical symptoms ( 241 ). If overtreatment is suspected and fT4 levels are within the reference range, fT3 can be assessed ( 241 ). Other considerations pertinent to the elderly patient include increased levothyroxine dosing if the patient is also on GH and estrogen therapy, and therapies for other comorbidities that may affect levothyroxine absorption (e.g., calcium and iron supplements) and dose requirements (e.g., amiodarone and anti-epileptics). Body Water Deficiency HYPERNATREMIA WITH AGING Hypernatremia reflects an increase in plasma osmolality. Hospitalized older patients and older residents of long-term care facilities show incidences of hypernatremia that vary between 0.3% and 8.9% ( 242 ). While hypernatremia is a common presenting diagnosis in older individuals, 60% to 80% of cases in older populations occur after hospital admission ( 243 ). As hypernatremia develops, normal physiologic responses preserve water homeostasis through osmotically stimulated secretion of AVP to promote renal water conservation along with accompanying potent stimulation of thirst to restore body water deficits ( 104 ). Although renal water conservation can mitigate the development of severe hyperosmolality, only appropriate stimulation of thirst with subsequent increase in water ingestion can replace body fluid deficits thereby reversing hyperosmolality ( 244 ). This physiologic response is impaired with aging, whereby older patients have a decreased thirst perception ( 95 ), and blunted ability to maximally concentrate their urine in response to AVP ( 245 ). An additional factor that can cause or exacerbate hypernatremia in hospitalized older patients is osmotic diuresis from mobilization of urea following hydration for
