Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


in response to AVP ( 245 ). An additional factor that can cause or exacerbate hypernatremia in hospitalized older patients is osmotic diuresis from mobilization of urea following hydration for pre- renal azotemia, increased protein load from parenteral or enteral nutrition, and increased tissue catabolism ( 246 ). Thus, older individuals have a greatly increased susceptibility to a variety of situations that can induce hypernatremia and hyperosmolality, with the attendant increases in morbidity and mortality ( 247 , 248 ). The clinical implications of hypernatremia in hospitalized older individuals are significant. One hundred and sixty two hypernatremic older patients admitted for acute hospital care to a community teaching hospital had a serum [Na+] >148 mmol/L, and their all-cause mortality was 7 times greater in hypernatremic than age-matched normonatremic patients and 38% of the hypernatremic patients who survived to discharge had a significantly decreased ability to provide self-care ( 248 ). In intensive care units, hypernatremia is associated with increased mortality with adjusted odd ratios for mortality ranging between 2 to 3 ( 248 ). Treatment of Hypernatremia Adequate hydration is critical in preventing hyperosmolality and hypernatremia in older patients. Aggressive hydration with hypotonic fluids (D5W or D5/0.5 NSS) is indicated to lower the serum [Na+] to normal levels in the first 48 hours of hospital admission. A retrospective study of 449 patients hospitalized with a serum [Na+] >155 mmol/L showed no evidence that rapid correction of hypernatremia (>0.5 mmol/L/h) was associated with a higher risk for mortality, seizure, alteration of consciousness, and/ or cerebral edema in critically ill adult patients with either admission or hospital-acquired hypernatremia ( 249 ). Older patients with an established AVP deficiency should be treated with desmopressin, similarly to younger patients ( 250 ). Because of age-related decreases in glomerular filtration rate that increase the susceptibility of desmopressin-induced hyponatremia in the elderly, conservative desmopressin dosing is recommended. No recent clinical trials on the efficacy and safety of acute and chronic treatments for hypernatremia in older individuals have been published. Only one study has been published on desmopressin treatment for nocturia ( 251 ), where older individuals are at higher risk for development of hyponatremia even with a single night-time low dose of desmopressin ( 252 ), especially in older females because of increased desmopressin response due to increased renal vasopressin V2 receptor expression ( 253 ). PITUITARY HORMONE EXCESS STATES IN THE ELDERLY Hyperprolactinemia and Prolactinomas
