Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


especially in older females because of increased desmopressin response due to increased renal vasopressin V2 receptor expression ( 253 ). PITUITARY HORMONE EXCESS STATES IN THE ELDERLY Hyperprolactinemia and Prolactinomas Prolactinomas in the elderly are rare ( 254 ), and usually present as macroadenomas with atypical features, thus posing a diagnostic challenge. Unlike prolactinomas diagnosed in the premenopausal period, which often present with symptoms such as menstrual irregularities, galactorrhea, or infertility, most women diagnosed with prolactinomas after menopause typically do not report specific complaints. Symptoms related to hyperprolactinemia in postmenopausal women are often absent due to the natural decline in estrogen,. The majority of prolactinomas after menopause are macroadenomas causing mass effects and infrequently galactorrhea (37.5%) ( 255 ), whereas microadenomas are more commonly reported in premenopausal women. The most common symptoms of macroprolactinomas in postmenopausal women are visual field disturbances and headache, but also other atypical presentations such as impaired hearing, hemiparesis, dementia, and new-onset epilepsy have been reported ( 256 ). In a study by Santharam et al. ( 257 ), acute pituitary apoplexy was diagnosed at presentation or during follow-up in 18% of 17 patients diagnosed with a prolactinoma in the postmenopausal period at a median age of 63 years. Most are asymptomatic (subclinical apoplexy) and resolve spontaneously ( 258 ). In men, macroprolactinomas are diagnosed at an older age than in women with microprolactinomas ( 255 ), and may represent the natural course of an untreated prolactinoma. Cabergoline is the first-line therapy for macroprolactinomas diagnosed at menopause, and in most patients it is highly effective in terms of both hormonal and tumoral responses and with better outcomes with pituitary function ( 255 ). Cabergoline can achieve remission maintenance after cessation of 5 years of therapy in patients with macroprolactinomas ( 259 ), with factors favoring remission including absence of cavernous sinus invasion, lower serum prolactin levels before therapy, and low nadir serum prolactin on cabergoline therapy prior to withdrawal ( 260 ). Menopause facilitates the remission of hyperprolactinemia in women with prolactinoma and may be seen in about 50% of patients after dopamine agonist withdrawal ( 257 ). The most commonly used definitions of dopamine agonist resistance include failure to normalize prolactin and/or to achieve at least 50% tumor shrinkage with maximal conventional doses of cabergoline (2 mg/week). In a retrospective study of a large cohort of patients with macroprolactinomas, 19.6% of the patients received doses
