Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


least 50% tumor shrinkage with maximal conventional doses of cabergoline (2 mg/week). In a retrospective study of a large cohort of patients with macroprolactinomas, 19.6% of the patients received doses of cabergoline > 2 mg/week ( 261 ). The dose of cabergoline increased to 8 mg/week in order to normalize prolactin, and 10% of the patients still had partial resistance to cabergoline where prolactin levels were not normalized. Even higher doses of cabergoline (11 mg/week) have been suggested in order to overcome resistance to treatment ( 262 ). In a study by Santharam et al. ( 257 ) on the long-term outcomes of discontinuation of dopamine agonist treatment in women with prolactinoma after menopause, residual adenoma regrowth was detected in 7% (2 out of 22) of the patients. The role of surgery in patients with macroprolactinomas is difficult to establish, and indications include cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea, pituitary apoplexy, and tumor progression or regrowth despite medical treatment ( 263 ). Radiotherapy may be used postoperatively in proliferative tumors but is associated with hypopituitarism. In one meta-analysis, recurrence of hyperprolactinemia after discontinuation of dopamine agonist treatment was observed in 32% of patients with idiopathic hyperprolactinemia, 21% of patients with microprolactinomas and 10-% of patients with macroprolactinomas ( 264 ). Recommendations from the Pituitary Society guidelines are that, after > 2 years of successful treatment (normal prolactin and disappearance of the tumor), dopamine agonist therapy can be tapered and discontinued ( 265 ) as menopause may facilitate normalization of prolactin. However, menopause does not ensure remission in tumor growth, particularly in invasive macroprolactinomas. As for patients with microprolactinomas, dopamine agonist therapy should proactively be withdrawn regardless of the possibility of recurrence of hyperprolactinemia. A major limitation of this strategy is the lack of published literature on outcomes in patients with prolactinomas after dopamine agonist treatment withdrawal. Cushing’s Disease and Syndrome Cushing’s disease (CD) is most commonly diagnosed in women in their 40s–50s, with a female-to-male ratio of 2.3–4:1 ( 266 ). However, due to increasing life expectancy in the general population ( 108 ), diagnoses in older individuals are becoming more evident. In women < 45 years, CD is more prevalent, whereas adrenal-dependent Cushing’s syndrome (CS) has increasingly becomes more common in individuals > 65 years ( 266 ). Additionally, in older patients, the typical female predominance declines, likely due to reduced estrogen levels after menopause. These patients also more frequently present with
