Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


> 65 years ( 266 ). Additionally, in older patients, the typical female predominance declines, likely due to reduced estrogen levels after menopause. These patients also more frequently present with pituitary macroadenomas ( 267 ). The clinical presentation of CS differs in elderly in several aspects compared to younger patients. Advancing age is associated with increasing comorbidities (e.g., hypertension, DM, osteoporosis, obstructive sleep apnea, cognitive dysfunction, venous thromboembolism, and GHD), lower BMI but more visceral fat, frailty due to muscle weakness and wasting, all of which are exacerbated by sarcopenia, increased rates of postoperative thromboembolic disease, Knosp grade, tumor size, and postoperative cortisol and ACTH nadirs ( 267 , 268 ). Depression and anxiety are underdiagnosed in the elderly due to its atypical presentation. In comparison, advancing age is associated with decreased hallmark CD features, preoperative 24-hour urinary free cortisol, Ki-67 indices, and AVP deficiency ( 267 , 268 ), whereas younger patients present more frequently with weight gain, facial rounding/plethora, abdominal striae, hirsutism, menstrual irregularities, dorsocervical fat pad, and acne ( 269 ). Hence, diagnosing CS in older adults is often more challenging as many symptoms overlap with normal aging ( Table 3 ). Hormonal changes with age further complicate testing. Urinary free cortisol (UFC) and plasma cortisol production increase with age, but studies show mixed results regarding age-related differences in late-night salivary cortisol (LNSC) and other hormone levels. Age-related comorbidities, impaired kidney and liver function, smoking and medications can influence UFC and LNSC test accuracy. Furthermore, there is the apparent loss of feedback in elderly subjects, which may be due to alterations in the glucocorticoid receptor sensitivity in the hippocampus that is linked to age-related cell loss, the potential effect of interfering concomitant drugs (e.g., phenobarbital, phenytoin, and carbamazepine), malabsorption, and the underlying presence of depression and anxiety ( 269 ). To improve the diagnostic accuracy for CS, three clinical risk scoring systems have been proposed in Spanish ( 270 ), Italian ( 271 ) and United States cohorts ( 272 ); however, these scoring systems have not been formally validated in elderly patients. Table 3. Challenges in the Management of Cushing Syndrome in the Elderly View in own window Diagnosis Lack of typical Cushing syndrome symptoms (e.g., skin changes, weigh gain) Overlap of some symptoms/comorbidities that might be related to Cushing syndrome and aging (e.g., hypertension, diabetes mellitus, muscle weakness, cognitive impairment and catabolic state) Multiple factors
