Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


patients are more affected by fatigue, muscle weakness, cognitive issues, and depression, which often persist despite treatment ( 269 ). Acromegaly Due to increasing life expectancy in the general population ( 108 ), recent studies have shown an increase in the incidence and prevalence of acromegaly in the elderly ( 274 , 275 ). Essentially, elderly acromegaly patients can be divided into two groups: those with a new diagnosis > 65 years of age and those with early-onset acromegaly who have grown older over time ( 276 , 277 ). In older acromegaly patients, IGF-I levels are usually lower, and the clinical phenotype is milder than in younger patients, making the diagnosis more challenging. In a series of 96 patients reported by Ceccato et al. ( 278 ), 13 (14%) of newly diagnosed cases of patients were > 65 years and had relatively low IGF-I levels. Among these patients, 11 (85%) of them were initially treated with medical therapy and half normalized their IGF-I levels after 6 months without undergoing pituitary surgery. Moreover, acromegaly is commonly associated with several complications, such as DM, renal impairment, and musculoskeletal disorders that may independently lower IGF-I levels ( 279 - 281 ). Consequently, an older patient with acromegaly may present with IGF-I values within the reference range or only marginally elevated. Consistent with this, previous studies have described older adults with acromegaly and normal or even low IGF-I levels ( 282 , 283 ). Additionally, the characteristic facial changes, arthralgias, asthenia, paresthesia and sensation of enlargement of the lower limbs may be more subtle than younger patients ( 276 , 277 ), which may lead to the confusion with features of normal aging and contribute to the delay in diagnosis. Visual abnormalities may also be confused with symptoms of age-related eye diseases such as cataracts, macular degeneration and vascular eye diseases ( 284 , 285 ). Therefore, the clinical picture may be confounded with features associated with aging and clinicians will need to be aware of the nuances associated with elderly compared with younger acromegaly patients ( Table 4 ). Table 4. Clinical features, Complications and Response to Treatment of Elderly Patients with Acromegaly View in own window Clinical phenotype Milder in elderly vs. younger patients Tumor size Smaller tumors in elderly vs younger patients Basal GH and IGF-I levels and post-OGTT GH nadir levels Lower in elderly vs. younger patients Hypertension, glucose
