Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


vs. younger patients Tumor size Smaller tumors in elderly vs younger patients Basal GH and IGF-I levels and post-OGTT GH nadir levels Lower in elderly vs. younger patients Hypertension, glucose metabolism abnormalities and arthropathies More frequent in elderly patients vs age-matched controls Left ventricular hypertrophy Characteristic of elderly patients Risk of diabetes mellitus, hypertension and cancer Age-related Arthropathy and vertebral fracture risk Not age-related Surgery Safe but increased comorbidity and anesthetic risk Somatostatin receptor ligand treatment Better treatment response in elderly vs younger patients, but close attention to blood glucose, especially with the use of pasireotide, and gastrointestinal symptoms due to higher prevalence of biliary tract disease, is essential Pegvisomant treatment In older patients, close monitoring of liver and renal function tests is recommended due to higher prevalence of pre-existing chronic liver and renal disease Acromegaly-related comorbidities (e.g., colon polyps, thyroid cancer, obstructive sleep apnea, hypertension, and rheumatologic complications) are more prevalent in the elderly than in younger patients ( 278 ). In fact, changes in carbohydrate metabolism and hypertension in the elderly can be considered as related to aging itself, and therefore the diagnosis of acromegaly may be missed ( 285 ). The estimated prevalence of DM in acromegaly is higher in patients > 65 years than in younger patients (27%-86% vs. 19%-56%) ( 286 ), and the most characteristic predisposing factors for DM were older age, longer duration of acromegaly, and family history of DM ( 287 , 288 ). In older patients, congestive heart failure as end-stage acromegalic cardiomyopathy occurs more frequently ( 287 ). It is suggested that aging and long duration of exposure to GH excess are key determinants of cardiac abnormalities ( 289 , 290 ). Interestingly, in elderly acromegaly patients the frequency of rheumatologic complications (arthralgia, carpal tunnel or osteoarthritis) does not seem to be different from the elderly population without acromegaly ( 291 ). This finding may be explained by the prevalence of these complaints in the general elderly population, as well as by the inaccuracy of questionnaires addressing this issue. Elderly patients with acromegaly also exhibited a higher frequency of impaired cognitive functions, reduced mobility, difficulty in performing daily activities, and dementia, as compared with their age-matched counterparts without acromegaly ( 292 ). In terms of quality of life, Yamamoto et al . ( 293 ) reported different factors affected older vs younger patients, with arthropathy, higher BMI, treatment modalities and
