Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


292 ). In terms of quality of life, Yamamoto et al . ( 293 ) reported different factors affected older vs younger patients, with arthropathy, higher BMI, treatment modalities and hydrocortisone replacement therapy being important factors in contributing to the impairment of disease-specific quality of life in older patients. Given the appropriate clinical and neuroradiological context, the diagnosis of new or recurrent acromegaly is primarily based on the determination of circulating levels of IGF-I ( 294 ). Circulating IGF-I levels decline with increasing age in acromegaly ( 295 , 296 ); therefore age-dependent IGF-I cutoffs are required to aid diagnosis in the elderly. Additionally, IGF-I levels are potentially influenced by DM, chronic kidney disease, liver diseases, insulin resistance and nutritional deficiencies ( 297 ), all of which are more prevalent in the elderly. However, some patients with acromegaly can show persistent or intermittent discordance between GH and IGF-I after undergoing pituitary surgery ( 298 , 299 ), and age yields a highly significant effect on the serum GH/IGF-I relationship such that for a given serum GH value, older patients might show lower serum IGF-I values ( 296 ). Therefore, clinicians should proceed with caution in using solely IGF-I levels to diagnose acromegaly in the elderly, and evaluation of the GH suppression oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) as a complementary laboratory investigation in doubtful cases is recommended ( 294 ). The introduction of ultrasensitive chemiluminescent assays for GH has led to the adoption of a lower GH threshold of 0.4 μg/L ( 300 ). However, an equivocal GH response to the OGTT can be seen in association with aging. Considering that basal GH levels are lower in the elderly and that this trend is maintained in acromegalic patients, numerous studies showed that post-OGTT nadir GH negatively correlates with age. In a cohort of naive acromegalic patients (19–77 years), baseline GH and IGF-I levels and GH nadir levels after OGTT were lower in patients with an age >60 years ( 285 ). A potential caveat to consider is that elderly patients show higher incidence of DM and cannot undergo the OGTT; in these cases, the diurnal GH profile could represent an alternative approach. In a cohort of patients undergoing pituitary surgery for acromegaly, the assessment of disease remission by the GH profile showed different cutoffs in older compared to middle-aged patients (1.4 vs. 2.3 μg/L) ( 301 ). Therefore, age appears to
