Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


acromegaly, the assessment of disease remission by the GH profile showed different cutoffs in older compared to middle-aged patients (1.4 vs. 2.3 μg/L) ( 301 ). Therefore, age appears to be a fundamental factor to be considered in the diagnosis and evaluation of acromegaly activity. Following biochemical diagnosis, contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the sellar region is required to assess tumor size, localization, and invasiveness ( 300 ). Gadolinium enhancement should however be used with caution or be avoided in patients with renal impairment. If MRI is contraindicated or unavailable, pituitary computerized tomography can be performed ( 300 ). Despite some data pointing to smaller tumors in older acromegaly population ( 302 ), this finding has not been confirmed by most studies ( 276 , 277 , 284 ). Although to date there are no published studies that have directly compared histopathological features of GH-secreting adenomas between elderly and non-elderly patients, several reports suggest age-related differences in tumor subtypes and clinical behavior. Additionally, previous studies also demonstrated a trend towards the diagnosis of sparsely granulated (SG) adenomas compared with densely granulated (DG) adenomas in younger acromegaly patients ( 303 , 304 ). Cuevas-Ramos et al . ( 305 ) in a large retrospective study of 338 acromegaly patients, found a group of individuals with smaller, less aggressive DG tumors with a higher expression of SSTR2 and a higher mean age at diagnosis. These findings suggest a correlation between tumor granulation pattern and age, with SG tumors linked to younger age and more aggressive behavior, and DG tumors associated with older age and more favorable treatment responsiveness. Transsphenoidal surgery has been shown to be a safe treatment modality for elderly patients with acromegaly ( 286 ). However, transsphenoidal surgery and radiotherapy tend to be performed less commonly, whereas primary medical treatment was offered more frequently in elderly compared to younger subjects. It is likely that elderly patients are poorer surgical candidates due to the increased age- and acromegaly-related comorbidities, and radiotherapy is not often considered because of its delayed effects over months to years in decreasing GH secretion. Increased cancer risk in acromegaly continues to be a matter of debate ( 306 , 307 ), as the relationship between the oncological risk and excess GH exposure in acromegaly has yet to be fully elucidated. The utility of pegvisomant, a GH receptor antagonist approved by the FDA for the treatment
