Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


the oncological risk and excess GH exposure in acromegaly has yet to be fully elucidated. The utility of pegvisomant, a GH receptor antagonist approved by the FDA for the treatment of acromegaly, as a targeted intervention on GH action to improve the prognosis of cancer has recently been proposed but requires further clarification ( 308 ). Conversely, a recent study by Pascual-Corrales et al. ( 309 ) of 604 acromegaly patients (median age 48.5 years) having undergone transsphenoidal surgery demonstrated that remission of preoperative DM was more commonly seen in older patients, especially in those that did not develop postoperative hypopituitarism. These investigators postulated that because older patients tend to be more insulin resistant at muscle level, the decrease in insulin resistance after surgery as reported by Moller et al. ( 310 ) is an important factor in the improvement of postoperative glucose metabolism. Regarding cardiovascular comorbidities, the increased prevalence of hypertension with aging could also be a contributing factor ( 311 ) rather than the greater prevalence of hypertension in acromegaly ( 312 ). Hence, the prevalence of some of the more common acromegaly-related comorbidities is higher in elderly patients, especially when longer follow-up is performed. Hyponatremia Hyponatremia is the most common electrolyte disorder in clinical practice ( 313 ), especially when accompanied by plasma hypo- osmolality. When hyponatremia is defined as a serum [Na+] of < 135 mmol/L, the inpatient incidence is reported to be between 15% and 22%. Studies that define hyponatremia as a serum [Na+] < 130 mmol/L demonstrate a lower, yet still significant, incidence of 1% to 4% ( 314 ). The incidence of hyponatremia in older populations varies between 0.2% and 29.8%, depending on the criteria used ( 242 ). The most common causes of hyponatremia in older individuals are SIAD, drug therapy, and decreased solute intake. SIAD can be caused by many types of diseases and injuries more common in older individuals, including central nervous system injury and degeneration, pulmonary diseases, paraneoplastic malignancy, nausea, pain, and an idiopathic form of SIAD. Studies have demonstrated that SIAD accounts for approximately 50% to 59% of the hyponatremia observed in some older populations, and 26% to 60% of older patients with SIAD appear to have the idiopathic form of this disorder ( 315 , 316 ). Some drugs commonly used in the elderly have been associated with SIAD, including many antipsychotic, antidepressant, and antiepileptic drugs (
