Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


idiopathic form of this disorder ( 315 , 316 ). Some drugs commonly used in the elderly have been associated with SIAD, including many antipsychotic, antidepressant, and antiepileptic drugs ( 317 ). The drug class most commonly implicated in causing hyponatremia is thiazide diuretics, which does not cause SIAD but rather secondary AVP secretion due to solute depletion and baroreceptor stimulation ( 318 ). Hyponatremia in older individuals is frequently associated with multiple clinically significant outcomes including neurocognitive effects and falls ( 319 ), hospital readmission and need for long-term care ( 320 ), incidence of bone fractures ( 321 ), and osteoporosis ( 322 ). Hyponatremia is a strong independent predictor of mortality, reported to be as high as 60% in some series ( 323 ). In a study of the association between asymptomatic hyponatremia and gait instability, falls and attention deficits, a subset of 12 patients with hyponatremia secondary to SIAD with [Na+] in the range of 124 to 130 mmol/L demonstrated significant gait instability that normalized with correction of hyponatremia ( 324 )). The effect of hyponatremia on bone quality has also been demonstrated between chronic hyponatremia and metabolic bone loss, with chronic hyponatremia associated with odds ratios of 4.0 for osteoporosis and 3.0 for fractures ( 325 ). Thus, hyponatremia-induced bone resorption and associated osteoporosis are unique in that they represent attempts of the body to preserve sodium homeostasis at the expense of bone structural integrity. TREATMENT OF HYPONATREMIA Treatment of hypo-osmolality and hyponatremia in the elderly generally should follow the same guidelines as in younger patients, particularly with regards to the limits of daily correction of serum [Na+] to avoid the osmotic demyelination syndrome. Fluid restriction is usually the first therapy employed, but has limited efficacy with mean increases in serum [Na+] in the range of 3 to 5 mmol/L in randomized controlled trials ( 326 ). If pharmacologic treatment is necessary, urea, furosemide in combination with sodium chloride tablets, demeclocycline and vasopressin receptor antagonist may be considered ( 327 ). Although each of these treatments can be effective in individual circumstances, vasopressin receptor antagonist is the only therapy currently FDA-approved for treatment of hyponatremia. Several randomized controlled clinical trials have been published on the efficacy and safety of vasopressin antagonist treatment for hyponatremia ( 328 , 329 ); however these agents have not been utilized much in older individuals even though many older individuals
