Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


efficacy and safety of vasopressin antagonist treatment for hyponatremia ( 328 , 329 ); however these agents have not been utilized much in older individuals even though many older individuals were enrolled in the clinical trials, presumably due to cost reasons and the need for these agents to be only initiated as an in-patient. More recently, the therapeutic effect of empagliflozin, a sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, in treating SIAD-induced hyponatremia was studied given that empagliflozin promotes osmotic diuresis via urinary glucose excretion, thereby causes increased electrolyte free water clearance ( 330 , 331 ). Refardt et al. ( 332 ) demonstrated the efficacy of 4 days empagliflozin treatment in correcting hyponatremia in hospitalized patients with SIAD with a mean age 74 years. These investigators subsequently performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study investigating 4 weeks of empagliflozin treatment and found a relevant increase in serum [Na+] levels compared with placebo in older outpatients with chronic SIAD who had a median age of 71.5 years and improvement in neurocognitive function ( 333 ). Overall, empagliflozin treatment was safe and well tolerated in both studies ( 332 ). However, larger studies in in- and out-patient settings are still needed to confirm these treatment effects in elderly patients before SGLT2 inhibitors can be recommended routinely to treat SIAD-induced hyponatremia in the elderly. CONCLUSIONS Aging is associated with complex physiological changes of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, which occur independently of age-related diseases. Decreased levels of estrogen and testosterone occur universally in the elderly, accompanied by increased LH, FSH, and SHBG levels, and decreased GH, IGF-I, and DHEAS levels. By contrast, endocrine functions critical for survival, such as thyroid and adrenal function, show relatively minimal changes in basal hormone levels with aging, while intricate regulatory alterations still occur within the HPT and HPA axes. The clinical implications of these hormonal changes vary and remain an active area of investigation. In women, menopause leads to significant physiological changes, including disruptions in lipid metabolism, bone loss, vasomotor symptoms, cognitive changes, and elevated cardiovascular risk. In men, age-related decline in gonadal function has been linked to increased fat mass, reduced muscle and bone mass, fatigue, depression, anemia, sexual dysfunction, insulin resistance, and elevated cardiovascular risk. Similarly, the age-related decline in the GH–IGF-I axis contributes to reduced protein synthesis, loss of lean body and bone mass, and impaired immune function. When assessing elderly patients with AGHD and acromegaly, IGF-I
