Physiology and Diseases of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary Axis in the Elderly
KEYWORDS: pubmed, patients, elderly, levels, endocrinol, free, older, testosterone, hormone, pituitary, age, aging, clin, men, article


decline in the GH–IGF-I axis contributes to reduced protein synthesis, loss of lean body and bone mass, and impaired immune function. When assessing elderly patients with AGHD and acromegaly, IGF-I levels may not be a reliable biomarker and should be carefully interpreted within a broader clinical context to define diagnosis and treatment efficacy. In comparison, changes in adrenal hormone production tend to have less clearly defined clinical consequences. Differentiating whether these changes are related to the aging process or whether they are due to other processes, such as intercurrent chronic diseases, inflammation, nutritional status, or a combination of these, is challenging. Over the past few years, numerous studies have explored hormone replacement strategies to restore hormone levels in the elderly to “youthful” ranges, aiming to counteract these age-related changes. However, despite these efforts, it remains unclear whether such interventions yield meaningful long-term health benefits, and may, in fact, increase potential risks and adverse side-effects. To date, no hormonal therapeutic interventions have been proven to be a definitive solution for reversing the aging process. On the other hand, management of conditions such as Cushing disease and acromegaly are more challenging in the older versus younger individuals due to many potential pitfalls in terms of symptom recognition and reliability of hormone testing, greater burden of concurrent comorbidities, increased tendency of polypharmacy and possible drug-to-drug interactions, and lack of information about safety and efficacy of treatment options. More studies are needed to establish effective approaches aimed at shortening the exposure time to excessive cortisol and GH and optimizing the diagnostic and therapeutic strategies specifically addressed at elderly patients with the primary goal of normalizing survival, managing comorbidities and promoting satisfactory, age-adjusted improvements in quality of life. REFERENCES 1. Pataky MW, Young WF, Nair KS. Hormonal and Metabolic Changes of Aging and the Influence of Lifestyle Modifications. Mayo Clin Proc. 2021;96:788-814. [ PMC free article : PMC8020896 ] [ PubMed : 33673927 ] 2. Veldhuis JD. Changes in pituitary function with ageing and implications for patient care. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2013;9:205-215. [ PMC free article : PMC3920108 ] [ PubMed : 23438832 ] 3. Chahal HS, Drake WM. The endocrine system and ageing. J Pathol. 2007;211:173-180. [ PubMed : 17200939 ] 4. Caputo M, Mele C, Ferrero A, et al. Dynamic Tests in Pituitary Endocrinology: Pitfalls in Interpretation during Aging. Neuroendocrinology. 2022;112:1-14. [ PubMed : 33454712 ] 5. Cappola AR, Auchus RJ, El-Hajj Fuleihan
