2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


example, folate, vitamin B , and vitamin B are important for lympho- 6 12 cyte maturation and proliferation, T-cell cytotoxicity, and protection against oxidative stress (Dhur et al., 1991; Gay and Meydani, 2001). In observational studies among patients with megaloblastic anemia, intramuscular vitamin B injections restored CD8 T-cell counts, total leukocyte counts, and natural killer cell activity (Tamura et al., 1999; Erkurt et al., 2008), and folic acid supplementation improved cell-mediated immunity . Another study found that increased dietary intake of vitamin B was associated with elevated lymphocyte proliferation . During elevated interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) activity, riboflavin and vitamin B may be depleted, given the role of these nutrients as cofactors for tryptophan catabolism, a metabolic process that is increased during IFN-γ-mediated immune activity (Christensen et al., 2012; Theofylaktopoulou et al., 2014). Few studies have been conducted to investigate the associations of other B-vitamins and immune function. b-vitaminS and Hiv/aidS: EvidEncE from obSErvationaL StudiES B-vitamin deficiencies are common in HIV-infected individuals and have been associated with increased risk of HIV disease progression and adverse health outcomes in observational studies. HIV disease may itself contribute to the etiology of certain B-vitamin deficiencies through a num- ber of potential mechanisms, such as gut epithelial damage (Brenchley and Douek, 2007), infection of marrow stromal cells , impaired hematopoietic progenitor cell growth (Moses et al., 1996), and bone marrow pathologies, autoimmune hemolysis, and intestinal blood loss (Coyle, 1997; Kreuzer and Rockstroh, 1997; Sullivan et al., 1998). For example, riboflavin, folate, and vita- min B are absorbed across the villi of enterocytes through carrier-mediated transport (Sundaram, 2000; Milman, 2012; Finkelstein et al., 2015); damage to the intestinal lining and changes in lumen pH caused by the acute phase of HIV infection and chronic inflammation reduce the efficacy of gut absorption, which may result in these deficiencies. Conversely, B-vitamins, such as vitamin B , folate, and vitamin B , could influence HIV disease 6 12 progression via restoration of lymphocyte counts and promotion of lymphocyte maturation. Vitamin B , folate, and vitamin B are critical methyl donors or coenzymes in one-carbon metabolism, a 6 12 process necessary for DNA de novo synthesis (McCormick and Chen, 1999; Powers, 2003; Stover, 2009; Finkelstein et al., 2015); inadequate concentrations of these nutrients could hamper proper DNA synthesis for CD4+ lymphocytes, a primary host target of HIV. HIV promotes apoptosis of B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS 29 host cells through over-activation of the
