2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


growth (i.e., weight, length, head circumference, and mid-upper arm circumference), including weight for age (WAZ), weight for length (WLZ), and length for age (LAZ) WHO z-scores (underweight, WAZ < –2; wasting, WLZ < –2; stunting, LAZ < –2); cognitive and psychomotor development; and anemia and B-vitamin status. 32 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health Available abstracts of all studies were searched, full-text articles were extracted and reviewed, and the following inclusion criteria were applied: (1) human studies; (2) HIV-infected individuals; and (3) availability of data on B-vitamin status, intake, or supplementation, on HIV/AIDS, and on the association between B-vitamins and HIV/AIDS. All randomized trials and interventions and quasi-randomized and uncontrolled trials meeting participant and methodological criteria were included. Sources were retrieved, collected, indexed, and assessed for B-vitamin supplementation and HIV-related data. Bibliographies of published studies and manual searches of related articles in references were used to identify additional sources. An additional search was conducted to identify review articles, which were examined to cross-reference other relevant studies. A standardized table was used to extract and organize key information from experimental studies that met the above- mentioned criteria. Extracted data included publication date, authors, study design, setting, target population, micronutrient supplement type and composition, definition of outcomes, main findings, and limitations. LITERATURE REVIEW SEarcH StratEgy rESuLtS The structured literature search resulted in 1567 articles. After 1337 articles were excluded (n = 161 missing abstracts, n = 201 reviews or meta-analyses, n = 79 case-reports, n = 565 laboratory studies, n = 67 non-human studies, n = 223 missing data on B-vitamins, n = 8 missing data on HIV, n = 14 missing data on the associations between B-vitamins and HIV, and n = 19 editorials or com- mentaries), 230 full-text articles were extracted for further review. After excluding 109 articles that did not meet inclusion criteria (n = 2 review, n = 1 laboratory study, n = 22 studies missing data on B-vitamins, n = 8 missing data on HIV, n = 74 missing data on the associations between B-vitamins and HIV, n = 2 editorial or commentary, and n = 5 full-text not available) and an additional 85 observational studies (n = 30 cross-sectional, n = 34 case-control, and n = 21 cohort studies), a total of 36 randomized trials or other types of intervention studies were included in this review. An additional 11 research articles were identified from
