2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


n = 21 cohort studies), a total of 36 randomized trials or other types of intervention studies were included in this review. An additional 11 research articles were identified from references of included studies, for a total of 47 articles. The structured literature search was summarized in Figure 2.1, and micronutrient supple- mentation trial study design (Table 2.1) and findings are summarized in detail in Tables 2.2 and 2.3. randomizEd triaLS of muLtipLE micronutriEnt SuppLEmEntation A total of 38 articles reported the effects of multiple-micronutrient supplementation (including B-vitamins) on health outcomes in HIV-infected individuals. Twenty of these articles came from the same study, the Trial of Vitamins (TOV) (Principal Investigator: Fawzi). The micronutrient inter- ventions evaluated in these randomized trials were daily oral supplements containing B-vitamins (i.e., thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B , folic acid, and vitamin B ) in combination with other 6 12 vitamins and minerals. The dose of specific micronutrients varied by trial. HIV-related outcomes included mortality, HIV disease progression, anemia and B-vitamin status, and co-morbidities; pregnancy outcomes; and pediatric micronutrient status, morbidity, growth, and development. Findings from these micronutrient supplementation trials are summarized in detail in Table 2.2. Hiv-rELatEd outcomES Micronutrient supplementation with B-vitamins in combination with other vitamins and minerals has been associated with improved HIV-related outcomes in several randomized trials. B-vitamin supplementation decreased the risks of HIV disease progression and AIDS-related death (Jiamton et al., 2003; Fawzi et al., 2004b) and increased CD4 T-cell counts (Fawzi et al., 1998; Baum et al., B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS 33 2013) in randomized trials in both pregnant and non-pregnant HIV-infected women. Daily supple- mentation with B-vitamins also reduced the risk of HIV-related opportunistic infections, weight loss, and anemia in trials in HIV-infected pregnant women (Villamor et al., 2005b; Fawzi et al., 2007; Villamor et al., 2008; Olofin et al., 2014). HIV Disease Progression and AIDS-Related Mortality Several randomized trials have been conducted to examine the effects of micronutrient supplemen- tation on HIV disease progression using the WHO HIV disease stage classifications (1 to 4) and AIDS-related mortality. The Trial of Vitamins (TOV), a randomized trial among HIV-infected, ART-naïve pregnant women (12 to 27 weeks gestation) in Tanzania, was conducted to determine the effects of maternal multivitamin supplementation on HIV disease progression, mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV, and adverse pregnancy outcomes among HIV-infected pregnant women and their children. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 1078 HIV- infected pregnant women
