2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


. There were no significant effects of maternal multivitamin supplementation on the risks of child wasting, stunt- ing, or underweight from birth to 24 months of age . In the randomized trial of multivitamin supplementation among HIV-exposed children in Tanzania, children born to HIV-infected women were randomized to receive a daily multivitamin supplement (0.5 mg thiamine, 0.6 mg riboflavin, 4 mg niacin, 0.6 mg vitamin B , 130 µg folic acid, and 1 mg vitamin B , with dose doubled at 6 months of age) or a placebo from 6 weeks to 24 months of age . Child multivitamin supplementation had no significant effects on LAZ, WLZ, or WAZ or on the incidence of stunting (LAZ < –2), wasting (WLZ < –2), or underweight (WAZ < –2) at 104 weeks of follow-up compared to a placebo . In a trial from Uganda, HIV-infected children were randomized to receive either a multivitamin supplement that included B-complex vitamins at two times the RDA level or a multivitamin supplement at the single RDA level (Principal Investigator: Ndeezi) . The higher dose multivitamin had no significant effects on child WAZ or height for age (HAZ) at 12 months follow-up compared to the single RDA level . 78 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health Cognitive and Psychomotor Development Two randomized trials to date have been conducted to evaluate the effects of multivitamin supplemen- tation administered to HIV-infected mothers or HIV-exposed infants on cognition and psychomotor development in children, as assessed using the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development (BSID, versions II and III). In the TOV study, the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development were administered to a subgroup of children to examine the effects of maternal multivitamin supple- mentation on cognitive and psychomotor development in offspring . Children born to women who received multivitamin supplementation had significantly higher psychomotor development indices at 6 months of age (95.9 vs. 92.8; p = 0.03) and higher psychomotor indices (+2.6; 95% CI, 0.1–5.1; p = 0.04) and raw motor scores (+0.8; 95% CI, 0.002–1.6; p = 0.04) at 18 months of age compared to children born to women who did not receive multivitamins . In the aforementioned randomized trial among HIV-exposed children in Tanzania, daily multi- vitamin supplementation (0.5 mg thiamine, 0.6 mg riboflavin, 4 mg niacin, 0.6 mg vitamin B , 130 µg folic acid, and 1 mg vitamin B , with
