2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


supplementation with zidovudine significantly increased serum vitamin B , serum 12 12 folate, and erythrocyte folate concentrations at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months follow-up (p < 0.05) compared to zidovudine alone . randomizEd triaLS of SingLE micronutriEnt SuppLEmEntation The majority of randomized trials of B-vitamin supplementation in HIV-infected populations have focused on B-complex vitamins in combination with other vitamins and minerals. To date, random- ized trials of single micronutrient supplements in HIV-infected individuals have focused on folic * Folinic acid is a vitamer of folic acid typically used in cancer therapy, but functionally it acts as a vitamin. B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS 79 acid and niacin. These studies have examined the effects of folic acid or niacin on ART safety, effi- cacy, and failure; anemia and micronutrient status; and dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and adverse vascular events. Findings from these randomized trials are summarized in detail in Table 2.3. Folic Acid Supplementation Findings regarding the effects of folic acid supplementation on hemoglobin concentrations and ane- mia in HIV-infected patients are conflicting. In a trial of patients with AIDS examining toxicity of trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole (TMP–SMZ) treatment, patients were randomized to folic acid supplementation with TMP–SMZ or TMP–SMZ alone . Folinic acid supple- mentation (7.5 mg/day) with TMP–SMZ had no significant effects on the incidence of anemia (≥10% decrease in hematocrit; p = 0.40) compared to TMP–SMZ alone . However, in a study examining the potential benefit of folic acid supplementation for cytopenia in HIV-infected patients (WHO stages 2 and 3) receiving pyrimethamine, zidovudine, and pentamidine isothinonate aerosol, individuals who also received folic acid supplementation for 180 days (Group 1, 5 mg 3×/ week; Group 2, 25 mg 3×/week) had significantly higher hemoglobin concentrations at 180 days of follow-up (p < 0.05) compared to the placebo . Folic acid supplementation (400 µg daily) is part of standard prenatal care for the prevention of neural tube defects and anemia (WHO, 2012). However, there are concerns that requirements could be higher in the context of HIV, particularly with the use of anti-folate medications. In indi- viduals with HIV infection, anti-folinic drugs are often prescribed to treat bacterial and protozoan infections, and several malaria prophylactic medications are folate antagonists (e.g., sulfadox- ine–pyrimethamine with its mechanism of action—dihydrofolate reductase), which impair folate status and increase the risk of anemia. Four randomized trials have been conducted to examine the effects of folic acid supplementation on anemia and cardiovascular outcomes
