2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


reductase), which impair folate status and increase the risk of anemia. Four randomized trials have been conducted to examine the effects of folic acid supplementation on anemia and cardiovascular outcomes in HIV-infected patients. A cohort of patients with AIDS (95.7% ART-naïve) and pneumonia infection who were receiving trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole (TMP–SMZ) was randomized to receive daily folic acid supple- mentation (7.5 mg/day) or a placebo throughout the duration of TMP–SMZ treatment. Folic acid supplementation significantly increased the risk of treatment failure (p = 0.005) and death (p = 0.02) compared to the placebo . However, folic acid supplementation was not associated with risk of TMP–SMZ dose-limiting toxicity (p = 0.40), time of discontinuation of To date, one randomized trial has been conducted to examine the effects of folic acid supple- mentation on cardiovascular outcomes in HIV-infected individuals . In a four-week randomized trial of folic acid (5 mg) supplementation or placebo among HIV-infected adults on HAART, folic acid had no effect on endothelium-independent vasodilation (p = 0.834) but significantly improved forearm reactive hyperemia (p < 0.001), an indicator of vascular reactivity . Additional trials on folic acid supplementation are needed to determine the potential benefits on cardiovascular and cardiometabolic outcomes to expand upon these prelimi- nary findings. Niacin Supplementation Niacin is commonly used to treat dyslipidemia and improve lipid profiles when supplemented in high doses. Extended-release (ER) niacin interventions have been examined for their potential benefits on cardiovascular outcomes in HIV-infected individuals, including dyslipidemia, insu- lin resistance, vasodilation changes, and safety of ER-niacin therapy. ER-niacin supplementation improved dyslipidemia and related outcomes in HIV-infected individuals in all randomized trials to date. In a study among 14 HIV-infected adults who were stable on HAART, treatment with ER-niacin (maximum 2000 mg/day for 14 weeks) significantly decreased total cholesterol (–14; 95% CI, –9 to –25 mg/dL; p = 0.005), triglycerides (–34; 95% CI, –17 to –42 mg/dL; p = 0.019), and non-HDL cholesterol (–19; 95% CI, –10 to –31 mg/dL; p = 0.004) from pretreatment to 14 80 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health weeks follow-up . Similarly, in HIV-infected ART-stable adults with dyslip- idemia (HDL-C ≥ 4.66 nmol/L and triglycerides ≥ 2.26 mmol/L), 22% of participants reached their composite lipid goal, and 84% had lower triglycerides (<5.65 mmol/L) after 44 weeks of ER-niacin supplementation (maximum 2000 mg/day) . In a third intervention study examining ER-niacin tolerability in HIV-infected individuals, ER-niacin supplementation significantly decreased
