2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


viral load, and improve CD4 T-cell counts, in addition to decreasing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes, including low birthweight, preterm birth, and fetal loss. Among HIV-exposed infants, B-vitamin supplementation in complex with other micronutrients has not been associated with mother-to-child transmission of HIV or weight gain, but improved psychomotor development. Randomized trials of multivitamins containing a B-vitamin complex at multiple RDA levels have not demonstrated a consistent addi- tional benefit on HIV disease progression, immune function, or AIDS-related mortality compared to the single RDA level. In randomized trials of individual micronutrients in HIV-infected popula- tions, extended-release niacin improved dyslipidemia, but the evidence of the effects of folic acid on hematological outcomes is conflicting. The safety and efficacy of B-vitamin supplementation for HIV-infected individuals have not been studied extensively in the context of antiretroviral therapy. Randomized trials with B-vitamins in combination with other micronutrients have been reported to slow the progression of HIV and decrease the risk of mortality and AIDS-related mortality (Jiamton et al., 2003; Fawzi et al., 2004b), decrease HIV-1 RNA viral load , lower the risk of tuberculosis recurrence , and improve markers of immune status (Fawzi et al., 1998; Baum et al., 2013). B-vitamin supplementation in HIV-infected, ART- naïve pregnant women decreased the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes, including low birth- weight, small-for-gestational age, severe preterm birth, and fetal loss (Fawzi et al., 1998, 2000), and reduced the risk of MTCT of HIV among women who were nutritionally or immunologically compromised at baseline . Maternal prenatal B-vitamin supplementation also conferred benefit to pediatric outcomes in offspring, including reduced risk of AIDS-associated conditions and opportunistic infections (Fawzi et al., 2003; Villamor et al., 2007) and decreased risk of microcytosis . Among HIV-exposed infants, B-vitamin supplementation in complex with other micronutrients did not reduce the risk of AIDS-associated mortality (Ndeezi et al., 2010; Duggan et al., 2012) or childhood weight gain (Ndeezi et al., 2010; Kupka et al., 2013) but did improve psychomotor development . The evidence to date on the safety and efficacy of micronutrient supplementation (including B-vitamins) in HIV-infected pregnant women (see Chapter 6 of this volume) and HIV-infected and HIV-exposed children (see Chapter 8 of this volume) are discussed in further detail in other chapters in this volume. Randomized tri- als comparing different doses of B-complex regimens (i.e., multiple vs. single RDA level) have not consistently demonstrated a benefit on HIV-related outcomes among ART-naïve pregnant
