2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


in this volume. Randomized tri- als comparing different doses of B-complex regimens (i.e., multiple vs. single RDA level) have not consistently demonstrated a benefit on HIV-related outcomes among ART-naïve pregnant women (Kawai et al., 2010a; Isanaka et al., 2012), adult men and women initiating HAART (Isanaka et al., 2012), or infants . Few randomized trials have been conducted to examine the effects of individual micronutri- acid and ER-niacin. Findings regarding the effects of folic acid supplementation on hemoglobin and anemia were conflicting (Brossard et al., 1994; Safrin et al., 1994). Extended-release niacin consistently improved lipid profile and reversed indicators of dyslipidemia among HIV-infected ART-stable individuals (Gerber et al., 2004; Dube et al., 2006; Chow et al., 2010; Souza et al., 2010; Balasubramanyam et al., 2011; Lin et al., 2013). However, interventions with ER-niacin also increased the risk of insulin resistance and elevated blood glucose concentrations (Gerber et al., 2004; Balasubramanyam et al., 2011). 82 Nutrition and HIV: Epidemiological Evidence to Public Health rESEarcH gapS Study Design—B-Vitamin Supplementation Despite findings from randomized trials to date, the role of specific B-vitamins (or potential mecha- nisms involved) in the etiology of HIV-related outcomes is unclear. Few trials to date have focused specifically on B-vitamins, such as B-complex vitamins alone or individual B-vitamins as com- pared to a placebo (or no B-vitamin supplementation). B-vitamin interventions have also been administered in combination with other micronutrients (e.g., B-complex, C, and E vitamins together with vitamin A or selenium). Supplementation with multiple micronutrients constrains causal infer- ence regarding the specific effects of B-vitamins on HIV-related outcomes. Also, the variation in B-vitamin composition, dose, and administration and the co-administration with other micronu- trients in these trials limit the ability to compare findings across studies. The potential effects of micronutrient supplementation of other B-vitamins on immune function, such as thiamin, ribofla- vin, vitamin B ,folate, or vitamin B , warrant further investigation in single-supplementation trials. 6 12 B-Vitamin Biomarkers Few studies in this review assessed biomarkers of B-vitamin status in study participants. The inclu- sion of multiple micronutrients in intervention regimes and lack of assessment of specific biomark- ers constrain interpretation of findings of specific effects of B-vitamins on health outcomes. For example, studies measuring the role of B-vitamins either in complex with other micronutrients or as a single micronutrient (e.g., folic acid) on outcomes such as hemoglobin or anemia did not measure vitamin B and folate, deficiencies of
