2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


either in complex with other micronutrients or as a single micronutrient (e.g., folic acid) on outcomes such as hemoglobin or anemia did not measure vitamin B and folate, deficiencies of which are known causes of anemia. Two studies that did mea- sure vitamin B and folate status in participants assessed total vitamin B and serum/plasma folate 12 12 as the only biomarkers of B-vitamin status (Baylin et al., 2005; Ndeezi et al., 2011). Total vitamin B is a circulating biomarker of vitamin B status that does not reflect the metabolic uptake of vita- 12 12 min B . Inclusion of functional vitamin B biomarkers, such as MMA and erythrocyte folate con- 12 12 centrations, would improve the assessment of B-vitamin status (Yetley and Johnson, 2011; Yetley et al., 2011a,b,c). In addition to the limited assessment of B-vitamin biomarkers, these indicators were often assessed at a single time point, and few studies in this review used standardized cutoffs for deficiency or insufficiency of B-vitamins. Measurement of B-vitamin supplementation, adherence, and biomarkers of B-vitamin status are critical to elucidating mechanisms between B-vitamins and HIV-related outcomes. Generalizability Randomized trials from Tanzania (Principal Investigator: Fawzi) have reported that multivita- min supplementation with B-complex, C, and E vitamins significantly reduces the risk of various adverse HIV-related and perinatal outcomes among ART-naïve, HIV-infected pregnant women. However, few multivitamin trials have been conducted in other regions of the world. Also, some trials included individuals who were co-infected with tuberculosis or children who were both HIV- infected and HIV-exposed, which limits comparison with other studies. The limited evidence regarding the effects of B-vitamins in other settings constrains generalizability and interpretation of findings, particularly in the ART era. micronutriEnt SuppLEmEntation in tHE contExt of antirEtroviraL tHErapy Randomized trials of B-vitamin supplementation and HIV-related outcomes to date have primar- ily been conducted in ART-naïve populations. Among trials in which HIV-infected individuals received B-vitamins in complex with other micronutrients, only one trial recruited participants initiating HAART (TOV3) ; other trials of B-vitamins stratified participants by ART status or enrolled mothers and infants as ART became available during the course of the trial B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS 83 (Luabeya et al., 2007; Ndeezi et al., 2010; Duggan et al., 2012). The variability in ART exposure and the ancillary focus on ART for these trials constrains causal inference of the effects of B-vitamins in the context of antiretroviral therapy. Further research is urgently needed
