2 B-Vitamins and HIV/AIDS
KEYWORDS: dna, nimativ, vitamin, eht, hiv, supplementation, erew, rof, nimativitlum, vih, skeew, shtnom, hiv-infected, ksir, b-vitamins


ART exposure and the ancillary focus on ART for these trials constrains causal inference of the effects of B-vitamins in the context of antiretroviral therapy. Further research is urgently needed to determine the efficacy and safety of B-vitamin supplementation as an adjunct to essential antiretroviral therapy. Research to date on the effects of single B-vitamin nutrient supplements in ART-stable popula- tions has focused on folic acid and extended-release niacin. Two trials of folic acid supplementa- tion in ART-stable, HIV-infected individuals did not demonstrate significant effects on anemia or cardiovascular blood flow (Brossard et al., 1994; Grigoletti et al., 2013). In contrast, randomized trials of ER-niacin therapy among ART-stable, HIV-infected adults have demonstrated a consistent benefit of ER-niacin therapy for dyslipidemia (Gerber et al., 2004; Dube et al., 2006; Chow et al., 2010; Souza et al., 2010; Balasubramanyam et al., 2011). IMPLICATIONS FOR CLINICAL CARE AND PUBLIC HEALTH PRACTICE B-vitamin deficiencies are prevalent in HIV-infected individuals and have been associated with increased risk of adverse health outcomes. Randomized trials to date have demonstrated a consis- tent benefit of B-vitamin supplementation on HIV disease progression and HIV-related health out- comes in ART-naïve populations. Current evidence supports the use of B-vitamin supplementation at the single RDA level for HIV-infected individuals. There is, however, more limited evidence of the additional benefit of higher dose B-vitamin supplementation compared to the single RDA level. Improved dietary intake of B-vitamins using food fortification and dietary diversification approaches is needed, particularly in resource-limited settings where the burden of B-vitamin deficiencies is high. Extended-release niacin has demonstrated consistent benefits for lipid profiles and dyslipidemia in HIV-infected adults who are stable on ART. ER-niacin therapy is a feasible method to maintain a normal lipid profile for HIV-infected individuals on ART. However, findings regarding the potential effects on insulin resistance and elevated blood glucose concentrations warrant caution, and indi- viduals must be carefully monitored for insulin resistance and diabetes. To date, there is limited evidence on the effects of B-vitamin supplementation among HIV- infected individuals on antiretroviral therapy. The importance of ensuring universal access to ART cannot be overemphasized. Further research is needed to examine the role of B-vitamin supplemen- tation as an adjunct to essential ART and to elucidate potential micronutrient–ART interactions and their implications for health outcomes. The safety and efficacy of B-vitamin supplementation in HIV/AIDS urgently need to be examined as an adjunct to essential antiretroviral therapy.
