Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


ventricular tachycardia. 3 Chapter 1 The adult basic life-support algorithm (UK version) is reprinted with permission from the Resuscitation Council (UK) website and is available at: www.resus.org.uk The advanced life-support algorithm for the management of cardiac arrest in adults (US version) is reprinted with permission from the American Heart Association (Circulation2000;102:I-143). The advanced life-support algorithm for the management of cardiac arrest in adults (UK version) is reprinted with permission from the Resuscitation Council (UK) website and is available at: www.resus.org.uk 4 Chapter 2 Cardiovascular examination Although technology has a high profile in cardiology, clinical examination remains a central tool, especially for the generalist. General inspection Many clues to the cardiac condition can be detected with a simple visual inspection. In the acutely unwell patient, cyanosis, pallor, and sweatiness can all be signs of impending danger – does the patient “look” ill? In nonacute patients, cachexia is perhaps the most important feature to note on general inspection since it is an important prognostic sign in heart failure. Palpation is essential to confirm that girth is excess fluid (pitting edema). Certain physical appearances should always prompt an awareness of cardiac abnormalities (see Table 1). Facial signs for which there is evidence of an association with cardiac conditions are shown in Table 2. Finally, it is important to document the condition of a potential cardiac patient’s teeth. Genetic disorder Associated cardiac manifestation Marfan’s syndrome Aortic regurgitation (aortic dissection) Down’s syndrome ASD, VSD Turner’s syndrome Coarctation of the aorta Spondyloarthritides, Aortic regurgitation eg, ankylosing spondylitis Table 1.Cardiac manifestations of genetic disorders. ASD: atrial septal defect; VSD: ventricular septal defect. Taking the pulse Taking the pulse is one of the simplest, oldest, and yet most informative of all clinical tests. As you pick up the patient’s hand, you should check for clubbing and any peripheral signs of endocarditis (see Table 3). Note the rate and document the rhythm of the pulse. The character and volume of the pulse can also be useful signs and traditionally it is believed that these are easier to detect in larger arteries such as the brachial and the carotid (see Table 4). 5 Chapter 2 Facial sign Description Possible cardiac association Malar flush Redness around the cheeks Mitral stenosis Xanthomata Yellowish deposits of lipid around the Hyperlipidemia eyes, palms, or tendons Corneal arcus A ring around the cornea Age, hyperlipidemia Proptosis Forward projection or displacement of Atrial fibrillation the eyeball;
