Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


pulses Table 4.Abnormal pulses. Blood pressure This is described in Chapter 6, Hypertension. Jugular venous pressure Of all the elements of clinical examination, the jugular venous pressure (JVP) is the most mysterious. It is highly esoteric, and whilst some people wax lyrical about the steepness of the “y” descent, others will feel grateful to be convinced they see it at all. Two things are very clear: (1) the JVP is a very useful clinical marker in many situations, and (2) the exact height of the JVP is a poor guide to central venous pressure. Taken together, this suggests that noting whether the JVP is “up” or “down” is good practice in every cardiac patient. In particular, it can be very useful in diagnosing right-sided heart failure and in differentiating a cardiovascular cause of acute shortness of breath (right ventricular failure, pulmonary embolism) from an intrinsic pulmonary cause (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). For the general physician, the waveform of the JVP (see Figure 1) is, for most purposes, only of academic significance. 7 Chapter 2 a a v c y x Diastole Ventricular Diastole systole a wave x descent v wave y descent Atrium contracting Atrium relaxing then Atrium tense, full; Atrium emptying, tricuspid valve open filling, tricuspid tricuspid closed tricuspid open closed Figure 1.Waveforms of the jugular venous pressure (including a brief explanation for each wave). The “c” wave represents right ventricular contraction “pushing” the tricuspid valve back into the right atrium. Reproduced with permission from Oxford University Press (Longmore JM et al. The Oxford Handbook of Clinical Medicine, 5th Edn, p. 79). The JVP should be assessed with the patient reclined at a 45º angle (see Figure 2). Accepted practice is that only the internal jugular vein should be used, as only this vessel joins the superior vena cava at a 180º angle. The JVP is defined as the height of the waveform in centimeters above the sternal angle (<4 cm is normal). Abnormalities of the JVP are described in Table 5. 8 Cardiovascular examination Internal External jugular jugular vein vein Sternocleidomastoid muscle Figure 2.The jugular veins. The patient is lying at a 45°angle, thus revealing the surface markings of the neck. JVP abnormalities Probable cause Large “a” wave Tricuspid stenosis, pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary stenosis Cannon wave Atrial fibrillation, complete heart block, VVI pacing, ventricular tachycardia (a cannon wave occurs when the right atrium contracts against a closed
