Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


wave Tricuspid stenosis, pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary stenosis Cannon wave Atrial fibrillation, complete heart block, VVI pacing, ventricular tachycardia (a cannon wave occurs when the right atrium contracts against a closed tricuspid valve) Steep “x”, “y” descent Constrictive pericarditis, cardiac tamponade Large “v” wave, “cv” wave Tricuspid regurgitation Kussmaul’s sign Rise of JVP on inspiration, constrictive pericarditis, cardiac tamponade Table 5.Abnormalities of the jugular venous pressure (JVP). Palpation Before auscultation, inspection of the precordium can be a useful indicator of previous surgery – eg, midline sternotomy suggests previous bypass, lateral thoracotomy suggests previous mitral valve or minimally invasive bypass surgery (left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending coronary artery). Locate the apex beat – the furthest point laterally and inferioraly where you can clearly feel the apex (usually the fifth intercostal space in the midclavicular line). There are many different descriptions for abnormal apex beats. One scheme distinguishes heaving (high afterload, eg, aortic stenosis) from thrusting (high preload, 9 Chapter 2 eg, aortic regurgitation). The apex may also be “tapping”, but this reflects a loud first heart sound. In addition, you should place your left hand over the sternum and feel for any significant ventricular heave (right ventricular hypertrophy) or thrill (tight aortic stenosis, ventricular septal defect). Auscultation Held by many as the key to physical examination, the importance of auscultation remains, but is diminished in an age of increasingly portable echocardiography. Listen over the aortic (second right intercostal space) and pulmonary (second left intercostal space) areas and at the left lower sternal edge with the diaphragm of your stethoscope (better for higher pitches), then use the bell for the apex (better for lower pitches). If in doubt, use both. Press lightly with the bell. If you hear an abnormality over the aortic or pulmonary areas, you should listen over the carotids. If you hear an abnormality at the apex, listen in the axilla. Listen systematically. Start with the heart sounds – ignore everything else. Heart sound variations When listening to heart sounds, note their volume (normal, diminished, loud) and whether physiological splitting is present (see Figure 3). Physiological splitting of the second heart sound is when the sound of aortic valve closure (A2) occurs earlier than that of pulmonary valve closure (P2). It occurs in inspiration and is more common in the young. It is caused by increased venous return and negative intrathoracic pressure. This delays right ventricular emptying
