Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


valve closure (P2). It occurs in inspiration and is more common in the young. It is caused by increased venous return and negative intrathoracic pressure. This delays right ventricular emptying and pulmonary valve closure, at the same time that pooling of blood in the pulmonary capillary bed hastens left ventricular emptying and aortic valve closure. Reverse splitting of the second heart sound can occur in conditions where aortic valve closure is delayed, such as left bundle branch block or paced right ventricle, or where pulmonary valve closure occurs early, such as in the B form of Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome. Wide fixed splitting of the second heart sound occurs in atrial septal defect. A third heart sound may be heard soon after the second heart sound. It is thought to be due to rapid, high-volume filling of the left ventricle. As such, it is found in pathological (left ventricular failure) as well as physiological (athletic heart, pregnancy) states. A fourth heart sound may be heard just before the first sound. This is caused by atrial contraction filling a stiff left ventricle, eg, hypertensive heart or diastolic heart failure. 10 Cardiovascular examination Systole S4 S1 EC MSC A2 P2 S3 OS S2 Figure 3.Relative positions of heart sounds and added sounds in auscultation. Sounds in red are high pitched. A2: aortic component of second heart sound; EC: ejection click; MSC: mid systolic click; OS: opening snap; P2: pulmonary component of second heart sound; S1–S4: heart sounds 1–4. Murmurs When you have considered these heart sound variations, move on to consider the gaps between the heart sounds. If you hear a murmur, first establish whether it occurs in systole or diastole (time against the carotid pulse if necessary). Then determine its length and, if short, its exact position (early, mid, or late; systole or diastole) (see Figure 3). Added sounds An opening snap occurring after the second heart sound represents a diseased mitral valve opening to a stenotic position. An ejection click soon after the first heart sound occurs in aortic stenosis and pulmonary stenosis. A mid systolic click is heard in mitral valve prolapse. After listening to the heart Listen to the base of the lungs for the fine inspiratory crackles of pulmonary edema. If you suspect right-sided cardiac pathology, palpate the liver, which will be enlarged, congested, and possibly pulsatile in cases of right ventricular failure or tricuspid valve disease. Also, check
