Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


Added – – – – – – sounds Murmur Rumbling Harsh Ejection Pan-systolic Continuous – mid-diastolic mid-systolic systolic (↑ ±early machinery ejection flow across diastolic murmur with pulmonary (PR) systolic valve) ± accentuation harsh, explosive, brief early diastolic (PR) and ejection click Heard LLSE Second – LLSE ± 5–7 cm above – best (louder on left ICS second left and left of inspiration) (louder on ICS 2nd left ICS inspiration) beneath clavicle Radiates – – – Apex Posteriorly – Table 6.Continued. 13 Chapter 2 Summary A careful clinical examination can reveal much about the condition of your patient’s heart. In addition, noting the findings of a full examination will greatly facilitate specialist referral. In an age of high technology, skilled clinical examination has yet to be surpassed in terms of convenience, safety, and value for money. Further reading Bickley LS, Hoekelman RA, editors. Bates’ Pocket Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking, 3rd edn. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2000. Gleadle J. History and Examination at a Glance. Blackwell Science, 2003 Perloff JK. Physical Examination of the Heart and Circulation, 3rd edn. WB Saunders, 2000. Turner RC, Blackwood RA. Lecture Notes on Clinical Skills, 3rd edn. Blackwell Science, 1997. 14 Chapter 3 Conquering the ECG Besides the stethoscope, the electrocardiogram (ECG) is the oldest and most enduring tool of the cardiologist. A basic knowledge of the ECG will enhance the understanding of cardiology (not to mention this book). Electrocardiography At every beat, the heart is depolarized to trigger its contraction. This electrical activity is transmitted throughout the body and can be picked up on the skin. This is the principle behind the ECG. An ECG machine records this activity via electrodes on the skin and displays it graphically. An ECG involves attaching 10 electrical cables to the body: one to each limb and six across the chest. ECG terminology has two meanings for the word “lead”: • the cable used to connect an electrode to the ECG recorder • the electrical view of the heart obtained from any one combination of electrodes Carrying out anECG 1) Ask the patient to undress down to the waist and lie down 2) Remove excess hair where necessary 3) Attach limb leads (anywhere on the limb) 4) Attach the chest leads (see Figure 1) as follows: • V1 and V2: either side of the sternum on the fourth rib (count down from the sternal angle,
