Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


limb) 4) Attach the chest leads (see Figure 1) as follows: • V1 and V2: either side of the sternum on the fourth rib (count down from the sternal angle, the second rib insertion) • V4: on the apex of the heart (feel for it) • V3: halfway between V2 and V4 • V5 and V6: horizontally laterally from V4 (not up towards the axilla) 5) Ask the patient to relax 6) Press record 15 Chapter 3 1 2 Angle of Louis 3 4 5 V2 6 V1 V6 V3 V5 V4 Figure 1.Standard attachment sites for chest leads. The standard ECG uses 10 cables to obtain 12 electrical views of the heart. The different views reflect the angles at which electrodes “look” at the heart and the direction of the heart’s electrical depolarization. Limb leads Three bipolar leads and three unipolar leads are obtained from three electrodes attached to the left arm, the right arm, and the left leg, respectively. (An electrode is also attached to the right leg, but this is an earth electrode.) The bipolar limb leads reflect the potential difference between two of the three limb electrodes: • lead I: right arm–left arm • lead II: right arm–left leg • lead III: left leg–left arm The unipolar leads reflect the potential difference between one of the three limb electrodes and an estimate of zero potential – derived from the remaining two limb electrodes. These leads are known as augmented leads. The augmented leads and their respective limb electrodes are: • aVR lead: right arm • aVL lead: left arm • aVF lead: left leg 16 Conquering the ECG aVR (-150˚) aVL (-30˚) I (0˚) III (+120˚) II (+60˚) aVF (+90˚) Figure 2.The limb leads looking at the heart in a vertical plane. View Lead Inferior II, III, aVF Anterior I, aVL, V1–V3 Septal V3, V4 Lateral V4–V6 Table 1.ECG leads and their respective views of the heart. Chest leads Another six electrodes, placed in standard positions on the chest wall, give rise to a further six unipolar leads – the chest leads (also known as precordial leads), V1–V6. The potential difference of a chest lead is recorded between the relevant chest electrode and an estimate of zero potential – derived from the average potential recorded from the three limb leads. Planes of view The limb leads look at the heart in a vertical plane (see Figure
