Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


zero potential – derived from the average potential recorded from the three limb leads. Planes of view The limb leads look at the heart in a vertical plane (see Figure 2), whereas the chest leads look at the heart in a horizontal plane. In this way, a three-dimensional electrical picture of the heart is built up (see Table 1). 17 Chapter 3 PERFORMING DOGS British physiologist Augustus D Waller of St Mary’s Medical School, London, published the first human electrocardiogram in the British Medical Journalin 1888. It was recorded from Thomas Goswell, a technician in the laboratory, using a capillary electrometer. After that, Waller used a more available subject for his demonstrations – his dog Jimmy, who would patiently stand with his paws in glass jars of saline. AVN Bundle of His SAN Anterior fascicle Left bundle branch Right bundle branch Internodal pathways Purkinje fibers Posterior fascicle Figure 3.The cardiac depolarization route. AVN: atrioventricular node; SAN: sinoatrial node. Reproduced with permission from WB Saunders (Guyton A, Hall J. Textbook of Medical Physiology. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1996). Depolarization of the heart The route that the depolarization wave takes across the heart is outlined in Figure 3. The sinoatrial node (SAN) is the heart’s pacemaker. From the SAN, the wave of depolarization spreads across the atria to the atrioventricular node (AVN). The impulse is delayed briefly at the AVN and atrial contraction is completed. The wave of depolarization then proceeds rapidly to the bundle of His where it splits into two pathways and travels along the right and left bundle branches. The impulse travels the length of the bundles along the interventricular septum to the base of the heart, where the bundles divide into the Purkinje system. From here, the wave of depolarization is distributed to the ventricular walls and initiates ventricular contraction. 18 Conquering the ECG R J point P T U ST segment Q PR interval S QRS interval QT interval Figure 4.The basic pattern of electrical activity across the heart. The ECG trace The ECG machine processes the signals picked up from the skin by electrodes and produces a graphic representation of the electrical activity of the patient’s heart. The basic pattern of the ECG is logical: • electrical activity towards a lead causes an upward deflection • electrical activity away from a lead causes a downward deflection • depolarization and repolarization deflectionsoccur in opposite directions The basic pattern
