Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


activity towards a lead causes an upward deflection • electrical activity away from a lead causes a downward deflection • depolarization and repolarization deflectionsoccur in opposite directions The basic pattern of this electrical activity was first discovered over a hundred years ago. It comprises three waves, which have been named P, QRS (a wave complex), and T (see Figure4). P wave The P wave is a small deflection wave that represents atrial depolarization. PR interval The PR interval is the time between the first deflection of the P wave and the first deflection of the QRS complex. 19 Chapter 3 (a) LA V6 RA LV RV V5 V1 V2 V3 V4 (b) V1 V4–V6 Figure 5. (a) A horizontal section through the chest showing the orientation of the chest leads with respect to the chambers of the heart. (b) In lead V1, depolarization of the interventricular septum occurs towards the lead, thus creating an upward deflection (Rwave) on the ECG. It is followed by depolarization of the main mass of the LV, which occurs away from the lead, thus creating a downward deflection (S wave). This pattern is reversed for lead V6, explaining the different shapes of the QRS complex. This pattern should be checked in every ECG. LA: left atrium; LV: left ventricle; RA: right atrium; RV: right ventricle. QRS wave complex The three waves of the QRS complex represent ventricular depolarization. For the inexperienced, one of the most confusing aspects of ECG reading is the labeling of these waves. The rule is: if the wave immediately after the P wave is an upward deflection, it is an R wave; if it is a downward deflection, it is a Q wave: • small Q waves correspond to depolarization of the interventricular septum. Q waves can also relate to breathing and are generally small and thin. They can also signal an old myocardial infarction (in which case they are big and wide) • the R wave reflects depolarization of the main mass of the ventricles – hence it is the largest wave • the S wave signifies the final depolarization of the ventricles, at the base of the heart 20 Conquering the ECG I aVR V1 V4 II aVL V2 V5 III aVF V3 V6 Figure 6. Example of a normal ECG. ST segment The ST segment, which is also known as the ST interval, is the time between the
