Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


waves and irregular narrow QRS complexes This is the hallmark of atrial fibrillation (see Figure 7). Sometimes the baseline appears “noisy” and sometimes it appears entirely flat. However, if there are no P waves and the QRS complexes appear at randomly irregular intervals, the diagnosis is atrial fibrillation. Sawtooth P waves A sawtooth waveform signifies atrial flutter (see Figure 8). The number of atrial contractions to one ventricular contraction should be specified. Axis The axis is the net direction of electrical activity during depolarization. It is altered by left ventricular or right ventricular hypertrophy or by bundle branch blocks. It is a very straightforward measurement that, once it has been grasped, can be calculated instantaneously: • find the QRS complex in the I and aVF leads (because these look at the heart at 0º and +90º, respectively) • determine the net positivity of the QRS wave from each of the two leads by subtracting the S wave height (the number of small squares that it crosses 22 Conquering the ECG Figure 7.ECG demonstrating atrial fibrillation. Figure 8.ECG demonstrating atrial flutter – note the characteristic sawtooth waveform. (a) (b) (c) Start1 2 3 4 5 5 positive +3 0˚ 8 positive +5 30˚ 1 2 3 2 negative 90˚ End 3 negative Figure 9.Vector diagram to determine the QRS axis. as it dips below the baseline – if it does) from the R wave height (the number of small squares that it crosses as it rises) (see Figure 9a and9b) • plot out the net sizes of these QRS waves against each other on a vector diagram (see Figure 9c). For the I lead, plot net positives to the right and net negatives to the left; for the aVF lead, plot positive downwards and negative upwards • the direction of the endpoint from the starting point represents the axis or predominant direction of electrical depolarization (determined primarily by the muscle mass of the left ventricle). It is expressed as an angle and can be estimated quite easily (normal is 0º–120º) 23 Chapter 3 HUMAN RESUSCITATION The first electrical resuscitation of a human took place (almost certainly) in 1872. The resuscitation of a drowned girl with electricity is described by Guillaume Benjamin Amand Duchenne de Boulogne, a pioneering neurophysiologist, in the third edition of his textbook on the medical uses of electricity. Although it is sometimes described as the first artificial pacing,
