Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


fact, it was Augustus Désiré Waller, a physician trained in Edinburgh, who presented – to the students of St Mary’s Hospital medical school, London, at the introductory lecture of the 1888 academic year – his “cardiograph”, the first ever ECG recording in man. It was some years later, in 1901, that Wilhelm Einthoven reported his string galvanometer – with the limb leads labeled I, II, and III and the waves labeled P, QRS, and T as we know them today. In fact, although often credited with inventing the term electrocardiogram (which is why it is sometimes spelt the Dutch way), Einthoven credits Waller with this distinction in his 1895 publication in Pflügers Archives “Über die Form des menschlichen Elektrokardiogramms”. 25 Chapter 3 aVR V1 V4 I aVL V2 V5 II aVF V3 V6 III Figure 12.ECG demonstrating left ventricular hypertrophy. Note also the T-wave inversion in leads V4–V6. This is often labeled “strain”. aVR V1 V4 I aVL V2 V5 II aVF V3 V6 III Figure 13.ECG demonstrating left bundle branch block. Q waves A normal ECG has only very small Q waves. A downward deflection immediately following a P wave that is wider than two small squares or greater in height than a third of the subsequent R wave is significant: such Q waves canrepresent previous infarction (see Figure 11, previous page). 26 Conquering the ECG Left bundle branch block Right bundle branch block V1 V6 V1 V6 Figure 14.The shapes of V1 and V6 QRS complexes in left and right bundle branch block. I aVR V1 V4 II aVL V2 V5 III aVF V3 V6 Figure 15.ECG demonstrating anteroseptal myocardial infarction. Note the ST-segment elevation. Large QRS complexes Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is one of the easiest and most useful diagnoses to make (see Figure 12). The Sokolow–Lyon index is the most commonly calculated index of estimation. Does the sum of the S wave in lead V1 (SV1) and the R wave in V6 (RV6) add up to more than 3.5 mV, ie, 35 small or seven big squares? If so, the patient has LVH by voltage criterion. Right ventricular hypertrophy is indicated by a dominant R wave in V1 (ie, R wave bigger than following S wave; Sokolow–Lyon index: R in V1 + S in V5 or V6 ≥1.05 mV) and right axis deviation. Broad QRS complexes and strange-looking ECGs A wide QRS complex despite sinus rhythm
