Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


Sokolow–Lyon index: R in V1 + S in V5 or V6 ≥1.05 mV) and right axis deviation. Broad QRS complexes and strange-looking ECGs A wide QRS complex despite sinus rhythm is the hallmark of bundle branch block. Left bundle branch block (LBBB) can cause the ECG to look extremely abnormal (see Figure 13). When faced with such an ECG – after calculating rate, rhythm, and axis – check the width of the QRS complex. If it is more than three small squares wide, it is abnormal. Bundle branch block can then be diagnosed by pattern recognition of the QRS complexes in the V1 and V6 leads (see Figure 14). New LBBB can be diagnostic of myocardial infarction (MI). 27 Chapter 3 aVR V1 V4 I aVL V2 V5 II aVF V3 V6 III V1 II Figure 16.ECG demonstrating ST-segment depression (I, V3–V6). aVR V1 V4 I aVL V2 V5 II aVF V3 V6 III V1 II Figure 17.ECG demonstrating T-wave inversion. ST segment changes The ST segment extends from the end of the S wave to the start of the T wave. It should be flat or slightly upsloping and level with the baseline. Elevation of more than two small squares in the chest leads or one small square in the limb leads, combined with a characteristic history, indicates the possibility of MI (see Figure15, previous page). ST depression is diagnostic of ischemia (see Figure16). It is worth noting that although ST elevation can localize the lesion (eg, anterior MI, 28 Conquering the ECG aVR V1 V4 I aVL V2 V5 II aVF V3 V6 III V1 II V5 Figure 18.ECG demonstrating a long QT interval. inferior MI), ST depression cannot. Concave upwards ST elevation in all 12 leads is diagnostic of pericarditis. T waves In a normal ECG, T waves are upright in every lead except aVR. T-wave inversion can represent current ischemia or previous infarction (see Figure 17). In combination with LVH and ST depression, it can represent “strain”. This form of LVH carries a poor prognosis. Long QT interval The QT interval should be less than half of the R–R interval. Calculation of the corrected QT (QTc) is generally not necessary andusually will have been done by the ECG machine (but beware of blindly believing any automated diagnostic system). Conditions associated with a long QT interval are outlined in Table 3 (seeFigure 18). Long QT syndrome may
