Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


as a true representation of the underlying form, it would have been logical to continue the same naming convention when the more advanced string galvanometer started creating ECGs a few years later. Further reading Ashley EA, Raxwal VK, Froelicher VF. The prevalence and prognostic significance of electrocardiographic abnormalities. Curr Probl Cardiol 2000;25:1–72. Hampton JR. ECG Made Easy.London: Churchill Livingstone, 1997. Rautaharju PM. A hundred years of progress in electrocardiography. 1: Early contributions from Waller to Wilson. Can J Cardiol1987;3:362–74. 33 34 Chapter 4 Understanding the echocardiogram Although few generalists actually perform echocardiograms, most order or have to interpret them at some stage. Our aim then is not to explain how to carry out echocardiography, but how to realize its potential and limitations. Background “Ultra” sound has a frequency above the range audible by humans (ie, >20,000 Hz). For adult cardiac imaging, ultrasound waves in the range of 4–7MHz are used (intravascular ultrasound uses frequencies as high as 30 MHz). These are created within the ultrasound probe by striking piezo-electric crystals with an electric pulse, which stimulates the crystals to release sound waves. The central principle of ultrasound imaging is that, while most waves are absorbed by the body, those at interfaces between different tissue densities are reflected. In addition to emitting the ultrasound waves, the transducer detects the returning waves, processes the information, and displays it as characteristic images. Higher frequency ultrasound waves increase resolution, but decrease tissue penetration. Imaging modes There are three basic “modes” used to image the heart: • two-dimensional (2D) imaging • M-mode imaging • Doppler imaging Two-dimensional imaging 2D imaging is the mainstay of echo imaging and allows structures to be viewed moving in real time in a cross-section of the heart (two dimensions). It is used for detecting abnormal anatomy or abnormal movement of structures. The most common cross-sectional views are the parasternal long axis, the parasternal short axis, and the apical view (see Figure 1). The gastric or subcostal and suprasternal views are also commonly used. 35 Chapter 4 (a) (b) (c) RV RV LV LV AV LV RV LA RA LA Figure 1. The most common two-dimensional imaging echo views. The first line illustrates the three planes (think of them as three plates of glass intersecting at 90°), the second line shows these three planes separated, and the third line shows the accompanying echo views. (a) Parasternal long axis; (b) parasternal short
