Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


plates of glass intersecting at 90°), the second line shows these three planes separated, and the third line shows the accompanying echo views. (a) Parasternal long axis; (b) parasternal short axis; (c) apical 4-chamber view (note, in the UK, the 4-chamber view is shown upside down). AV: aortic valve; LA: left atrium; LV: left ventricle; RA: right atrium; RV: right ventricle. M-mode imaging The M-mode echo, which provides a 1D view, is used for fine measurements. Temporal and spatial resolutions are higher because the focus is on only one of the lines from the 2D trace (see Figure 2). Doppler imaging The concept of Doppler imaging is familiar to all those who have heard the note of a police siren change as it moves past them – as the police siren travels towards you, the frequency of the wave (pitch) appears to be higher than if it was stationary; as the siren travels away, the pitch appears to be lower. Estimates of blood-flow velocity can be made by comparing the frequency change between the transmitted and reflected sound waves. In cardiac ultrasound, Doppler is used in three ways: 36 Understanding the echocardiogram (a) (b) Figure 2.M-mode image of (a) the aorta/left atrium and (b) the mitral valve, both in a healthy heart. Figure 3.Continuous-wave Doppler signal. • continuous-wave (CW) Doppler • pulsed-wave (PW) Doppler • color-flow mapping (CFM) Continuous-wave Doppler CW Doppleris sensitive, but, because it measures velocity along the entire length of the ultrasound beam and not at a specific depth, it does not localize velocity measurements of blood flow. It is used to estimate the severity of valve stenosis or regurgitation by assessing the shape or density of the output (see Figure 3). Pulsed-wave Doppler PW Doppler was developed because of the need to make localized velocity measurements of turbulent flow (it measures the blood-flow velocity within a small area at a specified tissue depth). It is used to assess ventricular in-flow patterns, intracardiac shunts, and to make precise measurements of blood flow at valve orifices. 37 Chapter 4 Figure 4.Color-flow mapping. Color-flow mapping CFM uses measurements of the velocity and direction of blood flow to superimpose a color pattern onto a section of a 2D image (see Figure 4). Traditionally, flow towards the transducer is red, flow away from the transducer is blue, and higher velocities are shown in lighter shades. To aid observation of turbulent flow
