Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


Figure 4). Traditionally, flow towards the transducer is red, flow away from the transducer is blue, and higher velocities are shown in lighter shades. To aid observation of turbulent flow there is a threshold velocity, above which the color changes (in some systems to green). This leads to a “mosaic” pattern at the site of turbulent flow and enables sensitive screening for regurgitant flow. Transesophageal echocardiography Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) is usually carried out under mild sedation with midazolam. A thin probe is passed down the esophagus until it is level with the heart. This position provides especially clear views. It is particularly useful for imaging posterior cardiac structures. The key indications for TEE are: • infective endocarditis – if vegetations are not seen on transthoracic echo, but suspicion is high, or with prosthetic valves • to rule out an embolic source (especially in atrial fibrillation) • acute dissection • mitral valve (MV) disease preoperatively Contrast echocardiography Contrast echo can be useful for confirming a diagnosis of atrial septal defect (ASD). Agitating saline or synthetic contrast create microbubbles. These are very reflective, 38 Understanding the echocardiogram Normal ranges for measures of systolic and diastolic function Echocardiography Fractional shortening (%) 28–44 Doppler Systolic velocity integral (cm) 15–35 Mitral valve E (cm/s) 44–100 Mitral valve A (cm/s) 20–60 E:A ratio 0.7–3.1 Tricuspid valve E (cm/s) 20–50 Tricuspid valve A (cm/s) 12–36 E:A ratio 0.8–2.9 Time intervals Mitral E deceleration time (ms) 139–219 Mitral A deceleration time (ms) >70 Isovolumic relaxation time (ms) 54–98 Normal intracardiac dimensions (cm) Men Women Left atrium 3.0–4.5 2.7–4.0 LV diastolic diameter 4.3–5.9 4.0–5.2 LV systolic diameter 2.6–4.0 2.3–3.5 IV septum (diastole) 0.6–1.3 0.5–1.2 Posterior wall (diastole) 0.6–1.2 0.5–1.1 Table 1.The approximate normal values for various cardiac structures. IV: interventricular; LV: left ventricular. and when injected intravenously can be seen as opacification in the echo window. They are normally seen on the right side of the heart before being trapped and absorbed by the pulmonary capillaries, so have no route to the left side of the heart. The contrast created by the bubbles allows a left-to-right shunt to be seen as a jet “interrupting” the opacification of the right atrium. However, there is a theoretical risk of systemic air embolism with a right-to-left shunt. Applications Echo is the cheapest and least invasive method available for screening cardiac anatomy. Generalists most commonly request an echo to assess left ventricular (LV)
