Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


embolism with a right-to-left shunt. Applications Echo is the cheapest and least invasive method available for screening cardiac anatomy. Generalists most commonly request an echo to assess left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, to rule out the heart as a thromboembolic source, and to characterize murmurs. The approximate normal values for various cardiac structures are described in Table 1. 39 Chapter 4 Figures 5.E and A waves representing mitral flow in a healthy heart (E>A). Systolic dysfunction LV systolic dysfunction is assessed using the ejection fraction (the percentage of the end diastolic volume ejected during systole). In most cases, this is estimated by eye from all the available echo views. A normal ejection fraction is 50%–80%, but values as low as 5% are compatible with life (end-stage heart failure). The E/A ratio When flow across the MV is assessed with PW Doppler, two waves are characteristically seen. These represent passive filling of the ventricle (early [E] wave) and active filling with atrial systole (atrial [A] wave). Classically, the E-wave velocity is slightly greater than that of the A wave (see Figure 5). However, in conditions that limit the compliance of the LV, two abnormalities are possible: • reversal – in which the A wave is greater than the E wave. This indicates slow filling caused by older age, hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), or diastolic dysfunction • exaggeration of normal – a tall, thin E wave with a small or absent A wave. This indicates restrictive cardiomyopathy, constrictive pericarditis, or infiltrative cardiac disease (eg, amyloidosis) Diastolic dysfunction A normal LV ejection fraction in the presence of the heart failure syndrome leads to a search for diastolic dysfunction. Typical echo findings in diastolic dysfunction are normal LV cavity size, thickened ventricle, and reversed E/A ratio. Wall-motion abnormality When ischemia occurs, contractile abnormalities of segments of the myocardium can be detected by echo prior to the appearance of electrocardiogram (ECG) changes or symptoms. Therefore, echo can be a valuable tool in the diagnosis of 40 Understanding the echocardiogram Mild or no aortic stenosis Severe aortic stenosis Area of effective >1 <0.6 orifice (cm2) Velocity across <3 >4 valve (m/s) Gradient of pressure 0–60 >60 drop (mm Hg) Table 2.Echo characteristics of aortic stenosis. both stable coronary artery disease (via stress echo) and acute myocardial infarction. In the former situation, it offers localization of the ischemic region where the ECG cannot; in the latter, it
