Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


all. Paraprosthetic regurgitation Although metal valves stop ultrasound completely, echo is a useful tool for studying prosthetic valve function. The TEE approach is often used. Infective endocarditis Echo is the key investigation in infective endocarditis and, although a low threshold for TEE is warranted by its higher detection rate, transthoracic echo can demonstrate vegetations in approximately 70% of cases (see Chapter 10, Infective endocarditis). Embolic sources The primary cardiac sources for embolism are: • an akinetic ventricular segment • an LV aneurysm • the atrial appendage These are best visualized with TEE. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy Although hypertrophy is variable, echo remains the screening tool of choice in suspected cases. The classic features are asymmetrical hypertrophy of the interventricular septum and anterior movement of the MV in systole. LV function is normal, and there may be dynamic LV outflow tract obstruction. 42 Understanding the echocardiogram Further reading Chambers JB. Clinical Echocardiography. London: BMJ Books, 1995. Feigenbaum HMD. Echocardiography, 5th edn. Philadelphia: Lea & Febiger, 1994. 43 44 Chapter 5 Coronary artery disease Background Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common cause of mortality in the developed world. It results from the collision of ancient genes with modern lifestyles: a hunter–gatherer lifestyle – with high daily energy expenditure and rare kills – favors a tendency to eat large quantities of high-calorie food when it is available. Such predispositions sit uneasily in a modern world with motorized transport and fatty snacks on every corner. Despite this, so-called “hardening of the arteries” was first described only in the 1700s, and it was not until the 1900s that a good description of myocardial infarction (MI) was forthcoming. The term “coronary artery disease” encompasses a range of diseases that result from atheromatous change in coronary vessels. In the past, CAD was thought to be a simple, inexorable process of artery narrowing, eventually resulting in complete vessel blockage (and MI). However, in recent years the explanatory paradigm has changed because it was realized that a whole spectrum of coronary plaques exists – from stable (lipid-poor, thick fibrous cap) to unstable (lipid-rich, thin fibrous cap) (see Figure 1). When an unstable plaque ruptures – and the more unstable it is, the more likely it is to rupture – the subsequent release of prothrombotic and vasoconstrictive factors increases the likelihood of complete occlusion of the artery. It is the balance between the body’s prothrombotic and thrombolytic pathways at the
