Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


the subsequent release of prothrombotic and vasoconstrictive factors increases the likelihood of complete occlusion of the artery. It is the balance between the body’s prothrombotic and thrombolytic pathways at the rupture site that determines the clinical outcome. Transient occlusion leads to ischemia and pain; permanent occlusion leads to transmural MI (see Table 1). THROMBOSIS IN MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION The hypothesis that thrombosis plays a central role in myocardial infarction was first proposed by James Herrick in JAMAin 1912. This paper was the first to suggest that clots, rather than a slow accretion of plaque, are responsible for the complete occlusion that would often result in death. Importantly, he was the first to link symptoms in living patients with coronary artery disease, and to suggest that patients can survive complete blockage. These ideas were radical and new and (not surprisingly) no one believed him. 45 Chapter 5 Stable Unstable Ruptured Abundant Thick fibrous Abundant Thin fibrous smooth cap macrophages cap Fibrin muscle cells and lipid rich WBC RBC Platelet Rupture Figure 1.An atherosclerotic plaque consists of a core of dead foam cells (lipid-engorged macrophages and smooth muscle cells) covered by a fibrous cap (a region of the intimal layer that has become thickened as a result of medial smooth muscle cells depositing collagen and elastin fibers). The thickening artery wall of an atherosclerotic plaque gradually encroaches upon the luminal space and can eventually result in a restriction to blood flow. Unstable plaques, which are susceptible to rupture, are softer with a thinner fibrous cap. Plaque rupture triggers the formation of a blood clot, which can block the flow of blood through the artery. RBC: red blood cell; WBC: white blood cell. Presentation Vascular event Stable angina No plaque rupture, but symptomatic or limiting stable occlusion Acute coronary syndromes Plaque rupture with transient (unstable angina/non-Q wave MI) or incomplete occlusion MI Plaque rupture with complete occlusion and tissue necrosis Table 1.Subgroups of coronary artery disease presentations. MI: myocardial infarction. The establishment of these pathophysiological origins of CAD, together with the identification of improved clinical markers for ischemia and necrosis, has led to the proposal of a new (somewhat controversial) definition for acute MI: a rise and fall in troponin or the creatine kinase myocardial band fraction (CK-MB) (see “Markers of myocardial damage” section), plus at least one of the following: • ischemic symptoms • development of pathological Q waves on the electrocardiogram (ECG)
