Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


It may be difficult to differentiate esophageal spasm from cardiac pain as they are both improved by nitrate. Other noncardiac causes to consider are musculoskeletal, pericardial, and pleural. 47 Chapter 5 Major independent Predisposing Possible risk factors risk factors risk factors Cigarette smoking Physical inactivitya Fibrinogen Hypertension Obesitya C-reactive protein Elevated total and Family history of premature Homocysteine LDL cholesterol coronary disease Elevated Lp(a) Low HDL cholesterol Ethnicity Diabetes mellitus Psychosocial factors Older age Table 2.American Heart Association guide to risk factors for coronary artery disease. HDL: high-density lipoprotein; LDL: low-density lipoprotein; Lp(a): lipoprotein little a. aThese are classified as major by some bodies. Other forms of angina include: • variant angina (also known as Prinzmetal’s angina), which causes an unpredictable pain – typically coming on at rest – and is associated with transient ST elevation on an ECG. It is thought to be due to coronary spasm and seems to be independent of atherosclerosis • syndrome X – a condition in which the history is typical of coronary disease and there is ST depression on exercise, yet the coronary arteries are angiographically normal. It is thought to reflect small vessel disease and/or abnormal ventricular function • dyspnea– angina can present as exertional dyspnea. Pay close attention to the pattern of onset and relief • silent ischemia – diabetics, an important subgroup, can suffer from silent ischemia and even silent MI. Thus, even if there are no apparent symptoms of cardiac disease, a diabetic with an ECG abnormality should undergo stress testing and echocardiography to determine whether there is any indication for catheterization. One view is that all diabetics of greater than 5 years standing should be screened for cardiovascular disease The key message is that a patient with an atypical history should always be referred for exercise electrocardiography (see “Investigations” section). In more than 90% of cases, the existence of coronary disease can be predicted accurately from the combined results of exercise ECG and their history. Generalist management Risk factors Risk factor assessment and management are central to the care of cardiac patients. The major independent and predisposing risk factors (see Tables 2 and3) should be documented for every patient, and it is useful to include them in every referral. 48 Coronary artery disease Lifestyle Biochemical or Personal physiological characteristics characteristics (nonmodifiable) (modifiable) Diet high in Elevated blood pressure Older age saturated fat, Elevated plasma total Male gender cholesterol,
