Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


exercise. Few people realize that walking a mile and running a mile use similar amounts of energy. Thus, there is no need for patients to join a gym (with all the expense that may be incurred) when daily brisk walking is ample exercise. Keeping a diary of their physical activity may help patients to sustain adequate amounts of daily exercise. Submaximal aerobic exercise in angina Many angina patients refrain from physical activity because they believe that the resulting pain is “dangerous”. However, aside from its well-known benefits in risk reduction, exercise can be as effective as b-blockade in the management of stable angina. It has been associated with increased plaque stability and even slight plaque shrinkage. It is recommended that patients exercise for 30–45minutes per day, 4–5times a week. Estimating risk Formal risk estimation is aided by a standard set of tables that were developed using epidemiological data gathered over many years (see Figures 2 and 3). These tables are based on: • gender • age • presence of diabetes • smoking • systolic blood pressure • total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) ratio Investigations Electrocardiogram The ECG is a vital tool for assessing patients in both stable and emergency situations. Nevertheless, generalists in primary care do not always have ready access to it. Any patient presenting with clear cardiac chest pain should undergo an ECG immediately or as soon as possible (preferably even before a history is taken) to identify whether they are at high risk, ie, ST segment change or new left bundle branch block (LBBB). This facilitates prompt referral when necessary and, for thrombolysis, a door-to-needle time of less than 30 minutes. However, the ECG 53 Chapter 5 is not absolute– ST-segment elevation is present in only 50% of enzyme-confirmed MIs (see “Markers of myocardial damage” section). Chest radiograph A chest x-ray (CXR) may be used to help rule out aortic dissection in an acute presentation, although the gold standard is computed tomography (CT). Otherwise, it is rarely helpful. It should not be carried out on a routine basis. Pharmacological management of angina Stable disease is treated with aspirin and agents that offload or reduce the workload of the heart. Thus, standard medication for stable angina includes b-blockers, aspirin, and, if still symptomatic, long-acting nitrates. Aspirin The evidence for aspirin is so strong that it has to be part of the drug regimen of every patient with
