Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


b-blockers, aspirin, and, if still symptomatic, long-acting nitrates. Aspirin The evidence for aspirin is so strong that it has to be part of the drug regimen of every patient with CAD. If aspirin is not tolerated, clopidogrel may be given instead. In cases in which warfarin (Coumadin) has to be administered (eg, coronary disease and atrial fibrillation), aspirin is usually omitted, since oral anticoagulation with an international normalized ratio (INR) of 3–4 has been shown to be safe and effective. Oral long-acting nitrate Nitrates are smooth muscle relaxants with the ability to vasodilate both the arteriolar and venous circulation. This leads to reductions in both preload (venous return) and afterload (blood pressure). However, nitrate-free periods are necessary to avoid tolerance. Beta-blockers and calcium-channel blockers Beta-blockers work by reducing the heart rate (lengthening diastole increases the time for coronary perfusion) and reducing the effects of catecholamine-mediated increases in cardiac workload. Calcium-channel blockers cause coronary artery dilation and subsequently decrease cardiac workload by reducing the contractility of myocardial smooth muscle cells. Calcium-channel blockers can be divided into rate-limiting (eg, verapamil, diltiazem) and nonrate-limiting (dihydropyridines, eg, amlodipine). Dihydropyridines are generally prescribed for hypertension, whereas the others tend to be used in cases of angina because of their ability to reduce the heart rate. However, verapamil should not be used with b-blockers, which block the action of sympathetic hormones (resulting in a lower heart rate and blood pressure) (see Chapter 6, Hypertension). 54 Coronary artery disease Potassium-channel openers Potassium-channel openers, such as nicorandil, are a new class of agents for the treatment of angina. They exert both direct action on cardiac mitochondria and a nitrate-like effect. These are not yet available in the US. Lipid-lowering agents Lipids are insoluble in water. Hence, they are transported around the body as lipoproteins. Lipoproteins are made up of cholesterol, triglycerides, phospholipids, and protein. The major classes of lipoproteins (which vary in density, size, and triglyceride/cholesterol ratio) are: • chylomicrons (the largest and least dense) • very low-density lipoproteins (VLDLs) • low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) • HDLs Lipids originate from two sources: endogenous lipids, synthesized in the liver, and exogenous lipids, ingested and processed in the intestine (see Figure 4). Dietary cholesterol and triglycerides are packaged into chylomicrons in the intestine, before passing into the bloodstream via lymphatics. Chylomicrons are broken down by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) in the capillaries of muscle and adipose tissue to fatty acids, which then
