Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


the intestine, before passing into the bloodstream via lymphatics. Chylomicrons are broken down by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) in the capillaries of muscle and adipose tissue to fatty acids, which then enter the cells. The chylomicron remnants, which have lost much of their triglyceride content, are taken up by the liver for disposal. The liver synthesizes triglycerides and cholesterol, and packages them as VLDLs before releasing them into the blood. When VLDLs (which consist mainly of triglyceride) reach muscle and adipose blood vessels, their triglycerides are hydrolyzed by LPL to fatty acids. The fatty acids that are released are taken up by the surrounding muscle and adipose cells. During this process, the VLDLs become progressively more dense and turn into LDLs. While most of the resulting LDLs are taken up by the liver for disposal, some circulate and distribute cholesterol to the rest of the body tissues. HDLs, which are also secreted from the liver and intestine, have the task of preventing lipid accumulation. They remove surplus cholesterol from tissues and transfer it to LDLs that return it to the liver. To regulate cholesterol uptake, cells vary the expression of their LDL receptors. Elevated concentrations of lipid (hyperlipidemia) can lead to the development of atherosclerosis and CAD. VLDLs and LDLs are atherogenic lipoproteins, whereas HDL concentrations are inversely related to the incidence of CAD. Hence, 55 Chapter 5 Intestine Liver HMG-CoA Bile duct Cholestyramine BA Statins Hepatic portal vessels TG Chol Chol TG Fibrates VLDL Chylo LPL LPL HDL LDL Chylo rem HDL+ FA Chol Muscle and adipose tissue Blood vessel Figure 4.Lipid transport and pharmacotherapeutic agents in hyperlipidemia (see “Lipid-lowering agents” text). BA: bile acid; Chol: cholesterol; Chylo: chylomicron; Chylo rem: chylomicronremnant; FA: fatty acid; HDL: high-density lipoprotein; HMG-CoA: hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase; LDL: low-density lipoprotein; LPL: lipoprotein lipase; TG: triglyceride; VLDL: very low-density lipoprotein. treatments for hyperlipidemia aim to reduce LDL levels and raise HDL levels. Pharmacotherapeutic options in hyperlipidemia include: • statins, which inhibit hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA), the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol synthesis in the liver. A reduction in cholesterol synthesis causes the liver to increase the number of LDL receptors, reducing circulating concentrations of both cholesterol and triglyceride • cholestyramine, which is a lipid-lowering drug that acts by sequestering bile acids in the gut, thus increasing the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol • fibrates, which reduce the level of VLDL by increasing the activity
