Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


that acts by sequestering bile acids in the gut, thus increasing the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol • fibrates, which reduce the level of VLDL by increasing the activity of the VLDL-hydrolyzing enzyme LPL 56 Coronary artery disease Guidelines for the use of lipid-lowering therapy have become more aggressive over the past few years following the results of major trials showing mortality benefit for the use of statins. Most guidelines recommend statin treatment for a patient with CAD with a 10-year risk that is greater than 20% (high risk) once a trial of dietary therapy has been unsuccessful. However, treatment can be cost effective with a 10-year risk of 10%. Recent trials have identified anti-inflammatory properties of statins and benefit even in patients with normal cholesterol levels. Dosage should be adjusted according to cholesterol levels. As part of secondary prevention, the following levels should be reached: total cholesterol, <200 mg/dL (5.2 mmol/L); HDL, >40 mg/dL (1 mmol/L); LDL, <100 mg/dL (2.6 mmol/L); triglyceride, <200mg/dL (2.3 mmol/L). Refer with confidence Early management of stable coronary disease is mostly done in the community. Risk factor and stepwise pharmacological management of stable angina are appropriate. If there is any doubt about the diagnosis, a noninvasive test for coronary disease – such as an exercise ECG – should be carried out. Exercise ECG is increasingly carried out by generalists in primary care and hospitals. Pain that is resistant to medical therapy or crescendo symptoms warrants immediate presentation to an emergency room to rule out MI. The patient should then be referred to a cardiologist for further investigation, if needed. When referring patients who have had prior intervention, try to summarize the details of previous revascularization. For example: • two-vessel disease (left anterior descending [LAD], circumflex artery) • previous left internal mammary artery (LIMA) graft to LAD, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) to right coronary artery (RCA) • previous saphenous vein graft (SVG) to circumflex artery Including this type of detail will greatly increase the usefulness of a referral letter. Specialist management Stable angina: assessment Exercise electrocardiography Exercise ECG is the mainstay test for the diagnosis of CAD. It is usually carried out on a treadmill, but bicycle exercise can also be used. The patient exercises according to a set protocol from rest to maximum exertion, which should be reached in 8–12 minutes. The protocol most commonly used was originally described by Robert Bruce
