Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


15 0.95 1% 13 12 Nonlimiting 0.93 1.5% 10 9 1 mm 0.90 2% 0.85 3% 7 6 0.80 4% 0.75 5% Exercise-limiting 0.70 6% 5 3 0 0 0.55 9% 2 mm 3 mm 4 mm Figure 6.The Duke score, which is the most commonly used risk score, can be used for diagnosis as well as prognosis. To use this nomogram: determine (i) the maximum amount of downsloping or planar ST depression, and (ii) the type of angina during exercise. Connect these to give a point on the ischemia reading line. Then connect this point to the MET level (or duration of the Bruce protocol). Where this line dissects the prognosis line gives an estimate of risk. MET: metabolic unit – 1 MET equates to resting metabolic rate (typically 3.5mL/kg/min). Perfusion imaging is used to assess regional blood flow by comparing the relative distribution of isotope at rest and under conditions of stress. Stress is provided either by exercise or by pharmacological tools such as inotropes (eg, dobutamine) or vasodilators (eg, adenosine or dipyridamole). The isotope is injected at the peak of exercise and the image captured with a gamma camera. Rest images are usually achieved several hours later. The “exercise” and “rest” images are compared to identify perfusion defects that are either “fixed” (eg, the scar of an old MI) or “reversible” (ischemic disease). Thallium-201 has been the isotope of choice for many years, but more recently centers have been using Tc-99m-labeled compounds, such as sestamibi, which achieve a higher resolution from a lower dose of radiation. Single photon emission CT (SPECT) is a technique that employs a gamma camera head that rotates around the patient to provide three-dimensional images. Isotopes are also used in ventriculography. Estimates of LV function arrived at using this imaging technique are more accurate and reproducible than those resulting from echo. Consequently, ventriculography is indicated in: 60 Coronary artery disease Suspicion of coronary disease Preprobability Low Intermediate High Exercise treadmill test and diagnostic/prognostic score Stress echo Cardiac Scintigraphy catheterization MRI Figure 7.Diagnostic algorithm for coronary artery disease. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging. • cardiomyopathy assessment • pretransplant work-up • any situation where accurate risk assessment is critical Two types of protocol are used: equilibrium and first-pass. The former, which is more common, uses a sample of the patient’s blood labeled with Tc-99m. Information is gathered from each heartbeat over the time of equilibration (a
