Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


is to be operated on is stabilized locally by the “suckers” (vacuum-operated suction clamps) of a device known as an octopus. Another technique is minimally invasive bypass, which uses small incisions and LIMA grafts. 66 Coronary artery disease Left internal mammary graft Left main stem Saphenous Circumflex artery vein graft Left anterior descending artery Conus Septal branch SA nodal branch Diagonal branch Right Obtuse marginal coronary branch artery Septal branch Right posterolateral branch Marginal branch Posterior descending artery Figure 9.Sites of heart bypass grafting: a saphenous vein graft and a left internal mammary artery graft are shown. Evidence base With these rapid advances in both surgical and percutaneous techniques, much of the evidence base is out of date. For example, there are no definitive data indicating that angioplasty saves lives in stable CAD. Previous trials have shown that CABG can benefit outcome in: symptomatic, significant left main stem disease; symptomatic proximal three-vessel disease; and two-vessel disease including the proximal LAD. Patients with moderately impaired LV function benefit more from CABG than those with poor LV function, who have greater operative mortality (overall mortality is around 2.8%, but rises to 3.7%–12% for an emergency procedure). Most cardiologists believe that new trials will demonstrate a mortality benefit for coronary stenting, possibly for three-vessel disease and perhaps even over and above that of bypass. 67 Chapter 5 Marker Initial Peak Return to Notes rise normal Troponin I/T 2–4 h 10–24 h 5–10 d Troponin I and T are sensitive and specific markers (unlike troponin C). Their blood level clearly relates to risk and thus they represent a powerful tool for risk stratification Creatine kinasea 3–4 h 10–24 h 2–4 d CK-MB is the main cardiac isoenzyme Lactate 10 h 24–72 h 14 d Myocardium mainly dehydrogenase has LDH1 Myoglobin 1–2 h 4–8 h 24 h Convenient early marker due to availability of assay, but not cardiac specific Heart fatty-acid 1.5 h 5–10 h 24 h Undergoing evaluation binding proteins Table 7.Timescales for the variation in levels of markers for myocardial damage. CK-MB: creatine kinase myocardial band fraction; LDH1: lactate dehydrogenase 1. aCreatine kinase has three isoenzymes, of which CK-MB is the most cardiac specific. However, other organs also possess this enzyme in small quantities. It has been suggested that a CK-MB/CK ratio of over 2.5 is very specific for myocardial infarction in the context of chest pain. However, even this is inaccurate in
