Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


quantities. It has been suggested that a CK-MB/CK ratio of over 2.5 is very specific for myocardial infarction in the context of chest pain. However, even this is inaccurate in situations of significant acute or chronic skeletal injury, where CK levels are also high. Acute coronary syndromes: assessment Risk assessment is the key to in-hospital management of acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Patients with ST elevation need to be considered immediately for thrombolysis or acute intervention. Other patients should be closely monitored (preferably in a coronary care unit) if they have risk factors, previous infarction, poor ventricular function, and changing ST segments. In this situation, the key investigation is the measurement of cardiac enzymes. Markers of myocardial damage A number of markers for not only infarction, but also noninfarct ischemia, are now available. The transaminases aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) no longer offer any advantage over the other markers and in fact often cause false-positive results. Timescales of the variation in levels of the most commonly used markers for myocardial damage are outlined in Table 7 and Figure 10. Of the markers in Table 7, troponin I or T are the most specific and sensitive markers to rule acute MI out or in. 68 Coronary artery disease 7 Myoglobin Total CK 6 CK-MB 5 LDH Troponin I 4 3 2 0 20 40 60 80 100 12 140 160 Hours from onset of infarction Figure 10.Appearance of cardiac markers in the blood after onset of symptoms. CK: creatine kinase; CK-MB: creatine kinase myocardial band fraction; LDH:lactate dehydrogenase. Acute coronary syndromes: treatment Pharmacological agents The first-line treatment of any ACS is oxygen, aspirin, heparin, and b-blockade. Clopidogrel is an alternative to aspirin and diltiazem is an alternative to b-blockade. Low molecular-weight heparins have advantages over heparin, such as: • simple administration • better bioavailability • no requirement for monitoring • enhanced antifactor Xa activity • lower rates of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) Nitrates can be given intravenously for closer control of pain, unless there is hypotension or suspicion of a posterior infarction that needs higher filling pressures. Tolerance to nitrates occurs very quickly (24–36 hours) so the quicker the infusion can be weaned, the better. Opiate analgesia is also used for pain. In both cases, there may be benefit from GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors (see above). Patients with positive troponin levels should undergo immediate catheterization. Otherwise, patients should rest until they are pain-free.
