Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


intima is the innermost layer. It consists of a single layer of endothelial cells lining the vessel, supported by a layer of connective tissue. The media is composed of smooth muscle cells and is sandwiched betweenthe internal and external elastic laminae. The adventitia is the outermost layer and consists mostly of collagen fibers that protect the blood vessel. agent individually, there are few data on their effect when used in combination. Until further data are available, both should be given together. Short-acting calcium-channel blockers of the dihydropyridine type are contraindicated in acute MI. The longer-acting dihydropyridines may reduce reinfarction in patients with a first non-Q-wave infarction or inferior infarction in the absence of LV dysfunction and pulmonary edema. However, their benefit over aspirin and b-blockade in the context of MI is unclear. Although warfarin provides no general benefit, in those patients with mural LV thrombus following a large acute anterior MI, it can reduce the overall rate of cerebrovascular complications (2%–3%) by more than half. Thus, it is recommended for up to 6 months following infarction, or longer if the thrombus is still nonlaminar on echo. 73 Chapter 5 Refer with confidence Practices vary enormously from center to center, but it is still common for hospital generalists to manage non-ST elevation, low-risk ACS, and even MI where no facilities for intervention are available. In these situations, the most common scenarios for referral to cardiology would be: • recurrent pain following proven MI • unstable pain that refuses to settle • recurrent episodes of atypical pain with no ECG change or enzyme rise Cardiac rehabilitation Although the general phenomenon of MI has been recognized for about 100 years, for the first 70 years our approach to its treatment was diametrically opposite to that which we now propose. Complete immobilization for anything from 4 to 8 weeks – even to the point where patients were fed, washed, and shaved – was thought to help the heart to form a firm scar. Exercise was thought to increase the risk of ventricular aneurysm, cardiac rupture, congestive heart failure, and sudden death. How bold then were the early pioneers, such as Terry Kavanagh at the Toronto Rehab center, who in 1973 entered seven post-MI patients for the Boston Marathon (all seven finished). Not long after that, as the medical profession gained confidence in this new-found approach, the Journal of Cardiac Rehabilitation was founded by Mike
