Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


for the Boston Marathon (all seven finished). Not long after that, as the medical profession gained confidence in this new-found approach, the Journal of Cardiac Rehabilitation was founded by Mike Pollock and Victor Froelicher, and other pioneers were soon taking the field forward. Today, controlled trials have demonstrated that cardiac rehabilitation is not only safe and saves lives (25% reduction in mortality at 3 years), but is more cost-effective than other post-MI treatment interventions, such as thrombolytic therapy, coronary bypass surgery, and cholesterol-lowering drugs (though less cost-effective than smoking cessation programs). Effective cardiac rehabilitation is multilayered and involves permanent lifestyle changes – such as the incorporation of regular physical activity into everyday life – to improve the risk profile. The many components of rehabilitation are outlined in Table 8. Programs are usually run by specialist nurses and physiologists, together with a cardiologist. However, in the absence of a local formal program, most of the components can be managed in the community. The potential benefits are enormous. The dramatic effect of cardiac rehabilitation is thought to be due to improvements in lipid profile, endothelial function, body composition, autonomic tone, fibrinolysis, and psychological well-being. 74 Coronary artery disease Elements of a cardiac rehabilitation program Initial evaluation •medical history and examination •ECG •risk assessment •goal setting Low-fat diet: a diet high in fiber (>20 g/day), and low in fat (<10% of total amount of calories) and cholesterol (<300 mg/day) Management of lipid levels Management of hypertension Cessation of smoking Weight reduction: body mass index <25 kg/m2 Management of diabetes Psychosocial management •identify depression, anxiety, social isolation, anger, and hostility •stress reduction Activity counseling and exercise training •specific individualized aerobic and resistance training schedule, ie, 30 min/day on at least 3 days a week Table 8.Elements of a cardiac rehabilitation program. Further reading Ashley EA, Myers J, Froelicher V. Exercise testing in clinical medicine. Lancet 2000;356:1592–7. Balady GJ, Ades PA, Comoss P et al. Core components of cardiac rehabilitation/secondary prevention programs: A statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association and the American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation Writing Group. Circulation2000;102:1069–73. Braunwald E, Antman E, Beasley J et al. ACC/AHA Guidelines for the management of patients with unstable angina and non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary and recommendations. Circulation2001;102:1193–209. Gibbons R, Chatterjee K, Daley J et al. ACC/AHA/ACP-ASIM Guidelines for the management of patients with chronic stable angina: executive summary and
