Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


in improving the cardiovascular morbidity and mortality caused by high blood pressure (BP). If untreated, hypertension has serious consequences, including renal disease, myocardial infarction (MI), and cerebrovascular accident. However, many patients do not receive sufficiently aggressive management. Definition There is no natural cut-off between normal and high BP. As a result, many threshold values for treatment have been proposed. Table 1provides a synthesis of guidelines from the major bodies. Accurate BP measurements are complicated by several factors. For example, there is an approximately 12/7 mm Hg difference between BP measurements taken in the clinic and those taken at home – and in many patients it can be significantly more. Similarly, measurements in the clinic cannot control for a large element of random biological variation, diurnal Clinic measurement Home measurement (mm Hg) (mm Hg) Optimal control <140/85 <130/80 Mild hypertension 140–150/90–100 135–145/85–95 Moderate hypertension 150–170/100–110 145–165/95–105 Severe hypertension >170/110 >165/105 Table 1.Guidelines for threshold values between normal and high blood pressure. 77 Chapter 6 variation, and variation due to chance stress (eg, stress due to being in a traffic jam on the way to the clinic). Consequently, it is recommended that at least three readings are taken. The annual risk of death from cardiovascular disease (including stroke) or coronary artery disease can be calculated from the European Society of Cardiology tables or Framingham risk tables. Some bodies recommend that mild hypertensives should only be treated if their cardiovascular risk exceeds 2% per year. This consideration of individual risk is welcome, since until recently most clinical trials have involved head-to-head comparisons of monotherapy, whereas in practice most patients require combination therapy. Causes No cause is identified in 95% of hypertension patients. However, awareness of treatable causes is important, especially in younger patients in whom there is a higher probability of the hypertension being secondary to some other cause. Causes of secondary hypertension are outlined in Table 2. Assessment History History-taking is straightforward since, in most cases, hypertension is asymptomatic. However, symptoms can include headaches, transient ischemic attacks, mild visual disturbances, epistaxes, exertional dyspnea (if heart failure has developed), angina, claudication, weight gain (in Cushing’s syndrome), nocturia, and hematuria (with renal disease). A full drug history is important and must include pharmacologically active preparations such as the combined contraceptive pill and herbal remedies, which are often not regarded by patients as drugs. Other important medications are steroids, sympathomimetics (eg, in cold cures), and
