Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


weight training), stopping smoking, and limiting caffeine intake can all assist in lowering BP and may independently reduce cardiac risk. Pharmacotherapy In most patients, altering lifestyle factors is not enough. For these people, there is the difficult balance of pharmacotherapy. Fewer than half of all hypertensive patients can be controlled on monotherapy, whilst one third require three or more drugs. Knowledge of the mechanisms of action of antihypertensives is important as it allows rational combinations to be chosen based on complementary mechanisms of action. There are four major groups of drug treatments for hypertension and several less frequently used classes. The sites of action of these antihypertensive agents are shown in Figure 1. 82 Hypertension Figure 1. Major physiological mechanisms of antihypertensives. See Figure 2for details of centrally acting hypertensives. ACE: angiotensin-converting enzyme; AT: angiotensin. Beta-blockers Beta-adrenoreceptor blockers have been used for many decades in the treatment of hypertension and are one of the few classes of agents that have been proven to reduce mortality. They work by reducing cardiac output via negative inotropic and chronotropic actions. In addition, they block sympathetic nervous system stimulation of renin release by juxtaglomerular cells. As with all medications, their 83 Chapter 6 use is limited primarily by adverse effects. Asthma is generally considered to be an absolute contraindication, even with agents selective for the cardiovascular system (b -receptors). Peripheral vascular disease and bradycardia are relative 1 contraindications. In susceptible patients, heart block and heart failure may be initiated. The most commonly reported adverse effect is lethargy, and nightmares can occur with lipid-soluble b-blockers. As with all antihypertensives, erectile dysfunction (ED) is a problem. The best guide as to whether ED is iatrogenic is to determine whether the symptoms appeared suddenly. Nevertheless, b-blockers have significant advantages in patients with coexistent angina and anxiety, and also after MI. Diuretics Thiazide diuretics, such as bendrofluazide, are another class of agent for which randomized controlled trial evidence indicates an improvement in survival, and should be the first-line drug in the elderly and in those with systolic hypertension. They work by inhibiting NaCl reabsorption in the distal tubule. This initially leads to an increase in Na+loss and a reduction in plasma volume. However, the plasma volume soon recovers, leaving a reduced total peripheral resistance, for which the mechanism is unknown. Thiazide diuretics are widely used and very cheap, with a moderate side-effect profile (most commonly hypokalemia, dyslipidemia, and
