Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


the treatment of hypertension. They have a good side-effect profile (palpitations and occasional postural hypotension). In addition, they are reported to have beneficial effects on lipid profile and insulin resistance, and lack the negative effects on sexual potency of other antihypertensives, which is a particular advantage for diabetics. They work to reduce total peripheral resistance by blocking the sympathetic activation of a -receptors on resistance vessels. 1 Centrally acting sympathomimetics Clonidine and a-methyldopa, centrally acting a -adrenoceptor agonists, were once 2 popular choices, but are now less widely initiated outside specialist scenarios such as pre-eclampsia. They carry a risk of rebound hypertension on withdrawal. Other vasodilators Other vasodilators, such as hydralazine and the very potent minoxidil, are mostly used in resistant hypertension when standard agents fail. Use of the latter is generally restricted by unpleasant side effects such as hypertrichosis. Imidazoline type 1 receptor agonists The identification of imidazoline receptors has revealed that the effects of older agents on the central nervous system reflect a relatively nonspecific central site of action mediated primarily through a-adrenoceptor agonism (see Figure 2). It seems that 2 some of the adverse effects of these agents, which are also mediated through this pathway, can be avoided by the use of selective imidazoline type 1 receptoragents. Early results suggest these agents are well tolerated, with a dry mouth being the only frequently reported unwanted effect (13% at 3 weeks, 2% at 12 months). 85 Chapter 6 Methyldopa Clonidine Moxonidine Imidazoline α 2 receptors type 1 receptor agents Dry mouth Sedation Inhibition of sympathetic vasoconstrictors Figure 2.Centrally acting antihypertensives. Pharmacotherapy selection In the absence of compelling reasons to choose other medications, the first-line choice should remain a b-blocker or thiazide diuretic. These are the drugs for which clear evidence of mortality reduction exists. In addition, they are generally well tolerated. There are good reasons to consider b-blockers first in younger people and thiazides first in older people. However, the majority of patients will require more than one drug, and the choice should be rational. Here, synergistic action is important (see Figure 2). Good combinations are: • thiazides (which cause secondary hyperreninemia) and ACEIs or ARBs (which block it) • b-blockers (which act to reduce renin release and cardiac output) and calcium-channel blockers (which cause vasodilatation – do not combine b-blockers with verapamil or diltiazem) Following this, it is generally worth trying one of the other classes mentioned
