Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


cardiac output) and calcium-channel blockers (which cause vasodilatation – do not combine b-blockers with verapamil or diltiazem) Following this, it is generally worth trying one of the other classes mentioned above. Treatment will be highly individualized depending on patient tolerance and efficacy, but some guidelines are outlined in Table 5. It is worth taking readings after each change of drug so that agents with no effect can be stopped. Systolic versus diastolic hypertension The question as to the relative importance of systolic and diastolic BP is common in the management of hypertension. For many years it was felt that as systolic hypertension was more common in the elderly it was an inevitable part of aging and arteriolar 86 Hypertension Diuretics b-blockers ACE inhibitors Examples Bendrofluazide, Atenolol, Lisinopril, hydrochlorothiazide bisoprolol ramipril Particularly Elderly patients The young, Diabetics good in: anxious patients Contraindicated in: Gout Asthma, Pregnancy, heart block renovascular disease Angiotensin Calcium- a-blockers type 1 receptor channel antagonists blockers Examples Losartan, Amlodipine, Doxazosin, valsartan felodipine prazosin Particularly ACE cough Isolated Lipid good in: systolic HT abnormalities Contraindicated in: Pregnancy, – Urinary renovascular incontinence disease Table 5.Guidelines for hypertension pharmacotherapy. ACE: angiotensin-converting enzyme; HT: hypertension. stiffening. As a result, the focus was primarily on diastolic BP. In fact, both systolic and diastolic BP predict mortality equally well. However, in the elderly population with predominantly systolic BP, recent evidence suggests it is not the absolute values of systolic or diastolic hypertension, but the difference between the two that predicts mortality best, ie, the pulse pressure. This means that a patient with a BP of 160/80mmHg may be at higher risk than a patient with a BP of 160/90mmHg. This finding, which actually fits well with current thinking on reflected pressure waves in the stiffer arteries of older people, has little therapeutic relevance as yet because we do not have agents that preferentially improve pulse pressure. Thiazides and calcium-channel blockers reduce systolic hypertension more than diastolic, so these are the rational choices. However, the key for the future may be drugs that can restore vascular elasticity, and in this respect nitrates – which donate nitric oxide – are the most promising. Special populations Elderly patients It is a myth that hypertension is “normal” in the elderly and they have less to lose because of a shorter life expectancy. In fact, the absolute benefit from treatment of the elderly is much greater than that for
