Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


the elderly and they have less to lose because of a shorter life expectancy. In fact, the absolute benefit from treatment of the elderly is much greater than that for younger hypertensives because of their 87 Chapter 6 larger absolute risk. However, it is true that the prevalence of hypertension is higher amongst the elderly. Optimum BP levels are the same for older people as they are for younger people, and evidence for treatment benefit extends until at least 80 years. Taking pulse pressure into account (see “Systolic versus diastolic hypertension”, above), the best agents are thiazide diuretics and long-acting dihydropyridine calcium-channel blockers. Ethnic groups Afro-Caribbean blacks have a particularly high prevalence of hypertension and severe complications. Their presentation is unusual in that the renin–angiotensin system is often suppressed. As a result, b-blockers and ACEIs are unlikely to be successful as monotherapy in these patients. Diuretics, calcium-channel blockers, and salt restriction are all effective. Diabetics Hypertension is common in diabetics and plays a major role in the vascular complications of the disease. Recent studies have suggested there is more to gain from controlling hypertension in diabetics than there is in achieving normoglycemia. For this reason, particularly aggressive BP-lowering treatment is warranted in these patients. ACEIs, preferably combined with a thiazide diuretic, are the treatment of choice. Previous avoidance of b-blockers or thiazide diuretics because of possible worsening of glycemic control needs to be reassessed in light of this information. Most recent studies show that both groups of drugs can be safely administered in diabetics. Pregnancy Hypertension occurs in up to 10% of pregnancies. The key distinction is between chronic hypertension in a pregnant woman and pregnancy-induced hypertension (pre-eclampsia) – defined as a rise in BP of >30/15 mm Hg from early pregnancy. Little is known about which agents are truly safe in pregnancy, but methyldopa is generally considered first line, with calcium antagonists or hydralazine regarded secondarily. Labetalol is sometimes used in the third trimester. In addition, trials in pregnant women with pre-eclampsia have suggested that magnesium sulfate injections may reduce the risk of eclampsia developing by as much as half. ACEIs should be avoided. Erectile dysfunction EDis a common problem in hypertensives. It is common because it can be caused by both hypertension (via vascular disease) and its treatment. Differentiating the two from psychogenic causes is a challenge. However, it is made easier by taking a full history: ask
