Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


caused by both hypertension (via vascular disease) and its treatment. Differentiating the two from psychogenic causes is a challenge. However, it is made easier by taking a full history: ask about desire, morning erections, erections during masturbation, the exact timing of onset, life stress, sexual history, alcohol, and nonprescription 88 Hypertension medication. Palpation of the penis for Peyronie’s disease and the testes for atrophy should be added to the routine examination. If ED clearly relates to one particular medication, it is worth trying alternatives. If ED remains resistant, then possible treatments are vacuum devices, intraurethral alprostadil, and sildenafil. Patients with more than three risk factors for coronary disease should have an exercise test before starting sildenafil. Generalist management Hypertension is one of the few cardiovascular conditions where, in theory, the generalist can manage the whole process. Because of the overwhelming likelihood that any given hypertensive patient will have “essential” hypertension, only a small number of routine investigations are warranted. These are: • urine dipstick • blood glucose, electrolyte, and creatinine levels • total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein ratio • electrocardiography However, in a young patient, a patient with severe hypertension without a family history, or with signs or symptoms suggesting a secondary cause, the full investigative program detailed above (see “Investigations”) should be instituted. This is normally done predominantly within a specialist center. Refer with confidence In practice, hypertension specialists tend to see patients from one of the following four categories: • patients with resistant hypertension • patients from special groups with hypertension, eg, pregnant women or young people • patients with known secondary hypertension • patients with possible accelerated hypertension (see below) Most generalists would expect to try at least three agents and carry out basic investigations before referring the patient to a specialist for the management of resistant hypertension. Certainly, it would be unusual to make use of vasodilators in the community. However, in the special groups mentioned above, it would not be uncommon for the full work-up to be done from the beginning in a special center. Clearly, any suspicion of accelerated hypertension should result in immediate referral. 89 Chapter 6 Basic science BP is a normally distributed, polygenic trait. That is, an individual’s BP results from the effects of many genes interacting with each other and the environment. Due in part to this, genetics has so far struggled to explain essential hypertension. However, early studies have
