Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


the effects of many genes interacting with each other and the environment. Due in part to this, genetics has so far struggled to explain essential hypertension. However, early studies have suggested that up to 50% of variation within the general population could be explained by genetic factors. The experimental approach has involved studying affected sibling pairs and scanning the whole genome for chromosomal regions with higher levels of genetic marker similarity. Selectively bred animal models have also been used to study hypertension. Despite much effort, the only mutations that have been convincingly shown to be associated with hypertension are those of the ACEgene, and these gene polymorphisms are more strongly associated with atherosclerotic disease than hypertension. The role of the sympathetic nervous system in hypertension has been debated over many years. Most agree that, together with inadequate salt excretion, it plays an important initiating role (validating the choice of β-blockers as a first-line agent in young hypertensives). However, there is significant controversy as to its continuing role. The prevalent view is that the sympathetic nervous system plays only a minor part in chronic hypertension, and recent studies showing the benefit of ARBs over β-blockers reinforce this. Resistant hypertension Failure to reduce BP to <140/90 mm Hg with three or more drugs qualifies the patient as “resistant”. Resistant hypertensives commonly suffer plasma volume expansion, despite the absence of clinical signs. In this situation, a more aggressive diuretic therapy can achieve targets where other combinations have failed to do so. Secondary causes are common in resistant hypertensives – they should be referred to a specialist to ensure a full diagnostic work-up. Apparent therapeutic failure could be due to noncompliance; many patients who have been prescribed several different tablets for an asymptomatic condition respond by not taking all of the tablets as directed. Therefore, before altering the medication, determine whether the patient is actually taking it. Malignant (or accelerated phase) hypertension In about 1% of patients with hypertension, the condition follows an accelerated course. BP is markedly raised (diastolic >130 mm Hg) and is associated with grade III–IV retinopathy. There may be encephalopathy (headache, confusion, visual disturbance, seizures, and coma), cardiac failure, and rapidly deteriorating renal function. The vascular lesion associated with malignant hypertension is fibrinoid necrosis of the walls of small arteries and arterioles. The prognosis is very 90 Hypertension poor: untreated, 90% of patients die within 1 year, and even with
