Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


hypertension is fibrinoid necrosis of the walls of small arteries and arterioles. The prognosis is very 90 Hypertension poor: untreated, 90% of patients die within 1 year, and even with treatment the 5-year survival rate is only 60%. Malignant hypertension is a medical emergency that requires immediate therapy. However, the fall in BP should be controlled and carefully monitored as cerebral and myocardial perfusion can become compromised, which could lead to infarction (an initial target diastolic BP should be around 100–110 mm Hg). The reduction in BP is achieved with parenteral agents, such as nitroprusside or labetalol, ideally with intra-arterial BP monitoring. If a pheochromocytoma is suspected, drugs such as phenoxybenzamine or phentolamine (a-adrenergic blockers) should be used first. Once the acute episode has been successfully treated, the BP can be further titrated down over the following weeks. Further reading Graves, JW. Management of difficult-to-control hypertension. Mayo Clin Proc 2000;75: 278–84. Hurley ML. New hypertension guidelines. Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure. RN1998;61:25–8. Kjeldsen SE, Erdine S, Farsang C et al. 1999 WHO/ISH hypertension guidelines – highlights and ESH update. J Hypertens2002;20:153–5. O’Brien E, Staessen JA. Critical appraisal of the JNC VI, WHO/ISH and BHS guidelines for essential hypertension. Expert Opin Pharmacother 2000;1:675–82. Ramsay L, Williams B, Johnston G et al. Guidelines for management of hypertension: report of the third working party of the British Hypertension Society. J Hum Hypertens 1999;13:569–92. The American Heart Association guidelines are available at European guidelines are available at 91 92 Chapter 7 Heart failure Background The survival rate for myocardial infarction (MI) has greatly increased in recent years due to the success of thrombolysis and primary angioplasty. However, the ensuing epidemic of heart failure has created a major public health problem. Data from the UK suggest that heart failure affects approximately 2% of the population. Furthermore, the prognosis for chronic heart failure (CHF) is poor: a patient admitted to hospital with pulmonary edema has a poorer prognosis (the 5-year mortality rate is around 50%) than a patient presenting with a carcinoma in any organ other than the lung. The many causes of heart failure (see Table 1) operate through the central mechanism of reduced ventricular function. As a consequence, the heart is unable to perfuse the tissues adequately. The resulting clinical syndrome (see Table2) can be explained by compensatory measures, such as cardiac hypertrophy and activation of
