Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


a consequence, the heart is unable to perfuse the tissues adequately. The resulting clinical syndrome (see Table2) can be explained by compensatory measures, such as cardiac hypertrophy and activation of the sympathetic nervous system and the renin–angiotensin system. Heart failure is categorized as either systolic or diastolic. Systolic dysfunction is due to poor left ventricular (LV) contraction, usually expressed as ejection fraction (EF). Heart failure patients with diastolic dysfunction (more common in the elderly) have normal LV ejection fraction; the defect seems to lie in relaxation of the left ventricle and is associated with delayed filling. For the generalist, one clue to diastolic dysfunction lies in the chest x-ray (CXR), which can show signs of congestion without significant LV dilatation. However, echocardiography is required for a firm diagnosis (see Chapter 4, Understanding the echocardiogram). Causes of heart failure Ischemic heart disease High-output cardiac failure Aortic or mitral regurgitation (volume stress) Anemia Aortic or mitral stenosis (pressure stress) Thyrotoxicosis Congenital cardiomyopathy Septicemia Constrictive pericarditis Paget’s disease Alcohol excess Acromegaly Table 1.Causes of heart failure. 93 Chapter 7 System Change Heart Left ventricular hypertrophy Left ventricular dilatation Changes in calcium-cycling proteins Switch to fetal isoforms of contractile proteins Atrial natriuretic peptide release Brain natriuretic peptide release Release of proinflammatory cytokines (eg, TNF) Lungs Excessive ventilation Increased dead space Kidneys Renin release Erythropoietin release Decrease in glomerular filtration rate Sodium and water retention Posterior pituitary Antidiuretic hormone (vasopressin) release Adrenal glands Aldosterone increase Catecholamine release Autonomic nervous system Activation of sympathetic system Arteries Vasoconstriction Endothelin release Skeletal muscles Endothelial dysfunction Changes to metabolism Wasting Release of proinflammatory cytokines (eg, TNF) Table 2.The multiorgan symptoms of heart failure. TNF: tumor necrosis factor. Pathophysiology The approach to heart failure has changed enormously over the past few years (see Figure 1). Earlier thinking focused on inadequate pump function and the accepted therapeutic wisdom was to bolster it with b-agonist inotropes. The idea of treating heart failure by blocking the sympathetic nervous system would have been regarded as heretical and dangerous. However, it has now been realized that most CHF pathology is a result of the body’s own compensatory mechanisms (see Figure2) and that interrupting these neurohumoral pathways achieves more than attempting to “overdrive” the failing heart. The exception is acute decompensation (acute heart failure, pulmonary edema, cardiogenic shock), where the focus is on short-term survival; although the primary aim is still the reduction of preload and
