Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


The exception is acute decompensation (acute heart failure, pulmonary edema, cardiogenic shock), where the focus is on short-term survival; although the primary aim is still the reduction of preload and 94 Heart failure (a) The old treatment paradigm Fluid overload Pump function Underperfusion of organs Frank–Starling curve (b) The new treatment paradigm End diastolic pressure ADH Volume Renin– overload a syn sg ti eo mtensin Vasoconstriction Preload Afterload Pump function Underperfusion Sympathetic of organs system Tachycardia Coronary perfusion Treatment: interrupt neurohormonal pathways Figure 1.Treatment of heart failure according to (a) old and (b) new paradigms. ADH: antidiuretic hormone (vasopressin). afterload using diuretics and vasodilators, inotropes in the form of b-agonists are also used. Clinical history and examination The hallmark of heart failure is dyspnea. The classic combination of raised jugular venous pressure (JVP), peripheral edema, palpable liver, basal crepitations, tachycardia, and a third heart sound is well known. Orthopnea (shortness of breath when lying flat) and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (acute nocturnal shortness of breath) are both manifestations of decompensation of ventricular function – precipitated by diurnal susceptibility and increased venous return resulting from adoption of the supine position. In an elderly person, the cause of acute shortness of breath can often be difficult to diagnose, and the chest may reveal nothing but coarse breath sounds throughout. In this situation, two factors are helpful: the JVP and overt sympathetic overactivation (cold peripheries and profuse sweating). 95 ecroF Chapter 7 Chronic heart failure Reduced cardiac output Central and peripheral hypoxia Inflammatory cytokine Renin–angiotensin– Sympathetic activation aldosterone activity Endothelial dysfunction Exercise intolerance Figure 2.Chronic heart failure. TNF: tumor necrosis factor. Investigations Electrocardiography The electrocardiogram of a patient with heart failure often shows LV hypertrophy (LVH). This may show a “strain” pattern (LVH plus ST depression), most commonly in the lateral chest leads. Arrhythmias are also common in heart failure. Chest x-ray Classic signs on CXRs are common only for acute heart failure. Typically, some of the following signs are seen (see Figure 3): • cardiomegaly (see Figure 4) • upper lobe blood diversion • “bat’s wing” alveolar edema • pleural effusions • Kerley B lines (lymphatics) 96 Heart failure (a) Prominent upper lobe Alveolar vessels edema (“bat’s wing”) Kerley B lines (interstitial edema) Pleural effusion Cardiomegaly (b) Figure 3.(a) Classic signs of acute heart failure that can be seen on a chest x-ray of left ventricular failure. (b) Pleural effusion on a chest
