Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


Pleural effusion Cardiomegaly (b) Figure 3.(a) Classic signs of acute heart failure that can be seen on a chest x-ray of left ventricular failure. (b) Pleural effusion on a chest x-ray. Echocardiography This is the investigation of choice and can identify and quantify LVH and dysfunction (both systolic and diastolic) as well as examine causes of heart failure, such as valve abnormalities. Blood tests The measurement of natriuretic peptides for the diagnosis of heart failure is not yet routine. However, other blood tests can contribute to the clinical picture. The sodium concentration is often low (<130 mmol/L, despite high total body sodium) as a result of dilution and is a strong prognostic indicator. The potassium level is altered by many of the therapeutic agents and should be kept in the mid to high normal range (4.25–5 mmol/L) to minimize the risk of arrhythmia. If the pulse is of full volume, investigative blood tests for anemia and thyroid function should be carried out. If echo suggests restrictive cardiomyopathy, further tests can be carried out for iron storage disease, amyloidosis, or sarcoidosis. 97 Chapter 7 Figure 4.Cardiomegaly and pleural effusion (on the right side) in a patient with heart failure. Management: acute heart failure The approach to the management of acute decompensation is different from that to CHF. Acute pulmonary edema should be managed by: • sitting the patient up • giving high-flow oxygen • giving diamorphine (2.5–5 mg intravenous [IV]) • giving nitrates (sublingual at first, then isosorbide mononitrate 2–10mg/hour IV) • giving loop diuretics (eg, furosemide [frusemide] 40–80 mg slow IV) Blood pressure is a key measurement and should be considered when deciding the rate of a nitrate infusion or whether to use b-agonists. If the systolic blood pressure drops below 100 mm Hg, consideration should be given to replacing the nitrate infusion with one containing dobutamine (2–10mg/kg/min). Although the effect of an IV diuretic can often be dramatic (probably due to an early effect on pulmonary venous dilatation), nitrates are preferred because, in addition to decreasing preload, they also decrease peripheral resistance and do not reduce cardiac output. It is also important to take the precipitating factor into account. If, for example, a patient is in atrial fibrillation, slowing the ventricular rate may be more effective than a combination of more general measures. Similarly, if a patient has suffered an MI then thrombolysis or intervention may be the key
