Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


the ventricular rate may be more effective than a combination of more general measures. Similarly, if a patient has suffered an MI then thrombolysis or intervention may be the key to their recovery. 98 Heart failure (a) (b) Diastolic Unassisted augmentation systole Assisted systole Assisted aortic and diastolic pressure Figure 5.(a) Insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump and (b) the corresponding arterial pressure waveform. Management: cardiogenic shock Cardiogenic shock, which has a 90% mortality rate, is the most severe form of acute heart failure. It is diagnosed when acute heart failure and hypotension are resistant to the measures described above and there is evidence of tissue hypoxia. Treatment, which should be in the coronary care unit of a specialist center, involves inotropic support, invasive monitoring equipment, intra-aortic balloon pumping, and, in the setting of MI, cardiac catheterization. Intra-aortic balloon pump counterpulsation Intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) counterpulsation was developed in the early 1960s. A balloon is inserted, via the femoral artery, into the descending aorta (see Figure 5). Using electrocardiography for synchronization, the balloon is almost instantaneously, automatically inflated with helium at the onset of diastole, then deflated just prior to systole. This serves a dual purpose: • it improves coronary blood flow by increasing the perfusion pressure in the ascending aorta during diastole • it encourages systemic perfusion by reducing impedance to ventricular ejection at the point of balloon deflation (it creates a negative pressure which helps to “suck” the blood out) Contraindications to IABP include severe aortic regurgitation and aortic dissection. 99 Chapter 7 Class Classification I No limitation of physical activity. No shortness of breath, fatigue, or heart palpitations with ordinary physical activity. II Slight limitation of physical activity. Shortness of breath, fatigue, or heart palpitations with ordinary physical activity, but patients are comfortable at rest. III Marked limitation of activity. Shortness of breath, fatigue, or heart palpitations with less than ordinary physical activity, but patients are comfortable at rest. IV Severe to complete limitation of activity. Shortness of breath, fatigue, or heart palpitations with any physical exertion and symptoms appear even at rest. Table 3.The New York Heart Association functional classification of chronic heart failure. Management: chronic heart failure The chronic form of heart failure is a condition that most generalists treat every day. When referring these patients, it is useful to classify the severity of heart failure. This is facilitated by a very simple scale: the
