Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


condition that most generalists treat every day. When referring these patients, it is useful to classify the severity of heart failure. This is facilitated by a very simple scale: the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification (see Table 3). It is straightforward and provides a common language that is understood by cardiologists worldwide. Diagnosis and assessment The initial diagnosis and assessment of the severity and progression of CHF can be made using echo and exercise testing with gas analysis. The most commonly used echo measure is the EF. This is rated as: • 45%–70%, normal • 35%–45%, mildly impaired • 25%–35%, moderately impaired • <25%, severely impaired • <15%, end-stage/transplant candidates • 5% is compatible with life, but not long life The single best exercise-testing measurement is the maximum rate of oxygen consumption (VO max). In a situation where cardiac and respiratory causes of 2 dyspnea coexist, exercise testing with gas analysis can be particularly useful in discerning which is the greater problem. Treatment The first step in the management of CHF is patient education. It is easy for physicians to forget (since they use the term every day) that, to most patients, heart “failure” 100 Heart failure HISTORICAL HEARTS Hippocrates believed that the left side of the heart and its associated arteries were conduits for air rather than blood. Galen (AD 138–201) thought that blood passed through invisible pores in the ventricular septum. Such was his influence on Roman medical thinking that this idea remained in place until the 15th century when an embargo on the dissection of human cadavers was lifted by the Pope. Not long after this, Leonardo da Vinci and others began to produce detailed anatomical drawings, and William Harvey finally described the function of the heart as a pump that pushed blood through a circulatory system, beat by beat. sounds significantly worse than “myocardial infarction”, “heart attack”, or even “cardiac arrest”. Educating patients about their condition – by giving them information about avoiding excessive salt intake and teaching them how to use their daily weight to monitor fluid balance – will pay dividends in long-term management. Spironolactone, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), and b-blockers are the only agents that have been shown to reduce heart failure mortality, and all are now widely used in the community. However, their use requires caution. Although not strictly necessary, most practitioners use short-acting preparations (eg, captopril, metoprolol) when first
