Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


failure mortality, and all are now widely used in the community. However, their use requires caution. Although not strictly necessary, most practitioners use short-acting preparations (eg, captopril, metoprolol) when first starting these treatments. Diuretics Although diuretics are the mainstay of CHF management, their main role is in symptom control – they may even increase neurohumoral activation. An approach that allows patients to take control of their own diuretic dosage and alter it according to their daily weight (in much the same way as diabetics alter their insulin dosage) may be successful in many patients. It is recommended that diuretics should always be used with an ACEI. In addition, the skillful use of diuretics with complementary actions (see Figure 6, Tables 4 and 5) can aid diuresis and even avoid hospital admission if the balance is upset. Given the choice between increasing the dose of a loop diuretic or adding another agent, it is usually best to add another agent. Spironolactone has been shown to improve outcomes in stage III–IV heart failure with an effect equivalent to that of ACE inhibition (25 mg spironolactone has a beneficial effect on remodeling, but essentially no effect on potassium levels and diuresis). Metolazone is a thiazide-like diuretic that has a powerful synergistic action with loop diuretics, so should be used in the community only as a last resort, for short periods, and be accompanied by daily electrolyte checks. 101 Chapter 7 Spironolactone Thiazide diuretics Na+ CI– Na+ K+ K+H+ H Ni ag +h NLo aw + Collecting Low High duct K+ K+ Distal tubule K+ CI– Na+ Loop diuretics Loop of Henle inhibition Figure 6.The mechanism of action of diuretics in chronic heart failure management. DEFINING HEARTS Pulmonary edema was first explained by Henry Welch, who showed that it could be reproduced by obstructing the outflow of the left ventricle. However, the first definition of heart failure was provided by Theophile Bonet (1620–1689), who published clinico-pathological studies linking the effects of valvular disease and cardiac chamber size to the clinical features of dyspnea and edema. 102 Heart failure Class Compound Mechanism of action Loop Furosemide Inhibit triporter pump in thick ascending diuretics (frusemide), loop of Henle, thus inhibiting Na+ and bumetanide, Cl– reabsorption, which leads to diuresis torasemide and potentially hypokalemia Thiazide Bendrofluazide, Inhibit NaCl reabsorption in the distal diuretics hydrochlorothiazide tubule. The greater Na+ load in the distal tubule stimulates Na+ exchange with
