Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


leads to diuresis torasemide and potentially hypokalemia Thiazide Bendrofluazide, Inhibit NaCl reabsorption in the distal diuretics hydrochlorothiazide tubule. The greater Na+ load in the distal tubule stimulates Na+ exchange with K+ and H+, causing hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis Metolazone Particularly potent diuretic, especially when combined with a loop diuretic Potassium-sparing Amiloride Blocks Na+channels in the distal diuretics nephron Spironolactone Aldosterone antagonist Table 4.Diuretics used in the treatment of heart failure. Treatment of heart failure with diuretics Initial diuretic treatment: • Loop diuretics or thiazides. Always combine with ACEI • If GFR 230 mL/min do not use thiazides, except as therapy prescribed synergistically with loop diuretics Insufficient response: (1) Combine loop diuretics and thiazides (2) Increase dose of diuretic (3) With persistent fluid retention – administer loop diuretics twice daily (4) In severe CHF add metolazone or low-dose spironolactone (25–50mg) with frequent measurement of creatine and electrolytes Potassium-sparing diuretics (triamterene, amiloride, spironolactone): • Use only if hypokalemia persists after initiation of therapy with ACEIs and diuretics • Start 1-week, low-dose administration • Potassium supplements are usually ineffective Table 5.Treatment of heart failure with diuretics (loop diuretics, thiazides, metolazone). ACEI: angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor; CHF: chronic heart failure; GFR: glomerular filtration rate. Reprinted with permission from the European Society of Cardiology (Task Force of the Working Group on Heart Failure of the European Society of Cardiology. The treatment of heart failure. Eur Heart J 1997;18:736–53). 103 Chapter 7 The recommended procedure for starting an ACEI • Avoid excessive diuresis before treatment. Stop diuretics, if being used, for 24hours • It may be advisable to start treatment in the evening, when supine, to minimize the potential negative effect on blood pressure, although there are no data in heart failure to support this. When initiated in the morning, supervision for several hours with blood pressure control is advisable • Start with a low dose and build up to maintenance dosages shown to be effective in large trials • Monitor renal function/electrolytes during drug titration every 3–5 days until stable, and then at 3 months and subsequently at 6-monthly intervals. If renal function deteriorates substantially, stop treatment • Avoid potassium-sparing diuretics during initiation of therapy. Add potassium- sparing diuretics only with persisting hypokalemia or refractory natriuretic therapy. However, spironolactone can safely be added at a dose of 25 mg, since at this dose it has no effect on potassium levels and diuresis • Avoid nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
