Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


digoxin at the ATPase site, digoxin can become toxic in hypokalemic patients. Symptoms of digoxin toxicity are gastrointestinal upset and (more rarely) visual disturbances and headache. However, despite its widespread use, there have been no large, prospective, placebo-controlled trials to determine the efficacy of digoxin in reducing mortality (although it has been shown to reduce hospital admissions). Hydralazine and nitrates The vasodilator combination of hydralazine (up to 300 mg) and nitrates (160 mg isosorbide dinitrate) has been tested with digoxin and diuretics in several large trials and has been associated with mortality reductions in heart failure. However, the advent of ARBs is likely to offer a better alternative to ACEIs than this drug combination. 105 Chapter 7 NYHA Affect outcome Symptom class control only ACEI BB Spironolactone ARB Hydralazine/ Digoxin Diuretic nitrates I + +/– – – + – + II + + – + + – + III + + + + + + + IV + + + + + + + Table 7.Treatment of heart failure according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification of congestive heart failure. ACEI: angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor; ARB: angiotensin receptor blocker; BB: b-blocker. Future directions Areas of controversy still exist in the management of CHF. For example, aspirin is known to be effective as an aid to secondary prevention of coronary artery disease. However, it can reduce the efficacy of ACEIs. Also, despite the high rate of heart failure deaths due to arrhythmia (50%), amiodarone is the only antiarrhythmic (so far) that has been shown to reduce mortality. New agents currently being investigated in trials include: • calcium sensitizers (increase contractile response to intracellular Ca2+) • endothelin antagonists (there are increased levels of endothelin – a potent vasoconstrictor – in heart failure); results of all recent trials have been negative or neutral at best • TNF-aantibodies; recent trials all produced negative results • neutral endopeptidase inhibitors (neutral endopeptidase breaks down atrial natriuretic peptide and brain natriuretic peptide – peptides with diuretic, natriuretic, and vasodilator properties) Heart failure treatments, according to NYHA classification, are outlined in Table 7. Nonpharmacotherapies Recent evidence suggests that individualized exercise training programs can be beneficial in stable, mild to moderate heart failure. Like most other aspects of the treatment of heart failure, today’s advice (exercise) is the opposite of that from 30years ago (bed rest). 106 Heart failure EARLY TREATMENTS The first breakthrough in the treatment
