Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


of the treatment of heart failure, today’s advice (exercise) is the opposite of that from 30years ago (bed rest). 106 Heart failure EARLY TREATMENTS The first breakthrough in the treatment of heart failure was by William Withering (1741–1799), who published observations of the therapeutic use of digitalis (foxglove). Ironically, he believed its main mechanism of action was diuretic. Until the discovery of digitalis, treatment for heart failure had remained unchanged since Egyptian times: bed rest, fluid restriction, and weak herbal diuretics were combined with starvation, laxatives, and venesection. Patients can perhaps derive some solace from the fact they are living today, rather than 200 years ago. Revascularization of patients with heart failure is being considered increasingly as it is realized that chronic LV dysfunction does not necessarily mean permanent or irreversible cell damage. Myocardium that has suffered low-level ischemia and no longer contributes significantly to ventricular function (hibernating myocardium) remains viable, and therefore potentially rescuable. It can be detected by cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging, perfusion imaging, low-dose dobutamine stress echo, or PET scanning (perfusion metabolism mismatch). Many patients with systolic heart failure exhibit significant intra- or interventricular conduction delays (IVCDs) that cause ventricular dysynchrony, recognized by a wide QRS complex on the ECG (typically, a left bundle branch block morphology). Ventricular dysynchrony has several important consequences for cardiac performance, which include abnormal interventricular septal wall motion, reduced diastolic filling time, and prolonged mitral regurgitation duration. In addition, there is a proportional increase in mortality with increasing QRS duration. Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) provides atrial-synchronized, biventricular pacing using standard pacing technology combined with a special third lead. This third lead is implanted via the coronary sinus and positioned in a cardiac vein to sense and pace the left ventricle. Following a sensed atrial contraction, both ventricles are stimulated to contract simultaneously. The resulting resynchronization of ventricular contraction reduces mitral regurgitation and optimizes left ventricular filling, thereby improving cardiac function. Transplantation and ventricular assist devices are options for end-stage disease. Local availability and guidelines vary. Indications are: • severe LV dysfunction (eg, EF <20% as demonstrated by radionuclide ventriculography) • VO max <14 mL/kg/min (patients with values above this tend 2 to have a better prognosis without surgery) 107 Chapter 7 Contraindications center on comorbidities, eg, vasculopathy, diabetes mellitus with target-organ damage, or pulmonary hypertension. In addition, few centers will transplant patients over the age of 60 years. Several studies have shown
