Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


center on comorbidities, eg, vasculopathy, diabetes mellitus with target-organ damage, or pulmonary hypertension. In addition, few centers will transplant patients over the age of 60 years. Several studies have shown clear benefit from a multidisciplinary approach to heart failure treatment. Specialist nurses who visit patients in the community can significantly reduce the rate of hospitalization by helping with exercise, symptom control, and fluid balance, and by alerting the medical team early to any potential deterioration. Palliative care The very poor prognosis associated with heart failure begs the question of the availability of hospice care and end-of-life support for this population. The irony remains that while cancer patients receive end-of-life support and often report dyspnea as an equivalent problem to pain, many more heart failure patients whose chief symptom is dyspnea have a poorer prognosis and go unattended. The management of these patients is an area deserving of more investigation and analysis. For example, what is the place of drugs that are known to help symptoms but which might increase the risk of sudden death (eg, inotropes)? Does “dual- intent” apply? What are the wishes of the patient? As cardiology becomes more technological there is less focus on patients and more on their lesions and the tools used to treat them. Generalists are almost certainly better than cardiologists at practising holistic care. Unfortunately, conventional drugs for the treatment of heart failure do not adequately control the most common symptoms of fatigue and dyspnea. The latter is the most common distressing symptom in refractory heart failure. Maintaining a very close control of plasma volume is facilitated by regular weighing and adjustment of diuresis, but this rarely provides full symptom control. Fortunately, relief is possible through the use of opiates. These drugs reduce preload and afterload, dampen the central respiratory drive, and relieve distress through a central narcotic action. Thus, they are well suited for use in this situation. Drawbacks, such as tolerance and dependence, should not deter their use as studies suggest that they are minimal in this setting. Physical dependence is inevitable, but only relevant in the case of discontinuation of therapy, in which case it can be managed by gradual withdrawal. Morphine can be given at a dose of 2.5mg 4 hourly and as required, with the 4-hourly dose readjusted after 48 hours to take account of interim dosing. Control of constipation should always accompany chronic opioid treatment. 108 Heart
