Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


4 hourly and as required, with the 4-hourly dose readjusted after 48 hours to take account of interim dosing. Control of constipation should always accompany chronic opioid treatment. 108 Heart failure Further reading Jong P, Demers C, McKelvie RS et al. Angiotensin receptor blockers in heart failure: meta- analysis of randomized controlled trials. J Am Coll Cardiol2002;39:463–70. Krumholz HM, Baker DW, Ashton CM et al. Evaluating quality of care for patients with heart failure. Circulation2000;101:E122–40. Niebauer J, Volk HD, Kemp M et al. Endotoxin and immune activation in chronic heart failure: a prospective cohort study. Lancet1999;353:1838–42. Nolan J. A historical review of heart failure. Scott Med J1993;38:53–7. Task Force of the Working Group on Heart Failure of the European Society of Cardiology. The treatment of heart failure. Eur Heart J1997;18:736–53. 109 110 Chapter 8 Arrhythmia Introduction Arrhythmia is an area of cardiology often feared by generalists. This might be related to the inconsistent terminology used in different centers and countries; or perhaps because the most basic tool of diagnosis, the electrocardiogram (ECG), can at times seem the most esoteric. Whatever the reason, few feel completely comfortable when confronted with a patient with ongoing arrhythmia. Despite this, arrhythmia can be simply managed by asking the following question: is the patient compromised? This is the first and single most important question in the management of your patient. The answer will guide your next steps. If the patient is not compromised – no pain, no dyspnea, normal blood pressure, and fully alert – you have some time. Take a short history and examination, get the patient monitored (preferably), and acquire a 12-lead ECG. The findings will help to make a diagnosis that will guide treatment. If a 12-lead ECG is not available, immediately refer the patient to somewhere that it can be performed. If the patient is compromised – with pain, dyspnea, hypotension, and light headedness – this is an emergency and the patient needs an intravenous (IV) cannula inserted and a defibrillator brought in immediately. Treatment then depends on the diagnosis (see Table 1). Clinical examination can help, whether an ECG is available or not. The key thing to remember is that there are few components in the electrical “wiring” of the heart (see Figure 1) and the pulse can only be fast or slow, regular or irregular. If an ECG is available, is the QRS complex narrow or broad? Broad (>0.12
