Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


heart (see Figure 1) and the pulse can only be fast or slow, regular or irregular. If an ECG is available, is the QRS complex narrow or broad? Broad (>0.12 seconds) is more likely to be ventricular tachycardia (VT) and will generally be more concerning than narrow, which suggests a high depolarization site and is likely to be supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). Bradycardia Bradycardia is defined as heart rate <60 bpm, regardless of the cause. However, this is not a particularly helpful definition as it is well known that elite athletes can have “normal” heart rates as low as 30 bpm. In general, bradycardia needs 111 Chapter 8 Pulse Most likely diagnosis ECG to rule out Regular and slow Sinus rhythm Complete heart block (~60bpm) Junctional rhythm Regular and fast Atrial flutter with 2:1 AV block Ventricular tachycardia (~150bpm) Regular and fast AV node re-entrant tachycardia Ventricular tachycardia (>150bpm) Irregular and fast Atrial fibrillation with rapid Ventricular tachycardia ventricular response Irregular and slow Atrial fibrillation with controlled Ventricular tachycardia ventricular response Table 1.Possible diagnoses of an arrhythmic patient. AV: atrioventricular; ECG: electrocardiogram. Bundle of His SA node Left bundle branch AV node Right bundle branch Figure 1.A diagrammatic representation of the electrical “wiring” of the heart. AV: atrioventricular; SA: sinoatrial. Reproduced with permission from Elsevier Science (Hampton J. The ECG Made Easy. Churchill Livingstone, 2003). attention if it is associated with symptoms, hemodynamic compromise, or is the substrate for escape rhythms. Symptoms associated with bradycardia include shortness of breath, fatigue, lethargy, nausea, mental confusion, dizziness, and presyncope or syncope. If there is hemodynamic compromise and interruption of cerebral perfusion is prolonged, grand mal seizures may result (Stokes–Adams attacks). The causes of bradycardia are outlined in Table 2. 112 Arrhythmia Causes of bradycardia Physiological Sinus node disease •Athletic bradycardia Atrioventricular node disease Drugs Abnormal vagal tone •Beta-blockers Carotid sinus hypersensitivity •Rate-limiting calcium-channel blockers Malignant vasovagal syndrome •Digoxin Raised intracranial pressure •Amiodarone Hypothyroidism Ischemia Hypothermia Table 2.Causes of bradycardia. Treatment Acute bradycardia only requires treatment if it is associated with hemodynamic compromise or dangerous escape rhythms. This will most often be the case in the setting of inferior myocardial infarction (MI), but check the temperature! IV atropine at a dose of 500mg can be administered and repeated up to a maximum cumulative dose of 3mg. If this fails, there are two options. (1) External pacing. This is a temporizing measure only. Most defibrillators
