Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


be administered and repeated up to a maximum cumulative dose of 3mg. If this fails, there are two options. (1) External pacing. This is a temporizing measure only. Most defibrillators have detachable modules to facilitate this. Attach electrode gels anteriorly and posteriorly and pace at 80bpm. The procedure is distressing for the conscious patient and should be used with sedative analgesia. (2) IV isoproterenol (isoprenaline) infusion. If the parasympathetic system is entirely blocked, the only alternative is to stimulate the sympathetic pathway. However, this is proarrhythmic and not without risk. Sinus node dysfunction Sinus node dysfunction (SND) is also known as tachycardia–bradycardia syndrome and sick sinus syndrome. These terms encompass a spectrum of disorders of cardiac conduction tissue that are not necessarily confined to the sinus node (eg, atrial conducting tissue and even the atrioventricular [AV] node). The cause is not entirely clear, but inflammation, degeneration, and fibrosis of the conducting tissue are characteristic. SND is most common in the elderly. The spectrum of associated arrhythmias is diverse, but usually includes inappropriate sinus bradycardia, sinus pauses (>3 seconds) with junctional escape, sinus arrest (asystolic pause), atrial tachycardia, atrial flutter, and atrial fibrillation (AF). Commonly, there is alternating bradycardia–tachycardia with a normal sinus rate or bradycardia between attacks. Hence, the diagnostic landmarks 113 Chapter 8 are palpitations (tachycardia), dizziness, and syncope (bradycardia), although the disease is often asymptomatic. SND is diagnosed by a 12-lead ECG and Holter monitoring. Although there is no evidence of mortality benefit (SND does not seem to cause fatal asystolic arrest), consensus exists that a pacemaker (AAI, DDD – see p.135 for a description of the pacemaker codes) should be implanted if there is a clear relationship between bradycardia and cerebral symptoms in the absence of drugs – a diagnosis that may be difficult to secure. In addition, a pacemaker may be considered (AAI, DDD) when bradycardia is secondary to drug therapy necessary to limit tachycardia. Carotid sinus syndrome This term refers to hypersensitivity of the baroreceptor reflex, leading to bradycardia and hypotension. It is usually caused when pressure is applied to the neck around the area of the carotid sinus, eg, when shaving or by wearing a tight shirt collar. It can be predominantly cardioinhibitory (bradycardia, AV block) or vasodepressive (hypotension). Diagnosis is by ECG monitoring during carotid sinus massage. Patients with >3 seconds of asystole benefit from permanent dual-chamber pacing (DDI). Single-lead atrial pacing is
