Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


AV block) or vasodepressive (hypotension). Diagnosis is by ECG monitoring during carotid sinus massage. Patients with >3 seconds of asystole benefit from permanent dual-chamber pacing (DDI). Single-lead atrial pacing is contraindicated because it offers no protection against AV block. In patients with predominant vasodepressor syncope or mixed forms of the condition, pacing only prevents symptoms due to asystole or bradyarrhythmia; it does not prevent neurologic symptoms due to reflex hypotension. Syncope Syncope is defined as a sudden transient loss of consciousness and postural tone with spontaneous recovery. A careful diagnostic evaluation, though often difficult, is imperative in all patients. A vast variety of conditions may result in syncope, including any condition causing relative cerebral hypoxia for ≥10 seconds. It occurs as a result of low cardiac output and can be a consequence of mechanical, rhythm, and vascular disturbances, and noncardiac causes (see Table 3). It should be kept in mind that generalized tonic/clonic movements can be the result of syncope, rather than the cause of it. Evaluation It can be difficult to identify the cause of syncope. Initial clinical evaluation should include supine and erect blood pressures and heart rate measurements. Blood glucose, serum electrolytes, hematocrit, and drug levels (if appropriate) should also be obtained. Assessment of a syncopal event requires information from both the patient and a witness; the pattern can be helpful (see Table 4). A baseline 12-lead ECG may suggest possible causes such as ischemia, Wolff–Parkinson–White (WPW) syndrome, 114 Arrhythmia Type of disturbance Examples Mechanical Cardiac valvular disease Acute myocardial infarction Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy Tamponade Pulmonary embolus Rhythm Sinus node dysfunction Bradycardia Tachycardia Vascular Cerebrovascular disorders Neurally mediated vasodilatation: •malignant vasovagal syndrome •carotid sinus syncope •drug-induced Noncardiac causes Central nervous system substrates, eg, epilepsy, tumor Metabolic/endocrine disturbances, eg, hypoglycemia, hyperventilation Psychiatric disorders Table 3.Disturbances that can lead to syncope. or a prolonged QT interval. In most cases, it will be necessary to refer the patient for additional testing (see Figure 2). Additional testing may include the following. • Documentation of a symptomatic arrhythmia may be achieved by Holter monitoring. However, if syncope is infrequent, event-recorder monitoring may be more helpful. These devices allow patients to turn the device on when the episode begins (or ends, facilitated by the use of a buffer), and thus record over a much greater period of time. • An echocardiogram should be used to detect major structural abnormalities potentially associated with syncope (aortic
