Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


use of a buffer), and thus record over a much greater period of time. • An echocardiogram should be used to detect major structural abnormalities potentially associated with syncope (aortic stenosis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, ischemia). Carotid sinus massage should be performed if bruits are absent. • Before invasive electrophysiological testing, coronary artery disease should be excluded or treated. Electrophysiological testing is indicated whenever an arrhythmia is considered as a probable cause of syncope. • Exercise testing may contribute to establishing a basis for syncope by revealing myocardial ischemia (substrate for ventricular tachyarrhythmias), catecholamine-sensitive tachycardias, exercise-induced AV block, and chronotropic incompetence (SND). 115 Chapter 8 Arrhythmia Vasovagal Neurogenic Premonitory Often none Cough, micturition, Headache, confusion, standing, neck aura extension Episode Sudden Collapse, pale, Fit, eg, tongue biting, collapse unconscious incontinence <1 minute Recovery Feels well Feels ill Often prolonged postictal phase Table 4.Patterns of syncope. (Pre)syncope history and exam Cardiological Neurological ¥ 24—72 hour ECG ¥ EEG ¥ Echocardiography ¥ Carotid Doppler ¥ EP study ¥ CT/MRI ¥ Exercise testing ¥ Coronary angiography Tilt-table testing Figure 2.Evaluation of syncope. CT: computed tomography; ECG: electrocardiogram; EEG: electroencephalogram; EP: electrophysiology; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging. Malignant vasovagal syncope In malignant vasovagal syncope, the sympathetic system is activated via a trigger, usually venous pooling, which forces vigorous contraction of a poorly filled ventricle. This stimulates the mechanoreceptors in the ventricular wall, which lead (via C fibers and the brainstem) to overactivation of the parasympathetic system, and thus bradycardia and hypotension. This reflex is named Bezold–Jarisch after those who first described it (see Figure 3). 116 Arrhythmia C fibers Brainstem Vigorous + Vagal efferents Hypotension contraction of a poorly filled ventricle Sympathetic activation Venous pooling Bradycardia Figure 3.The Bezold–Jarisch reflex. Tilt-table testing If malignant vasovagal syncope is suspected, the key investigation is upright tilt-table testing. This test is performed on a specially designed table with the patient initially in a supine position. He/she is then tilted upright to a maximum of 60°–80°in such a way as to avoid recruiting the postural muscles. This maximizes venous pooling. The patient is left in this position for up to 40minutes. The normal tilt-table response is a baroreceptor-mediated decrease in inhibitory drive to the vasomotor center, ie, vasoconstriction and an increase in heart rate and ventricular contractility. The test result is considered abnormal when symptomatic hypotension is reproduced (Bezold–Jarisch reflex). Treatment Therapy to prevent recurrent vasovagal syncope has included the use
