Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


in heart rate and ventricular contractility. The test result is considered abnormal when symptomatic hypotension is reproduced (Bezold–Jarisch reflex). Treatment Therapy to prevent recurrent vasovagal syncope has included the use of b-blockers and vagolytics (eg, disopyramide). Atrioventricular block AV block occurs when the electrical impulse from the atria to the ventricles is delayed or blocked. 117 Chapter 8 First-degree AV block This is where there is a prolonged PR interval of >200 milliseconds (5 small squares; see Figure 4). No specific therapy is required and the prognosis is excellent. However, it can be a marker for an underlying problem such as myocarditis, MI, degenerative disease, or, most commonly, a drug effect (eg, tricyclic antidepressants). Second-degree AV block This is divided into two types: • type I (Mobitz I or Wenckebach AV block) • type II (Mobitz II AV block) Type I occurs when there is a repeated pattern of progressive prolongation of the PR interval, which eventually results in the failure of conduction of one atrial beat (see Figure 5). The cause is usually benign, but it can be a marker for the same underlying cardiac problems as first-degree AV block. In most cases, treatment is unnecessary. Routine prophylactic permanent pacing is not recommended unless the patient is symptomatic with presyncope, recurrent syncope, or bradycardia that exacerbates congestive heart failure or angina. In type II, most beats are conducted with a constant PR interval, but occasionally atrial depolarization is not followed by ventricular depolarization (see Figure 6). Type II is pathological and indicates disease of the conduction system distal to the AV node. It can frequently lead to complete AV block, causing Stokes–Adams attacks. Therefore, temporary and then permanent pacing (DDD) is indicated in most patients, even those who initially present without symptoms. Third-degree AV block (complete heart block) With complete heart block, there is complete dissociation of the P waves and QRS complexes (see Figure 7). The ventricular escape complexes are usually wide and occur at around 30–40 bpm. There is a significant risk of asystole and thus permanent pacing (DDD) is indicated, regardless of symptoms. Acquired AV block is most commonly due to ischemic heart disease or drug toxicity (in particular b-blockers, digitalis, and calcium-channel blockers). Bradyarrhythmia in atrial fibrillation In patients with intermittent or chronic AF, AV node dysfunction is not an uncommon finding. Clearly, this will be aggravated by many of the rate-limiting drugs given to
