Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


atrial fibrillation In patients with intermittent or chronic AF, AV node dysfunction is not an uncommon finding. Clearly, this will be aggravated by many of the rate-limiting drugs given to control the ventricular rate. In these cases, consideration should be given to the implantation of a pacemaker to protect against bradycardia while still allowing pharmacological control of a rapid ventricular rate. 118 Arrhythmia Figure 4.Electrocardiogram of first-degree atrioventricular block. Figure 5.Electrocardiogram of type I second-degree atrioventricular block (Wenckebach). Figure 6.Electrocardiogram of type II second-degree atrioventricular block (Mobitz II). Figure 7.Electrocardiogram of third-degree atrioventricular block. 119 Chapter 8 Left bundle branch block Right bundle branch block V1 V6 V1 V6 Figure 8.Electrocardiogram patterns of left bundle branch block and right bundle branch block. Bundle branch block A problem in the bundle of His presents in an identical fashion to a combined block of both bundles, ie, complete heart block. However, a more common occurrence is an isolated left or right bundle branch block. These are usually distinct from any problem with AV conduction (ie, they usually coexist with normal sinus rhythm [SR]). The patterns of the ECG are characteristic, but highly variable; the hallmark is a wide QRS complex. • In left bundle branch block (LBBB), the pattern is best detected in V6 where there is an “M” pattern, while in V1 there is a “W” pattern (see Figure 8). • In right bundle branch block (RBBB), the pattern is best detected in V1 where there is an RSR complex, while in V6 there is a QRS complex (see Figure 8). In fact, both LBBB and RBBB are found in the “normal” population. New LBBB is cause for concern, and if it can clearly be related to an acute episode of chest pain then it probably indicates MI. Both RBBB and LBBB probably indicate increased risk for cardiovascular disease; however, neither on its own is an indication for pacing. Fascicular block One confusing aspect of electrocardiology is the terminology used to describe blocks of the fascicles (see Figure 9). The confusion arises from the fact that the right bundleis included in the list of three fascicles: • left anterior fascicle • left posterior fascicle • right bundle branch 120 Arrhythmia Bundle of His Posterior fascicular block Right Anterior fascicular block bundle block Figure 9.Fascicular block. Left anterior and left posterior fascicular block Fascicular block causes axis deviation on the ECG. Therefore,
