Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


broad (>0.12 seconds) or narrow complexes? • are they regular or irregular? More sophisticated interpretation of the ECG is helpful, but the answers to these key questions will be sufficient to guide the immediate management (see Table5). 122 Arrhythmia I aVR V1 V4 II aVL V2 V5 III aVF V3 V6 Figure 11.Right axis deviation. Sinus tachycardia Sinus tachycardia is usually a response to physiological stress such as exercise or anxiety, and it may be the result of an abnormally heightened sympathetic tone. Abnormal pathological causes include fever, hypotension, anemia, thyrotoxicosis, hypovolemia, pulmonary emboli, myocardial ischemia, and shock. Nicotine, caffeine, alcohol, and some medications (sympathetic agonists or parasympatholytic agents) are frequently the underlying cause of sinus tachycardia. The QRS complexes are preceded by P waves of normal morphology, duration, and axis. Sinus tachycardia alone does not require any treatment, but the underlying cause should be determined. Atrial tachycardia Atrial tachycardia can occur in the presence of cardiac or pulmonary disease at a rate varying from 140 to 240 bpm. P-wave morphology is generally different from that during SR, but the P–QRS relationship remains 1:1 (see Figure 12). Some atrial tachycardias are catecholamine sensitive; in this case, a b-blocker is appropriate therapy. Curative radiofrequency ablation of atrial tachycardia is effective in 70% of cases. For refractory cases, creation of complete heart block by radiofrequency catheter ablation with implantation of a permanent dual-chamber pacemaker provides control of the rate and avoids drug toxicity. 123 Chapter 8 Shape of complex Diagnosis Irregular narrow complex Atrial fibrillation Atrial flutter (sawtooth pattern) Multifocal atrial tachycardia (distinct P waves, but with different morphologies) Regular narrow complex Sinus tachycardia Atrial flutter with constant AV block AVNRT Accessory pathway re-entrant tachycardia Irregular broad complex Atrial fibrillation + LBBB/RBBB Atrial fibrillation + other aberrant conduction Regular broad complex Sinus tachycardia + LBBB/RBBB Atrial flutter with constant AV block + LBBB/RBBB Ventricular tachycardia Table 5.Possible diagnoses of tachyarrhythmias based on the electrocardiogram. AV: atrioventricular; AVNRT: atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia; LBBB: left bundle branch block; RBBB: right bundle branch block. Figure 12.Electrocardiogram of atrial tachycardia. Atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia AV nodal re-entrant tachycardia (AVNRT) accounts for more than 70% of cases of paroxysmal SVT (see Figures 13 and 14). This is also termed “classic” SVT with fast (140–250 bpm) narrow complexes and no P waves. Initial management involves interventions to increase vagal tone. These should only be carried out on a
