Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


also termed “classic” SVT with fast (140–250 bpm) narrow complexes and no P waves. Initial management involves interventions to increase vagal tone. These should only be carried out on a monitored patient, and include: • carotid sinus massage – apply firm pressure to one carotid artery at the level of the upper thyroid cartilage and move a small distance back and forth for up to 5seconds (check for bruits first) • Valsalva maneuver – the patient should take a deep breath, then attempt to exhale forcefully against a closed glottis for up to 15seconds 124 Arrhythmia I aVR V1 V4 II aVL V2 V5 III aVF V3 V6 Figure 13.Electrocardiogram of atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia. • diving reflex – this vestigial reflex, which allows marine animals to lower their metabolism when diving underwater, exists in humans and can increase vagal tone. Suddenly immerse the patient’s face in very cold water In a number of patients, the tachycardia (ie, AVNRT) terminates spontaneously with these maneuvers. However, if it does not, you should consider an adenosine challenge. This procedure involves rapid IV injections of increasing doses of adenosine (3–16mg). Adenosine has a very short half-life (10seconds) and produces temporary AV block, which can interrupt re-entry. This procedure is also very useful diagnostically, as the transient AV block can unmask an underlying atrial rhythm. The use of a short-acting b-blocker (eg, esmolol) or a calcium-channel blocker (eg,verapamil) has also been found to be safe and effective in terminating AVNRT. Verapamil is particularly useful in patients with asthma, in whom adenosine is contraindicated. Symptomatic patients with frequent episodes of AVNRT can be considered for radiofrequency catheter ablation of the “slow” pathway; this can be successfully ablated in more than 95% of cases. Ventricular pre-excitation Pre-excitation is defined as an early depolarization of the ventricular myocardium that occurs prior to any conduction through the AV node. The most common condition in which this is seen is WPW syndrome, where there is an accessory AV 125 Chapter 8 (a) Pre-excitation SR VT Accessory pathway AVN AVN Delta wave Short PR interval (b) AVNRT AVN AVN Regular narrow complex No P waves Figure 14.Mechanisms of re-entrant tachycardia. AVN: atrioventricular node; AVNRT: atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia; SR: sinus rhythm; VT: ventricular tachycardia. pathway called the bundle of Kent. The anomalous conducting system can be located anywhere around the mitral or tricuspid rings. Most WPW patients have no evidence
