Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


rhythm; VT: ventricular tachycardia. pathway called the bundle of Kent. The anomalous conducting system can be located anywhere around the mitral or tricuspid rings. Most WPW patients have no evidence of structural heart disease. In the majority of cases, there is only a single accessory connection and the electrophysiological properties of the anomalous pathway differ from those of the AV node. Conduction through the accessory connection is faster and is independent of the heart rate. Consequently, the ventricular myocardium is activated from two directions: through the normal system and through the accessory pathway. The resulting QRS complex is a product of fusion of the two distinct activation wavefronts. Since conduction over the accessory pathway is faster, the initial part of the QRS complex represents ventricular activation through this route (delta wave – see Figure 15). 126 Arrhythmia I aVR V1 V4 II aVL V2 V5 III aVF V3 V6 Figure 15.Electrocardiogram of Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome. The medical treatment of acute arrhythmias in WPW syndrome depends on the type of tachycardia. ECG results can help to determine this. A narrow complex indicates that accessory pathway re-entry is occurring. Treatment should include vagal maneuvers and adenosine as above. A broad complex is likely to be seen when AF is present, and can be particularly dangerous in WPW syndrome. It is characterized by rapid, irregular, wide complexes and should be treated by immediate direct current (DC) cardioversion. Adenosine, verapamil, and digoxin are not appropriate treatments as they increase the possibility of VT. Following acute therapy, radiofrequency catheter ablation can be used as a curative treatment for symptomatic patients with an accessory pathway. Pathways can be successfully ablated in more than 90% of all cases and the recurrence rate after successful ablation is approximately 8%–10%. Severe complications are rare, occurring in 2% of all cases. IN THE BEGINNING… Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome was first described by Frank Norman Wilson in 1915. Another case in a 19-year-old student was reported by Wedd in 1921, and Louis Wolff, John Parkinson, and Paul Dudley White alluded to these two descriptions when they described the disorder in 1930. The original article by these three authors contained an account of a form of bundle branch block in 11 healthy young adults who were subject to episodes of paroxysmal tachycardia. The relative contributions of the authors are uncertain. Wolff (1898–1972) and White (1886–1973) were both US cardiologists, while Parkinson (1885–1976) was an English
