Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


were subject to episodes of paroxysmal tachycardia. The relative contributions of the authors are uncertain. Wolff (1898–1972) and White (1886–1973) were both US cardiologists, while Parkinson (1885–1976) was an English physician: one patient had been seen at the London Hospital, while most of the others were examined in Boston. White was a giant of cardiology – he studied the ECG with Thomas Lewis and was a strong advocate of heart disease prevention through exercise, especially bicycle exercise. A bike path in Boston is named after him. 127 Chapter 8 Figure 16.Electrocardiogram of ventricular tachycardia. Ventricular tachycardia In the acute situation, broad complex tachycardias present a diagnostic challenge because SVT with aberrant conduction can be difficult to distinguish from VT. As mentioned previously, the key question remains – is the patient compromised? Certain features on the ECG can help to distinguish VT from SVT (see Figure 16): • a very broad QRS complex (>0.14seconds) • AV dissociation (but Pwaves are often difficult to distinguish in broad complex tachycardias) • concordance (all QRS complexes in V1–V6 are either positive or negative) • fusion beats • capture beats However, the key test is an adenosine challenge, which will interrupt an SVT but have no effect on VT. If VT is clear from the ECG or adenosine challenge has no effect and the patient is compromised, immediate DC cardioversion is needed. If there is time, a short-acting induction agent should be administered (or IV midazolam can be used). If the patient is losing consciousness, even this can be bypassed. Finally, if the patient loses their pulse, the cardiac arrest protocol should be immediately instituted (see Chapter 1, Cardiac arrest). If the patient is only mildly compromised or suffering recurrent episodes, other therapeutic options are: • IV amiodarone • IV magnesium • IV lidocaine (lignocaine) (no left ventricular [LV] dysfunction) • overdrive pacing (this needs a temporary wire. The stimulator rate is turned up above the VT rate [usually ×3] to “capture” ventricular depolarization, and then gradually turned down) 128 Arrhythmia Figure 17.Electrocardiogram showing torsades de pointes. The chronic investigation and management of VT will be carried out by a specialist (and probably a cardiologist with a special interest in electrophysiology). Investigation will center on finding a cause of VT. In the acute situation, there is often an obvious precipitating event (eg, MI). However, the most common cause of recurrent VT is ischemic heart disease.
