Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


finding a cause of VT. In the acute situation, there is often an obvious precipitating event (eg, MI). However, the most common cause of recurrent VT is ischemic heart disease. Another key aspect of the investigation will be distinguishing between polymorphic and monomorphic VT. The former, in which complexes vary within or between episodes in their pattern, has a stronger association with sudden death. In difficult cases of VT, invasive electrophysiological testing (often with concurrent coronary angiography) is warranted. Control of chronic VT is pharmacological – typical drugs that are used include sotalol, flecainide, amiodarone, propafenone, and disopyramide – although radiofrequency ablation of the right ventricular (RV) outflow tract VT can be successful, and in some cases an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) can save lives. Ventricular ectopics Ventricular ectopics, sometimes known as ventricular premature beats, are common in the general population. The shape of the complex is highly variable and depends on the ventricular source. Their significance is debated. They can be a marker of coronary disease and increased risk, but, without a precipitating cause, treatment generally does not lower risk. Electrolyte abnormalities should be excluded. If ventricular ectopics appear frequently during exercise (eg, an exercise tolerance test), the patient should be investigated further for coronary artery disease. Torsades de pointes This is a form of polymorphic VT that occurs when the SR shown on an ECG has a prolonged QT interval. The ECG exhibits a continuously changing axis (hence, “turning of points”; see Figure 17), which can look like ventricular fibrillation (VF). The prolonged QT interval can be caused by: 129 Chapter 8 Definition Duration of atrial fibrillation Paroxysmal Up to 7 days Persistent Longer than 7 days Permanent Cardioversion failed or not attempted Table 6.Classification of atrial fibrillation. • antiarrhythmic agents • hypokalemia • hypomagnesemia • bradycardia However, in very rare cases it may be congenital (Jervell and Lange–Nielsen syndrome or Romano–Ward syndrome). Atrial fibrillation AF is the single most common cardiac arrhythmia. It is a condition where there is disorganized electrical and mechanical activity of the atria with a mechanism of multiple re-entrant wavelets. It may be chronic or occur in a paroxysmal fashion (see Table 6). On the ECG, it is recognized as an irregular rhythm with absent Pwaves (see Figure 18). Low-amplitude wavelets are frequently seen, but in many cases the baseline is flat. Usually, the ventricular response is controlled by the physiological conduction
