Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


rhythm with absent Pwaves (see Figure 18). Low-amplitude wavelets are frequently seen, but in many cases the baseline is flat. Usually, the ventricular response is controlled by the physiological conduction delay of the AV node and the ventricular response is slower in patients with diseases of the conducting system, in the elderly, or in individuals receiving medications that impair AV nodal conduction (eg, b-blockers, digitalis, or calcium-channel blockers). With intense sympathetic stimulation, it may be as rapid as 160–180bpm. The clinical manifestations of AF range from a complete absence of symptoms (usually in the young and fit) to hemodynamic collapse (in the elderly or those with systolic dysfunction). In addition to symptoms of palpitations, patients with AF have an increased risk of stroke and may also develop decreased exercise tolerance and LV dysfunction. The incidence of AF increases with age and its development is concentrated in patients with hypertensive heart disease, congestive heart failure, and rheumatic heart disease; the association with coronary artery disease is not as strong as with these other conditions. Among the noncardiac causes of AF, the association is strongest with hyperthyroidism, electrolyte abnormalities, and alcohol excess. The patient with newly discovered AF You will often be faced with a patient presenting with or without symptoms of AF, and an ECG showing the classic irregular rhythm with a flat or irregular baseline 130 Arrhythmia Figure 18.Electrocardiogram of atrial fibrillation with irregular rhythm and absent P waves. (see Figure 18). The approach to management is guided, as before, by the clinical picture – is the patient compromised? If the answer is yes, you should refer immediately. If not, you then have to decide whether the AF is persistent or paroxysmal (see Figure 19). A large proportion of patients experience spontaneous cardioversion within 24–48hours of AF onset, but it is rarely clear whether this is their first episode. The best approach is to teach the patient to take his or her own pulse and monitor its regularity. This way, you can gain some idea of how long the patient spends in AF and in SR over the next few days. If they spontaneously cardiovert, chronic treatment of paroxysmal AF takes three forms: • anticoagulation • rate control (if necessary) • antiarrhythmics (the choice of which is guided by symptoms) Most recent studies show that even patients with paroxysmal AF or successful cardioversion should remain on anticoagulation (warfarin, international normalized
