Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


• antiarrhythmics (the choice of which is guided by symptoms) Most recent studies show that even patients with paroxysmal AF or successful cardioversion should remain on anticoagulation (warfarin, international normalized ratio [INR] 2–3) since these individuals have a greater risk of cerebrovascular events than of bleeding complications. The use of rate control and antiarrhythmics is also individualized – some patients will require neither. However, a good choice is a beta-blocker (eg, carvedilol, metoprolol), which can impact both of these factors. Another choice for patients with heart failure or hypertension associated with AF is flecainide (in the absence of coronary artery disease) or amiodarone (if coronary artery disease is present). If, several days following chronic treatment, patients remain in AF, there are two avenues of management: accept progression to permanent AF (and attend to rate control and anticoagulation) or attempt cardioversion. 131 Chapter 8 Newly discovered AF Paroxysmal Persistent No therapy needed unless severe symptoms (eg, Rate control and hypotension, HF, Accept anticoagulation angina pectoris) permanent AF as needed Rate control and Consider Anticoagulation anticoagulation antiarrhythmic as needed as needed drug therapy Cardioversion Long-term antiarrhythmic drug therapy unnecessary Figure 19.Pharmacological management of patients with newly discovered atrial fibrillation (AF). HF: heart failure. Reproduced with permission from the European Society of Cardiology (Fuster V, Ryden LE, Asinger RW. ACC/AHA/ESC Guidelines for the Managment of Patients with Atrial Fibrillation. Eur Heart J2001;22:1852–923). 132 Arrhythmia Deciding between the two (the decision will often be in the hands of the cardiologist) is influenced by several factors: • How long has AF been present? • How likely is SR to be maintained? • What is the risk of thromboembolism? • How severe are the symptoms? Patients with longstanding AF or AF caused by structural abnormalities are least likely to stay in SR. Most cardiologists would agree that every patient should have one attempt at restoration of SR. However, this is not always the best policy. For example, in an elderly patient with asymptomatic, rate-controlled AF, the toxicity of antiarrhythmics may outweigh the benefit of restoration of SR. The following points regarding treatment are helpful when treating a patient with AF. • Regardless of the treatment strategy, all patients should have an ECG, chest x-ray, echo, and testing of thyroid function. • If the decision is made to accept permanent AF, then control the rate with a combination of digoxin, a b-blocker, or a rate-limiting calcium- channel
