Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


testing of thyroid function. • If the decision is made to accept permanent AF, then control the rate with a combination of digoxin, a b-blocker, or a rate-limiting calcium- channel antagonist, and anticoagulate with warfarin, aiming for an INR of 2–3. The INR should be determined weekly (at least) in the initial stages and monthly thereafter. Patients over the age of 75years who are considered at high risk for bleeding complications can be targeted to a lower INR of 2. In patients with contraindications to full anticoagulation, a daily dose of 300mg aspirin can be used as an alternative to warfarin. • If elective cardioversion is to be attempted, patients should be anticoagulated for 4 weeks with warfarin (aim for an INR of 2–3.5) and potassium levels should be kept in the upper normal range (>4.2 mmol) as this increases the chance of success of the cardioversion. Cardioversion can be electrical or chemical. If DC cardioversion is used, the patient receives a general anesthetic with a short-acting induction agent (usually propofol) and then receives shocks (synchronized to the R waves) of increasing energy: 100J, 200J, 360J, and 360Jusing paddles on the anterior and posterior chest (the patient lies on their side). Chemical cardioversion is also possible using flecainide. In the event of successful cardioversion, patients should continue warfarin for at least 4 weeks. This is because the thromboembolic risk relates to “stunned” atria that do not resume normal mechanical function during this time. 133 Chapter 8 FAMOUS SCOTS The first insight into the mechanism of irregular pulse in atrial fibrillation was provided by James Mackenzie, a Scottish GP who used an ink polygraph to record and label jugular venous pulses. He noticed that the jugular “a” wave was lost when patients went from a normal to an irregular rhythm. New directions in the management of atrial fibrillation It has recently been established that triggers in pulmonary veins can initiate AF and that circumferential or segmental disconnection of these veins at the left atrial junction can provide effective therapy. In certain patients, success rates for catheter- based pulmonary vein isolation range from 70% to 90%, but more than one procedure is often necessary. Surgery for AF is now usually reserved for use as an adjunctive treatment in patients having mitral or coronary surgery. Nevertheless, the large experience of the Maze procedure provides an important source of information to guide those performing
