Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


Table 7). Pacemaker codes Pacemaker codes are, to many, one of the most confusing aspects of electrocardiology (see Table8). In fact, the labels, which are standardized, tell you all you need to know about the underlying programming and, in combination with the basic electrical wiring diagram of the heart (see Figure 1), can allow you to diagnose most problems. The first letter refers to the chamber or chambers paced (atrium, ventricle, both [dual]). The second letter refers to the chamber sensed (atrium, ventricle, both [dual]) and the third letter details the response to sensing (triggered, inhibited, both [dual]). Thus, the most common pacemaker codes are the following. (1) DDD – this box senses both chambers and if it detects a missing or late atrial or ventricular contraction it will pace one or both. The most common scenarios are: • sinus bradycardia – atrial pacing will “kick in” and, assuming AV conduction is normal, no ventricular pacing will occur • AV block (Mobitz type II; third-degree) – the ventricle is paced either following a normal atrial contraction or a paced atrial contraction. The benefit of this – that ventricular contraction will “track” the increased 135 Chapter 8 Indication Pacemaker Clear consensus type for indication Sick sinus syndrome bradycardia AAI, DDD Yes Carotid sinus syndrome syncope DDI Yes Complete heart block DDD Yes (third-degree AV block) Mobitz II block (second-degree AV block) DDD Yes AF + AV block (pauses >3 seconds, VVI(R) Yes ventricular rate <40 bpm) Trifascicular block DDD No Malignant vasovagal syndrome DDI No Table 7.Standard indications for pacemakers. AF: atrial fibrillation; AV: atrioventricular. atrial rate of exercise tachycardia – is also its biggest drawback; it will also increase the ventricular pacing rate in the presence of abnormally increased atrial contraction, eg, atrial tachycardia (2) VVI – this type of box is considerably cheaper than those boxes capable of DDD programming. It senses and paces only the ventricle and, consequently, only requires one lead. VVI boxes are indicated for use in AF with bradycardia and AV block, and in sinus bradycardia with no AV block. They can cause pacemaker syndrome and retrograde atrial tachycardia. They can also trigger AF. (3) AAI – this device senses and paces only the atrium. It does not pace if a normal P wave is sensed. Thus, it is indicated for use in sick sinus syndrome to prevent bradycardia. (4) Rate-adaptive pacemakers, eg, VVI(R). Some
