Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


rate of the VT (to try to achieve capture) • low-energy shock • high-energy shock The programming of AICDs is sophisticated and is carried out by telemetry (a magnet detector is placed over the unit). The energy of shock delivered by the AICD is a magnitude less than that delivered across the chest wall by an external defibrillator (internal 5–35 J, external 100–360 J). If an AICD delivers a shock, it is important to refer the patient to the nearest center where the unit can be interrogated. Electrophysiological studies Electrophysiology is a rapidly advancing field in which the potential indications currently outweigh the availability of facilities. The indications for electrophysiology are detailed in Table9. The essence of the electrophysiological test is a measurement of the intracardiac ECG: (1) during normal SR; (2) during an induced arrhythmia; and (3) following premature extrastimuli. 140 Arrhythmia Potential indications for electrophysiology Sinus node dysfunction •to evaluate the AV node or where the link between symptoms and arrhythmia is not secure AV block •suspected infranodal block (ie, pathology of the bundle of His or Purkinje fibers) •intraventricular conduction delay Frequent AVNRT •especially if frequent episodes occur despite drug treatment Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome •to characterize the accessory pathway and ablate it Unexplained syncope •after a negative tilt test, or in the presence of known heart disease Cardiac arrest •in the absence of myocardial infarction Table 9.Potential indications for electrophysiology. AV: atrioventricular; AVNRT: atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia. Class Typically Mechanism Action Uses potential duration 1a Quinidine, Block sodium channels ↑ Supraventricular procainamide, (short dissociation and ventricular disopyramide time) tachycardias Rarely used 1b Lidocaine Block sodium channels ↓ Ventricular (lignocaine) (medium dissociation tachycardias time) Used post-MI 1c Flecainide, Block sodium channels ↔ Ventricular propafenone (long dissociation time) tachycardia 2 b-blockers, Abrogate sympathetic ↔ Commonly used for (eg, atenolol) drive ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias post-MI 3 Amiodarone, Inhibit potassium ↑ Commonly used for sotalol current ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias 4 Diltiazem, Block L-type calcium Block at Ventricular rate control verapamil channels AV node Termination of SVT Table 10.The Vaughan-Williams classification of antiarrhythmic drugs. AV: atrioventricular; MI: myocardial infarction; SVT: supraventricular tachycardia; ↑: increase in duration; ↓: decrease in duration; ↔: no change in duration. 141 Chapter 8 Inward Na+channels 50 Inward Outward Ca2+channels K+channels Lidocaine (lignocaine) 0 P2 Flecainide Quinidine b-Blockers P0 Amiodarone Sotalol –50 P3 Threshold P4 –100 Figure 21.Drugs used in the treatment of arrhythmia. The typical cardiac
