Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


Inward Outward Ca2+channels K+channels Lidocaine (lignocaine) 0 P2 Flecainide Quinidine b-Blockers P0 Amiodarone Sotalol –50 P3 Threshold P4 –100 Figure 21.Drugs used in the treatment of arrhythmia. The typical cardiac action potential is also shown: a fast sodium current and slower calcium current depolarize cardiac cells. The plateau phase caused by calcium entry contributes to the long refractory period, which protects the heart from re-excitation. Measurements are usually taken from several intracardiac sites, allowing identification of sinus node function and recovery, sinoatrial conduction, AV nodal conduction, and triggered ventricular arrhythmias. Treatment is with radiofrequency stimulation, which can ablate accessory pathways or interrupt re-entry circuits. Drugs in arrhythmia Table 10 describes the Vaughan-Williams classification of antiarrhythmic drugs, and Figure 21 outlines the drugs used in the treatment of arrhythmia. 142 )Vm( laitnetop enarbmeM Arrhythmia Further reading Fuster V, Ryden LE, Asinger RW et al. ACC/AHA/ESC Guidelines for the Management of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation: Executive Summary. A Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the European Society of Cardiology Committee for Practice Guidelines and Policy Conferences (Committee to Develop Guidelines for the Management of Patients With Atrial Fibrillation) Developed in collaboration with the North American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology. Eur Heart J2001;22:1852–923. Guidelines for Clinical Intracardiac Electrophysiological and Catheter Ablation Procedures. A report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. (Committee on Clinical Intracardiac Electrophysiologic and Catheter Ablation Procedures). Developed in collaboration with the North American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology. Circulation1995;92:673–91. Silverman ME. From rebellious palpitations to the discovery of auricular fibrillation: contributions of Mackenzie, Lewis and Einthoven. Am J Cardiol1994;73:384–9. Wolff L, Parkinson J, White PD. Bundle-branch block with short P-R interval in healthy young people prone to paroxysmal tachyardia. Am Heart J1930;5:685. 143 144 Chapter 9 Valve disease Disease of the heart valves remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality across the world. While advances in echocardiography and the widespread availability of antibiotics have changed the prevalence, management, and especially the diagnosis of valve disease for specialists, very little has changed for generalists, who hear heart murmurs lessfrequently. Even though echo diagnosis is not readily available to generalists, they nevertheless feel pressured to identify murmurs and to report them, with their associated signs, in the referral letter. Similarly, for many examiners, the appeal of obscure murmurs for clinical short-case exams remains too
