Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


and calcification many years following rheumatic fever. Senile aortic stenosis Senile, or degenerative, AS results from calcium deposition on the aortic surface of the valve. This is becoming an increasingly important disability problem in the elderly. Physical signs • The carotid pulse is slow rising with reduced amplitude. • The venous pressure is usually normal until late in the disease. 146 Valve disease Aortic stenosis Aortic regurgitation Signs Slow rising pulse Collapsing pulse ↓Pulse pressure ↑Pulse pressure Radiates to carotids EDM S1 EC ESM A2 P2 S1 S2 S1 S2 (soft) Can be palpable thrill Displaced, volume-loaded apex Causes Bicuspid valve Rheumatic valve disease Rheumatic valve disease Infective endocarditis Age-related calcification Marfan’s syndrome Endocarditis Inflammatory disease (ankylosing spondylitis, SLE, rheumatoid arthritis) Reiter’s syndrome Relapsing polychondritis Dissecting aneurysm Syphilitic aortitis Table 2.Clinical signs in aortic stenosis and aortic regurgitation. EC: ejection click; EDM: early diastolic murmur; ESM: ejection systolic murmur; SLE: systemic lupus erythematosus. • The apex beat is sustained and can be doubled due to an additional atrial component. • On auscultation, the second heart sound is single when the valve is calcified due to a lack of aortic component. The classic ejection systolic murmur, which can radiate to one or both carotids, is usually heard best over the aortic area. A soft, early diastolic murmur of aortic regurgitation (AR) often coexists. Investigation and management Echo is the diagnostic tool of choice for valve disease – in particular, Doppler measurement of valve gradients can quantify lesions. Significant hemodynamic changes do not occur until the aortic valve area has been reduced to a quarter of its normal size (the normal orifice is 3–4 cm2). AS is classed as: • mild if the area is >1.5 cm2 • moderate if the area is 1–1.5 cm2 • severe if the area is <1 cm2 147 Chapter 9 THE INVENTION OF THE STETHOSCOPE “In the summer of 1816, Laennec was called to a young lady who presented the general symptoms of disease of the heart; the application of the hand to the chest and percussion afforded very little assistance, and immediate auscultation was interdicted by the sex and embonpointa of the patient. The recollection of the well-known fact, that the tap of a pin at one end of a beam could be heard distinctly at the opposite end, induced him at the moment, to avail himself of this acoustic phenomenon. He took a quire
