Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


echo window is poor. Cardiac catheterization is only required in patients at risk of CAD prior to AVR or where other tests are equivocal. 151 Chapter 9 Asymptomatic patients with no LV dysfunction should be encouraged to participate in all forms of normal daily activity, including exercise (although lifting weights should be avoided). Vasodilator therapy can, in theory, retard the natural history of chronic AR by reducing the regurgitant volume. However, very few studies have actually examined the effect of this treatment on the long-term outcome. Indications for vasodilator therapy (generally using long-acting nifedipine) are: • long-term therapy in patients with severe regurgitation who have symptoms and/or LV dysfunction, when surgery is not recommended • long-term therapy in asymptomatic patients with severe regurgitation who have LV dilatation, but normal systolic function • long-term therapy in asymptomatic patients with hypertension and any degree of regurgitation • long-term therapy in patients with persistent LV systolic dysfunction after AVR (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor) • short-term therapy to improve the hemodynamic profile of patients with severe heart failure symptoms and severe LV dysfunction before proceeding with AVR Asymptomatic patients with mild AR and normal LV systolic function should be seen by a cardiologist annually and undergo echo every 2–3 years. Asymptomatic patients with normal systolic function, but severe AR and significant LV dilatation (end diastolic diameter >6 cm), require more frequent evaluation. These patients should be seen by a cardiologist every 6 months and undergo echo every 6–12months. Mitral stenosis The MV apparatus consists of three components: two leaflets, the fibrous annulus, and the chordae tendineae, which connect the leaflets to the papillary muscles (see Figure 1). The anterior leaflet is larger than the posterior leaflet (see Figure 2). The normal area of the MV orifice is 4–5 cm2. Symptoms of mitral stenosis (MS) develop when the orifice is <2.5 cm2and a critical stenosis occurs when it is approximately 1 cm2 (seeFigure 3). The signs and causes of MS are outlined in Table 3. Causes Rheumatic heart disease is the most common cause of MS, although it pre-dates the symptoms by at least 10 years. Other acquired causes are rare – eg, annular calcification, endocarditis, or granulomatous infiltration in association with eosinophilia. 152 Valve disease Anterior leaflet Anteromedial commissure Anterior annulus Posterior leaflet Posterolateral (three lobes) commissure Posterior Chordae tendineae annulus Lateral papillary Medial papillary muscle muscle Figure 1.The structure of the mitral valve apparatus.
