Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


Anterior leaflet Anteromedial commissure Anterior annulus Posterior leaflet Posterolateral (three lobes) commissure Posterior Chordae tendineae annulus Lateral papillary Medial papillary muscle muscle Figure 1.The structure of the mitral valve apparatus. Figure 2.A calcified mitral valve posterior leaflet in diastole. Signs Symptoms of MS generally occur during exertion, infection, stress, or with the onset of atrial fibrillation (AF) with a rapid ventricular response. This is because a left atrial (LA) pressure that is normal at rest rises with an increase in transmitral flow or a decrease in the diastolic filling time. The most common manifestation is breathlessness, but a reduction in exercise tolerance or symptoms of right-sided congestion can also occur. The typical 153 Chapter 9 Figure 3.Mitral stenosis with left atrial dilatation. This figure shows a thickened mital valve arrow. The spontaneous contrast is a good illustration of the thrombogenicity of the blood in the left atrium. This is believed to be the first step before the formation of thrombi, which then result in emboli. Mitral stenosis Mitral regurgitation Signs Opening snap Presystolic accentuation Pansystolic (cid:2) murmur (cid:2) S1 S2 Murmur S1 S2 S1 S2 S3 (lou(cid:2)d) (cid:2)(loud) (soft) Tapping apex beat Malar flush Parasternal heave P mitrale on ECG Apex beat is sustained and Parasternal heave prominent and there may be a systolic thrill at the apex Causes Rheumatic valve disease Rheumatic valve disease Age-related calcification Mitral valve prolapse Endocarditis Degenerative valve disease Granulomatous infiltration Infective endocarditis Ischemia Table 3.Common murmurs in mitral stenosis and mitral regurgitation with their associated signs and causes. physical signs are described in Table 4. Figure 4 demonstrates MS in echo, electrocardiography pressure tracing, and a chest x-ray. Natural history The disease takes a slow course with progressive acceleration later in life. In developed countries, the lag period from the time of rheumatic fever to the onset of symptoms is 20–40 years, and there is another 10 years before these symptoms 154 Valve disease Typical physical signs of mitral stenosis Irregular pulse of atrial fibrillation Rise in jugular venous pressure (with coexistent tricuspid regurgitation) Parasternal heave with right ventricular hypertrophy Loud first heart sound Tapping apex beat (manifestation of a loud first heart sound) Opening snap, which disappears as the leaflets become rigid Classic late diastolic murmur with presystolic accentuation (the longer the murmur, the more severe the lesion) Table 4.The typical physical signs of mitral stenosis. (a) (b) Left atrium (c) Left ventricle
