Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


late diastolic murmur with presystolic accentuation (the longer the murmur, the more severe the lesion) Table 4.The typical physical signs of mitral stenosis. (a) (b) Left atrium (c) Left ventricle Figure 4.Mitral stenosis demonstrated by (a) echocardiography (showing thickened leaflets that no longer open), (b) electrocardiography pressure tracing in the left atrium versus left ventricle demonstrating the gradient between the two cavities (and therefore mitral stenosis), and (c) chest x-ray. become disabling. The 10-year survival rate is high for asymptomatic patients (>80%), but low for those with symptoms (0%–15%). Asymptomatic patients with mild MS (MV area >1.5 cm2) require no further evaluation and do not need to be followed up more than annually. Percutaneous and surgical therapy Decisions on therapy are made by joint consideration of symptoms and MV morphology (including hemodynamics and pulmonary artery pressure). Therapeutic options include MV repair (open/closed commissurotomy), MV replacement, and percutaneous valvotomy. 155 Chapter 9 Current recommendations for surgical therapy Percutaneous NYHA class II–IV symptoms, MVA <1.5 cm2, and no valvotomy LA thrombus or MR Asymptomatic patients, MVA ≤1.5 cm2, pulmonary hypertension (>50 mm Hg), and no LA thrombus or MR NYHA class III–IV symptoms, MVA ≤1.5 cm2, and at high surgical risk MV repair NYHA class III–IV symptoms, MVA ≤1.5 cm2, and one of the following: •percutaneous valvotomy is not available •LA thrombus is resistant to anticoagulation •an intraoperative decision on repair versus replacement will be made MV replacement NYHA class I–II symptoms, MVA ≤1 cm2, and severe pulmonary hypertension (>60 mm Hg) NYHA class III–IV symptoms, MVA ≤1.5 cm2, and not suitable for repair or valvotomy (calcification, fibrosis, subvalvular fusion) Table 5.Current recommendations for surgical therapy. LA: left atrium; MR: mitral regurgitation; MV: mitral valve; MVA: mitral valve area; NYHA:New York Heart Association. Both repair and percutaneous valvotomy acutely result in a doubling of the valve area and a 60% reduction in transmitral gradient. However, open commissurotomy and percutaneous valvotomy produce better long-term hemodynamic results. The current recommendations for percutaneous and surgical therapy are outlined in Table 5. Medical therapy Prophylaxis against rheumatic fever and endocarditis should be considered for all patients with MS. Agents with negative chronotropic properties, such as b-blockers or calcium-channel blockers, may benefit those in sinus rhythm with symptoms relating to exertional tachycardia. Atrial fibrillation AF develops in 40% of patients with symptomatic MS and should be treated according to standard protocols (see Chapter 8, Arrhythmia). The value
