Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


symptoms relating to exertional tachycardia. Atrial fibrillation AF develops in 40% of patients with symptomatic MS and should be treated according to standard protocols (see Chapter 8, Arrhythmia). The value of anticoagulation therapy for those with AF and those with a prior embolic event with or without AF is clear. However, there is no evidence that oral anticoagulation is beneficial in those with MS who have neither AF nor a prior embolic event. The frequency of embolic events does not seem to be related to the severity of MS, the size of the LA, or the presence of symptoms. There is some controversy over 156 Valve disease (a) (b) Figure 5.(a) Transesophageal echocardiography showing a tear in the papillary muscle (the most common cause of acute mitral regurgitation).(b) The same scene with a color jet from the left ventricle into the left atrium, demonstrating “blood flow” in the wrong direction. whether percutaneous mitral valvotomy should be performed in patients with new- onset AF and moderate or severe MS who are otherwise asymptomatic. Mitral regurgitation Acute mitral regurgitation In acute severe mitral regurgitation (MR), the hemodynamic changes are not tolerated and the result is generally acute decompensation. Without time for compensatory LV and LA dilatation, the increase in ventricular preload leads to a decreased stroke volume and pulmonary congestion. However, examination findings may not be typical: • there may be no hyperdynamic apex beat • the systolic murmur may be short • there may be a fourth heart sound The most common cause of acute MR is papillary muscle rupture secondary to myocardial infarction (MI) (seeFigure 5). In this situation, the principal differential diagnosis is ventricular septal defect and an echo is required to differentiate between the two. Ventricular septal defect is more likely with: • right-sided radiation of murmur • raised jugular venous pressure (JVP) • anterior MI (inferior MI is more likely to cause acute MR) The goal of medical therapy in acute severe MR is to diminish regurgitation, increase stroke volume, and reduce pulmonary congestion. As such, nitroprusside alone or in combination with dobutamine (if blood pressure is low) can be 157 Chapter 9 Figure 6.Echocardiogram showing a vegetation on the mitral valve (arrow). Clinical signs of chronic mitral regurgitation Prominent and sustained apex beat Systolic thrill at the apex Left parasternal heave – resulting from left atrium expansion, rather than right ventricular hypertrophy Soft first heart sound
