Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


mitral regurgitation Prominent and sustained apex beat Systolic thrill at the apex Left parasternal heave – resulting from left atrium expansion, rather than right ventricular hypertrophy Soft first heart sound Pansystolic murmur at the apex that radiates into the axilla Third heart sound that is high pitched due to high early diastolic filling velocities Table 6.The clinical signs of chronic mitral regurgitation. effective. Intra-aortic balloon pumping can also help to achieve these goals. In many cases, emergency surgery is warranted. If so, prior transesophageal echo helps to characterize the anatomy and severity of the lesion. Cardiac catheterization should be performed if the patient is at high risk for CAD. Chronic mitral regurgitation Causes • Degenerative MV disease is common in the elderly. The valve leaflets are thickened, redundant, increased in area, and they prolapse into the LA in systole. The chordae may become elongated, thinned, and tortuous – predisposing to rupture. 158 Valve disease Optimal sarcomere length Actin Actin Frank–Starling curve Normal resting length Sarcomere length LV dysfunction Ventricular end-diastolic volume Figure 7.Frank–Starling curve showing left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. • Infective endocarditis is a major cause of chronic MR. Vegetations developing on the cusp vary from small nodules along the line of apposition to large friable masses of up to 10 mm or more (see Figure 6). “Jet” lesions on the anterior cusp of the MV can also occur in association with aortic valve endocarditis. • Ischemia. Clinical signs The clinical signs of chronic MR are outlined in Table 6. With severe MR, the regurgitant murmur is usually short and stops at the same time as aortic valve closure. Occasionally, the murmur can hardly be heard due to early equalization of atrioventricular pressures. The signs and causes of MR are outlined in Table 3. Natural history In chronic MR, the increased preload and decreased afterload of the LV (caused by ejection of some of the stroke volume into the LA) are compensated for by LV and LA dilatation, and the total stroke volume is increased (the EF is also maintained). This compensated phase of chronic MR may last for years. Eventually, however, the volume overload causes sufficient dilatation to push the LV onto the downward portion of the Frank–Starling curve and dysfunction results (see Figure 7). Importantly, the loading conditions mean that this dysfunction might not be reflected in an abnormal EF (the EF in a patient with MR and
