Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


and dysfunction results (see Figure 7). Importantly, the loading conditions mean that this dysfunction might not be reflected in an abnormal EF (the EF in a patient with MR and normal LV function is >60%). Asymptomatic patients with mild MR and no evidence of LV dilatation or dysfunction can be followed on a yearly basis and undergo echo less frequently than that. Asymptomatic patients with moderate MR should have an echo annually. Asymptomatic patients with severe MR should be followed up every 159 emulov ekortS Chapter 9 6–12 months and undergo echo to detect silent LV dysfunction. Exercise testing is useful to document changes in exercise tolerance. The timing of surgery is determined by the EF, LV end systolic dimension (LVESD), the presence of AF, and symptoms. It is indicated for those with: • class II–IV symptoms, EF >60%, LVESD <45 mm • EF 30%–60%, LVESD 45–55 mm (regardless of symptoms) • asymptomatic patients with AF and normal EF • symptomatic patients with normal EF and pulmonary hypertension (>50 mm Hg) • asymptomatic patients with EF 50%–60% and LVESD <45 mm, or EF >60% and LVESD 45–55 mm • patients with EF <30% and/or LVESD >55 mm in whom the chordae tendineae are likely to be intact (ie, no previous MI in that territory) The operation of choice is MV repair. In many patients, however, replacement of the valve together with removal of part or all of the MV apparatus (chordae) is required. The repair procedure leads to better postoperative LV function and survival. There is no generally accepted medical therapy for chronic MR. Although vasodilators might seem a sensible choice, in fact, in compensated chronic MR the afterload is decreased (since the LV has two routes of ejection); as such, drugs that reduce the afterload further are unlikely to be beneficial. Chronic MR can also occur due to a primary ischemic cause, relating either to LV dysfunction or to chordal ischemia – revascularization or stenting can eliminate the episodes. Functional mitral regurgitation The normal function of the MV depends on the cusps, ring, and subvalvular apparatus, including papillary muscle fibers and the circumferential muscle layer supporting the mitral ring. Each of these components plays a significant role in maintaining the competence of the valve. With papillary muscle dysfunction due to ischemia or other causes of ventricular disease, cusp closure is not complete, leading to some degree of regurgitation. This
