Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


the competence of the valve. With papillary muscle dysfunction due to ischemia or other causes of ventricular disease, cusp closure is not complete, leading to some degree of regurgitation. This can even occur, for example, in athletic hypertrophy. This is usually mild, but can be significant in rare cases. In such conditions, the heart rate is usually fast and the duration of MR long enough to compromise filling time and hence cardiac output. Although functional in origin, it can be hemodynamically significant. 160 Valve disease ALFRED DE MUSSET “La bouche garde le silence, Pour écouter parler le coeur.”a Alfred de Musset (1810–1857), La Nuit de Mai The French romantic poet and playwright, Alfred de Musset (1810–1857), was famous for both his creative brain and his pathological heart. His most inspiring work was prompted by the ending of a love affair he had with George Sand (a French romantic writer who later had a 10-year relationship with Chopin). During a visit to Venice in 1834, both Sand and he became very unwell. Such was the quality of care and attention lavished on them by their physician that Sand fell in love with this man and de Musset returned to France alone (where he penned some of his best work). He spent the last 2 years of his life housebound, his heart broken by the combined effects of lost love, aortic regurgitation, and alcohol-related cardiomyopathy. The nodding of his head in time with his heartbeat, the classic eponymous sign of aortic regurgitation, was described by his brother in a biography. When told of it, deMusset apparently placed his thumb and forefinger on his neck and his head stopped bobbing. aThe mouth keeps silent to hear the heart speak. Mitral valve prolapse MV prolapse (MVP) is the single most common valvular abnormality. It affects 2%–6% of the population and is defined as a backward movement of one or both leaflets of the MV (usually the anterior) into the LA during (ventricular) systole. In most cases it is associated with trivial MR. However, as a result of its prevalence, it is also the most common single cause of significant MR. Although MVP does not alter life expectancy, all of the above complications of MR can occur. Sudden death, often reported as an association with MVP, is rare (<2% on long-term follow-up). Classic findings on auscultation are a mid systolic click followed by a late
