Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


can occur. Sudden death, often reported as an association with MVP, is rare (<2% on long-term follow-up). Classic findings on auscultation are a mid systolic click followed by a late systolic murmur. The click is thought to be caused by a tensing of the MV apparatus as the leaflets prolapse into the LA. The murmur is usually high pitched and loudest at the apex. Certain maneuvers can help to secure the diagnosis: standing reduces end diastolic volume (EDV), bringing the click–murmur nearer to the first heart sound; squatting increases EDV (and afterload), moving the click–murmur nearer to the second heart sound. Patients with these findings should be referred for echo assessment. Interestingly, there is no absolute consensus on criteria for diagnosing MVP on two-dimensional echo. The 161 Chapter 9 diagnosis should never be made on one view alone (especially if that is the 4-chamber view). Serial echos are not necessary unless there is a change in the clinical picture. Management involves reassurance and prophylaxis for endocarditis. Patients who suffer from palpitations should have Holter/event monitoring to make a firm diagnosis. Aspirin is recommended for patients with documented focal neurological events who are in sinus rhythm and have no atrial thrombus. Recurrent transient ischemic attacks or stroke in MVP patients demand long-term warfarin therapy. Ultimately, MV repair may be required, and the indications are as for MR (described above). Tricuspid valve disease In comparison with the left side, the right side of the heart is a low-pressure system. Consequently, disorders such as endocarditis, in which high-pressure jets help to “seed” the infective vegetations, occur less frequently. The notable exception is in intravenous drug abusers, where right-sided endocarditis is more common. Perhaps the most common cause of tricuspid valve incompetence, however, is elevated right ventricular (RV) pressure, secondary to pulmonary hypertension, MS, pulmonary stenosis, dilated cardiomyopathy, or RV failure. In addition, rheumatic heart disease can affect the tricuspid valve and tends to produce a combination of tricuspid stenosis and regurgitation – the overriding symptoms are those of regurgitation. Ebstein’s anomaly is a congenital disorder affecting the tricuspid valve (see Chapter 14, Adult congenital heart disease). Clinical signs Physical examination is key to the diagnosis of tricuspid regurgitation. Typical signs are: • gross fluid retention • significant peripheral edema • ascites that may result in nausea • raised JVP with a prominent systolic wave and sharp Y descent • parasternal heave and loud
