Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


fluid retention • significant peripheral edema • ascites that may result in nausea • raised JVP with a prominent systolic wave and sharp Y descent • parasternal heave and loud P2, suggesting pulmonary hypertension as a cause • an enlarged, tender, pulsatile liver and, occasionally, mild jaundice • a pansystolic murmur at the left lower sternal edge that is increased by inspiration Management Severe tricuspid regurgitation resulting from any cause is associated with a poor long-term outcome due to RV dysfunction and systemic venous congestion. The timing of surgery and the most suitable operation remain controversial, although chordal reconstruction and annuloplasty have become established in recent years. 162 Valve disease Annuloplasty involves the use of a prosthetic ring to support the endogenous dilated annulus. Valve replacement is also possible. Medical management treats fluid retention and AF. Standard protocols are used, although high doses and combination diuretics are often required. Pulmonary valve disease Pulmonary regurgitation is caused by pulmonary hypertension and annular dilatation resulting from various causes of left-sided heart disease (as well as primary pulmonary hypertension). An early diastolic murmur (Graham Steell murmur) is heard over the pulmonary area and should be distinguished from that of AR. Antibiotic prophylaxis is only required if the cause is rheumatic. Most pulmonary valve disease does not need treatment. However, valve replacement can be carried out in cases of intractable right heart failure. Valve disease in pregnancy In pregnancy, there is a 50% increase in circulating blood volume. The cardiac output peaks between the second and third trimesters, predominantly due to an increase in stroke volume, although the heart rate also increases by up to 20%. Total peripheral resistance falls disproportionately, reducing the diastolic blood pressure and widening the pulse pressure. Occasionally, in the supine position the inferior vena cava can be compressed by a gravid uterus, leading to an abrupt decrease in venous return. This can result in light headedness, but quickly resolves on changing position. The increased blood volume and cardiac output can accentuate stenotic murmurs, while the lowered peripheral resistance can actually reduce regurgitant murmurs. In general, echo demonstrates a degree of “physiological” chamber enlargement that, in a significant minority of women, may be associated with functional MR. In some conditions (eg, cyanotic heart disease, Eisenmenger syndrome, and severe pulmonary hypertension), the changes resulting from pregnancy greatly increase risk and most cardiologists would counsel against pregnancy. The following are also associated
