Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


(eg, cyanotic heart disease, Eisenmenger syndrome, and severe pulmonary hypertension), the changes resulting from pregnancy greatly increase risk and most cardiologists would counsel against pregnancy. The following are also associated with increased risk, either to the mother or fetus: • severe AS • MR/AR with class III–IV symptoms • MS with class II–IV symptoms • pulmonary pressures >75% of systemic • EF <40% • mechanical prosthetic valves requiring anticoagulation • AR in Marfan’s syndrome 163 Chapter 9 Although risk is increased, many patients with valvular abnormalities can be managed through pregnancy with conservative medical measures aimed at optimizing intravascular volume. Mitral stenosis Penicillin prophylaxis should be continued in pregnant women with MS. The cautious use of diuretics and b-blockers in those with mild to moderate disease can prevent tachycardia and optimize diastolic filling. For women with severe disease, a percutaneous balloon valvotomy prior to conception should be considered. Those who develop class III–IV symptoms during pregnancy should also undergo valvotomy. This can be achieved with very limited fluoroscopy or appropriate shielding. Mitral regurgitation The usual cause of MR is MVP; this rarely requires treatment. Aortic stenosis The most likely cause of AS in a woman of childbearing age is congenital bicuspid disease. Mild to moderate obstruction can be managed conservatively throughout pregnancy, whereas those with severe disease (eg, gradient >50 mm Hg, LV function likely to be normal) should be advised to delay conception until treatment is obtained. Aortic regurgitation AR can usually be managed medically with a combination of diuretics and vasodilator therapy. As with MR, surgery should be contemplated during pregnancy for the control of class III–IV symptoms. Anticoagulation in pregnancy Warfarin crosses the placenta and has been associated with an increased incidence of spontaneous abortion, fetal deformity, prematurity, and stillbirth. The incidence is probably around 5%–10%. In contrast, heparin does not cross the placenta and is generally safer. However, it is associated with a higher degree of thromboembolic complications. The evidence base for decision making is not good, and the decision should be made in partnership with the patient after explaining the risks involved. Most change from warfarin to heparin at week 36 in anticipation of labor. 164 Valve disease Further reading Guidelines for the management of patients with valvular heart disease. Executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Committee on Management of Patients with Valvular Heart
