Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


patients with valvular heart disease. Executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Committee on Management of Patients with Valvular Heart Disease). Circulation1998;98:1949–84. Phoon CK. Estimation of pressure gradients by auscultations: an innovative and accurate physical examination technique. Am Heart J2001;141:500–6. Shry EA, Smithers MA, Mascette AM. Auscultation versus echocardiography in a healthy population with precordial murmur. Am J Cardiol2001;87:1428–30. 165 166 Chapter 10 Infective endocarditis Background Endocarditis was first described by William Osler in 1885. It is an inflammatory process that affects the endocardium and may have an infective or noninfective (eg, systemic lupus erythematosus) origin. It is uncommon in the western world (22cases per million), but more prevalent in developing countries. Diagnosis Symptoms Endocarditis is rarely an obvious diagnosis for a generalist. It may present with a wide variety of clinical signs, some subtle; the diagnosis may be difficult or the signs misleading, and there is a wide differential diagnosis to consider. However, there is a wealth of clinical signs to look for. Constitutional symptoms Endocarditis should be considered in patients with vague or generalized constitutional symptoms such as fever, rigors, night sweats, anorexia, weight loss, or arthralgia. Cardiac signs The presence of a new murmur is very significant, as is a change in the nature of an existing murmur (a regurgitant murmur may disappear on worsening). Myocardial involvement or valvular dysfunction may both contribute to left ventricular failure. Skin lesions Endocarditis is indicated by: • Osler’s nodes – tender lesions found on finger pulps and thenar/hypothenar eminences (see Figure 1) • Janeway lesions – transient, nontender macular papules on palms or soles • splinter hemorrhages • petechiae (embolic or vasculitic) • clubbing – in long-standing disease 167 Chapter 10 Figure 1.Osler’s nodes on a finger and foot. Eyes Roth spots (boat-shaped hemorrhages with pale centers, in retina) and conjunctival splinter hemorrhages may be found. Splenomegaly Splenic infarction may occur as a result of emboli. In this case, splenic palpation may be painful and tender, and a rub may be heard. Neurological An acute confusional state is common in patients with infective endocarditis (IE). Cerebral emboli, which usually affect the middle cerebral artery, result in hemiplegia and sensory dysfunction. Mycotic aneurysms also affect the middle cerebral artery, where rupture may cause a subarachnoid hematoma. Mycotic aneurysms can occur several years after endocarditis has been treated. Renal Infarction causes loin
