Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


each). The involvement of multiple valves is common. Pulmonary valve endocarditis is rare. Etiology IE has a large number of causative organisms. Streptococci These account for 50%–80% of IE cases. Streptococcus viridans (eg, S. anguis, S. milleri, S. mutans, S. mitior) make up the normal bacterial flora of the pharynx and upper respiratory tract. Tonsillectomy, dental extraction, and dental cleaning can result in bacteremia and lead to infection. 169 Chapter 10 The Duke criteria for the diagnosis of IE Major criteria 1. Positive blood culture for IE A. Typical micro-organism consistent with IE from two separate blood cultures, as noted below: • viridans streptococci, Streptococcus bovisa, or HACEK group; or • community-acquired Staphylococcus aureusor enterococci, in the absence of a primary focus; or B. Micro-organisms consistent with IE from persistently positive blood cultures defined as: • two or more positive cultures of blood samples drawn >12 hours apart • all of three or a majority of four or more separate cultures of blood (with first and last sample drawn ≥1 hour apart) 2. Evidence of endocardial involvement A. Positive echocardiogram for IE defined as: • oscillating intracardiac mass on valve or supporting structures, in the path of regurgitant jets, or on implanted material in the absence of an alternative anatomic explanation; or • abscess; or • new partial dehiscence of prosthetic valve; or B. New valvular regurgitation (worsening or changing of pre-existing murmur not sufficient) Minor criteria 1. Predisposition: predisposing heart condition or intravenous drug use 2. Fever: temperature ≥38.0ºC 3. Vascular phenomena: major arterial emboli, septic pulmonary infarcts, mycotic aneurysm, intracranial hemorrhage, conjunctival hemorrhages, and Janeway lesions 4. Immunologic phenomena: glomerulonephritis, Osler’s nodes, Roth spots, and rheumatoid factor 5. Microbiological evidence: positive blood culture, but does not meet a major criterion as noted abovebor serological evidence of active infection with an organism consistent with IE 6. Echocardiography findings: consistent with IE, but do not meet a major criterion as noted above Table 1.Definitions of terms used in the Duke criteria for the diagnosis of infective endocarditis (IE). HACEK: Haemophilus parainfluenza, Haemophilus aphrophilus, Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) actinomycetemcomitans, Cardiobacterium hominis, Eikenella species,and Kingella species. aIncludes nutritionally variant strains (Abiotrophiaspecies); bexcludes single positive cultures for coagulase-negative staphylococci and organisms that do not cause endocarditis. Reproduced with permission from Excerpta Medica (Durack DT, Lukes AS, Bright DK. New criteria for diagnosis of infective endocarditis: utilization of specific echocardiographic findings. Duke Endocarditis Service. Am J
