Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


medical therapy (5-fluorouracil and amphotericin B, respectively), but, generally, all three of these infections respond poorly to medical therapy alone and require surgical intervention. In the treatment of IE, from any source, fever may still be present 2 weeks after starting the appropriate treatment, even with drug-sensitive organisms. This could be due to the presence of an underlying large vegetation or abscess. If fever persists, the sensitivity of the infecting organism should be checked and drug levels monitored. Repeat echo should be performed to exclude increasing vegetation size or abscess formation. If, despite these measures, the fever remains, the possibility of antibiotic resistance should be considered and a further synergistic antimicrobial treatment may be required. A second site for fever should always be excluded. Surgical intervention Surgical intervention may be required in patients with persistent fever that is resistant to medical therapy. Surgery is also indicated in the following conditions: 175 Chapter 10 • valve obstruction • prosthetic-valve endocarditis caused by S.aureusor resistant organisms • aortic or mitral regurgitation not responding to medical therapy • paravalvular abscess • development of an aneurysm of a sinus of Valsalva • fungal endocarditis • multiple embolic episodes • progressive heart failure secondary to severe valve destruction • oscillating vegetation of >1 cm Surgery may involve not only valve replacement, but also aortic root replacement for aortic root abscesses. After the relevant surgical procedure, a full course of antibiotic eradication therapy should be administered. Prognosis With effective treatment, patients with IE have a 70% survival rate. The prognosis is worse if there is no identifiable organism or if there is a resistant organism. Fungal infections are associated with increased mortality, as is prosthetic valve endocarditis. Overall death rates are 20% for native valve endocarditis, 30% for staphylococcal infections, and 20%–30% for late prosthetic valve infection, despite full medical and surgical treatment. The most common cause of death is intractable heart failure. Prophylaxis All patients at risk for IE should receive antibiotic cover for invasive procedures (see Tables 2 and 3, overleaf). Spontaneous bacteremia is also common as a result of poor dental hygiene, and susceptible patients need to be made aware of this. 176 Infective endocarditis Situation Agenta Regimen Standard general Amoxicillin Adults: 2g; children: 50mg/kg prophylaxis orally 1 hour before procedure Unable to take Ampicillin Adults: 2g IM or IV; children: oral medication 50mg/kg IM or IV within 30minutes before procedure Allergic to
