Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


vancomycin or gentamicin is recommended. Reproduced with permission from Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (Dajani AS, Taubert KA, Wilson W et al. Prevention of Bacterial Endocarditis: Recommendations by the American Heart Association. Circulation1997;96:358–66). 178 Infective endocarditis Further reading Bayer AS, Bolger AF, Taubert KA et al. Diagnosis and management of IE and its complications. AHA Scientific Statement. Circulation 1998;98:2936–48. Dajani AS, Taubert KA, Wilson W et al. Prevention of Bacterial Endocarditis: Recommendations by the American Heart Association. Circulation1997;96:358–66. Golden RL. William Osler at 150. JAMA1999;282:2252–8. 179 180 Chapter 11 Cardiomyopathy Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy With a prevalence of only 0.2%, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is rarely encountered by generalists. Most cases are identified by screening family members of known sufferers – 50% of cases are familial. Background HCM is a primary, usually familial disorder of cardiac muscle with complex pathophysiology, significant heterogeneity in its expression, and a diverse clinical course. It is defined as cardiac hypertrophy that cannot be explained by pressure or volume overload, and is probably the most common genetically transmitted heart disease. The clinical course is highly variable; some patients remain asymptomatic throughout life, whereas others die prematurely – either suddenly or from progressive heart failure. HCM is characterized by mutations in the DNA encoding cardiac contractile or energy-related proteins, predominantly the b-myosin heavy chain, a-tropomyosin, and cardiac troponin T (see Figure1 and Table 1). Despite dramatic improvements in the knowledge and understanding of HCM, challenges and controversies still exist regarding its diagnosis, etiology, natural history, and management. For example, many HCM patients do not, in fact, have left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). The shifting understanding of this complex disease can make terminology difficult. However, “hypertrophic cardiomyopathy” is the preferred expression for this condition. This nomenclature avoids the term “idiopathic subaortic stenosis” or inclusion of the word “obstructive”, which imply left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (present in only 25% of cases). It also excludes secondary causes of LVH. The classic features of HCM are asymmetrical LVH with a normal or small left ventricular cavity. However, wall thickness varies considerably. The majority of clearly identified patients have an unmistakably abnormal left ventricular mass. This averages at a septal thickness of 20–22 mm, but can be up to 60 mm (see Figure2). This leaves a significant minority of patients in whom there will be diagnostic ambiguity with respect to cardiac morphology. In fact, the hallmark of the disease is 181 Chapter 11 α-Tropomyosin Troponin
