Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


a significant minority of patients in whom there will be diagnostic ambiguity with respect to cardiac morphology. In fact, the hallmark of the disease is 181 Chapter 11 α-Tropomyosin Troponin T Troponin I Troponin C Myo psi rn o- tb ei in nding Myosin light chain Myosin Myosin heavy head chain Figure 1.Contractile proteins in the cardiac sarcomere. The top chain represents actin; the bottom chain represents myosin. Contraction occurs when calcium binds the troponin complex, allowing myosin to bind to actin with the production of force: “Myosin rows the actin sea”. Reproduced with permission from Massachusetts Medical Society (Spirito P, Seidman CE, McKenna WJ et al. The management of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. N Engl J Med1997;336:775–85). Protein Percentage Beta-myosin heavy chain 35 Myosin-binding protein C 15 Troponin T 15 Alpha-tropomyosin 1 Myosin light chain 1 Table 1.Mutations known to cause hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. myocardial fiber disarray. Clearly, this cannot be a useful diagnostic marker during life, and increasing attention is being given to molecular genetic diagnostic tools. Regardless of the electrocardiogram (ECG) presentation, the prognosis for HCM patients can be unpredictable. Some with severe hypertrophy remain asymptomatic, while others with apparently less severe hypertrophy develop arrhythmias, increased ventricular stiffness, heart failure, or sudden death. Indeed, there can be considerable variation in phenotype within families (see Figure 2). 182 Cardiomyopathy This much variation can exist in one family N HCM LVmass Figure 2.Left ventricular (LV) mass in a normal (N) individual and in a patient with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). Clinical examination HCM has classic clinical signs, most of which relate to outflow obstruction (hence their presence is not required for diagnosis). They are as follows: • jerky pulse • prominent “a” wave in jugular venous pressure (JVP) • double apex beat • S3 • S4 • late ejection quality systolic murmur over the aortic area that is increased by standing and decreased by squatting • a pansystolic murmur at the apex (indicating mitral regurgitation [MR]) The ECG may show LVH and T-wave inversion. With progressive left ventricular disease, left bundle branch block (LBBB) may appear. Echo is the test of choice. Left ventricular wall thickness is measured from M-mode traces (see Chapter 4, Understanding the echocardiogram). Left ventricular outflow tract velocities can be measured and pressure drop estimated by continuous-wave Doppler. Diastolic dysfunction is common in HCM. Specialist management Medical The main aim of medical treatment is to limit the effects of
