Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


be measured and pressure drop estimated by continuous-wave Doppler. Diastolic dysfunction is common in HCM. Specialist management Medical The main aim of medical treatment is to limit the effects of outflow tract obstruction. Beta-blockers and/or rate limiting calcium-channel blockers, such as verapamil, can improve diastolic filling (by reducing heart rate), reduce exercise- related outflow obstruction, and reduce the possibility of arrhythmia. Amiodarone 183 Chapter 11 and sotalol can prevent supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmia, but should only be used in patients with a previous episode. Dual-chamber pacing Patients who remain symptomatic despite drug therapy can have a DDD pacemaker inserted (see Chapter 8, Arrhythmia), set to a short atrioventricular (AV) delay. The effect of this is to pace the right ventricle each beat and induce an LBBB- type activation of the left ventricle, which reduces outflow obstruction by desynchronizing contraction of the septum and the posterior wall. Patients can be treadmill-tested to confirm that the AV delay is sufficiently short to maintain right ventricle capture at higher heart rates. Nonsurgical septal reduction A recent technique involving cardiac catheterization has been proposed as an alternative for outflow tract pressure gradient reduction and symptom improvement. This technique came to light following observations, in the early eighties, that upon balloon inflation in the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery there is a reduction of outflow tract velocities and gradients. The procedure involves balloon inflation in the proximal segment of the first septal perforator of the LAD and assessment of outflow tract gradient. If the gradient drops significantly, a small quantity of alcohol (3–5 mL) is injected down the cannulated artery, distal to the balloon, in an attempt to induce a localized proximal septal infarction. The velocities are then measured. The stress-induced outflow tract gradient after dobutamine injection is also assessed, both before and after the procedure. If the results are not satisfactory, these steps are repeated while cannulating the second perforator of the LAD. Procedural success is always associated with significant myocardial enzyme rise and a fall in outflow tract velocities, development of significant conduction disturbance, and septal incoordinate relaxation. Mid- and long-term follow-up after nonsurgical septal reduction have proved promising in terms of a decrease in symptoms and maintained low outflow tract gradient. Surgery Until the last decade, the major nonmedical option for treating HCM with persistent symptoms was surgical myotomy/myectomy. In this procedure, which is also called the “Morrow procedure”, a small
