Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


Surgery Until the last decade, the major nonmedical option for treating HCM with persistent symptoms was surgical myotomy/myectomy. In this procedure, which is also called the “Morrow procedure”, a small portion of the proximal septal myocardium is resected to widen the outflow tract. Mortality from this technique is now <2% and there is a subjective symptomatic improvement in 70% of patients. However, complications are common and for the majority of patients it results in complete LBBB or they require a permanent pacemaker for complete heart block. As a consequence, surgeons have explored other possibilities, such as 184 Cardiomyopathy History Examination Family history of premature death Auscultate the heart, both lying and Family history of heart disease at age standing, with particular attention <50 years to outflow murmurs Personal history of murmur, Assess radiofemoral delay to exclude hypertension, excessive fatigability, coarctation or syncope Recognize the stigmata Personal history of excessive or of Marfan’s syndrome progressive shortness of breath Measure systemic blood pressure or pain on exertion Table 2.Key points in history and examination for preparticipation screening in athletes. mitral valve replacement and anterior leaflet extension, to reduce MR, reduce outflow obstruction, and stiffen the anterior leaflet. Preparticipation screening for sport HCM is occasionally discovered during preparticipation screening for sport, and should be considered when a young athlete presents with voltage criteria LVH. In this situation, the question as to when to refer for echocardiography arises.The most common voltage criterion is that of Sokolow–Lyon (SV1 + RV5 >3.5 mV) (see Chapter 3, Conquering the ECG). Although the vast majority of young athletes in this category will have a normal heart, most cardiologists would recommend that any young, normotensive patient who meets these voltage criteria should be referred for an echo. The ECG and echo are the key diagnostic tools. However, the overall prevalence of relevant conditions (0.2%) makes these cost-ineffective. Approximately 200 screenings are required to detect one abnormality, while 200,000 are needed to prevent one death. Thus, it is important to maximize the information available from history and examination (see Table 2). There is consensus that history and physical examination are the only cost-effective screening tools for sudden cardiac death in athletes. However, these are very poor at identifying the primary causes of sudden death: • HCM in its nonobstructive form (~35%) produces no murmur (see Figure 3) • coronary artery abnormalities (~20%) are not detectable by simple clinical examination 185
