Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


causes of sudden death: • HCM in its nonobstructive form (~35%) produces no murmur (see Figure 3) • coronary artery abnormalities (~20%) are not detectable by simple clinical examination 185 Chapter 11 Figure 3.Hypertrophic nonobstructive cardiomyopathy. Note the grossly hypertrophied interventricular septum. ECG patterns are distinctly abnormal (LVH, inverted T waves, deep Q waves, axis deviation, or LBBB) in about 15% of athletes, and mildly abnormal (borderline LVH, flat T wave, long PR interval, right bundle branch block) in another 25%. Early repolarization may account for another 15%. Bradycardia <60 bpm is found in more than a third. Abnormalities are most common in males younger than 20 years who are involved in endurance sports such as cycling, rowing, and cross-country skiing. In one series, 5% of over 1,000 consecutively examined athletes had structural abnormalities such as HCM or dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Dilated cardiomyopathy DCM is a primary disease of the cardiac muscle and can be defined as left or right ventricular dilatation and failure in the absence of coronary artery disease, hypertension, valve disease, or congenital heart abnormality. Patients usually present with shortness of breath and signs of congestion in an identical way to heart failure of any other cause. There are many causes of DCM: • alcohol • familial • myocarditis • postradiation or chemotherapy (eg, adriamycin/doxorubicin) • hemochromatosis • thyrotoxicosis • thiamine deficiency 186 Cardiomyopathy Prognosis The prognosis is variable according to the degree of ventricular damage. It is generally agreed that patients with resistant high filling pressures do badly. Those with biventricular dilatation and impairment of function do even worse. Investigations The ECG shows no specific signs: it may be normal or show conduction disturbances. Chest x-ray shows increased cardiothoracic ratio and pulmonary vascular congestion. Echo is the test of choice and will show a grossly dilated ventricle with thin walls and globally impaired systolic function. Disease progression results in functional MR and the development of left atrial dilatation. In rare cases, the disease solely affects the right heart. Cardiac catheterization is used to exclude coronary artery disease and measure intracardiac pressures. Management Management is as described for chronic heart failure (see Chapter 7, Heart failure). Restrictive cardiomyopathy Restrictive cardiomyopathy is a disease of the heart muscle that results in myocardial stiffness and an incompliant ventricle. Patients present with predominantly right-sided failure (gross peripheral edema, raised JVP, hepatomegaly) and a normal-sized heart. Classic clinical signs are rapid
