Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


that results in myocardial stiffness and an incompliant ventricle. Patients present with predominantly right-sided failure (gross peripheral edema, raised JVP, hepatomegaly) and a normal-sized heart. Classic clinical signs are rapid x and y descent of the JVP, and loud S3 and S4. The most common causes are: • hemochromatosis • sarcoidosis • amyloidosis • carcinoid syndrome • glycogen storage disease • scleroderma • endomyocardial fibrosis and eosinophilic heart disease Investigations The ECG can be a useful tool, as subendocardial fibrosis can result in conduction disturbances. In addition, amyloid heart disease presents with low voltages. However, echo enables diagnosis. Classic findings include: 187 Chapter 11 • absence of ventricular dilatation or hypertrophy (common but not invariable) • left ventricle and right ventricle systolic function are often normal • there may be biatrial dilatation • the myocardium may be speckled or echogenic • the Doppler ventricular in-flow pattern exhibits a high E:A ratio (see Chapter 4, Understanding the echocardiogram) The key differential diagnosis is constrictive pericarditis. This is an important distinction to make as constrictive pericarditis can be treated surgically. Management There is no specific medical treatment for restrictive cardiomyopathy. The main aim is to control symptoms of cardiac failure. In patients with high filling pressures, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in particular have shown a significant beneficial effect in unloading the left ventricle and improving symptoms. Atrial fibrillation should be controlled with digoxin and a prophylactic anticoagulant is usually recommended. Eosinophilic cardiomyopathy can be treated with steroids, cytotoxic drugs, and prophylactic anticoagulants for thromboembolism. Endomyocardial fibrosis that is not controlled by medical therapy may warrant surgical intervention for subendocardial decortication. Carcinoid syndrome may require tricuspid valve replacement (see Chapter 9, Valve disease). Further reading Maron BJ, Moller JH, Seidman C et al. Impact of laboratory molecular diagnosis on contemporary diagnostic criteria for genetically transmitted cardiovascular disease: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, long-QT syndrome, and Marfan Syndrome. Circulation 1998;98:1460–71. Pelliccia A, Maron BJ, Culasso F et al. Clinical significance of abnormal electrocardiographic patterns in trained athletes. Circulation2000;102:278–84. Prior SG, Aliot E, Blomstrom-Lundqvist C et al. Task force on sudden cardiac death of the European Society of Cardiology. Eur Heart J2001;22:1374–450. 188 Chapter 12 Aneurysm and dissection of the aorta Aortic aneurysm Aneurysms of the thoracic aorta (see Figure 1) are not as common as those affecting the abdominal portion, but carry a higher risk of rupture. Both share the same primary cause: atherosclerosis. In the past, ascending
