Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


hands has shown that they were muscular and powerful, and not the slender hands of someone with Marfan’s syndrome. Although the fun of the mystery is often in the debate and not in the answer, this is one theory that could be tested: a limited amount of bone fragments and hair from Lincoln was retained by the attending physician at the time of his assassination. Molecular testing using these samples could end the debate in an instant. 190 Aneurysm and dissection of the aorta Arterial lumen Endothelial cells Intima Internal elastic lamina Media (smooth muscle cells) External elastic lamina Adventitia (fibroblasts, elastin, collagen) Figure 2. The adventitia, media, and intima of the aortic wall. • an armspan greater than height • upward lens dislocation • aortic root dilatation and aortic incompetence • mitral valve prolapse The key differential diagnosis is homocystinuria, a recessively inherited defect in amino-acid metabolism, which has similar skeletal features. Homocystinuria is associated with low IQ and typically causes downward dislocation of the lens. However, it does not affect the heart. Marfan’s patients should undergo annual echo screening of the aortic root and prophylactic replacement should be considered when the diameter reaches 55 mm (a normal diameter is 40 mm). Beta-blockade can retard the rate of dilatation, but patients who do not have the replacement die in the fourth or fifth decade from aortic dissection or cardiac failure secondary to aortic regurgitation. Sinus of Valsalva A congenital aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva is a rare cause of arteriovenous shunt. It is formed because of a weak connection between the aortic valve and the aortic fibrous ring. This enlarges during childhood and usually ruptures in adulthood into the right ventricle, creating a volume shunt from the left to the right side of the heart. The diagnosis is confirmed by aortography. Without surgical repair, biventricular failure results. Aortic dissection Dissection, which is usually caused by atherosclerosis, is the development of a tear in the aortic intima that creates a false lumen through the aortic media for a variable distance (see Figures 2 and3). 191 Chapter 12 Type A Type B Figure 3. Classification of dissection. Figure 4.Computed tomography scans showing dissection of the aorta. I S T AA AA F P T T I F F Figure 5.Magnetic resonance images showing separation of the dissected membrane. AA: ascending aorta; F: false lumen; I: intimal flap; P: pulmonary artery;
