Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


AA F P T T I F F Figure 5.Magnetic resonance images showing separation of the dissected membrane. AA: ascending aorta; F: false lumen; I: intimal flap; P: pulmonary artery; S: subclavian artery; T: true lumen. 192 Aneurysm and dissection of the aorta b T T I F F I LA I AV T F T F Figure 6.Transesophageal echocardiograms showing separation of the dissecting membrane. AV: aortic valve; F: false lumen; I: intimal flap; LA: left atrium; T: true lumen. Dissection is classified according to whether it includes the ascending aorta (typeA) or not (type B) (see Figure 3). Type A dissection is a surgical emergency because of the high risk of proximal extension, rupture, and sudden death. If a type A dissection is confirmed by CT or MRI, the patient should be operated on immediately. The highly specialized repair operation can involve replacement of the aortic root with a vascular graft, reimplantation of the coronary arteries, and resuspension of the aortic valve. In some cases it may be necesssary to replace the valve. In contrast, type B dissection is managed medically by aggressive antihypertensive treatment. In the acute situation, the systolic BP should be lowered to <110mmHg using intravenous (IV) b-blockade (eg, labetalol). Beta-blockade, as well as reducing the BP, reduces the BP’s rate of rise and for this reason it is preferred to sodium nitroprusside as the first-line IV agent. If b-blockers are contraindicated then rate-limiting calcium-channel blockers, such as diltiazem or verapamil, can be used. 193 Chapter 12 (a) (b) Figure 7.(a,b) Chest x-rays. A dissected aorta can be seen in (b) (arrow). Figure 8.Chest x-ray showing extreme dissection of the aorta (arrows). Dissection typically presents with a severe tearing central chest pain that radiates to the back. A patient with such a history should be referred urgently to a specialist center since the ascending aorta might be involved. Immediate investigations include: • CT or MRI scan (see Figures 4 and5, previous page) • transesophageal echo to assess possible aortic regurgitation (see Figure 6,previous page) • transthoracic echo for pericardial effusion • preoperatively, coronary artery disease must be ruled out by coronary angiography 194 Aneurysm and dissection of the aorta A physical examination can prove useful diagnostically, but should not delay the above emergency investigations. It should include: • measurement of the BP in both arms (unequal BP is a sign, though not a reliable sign)
