Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


diagnostically, but should not delay the above emergency investigations. It should include: • measurement of the BP in both arms (unequal BP is a sign, though not a reliable sign) • documentation of all peripheral pulses (lack of peripheral pulses may be the only sign if the dissection spares the ascending aorta) • close attention to heart sounds (aortic regurgitation and tamponade are possible with proximal extension) • neurologic examination (hemiplegia or paraplegia can result from occlusion of the carotid arteries and anterior spinal arteries, respectively) Other potentially useful investigations are: • assessment of renal function, including urine microscopy and catheterization for accurate measurement of renal output • a chest x-ray, which often shows a distended aorta or generalized widening of the mediastinum (see Figures 7 and8) Further reading Erbel R, Alfonso F, Boileau C et al.; Task Force on Aortic Dissection, European Society of Cardiology. Diagnosis and management of aortic dissection. Eur Heart J2001;22:1642–81. Khan IA, Nair CK. Clinical, diagnostic, and management perspectives of aortic dissection. Chest2002;122:311–28. 195 196 Chapter 13 Pericardial disease Pericarditis A diagnosis of pericarditis (inflammation of the pericardium), though rare, should always be considered as a differential for ischemic heart pain. The key differentiating features are that the pain in pericarditis is altered by posture and can be exacerbated by deep inspiration. Classically, the patient will be found sitting forward and taking shallow breaths. Pathophysiology The pericardium has two layers: visceral and parietal. The visceral layer is closely apposed to the heart, whilst the fibrous parietal layer provides a more rigid outer shell to the pericardial cavity (see Figure 1). The normal volume of pericardial fluid is in the region of 50 mL. Pericardial cavity Fibrous layer Myocardium Parietal pericardium Endocardium Visceral pericardium Figure 1. The layers of pericardium. The visceral pericardium is a tissue paper-like layer, while the parietal pericardium is more rigid. 197 Chapter 13 Causes of pericarditis Postmyocardial infarction/postcardiac surgery Viral (Coxsackie B, influenza) Metastatic malignancy Uremia Tuberculous Systemic lupus erythematosus Table 1.Causes of pericarditis. The causes of pericarditis are outlined in Table 1. Viral pericarditis is the most common type, but in many cases either the diagnosis is never made or the viral infection is never identified. Another common presentation is characteristic pain 3–14 days postmyocardial infarction (MI) or postcardiac surgery, which tends to be self-limiting. Relapsing episodes are referred to as Dressler’s syndrome or postcardiotomy syndrome, and are thought to
