Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


characteristic pain 3–14 days postmyocardial infarction (MI) or postcardiac surgery, which tends to be self-limiting. Relapsing episodes are referred to as Dressler’s syndrome or postcardiotomy syndrome, and are thought to represent an autoimmune process. Investigations Examination Auscultation may reveal a pericardial rub, which is sufficient, but not necessary, to make the diagnosis. It can easily be distinguished from a pleural rub by asking the patient to hold their breath. Electrocardiography The classic sign of pericarditis – a concave upwards (“saddle”) ST-segment elevation throughout the 12 leads – is, of course, rare. However, some form of electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormality is common. These changes are either present in all 12 leads or in leads that do not correspond to the territory perfused by a single coronary artery. Low voltages suggest the possibility of effusion. Chest x-ray A chest x-ray (CXR) can help to rule out a tuberculous cause of pericarditis and exclude significant effusion. Echocardiography Echocardiography is helpful mainly if there is a suspicion of effusion or tamponade. Blood tests Blood tests for immune markers, such as the antinuclear cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA), should be carried out in any patient with confirmed pericarditis. Acute and convalescent viral titers can also be requested, but rarely alter management. 198 Pericardial disease Figure 2.An extreme form of pericardial effusion, known as a “swinging heart”. The arrow indicates the effusion. Management Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are the treatment of choice for pericarditis. They relieve both the inflammatory process and the pain. Steroids may be required in serositic pericarditis, whereas pericarditis with a suspicious CXR and constitutional symptoms should prompt investigation for tuberculosis. Pericardial effusion and tamponade As with pleural effusion, the key defining presentation of pericardial effusion is the rate of fluid accumulation. Any cause of pericarditis can result in a significant accumulation of serous fluid, while hemopericardium (a collection of blood in the pericardial sac surrounding the heart) can be caused by trauma, type 1 dissection of the aorta, and cardiac rupture. The key feature is not the overall volume of fluid (even hundreds of milliliters can be asymptomatic if accumulated over a long enough time), but the rate of rise – as with pleural effusion, removal of even a small amount of fluid can result in significant benefit. Small, asymptomatic effusions can often be left to resorb on their own. This usually requires repeat echo at regular intervals to ensure that resorption has occurred. Larger effusions
