Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


significant benefit. Small, asymptomatic effusions can often be left to resorb on their own. This usually requires repeat echo at regular intervals to ensure that resorption has occurred. Larger effusions bounded by the tough parietal pericardium can compromise the low pressure right heart – this results in tamponade (see Figure 2). Examination Cardiac tamponade is a medical emergency. It is associated with a characteristic jugular venous pressure (JVP). Kussmaul’s sign describes a raised JVP that rises further on inspiration, while Friedrich’s sign describes a steep x/y descent (although, in reality at the bedside, the waves are hard to discern). The heart sounds are quiet and there may be a rub. 199 Chapter 13 KUSSMAUL’S LEGACY Adolph Kussmaul was Professor of Medicine successively at Heidelberg, Erlangen, Freiburg, and Strasbourg. As well as describing the paradoxical increase in JVP on inspiration in patients with restrictive cardiomyopathy, right ventricular failure, and constrictive pericarditis, he described the deep-sighing respiration associated with low arterial pH (Kussmaul breathing) and coined the term “polyarteritis nodosa”. In fact, Kussmaul’s JVP sign is widely misunderstood to be solely the result of right ventricular incompliance, when in fact the explanation relates as much to distension of the mesenteric vascular bed and the change from a right ventricular pressure that predominantly reflects negative intrapleural pressure “sucking” blood into the chest, to one that predominantly reflects positive intra- abdominal pressure “pushing” the greater volume proximally. A characteristic of cardiac tamponade is pulsus paradoxus, which is not paradoxical at all, but an exaggeration of the normal drop in systolic pressure on inspiration – >10 mm Hg is abnormal. To test for it, inflate the cuff to just above systolic pressure then slowly deflate, stopping each 5 mm Hg for a full inspiration–expiration cycle. Listen for the point at which the beating becomes continuous throughout the breathing cycle. Electrocardiography Low-voltage ECG and beat-to-beat variation in R-wave amplitude are characteristic. Chest x-ray CXRs show a globular, “boot-shaped” heart. Echocardiography Echo is the investigation of choice. The key observation is diastolic collapse of the right atrium and ventricle. It demands urgent pericardiocentesis. Constrictive pericarditis In constrictive pericarditis, the pericardium becomes rigid and fibrotic, adheres to the myocardium, and limits its function. It most commonly follows tuberculous pericarditis or hemopericardium, but can result from any cause of pericarditis. 200 Pericardial disease The classic clinical picture is: • significant ascites • raised JVP with positive Kussmaul and Friedrich’s
