Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


pericarditis or hemopericardium, but can result from any cause of pericarditis. 200 Pericardial disease The classic clinical picture is: • significant ascites • raised JVP with positive Kussmaul and Friedrich’s signs • hepatomegaly • pulsus paradoxus (but usually less severe than in tamponade) • pericardial knock (high-pitched early diastolic added sound) • calcification visible on the lateral CXR The most difficult differential diagnosis is restrictive cardiomyopathy. However, the left ventricular function is usually preserved in constrictive pericarditis, and filling pressures are raised. The only treatment for constrictive pericarditis is surgical excision of the pericardium. 201 202 Chapter 14 Adult congenital heart disease Congenital abnormalities of the heart and cardiovascular system are reported in almost 1% of live births (see Figure 1) and about half of these children need medical or surgical help during infancy. In the first decade, a further 25% require surgery to maintain or improve their life. Only 10% survive to adolescence without surgery. Of these 10%, however, many live a normal life for years before their abnormality is discovered. Recognizing adult congenital heart disease There are a few signs that should alert generalists to the possibility of congenital heart disease: • murmurs, especially continuous – there are few degenerative diseases that produce continuous murmurs • cyanosis, clubbing – unless there is coexistent lung disease, a patient with a murmur and cyanosis should be referred for echocardiography • right bundle branch block (RBBB) – this occurs in 1% of the middle-aged population without disease. When combined with a murmur, the patient should be referred for echocardiography In most cases, suspicion of congenital heart disease leads to a cardiology referral. However, an awareness of the possible diagnoses will help your referral. Ventricular septal defect Ventricular septal defect (VSD) (see Figures 2 and 3) is the most common congenital heart defect. Symptoms depend on the size of the defect and the age of the patient. Small VSDs are usually asymptomatic and compatible with a normal life (in fact, about 40% close spontaneously in early childhood). Large VSDs cause cardiac failure in the second or third month after birth. If a large shunt does not produce symptoms during infancy, there is usually little disturbance until late adolescence or early adult life when the patient develops high pulmonary vascular resistance, breathlessness, fatigue, and cyanosis. There is progression to effort syncope, recurrent hemoptysis, and heart failure. 203 Chapter 14 35 30 25 20
