Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


when the patient develops high pulmonary vascular resistance, breathlessness, fatigue, and cyanosis. There is progression to effort syncope, recurrent hemoptysis, and heart failure. 203 Chapter 14 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 VSD PDA Pulm so tn ea nr oy sis ASD Coarctation aBi orc tiu cs p vi ad lve F ta el tl ro at l’s ogy TGA Figure 1. The relative incidence of common congenital heart defects. ASD: atrial septal defect; PDA: patent ductus arteriosus; TGA: transposition of the great arteries; VSD: ventricular septal defect. Recognizing VSD In VSD patients, the apex beat may be hyperdynamic and there could be a systolic thrill. The classic sign is a loud pansystolic murmur, often accompanied by a mid diastolic murmur at the apex (due to high flow through the mitral valve) (see Table 1). In patients with raised pulmonary vascular resistance, right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH) is evident and the pulmonary second sound might be accentuated, followed by the early diastolic murmur of pulmonary regurgitation. With small VSDs, the electrocardiogram (ECG)is normal. With larger ones, there is evidence of biventricular enlargement (tall R waves and deep S waves in leads V1–V6), especially when pulmonary vascular resistance is high. Similarly, with a small defect the chest x-ray (CXR) is normal, but with a large shunt there is cardiomegaly and prominence of the pulmonary vessels. Large shunts should be closed surgically. However, if pulmonary hypertension has developed, surgery is usually contraindicated as closing it may worsen the pulmonary hypertension. The main complication of VSD is infective endocarditis. Vegetations may appear at the tricuspid valve, opposite or around the defect, or on the aortic valve. In certain lesions, aortic incompetence may develop due to loss of support of the valve. 204 )%( ecnedicnI Adult congenital heart disease Ventricular septal defect Right ventricle Left ventricle Figure 2. Ventricular septal defect. Atrial septal defect Right ventricle Left ventricle Figure 3. Atrial septal defect. The prognosis for adults with uncomplicated VSD is good. Few patients have defects large enough to cause serious hemodynamic problems, but all are exposed to the risk of infective endocarditis. Atrial septal defect Three types of atrial septal defect (ASD) can occur: • ostium secundum is the most common type (70%). It can be large, but usually does not affect the atrioventricular valves (see Figures 3 and4) • ostium primum – the hole is situated close to the atrioventricular valves
