Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


(70%). It can be large, but usually does not affect the atrioventricular valves (see Figures 3 and4) • ostium primum – the hole is situated close to the atrioventricular valves and can be associated with an atrioventricular septal defect 205 Chapter 14 Ventricular septal defect Atrial septal defect Biventricular hypertrophy LAD, RBBB (primum) RVH RVH, RAD, RBBB (secundum) PSM MSM (MDM) Table 1. Characteristics of atrial septal defect and ventricular septal defect. Note the wide, fixed splitting of the second heart sound in atrial septal defect. LAD: left axis deviation; MDM: mid diastolic murmur; MSM: mid systolic murmur; PSM: pansystolic accentuation of murmur; RAD: right axis deviation; RBBB: right bundle branch block; RVH: right ventricular hypertrophy. (a) (b) ASD ASD Figure 4.Atrial septal defect (ASD) shown by (a) transesophageal echocardiography, and (b) transesophageal Doppler. • sinus venosus is a defect situated near the entrance of the superior venacava (SVC) or inferior vena cava to the right atrium. It is unusual and is often associated with partial anomalous pulmonary venous drainage (usually drainage of the right upper lobe into the SVC) Pathophysiology The shunt of blood from the left atrium to the right atrium results in: • increased volume load and dilatation of the right atrium and right ventricle (RV) • increased pulmonary blood flow and enlargement of the pulmonary arteries • increase in size of the pulmonary veins • reduced filling of the left ventricle (LV) and aorta 206 Adult congenital heart disease Over time, the aorta and LV shrink, and pulmonary vascular resistance increases and causes Eisenmenger syndrome (see below). Recognizing ASD Most patients with secundum ASD remain asymptomatic throughout their thirties, but visit their doctor in middle-age with the onset of breathlessness and fatigue (note the nonspecific signs). Symptoms are usually progressive and worsened by the development of atrial arrhythmias. Patients with primum ASD tend to present earlier and with more severe symptoms. The classic sign of ASD is wide, fixed splitting of the second heart sound, together with a systolic murmur due to high flow across the pulmonary valve (see Table 1). Primum ASD may be accompanied by mitral regurgitation. ECG might indicate RBBB and either RVH and right axis deviation (secundum) or left axis deviation (primum) (see Table 1). CXR may show cardiomegaly with a prominent pulmonary trunk. Management ASDs that are large enough to give clear physical signs should be closed. Closure of an ostium
