Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


(see Table 1). CXR may show cardiomegaly with a prominent pulmonary trunk. Management ASDs that are large enough to give clear physical signs should be closed. Closure of an ostium secundum defect is relatively easy and carries a low mortality rate. Correction of an ostium primum defect, with its associated anomalies, is more difficult and carries a higher mortality rate. More recently, percutaneous device closure of small and moderate size ASDs has been possible. In this procedure, a “butterfly” device (eg, the Clamshell occluder, the Starflex occluder, or the Amplatzer occluder) is manipulated noninvasively into the heart and “opened”, whereupon it grasps the defect on either side and closes it (see Figures 5 and6). Primum ASD requires prophylaxis for infective endocarditis, while secundum ASD doesnot. Eisenmenger syndrome This is the name given to reversal in the direction of a cardiac shunt caused by the development of pulmonary hypertension. It applies regardless of whether the shunt is atrial or ventricular. Initial flow is always from high pressure (left) to low pressure (right), but pulmonary pressure can rise above systemic pressure and cause a reversal of flow. Signs of pulmonary hypertension are RVH, pulmonary systolic click, and loud pulmonary valve closure. CXR shows large main pulmonary arteries and branches with peripheral pruning. After the development of Eisenmenger physiology, only heart–lung transplantation is of value in management. 207 Chapter 14 Clamshell occluder LA RA IVC Figure 5.The Clamshell occluder for closure of an atrial septal defect. IVC: inferior vena cava; LA: left atrium; RA: right atrium. (a) (b) Figure 6.The Amplatzer occluder (a) before and (b) after deployment. 208 Adult congenital heart disease Left common carotid artery Left subclavian Brachiocephalic artery artery Coarctation Aorta Figure 7. Coarctation of the aorta. Bicuspid aortic valve Bicuspid aortic valves often function normally throughout most of a patient’s life. However, fibrosis and calcification ultimately lead to aortic stenosis (see Chapter 9, Valve disease) and an eventual requirement for surgical correction. Coarctation of the aorta Coarctation of the aorta is a narrowing of the lumen, usually just distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery (see Figure 7). Most commonly, the patient presents in their twenties or thirties, usually with hypertension. Without surgery, 50% die before the age of 30 years. Potential treatments include resection of the narrowed segment with end-to-end anastomosis, repair involving the subclavian artery, and balloon angioplasty – the role of which remains controversial.
