Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


age of 30 years. Potential treatments include resection of the narrowed segment with end-to-end anastomosis, repair involving the subclavian artery, and balloon angioplasty – the role of which remains controversial. Hypertension, which is often the presenting feature, must be aggressively treated both before and after surgery (it commonly persists). Pulmonary valve stenosis Patients with mild to moderate pulmonary stenosis usually remain asymptomatic until the onset of atrial flutter/fibrillation or right heart failure, which lead to breathlessness, ascites, peripheral edema, and a visit to the doctor. Fatigue, slight dyspnea, and effort syncope occur with severe narrowing. The physical signs depend on the severity of the obstruction and secondary effects on RV function. In severe stenosis, the arterial pulse is small and the jugular venous pulse exhibits a large “a” wave. On palpation, there is nearly always a systolic thrill in the second left intercostal space and there is a left parasternal heave. An early systolic 209 Chapter 14 “ejection” click and a loud ejection murmur are best heard in the second intercostal space. The second sound is normal in mild cases, but in more severe cases it is widely split and the second (pulmonary) element is soft. ECG shows RVH in severe stenosis, while CXR shows a dilated pulmonary trunk with oligemic lung fields. Balloon valvotomy is indicated in severe pulmonary stenosis. Surgical valvotomy is an alternative. Patent ductus arteriosus Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) describes a preservation of the connection between the pulmonary artery and the aorta that exists in the fetus (see Figure 8). Since aortic diastolic pressure is higher than pulmonary artery systolic pressure, there is continuous flow into the pulmonary circulation, creating the characteristic continuous (“machinery”) murmur, heard best just below the left clavicle. In hemodynamically insignificant lesions (>50% of cases), patients are asymptomatic. Patients with bigger shunts develop cardiac failure at an age that depends on the severity of the lesion. Eisenmenger syndrome can occur with PDA. Treatment is surgical closure of the duct; this can be carried out percutaneously. Fallot’s tetralogy Fallot’s tetralogy is one of the causes of cyanotic congenital heart disease. The features derive from an abnormally positioned aorta that “over-rides” the interventricular septum (see Figure 9). This causes: • perimembranous VSD • RV outflow obstruction (pulmonary stenosis) • RVH The chief symptom is cyanosis on exercise. Children typically “squat” for relief of dyspnea after exercise (almost pathognomonic). Chest pain, arrhythmia, and congestive heart
