Cardiology
KEYWORDS: heart, patients, failure, figure, disease, hypertension, coronary, heart failure, ecg, cardiac, ventricular, left, patient, table, chapter


outflow obstruction (pulmonary stenosis) • RVH The chief symptom is cyanosis on exercise. Children typically “squat” for relief of dyspnea after exercise (almost pathognomonic). Chest pain, arrhythmia, and congestive heart failure are more common in adults than in children. Clubbing is common. Surgical correction usually involves resection of the hypertrophied RV infundibulum and VSD closure with incorporation of the aorta into the RV. Adult Fallot’s patients often suffer impaired exercise capacity due to poor RV function. Transposition of the great arteries In transposition of the great arteries (TGA), the RV connects to the aorta and the LV connects to the pulmonary artery (see Figure 10). The result, following peripartum closure of the foramen ovale, is two parallel circulations – a physiology that is not compatible with life. The neonate would die instantly were it not for the common coexistence of a patent foramen ovale, ASD, VSD, or PDA. In infants, an 210 Adult congenital heart disease Aorta PDA Pulmonary artery Right ventricle Left ventricle Figure 8. Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). improvement in symptoms can be achieved by creating a large defect in the atrial septum to allow mixing of the blood between systemic and pulmonary circulations (Rashkind’s procedure – see Figure 11). This is performed by passing a balloon catheter into the left atrium via the right atrium. After inflation, the balloon catheter is pulled back forcefully into the right atrium, creating a tear in the septum. This procedure is usually effective in the neonatal period and allows the child to live until the latter part of the first year of life, when the Mustard operation can be performed. This involves rerouting venous return by inserting an intra-atrial baffle. The definitive treatment is the arterial switch operation, in which the arteries are switched back to their appropriate ventricles. The biggest challenge with this procedure is reattaching the coronary arteries, the anatomical organization of which is variable in TGA. In addition, the “low pressure” LV must take on filling of the systemic circulation. Ebstein’s anomaly Ebstein’s anomaly is the downward displacement of a portion of the tricuspid valve with atrialization of a large part of the RV (see Figure 12). There is often an associated ostium secundum ASD. The atrialized portion of the ventricle hinders rather than helps the forward flow of blood and there is tricuspid regurgitation. Occasionally Ebstein’s anomaly is asymptomatic, but it generally presents in childhood or early
