Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


ABSTRACT Erectile dysfunction (ED) is the inability to achieve and maintain an erection sufficient to permit satisfactory sexual intercourse. Approximately 23% of men aged 40-80 years worldwide have symptoms of ED. The prevalence of ED is higher in older men but this condition can occur in men of any age. The prevalence of ED ranges between 30-90% in men with diabetes and may be the presenting symptom for the disease in almost a third of cases. In this chapter, we review the physiology of penile erection and pathophysiology of ED. We review contemporary medical treatments for ED, surgical options for patients that fail medical management, and novel therapies in development. We also briefly review priapism, the condition of prolonged penile erection not associated with sexual desire. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Erectile dysfunction (ED) is defined as the inability to achieve and maintain an erection sufficient to permit satisfactory sexual intercourse ( 1 ). ED may result from psychological, neurologic, hormonal, vascular, or medication-induced causes. Approximately 23% of men aged 40-80 years worldwide have symptoms of ED ( 2 ). ED occurs in men of all ages; the prevalence increases with age ( 3 , 4 ). Diabetes is a common and important case of ED due to the diseases impact on both neurological and vascular factors germane to penile erection ( 5 ). PHYSIOLOGY OF PENILE ERECTIONS Penile erection is a neurovascular event modulated by psychological and hormonal status. The penis is innervated by autonomic and somatic nerves. The autonomic nervous innervation of the penis consists of sympathetic fibers (derived from the T11-L2 spinal cord level) and parasympathetic fibers (derived from the S2-4 spinal cord level) which merge to form the cavernous nerves in the pelvis. The autonomic nervous innervation of the penis regulates corporal smooth muscle and arterial contraction and relaxation, which are the primary drivers of penile tumescence. The somatic portion of the pudendal nerve is responsible for penile sensation and the contraction and relaxation of the bulbocavernosus and ischiocavernosus striated muscles. These muscles are important for maximal penile erection and for expulsion of semen during ejaculation ( 6 , 7 ) . The penis is flaccid in the resting state. Suppression of penile erection and maintenance of the flaccid state is mediated by the sympathetic nervous system and adrenergic nerve terminals. Vascular factors
