Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


penis is flaccid in the resting state. Suppression of penile erection and maintenance of the flaccid state is mediated by the sympathetic nervous system and adrenergic nerve terminals. Vascular factors such as endothelin may also contribute to resting smooth muscle tone in the penis. Smooth muscle tone is ultimately mediated by activation of the myosin light chain, which tends to increase contraction. The RhoA/Rho kinase pathway also plays a critical role in smooth muscle contraction by suppressing myosin light chain phosphatase. A depiction of contractile molecules which mediate penile flaccidity is presented in Figure 1 . Figure 1. Pathways that Promote Contraction and Oppose Erection Penile erection is induced in part by suppression of sympathetic tone. A number of brain centers integrate erotic stimuli and contribute to erection by suppressing the sympathetic nervous system. The neurotransmitter dopamine appears to play a critical role in central nervous system-based stimulation of erection whereas serotonin plays a mostly (but not universally) inhibitory role ( 8 , 9 ) . Erection also requires activation of the parasympathetic nervous system; this is mediated in large part by release of nitric oxide (NO) from nonadrenergic-noncholinergic cavernous nerve terminals in the genital vascular system. NO is produced in nerve tissue by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). NO activates soluble guanylyl cyclase, which cleaves guanosine triphosphate (GTP) to produce cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). cGMP in turn activates cGMP-specific protein kinases, which phosphorylates certain proteins and ion channels, resulting in: opening of the potassium channels and hyperpolarization; sequestration of intracellular calcium by the endoplasmic reticulum; and inhibition of calcium channels, blocking calcium influx. The consequence is a drop in cytosolic calcium content ( 10 ) . Decline in calcium content results in smooth muscle relaxation via relaxation of the actin myosin cross-bridges. There is resultant vasodilation in the arteries and arterioles supplying the erectile tissue. A several-fold increase in blood flow occurs, with a concomitant increase in compliance of the corporeal sinusoids from relaxed cavernous smooth muscle. The increase in blood flow triggers activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) that further increases NO production and maintenance/enhancement of vasodilation ( 11 ). A graphical depiction of the NO/cGMP relaxant pathway is depicted in Figure 2 . Additional vasodilation may be accomplished through the cyclic adenosine monophosphate pathway, depicted in Figure 3 . Figure 2. The NO cGMP Pathway in Erection Figure 3. The cAMP Pathway in Erection With enhancement
