Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


be accomplished through the cyclic adenosine monophosphate pathway, depicted in Figure 3 . Figure 2. The NO cGMP Pathway in Erection Figure 3. The cAMP Pathway in Erection With enhancement of corporal blood flow there is rapid filling and expansion of the corporal sinusoidal system against the tunica albuginea. The subtunical venular plexuses are compressed between the corporeal sinusoids and the tunica albuginea, resulting in almost total occlusion of venous outflow ( 12 , 13 ). With trapping of blood within the corpora cavernosa the flaccid penis becomes erect; during the full erection phase intracavernous pressures increases to approximately 100 mm Hg. With increasing sexual arousal, the bulbocavernosus reflex is triggered, causing the ischiocavernosus muscles to forcefully compress the base of the blood-filled corpora cavernosa and the penis. During this rigid erection phase the penis (including the corpus spongiosum and glans) becomes very hard, with intracavernous pressure reaching several hundred mm Hg in some cases. During this phase, arterial inflow may cease or even reverse (i.e., arterial blood flows retrograde towards the heart) ( 14 ) With sexual climax or cessation of arousal, the penis returns to the flaccid state. Flaccidity is initiated in large part by hydrolysis of cGMP to guanosine monophosphate by phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5). Other phosphodiesterases are found in the corpus cavernosum, but they do not appear to play a major role in detumescence. Detumescence is also mediated by sympathetic discharge during ejaculation, leading to vasoconstriction and cessation of NO release from the cavernous nerves and corporal endothelium. The sub-tunical venous channels open with contraction of the trabecular smooth muscle, permitting egress of trapped blood and restoring flaccidity ( 10 ). CLASSIFICATION OF ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION ED may be mediated by defects in the neuronal, hormonal, arterial, or cavernosal systems. ED is commonly associated with specific medications. ED is also strongly associated with psychological distress. ED is in most cases multifactorial, with at least some element of a psychogenic component as a primary cause or as secondary development in reaction to the ED state. Some disease states (e.g., diabetes) may cause ED via multiple mechanisms ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Classification and Common Causes of Erectile Dysfunction View in own window Category of Erectile dysfunction Common disorders Pathophysiology Neurogenic -Stroke -Alzheimer’s disease -Spinal cord injury -Radical pelvic surgeries -Diabetic neuropathy -Pelvic injury -Interrupted neuronal innervation -Failure to initiate NO release Psychogenic -Depression -Psychological stress -Performance anxiety
