Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


spinal cord injury, sensory input from the genitalia remains essential to achieving and maintaining reflexogenic erection. This input may be compromised due to peripheral neuropathy in men with diabetes ( 18 ). About 50 percent of men with chronic diabetes mellitus are reported to have ED, although this number dramatically increases with age. In addition to the disease's effect on small vessels, it may also affect the cavernous nerve terminals and endothelial cells, resulting in deficiency of neurotransmitters ( 10 ). Additionally, corporal smooth muscle relaxation in response to neuronal- and endothelial-derived nitric oxide (NO) is impaired in men with diabetes, possibly due to the accumulation of glycosylation products ( 19 - 21 ). Chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) has frequently been associated with diminished erectile function, impaired libido, and infertility ( 22 , 23 ).The mechanism of ED in CRI is likely multifactorial and includes low serum testosterone, vascular insufficiency, medication-related, depressed libido, and autonomic and somatic neuropathy ( 24 - 26 ). Diabetes is a major risk factor for CRI and hence CRI is a relevant consideration in men with diabetes. Psychogenic ED may relate to performance anxiety, strained relationship, lack of sexual arousal, and overt psychiatric disorders such as depression and schizophrenia ( 27 ). The strong relationship between psychogenic stress and sexual dysfunction is well established ( 28 ). Androgen deficiency is associated with diminished libido and less frequent nocturnal erections ( 29 ). However, erection response is preserved in many men with low serum testosterone, suggesting that androgens are beneficial but not essential for erection ( 30 ). Men with diabetes are at increased risk of androgen deficiency; serum testosterone testing is often warranted in diabetic men with or without ED ( 29 , 31 ). Prolactin is another pituitary hormone that has inhibitory activity on central dopaminergic activity and gonadotropin-releasing hormone secretion. Hyperprolactinemia has been linked to reproductive and sexual dysfunction. Vascular disease is a common and important cause of ED ( 32 ). Common vascular risk factors associated with generalized penile arterial insufficiency include hypertension, hyperlipidemia, cigarette smoking, diabetes mellitus, trauma, and pelvic irradiation ( 33 ). Focal stenosis of the common penile artery is not common but can be a cause of ED in men who have sustained repetitive and/or severe pelvic or perineal trauma (e.g. biking accidents, pelvic fractures) ( 34 ) . Veno-occlusive dysfunction (VOD) results from disruption of the blood
