Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


in men who have sustained repetitive and/or severe pelvic or perineal trauma (e.g. biking accidents, pelvic fractures) ( 34 ) . Veno-occlusive dysfunction (VOD) results from disruption of the blood trapping capacity of the tunica albuginea of the corpora. In this situation there may be inadequate compression of the subtunical venules during the full erection phase ( 35 ). Venous leak ED may also be the result of degenerative changes that affect the penis including Peyronie's disease, penile scarring, and diabetes mellitus. A patient may develop VOD from traumatic injury to the tunica albuginea such as a penile fracture. Venous leak can also be seen in anxious men with excessive adrenergic tone causing structural alterations of the cavernous smooth muscle and endothelium and insufficient trabecular smooth muscle relaxation ( 36 ). Virtually all drugs have been associated with ED although some classes are more prone to sexual side effects than others. Central neurotransmitter pathways, including serotonergic, noradrenergic, and dopaminergic pathways involved in sexual function, may be disturbed by antipsychotics and antidepressants ( 27 ). Although any antihypertensive agent could theoretically cause ED by decreasing the availability of blood to the corporal arteries (i.e., a pressure-head phenomenon), differences are noted between various classes of medications ( 37 ). Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are relatively less likely to cause ED. Beta-adrenergic blocking drugs may lead to erectile dysfunction by potentiating a-1 adrenergic activity in the penis, although more modern beta blockers with eNOS activity (such as nebivolol) may help minimize this effect ( 38 ) . Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause erectile dysfunction by an unknown mechanism ( 39 ) . Anti-androgens are another common drug type that may contribute to ED( 40 ). Recreational drugs including cigarettes and alcohol affect erectile function. Cigarette smoking may induce vasoconstriction and penile venous leakage because of its contractile effect on the cavernous smooth muscle. More importantly, chronic use may accelerate atherosclerotic changes in penile microvasculature ( 41 ). Alcohol in small amounts may improve erections and increase libido because of its vasodilatory effect and the suppression of performance anxiety. However, large amounts of alcohol can cause central sedation, decreased libido and transient erectile dysfunction. Chronic alcoholism may cause hypogonadism and polyneuropathy; this may in turn affect penile nerve function ( 42 ). EVALUATION OF ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION Erectile dysfunction may be the first manifestation of many disease states, including
