Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


hypogonadism and polyneuropathy; this may in turn affect penile nerve function ( 42 ). EVALUATION OF ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION Erectile dysfunction may be the first manifestation of many disease states, including diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, spinal-cord compression, pituitary tumors, and pelvic malignancies. ED is a sentinel event for major adverse cardiac events and is therefore an indication for formal cardiovascular evaluation ( 32 ). The evaluation of a patient with ED requires a thorough history (medical, sexual, and psycho-social), physical examination and appropriate laboratory tests (creatinine, fasting glucose, lipid profile, total testosterone, and bioavailable or free testosterone) aimed at detecting underlying metabolic disease states ( 1 ). If the man's testosterone concentration (free, total, or bioavailable) is low, serum prolactin and luteinizing hormone should be assayed to detect abnormalities of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis ( 29 , 31 ). After assessing the therapeutic needs and goals of the patient, further diagnostic and treatment options can be offered. The patient’s partner(s) should be involved in treatment planning and decision making ( 1 ). In men who do not have a sexual partner, there should be discussion about goals in terms of future sexual relationships. Decisions on treatment should be based on patient goals and risk tolerance. If the patient has a regular partner, it is beneficial to involve them in conversations about goals and treatment options. The most recent AUA guideline on ED recommends that all treatments be considered first line. Most men are best served by a progression from minimally to maximally invasive options; however, a properly counseled man may elect to bypass less invasive options if he so desires and if deemed medically appropriate ( 1 ). The patient's performance status and cardiovascular health should be evaluated, in consultation with a cardiologist, if necessary, in order to assess the patient's ability to tolerate sexual activity ( 43 ). Patients who have poor exercise tolerance should consider physical conditioning prior to resuming sexual activity ( 43 ). Exercise, healthy diet, and weight loss may be sufficient to partially restore erection response in some men ( 44 ) Men with complex ED may benefit from a referral for further testing and treatment by a sexual medicine specialist, sex therapist, or medical provider with expertise in a specific health condition germane to sexual responses ( Table 2 ). The indications for specialty referral include complex gonadal or other endocrine disorders, neurologic
