Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


medical provider with expertise in a specific health condition germane to sexual responses ( Table 2 ). The indications for specialty referral include complex gonadal or other endocrine disorders, neurologic deficit suggestive of brain or spinal cord disease, deep-seated psychologic or psychiatric problems, post-traumatic or lifelong erectile dysfunction and unstable cardiovascular disease ( 1 ). Table 2. Medical Workup of Erectile Dysfunction View in own window Test Indications Combined injection and stimulation (CIS), Intracavernous injection of vasodilator followed by penile self-stimulation) Assessment of penile vascular function and presence of penile deformities with erection. Therapeutic test in men who choose intracavernous therapy for ED CIS with color Duplex ultrasonography (CDU) Assessment of arterial inflow and veno-occlusive potential of the penis Assess for fibrosis/plaque formation/calcification of the corpora Cavernosography Assessment for congenital or traumatic venous leakage in men with veno-occlusive ED by CDU (rarely utilized in contemporary practice) Pelvic arteriography Assess for arterial lesions in men with arterial ED by CDU (rarely utilized in contemporary practice) Ambulatory nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity (Rigiscan®) Assess nocturnal erection responses (Historically used to differentiate psychogenic from organic erectile dysfunction but prone to unreliability and seldom utilized in contemporary practice) Peyronie’s disease (PD) is an acquired fibrotic disorder of the penis that merits specific mention in the context of managing ED ( 45 ). The condition remains poorly understood but is thought to involve a genetic predisposition to collagen deposition and inflammation in connective tissues after minor traumas as may be experienced during sexual activity. Men with PD are at increased risk of other fibrotic conditions including Dupuytren’s contractures and tympanosclerosis ( 45 ). PD was once thought to be quite rare; with the introduction of highly effective therapy for ED many cases of PD that might have once gone unrecognized are now diagnosed. Prevalence estimates vary but signs of PD may be detected by experienced examiners in approximately 9% of men presenting for evaluation by an experienced urologist ( 46 ). The classical manifestation of PD is penile curvature, but the disorder may also be associated with pain, narrowing, corporal fibrosis, and hinging ( 45 ). The single US-FDA approved medical therapy for PD is injections of Clostridial collagenase into the tunica albuginea of the corporal bodies followed by a course of penile modeling. This therapy has been associated with modest but significant improvements in penile curvature compared to placebo injections ( 47 ). In
