Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


curative -Requires surgery -Poor results in older men with generalized vascular disease Restrict to arterial bypass surgery in specialized centers for select healthy young men with traumatic arterial disruption as cause of ED. Surgery for venous leak is no longer recommended as a standard of care in any patient. 1. MUSE® signifies Medicated Urethral System for Erection. It contains alprostadil pellet. 2. Caverject® and Edex® both contain injectable alprostadil. Drug mixtures contain two or three of the following drugs: papaverine, phentolamine and prostaglandin, atropine. Androgens Historically, androgens were thought to enhance male sexual function. However, androgen therapy has only been shown to be of clinical benefit in men with low serum testosterone and symptoms potentially referable to hypogonadism ( 29 ) . There is controversy over what constitutes a “low” level of testosterone with cut points for normal ranging between 264-350 ng/dL depending on definitions based on population norms and/or increased odds of symptoms potentially referable to low serum testosterone. ( 29 , 31 , 49 , 50 ). Assessment of serum free testosterone (ideally with equilibrium dialysis or other highly precise methodology) is controversial and recommended in select cases by some experts ( 51 ) but not by others ( 31 , 52 ). The sexual benefits of supplementation in men with low serum testosterone primarily pertains to libido but mild improvements in erectile function in patients may occur with testosterone supplementation alone ( 53 ). The United States Testosterone Trial demonstrated moderate improvement of erectile function with testosterone gel therapy compared to placebo in men ≥ 65 years and serum total testosterone concentrations ≤ 275 ng/dl; these men were not a priori screened for erectile dysfunction.( 54 ) Testosterone cypionate, enanthate, and undecanoate may be used for intramuscular replacement therapy. A standard dosing regimen is 200 mg intramuscularly every two weeks although different dosing regimens have been described. Lower doses at shorter intervals may produce less pronounced variation in serum testosterone levels between doses. Several daily transdermal testosterone preparations (testosterone patches or gels) are available. Daily application of these preparations raises serum testosterone concentrations to within the normal range in over 90 percent of men. The most common adverse effects of testosterone patches are skin irritation and contact dermatitis. Gel formulations are less prone to skin irritation but care must be taken to avoid skin-to-skin contact and transfer of testosterone to others (e.g., spouse, children) for at least
