Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


dermatitis. Gel formulations are less prone to skin irritation but care must be taken to avoid skin-to-skin contact and transfer of testosterone to others (e.g., spouse, children) for at least 2 hours post dosing ( 29 ) . Recent refinements in testosterone supplementation include novel testosterone pellets, which are implanted in a minor office procedure and provide 2-4 months of therapeutic testosterone levels ( 55 ). A ten week depot testosterone preparation was recently approved for use in the United States; this long acting formulation may obviate the need for frequent injections ( 56 ). These long-acting formulations may be considered for patients who have tolerated shorter acting formulations and reported significant benefit. Additional recent innovations that have achieved FDA approval include subcutaneous injectable testosterone and nasal testosterone ( 31 ). Testosterone treatment may contribute to polycythemia, acne, edema, and decreased HDL cholesterol. Testosterone may also lead to estrogen by aromatization in adipose tissue; this may lead to gynecomastia and theoretically to higher risk of deep venous thrombosis. Men receiving androgen replacement therapy require routine follow up appointments with measurement of hematocrit, serum testosterone, and PSA. It is prudent to have more frequent checks in the early phase after initiation of therapy ( 29 ). Due to the well-established benefits of surgical or medical castration for the management of advanced prostate cancer there has been a long-standing concern that testosterone supplementation may increase the risk of prostate cancer ( 31 , 57 ). This relationship is based primarily on conjecture; there is an emerging body of literature which suggests that testosterone supplementation does not materially alter the risk of prostate cancer development ( 58 ). There is limited evidence that men with low serum testosterone may be at greater risk of aggressive prostate cancer ( 59 ), although there is currently no evidence that supplementation moderates this risk. Numerous reports have been published of men with successfully treated prostate cancer using testosterone supplements with no increase in risk for PSA recurrence ( 60 ). Some clinicians have also reported continued testosterone supplementation in men with untreated prostate cancer; until more data are available providers in general practice should exercise caution with respect to testosterone supplementation in men with untreated prostate cancer ( 57 , 61 ). The issue of cardiac safety and testosterone received a great deal of media attention in the mid 2010s. High profile publications in prestigious journals
