Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


cancer ( 57 , 61 ). The issue of cardiac safety and testosterone received a great deal of media attention in the mid 2010s. High profile publications in prestigious journals reported increased rates of cardiovascular events and mortality in men using testosterone supplements ( 62 , 63 ). Testosterone is known to exert several effects that may increase cardiac risk. At the same time, the known benefits of testosterone include increased lean body mass, decreased adiposity, and improved insulin sensitivity ( 64 ). Men with low serum testosterone are known to be at greater risk of all-cause mortality ( 65 ). Higher rates of cardiac events in men taking testosterone supplement may be due to baseline risk rather than additional risk from supplementation. Type 5 Phosphodiesterase Inhibitors (PDE5I) Oral therapy with a type 5 phosphodiesterase inhibitor (PDE5I, e.g., sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil, and avanafil) is in the most frequently utilized first-line therapy men with ED ( 1 ). PDE5I block the inactivation of cGMP and result in increased smooth muscle relaxation and penile arterial blood flow. In the absence of sexual stimulation these medications have minimal effect on penile blood flow; this relationship may explain frequent PDE5I “failure” in men not properly counseled on proper use of this class of drugs. Numerous placebo-controlled studies have been conducted on the safety and efficacy of sildenafil since it was approved for clinical use in 1998 ( 66 ) . Sildenafil has been consistently shown to increase the number of erections, penile rigidity, orgasmic function, and overall sexual satisfaction compared to placebo in men with ED of every etiology, including diabetes and radical prostatectomy. Similar data exist for the other drugs in this class. ( 67 - 69 ) Most clinical trials of PDE-5 inhibitors show only mild to moderate, self-limited adverse events associated with all of the PDE-5 inhibitors ( 70 ). The most common complaints in men using PDE-5 inhibitors are headache (16 percent), flushing (10 percent), dyspepsia (7 percent), nasal congestion (4 percent), and visual disturbances/ color sensitivity (3 percent). Tadalafil distinguishes itself from vardenafil and sildenafil by the relative lack of visual side effects. It does however have the possible adverse effect of back pain and/or myalgia ( 71 ). PDE5I have an excellent track record of cardiac safety ( 72 ). To date, tens of millions of men in over 100 countries have used sildenafil. Since the release of
