Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


PDE5I have an excellent track record of cardiac safety ( 72 ). To date, tens of millions of men in over 100 countries have used sildenafil. Since the release of the drug, over 200 deaths temporally associated with sildenafil therapy were reported to the Food and Drug Administration in the United States of America. Sexual activity is a likely contributor to myocardial infarction in men with heart disease, with sildenafil acting to enable men not previously active to engage in sexual activity ( 73 , 74 ). PDE5I therapy is safe for most men, although men with cardiovascular disease should consult with their cardiologist prior to engaging in sexual activity. The Princeton III guidelines provide recommendations for management of ED in men with cardiovascular disease. Princeton III recommends risk stratification before initiation of therapy; men at low-risk may be treated whereas men with high-risk (e.g., recent MI, unstable angina, NYHA Class III or IV heart failure, unstable arrythmia) should not be treated until their situation stabilizes. Men who do not fall neatly into low- or high-risk categories should undergo cardiac evaluation ( 43 ) . A lower starting dose (25 mg of sildenafil, 5 mg of vardenafil or tadalafil, 50 mg of avanafil) is recommended in patients who may attain and maintain higher plasma levels of PDE5I. These include patients who are older than 65, have severe renal impairment, or take potent CYP450 3A4 inhibitors. Patients who take ritonavir should not take more than 25 mg of Sildenafil in a 48-hour period. Patients using PDE5I and requiring alpha-blocker therapy for hypertension or benign prostate hyperplasia should start at low doses of PDE5 inhibitor, which can be titrated to affect. To avoid symptomatic hypotension, PDE5 inhibitors should not be taken within 4 hours of an alpha-blocker. One study found a significant rate of hypotension (28% versus 6% with placebo) in patients taking concomitant doxazosin and tadalafil ( 75 ). The rate of hypotension matched that seen in placebo-treated patients in patients taking tamsulosin and tadalafil, and some studies suggest that the interaction has less clinical relevance in patients who have undergone long-term alpha-blocker therapy. It is likely that all four PDE5I commercially available in the US interact to some degree with alpha-blockers and that concurrent use of alpha-blockers and PDE5I may cause patients to develop orthostatic hypotension. Other antihypertensive agents appear to be well tolerated by men concurrently taking PDE5I. PDE5I
