Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


alpha-blockers and that concurrent use of alpha-blockers and PDE5I may cause patients to develop orthostatic hypotension. Other antihypertensive agents appear to be well tolerated by men concurrently taking PDE5I. PDE5I have been associated with spontaneous non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), the most common acute optic neuropathy. Estimated annual incidence is 2.3 to 10.3 per 100,000 and is more common in Caucasians than African Americans, Asians, or Latinx persons. Most NAION patients do not become legally blind, but the degree of visual acuity and visual field loss is typically significant. Risk factors common to NAION and ED include hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, age over 50 years, coronary artery disease, and smoking ( 76 ). A large review of ophthalmology records in the United States and Europe reported a very slight but statistically significant relationship between NAION and PDE5I use within the last 30 days. The authors concluded that use of PDE5I may be associated with an increase of approximately three NAION cases per 100,000 men over the age of 50 ( 77 , 78 ). Men using PDE5I should be counseled to stop treatment and contact their physician immediately should visual changes or loss occur. Men with a history of NAION should not use PDE5 inhibitors ( 79 ). PDE5I have also been implicated in several cases of hearing loss. Several dozen cases of PDE5 inhibitor associated hearing loss have been reported and some research has indicated mechanisms by which hearing loss may be attributable to action of these drugs ( 80 , 81 ). Men who experience hearing impairment while using PDE5 inhibitors should halt treatment until they are able to speak with their doctors regarding long-term risk of hearing loss. SILDENAFIL Sildenafil (Viagra®, Pfizer) works best when taken on an empty stomach (especially avoiding high lipid foods) and reaches maximum plasma concentrations within 30 to 120 minutes (mean 60 minutes). It is eliminated predominantly by hepatic metabolism, and the terminal half-life is about 4 hours. The recommended starting dose is 50 mg taken one hour before sexual activity. The maximal recommended frequency is once per day. The efficacy of sildenafil has been extensively studied in patients with other coexisting diseases ( 82 ). No significant difference in response rate was noted comparing a normal cohort of patients with patients with hypertension ( 83 ), spinal cord injury ( 84 ), depression ( 85 ), and the elderly ( 86
