Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


for sexual intercourse at 11 minutes after using 20 mg of Vardenafil. At 25 minutes, 53% of patients obtained erections sufficient enough for penetration as compared to placebo (26%). The statistically superior response to vardenafil versus placebo was observed in all times from 11-25 minutes ( 92 ). Like sildenafil, absorption of vardenafil is impaired when the medication is taken after a high fat meal ( 93 ). The side effects most frequently seen with vardenafil include flushing, dyspepsia, headache, and visual disturbances ( 94 ) Adverse events reported in men taking vardenafil closely resemble those in men taking sildenafil and tadalafil. Headache (21%), flushing (13%), and dyspepsia (6%) are seen at various frequencies depending on dosages used. TADALAFIL Tadalafil (Cialis®, Eli Lilly, USA) is a PDE5I which has a distinctly different chemical structure from vardenafil and sildenafil ( 71 ). Because tadalafil has lower affinity for PDE-6 (localized to the eye) it is associated with a low incidence of visual side effects. Tadalafil is dosed at 5, 10 and 20 mg on demand and is also available as a daily dose medication at 2.5 and 5 mg. Tadalafil’s erection potentiating effect may onset within 30-45 minutes of dosing but may last as long as 24-48 hours ( 95 ). Similar to other PDE5I, the risk of serious adverse events with tadalafil is low. In addition to the lack of visual side effects, tadalafil also tends to have a reduced incidence of facial flushing compared to the other PDE5I. The incidence of back/muscle pain is generally higher with tadalafil as compared to other PDE5I. Absorption of tadalafil is minimally impacted upon by food intake. An integrated analysis from five randomized control double blind placebo trials revealed that men with varying severities of ED significantly improved with Tadalafil therapy at 10 and 20 mg dosages. The mean IIEF score (International Index of Erectile Dysfunction score) increased by 6.5 and 7.9 at the 10 and 20 mg dosage of tadalafil. This increase was statistically significant compared to placebo ( 96 ). In pharmacological studies tadalafil appears to be rapidly absorbed and reaches a peak serum concentration by 2 hours. The most salient unique property of tadalafil is its half-life of approximately 17.5 hours. The absorption and excretion of tadalafil does not appear to be affected by food or alcohol. In a study of the delayed efficacy of tadalafil, at 36 hours post
