Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


hours. The absorption and excretion of tadalafil does not appear to be affected by food or alcohol. In a study of the delayed efficacy of tadalafil, at 36 hours post dose 62% of men taking the 20 mg treatment dose reported successful sexual intercourse compared to 33% of men who had taken placebo ( 97 ). Like sildanafil and vardenafil, tadalafil potentiates the hypotensive effects of nitric oxide and it is therefore contraindicated in patients taking nitrate medications. Tadalafil appears to be very well tolerated in most studies. The most frequently reported adverse events are headache and dyspepsia. Back pain, nasal congestion, myalgia, and nasal congestion have also been reported but tend to be mild. The rate of treatment discontinuation from adverse events is low at 2.2% compared with the placebo discontinuation rate of 1.3% ( 96 ). AVANAFIL A fourth PDE5 inhibitor called avanafil (Stendra®, Vivus) was approved for use in the United States in May of 2012 and became commercially available in 2014 ( 98 ). The chemical structure of avanafil differs from that of the three other drugs from the PDE5 inhibitor class. Avanafil is available in 50, 100, and 200 mg dosing and is efficacious in men with diabetes related ED ( 98 ). Avanafil is distinguished by having a rapid onset of action and a half-life of approximately 5-10 hours ( 99 ). The side effect profile is relatively similar to other drugs from the PDE5 inhibitor class ( 100 ). STRATEGIES FOR MEN WHO FAIL TO RESPOND TO PDE5 INHHBITORS Several strategies may salvage men who report failure with PDE5 inhibitors. An important first step is re-education on the correct use of the medications. Many patients need to be reminded that these medications are reliant on central mechanisms and that they will not work well without erotic stimulation. Up to 55% of sildenafil initial non-responders will respond after education ( 101 ). Dose titration or selection of an alternative PDE5I may be of benefit. Sildenafil, vardenafil, and avanafil tend to absorb more slowly (and hence have lower efficacy) after a high fat meal; tadalafil absorption is less dependent on timing of meals. Assay of serum testosterone should also be considered in PDE5I failures. Testosterone supplementation has also been associated with improvements in response to PDE5I ( 102 ). A randomized controlled trial of testosterone plus PDE5I therapy vs. testosterone alone in men with ED
