Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


supplementation has also been associated with improvements in response to PDE5I ( 102 ). A randomized controlled trial of testosterone plus PDE5I therapy vs. testosterone alone in men with ED did not show additive benefit from supplementation ( 103 ). However, this study was limited in that, during the pre-testosterone treatment run-in phase of the trial with administration of a PDE5I drug, mean serum testosterone levels improved to above the enrollment criterion of 330 mg/dL in both the placebo and testosterone treatment arms ( 103 ). The mechanism of the testosterone increase during the run-in in these cohorts is unclear but complicates interpretation of these data. PDE-5 INHIBITORS AND CARDIOVASCULAR SAFETY There has been concern about the cardiovascular safety, but controlled and post-marketing studies of the four FDA-approved PDE5I have demonstrated no increase in myocardial infarction or death rates in either double-blind, placebo-controlled trials or open-label studies when compared with expected rates in the study populations. Patients with known coronary artery disease or heart failure receiving PDE5I did not exhibit worsening ischemia, coronary vasoconstriction, or worsening hemodynamics on exercise testing or cardiac catheterization ( 43 ). Sexual activity, regardless of PDE5I use, has been associated with incremental increase in risk of cardiac events, an effect that is attenuated in patients who regularly engage in physical exertion.( 104 ) An ability to perform exertion equivalent to 3-4 metabolic equivalents (METS) is consistent with cardiac reserve sufficient for most sexual activity; demands of up to 6 METs may be required for more exertional sex ( 105 ). The vasodilator effects of PDE5 inhibitors may be more marked in patients with hypertension or coronary artery disease. As with all vasodilators, caution is advised in certain conditions: aortic stenosis, left ventricular outflow obstruction, hypotension, and hypovolemia ( 43 ). Caution is advised when an alpha-blocker and a PDE-5 inhibitor are taken within a close time frame, as a drug interaction can lead to excessive vasodilation and hypotension ( 106 ). Nitrates are absolutely contraindicated in patients taking PDE5I ( table 5 ) ( 1 ). These include organic nitrates, including sublingual nitroglycerin, isosorbide mononitrate, isosorbide dinitrate and other nitrate preparations used to treat angina, as well as amyl nitrite or amyl nitrate (so-called “poppers,” a recreational drug). Past use of nitrates, e.g., more than two weeks before the use of PDE5I, is not considered a contraindication. Patients who develop angina during sexual activity with
