Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


a recreational drug). Past use of nitrates, e.g., more than two weeks before the use of PDE5I, is not considered a contraindication. Patients who develop angina during sexual activity with a PDE5I or any ED medical therapy should be instructed to discontinue sexual activity and consider seeking emergency medical care. The patient should inform emergency medical personnel that a PDE5I was taken. Sublingual nitroglycerin should not be taken in this context as this may lead to serious hypotension. Table 5. Recommendations for PDE5I in Men With Cardiac Disease* View in own window 1. Men using nitrate drugs should not use PDE5I. If a man develops angina and has taken a PDE5I he should present to the ER rather than taking a short acting nitrate drug (e.g., nitroglycerin). 2. Men with stable coronary disease not needing nitrates on a consistent basis may take PDE5I if the risks of the medication have been carefully discussed with the patients by their physician. If the patient routinely requires nitrates for mild or moderate exercise induced angina, PDE5I should not be prescribed. 3. All men taking an organic nitrate (including recreational amyl nitrate) should be informed about the nitrate/PDE5I hypotensive interaction. 4. Men must be warned of the danger of taking PDE5I in the 24-hour period before or after taking a nitrate preparation. 5. Pre-PDE5I stress testing may be indicated in some men with cardiac disease to assess the risk of cardiac ischemia during sexual intercourse. 6. Initial monitoring of blood pressure after taking PDE5I may be indicated in: men with congestive heart failure who have borderline low blood pressure and low volume status; and men being treated with a complicated, multidrug antihypertensive regimen. * Adapted from materials provided by the Princeton III Consensus Conference ( 43 ) Other Treatments of Erectile Dysfunction In patients for whom PDE5I or are contraindicated, alternative management options include the vacuum constriction device (VCD), trans-urethral suppositories (MUSE®), and intra-cavernous injection (ICI) therapy ( 1 ). VACUUM CONSTRICTION DEVICES (VCD) VCD produces erection via vacuum suctioning of venous blood into the corporal spaces. Blood is subsequently trapped with a constriction device placed at the base of the phallus. Its potential side effects include discomfort, petechiae, numbness, and interference with ejaculation ( 1 ). The erection induced by the VCD is based on trapping of venous blood and therefore the erection may be colder and less firm than natural erections. Some
