Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


( 1 ). The erection induced by the VCD is based on trapping of venous blood and therefore the erection may be colder and less firm than natural erections. Some men also experience pain and/or difficulty with operating the device. No constrictive device should be left on the penis for more than 60 minutes and the device should be promptly removed if there are signs of numbness or ischemia. MUSE® The Medicated Urethral Suppository for Erections (MUSE®) is a transurethral prostaglandin suppository that has several advantages including local application, minimal systemic effects, and the rarity of drug interaction. However, this type of secondary treatment has failed to gain popularity due to its major drawbacks including moderate to severe penile pain, low response rate, and inconsistent efficacy ( 107 ) It has been extensively studied in Europe and the United States and was found to be effective in 43 percent of men with erectile dysfunction of various organic causes. The most common side effects were penile pain (32 percent) and urethral pain or burning (12 percent) ( 108 ). Using an adjustable constriction device placed at the base of the penis after MUSE® administration resulted in an increase in successful sexual intercourse in 69 percent of men ( 109 ). The standard starting dose for MUSE® is 500-μg dosed in the office. Depending on the patient's response, this dose can be titrated from 250-1000 μg. It is important to administer the test dose in the office due to the risks of urethral bleeding, vasovagal reflex, hypotension, and priapism that can occur with this medication. There is a theoretical risk of prostaglandin transfer during vaginal intercourse after use of MUSE®; for this reason, MUSE® should not be used to facilitate vaginal intercourse in a partner who is pregnant. INTRACAVERNOUS MEDICATIONS There are several intracavernous medications available for the treatment of ED including papaverine, prostaglandin E1 (PgE1), and phentolamine ( 1 , 110 ). These medications are commonly utilized in combinations which yield superior results and lower risk profiles due to synergistic properties between drugs. Of these, prostaglandin E1 is the only drug that is FDA approved as a single agent monotherapy injection for ED. The most common intracavernosal therapies used in the U.S. are two or three-drug mixtures containing papaverine, phentolamine and/or alprostadil (typically known as Bimix if contains the first two or Trimix if it contains all three) in varying concentrations.
