Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


U.S. are two or three-drug mixtures containing papaverine, phentolamine and/or alprostadil (typically known as Bimix if contains the first two or Trimix if it contains all three) in varying concentrations. Some experts utilize atropine for injection-based ED therapy, which is compounded with trimix to form so called quadmix. The usual dose of mixed solution ranges from 0.1 to 0.5 ml. These solutions have demonstrated efficacy and have been in clinical use for almost four decades. Due to risk of priapism or needle injury, men must receive appropriate training and education by medical personnel before beginning injection therapy for ED. The goal is to achieve an erection that is adequate for sexual intercourse but does not last for more than four hours. The two major side effects of intracavernous injection are priapism and fibrosis (penile deviation, nodules or plaque). Priapism is typically preventable through careful dose titration. Post-injection compression is recommended to reduce the likelihood of bleeding or bruising. In the U.S., the only FDA approved intracavernosal drug for ED is PgE1 (i.e., trade names Edex® and Caverject®). PgE1 results in erections usable for intercourse in more than 70 percent of treated men after appropriate dose titration ( 110 ). The usual dose ranges from 5 to 40 μg as a monotherapy. The most frequent side effect is painful erections that occur in 17 to 34 percent of men ( 110 , 111 ). This hyperalgesic effect is most prominent in men with partial nerve injury, such as those with diabetic neuropathy and those who have undergone radical pelvic surgery. PgE1 has been associated with risk for priapism and corporal fibrosis as well ( 112 , 113 ). Papaverine is a non-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitor that increases cAMP and cGMP concentrations in penile erectile tissue ( 114 ). It is usually dosed at 15 to 60 mg. Specific side effects from papaverine include priapism and corporal fibrosis. Phentolamine is a competitive alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist. It is used in combination with papaverine ( 115 , 116 ). Standard doses of phentolamine range from 0.5 to 3mg. The potential side effects of phentolamine include hypotension and reflex tachycardia. Although the response rate to injection therapy is high, in long-term studies 38 to 80 percent of men cease to use the treatment over time ( 117 ). To avoid the cumbersome nature of injection therapy, some men alternate injection therapy with sildenafil or MUSE®, preferring
