Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


of men cease to use the treatment over time ( 117 ). To avoid the cumbersome nature of injection therapy, some men alternate injection therapy with sildenafil or MUSE®, preferring injection in circumstances when an erection of longer duration is desired. Alternatively, in men whom injection therapy alone fails or is insufficient, combination of injections with PDE5I has been utilized in some settings ( 118 ). The risk of priapism is magnified in these cases so this option should be considered only in men with severe ED who require intensive stimulation to induce erection response. OTHER DRUGS Yohimbine (alpha 2-adrenetric receptor antagonist) ( 119 ), apomorphine (dopaminergic agonist) ( 120 ), and bremelanotide (a melanocortin analog) ( 121 ) have been investigated for ED but are not currently accepted standard treatments for ED ( 1 ). SURGICAL MANAGEMENT OF ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION Surgery is indicated for the management of ED refractory to medical management. One of the earliest contemporary surgical approaches to ED was described by Wooten in 1902, who recommended ligation of the dorsal vein of the penis as a means for restoring erections ( 122 ) . The superficially placed rigid prosthesis made from synthetic material soon followed ( 123 ). These early prostheses tended to shift under the penile skin and were generally unsatisfactory. Truly modern penile prostheses originated in the early 1970s; these devices were revolutionary in that they were designed to be placed within the corpora cavernosa. Although early models had substantial limitations, these devices were the first penile prosthetics to provide acceptable functional and cosmetic results ( 124 , 125 ). Penile arterial bypass surgery was also first reported as a treatment for ED in the 1970s ( 126 ). Venous surgery for ED was re-introduced with modifications in the early 1980s to treat corporal veno-occlusive dysfunction ( 127 ). While penile prosthetic devices are generally effective for a wide range of patients, vascular surgery (both arterial and venous) for ED has been effective only in very select patients, typically healthy young men with either congenital or traumatic ED. The 2018 AUA Guidelines on Erectile Dysfunction recommend against venous surgery for ED and recommend arterial revascularization only in highly select patients in centers of excellence ( 1 ). Penile prosthesis placement is the standard surgical treatment for ED. Arterial Revascularization Arterial revascularization offers patients the possibility of restoration of normal erectile function without the necessity
