Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


( 1 ). Penile prosthesis placement is the standard surgical treatment for ED. Arterial Revascularization Arterial revascularization offers patients the possibility of restoration of normal erectile function without the necessity of medications, injections or devices. Penile arterial bypass surgery was first described in the early 1970s ( 126 ) and has undergone many modifications since its early description ( 128 ). Penile arterial insufficiency is most frequently the result of general arteriosclerosis associated with medical conditions such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, cigarette smoking, and diabetes mellitus. In patients with arterial insufficiency from these entities, penile revascularization is unlikely to be of benefit as penile small vessel disease is likely to be present. Healthy young men with traumatic disruption of a discrete segment of the penile vasculature are the population who has the greatest chance of benefit from penile arterial revascularization ( 1 , 128 ). Penile arterial insufficiency is diagnosed by performing an intracavernous injection test followed by self-stimulation (audiovisual or manual). Duplex ultrasonography of the penis performed during injection and stimulation test can help delineate echogenicity of corporal tissues, peak flow velocity of cavernosal arteries, thickness of tunica albuginea and cavernosal arteries, diameter and wave form of arteries. If arterial insufficiency is confirmed, selective penile/pudendal arteriogram is necessary to identify penile vascular anatomy, demonstrate communication between cavernosal and dorsal arteries and confirm location of obstructive/traumatized arterial lesion ( 129 ). Several techniques of revascularization have been described ( 128 ). Anastomosis of the epigastric artery to the dorsal penile artery (revascularization) or the deep dorsal vein (arterialization) is a common approach. Long term results in these patients are highly variable. Careful selection and refinements in technique can improve success rates. Young men with arterial insufficiency secondary to pelvic trauma are the ideal patients for this procedure ( 128 ). The most frequent side effect with penile arterialization is glans hyperemia. This can occur in up to 13% of patients who have undergone epigastric artery-deep dorsal vein anastomosis. Other potential complications include infection, hematoma and thrombosis of anastomosis. Venous Surgery Venogenic dysfunction is often suspected during evaluation by the finding of a sub-optimal erectile response to intracavernosal injection despite a normal arterial response on duplex Doppler sonography ( 129 ). The presence of persistent end-diastolic flow of greater than 5 cm/sec on duplex sonography may signify venous leak ED. Appropriate conduct of duplex sonography requires repeat dosing of erectogenic agents; this
