Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


presence of persistent end-diastolic flow of greater than 5 cm/sec on duplex sonography may signify venous leak ED. Appropriate conduct of duplex sonography requires repeat dosing of erectogenic agents; this is omitted by some practitioners and may contribute to a false positive finding of venous leak in a patient who would have a normal response to repeat dosing ( 129 ). The gold standard confirmatory test for the diagnosis of venous leak ED is dynamic infusion cavernosometry and cavernosography (DICC). Cavernosometry and cavernosography can be used to document the severity of venous leakage as well as visualize the sites of leakage ( 130 ). Like duplex Doppler ultrasound of the penis, these procedures require administration of an erectogenic agent. An abnormal cavernosometry result is 1) an intracavernosal infusion rate of greater than 10cc/minute of saline to maintain the erection or 2) a drop of intracavernosal pressure of greater than 50 mmHg within 30 seconds of terminating the saline infusion ( 131 , 132 ). An abnormal cavernosogram (performed immediately after cavernosometry) shows visualization of penile veins or venous leakage from the crura on films taken immediately after intracavernous injection of diluted contrast. As venous surgery for ED is no longer a recommended standard of care, these tests are primarily of historical interest outside of a clinical trial setting. Prosthetic Surgery When there is lack of efficacy or dissatisfaction with medical management of ED, penile prosthesis placement is the procedure of choice for restoration of penile rigidity ( 48 ). Penile prosthesis surgery is irreversible in that corporal tissue is permanently altered such that physiologic erections are no longer possible. Contemporary prostheses include two or three- piece hydraulic pumps and semi-rigid/malleable rods. Most malleable prostheses are made of silicone rubber with a central intertwined metallic core. The advantages of malleable devices are that they are easy to implant, easy to operate, and have few mechanical parts with minimal risk for mechanical failure. The major disadvantage of the semi-rigid devices is that the penis is never fully rigid nor fully flaccid. These devices may interfere with urination, are difficult to conceal, and have a higher likelihood of device erosion. Malleable prosthesis is most commonly utilized in resource poor settings or for patients who want a device of minimal complexity ( 48 , 133 ). Examples of malleable prostheses are presented in Figures 4 and 5 . Figure 4. Genesis® from Coloplast Figure
