Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


who want a device of minimal complexity ( 48 , 133 ). Examples of malleable prostheses are presented in Figures 4 and 5 . Figure 4. Genesis® from Coloplast Figure 5. Spectra™ from Boston Scientific Two-piece inflatable prostheses consist of a pair of cylinders attached to a scrotal pump. The reservoir is in the proximal portion of the cylinders. The prosthesis can be deflated by bending the penis at mid-shaft. While these devices permit some appearance of flaccidity, the lack of a separate reservoir does limit the amount of detumescence that can be attained. These devices represent a compromise between ease of use/placement and potential for expansion ( 48 ). A two-piece penile prosthesis is shown in Figure 6 . Figure 6. Ambicor™ Two-piece Prosthesis from Boston Scientific Three-piece inflatable prostheses are the gold standard for treatment of medically refractory ED. These devices consist of paired penile cylinders, a scrotal pump, and a reservoir for saline that is placed in the suprapubic space or posterior to the rectus fascia. Three-piece prostheses provide excellent rigidity when erect and a more natural appearance when flaccid. When fully erect, they are as rigid as the two-piece device. In the flaccid state, they surpass flaccidity of two-piece prostheses ( 48 ). Hydraulic three-piece penile implants account for about 85% of the US market. Examples of three-piece penile prosthesis are presented in Figures 7 and 8 . Figure 7. AMS 700™ Three-piece Prosthesis from Boston Scientific Figure 8. Titan® Three-piece Prosthesis from Coloplast Prostheses have very high satisfaction rates (>90%) in management of ED and modern prosthetics are very durable with mean lifespans of 10-15 years ( 134 , 135 ). This high satisfaction rate is likely due to the capacity of prostheses to allow for spontaneous and repeated reliable erections without external medications or devices. However, men willing to undergo implantation of a penile prosthetic are a self-selecting group and may not be representative of the general male population with ED. Infection remains the most devastating and feared complication of penile implant surgery. Modern prostheses allow for antibiotic impregnation and elution ( 136 ). In the setting of high volume surgeons, infection rates are less than 2% for first-time prosthesis ( 137 ). Although some studies suggest that elevated HbA1c levels may predict a higher rate of infections in diabetics having penile prosthesis surgery, more recent studies refute this. Elevated HbA1c may not be
