Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


some studies suggest that elevated HbA1c levels may predict a higher rate of infections in diabetics having penile prosthesis surgery, more recent studies refute this. Elevated HbA1c may not be a risk factor for infection but poor short-term blood sugar control (defined by morning fasting glucose levels >200 ng/ml) was associated with higher infection risk ( 138 ). Patients must be counseled that it may take a significant amount of time to become comfortable operating penile implants. Many men express dissatisfaction with penile length after prosthesis placement; careful counseling and setting reasonable expectations may help mitigate post-operative concerns. PRIAPISM Priapism is a prolonged penile erection in the absence of sexual stimulation. Two subtypes of priapism have been described; current nomenclature differentiates these as non-ischemic and ischemic ( 139 ). Non-Ischemic Priapism Non-ischemic (formerly known as high-flow) priapism, is relatively rare. In this scenario, injury to a cavernosal artery, usually after perineal or direct penile trauma, results in uncontrolled high arterial inflow within the corpora cavernosa. Non-ischemic priapism is typically painless and the penis only semi-erect. Patients with arterial priapism typically seek medical attention later than those with ischemic priapism, due to the fact that non-ischemic priapism causes less pain and discomfort ( 139 ). Non-ischemic priapism is not considered a medical emergency. In some series men have lived for many years with the condition ( 140 ). In such cases men obtain additional tumescence with sexual arousal. In the setting where treatment is desired, conservative management (e.g., observation, ice packs, etc.) may allow the injured cavernous artery to seal off and restore normal blood flow to the corporal bodies. Androgen blockade with ketoconazole or gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists have been reported as successful in management of non-ischemic priapism, possibly by reducing spontaneous erections and enabling healing of the fistula tract ( 141 ). In refractory cases, super selective arteriography allows for the exact determination of the site of injury and treatment through embolization ( 142 ). Surgical exploration and ligation of the fistula tract may also be considered by experienced surgeons. There is a risk of ED associated with aggressive treatment of high flow priapism, especially with the use of permanent embolic agents ( 143 ). Ischemic Priapism Ischemic (formerly known as low-flow) priapism is much more common and is characterized by inadequate venous outflow from the penis; this restricts arterial inflow and creates an acidotic hypoxic environment leading to a
