Medical and Surgical Therapy of Erectile Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, men, erectile, penile, dysfunction, testosterone, sexual, erectile dysfunction, patients, treatment, therapy, erection, priapism, journal, sildenafil


as low-flow) priapism is much more common and is characterized by inadequate venous outflow from the penis; this restricts arterial inflow and creates an acidotic hypoxic environment leading to a painful prolonged erection( 139 ). Ischemic priapism is accurately conceptualized as compartment syndrome of the penis. This more common type of priapism has become a well-recognized clinical entity because of the widespread use of intracavernous agents for erections. Ischemic priapism is also commonly associated with blood dyscrasias (e.g., sickle cell disease, thalassemia, leukemia), advanced pelvic malignancies, and medications such as trazodone ( 139 ). Ischemic priapism is a serious medical condition and can lead to permanent penile fibrosis and ED. When effectively treated early (within 6-12 hours of onset) little risk of permanent injury exists. Tissue injury is visible after 12 hours of ischemia, characterized as interstitial edema. Within 24 hours, there is destruction of the sinusoidal endothelium and adherence. Men with priapism of over 36 hours duration rarely if ever recover normal erectile function ( 139 , 144 ). Men using vasoactive drugs for penile self-injection should be instructed to seek medical attention if they experience an erection persisting longer than 3-4 hours. Aspiration of corporal blood via a large bore needle is the procedure of choice to facilitate detumescence in ischemic priapism that is not mediate by intracavernous injection therapy. ( 139 ). In most cases, aspiration is followed by installation of a sympathomimetic agent; the agent of choice for the treatment of ischemic priapism is phenylephrine at a dosage of 100-250 ug per mL. The sympathomimetic agent is injected into the cavernous body via the same needle in 2-5 minute intervals until the penis is no longer rigid. At this concentration, little impact on the systemic BP is seen in most men although blood pressure and heart rate should be monitored. The recent AUA Guideline on Priapism suggests that aspiration may be omitted and the clinician may proceed immediately to phenylephrine injection in the setting of priapism induced by erectogenic injections ( 139 ). The AUA priapism guideline does not recommend the use of over-the-counter remedies for priapism such as pseudoephedrine, terbutaline, exercise, or ice packs because these have marginal efficacy and may delay initiation of effective therapy. These remedies may be tried by patients, but patients should come promptly to a clinic or ER for definitive treatment ( 139 ). Detumescence often occurs with initial injection
