Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


ABSTRACT The adrenal gland in conjunction with the pituitary gland is one of the major components of the endocrine system and regulates blood volume, blood pressure, serum electrolytes, and stress responses. Dysfunction of the adrenal glands may be related to diseases of the adrenal glands or pituitary gland. Adrenal disorders may present either due to structural or functional abnormalities. In the tropical countries, adrenal insufficiency is primarily due to adrenal infection by tuberculosis, adrenal mycosis infections, and adrenal hemorrhages. HIV (Human immunodeficiency virus) related adrenal problems are also common. Adrenal dysfunction due to pituitary disorders still occur frequently in tropical region and include Sheehan’s syndrome, vasculotoxic snake bite, and thalassemia. Adrenal hormone excess typically occurs secondary to exogenous glucocorticoid use. Adrenal disorders that occur in the developed world occur with similar frequencies in tropical regions. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Adrenal glands are one of the major peripheral organs necessary for homeostasis including maintenance of blood volume, blood pressure, and serum electrolytes. Disorders of adrenal glands are common in clinical practice. Adrenal dysfunction in tropical countries often occurs due to specific etiologies that differ from the typical causes of adrenal dysfunctions that commonly occur in other parts of the world ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Classification of Adrenal Disease in the Tropics View in own window Adrenal insufficiency: Primary Adrenal Tuberculosis Adrenal Mycosis Adrenal Haemorrhage Secondary Sheehan’s Syndrome Vasculotoxic Snake Bite Thalassemia’s Both Primary and Secondary HIV Adrenal Hormone excess syndromes: Exogenous Glucocorticoid hormone excess syndromes Licorice induced syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess PRIMARY ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY The causes of primary adrenal insufficiency that are more frequent in tropical regions include infection of the adrenal glands by tuberculosis or mycotic infections. In addition, autoimmune Addison’s disease or adrenal failure as a component of polyglandular syndromes are equally prevalent in tropical regions as is in other parts of the world. Adrenal Gland Tuberculosis Adrenal gland tuberculosis or Tuberculous adrenalitis is the result of infection of adrenal gland by mycobacterium tuberculosis. The infection causes a destructive lesion of the adrenal cortex with uncertain chances of recovery and remains one of the most important causes of Addison’s disease in the tropical countries ( 1 ). In fact, the adrenal glands are the most common endocrine organs to be involved in tuberculosis ( 2 ). Adrenal gland tuberculosis occurs almost always
