Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


tropical countries ( 1 ). In fact, the adrenal glands are the most common endocrine organs to be involved in tuberculosis ( 2 ). Adrenal gland tuberculosis occurs almost always secondarily due to the hematogenous spread of the bacilli to the gland with the primary focus in lung. Adrenal failure or Addison’s disease clinically manifest when at least 90% of the gland has been destroyed ( 1 , 2 , 3 ). Though classically the adrenal cortex is involved, the medulla also may be involved in many cases of adrenal tuberculosis ( 3 , 4 ). PATHOPHYSIOLOGY It is interesting to know why the adrenal glands are susceptible to infections. In fact, adrenal gland infections are common in response to a distant infection elsewhere in the body and in disseminated infection. Autopsy examination revealed that the prevalence of adrenal tuberculosis is about 6% in patients with active tuberculosis ( 4 ). However, subclinical adrenal dysfunction may be present in about 60-70% of patients with active tuberculosis ( 5 ). In any of these situations, there is an exaggerated response of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis to produce excess cortisol in response to the stress of infection. This stress induced hypercortisolemia shifts the balance in the Th1/Th2 cell ratio towards a Th2 response ( 6 ). This T cell dysfunction (which is primarily responsible for cell mediated immunity) and low DHEA levels increases the host susceptibility to infection to mycobacterium tuberculosis and other organisms ( 6 ). Low DHEAS levels have been documented in tuberculosis ( 1 , 6 ). In addition, endotoxin released in response to the hyperactive HPA axis can cause pathological changes in the adrenal glands to increase the susceptibility to infection ( 7 ). The intrinsically rich vascularity of the adrenal glands promotes all of these pathophysiological events. Histopathologically, four classic patterns have been described in adrenal tuberculosis ( 3 ). These are: granuloma (caseating or non-caseating), enlargement of the gland with destruction by inflammatory granuloma, mass lesions due to cold abscesses, and adrenal atrophy due to fibrosis related to chronic infection. Caseating granuloma is the commonest one and this is identified in about 70% of cases ( 4 ). However, granuloma with typical presence of Langhan’s giant cell are less common and identified in less than 50% of cases ( 4 ), probably due to anti-inflammatory effects of local glucocorticoids. Calcification of the gland is a common but
