Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


are less common and identified in less than 50% of cases ( 4 ), probably due to anti-inflammatory effects of local glucocorticoids. Calcification of the gland is a common but it is present in other chronic infections of the adrenal glands ( 3 ). In about 25% cases the infection may be unilateral ( 1 ). PRESENTATION Typical symptoms of adrenal gland tuberculosis in a patient with diagnosed tuberculosis (whether or not on anti-tubercular chemotherapy) are mucocutaneous pigmentation in association with chronic ill health, vomiting, postural hypotension, and anorexia ( 3 ). The features are similar to Addison’s disease due to other conditions. As the features of progressively evolving adrenal hypofunction are mostly nonspecific, a high index of suspicion is necessary in subjects with diagnosed active tuberculosis especially when pigmentation is absent. However clinical manifestations may take months to years to become apparent. The patient may also present rarely with frank adrenal crisis with hypotension, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and low serum cortisol levels. The crisis may even be precipitated after administration of rifampicin which increases the hepatic metabolism of cortisol in the background of subclinical adrenal dysfunction ( 8 ). Adrenal tuberculosis may also present as an adrenal incidentaloma. Nonspecific abdominal pain, weight loss, dizziness, and vomiting may lead to imaging of the abdomen which may reveal an incidental adrenal mass often with calcification. The differential diagnosis of Addison’s disease with adrenal enlargement includes (apart from tuberculosis) malignancy, fungal infections, hemorrhage, amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, etc. ( 3 ). Subclinical adrenal dysfunction is also very common and should be actively sought in all cases of active tuberculosis ( 5 ). INVESTIGATIONS Laboratory Studies Common laboratory findings include anemia, hyponatremia, and hyperkalemia. In the presence of a positive Mantoux test in association with typical clinical manifestations of adrenal hypofunction, adrenal tuberculosis must be ruled out. Adrenal insufficiency should be ruled out by using a standard protocol. Serum cortisol levels <5 µg/dL and a plasma ACTH more than 2-fold the upper limit of the reference range is suggestive of primary adrenal insufficiency ( 9 ). The serum cortisol may remain in the low-normal to mid-normal range in many cases. However, a standard dose (250 µg) intravenous cosyntropin (Synacthen) stimulation test establishes the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency when the peak level of cortisol remains below 18 µg/d ( 9 ). Random cortisol levels, though useful during an acute crisis, is not usually sufficient to rule out
