Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


insufficiency when the peak level of cortisol remains below 18 µg/d ( 9 ). Random cortisol levels, though useful during an acute crisis, is not usually sufficient to rule out adrenal insufficiency ( 9 ). Documentation of subclinical adrenal dysfunction may reveal mineralocorticoid deficiency alone (as demonstrated by raised plasma rennin activity) when stimulated cortisol is within the normal range ( 8 ). Imaging of Adrenal Glands CT scan of the abdomen is the most important non-invasive investigation with a very good spatial resolution to diagnose adrenal tuberculosis. The findings are usually bilateral and vary with the duration of the disease before diagnosis ( 1 , 3 ). The most common early findings during the initial 2 years include a mass lesion with smooth adrenal contour preserved. The glands may show central or patchy hypodensity corresponding to areas of caseous necrosis ( 3 ). On contrast administration there is peripheral rim enhancement. Calcification is not a common feature in early tuberculosis ( 3 ). With chronic infection, the adrenal glands become small and shrunken, often with associated calcifications and the margins become irregular ( 3 ). Though prevalence and intensity of calcification increases with the duration of tuberculosis, this is not a specific finding and may be associated with other conditions. Though MRI is also done in many cases, this imaging modality has limitations to assess calcification. However, T1 weighted image shows hypointense or isointense areas and T2 weighted image shows hyperintense areas because of necrosis ( 3 ). Percutaneous FNA/ TB PCR For confirmation of adrenal tuberculosis tissue diagnosis is required. CT scan guided fine needle aspiration from the adrenal gland is necessary to obtain adequate tissue specimens ( 3 , 10 ). Pathological and microbiological confirmation is necessary, especially where there is isolated adrenal involvement. However, it should be remembered that PCR and culture of these specimens for tuberculosis bacilli are not consistently positive ( 3 ). Hence a combination of histopathology, PCR, and culture may be necessary to confirm the diagnosis ( 3 ). However, routine search for pulmonary tuberculosis with necessary investigations is mandatory. TREATMENT Treatment of adrenal insufficiency in tuberculosis requires administration of both glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. As the medulla is frequently involved, patients may require higher doses for maintenance of blood pressure. At the same time, rifampicin used in the anti-tubercular regimen is a potent hepatic enzyme inducer and accelerates cortisol metabolism. This also
