Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


require higher doses for maintenance of blood pressure. At the same time, rifampicin used in the anti-tubercular regimen is a potent hepatic enzyme inducer and accelerates cortisol metabolism. This also may necessitate a higher dose of glucocorticoids for adequate treatment. However, aldosterone is less likely to be involved. Adrenal crisis is also reported to occur following the administration of rifampicin ( 11 ). Therapy is monitored with blood pressure, body weight, well-being, serum electrolytes and blood glucose. Patients should be also be monitored for over treatment with glucocorticoids with weight gain, blood pressure, decreasing bone mineral density, and other manifestations of Cushing’s syndrome. All subjects should carry a ‘steroid card’ and should be advised strictly on how to increase the dose of glucocorticoid in stressful situations such as fever, infection, vomiting, trauma, etc. PROGNOSIS FOR ADRENAL FUNCTION RECOVERY Chances of adrenal recovery with anti-tuberculosis therapy are uncertain and unpredictable. When the disease is diagnosed late, the glandular destruction is usually significant and the gland becomes atrophic, and anti-tuberculosis therapy does not lead to a recovery of adrenal function ( 12 , 13 ). If therapy is started early before the gland is destroyed recovery may occur ( 14 , 15 ). It is also suggested that if the gland size remains the same on subsequent follow up CT scans, it is prudent to follow up the patient for adrenal function recovery. Adrenal Mycosis HISTOPLASMOSIS Adrenal Histoplasmosis caused by the dimorphic fungus Histoplasma capsulatum, is a recognized cause of adrenal insufficiency. Though this opportunistic pathogen is known to affect immunocompromised individuals predominantly ( 16 ), it can rarely infect immunocompetent individuals ( 16 , 17 ). This is the most fungal infection of the adrenal glands ( 16 , 18 ). Involvement of the adrenals can occur during disseminated infection or many years after disease resolution ( 18 ). Adrenal involvement can vary from an asymptomatic milder form to a very severe form that presents with extensive bilateral granulomatous involvement of the entire adrenal gland with calcified lesions culminating in acute adrenal insufficiency ( 18 , 19 ). Rarely the involvement can be unilateral ( 17 ). The common differential diagnosis includes tuberculosis, other fungal infections, adrenal metastasis, primary adrenal malignancy, and primary adrenal lymphoma ( 16 ). In immunocompetent individuals it commonly presents with a unilateral or bilateral adrenal mass with constitutional symptoms. The hypothesis for why histoplasmosis involves the
