Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


and primary adrenal lymphoma ( 16 ). In immunocompetent individuals it commonly presents with a unilateral or bilateral adrenal mass with constitutional symptoms. The hypothesis for why histoplasmosis involves the adrenal glands with increased frequency includes the local high levels of glucocorticoids in association with a relative paucity of reticulo-endothelial cells within the adrenal gland ( 6 ). The gland is destroyed by direct infection that leads to local ischemia and infarction due to perivasculitis, and caseation ( 6 ). Diagnosis depends on imaging studies with pathological confirmation. CT scan of the adrenal glands typically reveals symmetric enlargement with central hypodensity and characteristic peripheral rim like enhancement ( 20 ). Frequently calcification is also present, particularly during the healing phase ( 20 ). Percutaneous ultrasound or CT guided fine-needle aspiration or biopsy is necessary for tissue diagnosis ( 18 ). The characteristic cytopathological findings are the presence of numerous small oval yeast like structures inside the cytoplasm of macrophages ( 16 ). On a necrotic background, this yeast like structures inside the macrophages is surrounded by a clear ring of space resembling a capsule. However, the gold standard for diagnosis is documentation of the organism in the culture of pathological specimen ( 16 ). Bhansali et al reported a high uptake in adrenal glands in FDG-PET scan in patients with adrenal histoplasmosis ( 17 ). Treatment for adrenal histoplasmosis depends on the severity of the infection and the condition of the patient. For severe infection in critically ill patient’s amphotericin B is used initially followed by long-term therapy with oral itraconazole ( 16 ). Parenteral liposomal amphotericin B is given 3mg/kg body weight for 2 weeks ( 17 ). The duration of therapy with itraconazole varies from six months to two years depending on the patient’s condition. For mild to-moderate histoplasmosis, the recommended treatment is itraconazole. The recommended dose is 200 mg twice daily given for 12 months ( 16 ). When itraconazole is used, liver enzymes should be monitored on a regular basis ( 18 ). Treatment for adrenal insufficiency follows the same principles as described earlier. Though the remission rate from adrenal histoplasmosis is high with long-term oral itraconazole, adrenal insufficiency rarely resolves and reversal of adrenal dysfunction can be seen only in some patients after prolonged antifungal therapy ( 21 ). However, histoplasma in adrenals is reported to persist even 7 years after antifungal therapy ( 22
