Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


can be seen only in some patients after prolonged antifungal therapy ( 21 ). However, histoplasma in adrenals is reported to persist even 7 years after antifungal therapy ( 22 ). OTHER FUNGAL INFECTIONS Paracoccidioidomycosis Brasiliensis Paracoccidioidomycosis brasiliensis is a dimorphic fungus and can cause chronic, progressive, suppurative and granulomatous disease which can lead to adrenal insufficiency ( 3 ). The disease is endemic in Latin America. Humans are the accidental host for the organism and females are rarely affected ( 23 ). Smoking and alcohol increase the risk. The lungs are the usual portals of entry. Juvenile forms of the disease are also known ( 23 ). Apart from frank adrenal crisis, it can present as progressive constitutional symptoms, hyperpigmentation, and low blood pressure with postural drop and bilateral adrenal enlargement in imaging studies with frank adrenal calcification detected by CT scans ( 24 , 25 ). Histopathology with GMS stain shows multiple budding yeast with steering wheels appearance which is consistent with Paracoccidioides brasiliensis ( 24 ). However, confirmation of the organism by culture material is the gold standard for diagnosis. Serology for antibody detection is also useful in the diagnosis. Diagnosis and treatment of adrenal insufficiency is not different than described above for histoplasmosis. P. brasiliensis primarily causes adrenal destruction by embolic infection of small vessels by large fungal cells and granuloma formation ( 3 ). Subjects who receive early antifungals with itraconazole over a 1–2-year period may have a full recovery of adrenal function by preventing fungal embolism in adrenal gland vasculature and reducing ischemic necrotic destruction of the gland ( 3 ). Hence an early diagnosis is crucial for preventing the progression of adrenal dysfunction. However, persistence of high antibody titer against paracoccidioidomycosis at the end of treatment or during follow-up is a frequent finding in subjects with paracoccidioidomycosis. Blastomyces Dermatitidis Blastomyces dermatitidis is also a dimorphic fungus, which has a strong affinity for the adrenal gland for reasons described earlier. Overt adrenal insufficiency is less common and adrenal Blastomyces dermatitidis typically presents as bilateral adrenal incidentaloma during radiological investigations for other reasons ( 3 ). The portal of entry is through the lungs and when there is lymphohematogenous dissemination the disease spreads to other organs ( 26 ). In situations when it presents as adrenal insufficiency, the presentation, investigations, and management are similar to those described above. Diagnosis is by fine-needle aspiration guided by
