Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


organs ( 26 ). In situations when it presents as adrenal insufficiency, the presentation, investigations, and management are similar to those described above. Diagnosis is by fine-needle aspiration guided by ultrasound or CT scan followed by cytologic and histologic examinations. However, the gold standard is fungal culture showing thick-walled, broad-based budding yeast cells ( 27 ). Treatment is with long term oral itraconazole. In patients with severe manifestations initial treatment with liposomal amphotericin B for 2 weeks could be used. Cryptocoocus Neoformans Cryptocoocus neoformans is an encapsulated yeast-like fungus which infects primarily immunodeficient hosts, particularly subjects infected with HIV or lymphohematogenous malignancies ( 28 ). In immunocompromised hosts it usually affects the central nervous system and lungs. However immune-competent individuals may also suffer adrenal cryptococcosis ( 29 ). Adrenal dysfunction is uncommon until almost the whole of adrenal gland is infiltrated with C. neoformans and caseating granulomas. Cryptococcosis is diagnosed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the adrenal mass. The serum cryptococcal antigen titer is highly elevated. Treatment is with antifungal therapy with fluconazole and amphotericin B. Adrenal enlargement by Cryptococcus may be completely reversible without any abnormality after antifungal treatment ( 30 ). Cases not responsive to anti-fungal therapy have been reported to improve after unilateral or bilateral adrenalectomy ( 28 , 29 ). Miscellaneous Pneumocystis jirovecii (previously known P. carinii) occurs in individuals with advanced HIV due to defects in cell mediated immunity. Spread to other organs including the adrenal glands is also possible ( 3 ). Adrenal failure associated with coccidioidomycosis and rarely candidiasis has also been reported. Adrenal Hemorrhage; the Waterhouse Friderichsen Syndrome This is a condition in which patient presents with acute hypotension and shock due to adrenal insufficiency arising from acute adrenal hemorrhage. The syndrome is typically related to infection with Neisseria meningitides infection ( 3 ). However, this is also known to occur in septicemia due to infections with Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus spp, Haemophilus influenzae, Corynebacterium diphtheria, etc. ( 3 ). Hence this is more common in the tropical region. The condition is hypothesized to be due to interplay between endotoxemia and elevated ACTH. The adrenal gland is anatomically prone to hemorrhage as it has three separate arterial supplies and does not have proportional venous drainage ( 3 ). In endotoxemia, elevated ACTH increases the blood supply several fold in this compromised anatomical setting. At the same time increased adrenaline secretion in relation to
