Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


venous drainage ( 3 ). In endotoxemia, elevated ACTH increases the blood supply several fold in this compromised anatomical setting. At the same time increased adrenaline secretion in relation to stress leads to constriction of adrenal veins, which further increases this imbalance between arterial supply and venous drainage. Management includes immediate fluid replacement and parenteral glucocorticoids apart from the management of the underlying infection. SECONDARY ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY Adrenal insufficiency secondary to disorders of pituitary gland is also very common in developing countries in tropical regions. Secondary adrenal insufficiency caused by pituitary tumors and apoplexy, pituitary surgery, radiation therapy, hypophysitis, various genetic disorders, and withdrawal of exogenous steroids are equally common in tropical regions but certain other disorders like Sheehan’s syndrome, thalassemia, and vasculotoxic snake bite induced pituitary failure are more common in tropical regions. Sheehan’s Syndrome Sheehan’s syndrome consists of various degrees of pituitary insufficiency, which develops as a result of ischemic pituitary necrosis due to severe postpartum hemorrhage. The important pathogenetic/predisposing factors include a small sella, increased pituitary volume, vasospasm induced by postpartum hemorrhage, thrombosis, and probable pituitary autoimmunity ( 31 ). In developed countries there has been a drastic reduction in the incidence of Sheehan’s syndrome. This is primarily due to the remarkable improvement in obstetric care and availability of rapid blood transfusion. However, this remains as a major cause of hypopituitarism in the other parts of the world. CLINICAL FEATURES Most commonly the disorder presents as a lactation failure in the post-partum state and non-resumption of menses following child birth, which was complicated by massive post-partum hemorrhage leading to hypotension and shock. However, it may very rarely occur without massive bleeding or after normal delivery. Patients may present in the emergency with altered sensorium, loss of consciousness, seizure, shock, intractable vomiting, or more commonly with chronic complaints like asthenia and weakness, dizziness, anorexia, weight loss, nausea, and vomiting with a typical history of failure to resume menses and lactation failure following child birth ( 31 ). Apart from anterior pituitary hormone deficiency, symptoms like anemia, pancytopenia, osteoporosis, cognitive impairment, and poor quality of life are also present in these patients ( 31 , 32 ). Very rarely diabetes insipidus may occur. However, the mean age of the participants may be as late as 40 years or more and the mean interval between inciting event to diagnosis may be as high as 10 years or more ( 33
