Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


participants may be as late as 40 years or more and the mean interval between inciting event to diagnosis may be as high as 10 years or more ( 33 ). Adrenal insufficiency due to ACTH deficiency is reported to occur in up to 100% of cases (in fact deficiency of all anterior pituitary hormones occur in a variable percentage of patients and may be up to 100%) ( 32 ). Weakness, fatigue, and postural drop are common manifestations. Hyponatremia is particularly common in Sheehan’s syndrome, which may be due to glucocorticoids deficiency coupled with increased AVP release as a consequence of reduced blood pressure and cardiac output resulting from glucocorticoid deficiency ( 32 ). DIAGNOSIS The basal pituitary hormonal levels and those after dynamic tests are beyond the purview of this chapter. However adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed with a morning cortisol level of 3 mcg/dl with low or inappropriately normal ACTH or a cosyntropin stimulated cortisol level <18 mcg/dl. Documentation of growth hormone deficiency does not require a dynamic test in presence of other pituitary hormone deficiencies. Only low age specific and assay specific IGF-1 assay may be sufficient to document adult growth hormone deficiency (AGHD) ( 34 ). The preferred radiological imaging is an MRI of hypothalamic pituitary area. CT scan may also be helpful. MRI findings in Sheehan’s syndrome usually vary with the stages of the disease. In earlier stages of the disease there may be an enlarged pituitary gland with central hypodensity (suggestive of infarction). However, an empty sella (complete or partial) is considered to be a characteristic of Sheehan’s syndrome in established cases ( 32 ). TREATMENT The acute adrenal crisis in Sheehan’s syndrome is treated with intravenous glucocorticoids. In other patients’ glucocorticoids should be started orally with hydrocortisone 15-25 mg daily in 2-3 divided doses with the higher dose in the morning and a lower dose in the evening ( 35 ). Mineralocorticoids are not necessary in general ( 35 ). Once daily prednisolone may also be used at a dose of 2.5-5 mg once daily in the early morning. As GH deficiency decreases cortisol clearance, it may necessary to increase the dose of glucocorticoid for those who receive GH treatment ( 35 ). Therapy is monitored with blood pressure, body weight, well-being, serum electrolytes, and blood glucose. Patients should be also be monitored for an overdose of glucocorticoids with weight gain, blood pressure,
