Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


Therapy is monitored with blood pressure, body weight, well-being, serum electrolytes, and blood glucose. Patients should be also be monitored for an overdose of glucocorticoids with weight gain, blood pressure, decreased bone mineral density, and other symptoms and signs of Cushing’s syndrome. All subjects with Sheehan’s syndrome should carry a ‘steroid card’ and should be advised strictly on how to increase the dose of glucocorticoid in stressful situation such as fever, infection, vomiting, trauma, etc. Subjects with Sheehan’s syndrome should also be treated with levothyroxine, combined oral contraceptives according to guideline, calcium and vitamin D supplements, and growth hormone therapy (if possible) according to the protocol of adult growth hormone deficiency. Viscerotropic Snake Bite Snakebite is a major public health problem in tropical regions and is considered as one of the most neglected tropical diseases. The development of a Sheehan-like syndrome with chronic hypopituitarism following Russell viper envenomation is fairly common. Hypoadrenalism due to ACTH deficiency is the commonest abnormality ( 36 ). However acute hypopituitarism with predominant glucocorticoids deficiency has also been reported ( 37 ). The venom of vipers is vasculotoxic in nature and the clinical features of viper venomation include local cellulitis and tissue necrosis, bleeding manifestations, disseminated intravascular coagulation, shock, and acute kidney injury (AKI) ( 38 ). Hypopituitarism is particularly common following vasculotoxic snake bite in subjects who develop AKI requiring hemodialysis. Hypopituitarism can develop as early as 7 days following snake bites and should be evaluated for particularly in younger subjects, especially those requiring increasing number of sessions of hemodialysis and in subjects with abnormal 20 min WBCT (whole blood clotting test) at presentation ( 36 , 39 ). On the other hand, the time of onset/presentation of hypopituitarism following snake bite may be as long as up to 24 years ( 40 ). Acute hypopituitarism is thought to occur due to acute damage to the pituitary gland at the time of the precipitating event, but a gradual/slower progression of pituitary damage may occur over years due to other unknown mechanisms ( 36 ). Those who survive acute snake bite may later present with altered sensorium, loss of consciousness, seizure, shock, intractable vomiting, or more commonly with chronic complaints like asthenia and weakness, dizziness, anorexia, weight loss, nausea, vomiting and amenorrhea in females ( 36 ). Variable degrees of hypopituitarism may be present. Cortisol deficiency is reported to be the commonest abnormality. Secondary adrenal
