Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


anorexia, weight loss, nausea, vomiting and amenorrhea in females ( 36 ). Variable degrees of hypopituitarism may be present. Cortisol deficiency is reported to be the commonest abnormality. Secondary adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed with a morning cortisol level of 3 mcg/dl with low or inappropriately normal ACTH or a co-syntropin stimulated cortisol level <18 mcg/dl ( 36 ). Documentation of growth hormone deficiency is done as mentioned in section of Sheehan’s Syndrome ( 34 ). The preferred radiological imaging is the MRI of hypothalamic pituitary area which may show partial or complete empty sella or evidences of old hemorrhage. However, these changes are not present in all cases ( 41 ). Treatment of secondary adrenal insufficiency and other hormone deficiencies are similar to described above. All subjects with hypopituitarism on glucocorticoids supplements should carry a ‘steroid card’ and should be advised on how to increase the dose of glucocorticoid in stressful situation such as fever, infection, vomiting, trauma, etc. Thalassemia Major Thalassemia’s are inherited autosomal recessive disorders of hemoglobin synthesis. Thalassemia major is the most severe form of beta thalassemia which involves the beta chain of hemoglobin. Organ dysfunction in thalassemia is principally attributed to excessive iron overload and suboptimal chelation. The precise underlying mechanism of iron overload induced organ dysfunction is not very unclear. The current management of thalassemia includes regular transfusion programs and chelation therapy. Pre-marital counselling and assessment with HPLC to assess the asymptomatic carrier has reduced its prevalence significantly in the developed world. However, this is still a major problem in many parts of the world. Prevalence of adrenal insufficiency is variable and depends on the severity of iron overload. This secondary hemochromatosis can disrupt adrenal function by affecting the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis at the hypothalamic or pituitary level ( 42 ). In more severe cases primary adrenal failure may supervene due to iron deposition in the adrenal glands ( 42 ). Additionally, an extramedullary hematopoietic tumor has been reported in HbE thalassemia and beta thalassemia as non-hormone secretory unilateral or bilateral adrenal enlargement resembling adrenal myelolipoma ( 43 ). Biochemical adrenal insufficiency is reported to occur from 0% to 45% of subjects with thalassemia major ( 42 ), but adrenal crisis or clinical adrenal insufficiency is extremely uncommon and mostly they are asymptomatic. However, subclinical cortisol deficiency is not uncommon. In this context it should be remembered that mild symptoms of adrenal insufficiency like asthenia, weight
