Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


extremely uncommon and mostly they are asymptomatic. However, subclinical cortisol deficiency is not uncommon. In this context it should be remembered that mild symptoms of adrenal insufficiency like asthenia, weight loss, or postural drops are frequently overlooked as these features are common in thalassemia subjects with low levels of hemoglobin ( 42 ). The unique finding in subjects with thalassemia is the dissociation between adrenal androgen levels with cortisol and aldosterone levels. This paradox is reflected by frequent documentation of low serum DHEA, DHEA-sulfate, androstenedione, and testosterone levels in the presence of normal serum cortisol and aldosterone levels ( 44 ). Absence of adrenarche occurring in most adolescents with thalassemia major is probably explained by this phenomenon ( 45 ). Diagnosis of adrenal dysfunction in thalassemia is similar to other causes of secondary adrenal insufficiency. If the morning cortisol is not unequivocally low, synacthen stimulation test should be done with either the low dose (1 µg) or the standard high dose (250 µg). A peak cortisol level of >18 µg/dL after 30-60 min of intravenous synacthen excludes adrenal insufficiency. Alternately an insulin tolerance test with a similar cut-off may also be done. Treatment of clinical adrenal insufficiency is similar to that described above. Subjects with subclinical adrenal insufficiency require only steroid coverage during periods of stress. HIV AND ADRENAL DYSFUNCTION Endocrine manifestations of HIV infection may include adrenal dysfunction, hypothyroidism, hypogonadism, insulin resistance and diabetes etc. Changes in the HPA (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal) axis are the most frequent abnormality ( 46 ). Adrenal dysfunction in HIV infection may be a consequence of concomitant systemic illness, opportunistic infections, and neoplasm ( 47 ). Probably the most frequent adrenal abnormality is a stress induced elevation in serum cortisol and ACTH ( 46 ). This may be due to activation of the HPA axis due to HIV infection itself or pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α) ( 46 ). Alternately a peripheral increase in the conversion of cortisone to cortisol due to activation of 11-β HSD type 1 in adipose tissue or decrease in cortisol metabolism may be responsible for increased cortisol with subnormal ACTH ( 46 ). Tissue hypersensitivity to glucocorticoids is also reported in subjects with HIV-1 infection, which may result in hippocampal atrophy, altered secretion of cytokine/interleukins, etc. ( 48 ). On the other hand, subclinical or clinical adrenal dysfunction can happen in about 10-20% of subjects with advanced disease and
