Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


hippocampal atrophy, altered secretion of cytokine/interleukins, etc. ( 48 ). On the other hand, subclinical or clinical adrenal dysfunction can happen in about 10-20% of subjects with advanced disease and multiple co-morbidities when about 80-90% of the gland is destroyed ( 46 ). The involvement and destruction by HIV, opportunistic infections, or malignancies in the adrenal glands or the hypothalamus and/or pituitary area can result in either primary or secondary adrenal sufficiency ( 47 ). The opportunistic infections include cytomegalovirus (CMV), Mycobacterium avium-intracellular and M. tuberculosis, fungal infections (such as Histoplasma, Cryptococcus, and Pneumocystis jirovecii ), and Toxoplasma gondii ( 47 ). Of these opportunistic infections, CMV infection is known to be the commonest etiology with earlier literature reporting Cytomegalovirus adrenalitis in nearly 80% of cases of HIV infection ( 46 ). However, due to improvements in active management of HIV by HAART (highly active anti- retroviral therapy), the prevalence of adrenal insufficiency has decreased over the last two decades. Medications used for the treatment of HIV infection and its complication may also result in adrenal dysfunction. For example: Rifampicin used for mycobacterial infection is a known hepatic Cytochrome P 450 (CYP) enzyme inducer and can lower serum cortisol levels by enhanced cortisol metabolism. Ketoconazole used to treat severe mycotic infections inhibits adrenal steroid synthesis and can lead to glucocorticoid deficiency or even adrenal crisis in patients with impaired adrenal reserve ( 49 ). Interestingly, ART-related lipodystrophy (dorsocervical fat pad enlargement and visceral adiposity) may mimic Cushing’s syndrome but it is typically not associated with hypercortisolism ( 49 ). On the contrary, some protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) used in ART are reported to decrease metabolism of endogenous and exogenously co-administered glucocorticoids, resulting in an iatrogenic Cushing's syndrome. Tumors of the adrenal gland in HIV infected patients include Kaposi’s sarcoma and high-grade non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Kaposi’s sarcoma is secondary to co-infection with the oncogenic human herpes virus type 8 (HHV8) and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma could be secondary to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Assessment for symptoms of adrenal involvement requires a high degree of suspicion as constitutional symptoms of HIV may mask the features of adrenal insufficiency. Morning serum cortisol should be done in all cases suspected for adrenal dysfunction. Stress induced hypercortisolemia does not require any further testing and low serum cortisol <5 μg/dl with an elevated ACTH level requires treatment with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. In other cases, synthacthen stimulated cortisol is used to
