Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


require any further testing and low serum cortisol <5 μg/dl with an elevated ACTH level requires treatment with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. In other cases, synthacthen stimulated cortisol is used to determine the course of treatment. Stimulated cortisol <18 μg/dl, especially if associated with elevated plasma ACTH, should be treated as adrenal insufficiency. Asymptomatic subjects with stimulated serum cortisol <18 μg/dl should be advised to take stress doses of glucocorticoids only as mentioned before. Diagnosis and management of adrenal disorders in a patient with HIV infection does not differ from that in immunocompetent persons in general. ADRENAL HORMONE EXCESS SYNDROMES Glucocorticoid Excess Syndromes The primary cause of Cushing’s syndrome, more common in tropical regions, is exogenous glucocorticoids. The background etiology for exogenous steroid usage includes: nephrotic syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis and other collagen vascular disease, bronchial asthma, Graves’ orbitopathy, etc. Glucocorticoids used as inhalational agent for bronchial asthma, in creams and ointments for eczematous skin lesions may also be responsible. Endogenous steroid excess (Cushing’s disease, ectopic ACTH syndromes, adrenal tumors) are equally common in tropical regions as in other areas of the world. Often it is a challenge to suspect exogenous glucocorticoid use based on the patient’s history, especially in situations when glucocorticoids were not being used for a therapeutic purpose. Subjects presenting with features suggestive of Cushing’s syndrome should therefore mandatorily undergo testing for basal morning cortisol (with paired ACTH if possible) to rule out exogenous glucocorticoid use. A suppressed morning cortisol and plasma ACTH strongly suggests the diagnosis ( 50 ). One important caveat is that prednisolone may cross react with some cortisol assays giving false positive results in some chemiluminescent assay ( 51 ). Additionally, if the patient is receiving hydrocortisone, the result will also be fallacious to interpret. It is not uncommon in tropical regions that some form of glucocorticoids is being used in disguise as an alternative medicine for joint pain, respiratory problems, fever, or even as a weight gain therapy for young lean subjects. Hence a more detailed evaluation of the history with leading questions and scrutiny of all past records of medicine, including that of the alternative medicines, may sometimes reveal the offending agent. The clinical features that suggest exogenous Cushing’s syndrome are lack of pigmentation and the absence of hypertension and hirsutism (as exogenous Cushing’s syndrome does not contain mineralocorticoids and androgens as opposed to endogenous Cushing’s syndrome). Patients with exogenous Cushing’s syndrome are
