Adrenal Disorders in the Tropics
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, cortisol, pubmed crossref, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, syndrome, infection, gland, free, article, pituitary, free article


pigmentation and the absence of hypertension and hirsutism (as exogenous Cushing’s syndrome does not contain mineralocorticoids and androgens as opposed to endogenous Cushing’s syndrome). Patients with exogenous Cushing’s syndrome are prone to develop glaucoma, osteoporosis, psychiatric disturbances, etc. ( 50 ). Once diagnosed, these subjects should be advised to withdraw the offending agents and should be given hydrocortisone in the lowest possible dose for preventing adrenal crisis. The withdrawal of hydrocortisone subsequently after 3 months depends on the morning cortisol, after stopping the previous evening dose and subjecting the patient to short synacthen test to assess the recovery of HPA axis. Those with morning cortisol between 5 -18 µ/dl should be advised stress coverage only. For bone protection, all subjects with exogenous Cushing’s syndrome should receive bisphosphonate therapy unless contraindicated ( 52 ). Adequate calcium supplements with cholecalciferol should also be used. For subjects receiving glucocorticoids for therapeutic purpose, it is essential to maintain bone protection, check for secondary diabetes and hypertension, and prevent gastric ulceration. Withdrawal (if at all possible) should be performed very slowly. When the therapeutic steroid reaches the lowest possible dose to prevent crisis, it is converted to equivalent dose of hydrocortisone and the same principle is used as described before. Licorice Induced Syndrome Of Apparent Mineralocorticoid Excess Licorice root extracts are used as a herbal medicine for several conditions like cough, peptic ulceration, etc. Licorice is also used as a sweetener and mouth freshener particularly in tropical regions ( 53 ). Licorice possesses some glucocorticoid activity, antiandrogen effect, estrogenic activity, and mineralocorticoid like activity. Subjects consuming excessive licorice may develop hypertension and hypokalemia ( 53 ). Sometimes this is severe enough to cause a cardiac arrhythmia. While screening for primary aldosteronism for subjects presenting with hypertension and hypokalemia, plasma aldosterone and plasma rennin activity are found to be suppressed in patients using licorice ( 53 ). The active ingredient of liquorice is glycyrrhizic acid, which is hydrolyzed into glycyrrhetinic acid in vivo. Glycyrrhetinic acid has a very low affinity for the mineralocorticoid receptor but is a potent competitive inhibitor of the enzyme 11β-HSD type 2 which is preferentially expressed in kidney ( 54 ). Hence it may cause acquired 11β-HSD type 2 deficiency. The physiological role of the enzyme 11β-HSD type 2 is to inactivate cortisol to cortisone and thereby preventing access of cortisol to mineralocorticoid receptor. Cortisol and aldosterone have equipotent stimulating activity on
