American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: spatial, tissue, mucosal, hiv, immune, epithelial, transcriptomics, analysis, data, infection, genital, spatial transcriptomics, approaches, tissues, imaging


to investigate pro- further support post-procedure compliance and financial reim- cesses that are specific to human infection, host defense, and bursement can be framed not as coercion but as fair compensation therapeutic response. for income lost due to required abstinence. Collaborative efforts with local clinicians and peer educators can further strengthen Recent technological advances have transformed the field of trust and ensure cultural sensitivity. human mucosal immunity and spatial biology of HIV infection . High-dimensional approaches such as spatial transcrip- From a methodological perspective, two ectocervical punch tomics, spatially resolved proteomics (e.g., multiplex immunoflu- biopsies of approximately 2–3 mm, paired with cervicovaginal orescence imaging), single-cell RNA sequencing, and live-cell secretion samples, are typically sufficient to support multi-omics imaging combined with functional assays now permit detailed analyses of gene and protein expression. For transcriptomic analysis of tissue microenvironments. When applied to the studies, one biopsy specimen should immediately be placed upper female genital tract, spatial transcriptomic profiling of the in RNA-preserving medium. The second biopsy may be snap- human fallopian tube epithelium has revealed spatially regulated frozen or fixed in formaldehyde, depending on plans for imaging gene expression patterns with important implications for female or proteomic applications. These collection practices adhere to reproductive health . These spatial omics approaches are also standard clinical procedures for cervical dysplasia screening. particularly valuable for studying the lower female genital tract Vaginal biopsies usually require local anesthesia but otherwise mucosa, which is composed of the vulva, vagina and ectocervix. follow a similar approach. Each of these compartments are defined by distinct epithelial The methods can generate integrative datasets that capture 2.2 Ethical Considerations in Spatially Resolved cellular diversity and spatial context with precision unattainable High-Dimensional Data by conventional histology or bulk analyses. In this review, we describe the application of multiplex imaging and spatial tran- The advent of spatial omics methods has enabled close exam- scriptomics to ex vivo ectocervical tissues obtained from women ination of tissue architecture and molecular dynamics . with established HIV infection, as well as individuals with ele- However, application of these approaches to ex vivo genital vated risk. Through these examples, we emphasize both the novel tract samples could introduce ethical challenges because spatial insights yielded and the broader promise of such approaches information can inadvertently capture unique anatomical or for elucidating host-pathogen interactions and maintenance of pathological features. Unlike bulk omics, the resolution of spatial mucosal barrier function in
