American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: spatial, tissue, mucosal, hiv, immune, epithelial, transcriptomics, analysis, data, infection, genital, spatial transcriptomics, approaches, tissues, imaging


Scarce. This Imbalance Restricts methodology for spatially resolved transcriptomics , later Comparative Investigations Across Physiological and Patholog- commercialized as Visium by 10x Genomics. This innovation ical States, Anatomical Regions, and Demographic Groups. It enabled gene expression to be quantified directly in intact tissue Also Limits Progress in Modeling Mucosal Barrier Function, Host sections, linking molecular information with histological struc- Defense, and Susceptibility to Sexually Transmitted Infections ture. By preserving positional context, spatial transcriptomics allowed researchers to examine how gene expression varies In Addition to the Human Protein Atlas , a Spatially across tissue regions and how cells interact in their native Resolved Multiomics Atlas of the Female Genital Tract Could microenvironments (Figure 2 ). Provide Transcriptomic, Proteomic, and Imaging Datasets Essen- tial for Advancing the Field. Recent Studies Underscore the Although spatial transcriptomics typically achieves lower resolu- Feasibility and Utility of this Approach. For Example, Anal- tion relative to scRNA-seq, the two approaches are complemen- yses of Cervical Tissue From Women Living With HIV Have tary. scRNA-seq provides robust transcriptional heterogeneity Revealed Epithelial Barrier Disruption, Chronic Immune Acti- insights, whereas spatial transcriptomics anchor these data to vation, and Altered Positioning of CD4 + Target Cells, Processes specific tissue locations. Integration is typically achieved through central to both Transmission and Pathogenesis . A one or more computational strategies, including using scRNA- Comprehensive Atlas Could Incorporate Multiple Design Fea- seq as a reference to infer cell types in each spatial spot as tures: Inclusion of both Healthy Volunteers and Participants well as using various spatial interaction analyses to characterize Living With HIV; Longitudinal Sampling to Capture Dynamic microenvironments and communication networks . Changes Over Time; and Standardized Metadata Documenting Recent advances in spatial transcriptomics have facilitated higher Composition sensitivity, greater multiplexing, and finer resolution . Emerg- ing platforms support the construction of spatially resolved tissue atlases encompassing thousands of simultaneously detected tran- 4 Data Analysis and Computational Workflows scripts. These capabilities are particularly useful in studies of infectious diseases such as HIV, where the design of targeted 4.1 Software Platforms and Core Concepts in therapeutic strategies relies on knowledge of how viral reser- Bioimage Analysis voirs, immune populations, and tissue remodeling processes are distributed across genital mucosa. Progress in imaging hardware and computational techniques has been accompanied by the development of numerous digital image analysis softwares. Commercial packages, reliable and 3.3 Toward a Multiomics Atlas of the Female often bundled with specific
