American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: spatial, tissue, mucosal, hiv, immune, epithelial, transcriptomics, analysis, data, infection, genital, spatial transcriptomics, approaches, tissues, imaging


computational techniques has been accompanied by the development of numerous digital image analysis softwares. Commercial packages, reliable and 3.3 Toward a Multiomics Atlas of the Female often bundled with specific imaging systems, tend to prioritize Reproductive Tract standardization over flexibility. Their proprietary nature can limit adaptation to specialized studies or exploratory investigations. To Although Interest in Mucosal Immunology and Infectious Dis- address these limitations, biomarkers of HIV susceptibility can ease Research Has Expanded Considerably, Publicly Available be characterized within genital tissues via open-source software Datasets for the Female Genital Tract Remain Heavily Weighted platforms, such as QuPath , FIJI/ImageJ , CellProfiler Toward Cancer. Large-scale Efforts Such as the Cancer Genome , and Ilastik . These platforms provide a versatile envi- Atlas (TCGA) and the Cancer Research Data Commons (CRDC) ronment for tailoring workflows to the requirements of projects. 4of10 AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 Once a workflow is established and validated, the platforms may following core steps: (a) importing data, (b) quality control, (c) enable: a) Automated processing of large image datasets with sample integration and dimensionality reduction, (d) clustering consistent parameters, b) Significant time savings and reduced and cluster annotation (differential gene expression analysis of manual intervention for high-throughput studies, c) Enhanced clusters), (e) differential gene expression across study groups, (f) reproducibility through standardized automated workflows, and deconvolution of spots into percent cell types . d) Scalability for studies involving hundreds or thousands of images. In our research, some of them supported the design of customized workflows for compartment-specific (e.g., multistrat- 4.3 Replicates in Spatial and Imaging-Based ified epithelium or submucosa) image segmentation, immune Analyses cell enumeration, and evaluation of epithelial barrier integrity— analyses that would have been challenging to implement with The utilities of spatial omics and imaging platforms heavily fixed commercial frameworks. Moreover, the workflows can depend on the reliability of their outputs, which are shaped by the be partially reused between tissues with similar histological quality of biological and technical replicates. Biological replicates, structures, allowing for efficient adaptation and reproducibility drawn from distinct donors or anatomical sites, exhibit substan- of analysis across related sample types. tial variability due to differences in age, hormonal milieu, micro- biome composition, and disease status. This biological diversity An additional benefit of open-source software is the ease of can interact with technical sources of variation introduced during disseminating protocols to the broader research community, sample collection and processing. Mucosal samples from the which enhances transparency,
