American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: spatial, tissue, mucosal, hiv, immune, epithelial, transcriptomics, analysis, data, infection, genital, spatial transcriptomics, approaches, tissues, imaging


resolution using targeted panels intensity . . These distinctions must be considered when analyzing results across platforms or attempting data integration. 4.2 Computational Environments for Spatial Reproducibility in spatial studies requires careful design. The Transcriptomics inclusion of multiple biological replicates—such as samples from different individuals or anatomical regions—together with Spatial transcriptomic data interpretation requires the integra- technical replicates, such as repeat staining or sequencing, tion of molecular readouts with the underlying histological allows sources of variability to be identified and quantified. framework. The value of these datasets is realized only when The feasibility of incorporating multiple replicates is however visualizations are clear and scalable across single or multiple often limited by the invasive nature of tissue collection and tissue sections. To support such analyses, diverse computational the resulting scarcity of available samples. In addition, the tools have been developed in common programming environ- high cost associated with these methodologies poses significant ments such as R and Python. Among the most widely applied barriers to repeating experiments. Key quality metrics such as frameworks, Seurat (implemented in R; was originally tissue coverage, RNA integrity number, signal-to-noise ratios, and designed for single-cell transcriptomic studies but has since segmentation accuracy should be routinely reported and used to been extended to accommodate spatial technologies. Scanpy filter low-quality data. For cross-platform analyses, normaliza- provides comparable functionality in Python, offering pipelines tion and batch correction strategies (e.g., Harmony, Seurat-based tailored for various single-cell and spatial data analyses. A approaches) are essential to minimize technical artifacts while spatial transcriptomics data analysis workflow can include the retaining true biological signals. AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 5of10 5 Application of Multiplex Imaging and Spatial 5.2 Spatial Transcriptomics Identifies Transcriptomics in Human Genital Tissues Compartment-level Alterations in Gene Expression Affecting Genital Barrier Integrity 5.1 Tailored Bioimage Analysis Workflows for High-resolution Characterization of Mucosal Conventional tissue-disruptive methods such as flow cytome- Tissues try and scRNA-seq have yielded valuable insights concerning the effects of HIV on immune mediators and epithelial func- Studies in non-human primates have demonstrated that epithe- tion. However, these approaches have limitations. For instance, lial integrity is a major determinant of susceptibility to SIV [ 43, Steinert et al. reported discrepancies between immune cell 44 ]. A strong epithelial barrier in the female reproductive tract frequencies measured in dissociated mucosal suspensions and may theoretically contribute to the often relatively inefficient those observed by microscopy, suggesting that essential spa- transmission of HIV. However, epithelial characteristics
