American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: spatial, tissue, mucosal, hiv, immune, epithelial, transcriptomics, analysis, data, infection, genital, spatial transcriptomics, approaches, tissues, imaging


tract frequencies measured in dissociated mucosal suspensions and may theoretically contribute to the often relatively inefficient those observed by microscopy, suggesting that essential spa- transmission of HIV. However, epithelial characteristics substan- tial information is lost during tissue processing . These tially differ across anatomical sites. In the vagina and ectocervix, findings highlight the importance of approaches that maintain the surface epithelium is typically 150–500 µm thick and com- structural context when investigating mucosal immunity in HIV prising 25–30 layers of stratified squamous cells. In contrast, infection. the rectal mucosa consists of a single columnar epithelial layer. This monolayer is likely to offer less mechanical defense and Our recent work has shown that chronic HIV infection is linked is vulnerable to microtears during anal intercourse, potentially to localized transcriptional changes within the genital mucosa facilitating viral entry. . Genes involved in epithelial junctional complexes, extracellular matrix stability, and barrier integrity were down- To obtain reliable and reproducible information from mucosal regulated in discrete regions of the ectocervix. Such alterations tissues of varying complexity, image analysis workflows specifi- may create microenvironments more permissive to pathogen cally adapted to the structural features of each site are needed. entry and immune cell infiltration. These results emphasize that In a phase I human clinical trial evaluating the antiviral com- epithelial disruption in HIV infection is not uniform but spa- pound Griffithsin, we developed an automated pipeline for rectal tially heterogeneous, underscoring the need for tissue-resolved biopsies characterized by a single-layer epithelium. The method analyses. separated epithelial and submucosal compartments, quantified CD4+ lymphocytes, and assessed epithelial integrity via E- Spatial biology techniques have also proven useful for studies on cadherin staining . Segmentation routines were optimized to how the local microbiome influences the immune environment reflect the morphology of columnar epithelia, ensuring unbiased in the female reproductive tract [ 50–52 ]. When comparing women analysis across multiple specimens. with a highly diverse cervicovaginal microbiome to those with a Lactobacillus crispatus/acidophilus -dominated microbiome, spa- We applied a similar approach to the multi-layered stratified tial transcriptomics revealed a distinct gene expression profile squamous epithelium of the ectocervix . Our workflow was localized to the epithelial basal membrane of the ectocervix . modified to improve segmentation and enhance quantification The differentially expressed genes in the former group were of structural disturbances linked to chronic HIV infection . associated with epithelial maintenance, submucosal extracel- A validated approach for enumerating CD4+
