American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: spatial, tissue, mucosal, hiv, immune, epithelial, transcriptomics, analysis, data, infection, genital, spatial transcriptomics, approaches, tissues, imaging


differences in sample input, data output, and spatial resolution. Bulk transcriptomics averages gene expression across the tissue, while spatial transcriptomics preserves spatial context and reveals regional heterogeneity. Collectively, these findings illustrate how spatial transcriptomics The combined insights of imaging-based and transcriptomic and single-cell approaches can uncover compartment-specific datasets provides a comprehensive strategy to characterize shifts in gene expression that influence genital barrier function mucosal immunity in women living with HIV and women with and HIV susceptibility. an elevated risk of HIV acquisition . These complemen- tary methodologies have thus revealed pronounced epithelial disruption and altered immune regulation in ex vivo-derived ecto- 5.3 Combined Insights from Multiplex Imaging cervical tissue samples from women who are HIV-seropositive. and Spatial Transcriptomics in HIV Research The findings provide critical insights into the mechanisms of HIV pathogenesis and the associated enhanced susceptibility to other Bulk RNA sequencing has advanced understanding of mucosal sexually transmitted infections. immunity, but its reliance on population averages masks the spa- tial context of cell-cell interactions (Figure 3 ). Spatial transcrip- tomics addresses this limitation by preserving tissue architecture; 6 Current Limitations and Future Prospects in conjunction with multiplex imaging, it provides an integrated view of transcriptional and translational features within intact 6.1 Limitations and Potential Improvements in mucosa. This combined approach enables concurrent mapping Genital Mucosal Tissue Sampling of structural barriers and immune cell populations, creating a multidimensional portrait of the HIV-associated mucosal Major challenges in invasive genital mucosal tissue sampling microenvironment. include participant recruitment, limited access to medical facil- ities and trained personnel, requirements for participants to There is increasing evidence that resident immune cells within abstain from unprotected sexual activity for a period before non-lymphoid tissues exhibit functional properties distinct from and after the procedure, and the lack of standardized proto- their circulating counterparts . This observation underscores cols for sampling and analysis . Variability in sample mechanisms of HIV pathogenesis. Insights into the positioning of introduce significant technical variability. Moreover, differences target and effector leukocytes within genital tissues are critical for in the selection of anatomical sites, staining panels, and ana- efforts to elucidate the local immune response to HIV infection lytical pipelines hinder cross-study comparisons and limit the . Nevertheless, many studies have relied on indirect reproducibility of findings. Global efforts to harmonize mucosal sampling strategies such as cervicovaginal lavage or cytobrush sampling protocols can enhance reproducibility and facilitate collection, which lack spatial resolution . Recently,
