American Journal of Reproductive Immunology
KEYWORDS: spatial, tissue, mucosal, hiv, immune, epithelial, transcriptomics, analysis, data, infection, genital, spatial transcriptomics, approaches, tissues, imaging


formalin-fixed paraffin- tially informed methodological advances offer valuable guidance embedded samples generally exhibit reduced RNA quality and for developing interventions that preserve epithelial integrity, sensitivity. Additionally, some platforms detect only polyadeny- reduce harmful inflammation, and strengthen localized immune lated transcripts and display a 3 ′ bias, restricting identification defenses. These approaches can also support the improved design of non-coding RNAs and isoforms. Data sparsity, particularly for and safety evaluation of topical microbicides and pre-exposure low-abundance transcripts, constitutes an additional analytical prophylaxis (PrEP) formulations by revealing how candidate challenge. Improvements in barcoding and molecular capture interventions affect mucosal structure, signaling, and cellular strategies are increasing sensitivity, allowing reliable detection of composition within relevant tissue compartments. low-abundance transcripts. Despite the limited application of current platforms for large cohort studies, spatial transcriptomics continues to provide valuable insights, especially when used in combination with Acknowledgments high-resolution imaging and single-cell approaches. Multi-modal The authors thank Drs. K. Fowke, J. Kimani, J. Lajoie, and K. Omollo for platforms provide a more holistic view of tissue biology by com- their contributions to data collection and scientific collaboration within bining spatial transcriptomics with proteomics, epigenomics, and the Sex Worker Outreach Program in Nairobi, Kenya. metabolomics. Progress is also being driven by efforts to improve tissue compatibility and incorporate artificial intelligence for Ethics Statement image interpretation and data integration. These developments The authors confirm that the ethical policies of the journal, as noted will continue to support substantial advancements in tissue-level on the journal’s author guidelines page, have been adhered to and the analysis of immune responses. appropriate ethical review committee approval has been received. The 8of10 AmericanJournalofReproductiveImmunology,2026 study conformed to the US Federal Policy for the Protection of Human 17 . S. A. Sansone, P. McQuilton, P. Rocca-Serra, et al., “FAIRsharing as Subjects. a Community Approach to Standards, Repositories and Policies,”Nature Biotechnology 37, no. 4 (2019): 358–367, 0080-8 . Data Availability Statement 18 . F. Aeffner, K. Wilson, N. T. Martin, et al., “The Gold Standard Paradox The data that support the findings of this study are available from the in Digital Image Analysis: Manual versus Automated Scoring as Ground corresponding author upon reasonable request. Truth,”Archives of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine 141, no. 9 (2017): 1267– 1275, .
