Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


endoscopic review and further treatment as indicated, reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding. from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 5 snoisulcnoc from the report “bleeding peptic ulcer” 5 SBU’s Summary Background and aims Bleeding peptic ulcer is an acute, life-threatening condition that around 38 per 100 000 of the Swedish population suffered an episode of bleeding peptic ulcer. There is a marked increase with advancing age, regardless of gender. In those aged over 75 years, 170 people per 100 000 are affected annually. This rate is grad- ually decreasing, probably because the prevalence of the bacterium implicated in the development of peptic ulcer, Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori), is decreasing in the population. It is currently esti- mated that in Sweden, 7–10 people develop a bleeding peptic ulcer every day, and there is a death from the condition every two or three days. Although a bleeding peptic ulcer is a very common acute diagnosis in surgical units, acute medical units and emergency departments worldwide, there are many unanswered questions about how the condition should be managed and treated. The aim of this evalu- ation is to establish the scientific evidence base for the different treatments and combinations of treatment, and to highlight their 6 sbu’s summary and conclusions The scope and purpose of the report The purpose of this evaluation is to determine the benefits and risks associated with • drug treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer (Chapter 3.1) • endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer (Chapter 3.2) • surgical and endovascular treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer (Chapter 3.3) • preventive treatment for patients after admission for bleeding peptic ulcer (Chapter 3.4) • preventive treatment for patients with known risk factors for bleeding peptic ulcer (Chapter 3.5). in Chapters 4 and 5. The evaluation is restricted to studies of bleeding ulcers in the stomach and duodenum. Studies of bleeding from other parts of the gastrointestinal tract are not included, nor are studies of ulcers associated with gastrinoma (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome), or gastro- intestinal bleeding of other origin, eg, from polyps, varicosities, tumours or other defects of the vascular walls. Studies of bleeding which has occurred during hospitalisation, eg, during intensive care or post-operatively, have also been excluded. from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 7 Method SBU applies a thorough, systematic method, based on a search of the available databases, to identify all publications relevant to the subject in question. Every study included in
