Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


7 Method SBU applies a thorough, systematic method, based on a search of the available databases, to identify all publications relevant to the subject in question. Every study included in the evaluation has been assessed for quality and tabulated according to a specially designed method. Quality assessment covers the relevance of the study to the question being addressed, methodological quality – study design, internal relevance (as a reasonable guarantee against systematic error), statistical power and generalisability. Quality assessment of the health economics publications has been made jointly by medical experts and health economists. The results have then been graded according to the strength of the scientific evidence. 8 sbu’s summary and conclusions Facts 1 Study Quality, Relevance and Evidence Grading. Study quality refers to the scientific quality of an individual study and its capacity to answer a specific question in a reliable way. Evidence grade refers to the assessed strength of the collective body of scientific evidence and its capacity to answer a specific ques- tion in a reliable way. SBU uses an international evidence grading system called GRADE. Study design is the primary factor considered in the overall assessment of each outcome measure. Secondary factors that can increase or decrease the strength of the evidence include: study quality, relevance, consistency, transferability, effect size, data precision, risk of publication bias, and other aspects, eg, the dose- response relationship. Evidence grades – four levels Strong scientific evidence (⊕⊕⊕⊕) Based on high or medium quality studies with no factors that weaken the overall assessment. Moderately strong scientific evidence (⊕⊕⊕○) Based on high or medium quality studies with isolated factors that weaken the overall assessment. Limited scientific evidence (⊕⊕○○) Based on high or medium quality studies having factors that weaken the overall assessment. Insufficient scientific evidence (⊕○○○) Scientific evidence is deemed insufficient when scientific findings are absent, the quality of available studies is low, or studies of similar quality present conflicting findings. The stronger the evidence, the lower the likelihood that new research findings would affect the documented results within the foreseeable future. Conclusions SBU’s conclusions present an overall assessment of benefits, risks, and cost effectiveness. from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 9 Evidence-graded results Drug treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer Before endoscopic treatment • Treatment with high doses of a proton pump inhibitor for 24 hours before endoscopic diagnosis of bleeding peptic ulcer does not reduce mortality, the risk of recurrent bleeding,
