Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


treatment • Treatment with high doses of a proton pump inhibitor for 24 hours before endoscopic diagnosis of bleeding peptic ulcer does not reduce mortality, the risk of recurrent bleeding, or the need for surgery (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). However, this measure may reduce the need for endoscopic treatment1 (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). After endoscopic treatment • Treatment with a proton pump inhibitor after endoscopic diagnosis of bleeding peptic ulcer and primary endoscopic haemostasis reduces the risk of re-bleeding and the need for surgery2 (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). However, no difference can be demonstrated in total mortality2. • Treatment with a proton pump inhibitor after endoscopic diagnosis of bleeding peptic ulcer and primary endoscopic haemostasis reduces the need for repeat endoscopic treatment2 (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of treatment with tranexamic acid after endoscopic diagnosis of bleeding peptic ulcer and primary endoscopic haemostasis (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of treatment with somatostatin after endoscopic diagnosis of bleeding peptic ulcer and primary endoscopic haemostasis (⊕○○○). 1 The results are based on systematic reviews, with meta-analyses of studies in which the control groups received placebo, an H blocker or no active treatment. 2 The results are based on systematic reviews, with meta-analyses of studies in which the control groups received a placebo or an H blocker. 10 sbu’s summary and conclusions Eradication of H. pylori • Treatment to eradicate H. pylori after an episode of bleeding peptic ulcer reduces the risk of recurrent bleeding within the following 12 months (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). Endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer • Compared with no endoscopic treatment, endoscopic treat- ment of bleeding peptic ulcer classified as Forrest grades I and IIa reduces the need for surgery (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). • Compared with no endoscopic treatment, endoscopic treat- ment of bleeding peptic ulcer classified as Forrest grades I and IIa reduces the risk of recurrent bleeding (strong scien- tific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). • There is contradictory scientific evidence on the effect of endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer classified as Forrest grade IIb (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). • The scientific evidence is insufficient to assess the effect of OGD and any associated endoscopic treatment within 12 hours of presentation at hospital with bleeding peptic ulcer (⊕○○○). The various endoscopic treatment • Supplementary thermal or mechanical endoscopic haemostasis of bleeding peptic
