Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


any associated endoscopic treatment within 12 hours of presentation at hospital with bleeding peptic ulcer (⊕○○○). The various endoscopic treatment • Supplementary thermal or mechanical endoscopic haemostasis of bleeding peptic ulcer reduces the need for surgery, compared with injection of adrenaline only (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). • Supplementary thermal or mechanical endoscopic haemostasis of bleeding peptic ulcer reduces the risk of recurrent bleeding, compared with injection of adrenaline only (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 11 Planned follow-up endoscopy • Planned follow-up endoscopy to monitor the outcome of initial endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer reduces the risk of recurrent bleeding (moderately strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕○). However, no benefit can be shown with respect to total mortality or the need for surgery (moderately strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕○). These studies evaluated treat- ment with a variety of acid-suppressing drugs. Repeat endoscopic treatment • Repeated endoscopic treatment to control bleeding which recurs following initial endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer reduces the need for surgery (moderately strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕○). • Repeated endoscopic treatment to control bleeding which recurs following initial endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer reduces the risk of surgical complications (moderately strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕○). Treatment before OGD • Administration of a single dose of erythromycin before OGD for bleeding peptic ulcer improves visibility for the endoscopist during the procedure (strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕⊕). Risk of complications • There is insufficient scientific evidence to demonstrate any possible differences in the risk of complications associated with the various endoscopic methods (⊕○○○). The overall frequency of complications associated with endoscopic treat- ment is low – less than 1%. 12 sbu’s summary and conclusions Surgical and endovascular treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer • There is insufficient scientific evidence to identify those patients presenting with bleeding peptic ulcer that have such a high risk of endoscopic treatment failure that an alternative approach (surgery or endovascular treatment) should be con- sidered immediately (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to enable a comparison to be made between the effects of various surgical approaches to the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of endovascular treatment of patients with bleeding peptic ulcer in whom endoscopic or surgical treatment has previously failed (⊕○○○). Lack of studies • There is a lack of scientific evidence to allow comparison of endovascular and surgical treatment in
