Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


in whom endoscopic or surgical treatment has previously failed (⊕○○○). Lack of studies • There is a lack of scientific evidence to allow comparison of endovascular and surgical treatment in cases of recurrent bleeding after endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). Preventive treatment of patients after admission for bleeding peptic ulcer Patients who need to continue medication for pain relief • The risk of recurrent bleeding in patients with arthritis or arthrosis who need to take an NSAID is about the same with a combination of diclofenac and omeprazole as it is with cele- coxib (limited scientific evidence ⊕⊕○○). • The risk of recurrent bleeding in patients with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis who need to take an NSAID is about the same with a combination of naproxen and lansoprazole as it is with celecoxib (limited scientific evidence ⊕⊕○○). from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 13 • In patients with rheumatoid arthritis and a history of NSAID- related bleeding peptic ulcer, celecoxib and esomeprazole in combination may reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding com- pared with celecoxib alone (limited scientific evidence ⊕⊕○○). Patients who need to continue treatment with low-dose aspirin • Patients with cardiovascular disease and a history of bleeding peptic ulcer are at lower risk of recurrent bleeding if they receive preventive treatment with low-dose aspirin and esomeprazole in combination rather than clopidogrel alone (moderately strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕○). • In patients with cardiovascular disease, a history of bleeding peptic ulcer, who need to continue medication with low-dose aspirin, supplementary treatment with lansoprazole may reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding (limited scientific evidence ⊕⊕○○). Lack of published research • There is a lack of research into the most effective measures to reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding in patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer who need to continue medication with both NSAID and low-dose aspirin (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). • There is a lack of research into the most effective measures to reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding in patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer who need to continue medication with corticosteroids (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). • There is a lack of research into the most effective measures to reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding in patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer who need to continue medication with SSRI (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). 14 sbu’s summary and conclusions •
