Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


risk of recurrent bleeding in patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer who need to continue medication with SSRI (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). 14 sbu’s summary and conclusions • There is a lack of research into the efficacy of continuing treatment with acid-suppressing drugs following H. pylori eradication in patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer associated with H. pylori infection (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). • There is a lack of research into the long-term consequences of failure to monitor the outcome of H. pylori eradication after an episode of bleeding peptic ulcer (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). Preventive treatment for patients with known risk factors for bleeding peptic ulcer Patients who need medication for pain relief • Preventive treatment with proton pump inhibitors can reduce the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in patients on traditional NSAIDs (limited scientific evidence ⊕⊕○○). • Preventive treatment with H blockers can reduce the risk of bleeding peptic in patients on traditional NSAIDs (limited scientific evidence ⊕⊕○○). • Treatment with coxibs1, in the absence of concurrent adminis- tration of low-dose aspirin, has a lower risk of bleeding peptic ulcer compared with treatment with traditional NSAIDs (moderately strong scientific evidence ⊕⊕⊕○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine whether misoprostol affects the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in patients taking NSAIDs (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). 1 The results are based on systematic reviews and meta-analyses in which treatment was given with a variety of coxibs, some of which are no longer commercially available. from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 15 • There is insufficient evidence to determine whether nitrates affect the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in patients on NSAIDs (insufficient scientific evidence ⊕○○○). Patients who need treatment with antiplatelet drugs • Preventive treatment with proton pump inhibitors can reduce the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in patients taking antiplatelet drugs (limited scientific evidence ⊕⊕○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the preventive effect of H blockers on the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in patients taking antiplatelet drugs (⊕○○○). Lack of published research • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of reducing lifestyle-related risk factors on the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in patients without other risk factors (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of a change in lifestyle on the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient
