Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


factors (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of a change in lifestyle on the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of nabumetone on the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer, compared to other traditional NSAIDs, in people at increased risk (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of meloxicam on the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer, compared with other traditional NSAIDs, in people at increased risk (⊕○○○). 16 sbu’s summary and conclusions • There is insufficient evidence to determine the effect of H. pylori eradication as a primary prophylactic measure on the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in people taking traditional NSAIDs, antiplatelet drugs or anticoagulants (⊕○○○). • There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine whether the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer is affected by the administra- tion of high doses of paracetamol, ie, 3–4 g daily (⊕○○○). Discussion – results, knowledge gaps and clinical considerations Drug treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer The gastric juices secreted into the stomach and duodenum are highly acidic and this impairs the clotting ability of the blood. Drugs that suppress acid secretion, such as H blockers (histamine 2-receptor antagonists) and proton pump inhibitors, raise the pH of the stomach, which improves the ability of the blood to clot (coagulate) in cases of bleeding and reduces the risk of the clot dissolving. Before endoscopic treatment It has not been possible to answer the question of whether drug treatment should be given as soon as a patient with suspected ment can be delayed until the endoscopic diagnosis has been made. Nor has this report identified data that can establish the optimal timing of endoscopic diagnosis and possible treatment. Treatment with proton pump inhibitors for 24 hours before endo- scopic diagnosis reduces the need for endoscopic treatment, but it has no effect on the risk of re-bleeding, the need for surgery, or mortality. Treating the symptoms of bleeding before the source has been identified would mean that patients who do not have a bleeding peptic ulcer would also receive this treatment. The from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 17 administration of proton pump inhibitors prior to endoscopic diagnosis and treatment is not an important determinant of the outcome of treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer. After endoscopic treatment Intravenous administration of proton pump inhibitors for 72 hours immediately following
