Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


and treatment is not an important determinant of the outcome of treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer. After endoscopic treatment Intravenous administration of proton pump inhibitors for 72 hours immediately following diagnosis of bleeding peptic ulcer and treat- ment by endoscopic haemostasis reduces the risk of re-bleeding almost by half. This intervention also reduces the need for surgery and repeat endoscopic treatment. Mortality, however, is unaffected. Most of the studies evaluated used high doses of proton pump inhibitors, but the evidence base for optimal dosage is uncertain. Another unanswered question is at what stage proton pump inhibi- tors can be administered orally. Treatment with fibrinolysis inhibitors (tranexamic acid) is interest- ing in theory, as is the administration of drugs that reduce overall gastric secretion of acid and pepsin (eg, somatostatin). There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine the effect of treatment with somatostatin or tranexamic acid during the acute phase of bleeding peptic ulcer. Eradication of H. pylori In H. pylori positive patients, eradication of the bacterium follow- ing an episode of bleeding peptic ulcer reduces the risk of recurrent bleeding in the ensuing 12 months. Eradication prevents recurrent bleeding more effectively than long-term acid suppression alone. There are insufficient data about the benefits of monitoring the effectiveness of H. pylori eradication. Nor has it been possible to determine whether administration of proton pump inhibitors as a complement to H. pylori eradication improves treatment outcomes in patients who are not on aspirin or NSAIDs. 18 sbu’s summary and conclusions Endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer Endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer is now a well- established method. For the individual endoscopist, the proced- ure is often technically challenging and requires considerable experience. However, most hospitals only have a few patients who require this treatment. Endoscopic treatment has a low frequency of complications, regardless of the method used. The various endoscopic treatments The existence of many different techniques within a particular field may be due to the fact that no single technique is wholly satisfactory. This is the case with endoscopic treatment. We need to know more about the differences between the various tech- niques and which ones may be preferable for specific clinical con- ditions. In the case of active bleeding from a visible blood vessel lumen, thermal and mechanical haemostasis are the methods of choice. Adrenaline injection should not be used as sole treatment, but should be complemented by thermal
