Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


from a visible blood vessel lumen, thermal and mechanical haemostasis are the methods of choice. Adrenaline injection should not be used as sole treatment, but should be complemented by thermal or mechanical haemo- stasis. Our review of the literature provides no answer to the question of how to proceed when the ulcer is covered by a blood clot. The best time to carry out OGD in cases of acute bleeding represents another significant gap in our knowledge, and this is important for the organisation of patient care. Treatment before OGD Prior administration of erythromycin improves visibility for the endoscopist, which makes endoscopy easier. Planned follow-up endoscopy and repeat endoscopic treatment Planned follow-up endoscopy after initial endoscopic treatment reduces the risk of recurrent bleeding. Patients who have a re- currence of bleeding should have repeat endoscopic treatment. In practice, repeated endoscopic treatment is often carried out under general anaesthesia, so if a change in treatment plan from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 19 proves necessary, transition to surgical intervention can proceed without further delay. Surgical and endovascular treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer The aim of surgical intervention in cases of bleeding peptic ulcer is to control the bleeding. Since the development of endoscopic techniques, there has been a marked reduction in the need for surgery. Surgery or endovascular surgery can be used in the few cases in which bleeding cannot be controlled by endoscopic and pharmaceutical treatment. Mortality associated with surgery is still high, often due to cardiovascular complications. Surgical treatment The most appropriate timing for surgical intervention remains undetermined. Research is needed into the factors that may help to determine when to progress beyond endoscopy to other treat- ments. This would avoid wasting time on further attempts at endoscopic haemostasis while the patient’s condition continues to deteriorate. It is not possible either to demonstrate short-term differences in efficacy between the different surgical methods. Some data on the risk of long-term complications following major surgery may imply that simpler surgical intervention is preferable. Endovascular treatment There are no comparative or randomised studies to determine whether endovascular treatment is more effective than surgery in patients with bleeding peptic ulcer in whom prior endoscopic or surgical intervention has failed. There are case report series in which haemostasis has been achieved in over 70% of cases. Re-bleeding probably occurs in some cases because it has not been possible to identify the source of bleeding,
