Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


series in which haemostasis has been achieved in over 70% of cases. Re-bleeding probably occurs in some cases because it has not been possible to identify the source of bleeding, which is often intermittent. Endovascular treatment is available at relatively few hospitals in Sweden. 20 sbu’s summary and conclusions Preventive treatment of patients after admission for bleeding peptic ulcer We found no studies that establish whether patients with bleeding peptic ulcer associated with H. pylori infection derived any benefit from continued administration of acid suppressing drugs following eradication of the infection. There is insufficient scientific evidence to determine whether recurrent bleeding can be prevented by moni- toring the outcome of H. pylori eradication treatment. Both these questions require investigation in further studies. The high inci- dence of recurrent bleeding of unknown cause (eg, peptic ulcer unrelated to H. pylori infection or NSAID treatment) indicates that there is a need for further studies to determine the most appropriate preventive measures for this patient category. Patients who need to continue medication for pain relief In patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer who need to continue NSAID medication, the risk of a recurrence of bleed- ing is about the same when taking diclofenac plus omeprazole, naproxen plus lansoprazole, or taking celecoxib alone. Dyspepsia seems to be a commoner side effect with celecoxib than it is with naproxen plus lansoprazole. In patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer associated with NSAID, celecoxib plus esomeprazole has a lower risk of recurrent bleeding than celecoxib alone. Napro- xen plus esomeprazole has roughly the same efficacy as celecoxib alone. The use of coxibs is currently restricted, for several reasons (see below). Based on the literature review, no specific combina- tion of drugs can be recommended as preferable to any other, provided a proton pump inhibitor is included. Patients who need to continue treatment with low-dose aspirin For patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer who need to continue medication with low-dose aspirin, preventive treatment with a proton pump inhibitor may be considered. In patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer, who have cardiovascular disease and need to continue low-dose aspirin prophylaxis, supplementary from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 21 administration of lansoprazole reduces the risk of recurrent bleed- ing. In these patients, preventive treatment with low-dose aspirin and esomeprazole can also reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding, compared to clopidogrel alone. Other
