Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


reduces the risk of recurrent bleed- ing. In these patients, preventive treatment with low-dose aspirin and esomeprazole can also reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding, compared to clopidogrel alone. Other patient categories There is a lack of research into the risk of recurrent bleeding in patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer who need to continue medication with both NSAID and low-dose aspirin. There is also a lack of research into the risk of recurrent bleeding in patients with a history of bleeding peptic ulcer and a need to continue medication with corticosteroids or SSRIs. Preventive treatment for patients with known risk factors for bleeding peptic ulcer Lifestyle factors It remains unclear as to whether changes in lifestyle affect the risk of developing a bleeding peptic ulcer. Observational studies indicate that alcohol and smoking are lifestyle factors which pre- dispose to the development of bleeding peptic ulcer. However, there is a lack of published research into whether patients at risk of bleeding peptic ulcer can reduce this risk by giving up smoking or reducing alcohol consumption. It should be possible to carry out prospective cohort studies of smokers who either stop smoking or continue to smoke after an episode of bleeding peptic ulcer. It would also be of interest to investigate whether different forms of tobacco consumption affect risk. Patients who need medication for pain relief There are few randomised controlled studies of methods of reduc- ing the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in patients with one or more risk factors. However, several observational studies indicate that preventive treatment with proton pump inhibitors or H blockers can reduce the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in those taking tradi- tional NSAIDs. It is unclear whether H. pylori eradication prior to 22 sbu’s summary and conclusions long-term medication with an NSAID can reduce the risk of devel- oping a bleeding peptic ulcer in patients with or without other risk factors. Meta-analyses of studies of various coxibs show that compared with traditional NSAID medication, coxibs as a group halve the risk of serious complications associated with peptic ulcers. How- ever, the most convincing results are for studies of coxibs that have subsequently been withdrawn from the market. The clinical benefits of this group of drugs came into question following the publication of data linking certain coxibs with an increased risk of myocardial infarction. A further problem is that the results of several
