Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


group of drugs came into question following the publication of data linking certain coxibs with an increased risk of myocardial infarction. A further problem is that the results of several studies show a pronounced reduction in or an absence of preventive effect in patients taking low-dose aspirin and coxibs concomitantly. Paracetamol is often recommended as the drug of choice for patients with painful osteoarthritis. We found no randomised controlled studies which primarily compared the incidence of bleeding peptic ulcer in at-risk patients using paracetamol or traditional NSAIDs. It is unclear which has the lower risk of bleeding peptic ulcer, traditional NSAIDs combined with proton pump inhibitors, or coxibs with or without supplementary proton pump inhibitors. Studies which compare the efficacy and safety of these treatments would therefore be of interest. Monitoring of safety should not only include adverse gastrointestinal effects, but also adverse effects on the cardiovascular system and other clinic- ally important undesirable effects. Patients who need treatment with antiplatelet drugs Preventive treatment with proton pump inhibitors may reduce the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in people who are taking antiplatelet drugs. The scientific evidence is insufficient to assess the effect of H blockers on the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer in people taking antiplatelet drugs. from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 23 Ethical and social aspects Men are at greater risk of developing bleeding peptic ulcer than women, but this difference has decreased. The differences which remain are thought to be related to differences in underlying diseases and lifestyle. Smoking, for example, was previously much more common among men. Men and women did not appear to be treated differently either in the studies we reviewed or in our study of registry data. Treatment with antiplatelet drugs to prevent myocardial infarc- tion and stroke may increase the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer. Painkilling medication taken by patients with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis may also increase the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer. These risks must be weighed up very carefully. Myocardial infarction and stroke, like bleeding peptic ulcer, are potentially fatal conditions. Doctors and other healthcare personnel should be prepared to discuss the pros and cons with the patient and reach a joint decision about the most beneficial treatment. The scientific evidence in support of the prevention and treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer is mainly derived from studies that have been initiated, conducted and financed by the pharmaceutical and biomedical
