Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


scientific evidence in support of the prevention and treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer is mainly derived from studies that have been initiated, conducted and financed by the pharmaceutical and biomedical technology industries. Research is very product- driven and there are knowledge gaps in those areas that are not of obvious commercial interest. Commercial aims may also influence study design. One consequence of this is that there is very little research into the optimal duration of treatment. There is also a lack of research into the lifestyle changes that could reduce the risk of bleeding peptic ulcer. There are few studies of the complica- tions associated with bleeding, but in many peptic ulcer studies the conclusions are extrapolated to include complications of bleeding. 24 sbu’s summary and conclusions There is, therefore, a great need to complement existing studies with research that has a greater emphasis on identifying measures that offer the greatest benefit to the patient. Health economics It is not possible to determine, on the basis of current knowledge, which treatments are cost-effective following endoscopic diagnosis of bleeding peptic ulcer or which are cost-effective in the preven- tion of bleeding recurrence. Health economic consequence analyses are primarily based on the clinical results of studies. The existing empirical studies do not suggest any major cost differences between the various forms of treatment. Health economic considerations do not therefore need to play any great part in the prioritisation of the different treatment methods. A model analysis has shown that although proton pump inhibitor treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer could well increase healthcare costs to some degree, it can still be regarded as cost-effective. In addition, the medical consequence analysis shows that H. pylori eradication can reduce the risk of recurrent bleeding. In another effective strategy, but it does result in some increase in cost. Register study A register study was undertaken to investigate the dispensing of prescription drugs to patients treated for bleeding peptic ulcer, analysing data on treated patients extracted from the Swedish National Patient Register 2006–2008, and data from the Swedish Prescribed Drug Register. This analysis was based on data on prescription medicines dispensed to patients via pharmacies. from the report “Bleeding peptic ulcer” 25 The analysis covered prescriptions dispensed during the 90 days immediately prior to the admission, and 0–90 and 91–365 days post discharge. Bleeding from an ulcer in the stomach or duo- denum was the primary or
