Bookshelf_NBK298991
KEYWORDS: bleeding, peptic, ulcer, peptic ulcer, treatment, bleeding peptic, risk, patients, evidence, scientific, endoscopic, scientific evidence, sbu, need, studies


during the 90 days immediately prior to the admission, and 0–90 and 91–365 days post discharge. Bleeding from an ulcer in the stomach or duo- denum was the primary or secondary diagnosis. Not only were patients presenting for the first time with a bleeding peptic ulcer included, but also those with recurrent bleeding. This group was compared with patients treated during the same year for acute cholecystitis (gall bladder inflammation). This is not an ideal direct comparison because, among other differences, patients with acute cholecystitis are considerably younger than those with bleeding peptic ulcer. The patient groups were therefore matched for age and gender and stratified into two age groups: 45–64 years and 65–99 years. In the analyses we combined treatment with H blockers and proton pump inhibitors under the heading of acid suppression, but proton pump inhibitors were overwhelmingly predominant. During the total study period, prescriptions dispensed for H blockers accounted for only 2.5% of prescriptions for acid suppressants. Nearly 19 per 100 patients presenting with bleed- ing peptic ulcer had been on acid suppressants during the three months preceding the event, which suggests that such treatment is not enough to prevent bleeding. During the first three-month period after the bleeding episode, acid suppressants were dis- pensed to almost 100 per 100 patients, decreasing to about 60 per 100 patients at four months after the bleeding episode. The study showed that 0–90 days after treatment for a bleed- ing peptic ulcer, H. pylori was eradicated in only around 43 per 100 patients. It is not possible to determine whether this reflects a low prevalence of H. pylori in patients with bleeding peptic ulcer, or a lack of awareness on the part of healthcare personnel of the importance of H. pylori eradication following an episode of bleed- ing peptic ulcer. As most of the patients in this population were 26 sbu’s summary and conclusions quite elderly, we assume that the incidence of H. pylori is probably higher than the results suggest, but this is mere speculation. During the year following the first episode of bleeding peptic ulcer, just over 10% of patients will have recurrent bleeding from the ulcer, or another form of gastrointestinal bleeding. Four to prescribed medication to eradicate the bacterium responsible for peptic ulceration, H. pylori, have a 70% higher mortality rate than those who are prescribed medication to treat this infection. from the report “Bleeding peptic
