Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


ABSTRACT Diabetic retinopathy is a significant life-altering complication affecting patients with diabetes. Understanding its pathogenesis, prevention, and treatment is critical to delivering effective and comprehensive care for patients with diabetes at all stages. This review discusses the risk factors, epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical features, and treatment options for diabetic retinopathy, with an emphasis on practical information useful for endocrinologists and other non-ophthalmologists. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the most common microvascular complication of diabetes and a leading cause of blindness worldwide and in the US ( 1 - 3 ). The individual lifetime risk of DR is estimated to be 50–60% in patients with type 2 diabetes and over 90% in patients with type 1 diabetes ( 4 ). It is one of the most frequent causes of blindness in adults between 20-74 years of age in developed countries ( 5 ). The same pathologic mechanisms that damage the kidneys and other organs affect the microcirculation of the eye ( 6 ). With the global epidemic of diabetes, one expects that diabetes will be the leading global cause of vision loss in many countries ( 1 , 2 ). While DR is specific for diabetes, other eye disorders, such as glaucoma and cataracts, occur earlier and more frequently in people with diabetes ( 5 ). Often, by the time patients seek ophthalmologic examination and treatment, there are significant alterations of the retinal microvasculature. Therefore, it is important for non-ophthalmologists to recognize the importance of eye disease in patients with diabetes so that appropriate referral to eye-care specialists can be a part of their diabetes management program. EPIDEMIOLOGY In the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR), the prevalence of DR in patients with type 1 diabetes was 17% in those with less than 5 years of diabetes vs 98% in those with 15 or more years of diabetes ( 6 ). Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) was absent in patients with type 1 diabetes of short duration but present in 48% of those with 15 or more years of diabetes. In patients with type 1 diabetes, the 25-year rate of progression of DR was 83%, with progression to PDR occurring in 42% of patients ( 7 ). Improvement of DR was observed in 18% of patients with type 1 diabetes. In the WESDR, 3.6% of
