Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


be noted that two large cardiovascular outcome trials, the ADVANCE trial and the VADT, failed to demonstrate a benefit of intensive glucose control on diabetic retinopathy ( 27 , 28 ). However, these trials enrolled patients who already had diabetes for several years prior to enrollment, so they likely had not had the opportunity to develop the metabolic memory that could yield better retinopathy outcomes. Additionally, a meta-analysis of the four large cardiovascular outcome studies in patients with type 2 diabetes (UKPDS, ACCORD, ADVANCE, and VADT) found that more intensive glucose control resulted in a decrease in HbA1c of -0.90% and a 13% reduction in the need for retinal photocoagulation therapy or vitrectomy, development of PDR, or progression of DR ( 29 ). Another meta-analysis of 7 trials with 10,793 participants reported a 20% decrease in DR with intensive glycemic control (0.80, 0.67 to 0.94; P=0.009) ( 30 ). Taken together, these results clearly demonstrate that in patients with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes, improvements in glycemic control will reduce the risk of the development and progression of DR. Rapid Improvement in Glycemic Control Deterioration of DR, upon initiation of intensive diabetes treatment, was described in the 1980s in patients with type 1 diabetes who were treated intensively with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusions ( 31 - 34 ). In patients with poor glycemic control and DR, rapidly improving glycemic control can worsen DR and, in some instances, result in PDR or DME. This worsening can occur as soon as 3 months after initiating intensive glycemic control. In the DCCT early worsening was observed at the 6- and/or 12-month visit in 13.1% of patients in the intensive treatment group and in 7.6% of patients assigned to conventional treatment (odds ratio, 2.06; P < .001) ( 35 ). In the DCCT the most important risk factors for early worsening of DR were a higher HbA1c level and reduction of this level during the first 6 months of treatment ( 35 ). It must be recognized that in the DCCT the long-term ophthalmic outcomes in intensively treated patients who had early worsening were similar to or more favorable than outcomes in conventionally treated patients. This early worsening of DR with improved glycemic control has also been described in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with insulin or GLP-1 agonists, following bariatric surgery, in pregnant women with diabetes, and following pancreatic transplants
