Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


glycemic control has also been described in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with insulin or GLP-1 agonists, following bariatric surgery, in pregnant women with diabetes, and following pancreatic transplants in patients with type 1 diabetes ( 35 ). The mechanism(s) leading to early worsening of DR with improvements in glycemic control are unknown ( 36 ). The FOCUS study ( NCT03811561 ) is evaluating this further by comparing the rate of 3-step ETDRS severity level progression, and other DR-related outcomes, at 5 years in patients on semaglutide versus placebo. While this worsening is distressing, it must be recognized that the long-term benefits of improving glycemic control on DR greatly outweigh the risks of early worsening. Hypertension In the WESDR, blood pressure (BP) was not related to incidence or progression of retinopathy in the patients with type 2 diabetes using insulin or the type 2 patients not using insulin, but in the patients with type 1 diabetes systolic BP was a significant predictor of the incidence of DR ( 37 ). In contrast, in the UKPDS and other studies high BP in patients with type 2 was associated with the development of DR ( 2 , 16 , 38 ). In one prospective study the risk of DR increased by 30% for every 10 mm Hg increase in systolic BP at baseline ( 39 ). While observational studies can show an association, randomized controlled trials are required to demonstrate causation and the benefits of treatment. A number of studies have examined the effect of lowering BP in patients with hypertension on the development and progression of DR. STUDIES IN PATIENTS WITH HYPERTENSION The UKPDS examined the effect of tight vs. less tight BP control in 1,148 hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes ( 40 ). In the tight BP control group (captopril and atenolol), BP was significantly reduced compared to the less tight group (144/82 mm Hg vs.154/87 mm Hg; (P<0.0001). After nine years the tight BP control group had a 34% reduction in the deterioration of retinopathy (P=0.0004) and a 47% reduced risk (P=0.004) of deterioration in visual acuity. Additionally, patients in the tight BP group were less likely to undergo photocoagulation (RR, 0.65; P = 0.03), a difference primarily due to a decrease in photocoagulation due to maculopathy (RR, 0.58; P = 0.02) ( 41 ). In contrast to glycemic control, the benefits of lowering BP were not
