Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


(BP<140 mm Hg) on the progression of DR after 4 years of treatment ( 24 ). Systolic BP was 117 mm Hg in the intensive-therapy group and 133 mm Hg in the standard-therapy group. The progression of DR was 10.4% with intensive blood-pressure therapy vs. 8.8% with standard therapy (adjusted odds ratio, 1.23; P=0.29). The Appropriate Blood Pressure Control in Diabetes (ABCD2) Trial was a randomized blinded trial that compared the effects of intensive versus moderate BP control in 470 patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension ( 46 ). The intensive group was treated with either nisoldipine or enalapril, while the usual care BP group received placebo. The mean blood pressure achieved was 132/78 mm Hg in the intensive group and 138/86 mm Hg in the moderate group. Over the 5-year follow-up period, there was no difference in the progression of DR between the intensive and moderate groups. Thus, in patients with hypertension, randomized trials of lowering BP have not consistently shown beneficial effects on DR. BASIS FOR VARIABILITY There are numerous possible explanations for the differences in results between these studies. First, the duration of diabetes prior to enrollment in a diabetes-management trial will impact the subsequent outcomes and risk of developing complications. Second, the severity of the hypertension may be important, with greater responses in individuals with higher BP levels. Third, the magnitude of the reduction in BP may be important, with greater benefit with greater decreases in BP. Fourth, the duration of the study may be an important variable, with the longer the study the greater the chances of benefits. Fifth, the presence of DR at baseline and the severity of DR at baseline may influence the response to BP lowering. Sixth, patient variables such as glycemic control, age, diabetes type, duration of diabetes, etc., may influence results. Finally, the drugs used to lower BP may be a key variable as described below. STUDIES IN PATIENTS WITH NORMAL BP Because of the potential benefits of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and angiotensin receptor inhibitors (ARBs) (Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) inhibitors) on microvascular disease independent of BP effects, a number of studies have explored the effects of these drugs on DR in patients without elevated BP. Below we briefly describe the largest of these studies. The EUCLID trial was a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial in 354 patients with type 1 diabetes who were not hypertensive and were
