Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


(p= 0.00006). This decrease in the development of DR was seen in patients with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes and patients who were hypertensive or normotensive. In 16 studies with 9,580 participants with pre-existing DR, RAS inhibitors decreased the progression of DR by 13% (p=0.00006). This decrease in progression of DR was seen in patients with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes and patients who were normotensive. In hypertensive patients there was a trend (7% decrease) that was not statistically significant. It should be noted that in the hypertensive patients RAS inhibitors were compared to other hypertensive drugs, and the number of hypertensive participants was relatively small (n=839). Therefore, the absence of a decrease in progression of DR in hypertensive patients is not definitive. Six studies with 2,624 participants examined the effect of RAS inhibitors on inducing regression of DR. RAS inhibitors increased the regression of DR by 39% (p=0.00002), and this beneficial effect was seen in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. ACE inhibitors were more effective in reducing the development, progression, and regression of DR than ARBs. Thus, with the data available, RAS inhibitors appear to have benefits on DR above and beyond their effects on BP control. CONCLUSION Observational studies have shown an association of elevated BP with a higher risk of DR. As should be obvious from the above discussion, the beneficial effects of lowering BP in hypertensive patients on DR have not produced consistent results. Several large carefully carried out studies have failed to demonstrate a beneficial effect of lowering BP on DR (ACCORD, ADVANCE, ABCD2). Potential reasons for this inconsistency were discussed above. It is unlikely that future studies will provide definitive data on this issue, as lowering BP in hypertensive patients with diabetes to prevent cardiovascular disease is essential, and therefore designing clinical trials regarding DR will be very difficult. From the clinician’s viewpoint, treating hypertension in patients with diabetes to prevent cardiovascular disease is standard therapy and may also have beneficial effects DR. Similar to the beneficial effects on renal disease, RAS inhibitors appear to decrease the development and progression of DR, and therefore when treating patients with diabetes who are hypertensive, one should be preferentially consider RAS inhibitors to lower BP in patients with or at high risk of DR. In normotensive patients the available data suggests that RAS inhibition will have beneficial effects on DR,
