Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


is expressed in the retina ( 67 ). Diabetic PPARα KO mice developed more severe DR while overexpression of PPARα in the retina of diabetic rats significantly alleviated diabetes-induced retinal vascular leakage and retinal inflammation, suggesting that fibrates could have direct effects on the retina to reduce DR ( 67 ). STATINS Several large database studies have suggested that statin use reduces the development of DR ( 68 - 71 ). Unfortunately, the number of randomized clinical trials testing the hypothesis that statin therapy reduces DR development or progression is very limited. In a study by Sen and colleagues, 50 patients with diabetes mellitus (Type 1 and 2) with good glycemic control and hypercholesterolemia and having DR were randomized to simvastatin vs. placebo ( 72 ). Visual acuity improved in four patients using simvastatin and decreased in seven patients in the placebo group and none in the simvastatin group (P = 0.009). Fundus fluorescein angiography and color fundus photography showed improvement in one patient in the simvastatin group, while seven patients showed worsening in the placebo group (P = 0.009). In a study by Gupta and colleagues, 30 patients with type 2 diabetes with clinically significant macular edema, dyslipidemia, and grade 4 hard exudates were randomized to receive atorvastatin or no lipid lowering drugs ( 73 ). All patients received laser therapy. Ten (66.6%) of 15 patients treated with atorvastatin and two (13.3%) of 15 patients in the control group showed a reduction in hard exudates (P =.007). None of the patients treated with atorvastatin and five (33.3%) of 15 in the control group showed subfoveal lipid migration after laser photocoagulation (P =.04). Regression of macular edema was seen in nine eyes in the atorvastatin group and five in the control group (P =.27). In a study by Narang and colleagues, 30 patients with clinically significant macular edema with a normal lipid profile were randomly treated with atorvastatin or with no lipid lowering drugs. All patients received laser therapy. After a 6-month follow-up visual acuity, macular edema and hard exudates resolution was not significantly different in the two groups. The data on the benefit of statin therapy on DR are not very strong. Given the current recommendations to prevent cardiovascular disease, most patients with diabetes are treated with statins, and therefore it is unlikely that large, randomized trials of the effect of statin therapy on DR are feasible. OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS
