Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


disease, most patients with diabetes are treated with statins, and therefore it is unlikely that large, randomized trials of the effect of statin therapy on DR are feasible. OMEGA-3-FATTY ACIDS A Study of Cardiovascular Events in Diabetes (ASCEND) was a randomized, placebo controlled, double blind, cardiovascular outcome trial of 1-gram omega-3-fatty acids (400 mg EPA and 300 mg DHA ethyl esters) vs. olive oil placebo in 15,480 patients with diabetes without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention trial) ( 74 ). Total cholesterol, HDL-C, and non-HDL-C levels were not significantly altered by omega-3-fatty acid treatment (changes in TG levels were not reported). After a mean follow-up of 7.4 years the development of retinopathy and the need for laser therapy based on self-report was similar in the omega-3-fatty acid and placebo group. Additionally, there was no difference in patients being referred for retinopathy or maculopathy ( 74a ). Thus, at this time there is no evidence that omega-3-fatty acids influence DR. NIACIN It has been estimated that 0.67% of patients treated with niacin develop macular edema ( 75 ). Pregnancy Diabetic retinopathy may progress during pregnancy and up to one year postpartum. For additional information on retinopathy during pregnancy see the chapter in Endotext on “Diabetes in Pregnancy” ( 76 ). Genetics Some individuals develop DR despite good glycemic control and short duration of disease, while others do not develop DR, even with poor glycemic control and longer duration of diabetes ( 77 ). Additionally, the strongest environmental factors (duration of diabetes and HbA1c) only explained about 11% of the variation in DR risk in the DCCT trial and 10% in the WESDR study ( 12 , 78 ). Thus, factors other than glycemic control play an important role. There is a familial relationship in the development of DR, as twin and family studies indicate a genetic basis ( 79 , 80 ). The differences in the prevalence of DR in different ethnic groups may be related to genetic factors ( 79 ). Unfortunately, the identification of genetic susceptibility loci for DR through candidate gene approaches, linkage studies, and GWAS has not provided conclusive results ( 79 - 81 ). From a clinician’s point of view, if there is a family history of DR, one should aggressively control risk factors for DR and ensure close eye follow-up. SCREENING The American Academy of Ophthalmology has recommended screening for diabetic retinopathy 5
