Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


family history of DR, one should aggressively control risk factors for DR and ensure close eye follow-up. SCREENING The American Academy of Ophthalmology has recommended screening for diabetic retinopathy 5 years after diagnosis in patients with type 1 diabetes, and at the time of diagnosis in patients with type 2 diabetes. Patients without retinopathy should undergo dilated fundus examination annually. If mild non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) is present, exams should be repeated every 9 months. Patients with moderate NPDR should be examined every 6 months. In severe NPDR, exams should be conducted every 3 months. Patients with a new diagnosis of proliferative diabetic retinopathy should be examined every 2 to 3 months, until they are deemed stable, at which point examinations can be performed less frequently. During pregnancy, patients should be examined every 3 months, since retinopathy can progress rapidly in this setting (2019 AAO preferred practice pattern document for monitoring diabetic retinopathy: https://www.aao.org/preferred-practice-pattern/diabetic-retinopathy-ppp ). The American Diabetes Association 2024 guidelines ( 5 ) recommend the following: • Adults with type 1 diabetes should have an initial dilated and comprehensive eye examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist within 5 years after the onset of diabetes. • Patients with type 2 diabetes should have an initial dilated and comprehensive eye examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist at the time of the diabetes diagnosis. • If there is no evidence of retinopathy for one or more annual eye exams and glycemia is well controlled, then screening every 1–2 years may be considered. If any level of diabetic retinopathy is present, subsequent dilated retinal examinations should be repeated at least annually by an ophthalmologist or optometrist. If retinopathy is progressing or sight-threatening, then examinations will be required more frequently. • Programs that use retinal photography (with remote reading or use of a validated assessment tool) to improve access to diabetic retinopathy screening can be appropriate screening strategies for diabetic retinopathy. Such programs need to provide pathways for timely referral for a comprehensive eye examination when indicated. • Women with preexisting type 1 or type 2 diabetes who are planning pregnancy or who are pregnant should be counseled on the risk of development and/or progression of diabetic retinopathy. • Eye examinations should occur before pregnancy or in the first trimester in patients with preexisting type 1 or type 2 diabetes, and then patients should be monitored every trimester and for 1 year postpartum as
