Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


pregnancy or in the first trimester in patients with preexisting type 1 or type 2 diabetes, and then patients should be monitored every trimester and for 1 year postpartum as indicated by the degree of retinopathy. PATHOGENESIS Various mechanisms account for the features of diabetic retinopathy. Histopathologic analysis shows the thickening of capillary basement membranes, microaneurysm formation, loss of pericytes, capillary acellularity, and neovascularization. Microaneurysms, outpouchings of the capillary wall, serve as sites of fluid and lipid leakage, which can lead to the development of diabetic macular edema. Theories on the biochemistry of these end-organ changes include toxic effects from sorbitol accumulation, vascular damage by excessive glycosylation with crosslinking of basement membrane proteins, and activation of protein kinase C-ß2 by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), leading to increased vascular permeability and endothelial cell proliferation. VEGF, produced by the retina in response to hypoxia, is believed to play a central role in the development of neovascularization ( 1 , 82 ). CLINICAL FEATURES Non-Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy (NPDR) Studies have found that retinopathy in both insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetes occurs 3 to 5 years or more after the onset of diabetes. In the WESDR, the prevalence of at least minimal retinopathy was almost 100% after 20 years ( 83 ). However, this study was performed prior to the advent of other adjunctive therapies for diabetes that may yield more favorable outcomes over the long term. Another study found that at least 39% of young persons with diabetes developed retinopathy within the first 10 years ( 84 ). The earliest clinical sign of diabetic retinopathy is the microaneurysm, a red dot seen on ophthalmoscopy that varies from 15 to 60 microns in diameter ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1. Microaneurysms and intraretinal hemorrhages in nonproliferative retinopathy. (UCSF Department of Ophthalmology). The lesions can be difficult to distinguish from intraretinal hemorrhages on examination, but with fluorescein angiography microaneurysms can be identified easily as punctate spots of hyperfluorescence ( Figure 2 , 3 ). By contrast, hemorrhages block the background fluorescence and therefore appear dark. Figure 2. Microaneurysms: hyperfluorescent dots in early phase of fluorescein angiogram (arrows). (Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, Dept. of Ophthalmology). Figure 3. Two minutes later, fluorescein leakage from the microaneurysms gives them a hazy appearance. (Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, Dept. of Ophthalmology). The severity of NPDR can be graded as mild, moderate, severe, or very severe. In mild disease,
