Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


gives them a hazy appearance. (Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, Dept. of Ophthalmology). The severity of NPDR can be graded as mild, moderate, severe, or very severe. In mild disease, microaneurysms are present with hemorrhage or hard exudates (lipid transudates). In moderate NPDR, these findings are associated with cotton-wool spots (focal infarcts of the retinal nerve fiber layer or areas of axoplasmic stasis) or intraretinal microvascular abnormalities (vessels that may be either abnormally dilated and tortuous retinal vessels, or intraretinal neovascularization). The “4-2-1 rule” is used to diagnose severe NPDR: criteria are met if hemorrhages and microaneurysms are present in 4 quadrants, or venous beading ( Figure 4 ) is present in 2 quadrants, or moderate intraretinal microvascular abnormalities are present in 1 quadrant. In very severe NPDR, two of these features are present. The correct evaluation and staging of NPDR is important as a means of assessing the risk of progression. In the ETDRS, eyes with very severe NPDR had a 60-fold increased risk of developing high-risk proliferative retinopathy after 1 year compared with eyes with mild NPDR ( 85 ). For eyes with mild or moderate NPDR, early treatment with laser was not warranted, as the benefits in preventing vision loss did not outweigh the side effects ( 1 ). By contrast, in very severe NPDR, early laser treatment was often helpful. Figure 4. Venous beading (arrows) in a case of proliferative diabetic retinopathy. (UCSF Department of Ophthalmology). Capillary closure can also result in macular ischemia, another cause of vision loss in NPDR. This can be identified clinically as an enlargement of the normal foveal avascular zone on fluorescein angiography ( Figure 5 ). Figure 5. Capillary dropout around the fovea (white arrow) and in the temporal macula (black arrow). (Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, Dept. of Ophthalmology). Diabetic Macular Edema (DME ) Macular edema may be present at all the stages of diabetic retinopathy and is the most common cause of vision loss in nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. Because of the increased vascular permeability and breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier, fluid and lipids leak into the retina and cause it to swell. This causes photoreceptor dysfunction, leading to vision loss when the center of the macula, the fovea, is affected. In the ETDRS, diabetic macular edema (DME) was characterized as "clinically significant" if any of the following were noted ( Figure 6 ): retinal thickening within 500 microns
