Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


is affected. In the ETDRS, diabetic macular edema (DME) was characterized as "clinically significant" if any of the following were noted ( Figure 6 ): retinal thickening within 500 microns of the fovea, hard exudates within 500 microns of the fovea if associated with adjacent retinal thickening, or an area of retinal thickening 1 disc diameter or larger if any part of it is located within 1 disc diameter of the fovea ( 86 ). Figure 6. Clinically significant macular edema with hard exudates in the fovea. Cotton-wool spots are present near the major vessels. (UCSF Department of Ophthalmology). Although the cause of the microvascular changes in diabetes is not fully understood, the deficient oxygenation of the retina may induce an overexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), with a consequent increase in vascular leakage and retinal edema ( 87 ). Besides ischemia, inflammation may also play a role in the development of macular edema in diabetic retinopathy. In fact, elevated levels of extracellular carbonic anhydrase have been discovered in the vitreous of patients with diabetic retinopathy ( 88 ). Carbonic anhydrase may originate from retinal hemorrhages and erythrocyte lysis and may activate the kallikrein-mediated inflammatory cascade, contributing to the development of DME. Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is a widely used imaging technique that provides high-resolution imaging of the retina ( Figure 7 ) ( 89 ). Working as an “optical ultrasound,” OCT projects a light beam and then acquires the light reflected from the retina to provide a cross-sectional image. Most patients with DME have diffuse retinal thickening or cystoid macular edema (presence of intraretinal cystoid-like spaces). In some patients, DME may be associated with posterior hyaloidal traction, serous retinal detachment or traction retinal detachment ( 90 ). Cystoid macular edema and posterior hyaloid traction are significantly associated with worse visual acuity ( 90 ). Figure 7. OCT image showing diabetic macular edema (UCSF Department of Ophthalmology). Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy (PDR) In proliferative diabetic retinopathy, many of the changes seen in NPDR are present in addition to neovascularization that extends along the surface of the retina or into the vitreous cavity ( Figure 8 ). These vessels are in loops that may form a network of radiating spokes or may appear disorganized. In many cases the vessels are first noted on the surface of the optic disc, although they can be easily missed due to their fine caliber. Close
