Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


may appear disorganized. In many cases the vessels are first noted on the surface of the optic disc, although they can be easily missed due to their fine caliber. Close inspection often reveals that these new vessels cross over both the normal arteries and the normal veins of the retina, a sign of their unregulated growth. Figure 8. Active neovascularization in PDR. Fibrovascular proliferation overlies the optic disc (white arrow). Loops of new vessels are especially prominent superior to the disc and extending into the macula, where leakage of fluid has led to deposition of a ring of hard exudate around the neovascular net (black arrow). (UCSF Department of Ophthalmology). New vessels can also appear on the iris, a condition known as rubeosis iridis ( Figure 9 ). When this occurs, careful inspection of the anterior chamber angle is essential, as growth of neovascularization in this location can obstruct aqueous fluid outflow and cause neovascular glaucoma. Figure 9. Rubeosis iridis in a case of PDR. Abnormal new vessels are growing along the surface of the iris (arrows). (UCSF Dept. of Ophthalmology). Neovascularization can remain relatively stable or it can grow rapidly; progression can be noted ophthalmoscopically over a period of weeks. Preretinal new vessels often develop an associated white, fibrous tissue component that can increase in size as the vessels regress. The resulting fibrovascular membrane may then develop new vessels at its edges. This cycle of growth and fibrous transformation of diabetic neovascularization is typical. The proliferation occurs on the anterior surface of the retina, and the vessels extend along the posterior surface of the vitreous body. Fibrous proliferation takes place on the posterior vitreous surface; when the vitreous detaches, the vessels can be pulled forward and the thickened posterior vitreous surface can be seen ophthalmoscopically, highlighted by areas of fibrovascular proliferation. The severity of PDR can be classified as to the presence or absence of high-risk characteristics. As determined in the Diabetic Retinopathy Study, eyes are classified as high-risk if they have 3 of the following 4 characteristics: the presence of any neovascularization; neovascularization on or within 1-disc diameter of the optic disc; a moderate to severe amount of neovascularization (greater than 1/3 disc area neovascularization of the disc, or greater than 1/2 disc area if elsewhere), or vitreous hemorrhage. Vision loss in proliferative diabetic retinopathy results from three main causes. First, vitreous hemorrhage occurs because the neovascular tissue
