Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


or greater than 1/2 disc area if elsewhere), or vitreous hemorrhage. Vision loss in proliferative diabetic retinopathy results from three main causes. First, vitreous hemorrhage occurs because the neovascular tissue is subject to vitreous traction. Coughing or vomiting may also trigger a hemorrhage. Hemorrhage may remain in the preretinal space between the retina and the posterior vitreous surface, in which case it may not cause much vision loss if located away from the macula ( Figure 10 ). In other cases, though, hemorrhage can spread throughout the entire vitreous cavity, causing a diffuse opacification of the visual media with marked vision loss ( Figure 11 , 12 ). Figure 10. Preretinal hemorrhage: blood trapped between the retina and the vitreous in a case of incomplete vitreous detachment. Visual acuity is unaffected. (UCSF Department of Ophthalmology). Figure 11. Left: moderate vitreous hemorrhage; vision = 20/150. Right: 1 year later after spontaneous clearing of the hemorrhage; vision = 20/30. (Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, Dept. of Ophthalmology). Figure 12. Dense vitreous hemorrhage almost completely obscuring the view of the fundus. (Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, Dept. of Ophthalmology). Another cause of severe vision loss in PDR is retinal detachment. As the fibrovascular membranes and vitreous contract, their attachments to the retina can cause focal elevations of the retina, resulting in a traction retinal detachment ( Figure 13 ). In other cases the retinal vessels can be avulsed or retinal holes may be created by this traction, leading to a combined traction-rhegmatogenous retinal detachment ( Figure 14 ). Figure 13. Marked fibrosis with traction exerted on the retina outside the central macula (arrows). The macula does not appear to be elevated centrally. (UCSF Dept. of Ophthalmology). Figure 14. Traction retinal detachment outside the macula. Note elevation of retinal vessel out of the plane of focus (white arrow). Scatter photocoagulation scars are seen peripherally (black arrow). (UCSF Dept. of Ophthalmology). Finally, patients with PDR may have macular nonperfusion or coexisting diabetic macular edema that causes vision loss through photoreceptor dysfunction. TREATMENT Tight glucose and blood pressure control are critical systemic factors in controlling the progression of diabetic retinopathy. Ocular complications of diabetes are addressed directly through treatment with laser photocoagulation, intravitreal injections, or surgery. Laser treatment has been the primary approach to vision-threatening diabetic retinopathy for decades. Recent randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that intravitreal anti-VEGF agents are more effective than laser under certain
