Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


Laser treatment has been the primary approach to vision-threatening diabetic retinopathy for decades. Recent randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that intravitreal anti-VEGF agents are more effective than laser under certain conditions. Laser Photocoagulation for NPDR Diabetic macular edema is believed to result from fluid and lipid transudation from microaneurysms and telangiectatic capillaries. Focal laser photocoagulation is used to heat and close the microaneurysms, causing them to stop leaking ( Figure 15 ). Macular edema often improves following this form of treatment. Some clinicians apply laser burns in a grid pattern overlying areas of retinal edema without directing treatment to specific microaneurysms; this method can also be effective in reducing retinal thickening. The mechanism by which grid laser treatment achieves these results is not known. The ETDRS found that the risk of moderate visual loss in eyes with diabetic macular edema was reduced by 50% by photocoagulation ( 91 , 92 ). At 3 years, 24% of untreated eyes experienced a 3-line decrease in vision compared with 12% of treated eyes. Eyes meeting the criteria for clinically significant macular edema in which the edema was closest to the center were most likely to benefit from treatment. Side effects of laser treatment can include scotomata, noticeable immediately after the procedure, if treatment is performed too close to the fovea. Late enlargement of laser scars can also occur, causing delayed visual loss. Inadvertent photocoagulation of the fovea is a risk of the procedure. Since the amount of energy used is minimal, the treatment is performed under topical anesthesia. In the ETDRS study, only a very small percentage of eyes improved with focal laser treatment, highlighting the fact that the goal of laser treatment is not to improve vision, but rather to stabilize it and prevent worsening. It is also true that inclusion criteria for that study were based on the presence of “clinically significant” macular edema threatening the macula, even if the visual acuity was not yet reduced. For this reason, it has been argued that the study enrolled patients with excellent visual acuity, making it difficult to demonstrate small improvements in vision after laser treatment. Due to the recent evidence on the efficacy and safety of anti-VEGF therapy for diabetic macular edema, different modalities of laser therapy have been proposed. Laser may be able to stabilize macular edema and reduce the need for multiple anti-VEGF injections. Modified ETDRS laser techniques include lower
