Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


different modalities of laser therapy have been proposed. Laser may be able to stabilize macular edema and reduce the need for multiple anti-VEGF injections. Modified ETDRS laser techniques include lower intensity laser burns, and they take particular care in maintaining a greater space from the center of the fovea ( 93 ). Subthreshold laser therapy and minimalistic fluorescein angiography-guided treatment of microaneurysms may also induce less damage to the macula than the classic ETDRS approach ( 94 ). Figure 15. Focal laser scars in the macula following treatment for macular edema (arrow). Edema has resolved. (Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, Dept. of Ophthalmology). Laser Photocoagulation for PDR Scatter laser photocoagulation, also known as panretinal photocoagulation (PRP), is an important treatment modality for PDR and severe NPDR ( 92 ). Laser spots are placed from outside the major vascular arcades to the equator of the eye, with burns spaced approximately 1/2 to 1 burn width apart ( Figure 16 , 17 ). Although the treatment destroys normal retina, the central vision is unaffected since all spots are placed outside the macula. The theory underlying this treatment is that photocoagulation of the ischemic peripheral retina decreases the elaboration of vasoproliferative factors contributing to PDR. Indeed, VEGF levels in the vitreous are increased in eyes with neovascularization, and they are lower after scatter photocoagulation ( 95 ). Other factors such as insulin-like growth factor-1 are similarly elevated in the vitreous of eyes with PDR ( 96 ). Side effects of scatter photocoagulation can include decreased night vision and dark adaptation, and visual field loss. The procedure can be painful, so treatment may be divided into several sessions, and either topical or retrobulbar anesthesia may be used. Figure 16. Scatter photocoagulation scars in an eye with active PDR. Note that all scatter laser scars are located outside the macula. (UCSF Department of Ophthalmology). Figure 17. View of laser scars superior to the macula in the same eye. Spots are approximately one-half burn width apart. In the treated area, the retinal vessels are sclerotic (arrows). (UCSF Department of Ophthalmology). The Diabetic Retinopathy Study evaluated the effects of scatter photocoagulation in over 1700 patients with PDR or severe NPDR. Patients had one eye randomized to treatment and one eye to observation. Treatment was shown to reduce severe visual loss by 50% ( 97 ). The ETDRS also found a positive risk-benefit ratio for early scatter treatment
