Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


and one eye to observation. Treatment was shown to reduce severe visual loss by 50% ( 97 ). The ETDRS also found a positive risk-benefit ratio for early scatter treatment in patients with severe NPDR or early PDR. Interestingly, a subsequent study demonstrated that scatter laser performed at a single sitting was not worse than treatment divided over four sessions in terms of inducing macular edema or decreasing visual acuity ( 98 ). Panretinal photocoagulation may induce or aggravate diabetic macular edema, reduce contrast sensitivity and affect the peripheral visual field ( 85 ). Macular edema can be approached by focal laser or intravitreal injections before or at the time of panretinal photocoagulation. However, it is not recommended to delay panretinal photocoagulation in high-risk PDR. The Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research network (DRCR) study protocol S has shown that intravitreal anti-VEGF agents may be a substitute for panretinal laser treatment ( 99 ). This multicenter randomized clinical trial compared ranibizumab to PRP in patients with PDR. Mean visual acuity letter improvement at 2 years was +2.8 in the ranibizumab group vs +0.2 in the PRP group (P < 0.001). Mean peripheral visual field sensitivity loss was worse, vitrectomy was more frequent, and DME development was more common in the PRP group. Further studies are needed in order to evaluate the long-term implications of using anti-VEGF agents alone. Ranibizumab may be a reasonable treatment alternative to consider for patients with severe NPDR or non-high-risk PDR who can follow-up regularly. Corticosteroids for DME It has been demonstrated that corticosteroids stabilize the blood-retinal barrier, inhibiting leukostasis and modulating the expression of VEGF receptor ( 100 ). On this basis, periocular and intraocular injections and sustained-release steroid implants have been utilized for the treatment of diabetic macular edema. It should be remembered that any of these different methods to deliver corticosteroids to the macula carry a potential risk of increasing the intraocular pressure (glaucoma) and inducing cataract. The use of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide has become accepted as a treatment option for diabetic macular edema. Several formulations are available: Kenalog-40, which has a black box warning against intraocular use, and the preservative-free Triesence. Preliminary data from a randomized clinical trial showed that intravitreal corticosteroids induced a noticeable improvement of visual acuity and foveal thickness in patients with severe, refractory DME ( 101 ). However, intravitreal steroids do not appear to be more efficacious than laser treatment
