Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


noticeable improvement of visual acuity and foveal thickness in patients with severe, refractory DME ( 101 ). However, intravitreal steroids do not appear to be more efficacious than laser treatment in giving a stable, sustained improvement in vision in the long run, as demonstrated by a recent large study ( 102 ). A peribulbar corticosteroid injection is of particular interest for eyes with DME that have good visual acuity where the risks of an intravitreal injection may not be justified. Any intravitreal injection through the pars plana, in fact, may directly damage the crystalline lens or cause a severe, sight-threatening infection of the eye (bacterial endophthalmitis). Unfortunately, in 2007 a randomized clinical trial showed that peribulbar triamcinolone, with or without focal photocoagulation, is not effective in cases of mild DME with good visual acuity ( 103 ). The fact that triamcinolone maintains measurable concentrations in the vitreous cavity for approximately 3 months stimulated further studies on sustained-release or biodegradable intraocular implants that can deliver steroids for a longer period of time. A fluocinolone acetonide implant (Retisert) was investigated in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial for the treatment of diabetic macular edema. Although the efficacy of this surgically implanted material was demonstrated, it induced cataract in virtually all phakic patients and severe glaucoma needing surgery in 28% of eyes ( 104 , 105 ). A biodegradable dexamethasone implant (Ozurdex), FDA-approved for the treatment of DME, has demonstrated similar efficacy with more acceptable side effects. At day 90, a visual acuity improvement of 10 letters or more was seen in more eyes in the Ozurdex group (33.3%) than the observation group (12.3%; P = 0.007), but the statistical significance was lost at day 180 ( 106 ). The implant was generally well tolerated. A smaller device releasing fluocinolone acetonide, implantable suturelessly with an office procedure thorough a 25-gauge needle (Iluvien), is also FDA-approved for treatment of DME . This implant has been evaluated in the FAME (Fluocinolone Acetonide in Diabetic Macular Edema) study where 956 patients were randomized worldwide ( 107 ). At month 36, the percentage of patients who gained ≥15 in letter score was 28% compared with 19% (P = 0.018) in the sham group. In patients who reported duration of DME ≥3 years at baseline; the percentage who gained ≥15 in letter score at month 36 was 34.0% compared with 13.4%. Almost all phakic patients in the insert group
