Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


of DME ≥3 years at baseline; the percentage who gained ≥15 in letter score at month 36 was 34.0% compared with 13.4%. Almost all phakic patients in the insert group developed cataract, but their visual benefit after cataract surgery was similar to that in pseudophakic patients. The rate of glaucoma surgery at month 36 was 5% ( 108 ). Anti-VEGF Drugs for DR and DME Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an angiogenic factor that plays a key role in the breakdown of the blood–retina barrier and is significantly elevated in eyes with diabetic macular edema ( 109 ). Antibody fragments that bind VEGF and inhibit angiogenesis were first developed as intraocular injection for the treatment of exudative age-related macular degeneration. These anti-VEGF drugs have been used for the treatment of DR and DME with favorable results. The first agent that became available was Pegaptanib 0.3 mg (Macugen) ( 110 ). A randomized trial demonstrated after 2 years of therapy a gain of 6.1 letters in the pegaptanib arm versus 1.3 letters for sham (P<0.01) ( 111 ). Since it is targeted to the isoform VEGF-165 only, it is generally considered very safe but less effective than newer anti-VEGF drugs. Bevacizumab (Avastin), directed to all the isoforms of VEGF, has been used off-label for the treatment of DME worldwide. The first evidence came from a study on 121 patients with DME followed over 3 months in a phase II randomized clinical trial ( 112 ). The BOLT study demonstrated a mean gain of 8.6 letters for bevacizumab versus a mean loss of 0.5 letters when compared to classic macular laser. The patients received a mean of 13 injections over two years, and the treatment was well tolerated with no progression of macular ischemia ( 113 ). Ranibizumab (Lucentis) binds all isoforms of VEGF and is FDA-approved for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. In the Ranibizumab for Edema of the Macula in Diabetes (READ-2) study, ranibizumab-only was superior to laser and to combined therapy ( 114 ). The RESTORE study confirmed that ranibizumab monotherapy and combined with laser was superior to standard laser. At 1 year, no differences were detected between the ranibizumab and ranibizumab plus laser arms ( 115 ). A larger DRCR study supported ranibizumab plus prompt or deferred photocoagulation as a mainstay of current therapy for patients with DME ( 116 ). In the
