Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


arms ( 115 ). A larger DRCR study supported ranibizumab plus prompt or deferred photocoagulation as a mainstay of current therapy for patients with DME ( 116 ). In the RESOLVE study, at month 12, mean visual acuity improved from baseline by 10.3±9.1 letters with ranibizumab and declined by 1.4±14.2 letters with sham (P<0.0001) ( 117 ). The RISE and RIDE studies confirmed the efficacy and the safety of intravitreal monthly injections of ranibizumab with similar results ( 118 ). Efficacy against DR progression and improvement of diabetic retinopathy severity was also demonstrated in multiple studies. Aflibercept 2 mg (Eylea), active against all VEGF-A isoforms, is also FDA-approved for the treatment of DR and DME. In the DA-VINCI study, the different dose regimens of aflibercept demonstrated a mean improvement in visual acuity of 10 to 13 letters versus -1.3 letters for the laser group with a large proportion of eyes (about 40%) gaining 15 or more ETDRS letters at week 52 ( 119 ). Aflibercept 8 mg (Eylea HD) was also recently approved for DR and DME treatment, based upon the results of the PHOTON trial, offering the possibility of longer duration of action and fewer injections per year, as well as potentially improved efficacy in recalcitrant cases ( 120 ). The Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network Protocol T compared bevacizumab, ranibizumab, and aflibercept in the treatment of center-involving DME ( 121 ). When the initial visual-acuity loss was mild, there were no significant differences among study groups. However, at worse levels of initial visual acuity (20/50 or worse), aflibercept was more effective than bevacizumab. The differences between bevacizumab and ranibizumab and between ranibizumab and aflibercept were not statistically significant. Of note, after 6 months of treatment, over 20% of patients in each anti-VEGF treatment group had persistent DME, suggesting that control of other mechanisms beyond VEGF are necessary to achieve optimal outcomes in the treatment of DME. Bispecific Anti-VEGF and Anti-Angiopoeitin-2 Therapy Faricimab (Vabysmo) is the first bispecific molecule approved for treatment of retinal disease, offering blockade of both VEGF and Ang2. The Ang1-Tie2 pathway promotes vascular stability; Ang2 interferes with Tie2 signaling, so its blockade is believed to have favorable effects for angiogenic diseases. The YOSEMITE and RHINE studies assessed the effect of faricimab on DME, finding that vision outcomes for faricimab administered on a variable injection schedule known as treat-and-extend were noninferior to aflibercept injected every 8
