Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


studies assessed the effect of faricimab on DME, finding that vision outcomes for faricimab administered on a variable injection schedule known as treat-and-extend were noninferior to aflibercept injected every 8 weeks. Treatment was able to be given every 16 weeks in some patients, offering a possibility of increased convenience and reduced injection-related risks in those patients able to receive fewer injections ( 122 ). Currently, on the basis of the above evidence, anti-VEGF or bispecific anti-VEGF and anti-ang2 therapy is first-line therapy for center-involving macular edema, with possible deferred focal laser treatment. It should be mentioned that adverse side effects associated with intravitreal injections are uncommon but severe and include infectious endophthalmitis, cataract formation, retinal detachment, and elevated IOP. Vitrectomy Surgery for PDR Surgery may be necessary for eyes in advanced PDR with either vitreous hemorrhage or retinal detachment. In the case of vitreous hemorrhage, many cases will clear spontaneously. For this reason, clinicians often wait 3 to 6 months or more before performing vitrectomy surgery. If surgery is indicated because of persistent non-clearing hemorrhage, retinal detachment involving the macula, or vitreous hemorrhage with neovascularization of the anterior chamber angle (a precursor of neovascular glaucoma), then vitrectomy is performed via a pars plana approach. The vitreous is removed, fibrovascular membranes are dissected away from the retina, retinal detachment is repaired, and scatter laser treatment is applied at the time of surgery via direct intraocular application. The Diabetic Retinopathy Vitrectomy Study assessed the value of early vitrectomy in patients with severe PDR. The study found that early intervention increased the likelihood of obtaining 20/40 vision or better in eyes with recent severe vitreous hemorrhage or severe PDR. Compared with 15% of control eyes, 25% of treated eyes achieved this level of vision at 2 years ( 109 ). In type 1 diabetes, the benefit of early surgery was even more pronounced, with 36% of treated eyes achieving 20/40 vision compared to 12% of control eyes. The importance of this study, performed between 1976 and 1983 when vitrectomy techniques were much less advanced than they are today, was that it showed conventional “watch and wait” management will not necessarily lead to the best visual outcomes in cases of severe PDR. In practice, clinicians evaluate the risks and benefits of each option before proceeding with scatter photocoagulation, vitrectomy, or observation in such cases. Recently, the DRCR Protocol D evaluated the effects of pars
