Diabetic Retinopathy
KEYWORDS: diabetes, patients, diabetic, retinopathy, pubmed, diabetic retinopathy, group, type, study, treatment, type diabetes, control, macular, edema, macular edema


clinicians evaluate the risks and benefits of each option before proceeding with scatter photocoagulation, vitrectomy, or observation in such cases. Recently, the DRCR Protocol D evaluated the effects of pars plana vitrectomy in eyes with moderate vision loss from DME and vitreomacular traction. Although retinal thickness was generally reduced, visual acuity results were less consistent ( 123 ). Vitrectomy for refractory, chronic diabetic macular edema in the absence of vitreomacular traction should be reserved to selected cases. Intravitreal ocriplasmin (Jetrea) is able to induce enzymatic vitreolysis and posterior vitreous detachment and could have a role, eventually associated with vitrectomy, in the treatment of vitreomacular traction and macular edema in diabetic retinopathy ( 124 ). NOVEL THERAPIES FOR DIABETIC RETINOPATHY Current therapies are limited in their ability to reverse vision loss in diabetic retinopathy. For example, although focal laser photocoagulation can help stabilize vision by reducing macular edema, it rarely improves vision. Corticosteroids induce cataract progression and intraocular pressure elevation. Anti-VEGF agents do not increase cataract formation rates but they generally need more frequent intravitreal injections, carrying the risk of endophthalmitis; they can temporary increase IOP; they might have systemic adverse effects. For addressing these issues, new sustained-release devices are being designed, and studies are ongoing to test new intravitreal medications. The development of new treatment modalities is being guided by an understanding of the mechanisms of the disease. From this perspective, researchers are now focusing on the role of inflammation on DME. NSAIDs, anti-TNF agents (Etanercept and Remicade), mecamylamine (an antagonist of nACh receptors), and intravitreal erythropoietin are currently under investigation for the treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema ( 125 ). In order to create a national taskforce to study and treat diabetic retinopathy, in 2002 the National Eye Institute funded the DRCR, a collaborative network dedicated to design and carry out multicenter clinical trials on diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. The DRCR network currently includes over 150 participating sites with over 500 physicians throughout the United States. The DRCR Network has an ongoing project to study genes involved in diabetic retinopathy. CONCLUSION Retinopathy remains a challenging complication of diabetes that can adversely affect a patient’s quality of life. Although ophthalmologists can often stabilize the condition or reduce vision loss, prevention and early detection remain the most effective ways to preserve good vision in patients with diabetes. Ensuring tight glucose and blood pressure control and referring patients for
