Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


in part for the rise in TSH secretion. In most studies , exposure of adults to cold or even intensive hypothermia has produced no changes, 5,6 or at best minimal increases 7 in serum TSH. More prolonged exposure to cold generally results in maintenance of the total T4 (TT4) and free T4 (fT4) levels with maintenance of a normal or decreased total T3 (TT3) and free T3 (fT3) levels. 7a,7b , however, others have shown prolonged arctic residence leads the increase in TSH to be associates with an increase in, thyroglobulin and T3.. 7c These alterations may be partly the consequence of a direct effect of temperature on the rate and pathways of thyroid hormone metabolism with more rapid production and clearance of T3. Altered kinetics have been demonstrated in humans 7 d , but have been more thoroughly studied in animals. 8,9,9a ,9b It has been more difficult to show a clear seasonal variation in serum hormone concentration. However, the variation demonstrated in several studies 10,11 has been that T4 and T3 values are higher during the colder months. Cold exposure in animals leads to thyroid gland hyperplasia, enhanced hormonal secretion, degradation, and excretion, accompanied by an increased demand for dietary iodine. All of these effects are presumably due to an increased need for thyroid hormone by peripheral tissues. The prompt activation of pituitary TSH secretion after cold exposure of the rats 12,13 is possibly due in part to a direct effect on the hypothalamus. 14 Exposure to cold has also resulted in augmented TRH production, and serum levels, 16 and blunted responses of TSH to exogenous TRH. 17 These effects have not been reproduced by other laboratories 13,18 although an increase in thyroid hormone secretion has been clearly demonstrated. 6,19,20 In the rat, it is associated with augmented rates of T4 and T3 deiodination, increased conversion of T4 to T3, and enhanced hepatic binding and biliary and fecal clearance of the iodothyronines. 8,9,9a,21,22 Finally, thyroid hormone effects may be enhanced by alterations in co-activators which enhance the activity of thyroid hormone receptors on gene activation. 22a Effects of Heat In general, an increase in ambient temperature has produced effects opposite to those observed during cold exposure, although the effects of heat have not been extensively investigated. As indicated above, thyroid hormone levels in serum tend to be lower during the summer months. A decrease in the serum T3
