Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


effects of heat have not been extensively investigated. As indicated above, thyroid hormone levels in serum tend to be lower during the summer months. A decrease in the serum T3 concentration, with reciprocal changes in the levels of rT3, have been observed in normal subjects acutely exposed to heat and during febrile illnesses. 23,24 In the latter condition, the contribution of the rise in body temperature relative to other effects of systemic illness cannot be dissociated. A decrease in the elevated serum TSH level associated with primary hypothyroidism has been induced by increases in body temperature. 25 High Altitude and Anoxia Acute elevations in serum T4 and T3 concentrations occur in humans during the early period of exposure to high altitude. 26 Increases in the rate of T4 degradation and thyroidal RAIU have also been reported. 27,28 At very high elevations (5400-6300 m), elevations in T4, fT4, T3, and TSH with a normal fT3 have been reported. 28a When compared to those residing at sea level, individuals adapted to altitude were noted to have a lower T4 with higher fT4 and fT3 levels and a normal TSH response to TRH. 28b Moderate, transient increases in oxygen consumption, not a result of sympathetic activation, were found in one study. 28 The responses of rats exposed to high altitude or anoxia seem to be quite different. Thyroidal iodinative activity and T4 formation are diminished. 29-31 The partial reversal of these changes by the administration of TSH led the authors of these studies to conclude that the primary effect is probably diminished TSH secretion. Alterations in Light Pinealectomy induces a moderate increase in thyroid weight, 32 and continuous light exposure 33 increases the T4 secretion rate of rats by about 20%. In squirrels, continuous darkness produces a decrease in thyroid weight and T4 levels 33a , but this effect is blocked by pinealectomy. 33a These studies suggest that melatonin has an inhibitory effect on thyroid gland function. 33a,34 A nocturnal increase in Type II deiodinase activity Is blocked by exposure to continuous light. 34a Although the retinas of rat pups reared in total darkness are totally devoid of TRH, the content of TRH in the hypothalamus remains unaltered. 35 The diurnal variation in hypothalamic TRH content, reflecting both rhythmic synthesis and secretion, is, however, blunted in the absence of cyclical light changes. Little is known about the effect of light on the thyroid
