Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


hypothalamic TRH content, reflecting both rhythmic synthesis and secretion, is, however, blunted in the absence of cyclical light changes. Little is known about the effect of light on the thyroid in humans. The normal TSH rhythm can be reset by a pulse of light. 35a Nutrition Since thyroid hormone plays a central role in the regulation of total body metabolism, it is not surprising that nutritional factors may profoundly alter the regulation, supply, and disposal of this thermogenic hormone. Although many dietary changes can affect the thyroid economy, the most striking and important effects are related to alterations in total caloric intake and the supply of iodine. The changes associated with caloric deprivation appear homeostatic in nature producing alterations in thyroid hormones which would conserve energy through a reduction in catabolic expenditure. The changes observed with a deficiency or excess of iodine supply generally serve to maintain an adequate synthesis and supply of thyroid hormone, principally through modifications in thyroidal iodide accumulation and binding. Starvation and Fasting Multiple alterations in thyroid hormone regulation and metabolism have been noted during caloric restriction. The most dramatic effect is a decrease in the serum TT3 within 24-48 hours of the initiation of fasting. 36-40b Because changes in the free T3 fraction are usually small, the absolute concentration of FT3 is also reduced, clearly into the hypothyroid range The marked reduction in serum T3 is caused by a reduction in its generation from T4 rather than by an acceleration in its metabolic clearance rate. 41,42 The decline in T3 concentration is accompanied by a concomitant and reciprocal change in the concentration of total and free rT3. The increase in the serum rT3 concentration tends to begin later and to return to normal at the time serum T3 is being maintained at a low level with continuous calorie deprivation. 38,39 Little change occurs in the concentrations of TT4 and FT4 and the production and metabolic clearance rates of T4. 38,39,41,42 When small changes have been observed, they were generally in the direction of an increase in the FT4 concentration. They are attributed to decreased concentration of the carrier proteins in serum, as well as to their diminished association with the hormone caused by the inhibitory effect of free fatty acids (FFA) the level of which increases during fasting. 40,43 Decreased outer ring monodeiodination (5'-deiodinase activity) would explain both the decreased generation of T3 from T4
