Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


effect of free fatty acids (FFA) the level of which increases during fasting. 40,43 Decreased outer ring monodeiodination (5'-deiodinase activity) would explain both the decreased generation of T3 from T4 and the excess accumulation of rT3. This hypothesis seems to be fully supported by in vitro studies using liver tissue from fasted fats. 44 It is further supported by the finding of increased generation and serum concentration of 3',5'-T 2 and 3'-T 1 and decreased 3,5-T 2 and 3,3'-T2. 44-47 However, a less important increase in the monodeiodination of the inner ring of T4 (5-deiodination) 42 explains the temporal dissociation of changes in serum T3 and rT3 concentration. A decrease in plasma T3 after fasting with an increase in hepatic type III deiodinase activity and mRNA has also been noted in chickens. 47a An increase in the nondeiodinative pathway of T4 degradation with the formation of Tetrac has been also reported. 48 Considerable controversy remains regarding the mechanisms responsible for the observed changes in the rates of the deiodinative pathways of iodothyronines. Decreased generation of nonprotein sulfhydryls (NP-SH) as a cause of the reduction in 5'-deiodinase activity was suggested on the basis of the observed enhancement in enzyme activity by the in vitro addition of dithiothreitol. Reduced glutathione and NADPH had a similar effect. 49 Although Chopra's 50 direct measurements of NP-SH in tissue during fasting seemed to confirm this hypothesis, the precise mechanism is likely more complex. Decreased tissue NP-SH content does not always correlate with the inhibition of T3 generation, which may be restored by glucose refeeding independently of changes in NP-SH content. 50,51 Composition of the diet rather than reduction in the total calorie intake seems to determine the occurrence of decreased T3 generation in peripheral tissues during food deprivation. The dietary content of carbohydrate appears to be the key ingredient since as little as 50 g glucose reverses toward normal the fast-induced changes in T3 and rT3. 52 Replacement of dietary carbohydrate with fat results in changes typical of starvation. 39,53 Refeeding of protein may partially improve the rate of T3 generation, but the protein may be acting as a source of glucose through gluconeogenesis. 54 Yet, dietary glucose is not the sole agent responsible for all changes in iodothyronine metabolism associated with starvation. For example, the increase in serum rT3 concentration may not be solely dependent on carbohydrate deprivation since a pure protein diet partially
