Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


all changes in iodothyronine metabolism associated with starvation. For example, the increase in serum rT3 concentration may not be solely dependent on carbohydrate deprivation since a pure protein diet partially restores the level of rT3 but not that of T3 39 (Fig. 5-1). The composition of the antecedent diet also has an effect on the magnitude of the serum T3 fall during fasting. 39,52 It is possible that the cytoplasmic redox state, measured in terms of the lactate/pyruvate ratio rather than glucose itself, regulates the rate of deiodinative pathways of iodothyronines. 55 The basal serum TSH level during calorie deprivation is either normal or low, the response to TRH is blunted 37-39 and the normal nocturnal rise in TSH is blunted. 40a These changes are quite surprising given the consistent and profound decrease in serum FT3 levels. Several hypothesis have been proposed to explain this paradox. Because the pituitary is able to continue to respond appropriately during fasting to both suppressive and stimulatory signals, 56 it has been suggested that starvation only "resets" the set point of feedback regulation. A more plausible hypothesis, supported by experimental data, 57,58 proposes that the pituitary is regulated by the intracellular concentration of T3, which may remain unaltered through factors ensuring its continuous local generation during starvation, whereas a decrease is typically found in other tissues. Further support for this hypothesis comes from a recent study demonstrating that fasting produces a marked increase in hypothalamic Type II Deiodinase mRNA 58a which would enhance local T3 production. This hypothesis gives credence to the preservation of a closer inverse relationship between serum FT4 and TSH than between FT3 and TSH. Hypothalamic TRH content in starved rats has been reported to be normal, 59 low 60 or even elevated. 60a The elevation of TRH was accompanied by normal levels of proTRH mRNA and decreased pituitary TSH; it was suggested that this represented decreased TRH release. 60a In a different study of starved rats, the hypothalamic proTRH mRNA and the TRH content were both decreased, 60b but these effects were reversed by adrenalectomy suggesting that they were secondary to increased glucocorticoid levels. 60b Neonatal starvation in rats leads to diminished TRH and TSH production, with resultant hypothyroidism and growth retardation. 61 Starvation produces a greater than 50% decrease in the maximal binding capacity of T3 to rat liver nuclear receptors within 48 hours. 62 Although accompanied by a
