Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


growth retardation. 61 Starvation produces a greater than 50% decrease in the maximal binding capacity of T3 to rat liver nuclear receptors within 48 hours. 62 Although accompanied by a diminution of almost equal magnitude in the nuclear T3 content, it is unlikely that the observed change represents an alteration of the receptor content by the hormone as the more profound diminution of nuclear T3 content associated with hypothyroidism does not produce changes in the maximal binding capacity of T3 in rat liver nuclei. The reduction in maximal binding capacity has been demonstrated to coincide with a reduction in the level of the thyroid hormone receptors. 62a The affinity of the rat liver T3 receptor is not affected by starvation. 62,63 Studies in humans have used circulating mononuclear cells and, probably due to the limited choice of tissue, results have been either equivocal or negative. 64 Other hormonal and metabolic changes during fasting may account for the observed alterations in the regulation and metabolism of thyroid hormones. Among them are the increase in plasma cortisol and suppression of adrenergic stimuli. 65 Both changes are known to induce independently a decrease in the serum T3 concentration by inhibition of T4 to T3 conversion in peripheral tissues (see below). Accordingly, they may be partly responsible for the decrease in T3 neogenesis during starvation. There is likely a highly complex interplay between the changes in thyroid hormone and the many metabolic changes of starvation. In addition to a direct effect of glucose, changes in FFA, ketosis, and the redox state may influence thyroid hormone metabolism, while T3 itself may impact hepatic glucose production. 40b Two major issues of theoretical and practical importance remain unresolved - do the observed changes in thyroid function produce some degree of hypothyroidism, and is this state beneficial to the energy-deprived organism? Although the suppressed serum TSH response to TRH suggests that the starving organism does not suffer from a significant deprivation in thyroid hormone, other observations indicate the contrary. The decreased pulse rate, systolic time interval, oxygen consumption, and decrease in activity of some liver enzymes are suggestive of hypothyroidism at the level of peripheral tissues. 66 Furthermore, administration of T3 to restore its serum level to normal during fasting increased the production and excretion of urea and 3-methylhistidine. 56,67 Larger doses of T3, given during fasting, had even more profound effects. These effects included dramatic increased in
