Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


during fasting increased the production and excretion of urea and 3-methylhistidine. 56,67 Larger doses of T3, given during fasting, had even more profound effects. These effects included dramatic increased in the excretion of urea and creatine, and increased plasma levels of ketones and FFA indicating an accelerated protein and fat breakdown. 68 Such evidence leaves little doubt that the decrease in T3 generation during calorie deprivation has an energy- and nitrogen-sparing effect. It is tempting to speculate that the result is beneficial in the adaptation to malnutrition through reduction in metabolic expenditure. Fasting is not only a useful model for studying the effects of calorie deprivation on thyroid hormone but is also the prototype of the "low T3 syndrome". 69 The latter is produced by a number of chemical agents and drugs, and accompanies a variety of nonthyroidal illnesses. It is possible that malnutrition, concomitant in a number of acute and chronic illnesses, is in part responsible for some of the observed changes in thyroid physiology. Protein-Calorie Malnutrition (PCM) As in the case of starvation, PCM is associated with a low serum T3 concentration and increased rT3 levels, probably due to similar changes in iodothyronine monodeiodination. However, important differences exist between the abnormalities in thyroid function observed in PCM and acute calorie deprivation. Most reports indicate important decreases in TBG and TTR concentrations, and there are also indications of hormone binding abnormalities. 70,71 As a consequence, the free concentrations of both T4 and T3 are usually normal. 70,72,72a Recovery is associated with restoration of the level of serum thyroid hormones and binding proteins. Despite an accelerated turnover time, the absolute amount of extrathyroidal T4 disposed each day is reduced. Refeeding restores the T4 kinetics to normal. 70 The thyroidal RAIU is reduced due to a defect in the iodine-concentrating mechanism. 73 The most striking difference between starvation and PCM is the finding the latter of an exaggerated and sustained TSH response to TRH, with basal TSH levels either elevated or normal. 70,72,72a,72b,74 The experimental model of protein malnutrition in the rat yielded different results from those observed in humans. Serum T4 and T3 levels were found to be both elevated. 75 However, in the lamb, as in humans, chronic malnutrition leads to a lower rate of T4 utilization. 76 Overfeeding and Obesity Overfeeding produces an increase in the serum T3 concentration as a result of an increased conversion of T4
