Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


leads to a lower rate of T4 utilization. 76 Overfeeding and Obesity Overfeeding produces an increase in the serum T3 concentration as a result of an increased conversion of T4 to T3. It is particularly marked when the excess calories are given in the form of carbohydrates. 77 Thus, it appears that the effect of overnutrition on iodothyronine metabolism is the opposite of that of starvation. This finding gives further credence to the speculation that changes in thyroid hormone may serve to modulate the homeostasis of energy expenditure. Although it has been reported that serum T3 concentrations correlate with body weight, 78 it appears that this phenomenon reflects the effect of an increase in caloric intake on T3 production. Most studies find that obese subjects have normal thyroid function and hormone metabolism. 79 Furthermore, no abnormalities in the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis have been demonstrated in obese subjects. Minerals Iodine. Of the many minerals that may affect thyroid function, iodine is the most important. It is an essential substrate for thyroid hormone synthesis and also interacts with the function of the thyroid gland at several levels. Acute administration of increasing doses of iodide enhances total hormone synthesis until a critical level of intrathyroidal iodide is reached. Beyond this level, iodide organification and hormone synthesis are blocked (the acute Wolff-Chaikoff block). Chronic or repeated administration of moderate to large doses of iodine causes a decrease in iodide transport resulting in a decrease in its intrathyroidal concentration. The latter relieves the Wolff-Chaikoff block and is known as the escape or adaptation phenomenon. Although the exact mechanisms of the block and escape remain unknown, they appear to be autoregulatory in nature since they are independent of pituitary TSH secretion. Iodoloactones may play a role in the induction of the Wolff-Chaikoff block. 80 One mechanism through which iodide acts is via desensitization of the thyroid gland to TSH. In TSH stimulated glands, iodine rapidly reduces the level of the mRNA for thyroid peroxidase (TPO) and the Na/I symporter (NIS) but not for thyroglobulin (Tg) or the TSH receptor (TSHr). 80a Iodine also antagonizes TSH stimulated thyrocyte proliferation. 80a In FRTL-5 cells, iodine blocks the TSH stimulation of Tg synthesis but does not alter the level of the Tg mRNA. 80b These actions occur without a change in TSH receptor number, and may, in part, be via an action on adenylyl cyclase. 80c More detailed description is
