Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


the Tg mRNA. 80b These actions occur without a change in TSH receptor number, and may, in part, be via an action on adenylyl cyclase. 80c More detailed description is provided in Chapter 2. Another effect of large doses of iodine, apparently independent of TSH and hormone synthesis, is the prompt inhibition of hormone release. It has been exploited to achieve rapid amelioration of thyrotoxicosis in Graves' disease and toxic nodular goiters (see Chapters 11 and 13). In normal persons, the inhibitory effect of large doses of iodine on thyroid hormone release produces a transient decrease in the serum concentration of T4 and T3. It causes, in turn, a compensatory increase in serum TSH, which stimulates hormone secretion and thus counteracts the effect of iodine. 81,82 The mechanisms of thyroidal autoregulation are believed to serve the purpose of accommodating wide and rapid fluctuations in iodine supply. The most intriguing effects of iodine are the involution of hyperplasia and the decrease in vascularity that occur when the ion is administered to patients with diffuse toxic goiter. Iodine may be able to induce apoptosis in thyroid cells. 82a,82b Under different circumstances, iodide may intensify the hyperplasia and produce a goiter (Chapter 20). Iodine deficiency used to be the leading cause of goiter in the world and still remains so in certain regions. When severe, it can cause hypothyroidism and cretinism, described in detail in Chapter 20 . In the United States and the rest of the developed world, untoward effects from excess iodine supplementation or the use of iodine-containing compounds are more common than problems related to iodine deficiency. Excess iodine can be responsible for the development of goiter, hypothyroidism, and thyrotoxicosis. However, it should be emphasized that these complications usually occur in persons with underlying defects of thyroid function who are unable to utilize the normal adaptive mechanisms. Iodide-induced goiter (iodide goiter), without or with hypothyroidism (iodide myxedema), is encountered with greater frequency in patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis or previously treated Graves' disease. 83,84 Other predisposed persons include those who have undergone partial thyroid gland resection, patients with defects of hormonogenesis, and some with cystic fibrosis. 85 Drugs such as phenazone, 86,87 lithium, 88 sulfadiazine, 89 and cycloheximide 90 may act synergistically with iodide to induce goiter and/or hypothyroidism. More rarely, ingestion of excess iodide may cause thyrotoxicosis (iodide-induced thyrotoxicosis or Jodbasedow). 90a This was initially observed with the introduction of
