Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


synergistically with iodide to induce goiter and/or hypothyroidism. More rarely, ingestion of excess iodide may cause thyrotoxicosis (iodide-induced thyrotoxicosis or Jodbasedow). 90a This was initially observed with the introduction of iodine prophylaxis in areas of endemic iodine deficiency. 91,92 It has also been observed after the administration of iodide in excess to patients with nodular thyroid disease residing in areas of moderate iodine deficiency or even iodine sufficiency. 93,94 Although the exact mechanism of induction of thyrotoxicosis remains obscure, it may be related to the stimulation of increased thyroid hormone synthesis in areas of the gland with autonomous nodular activity. Ingestion of excess iodide by a gravid woman may cause an iodide goiter in the fetus, and if the gland is large enough it may result in asphyxia during the postnatal period (Chapter 20). Consumption of Kombu, the iodine-rich seaweed, is responsible for the occurrence of endemic goiter in the Japanese island of Hokkaido. 95 It has also been suggested that the increase in dietary iodine content in the United States during the last three decades is responsible for the higher recurrence rate of thyrotoxicosis in patients previously treated with antithyroid drugs. 96 Calcium. Calcium is said to be goitrogenic when in the diet in excess. Administration of 2 g calcium per day was associated with decreased iodide clearance by the thyroid. 97 The action is unknown, but it may in some way make overt a borderline dietary iodine deficiency. Calcium also acutely and chronically reduces the absorption of thyroxine. 97a, 97b Nitrate. Nitrate in the diet (0.3 - 0.9%) can interfere with 131 I uptake in the thyroid of rats and sheep. 98 This concentration is found in some types of hay and in silages. Bromine. Bromine is concentrated by the thyroid and interferes with the thyroidal 131 I uptake in animals 99,99a and humans, possibly by competitive inhibition of iodide transport into the gland. Bromine can also induce alterations in cellular architecture, blood supply and can lead to a reduction in T4 and T3 levels. 99b Rubidium. Rubidium is goitrogenic in rats. 100 However, the mechanism of action is unknown. Fluorine. Fluorine is not concentrated by the thyroid but has a mild antithyroid effect, possibly by inhibiting the iodide transport process. 101 In large amounts, it is goitrogenic in animals. The amounts of fluorine consumed in areas with endemic fluorosis are not sufficient to interfere with thyroid function
