Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


117 In rat brain, lithium administration decreased both the levels of the Type II 5’Deiodinase and the Type III 5 Deiodinase. 117a In the rat, lithium may also lead to an alteration in the distribution of thyroid hormone receptors with the alpha 1 isoform being increased in the cortex and decreased in the hypothalamus while the beta isoform was also decreaseed in the hypothalamus. 117b An exaggerated response of TSH to TRH may be seen in a majority of lithium treated patients 110a but an elevated basal TSH is usually absent. An increase in the basal serum TSH concentration and its response to TRH most likely represents an early manifestation of hypothyroidism rather than a direct effect of lithium on the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. 118 The prevalence of goiter has been reported to be as high as 60%. 110a Based on studies in FRTL-5 cells, lithium may have direct mitogenic effects on the thyroid that are independent of TSH and cAMP. 110b The occurrence of hypothyroidism during lithium therapy occurs in 10-40% of lithium treated patients and is far more frequent in women than men. 110a,118a, 118b,118c Although much less frequent, lithium therapy has been associated with the development of thyrotoxicosis. 110a Lithium is also reported to produce exophthalamos during chronic therapy; the condition regresses when treatment is stopped. The phenomenon is a protrusion of the globe but does not involve the other changes of infiltrative ophthalmopathy of Graves' disease. 118,119 Selenium. Selenium is a component of the enzymes glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and superoxide dismutase, both enzymes responsible for protection against free radicals. In addition, Type I 5’Deiodinase also contains selenium. 119a 119c Thus, a deficiency of selenium could predispose the thyroid to oxidative injury and lead to decreased peripheral T3 production. In the elderly, reduced selenium levels have been associated with a decreased T3/T4 ratio. 119b It has been postulated that the combined deficiency of iodine and selenium in Zaire results in myxedematous rather than neurologic cretinism because the decrease in peripheral conversion to T3 results in greater delivery of T4 into the neonatal developing brain. 119c In rats, selenium deficiency led to a decrease in renal but not hepatic Type I 5’ Deiodinase activity and serum T3 levels were unaffected. 119d Selenium deficiency led to decrease GSH-Px activity in the liver, kidney and rbc’s but not the thyroid. 119d Serum T4 was normal when both dietary iodine and selenium
