Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


unaffected. 119d Selenium deficiency led to decrease GSH-Px activity in the liver, kidney and rbc’s but not the thyroid. 119d Serum T4 was normal when both dietary iodine and selenium were both deficient, but was reduced when either was deficient alone. 119d In other studies, brain GSH-Px and Type I deiodinase activity were normal in the presence of iodine or selenium deficiency while brain Type II Deiodinase activity was increased by iodine deficiency and unaffected by selenium deficiency. 119e In contrast in brown adipose tissue (BAT), both selenium and iodine deficiency led to decreased deiodinase activity and decreased production of the uncoupling protein. 119e Treatment of goitrous children with combined seleium and iodine deficiency leads to a reduction in serum TSH and goiter size. 119f The response, however, was correlated with the selenium level with both the goiter and TSH responses being correlated with the baseline selenium level. 119f In an epidemeological study in China, low selenium levels were assocated with an increased ididence of goiter, sub-clinical and overt hypothryoidism and thyroiditis. 119g Physical and Emotional Stress Perhaps the most dramatic study of emotional stress is that reported by Kracht, 120 who found that stress provoked thyrotoxicosis in wild rabbits. Although some stress models may prompt secretion of thyroid hormone in animals, 120,121 this effect is unlikely to occur in humans, at least for a sustained period of time. The stress-induced increase in adrenocortical activity tends not only to suppress TSH release but also to inhibit T3 production. A major problem in the analysis of available date is the difficulty in separating effects produced by non-specific stress from the effects caused by the agents used to induce the stress. Many of the changes in thyroid function described in this chapter under the headings starvation, temperature, altitude and anoxia may be due, in part, to stress. Surgery Surgery has been used as a means to study the effect of stress on thyroid physiology in animals. 122 Studies in humans have been prompted by the suspicion that thyroid hormone may mediate the postoperative metabolic changes leading to increased oxygen consumption and protein wastage. Some discrepancies in available data stem from lack of uniformity in the groups of patients studied in terms of preoperative state or disease, type of surgery, types of anesthetic agents and other drugs used, and the postoperative course, including nutrition and the period of recovery. The most striking change
