Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


preoperative state or disease, type of surgery, types of anesthetic agents and other drugs used, and the postoperative course, including nutrition and the period of recovery. The most striking change in thyroid function is a decrease in the serum TT3 and FT3 concentrations shortly after surgery; rT3 concentrations are elevated in the postoperative period. 123,124 The combined findings suggest a diversion in the normal deiodinative pathways of T4. FT4 levels may also be depressed in the postoperative period, but to a lesser degree. 124 The TTR but not the TBG level is sharply reduced. 125 This clear reduction in the concentration of the active forms of thyroid hormone during the postoperative period is preceded by a small, short-term increase in FT4 and FT3 concentrations during surgery. 123,124 The magnitude of the subsequent reduction in T3 level appears to correlate with the severity of trauma and the morbidity during the postoperative course. 123 The serum TSH concentration also tends to diminish, 124 except during surgery performed in children under the conditions of hypothermia. 2 Because surgical trauma produces a prompt elevation in plasma cortisol levels and food intake is curtailed during the pre-, intra-, and postoperative periods, the possibility that glucocorticoids and starvation are the principal contributors to the observed changes in thyroid function has been given strong consideration. However, Brandt et al. 126 showed equally profound diminution in the serum T3 concentration when surgery was carried out with epidural anesthesia, which abolishes the plasma cortisol surge. Similarly, the almost routine use of glucose infusion should have been able to prevent the changes in serum T3 and rT3 levels if starvation played a major role in producing the changes observed during surgery. Acute Mental Stress Data on the effect of emotional stress on thyroid function in humans are principally derived from studies in patients with psychiatric disturbances. Thus, even if only patients with acute psychiatric decompensation are considered, the results are colored by the nature of the mental illness, its antecedent history, and the use of drugs. An early suggestion of enhanced hormonal secretion came from the observation of elevated protein-bound iodine (PBI) levels in the serum of psychiatric patients presumably under emotional stress and in medical students in the course of examinations. 127 In more recent studies, elevations of the FT4I have been consistently found during admission of acute psychiatric patients. The incidence ranged from 7 to 18%. 128-130 In
