Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


of examinations. 127 In more recent studies, elevations of the FT4I have been consistently found during admission of acute psychiatric patients. The incidence ranged from 7 to 18%. 128-130 In one study, an equal number of patients (9%) had a low FT4I. 128 In most instances, values became normal with time and treatment of the psychiatric illness. The TSH response to TRH is blunted or even absent in most psychiatric patients with elevated FT4I. 130 Significant abnormalities in the serum T3 concentration are rare. CHEMICALS AND DRUGS Goitrogens A number of compounds have the ability to inhibit thyroid hormone synthesis (Fig.5-3). Irrespective of their mechanism of action, they are collectively called goitrogens. As a result of a decrease in serum thyroid hormone levels, TSH secretion is enhanced, causing goiter formation. Some goitrogens occur naturally in food, and others are in drugs with goitrogenic side effects. The least toxic and those possessing the highest thyroid-inhibiting activity are used in the treatment of hyperthyroidism. Dietary Goitrogens The discovery of natural and synthetic substances that impair the synthesis of thyroid hormone are landmarks in the history of pharmacology. 131 These substances are discussed in more detail in Chapter 20. Although iodide deficiency is, without doubt, the major cause of endemic goiter and cretinism throughout the world, dietary goitrogens may play a contributing role in some endemics, and may possibly be the dominant factor in certain areas. The dietary goitrogens fall into several categories, more than one of which may occur in the same food. Certain foods contain cyanogenic glucosides, 132 compounds that, upon hydrolysis by glucosidase, release free cyanide. These foods include almond seeds and such important dietary items as cassava, sorghum, maize, and millet. Cassava contains enough cyanogenic glucoside to be lethal if large quantities are consumed raw. Ordinarily, the root is extensively soaked, then dried and powdered. Most of the cyanide is lost in this process; that left in the root is liberated after ingestion and converted to SCN - . Chronic poisoning due to cassava is responsible for a tropical neuropathy in Nigeria 133 and Tanzania, and is suspected of being a contributing cause of goiter in Central Africa. 134,135 Other important classes of antithyroid compounds arise from hydrolysis of the thioglucosides. 132,136,137 These compounds are metabolized in the body to goitrin or thiocyanates and isothiocyanates, and ultimately to other sulfur containing compounds, or are excreted as such. They are
