Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


the thioglucosides. 132,136,137 These compounds are metabolized in the body to goitrin or thiocyanates and isothiocyanates, and ultimately to other sulfur containing compounds, or are excreted as such. They are important in the goitrogenic activity of seeds of plants of the genus Brassica and the cruciferae, compositae, and unbelliferae. Among the plants containing these compounds are cabbage, kale, brussel sprouts, cauliflower, kohlrabi, turnip, rutabaga, mustard, and horseradish. Myxedema was reported in a woman without previous thyroid disease who consumed extremely large amounts of raw bok choy. 137b Cattle may ingest these goitrogens and pass them to humans through milk, as observed in Australia, 138 Finland, 139,140 and England. 141 . The isothiocynate, cheiroline, occurs in the leaves of choumoellier and may be related to a focal area of endemic goiter in Australia. The goitrogen is thought to be transmitted from forage to cows, to milk, and finally to children. Although there is considerable circumstantial evidence relating these compounds to endemic goiter, it has been difficult to prove their role with certainty. Thiocyanate is a well-known inhibitor of iodide trapping when in high concentration in blood. The blood levels obtained by ingestion of dietary goitrogens are rarely of this degree. Inhibition of iodide trapping, and thyroid peroxidase activity, and augmentation of urinary iodide loss, as demonstrated by Delange and Ermans and co-workers, all may play a role in the goitrogenic activity. 132,134,135 Thiocyanate may also reduce the iodine content of breast milk or animal milk and thus indirectly impact the thyroid function of young children in areas of marginal iodine sufficiency. 141a A study in Thailand found an association between thiocyanate levels and TSH in pregnant women with low iodine excretion. 141b Astwood et al. and Greer 142,143 found that turnips contain progoitrin, which is a mustard oil thioglycoside. It undergoes rearrangement by enzymes in human enteric bacteria, or in the turnip, to be converted to goitrin, an active goitrogenic thioglycoside, L-5-vinyl-2-thio-oxazolidone. 144,145 Goitrin inhibits oxidation of iodine and its binding to thyroid protein in the same way as do the thiocarbamides. Several endemics of goiter have been attributed to dietary goitrogens, usually acting together with iodine deficiency. Goitrin is apparently present in cow's milk in Finland. 146 In the Pedgregoso region of Chile, pine nuts of the tree Araucaria americana are made into a flour and consumed in large amounts, and may be related to endemic goiter. 147,148 In the
