Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


region of Chile, pine nuts of the tree Araucaria americana are made into a flour and consumed in large amounts, and may be related to endemic goiter. 147,148 In the Cauca river valley of Colombia, sulfur-containing compounds found in the water supply, derived from sedimentary rocks containing a large amount of organic matter, are believed to be responsible for endemic goiter. 149 At least, extracts from these waters are goitrogenic in rats. Pearl millet has been reported to cause goiter development in goats. 149a Other mechanisms may also contribute to dietary goitrogenicity. Thus, diets high in soybean components or other materials increasing fecal bulk may cause excess fecal loss of T4 and increase the need for this hormone. 150-153 These diets are low in iodine content, and soybean has been thought but not proven to contain a goitrogen. The goitrogens, by blocking hormone synthesis, deplete the thyroid of iodide; this reduction itself increases the sensitivity of the gland to TSH. 154 This sensitivity, in turn, further promotes goitrogenicity. Antithyroid Drugs According to their principal mode of action on thyroidal iodine metabolism, antithyroid drugs are divided into two categories: (1) the monovalent anions, which inhibit iodide transport into the thyroid gland, and (2) a large number of compounds that act through inhibition of thyroidal iodide binding and iodotyrosine coupling. The most important representatives of this latter category of compounds are the group of thionamides. The effect of the drugs in the first category is counteracted by exposure to excess iodine, whereas iodine has no inhibition, and at times even potentiates, the action of drugs in the second category. Other drugs inhibit thyroid hormone secretion or act through yet unknown mechanism. A list of these agents is provided in Table 5-1 . Monovalent Anions. Certain monovalent anions (SCN - , Cl0 4 - , NO 3 - ) inhibit transport of iodide into the thyroid gland and thereby depress iodide uptake and hormone formation. 164-166 Thiocyanate stimulates efflux of iodide from the thyroid as well, 167 and also inhibits iodide binding and probably coupling. 168,169 A large number of complex anions, such as monofluorosulfonate, difluorophosphate, and fluoroborate, 170 inhibit iodide transport. Of these, fluoroborate, 171 and perchlorate, 172 are concentrated by the thyroid gland. These ions have a molecular volume and charge similar to those of iodide, and may compete with iodide for transport. 170,171 Perchlorate is sufficiently active to be useful
