Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


thyroid gland. These ions have a molecular volume and charge similar to those of iodide, and may compete with iodide for transport. 170,171 Perchlorate is sufficiently active to be useful clinically. 173 Perchlorate and thiocyanate also displace T4 from thyroid hormone-binding serum proteins in vivo and in vitro and cause a transient elevation of free T4. 174 In contrast to the pharmacologic effects of perchlorate, concerns have been raised about the potential health effects of environmental perchlorate exposure, especially in municipal water supplies. Several studies have been unable to detect an increase in hypothyroidism 174a. 174b , congenital hypothyroidism 174c , or thyroid cancer 174d in exposed populations, but a study in Thailand found an association bwteen perchlorate levels and TSH in pregnant women. 141b Thionamides. The thionamide and thiourylene drugs do not prevent transport of iodide into the thyroid gland, but rather impair covalent binding of iodide to TG. 175-177 They may be competitive substrates for thyroid iodide peroxidase, preventing the peroxidation of iodide by this enzyme. In small doses, the thiocarbamides inhibit formation of iodothyronines from iodotyrosyl precursors. When slightly larger amounts are present, iodination of MIT and tyrosine is prevented. 177,178 Minute amounts (10 -8 M) have, paradoxically, a stimulatory effect on iodination in thyroid slices. 179 The basic structure necessary for the antithyroid action of these drugs is N | S | -N=C-X- where X may be C, N, or O 180,181 (Fig. 5-3). The thiocarbamides are metabolized in the thyroid gland by transsulfuration. 182 The enzyme responsible may also be involved in the iodide peroxidase enzyme system. 183 Glands under TSH stimulation metabolize the antithyroid drugs at an accelerated rate, as has been shown for thiourea. 184 Iodide is released more rapidly from a gland blocked by PTU than from one blocked by perchlorate. 165,185 This action occurs presumably because PTU prevents the utilization of all iodide available to the gland (transported from the blood or formed in the gland by deiodination of iodotyrosines), whereas potassium perchlorate prevents uptake of iodide but does not inhibit reutilization of iodide derived from within the gland. T4 disappears from the PTU-blocked rat thyroid at a faster rate than do iodotyrosines. 185 In addition to the effects on the thyroid gland, PTU (and, to a much lesser extent, methimazole) partially inhibits the peripheral deiodination of T4 186-191 and its hormonal action. 188,192-194 PTU acts directly on body tissues to
