Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


thyroid gland, PTU (and, to a much lesser extent, methimazole) partially inhibits the peripheral deiodination of T4 186-191 and its hormonal action. 188,192-194 PTU acts directly on body tissues to inhibit the normal formation of T3 from T4. 191,195 Coincidentally, fecal excretion of T4 increases. 186 In order to inhibit goiter induced by antithyroid drugs in rats, one must maintain the T4 concentration in blood at a higher level that is normal for the species. 188,192 Presumably, inhibition of T4 monodeiodination by the antithyroid drug leads to a buildup of T4 in blood and diminishes the availability of T3 in the tissues. 191 Higher doses of T4 or higher blood levels may be sufficient to push the reaction toward T3 and allow formation of quantities sufficient to prevent goiter. Metabolism of the antithyroid drugs has been observed after administration of 35 S-labeled drugs. Methimazole is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract in humans. It reaches a peak plasma level about an hour after administration, and then declines gradually to near zero levels at 24 hours. These drugs are accumulated and degraded in the thyroid, since they are substrates of the peroxidase. 196,197 Carbimazole is accumulated as its metabolic product, methimazole. The concentration ratio between thyroid and plasma for unmetabolized methimazole in rats may approach 25, eight hours after administration of the drug. The metabolic products derived from the drug are excreted in the urine, largely during the first day. Other Goitrogenic Compounds A number of other drugs, including the aminoheterocyclic compounds and substituted phenols, act as goitrogens principally by impairing TG iodination (Fig. 5-3). They are in general far less potent in their goitrogenic effect than the thionamides. None are used therapeutically as antithyroid drugs; rather, goitrogenesis is an undesirable side effect of their use. Some the compounds have multiple effects and thus influence thyroid physiology at various levels. These compounds are individually discussed in greater detail. A comprehensive list is provided in Table 5-1 . Table 5-1 Agents Inhibiting Thyroid Hormone Synthesis and Secretion View in own window Block iodide transport into the thyroid gland Substance Common Use Monovalent anions (SCN - , Cl0 4 - , N0 3 - ) a Not in current use; Cl0 4 - test agent Complex anions (monofluorosulfonate,difluorophosphate, fluoroborate) a ------- Minerals (bromine, fluorine) In diet Lithium a Treatment of manic-depressive psychosis Ethionamide Antituberculosis drug Impair TG iodination and iodotyrosine coupling Substance Common
