Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


RAIU in humans; the common therapeutic doses (up to 1 g daily) usually have no effect on serum T4. 203 A mild antithyroid action is often reflected in a rise in RAIU, which may be found after the agents are withdrawn. These drugs inhibit hormone synthesis by inhibition of iodide binding. In most instances, the pituitary compensates for the effect and maintains a euthyroid state by increased synthesis of TSH. Nevertheless, hypothyroidism is said to be more common in diabetic patients on sulfonylureas than in patients treated by other means. 204 Sulfonylureas also block binding of T4 to the carrier proteins in serum and thus depress the T4 concentrations. 205 This effect is most pronounced after intravenous administration. Polychlorinated Biphenyls Animal studies have suggested that polchlorinated bihenyls (PCBs) may reduce thyroid hormone levels by decreasing synthesis, increasing biliary excretion of conjugated metabolites and displacing T4 from binding proteins. 205a A review of studies in humans, did not find significant or consistent changes. 205a Effects of Miscellaneous Compounds and Drugs General Mechanisms of Action A large number of substances may affect thyroid gland function and thyroid hormone metabolism and action. The list continues to grow with the introduction of new diagnostic agents, drugs, and food additives. Drugs affect the transport, metabolism, action and excretion of T4 and its derivatives as well as regulation at all levels of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. Some drugs may induce hypothyroidism or thyrotoxicosis, and if autoimmune mechanisms are involved, the thyroid dysfunction may not resolve with discontinuance of the drug. Some compounds may not have any direct effect on thyroid hormone economy or regulation, but have clinical relevance by interfering in specific diagnostic assays. Compounds are discussed and listed below based on their major mechanisms of action. Many drugs have more than one mechanism of action and the explanation for observed abnormalities is not always known. Results of experiments conducted in animals or in vitro are not always applicable to human pathophysiology. Compounds which alter thyroid hormone secretion are generally goitrogens or anti-thyroid drugs and were discussed in the preceeding section. Selected compounds with significant effects on the thyroid, wide-spread use or that are of particular interest in understanding the mechanism of drug effects are described in greater detail. Alterations of Thyroid Hormone Transport Some hormones and drugs may affect thyroid hormone transport in blood by altering the concentration of the binding proteins in serum. Thyroid hormone
