Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


and FT3I). In the steady state, the quantity of thyroid hormone reaching peripheral tissues and the pathways and amount of hormone degradation remain unaltered. However, before this steady state is reached, an acute perturbation in the equilibrium between free and bound hormone brings about transient changes in thyroid hormone secretion and degradation. The hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis participates in the reestablishment of the new steady state. For example, as illustrated in Figure 5-4, an abrupt increase in the concentration of TBG shifts the equilibrium between total and bound hormone, causing a decrease in the concentration of free hormone. The consequences are fourfold. First, there is a shift in the exchangeable hormone from tissues to blood. Second, a decreased hormone content in tissues diminishes its absolute degradation rate. Third, a decline in hormone concentration in tissues activates the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, causing an increase in TSH secretion. Fourth, the latter acts on the thyroid gland to step up its hormonal secretion and reestablish an appropriate thyroid hormone/TBG ratio. Thus, a normal thyroid hormone concentration in serum and tissues and hormonal production and disposal rates are reestablished. TSH concentration returns to normal, and a new steady state is maintained at the expense of an increased intravascular pool and a decreased fractional turnover rate and total distribution space of thyroid hormone. 232,233 The reverse sequence of events accompanies an acute decrease in TBG concentration or binding (Fig. 5-4). Alterations of Thyroid Hormone Metabolism Agents that may alter the extrathyroidal metabolism of thyroid hormone are listed in Table 5-3 . Several drugs with wide use in clinical practice inhibit the conversion of T4 to T3 in peripheral tissues. Glucocorticoids, 239,240 amiodarone, 241,242 and propranolol 243-245 are a few examples. As expected, their most profound effect on thyroid function is a decrease in the serum concentration of T3, 239,241,243 usually with a concomitant increase in the rT3 level. 239,241 An increase in the serum T4 concentration has also been observed on occasion. 241,245 The serum TSH concentration may also occasionally rise, 241 provided the drug does not have a direct inhibitory effect on the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. 246 In the absence of inherent abnormalities in thyroid hormone secretion or in its regulation, TSH levels should return to normal and hypothyroidism should not ensue from the chronic administration of compounds the only effect of which is to interfere partially with T4 monodeiodination. Other mechanisms by which some compounds affect the
