Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


the list of substances that can be shown to act on the hypothalamic-pituitary axis ( Table 5-4 ). Although many of these compounds are used frequently, only a few have significant effects on thyroid function via this central mechanism. Furthermore, patients receiving these drugs rarely have any abnormality of serum TSH although the response of TSH to the administration of TRH may be altered. An effect of these drugs may be seen in patients with untreated or partially treated primary hypothyroidism. In patients with an elevated basal level of serum TSH, addition of these drugs may produce a further increase or a significant diminution. Although the following paragraphs discuss the general mechanisms of action for these compounds, specific mechanisms are not always known. A major problem in interpretation is the variability of experimental designs. These variables include doses, routes of administration, duration and time of treatment, drug combinations, age and sex of subjects, hormonal status at the time of testing, and time of blood sampling. Furthermore, observed responses may be effected by the method of data analysis. For example, results of TSH responses to TRH have been expressed in terms of changes in the absolute value, increments or decrements from the basal level, and percent of the basal value at either the peak and nadir of the response or the integrated area over the duration of the response. The most potent suppressors of pituitary TSH secretion are thyroid hormone and its analogs. They act on the pituitary gland by blocking TSH secretion through the mechanisms discussed in Chapter 4. Some TSH-inhibiting agents listed in Table 5-4 , such as, fenclofenac and salicylates, may act solely by increasing the free thyroid hormone level through interference with its binding to serum proteins. Other agents appear to have a direct inhibitory effect on the pituitary and possibly on the hypothalamus. The most notable is dopamine and its agonists. They have been shown to suppress the basal TSH levels in euthyroid persons 284,285 and in patients with primary hypothyroidism. 267,284-286 More uniformly, they suppress the TSH response to the administration of TRH. 268,285,287,288 In contrast, most dopamine antagonists increase TSH secretion. 150-155 Increases in the basal TSH and in its response to TRH have been observed in euthyroid persons, 252,255 as well as in patients with primary hypothyroidism 250-256 who have been given these drugs. A notable exception to this rule, which casts some
