Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


hypophysitis) Cancer therapy Nivolumab a (autoimmune hypophysitis) Cancer therapy a References given in the text b In hyposomatotrophic dwarfs Iodine and some iodide-containing organic compounds cause a rapid increase in the basal and TRH-stimulated levels of serum TSH. This effect is undoubtedly due to a decrease in the serum thyroid hormone concentration either by inhibition of hormone synthesis and secretion by the thyroid gland 81,82 or by a selective decrease in the concentration of T3. 290 The latter effect is mediated through the inhibition of T3 generation from T4. A more selective, intrapituitary inhibition of T4 to T3 conversion appears to be responsible for the TSH-stimulating effect of the radiographic contrast agent iopanoic acid 58 and amiodarone. Iodine does not stimulate TSH secretion in patients in whom it has produced hyperthyroidism. 94 A decrease in the free thyroid hormone concentration in serum, albeit minimal in magnitude, may also be responsible for the increase in TSH levels observed during treatment with clomifene. 260 It has been postulated that some agents may act by modifying the effect of TSH on its target tissue. For example, theophylline may potentiate the action of TSH through its inhibitory effect on phosphodiesterase, which may lead to an increase in the intracellular concentration of cAMP. 291 In fact, the presence of the pituitary is required to demonstrate that methylxanthines augment the goitrogenic effect of a low-iodine diet in the rat. 292 One of the postulated effects of diethyl ether anesthesia in the rat is inhibition of the action of TSH on the thyroid gland, 293 although it has also been reported to induce a transient redistribution of T4 between serum and tissues. 294 Alterations of Thyroid Hormone Action A handful of drugs seem to act by blocking some of the peripheral tissue effects of thyroid hormone. Others appear to mimic one or several manifestations of the thyroid hormone effect on tissues. Guanethidine releases catecholamines from tissues. 295 It has a beneficial effect in thyrotoxicosis, including a decrease in BMR, pulse rate, and tremulousness. 296,297 This agent has little effect on the thyroid gland, but depresses manifestations of thyrotoxicosis that are mediated by sympathetic pathways. The sympatholytic agents phentolamine and dibenzyline have been reported both to depress and to stimulate thyroid function in animals. Their action is not clear, and it is of minimal clinical significance. 298-300 Among several α-adrenergic blocking agents tested, only phentolamine showed an inhibitory
