Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


to stimulate thyroid function in animals. Their action is not clear, and it is of minimal clinical significance. 298-300 Among several α-adrenergic blocking agents tested, only phentolamine showed an inhibitory effect on the TSH response to TRH. 271 Theoretically, thyroid hormone effects could be blocked by drugs which interfere with the tissue uptake of thyroid hormone or binding to its receptors. Inhibition of both cellular uptake and nuclear receptor binding has been demonstrated in vitro for amiodarone in hepatocytes and cultured pituitary cells. Inhibition of cellular thyroid hormone uptake has also been reported for calcium channel blockers and benzodiazapines. Furosemide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs reduce T3 binfding to cytosolic receptors. There is, however, no clear evidence that any of these drugs have a clinically significant effect on thyoid hormone action. Among the multiple effects the ß-adrenergic blocker, propranolol, has on thyroid hormone economy, it appears to reduce the peripheral tissue responses to thyroid hormone (see also Chapters 3 and 11). Dinitrophenol enhances oxygen consumption by a direct effect on tissues and thus mimics one of the actions of thyroid hormone. 301 Recent interest has been directed toward compounds which may share some but not all thyroid hormone actions by either selective tissue uptake or receptor binding. The general goal is to develop agents which promote weight loss or decrease lipids without adverse effects on the skeleton, heart (tachycardia) or pituitary (TSH suppression). 300a-300d Diiodothyropropanoic acid (DIPTA) in short term studies was found to decrease cholesterol and lead to weight loss. 300a However it was also found to increase bone turnover and reduce TSH, T3 and T4. 300a The drug eprotirome was shown to reduce total and LDL cholesterol, triglyerides and Lp(a) lipoprotein. 300b,300c Eprotirome was not found to have adverse effects on the heart or bone and did not changed levels of TSH or T3 although mild, reversible dops in T4 levels were noted. 300b,300c In a controlled trial, that was terminated prior to completion when adverse cartilage effects were noted in dogs, several patients did devlop transaminase elevations. 300c Specific Agents Estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs ). Hyperestrogenism, either endogenous (caused by pregnancy, hydatidiform moles, or estrogen-producing tumors) or exogenous (due to the administration of estrogens), is accompanied by an increase in TBG and a decrease in TTR concentrations in serum. 220-222 Estrogens are the most common cause of TBG elevation, and this effect can be produced
