Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


accompanied by an increase in TBG and a decrease in TTR concentrations in serum. 220-222 Estrogens are the most common cause of TBG elevation, and this effect can be produced even after their topical application. The magnitude of TBG increase is in part dose related and occurs in women as well as in men. While tamoxifen blocks the estrogen induced increase of TBG 224a , tamoxifen alone in post-menopausal women increases TBG and T4 and 3 levels. 301a . The selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) raloxifene, increases TBG, produces small increase in T4 and insignificant changes in free T4. 301b,301c In a single case report, raloxifene appeared to also alter thyroid hormone absorption. 301d Estrogen increases the complexity of oligosaccharide side chains and, as a consequence, the number of sialic acids in the TBG molecule which in turn prolongs its survival in serum. 302 The concentrations of other serum proteins, including several that bind hormones, such as cortisol-binding globulin and sex-hormone binding globulin, are also increased. 303 The consequences of increased TBG concentration in serum are higher serum levels of T4, T3 and rT3 and, to a lesser extent, other metabolites of T4 deiodination. The fractional turnover rate of T4 is depressed principally due to an increase in the intravascular T4 pool. On the other hand, the FT4 and FT3 concentrations and the absolute amount of hormone degraded each day remain normal. 232,233 Transient changes in these parameters during the early changes in TBG concentration can be anticipated as described above. Some of the effects of pregnancy on thyroid function are also mediated by an estrogen-induced increase in the serum TBG concentration. The effects on thyroidal and renal iodide clearance and BMR are mediated by different mechanisms (see Chapter 3). The effect of estrogen, if any, on the control of TSH secretion is controversial. Contradictory results suggesting a stimulatory 304 and an inhibitory 305,306 effect have been obtained by different investigators and both stimulation and inhibition has been shown in a single study depending on the dosage utilized. 306a In a study of the effects of Tamoxifen, TSH was elevated at 3 months but not at 6 months. 306b Although women show a greater TSH responsiveness to TRH than men, 306-308 administration of pharmacologic doses of estrogens does not appear to have a significantly enhancing effect. 309,310 During ovarian hyperstimulation for ovulation induction, an increase in TSH and fT4 has
