Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


306-308 administration of pharmacologic doses of estrogens does not appear to have a significantly enhancing effect. 309,310 During ovarian hyperstimulation for ovulation induction, an increase in TSH and fT4 has been observed and this has been attributed to the marked increase in estrogen. 310a The effects of estrogens in the rat are not identical to those observed in humans. Estrogens do not induce changes in the concentration of serum T4-binding proteins in the rat. 22 Thus, investigations carried out in this species are not always representative in interpreting the effects of estrogens observed in humans Androgens. Androgens decrease the concentration of TBG in serum and thereby reduce the level of T4 and T3. 223,311 The TTR concentration, however, is increased. 223 As with estrogens, the concentration of free hormone remains unaffected, and the degradation rate of T4 is normal at the expense of an accelerated turnover rate. 223 TSH levels are normal. 305 Anabolic steroids with weaker androgenic action have the same effect, although similar changes observed during danazol therapy have been attributed to its androgen-like properties. 224 Salicylates. Acetylsalycilic acid has been identified as the most commonly administered medication which may cause significant alterations in measured parameters of thyroid function. 224b,224c Salicylate and its noncalorigenic congeners (Fig. 5-3) compete for thyroid hormone-binding sites on serum TTR and TBG. 225-228 As a result, the serum concentrations of T4 and T3 decline and their free fractions increase. 228 The turnover rate of T4 is accelerated, but degradation rates remain normal. 225,226 Salicylate and its noncalorigenic congeners also suppress the thyroidal RAIU but do not retard iodine release from the thyroid gland. 312 The impaired respone to TRH 313 and the hypermetabolic effect 314 of salicylates have been attributed to the increase in the FT4 and FT3 fractions. If this were correct, hormonal release from the serum-binding proteins should produce only a temporary suppression of the thyroidal RAIU and transient hypermetabolism, but both effects are observed during chronic administration of salicylates. 225,226 In addition, this mechanism of action does not explain the lack of calorigenic effect of some salicylate congeners despite their ability to also displace thyroid hormone from its serum-binding proteins. In vitro studies have demonstrated an inhibitory effect of salicylate on the outer ring monodeiodination of both T4 and rT3, 315 but lack of typical changes in serum iodothyronine levels suggests that this action is less important in vivo. Acetylsalicylic
