Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


on the outer ring monodeiodination of both T4 and rT3, 315 but lack of typical changes in serum iodothyronine levels suggests that this action is less important in vivo. Acetylsalicylic acid mimics some actions of thyroid hormone, but does not reverse classic manifestations of hypothyroidism. While salicylate administration may lower serum cholesterol levels, 316 it does not provide a therapeutic effect in myxedema, or lower TSH levels. 317 Administration of 8 g aspirin daily raises the BMR to normal in myxedema, accelerates the circulation, and increases sweating, but it has no effect on the skin change, the electrocardiogram, or the mental state. 316 Because of some analogies between the effects of salicylates and nitrophenol, uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation has been suggested as one of its possible mechanisms of action. If this were the case, direct chemical action does not appear to be involved since analogs of salicylate that do not uncouple oxidative phosphorylation in vitro are active in vivo. 318 p- Aminosalicylic acid and p- aminobenzoic acid are closely related chemically to salicylate. They inhibit iodide binding in the thyroid gland and are goitrogenic. 319,320 These agents also displace thyroid hormone from its serum protein-binding sites. 321 Abnormalities of thyroid function tests have been also reported in patients treated with salsalate. 322 Heparin. Patients receiving heparin chronically may have increased FT4 and FT3. 230,231 Reciprocal changes in serum TSH have been reported. 231 While it had been suggested that heparin might interact with the T4-binding proteins to alter the steric configuration of the binding sites and reduce the affinity of the proteins for T4 and T3 210 , it is now thought that heparin acts via the activation of lipoprotein lipase to increase free fatty acid levels which may displace T4 from binding proteins. This effect is most likely to be significant when the levels of albumin are low and triglycerides are high such as during hyperalimentation with lipid solutions. Even low doses of heparin may be sufficient to cause artifactual, in vitro, increase in T4 especially when measured by equilibrium dialysis. 231a Although initially reported with crude heparin preparations, this heparin effect has also been noted with enoxaparin. 231b Glucocorticoids. Physiologic amounts, as well as pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids influence thyroid function. Their effects are variable and multiple, depending on the dose and on the endocrine status of the individual. The type of glucocorticoid and the route of administration
