Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


free T4. 329c Normal adrenocortical secretion appears to have a suppressive influence on pituitary TSH secretion because patients with primary adrenal insufficiency have a significant elevation of TSH. 330 In cultures from rat pituitary tumors, hydrocortisone increased the number of TRH receptors 331 Dexamethasone has also been shown to increase the transcription, translation and processing of TRH precursors. 331a,b The mechanism of glucocorticoid action on the hypothalamic-pituitary axis is covered in Chapter 4. No single change in thyroid function can be ascribed to a specific mode of action of glucocorticoids. For example, a diminished thyroidal RAIU may be due to the combined effects of TSH suppression and increased renal clearance of iodide. Similarly, a low serum TT4 level is the result of suppressed thyroidal secretion due to diminished TSH stimulation as well as the decreased serum level of TBG. One of the common problems in clinical practice is to separate the effect of glucocorticoid action on pituitary function from that of other agents and those caused by acute and chronic illness. This situation arises often since steroids are commonly used in a variety of autoimmune and allergic disorders as well as in the treatment of septic shock. The diagnosis of coexisting true hypothyroidism is difficult, if not impossible. Due to the suppressive effects of glucocorticoids on the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, the low levels of serum T4 and T3 may not be accompanied by an increase in the serum TSH concentration, which would otherwise be diagnostic of primary hypothyroidism. In such circumstances, a depressed rather than an elevated serum rT3 level may be helpful in the detection of coexistent primary thyroid failure. Pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids induce a prompt decline in serum T4 and T3 concentrations in thyrotoxic patients with Graves' disease. 239 Amelioration of the symptoms and signs in such patients may also be accompanied by a decrease in the elevated thyroidal RAIU and a diminution of the TSH receptor antibody titer. 325,332 This effect of glucocorticoids may be due in part to its immunosuppressive action since it has been shown that administration of dexamethasone to hypothyroid patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis causes an increase in the serum concentration of both T4 and T3. 333 Iodinated contrast It is estimated that in the US in the past year more than 80 million CT scans were performed and more than half of those utilized iodinated contrast. Whether low or high ionic strength, low
