Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


the US in the past year more than 80 million CT scans were performed and more than half of those utilized iodinated contrast. Whether low or high ionic strength, low or high osmolality, all of these agents contain large amount of iodine ranging from 320 – 370 mg/ml. In a prospective study, 2.6% of adults receiving contrast developed hyperthyroidism although many of theses cases were transient. 333a In a study of hospitalized elderly patients with hyperthyroidism, 23% of them had a contrast CT performed in the preceeding months. 333b When Alexander et al examined a data base of 4,500,000 patients, they found that the likelihood of developing hyperthyroidism within two years of being euthyroid was doubled by having a recent contrast CT. 333c In a small study, pretreatment with thionamides reduced the incidence and severity of hyperthyroidism but did not always prevent it. 333d Since many episodes of hyperthyroidism after iodinated contrast are transient, mild and asymptomatic, this approach may only be appropriate for patients who had more severe episodes. Other options include avoidance of iodinated contrast and definitive treatment of any underlying thyroid disorder after the patient has recovered. In a study of newly diagnosed hypothyroidism in children, the risk was increased nearly three fold by recent administration of iodinated contrast, 333e while in adults, Kornelius et al found the risk was doubled. 333f Ipodate and Iopanoic acid The principal effect of these iodine-containing radiologic contrast media is inhibition of T4 to T3 conversion by inhibiting both Type I and Type II 5’-deiodinase. In fact, they may be the most potent of all agents known to interfere with this step of iodothyronine metabolism. A triiodo-and a monoamino-benzene ring with a proprionic acid chain appear to be required because iodinated contrast agents without this chemical structure have little or no effect. 334 Several of these agents, namely, ipodate (Oragrafin) and iopanoic acid (Telepaque), are used for oral cholecystography. A decrease in the rate of deiodination of the outer ring of thyronines causes a profound decrease in the serum T3 concentration and an increase in the rT3 and T4 levels. 334,335 The serum T4 concentration may reach values well within the thyrotoxic range. 334 These changes are accompanied by an increase in serum TSH secretion. 290 The latter is particularly notable, if not characteristic of these agents, probably because of their potent inhibitory effect on T3 generation in pituitary tissue. 58
