Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


in serum TSH secretion. 290 The latter is particularly notable, if not characteristic of these agents, probably because of their potent inhibitory effect on T3 generation in pituitary tissue. 58 These agents have been used to study the regulation of thyroid hormone action via the process of iodothyronine deiodination. 58,336 Changes persist for at least two to four weeks after their administration. 334 Ipodate and iopanoic acid also decrease the hepatic uptake of T4 337 and inhibit T3 binding to its nuclear receptors. 338 These effects reduce both symptoms and thyroid hormone levels even when thyrotoxicosis occurs in settings where ongoing synthesis would be minimal such as thyrotoxicosis secondary to thyroid hormone ingestion 338a , or sub-clinical hypothyroidism. 338b The antithyroidal effect of the iodine present in these agents is believed to be responsible for the falling T4 level and some of the amelioration of the symptoms and signs of thyrotoxicosis when they are administered to patients with Graves' disease 338,338c, 338d , Amiodarone. Most changes in thyroid function observed during the administration of this drug are similar to those seen with iodine-containing contrast agents. They include a marked decrease in serum T3, an increase in rT3, and a more modest elevation in the T4 concentration. 241,339 Basal and TRH-stimulated TSH levels are increased. The principal mechanism of action is believed to be inhibition of both Type I and Type II 5’-deiodinase resulting in a marked reduction of T3 generation from T4. Amiodarone may reduce the entry of thyroid hormone into tissues 339a , may reduce the binding of thyroid hormones to the receptor 339b and may antagonize the effects of thyroid hormone at the cellular level. 339c,339d The drug is used as an antianginal and antiarrhythmic agent and the bradycardia that almost invariably occurs when the drug is used in high doses, may suggest the presence of hypothyroidism. 340 Amiodarone contains 37% iodine by weight. The major effects on thyroid function appear to be the result of its structural resemblance to thyroid hormone rather than its iodine content. In contrast to the typical alterations of thyroid hormone function, the more uncommon occurrence of frank hypothyroidism or thyrotoxicosis are products of the excess iodine released from the drug. The overall incidence of amiodarone induced thyroid disease is higher in areas of mild iodine deficiency 340 as is the relative incidence of the thyrotoxic as compared to the hypothyroid form. 340
