Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


incidence of amiodarone induced thyroid disease is higher in areas of mild iodine deficiency 340 as is the relative incidence of the thyrotoxic as compared to the hypothyroid form. 340 The iodine dependence of both of these diseases is confirmed by the improvement of both with the use of perchlorate to discharge iodine from the thyroid gland. 340a, 340b Amoidarone induced thyrotoxicosis has been identified as having two main types; type 1 usually coccuring with underlying thyroid abnormalities and type 2 in normal glands with small goiters. 340a, 340b Type 1 is more common in area of iodine deficiency. Early onset of thyrotoxicosisis is more typical for Type 1 and later onset with Type 2, but either form may present after amiodarone was discontinued. 340c, 340d Type 1 is associated with increased blood flow while hypervasculaity is absent in Type 2. Radioacitve iodine uptake may be low-normal or normal in Type 1 (especially in areas with iodine deficiency) and is low in Type 2. Type 1 is treated with thionamides but patients may be realtively resistant while patients with Type 2 respond to glucocorticoids. Some patient will present with a mixed form. Surgery may be used in cases refractory to medical therapy. 340e Measurement of serum TSH, remains the most useful test in the differential diagnosis of hypothyroidism or thyrotoxicosis in amiodarone treated patients but the mild TSH elevation seen in euthyroid patients may make the diagnosis of mild to moderate hypothyroidism more difficult. If hypothyroidism is suspected, it is appropriate to obtain a measurement of the serum rT3 concentration. The absence of an elevated serum rT3 level in a patient receiving amiodarone suggests the patient is hypothyroid. Diphenylhydantoin (Dilantin). Diphenylhydantoin (DPH) (Fig. 5-3) competes with thyroid hormone binding to TBG. 228,229 This effect of DPH and diazepam, a related compound, has been exploited to study the conformational requirements for the interaction of thyroid hormone with its serum carrier protein 229,341 It appears that the angle formed between the two phenyls and the hydantoin group of DPH is nearly identical to that formed between the two phenyls linked by an ether bond in T4. 229 Although the affinity of DPH for TBG is far below that of T4, when used in therapeutic doses the serum concentration achieved is high enough to cause a significant occupancy of the hormone-binding sites on TBG. This effect of DPH is only partly responsible for
