Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


blocker, is commonly used as an adjunct in the treatment of thyrotoxicosis Propranolol is usually used in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, angina and hypertension. Information regarding its effects on thyroid hormone action, and application in the symptomatic treatment of thyrotoxicosis is found in Chapters 3 and 11, respectively. Propranolol does not affect the secretion or overall turnover rate of T4, nor TSH release or its regulatory mechanisms. 349,350 A small to moderate lowering effect on serum T3 has been reported in euthyroid subjects as well as in patients with hyperthyroidism or with myxedema under L-T4 replacement therapy. 243,245,351,352 Reciprocal increases in serum rT3 and 3',5'-T2 levels have also been reported. 352 Such data, combined with the finding by some investigators of minimal increases in serum T4 245 levels, suggest a mild blocking effect of this drug on the 5'-deiodination of iodothyronines. This effect does not appear to be related to the ß-adrenergic-blocking action of propranolol, since other ß-blocking agents do not share the deiodinase-blocking property and yet are effective in treating symptomatic thyrotoxicosis. 353,354 The beneficial effects include the reduction of tachycardia, anxiety, and tremor 355-357 although the metabolic effects of thyrotoxicosis remain unaffected. Reserpine. Reserpine formerly had wide use as an antihypertensive agent but has been replaced by more effective agents. Reserpine alters the manifestations of thyrotoxicosis by reducing anxiety, tachycardia, and tremulousness. 358 This effect may arise from depression of autonomic centers or possibly from depletion of catecholamines in the peripheral tissues. 359 Reserpine may depress the formation of iodotyrosines in thyroid tissue in vitro, but this action does not seem to be important clinically. Reserpine does not alter the results of thyroid function tests other than the BMR. 358 Nitrophenols. 2,4-Dinitrophenol (Fig. 5-3) elevates the BMR, lowers the serum concentration of T4, accelerates the peripheral metabolism of T4, and depresses the thyroidal RAIU and secretion. 275,360,361 The action is probably complex. The drug stimulates the metabolism by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria. 362 T4 in vitro also uncouples oxidative phosphorylation. Part of the effect of dinitrophenol may be to mimic the action of thyroid hormone on hypothalamic or pituitary receptor control centers; this effect would account for the diminished thyroid activity. Dinitrophenol also displaces thyroid hormone from T4-binding serum proteins. 227 This action could lower the total hormone concentration in serum but should have no persistent effect on thyroid function. Dinitrophenol increases biliary and fecal excretion
