Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


from T4-binding serum proteins. 227 This action could lower the total hormone concentration in serum but should have no persistent effect on thyroid function. Dinitrophenol increases biliary and fecal excretion of T4, and this action largely accounts for the rapid removal of hormone from the circulation. 363 Deiodination of T4 is also increased. 364 Both of these effects may be related to displacement of hormone from TTR or to changes in metabolism of hormone in the liver. 2,4-Dinitrophenol does not share some of the most important properties of T4. It cannot initiate metamorphosis of tadpoles 365 or provide a substitute for hormonal therapy in myxedema. Dopaminergic Agents. It is generally accepted that endogenous brain dopamine plays a physiologic role in regulating TSH secretion via an effect on the hypothalamic-hypophyseal axis. 252,366,367 Dopamine exerts a suppressive effect on TSH secretion and can be regarded as antagonistic to the stimulatory action of TRH at the pituitary level. 284,287,367 Much of the information regarding the role of dopamine on the control of TSH secretion in humans has been derived from observations made during the administration of agents with dopamine-agonistic and -antagonistic activity (see Table 5-4 and Chapter 4). Dopamine infusion is commonly used in the care of acutely ill hypotensive patients. It lowers the basal serum TSH level in both euthyroid and hypothyroid patients and blunts its response to the administration of TRH. 252,284,287,368,368a L-dopa, the precursor of dopamine, used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and as a test agent in the diagnosis of pituitary diseases, also suppresses the basal and the TRH-stimulated serum TSH level in euthyroid subjects as well as in patients with primary hypothyroidism 285,288,368b (Fig. 5-5). Metoclopropamide, a dopamine antagonist used as a diagnostic agent and in the treatment of motility disorders, increased TSH secretion. 368c A similar effect has been observed during the administration of 2-brom-ergocryptine (bromocryptine), a dopamine agonist used in the treatment of some pituitary tumors and to suppress lactation during the puerperal period. Although the agent has been shown definitely to diminish the high serum TSH levels in patients with primary hypothyroidism, 286 a significant inhibitory effect on TRH-induced TSH secretion has not been clearly demonstrated, 369,370 The exact mechanism whereby dopaminergic drugs inhibit pituitary TSH secretion remains unknown, although a direct interaction with pituitary receptors has been suggested. 371 While some authors have cautioned that prolonged infusion of dopamine may induce secondary hypothyroidism
