Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


pituitary TSH secretion remains unknown, although a direct interaction with pituitary receptors has been suggested. 371 While some authors have cautioned that prolonged infusion of dopamine may induce secondary hypothyroidism and worsen the prognosis of severely ill patients, 372 there is no evidence that chronic treatment with dopaminergic drugs induces hypothyroidism in less critically ill patients. 288 These drugs have been used with variable success in the treatment of some rare pituitary-induced thyrotoxicoses. 373,374 When measurements of the basal or stimulated serum TSH levels are used in the differential diagnosis of primary and secondary hypothyroidism, the concomitant use of drugs with dopamine-agonistic or -antagonistic activity should be taken into account in the interpretation of results. Alterations of Immunity A number of drugs including interferon and lithium affected thyroid function either in part or completely by inducing thyroid immunity. In the past few years a number of agents have been developed to treat cancer and multiple sclerosis by altering immune regulation. Unintended side effects or these drugs has been the development of hyperthyroidism from Graves’ disease or thyroiditis and hypothyroidism as a consequence of autoimmune hypophyisitis or chronic thyroiditis. Interferon and Interleukin These cytokines have been associated with the development of both hypothyroidism and thyrotoxicosis. 375-379 The overall rate of thyroid dysfunction induced by these agents is about 6%. 379a They are used in the treatment of infectious diseases such as hepatitis, as well as malignancies including melanoma and renal cell carcinoma . Acute administration has been used as a model of illness as the effects are similar; interferon-a leads to a decrease in T3 an increase in rT3 and a fall In TSH. 380 In a group of euthyroid HIV infected patients, however, short term administration of interleukin-2 was observed to lead to an increase in TSH, T3, T4 and free T4. 381 Cytokine induced thyroid disease appears to be immune mediated. The incidence is much greater in females and in patients with positive anti-peroxidase and anti-TPO antibodies prior to the initiation of therapy. 375-377 During therapy, patients who were antibody positive may have a rise in titer, while antibody positivity may develop in previously negative patients. 375 In patients treated for hepatitis with interferon, the incidence of thyroid disease is much higher in those with Hepatitis C than those with Hepatitis B. 375 The thyrotoxicosis often occurs as a manifestation of a destructive thyroiditis. 376-377 In many patients, the
