Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


is much higher in those with Hepatitis C than those with Hepatitis B. 375 The thyrotoxicosis often occurs as a manifestation of a destructive thyroiditis. 376-377 In many patients, the thyroid disease resolves within several months after stopping the cytokine therapy. 375,377 Anti CD 52 Antibody Alemtuzumab This monoclonal antibody reacts against CD52, a glycoprotein that is expressed on B cells and CD4+ T cells. It is approved by the FDA for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. It is initially dosed daily for five days and then a second course is given for three days, one year later. Thyroid disease has been noted to occur in a third of treated patients with some cases seen within weeks of initiating treatment and most cases seen within the first three years but cases have been seen up to seven years after starting treatment. 376a,376b,377a The most frequently observed disorder has been Graves’ disease which affects almost a quarter of all treated patients. 376a,376b,377a Most affect patients develop antibodies. Most cases are overt and some patients have experienced significant ophthalmopathy. While as many as 35% of these patients have been reported to have spontaneous resolution, most have been treated medically. Hypothyroidism develops in 5-7% of patients. Most of these patients develop anti-thyroid antibodies and the deficits are usually permanent. Less than 5 % of patients will develop typical painless thyroiditis with transient hyperthyroidism sometimes followed by hypothyroidism. 376a,376b,377a Check Point Inhibitors These agents target systems that normally act to limit activation of the immune system but are utilized by cancer cells to block immune mediated destruction. Use of these agents allows the activated immune cells to kill tumor cells. . 377b- 377d The same mechanism of action, however, leads to activation of immune mediated damage to other cells including skin, liver and thyroid cells. . 377b- 377d Antibody against CTLA-4 ipilimumab Co-stimulation via HLA and B7 expressed on antigen presenting cells (and tumor cells) interacting respectively with T cell receptors and CD 28 expressed on T-cells leads to T-cell activation. Activated T-cells then express CTLA-4 that competes with CD 28 for B7 binding and thus reduces T cell activation. The monoclonal antibody, ipilmumab, specifically binds to CTLA-4 markedly enhancing T cell activation. 377b- 377d This promotes immune-mediated destruction of tumor cells. This agent was approved by the FDA for the treatment of melanoma in 2011. Usual dosing is every three weeks for four
