Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


377d This promotes immune-mediated destruction of tumor cells. This agent was approved by the FDA for the treatment of melanoma in 2011. Usual dosing is every three weeks for four doses. The drug also remains under investigation for treating other tumors. The most common associated autoimmune disorder affecting the thyroid has been the development of hypophyisitis. 377b- 377f Prior to the introduction of this agent, autoimmune hypophyisitis was typically seen in women in late pregnancy or post-partum, while hypophysitis secondary to ipilimumab has been seen almost solely in men. Onset has been within weeks of initiating therapy until almost two years later. 377b- 377f Most patients present with systemic symptoms while some present with headaches or visual symptoms. MRI abnormalities are common and include pituitary enlargement and stalk thickening. Similar to post-partum hypophyisitis, the pituitary-adrenal axis is most commonly affected, but most deficits are permanent. 377b- 377f Hypothyroidism occurs in 4-6% of treated patients from 2 months to 3 years after starting treatment. Fatigue is the most common presenting symptom. The hypothyroidism is usually permanent. Some 1-3 % of treated patients will develop typical painless, thyroiditis with transient hyperthyroidism. Onset is usually two to four months after starting treatment. 377b- 377f Hyperthyroidism is sometimes followed by hypothyroidism. The package insert advises checking thyroid function prior to starting therapy, before each dose and as “clinically indicated’” but does not recommend checking cortisol or ACTH. Antibodies Against Programmed Death Receptor Ligand (PDL-1) Pembrolizumab and Nivolumab Recognition of tumor cells via MHC/T cell receptor interaction leads to T cell activation and interferon production which stimulates tumor cell production of the PD-1 ligand. This then binds with the PD-1 receptor on the T cell and inhibits activation. Dendritic cells also express this ligand to inhibit T-cell activation. Pembrolizumab and Nivolumab are monoclonal antibodies directed against the PD1 ligand that act to increase T-cell activity and thus promote immune-mediated destruction of tumor cells. 377d, 377g These drugs were approved by the FDA in 2014 for the treatment of melanoma. Pembrolizumab is administered intravenously every 3 weeks. Nivolumab is administered intravenously every 2 weeks. These drugs also remains under investigation for treating other tumors. Both agents may lead to the development of immune mediated hypothyroidism, thyroiditis and hypophysitis with hypothyroidism being the most common problem. 377g-377i Hypothyroidism may occur within weeks of starting therapy or may not occur until after a year. It is usually permanent.
