Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


and hypophysitis with hypothyroidism being the most common problem. 377g-377i Hypothyroidism may occur within weeks of starting therapy or may not occur until after a year. It is usually permanent. 377g-377i In contrast, reported cases of hyperthyroidism from thyroiditis have occurred from 2 weeks to 5 months after initiating therapy and always resolves. 377g-377i For pembrolizumab the occurrence of these complications has been reported as 8% for hypothyroidism, 2-3% for thyroiditis and 0.5% for hypophyisitis. For nivolumab the rate of occurrence of these complications have been reported as 4-8% for hypothyroidism and 1-3% for thyroiditis. For both drugs, it is recommended to check thyroid function tests prior to starting therapy and periodically afterwards. Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Sunitinib maleate an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor used in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors has also been associated with the development of hypothyroidism. 381a In two studies, an elevated TSH has been seen in over 50% of patients treated with sunitinib. 382.383 In a prospective study, this was persistent in 36% and transient in 17%. 382 The mechanism remains unknown. 382a Antiperoxidase activity was demonstrated in vitro 382 , but other mechanisms include induction of destructive thyroiditis, 383 reduction of vascularity ot the gland, 383b and enhanced apoptosis. 383c The thyroid effects are seen with other TK inhibitors as well although the frequency and severity of the effect may vary. Hypothyroidism has also been seen with Sorafenib, but the rate is about 1/3 of that seen with sunitinib. 383d,383e In a few patients, transient thryotoxicosis has preceeded the hypothyroidism consistent with a destructive thyroiditis. 383d There is also evidence for enhanced thyroid hormone metabolism attributed to increased Type 3 deiodination. 383f This would also explain the need for increased thyroid hormone doses in athyreotic thyroid cancer patients. Imatinib mesylate is a selective tryrosine kinase inhibitor used in the treatment of chronic mylogenous leukemia (CML) and other malignancies. Thyroidectomized patients being treated with imatinib were noted to have a rise in TSH and a fall in serum T4 levels which responded to an increase in the T4 dose, suggesting enhanced metabolism of thyroid hormone 384 but changes have also been seen in euthyroid patients. 384a In most, cases, these changes were transient (74%) but have persisted in others. 384a Even higher rates of thyroid dysfunction have been seen with the newer agents nilotinib (55%) and dasatinib (75%). 384a As with
