Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


were transient (74%) but have persisted in others. 384a Even higher rates of thyroid dysfunction have been seen with the newer agents nilotinib (55%) and dasatinib (75%). 384a As with the other TK inhibitors some patients have had thyrotoxicosis and some have developed antithyroid antibodies. 384a Retinoids Bexarotene is a retinoid which is specific for the retinoid X- receptor and is used for the treatment of lymphomas and other malignancies. Therapy has been reported to produce central hypothyroidism 376a,376b,385 , and a single dose, leads to a decrease in T3, T4 and TSH. 386 In addition to suppression of TSH synthesis and secretion, bexarotene also increases the peripheral metabolism of thyroid hormone by a nondeiodinase mediated pathway. 387 TSH Receptor Agonists and Antagonists A number of small molecules that interact with the TSH receptor were identified and characterized to select compounds which could behave as TSH receptor agonists or antagonists. 387 These were then further modified to increase their activity. Of note, these molecules do not bind to the TSH ligand binding region but rather to the serpentine trans-membrane region of the receptor. These compounds have multiple potential uses including use as imaging agents for thyroid cancer and Graves’ ophthalmopathy and as therapeutic agents for patients with Graves’ or thyroid cancer. A TSH receptor agonist has been developed that when added to primary cultures of human thyrocytes increased messenger RNA expression for thyroglobulin, the sodium-iodide symporter, thyroid peroxidase (TPO), and deiodinase 2 similar to TSH. 388 When administered orally to mice, this compound increased radioactive iodine uptake in the thyroid and serum T4. 388 As an oral agent, this compound could potentially be used for imaging and treatment of thyroid cancer rather than parenteral rTSH or thyroid hormone withdrawal. A TSH receptor antagonist has also been developed that has activity both in cells overexpressing the human TSH receptor and in primary cultures of human thyrocytes. 389 The compound reduces both basal and TSH stimulated cAMP production. Recently it was demonstrated in cultured human thyrocytes to reduce basal TPO mRNA expression and to antagonize the effect of sera from Graves’ patients to induce TPO mRNA expression. 389 As an oral agent, this compound could potentially be used for imaging, to treat Graves’ patients or to suppress thyroid cancer without requiring use of supraphysiologic T4 doses. Thyronamines Thyronamines are small molecules identical to thyroxine, triiodothyronine and all of the deiodinated thyroid hormone
