Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


Graves’ patients or to suppress thyroid cancer without requiring use of supraphysiologic T4 doses. Thyronamines Thyronamines are small molecules identical to thyroxine, triiodothyronine and all of the deiodinated thyroid hormone metabolites except that they lack a carboxyl moiety at the amino terminus (ethylamine rather than alanine group). 390 Each compound is identified similar to the corresponding thyroid hormone or metabolite as T X (AM) where X is the number of iodine molecules and ranges from zero, T 0 (AM), to four, T 4 (AM). Two of these compounds, [3-T 1 (AM) and T 0 (AM)], have been identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry as naturally present in small amounts in tissues and sera from hamsters, mice and rats. 390 They have been detected in both cardiac and brain tissue. 390 No published report has confirmed the presence of any of these compounds in humans. It has been speculated that some of these compounds could be directly produced by the decarboxylation of T4 or T3, but this has never been demonstrated. These compounds can be deiodinated, in vitro, by Deiodinases 1, 2 and 3. 390 These compounds can bind to a number of receptors and 3-T 1 (AM) binds strongly to APO B 100 in serum. Despite the structural similarities to thyroid hormones, the thyronamines do not bind to nuclear thyroid hormone receptors and they do not alter T3 binding to these receptors. 390 Several thyronamines bind to the beta-adrenergic receptor, but any effects on cAMP signaling remain unclear. 390 There is conflicting evidence regarding the ability of these compounds to signal via the trace amine associated receptor 1 (TAAR-1) or via the Alpha 2A adrenergic receptor. 390 There is also conflicting evidence about the ability of these compounds to alter intracellular signaling via the cAMP or tyrosine phosphorylation or dephosphorylation pathways. 390 There are no known physiologic actions of any of these compounds. In animals, several of these compounds have been found to have pharmacologic activity both in vitro and after intraperitoneal or intraventicular injection. These observations include a reduction in cardiac contractility and rate, a reduction in the metabolic rate, a reduction in fat mass and the development of hypothermia, ketonuria and hyperglycemia. 390 Many of these activities are noted within minutes after injection and resolve after a few hours but the development of ketonuria and the reduction of fat mass occur later and persist longer. 390 Potential therapeutic
