Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


noted within minutes after injection and resolve after a few hours but the development of ketonuria and the reduction of fat mass occur later and persist longer. 390 Potential therapeutic uses of these compounds are being evaluated in animal models. The ability of these compounds to induce hypothermia, has been shown to decrease infarct size when they were administered 2 days before or 1 hour after the induction of a stroke in an animal model. 390 Metformin Metformin is a biguanide used in the treatment of diabetes mellitus as well as insulin resistance and polycystic ovary syndrome. In four patients with hypothyroidism on stable thyroxine therapy, TSH levels became markedly reduced with either no change in serum thyroid hormone levels or despite a reduction in the T4 dose and serum thyroid hormone levels suggesting a direct suppression of TSH release. 388 Subsequent studies have reported mixed effects, but a meta-analysis conluded that TSH alterations are seen in both overt and sub-clinical hypothryoidism but not in euthyroid patients suggesting an effect to suppress TSH that is not seen when the thyroid gland is able to respond to any change in TSH. 388b Biotin Biotin is a B vitamin that acts as a cofactor for carboxylase enzymes involved in gluconeogenesis and fatty acid synthesis. It is produced by gut bacrteria and normal daily intake is 35-350 mcg daily. It is used in the treatment of biotinidase deficiency and proprionic acidemia and as a supplement for TPN. It is frequently used by individuals in doses of 5,000 to 10,000 mcg daily as a supplement to improve hair and nail growth and to treat hair and nail disorders Many laboratory platforms for the measurement of fT4, fT3 TSH and thyroglobulin depend on the strong binding of biotin and strep avidin. If patients ingest biotin in doses of 5,000 to 10,000 mcg prior to blood being drawn for these analytes, measurements of fT4 and fT3 will be falsely high and thyroglobulin and TSH will be falsely low as biotin interferes in the assays. . 397,398 The combination of a high fT4 and low TSH mimics hyperthyroidism. 397-400 These effects correspond to the blood level of biotin with a peak effect seen several hours after ingestion and potentially even lasting until the next day. 398,400 Variable times between ingestion and blood measurements can results in confusing variations in these measurement not corresponding to patents clinical status.
