Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


and potentially even lasting until the next day. 398,400 Variable times between ingestion and blood measurements can results in confusing variations in these measurement not corresponding to patents clinical status. Confirmation of this effect can be made by measuring several hours after ingestion and after abstaining for 48 hours or by re-measuring in an assay not utilizing biotin. 397-400 This effect is not limited to thyroid hormone measurements but have also been reported for PTH, DHEA-sulfate, estradiol and ferritin. 398 SUMMARY This chapter considers the effects of various environmental factors, drugs and chemicals, and nonthyroidal diseases on thyroid function. In animals, cold exposure causes a prompt increase in TSH secretion, which gives rise to thyroid hormone release and leads to thyroid gland hyperplasia. Part of this effect is due to an apparent increase in the need for thyroid hormone by peripheral tissues and to an excessive rate of hormone degradation and excretion. In humans, hypothermia causes a dramatic TSH secretion in the newborn, but this response is lost after the first few years of life. Exposure to heat has an opposite effect, although of lesser magnitude. A small seasonal variation in serum thyroid hormone levels that follow this general pattern has been reported. Simulated altitude and anoxia depress thyroid hormone formation in rats, but in humans serum T4 and T3 concentrations, T4 degradation, and oxygen consumption are at least temporarily augmented by high altitude. Starvation has a profound effect on thyroid function, causing a decrease in serum T3 concentration and a reciprocal increase in rT3 level. These changes are due to a selective inhibition of the 5'-monodeiodination of iodothyronines by peripheral tissues. Reduction in carbohydrate intake rather than total calorie deprivation appears to be the determinant factor. These alterations in thyroid function are believed to reduce the catabolic activity of the organism and thus to conserve energy in the face of decreased calorie intake. Chronic malnutrition is accompanied by similar changes. Overfeeding has opposite although transient effects. Physical and emotional stresses can have variable and opposite effects. Increased thyroid hormone secretion and serum levels have been observed in stressed animals and in acute psychiatric patients on admission. The physical stress of surgery causes a prompt decrease in the serum T3 concentration, probably as a consequence of decreased T3 neogenesis. This effect of surgery cannot be fully explained on the basis of increased adrenocortical activity or calorie deprivation. Many minerals alter
