Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


concentration, probably as a consequence of decreased T3 neogenesis. This effect of surgery cannot be fully explained on the basis of increased adrenocortical activity or calorie deprivation. Many minerals alter the synthesis of thyroid hormone, mainly through their interference with iodide concentration and binding by the thyroid gland. The action of iodine is only briefly covered here since it is discussed in Chapters 2 and 13. Calcium, nitrate, bromine, rubidium, and fluorine are allegedly goitrogenic. Lithium carbonate, used in the usual doses for the treatment of affective disorders, can produce goiter in susceptible persons. It inhibits iodide binding and hormonal release from the thyroid gland, probably through a synergistic action with iodide. Numerous dietary goitrogens, including cyanogenic glucosides, thioglucosides, thiocyanate, and goitrin, are present in a wide variety of foods, and are believed to contribute to the occurrence of endemic goiter in some areas of the world. Monovalent anions such as thiocyanate and perchlorate inhibit iodide transport into the thyroid and cause goiter. Thionamide drugs such as PTU and the related compound, methimazole, inhibit thyroid peroxidase and thus prevent thyroid hormone synthesis. In addition, PTU but not methimazole inhibits the conversion of T4 to T3 in peripheral tissues. Under appropriate circumstances, sulfonamides, sulfonylureas, salicylamides, resorsinol, amphenone, aminoglutethamide, antipyrine, aminotriazole, amphenidone, 2,3-dimercaptopropanolol, and phenylbutazone have antithyroid action. A growing list of drugs and diagnostic agents have been found to affect thyroid economy by modulating the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis, as well as by interfering with thyroid hormone transport, metabolism, excretion, and action. Some drugs, such as salicylates, diphenylhydantoin, and glucocorticoids, act at several levels. Several compounds, most notably estrogens, diphenylhydantoin, diazepam, heparin, halophenate, fenclofenac, and some biologically inactive thyroid hormone analogs compete with binding of thyroid hormone to its carrier proteins in serum. The only consequence of drugs affecting hormone transport is a decrease or increase in the concentration of total but not free hormone in serum. Glucocorticoids, drugs such as propranolol, and amiodarone and some iodinated contrast media inhibit the extrathyroidal generation of T3. The result is a decrease in serum T3 and an increase in rT3 concentrations, with a slight increase or no change in T4 values. Thyroid hormone disposal is accelerated by diphenylhydantoin and phenobarbital, which increase several of the pathways of hormone degradation, and by hypolipemic resins, which increase the fecal loss of hormone. Homeostasis is usually maintained by a compensatory increase in thyroid hormone secretion.
