Effects of the Environment, Chemicals and Drugs on Thyroid Function
KEYWORDS: thyroid, hormone, effect, serum, tsh, thyroid hormone, clin, endocrinol, effects, patients, clin endocrinol, metab, concentration, increase, function


several of the pathways of hormone degradation, and by hypolipemic resins, which increase the fecal loss of hormone. Homeostasis is usually maintained by a compensatory increase in thyroid hormone secretion. Some drugs act through inhibition or stimulation of TSH secretion. Most notable of the former effect are dopamine agonists such as L-dopa and bromocryptine, as well as some -adrenergic blockers, glucocorticoids, acetylsalicylic acid, and opiates. A variety of dopamine antagonists as well as cimetidine, clomifene, and spirolactone appear to increase TSH secretion. These compounds seem to interfere with the normal dopaminergic suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Observed changes in TSH secretion are not associated with significant metabolic alterations. Some of the drugs have an apparent effect on TSH secretion through changes induced at the levels of the free and active forms of the thyroid hormone. A handful of drugs appear to block or antagonize the action of thyroid hormone on tissues. These drugs include guanethidine, propranolol, and dinitrophenol. Some drugs may induce autoimmune thyroid disease. Notably among these are lithium, interferon, interleukin, alemtuzumab. prembrolizumab and nivolumab. The clinician should be thoroughly familiar with the effects of drugs, nonthyroidal illnesses, and other extraneous factors on thyroid function. These factors should all be taken into account in the differential diagnosis of primary thyroid disease. REFERENCES Bernstein G, Oppenheimer JH: Factors influencing the concentration of free and total thyroxine in patients with nonthyroidal disease. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 26:195, 1966. 1a. Silva JE, Larsen PR: Potential of brown adipose tissue type II thyroxine 5’-deiodinase as a local and systemic source of triiodothyronine in rats. J Clin Invest 76:2296-,1985. 1b. Hackney AC, Feith S, Pozos R, Seale J: Effects of high altitude and cold exposure on resting thyroid hormone concentrations. Aviat Space Environ Med 66:325-9,1995. 1c. Hackney AC, Hogdon JA, Hesslink R Jr, Trygg K: Thyroid hormone responses to military winter exercise in the Arctic region. Arctic Med Res 54:82-90,1995. 2. Wilber JF, Baum D: Elevation of plasma TSH during surgical hypothermia. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 31:372-375, 1970. 3. Fisher DA, Odell WD: Acute release of thyrotropin in the newborn. J Clin Invest 48:1670, 1969. 4. Fisher DA, Oddie TH: Neonatal thyroidal hyperactivity. Response to cooling. Am J Dis Child 107:574, 1964. 5. Hershman JM, Read DG, Bailey AL, Norman VD, Gibson TB: Effect of cold exposure on serum thyrotropin. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 30:430, 1970. 6. Nagata H, Izumiyama T, Kamata K, et
