Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, served, pediatric, society, received, infectious, diseases, infectious diseases, tubes, funding, research funding, guideline, drainage, thoracostomy, recommendation


IDSA GUIDELINES T 2026 Clinical Practice Guideline Update by the Infectious P Diseases Society of America and the Pediatric Infectious I Diseases Society on The Management of CRommunity- acquired Pneumonia in Infants and ChildCren Older than 3 Months of Age: The Choice of CShest Tube Size U Shawn D. St. Peter1, Krow Ampofo2, Thomas Brogan3, Michael D. Cabana4, Claudia Espinosa5, Todd A. Florin6, Jeffrey S. Gerber7N, Michelle Gill8, Debra L. Palazzi9, Mark Sawyer10, Angela Statile11, Derek J. Williams12, Sheena Patel13**, Mark I. Neuman14*, Samir S. Shah15* A 1Children’s Mercy Kansas City, KansMas, USA; 2University of Utah, Utah, USA; 3University of D E P E of Medicine, Texas, USA; 10Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, UC San Diego School of C C ————————————————————————————————————————— A*co-senior authors, **lead methodologist Corresponding Author: Samir S. Shah (.) © The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases Society of translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact . This article is published and distributed under the terms of the Oxford publication-reuse-rights) DOI: 1 Downloaded from by guest on May and Practice Guidelines, Infectious Diseases Society of America, Virginia, USA 14Division of T This paper is part of a larger clinical practice guideline on the diagnosis and management of P parapneumonic effusion and empyema in children, developed by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. In this paper, the panel provides recommendations on the aIppropriate size of thoracostomy tube for drainage. The panel’s recommendations are basedR upon evidence derived from systematic literature reviews and adhere to a standardized methodology for rating the C certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation)S approach. U Key words. Chest tube, thoracostomy, pediatric, parapneumonic effusion N In children with parapneumonic effusion, should small bore (<12Fr) or large bore (>14Fr) thoracostomy tubes be used for drainage? A Recommendation: In children (3 months to 18 years) with parapneumonic effusion or empyema M that necessitate drainage, the panel members suggest the use of small-bore (<12Fr) thoracostomy tubes over large-bore (>14FR) tubes (conditional recommendation, very low certainty of evidence) Remark(s): D • Smaller tubes are eEffective at allowing for adequate drainage and for subsequent fibrinolysis. • Since the last IDSA update, all published protocols used 12 Fr or smaller thoracostomy tubes.
