Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, served, pediatric, society, received, infectious, diseases, infectious diseases, tubes, funding, research funding, guideline, drainage, thoracostomy, recommendation


• Smaller tubes are eEffective at allowing for adequate drainage and for subsequent fibrinolysis. • Since the last IDSA update, all published protocols used 12 Fr or smaller thoracostomy tubes. T A strong recommendation means most informed people would choose the recommended course of P action and only a small proportion would not. E A conditional recommendation means the majority of informed people would choose the suggested C course of action but many would not. C AINTRODUCTION Pleural drainage should be performed once parapneumonic effusions or empyemas become sufficiently large or complex or cause respiratory distress. Drainage may also be performed for diagnostic purposes. The mechanism for fluid drainage can range from thoracentesis to thoracostomy tube placement. Although thoracentesis without thoracostomy tube placement is sometimes performed, chest tube placement is standard following aspiration of fluid from a parapneumonic effusion. Additionally, thoracentesis does not allow for continued drainage should the effusion progress to empyema (CITE PICO 11 manuscript). Insertion of a thoracostomy tube DOI: 2 Downloaded from by guest on May allows immediate drainage and provides access to the pleural space for further interventions. This question addresses whether the size of the thoracostomy tube has therapeutic impact. This guideline is part of a larger clinical practice guideline on the diagnosis and management of parapneumonic effusion and empyema in children, developed by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases T Society (PIDS) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA), and has been endorsed by P the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS). I This guideline provides recommendations on the appropriate size thoracostomy tubes for drainage. R These recommendations replace previous statements in the initial iteration of this guideline . These recommendations are intended for use by healthcare profesCsionals who care for patients with parapneumonic effusion and empyema. S U METHODS N The panel’s recommendation is based on evidence derived from a comprehensive systematic literature review and adheres to a standardizeAd methodology for rating the certainty of evidence and strength of recommendation according to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations M Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) approach . The recommendations are labeled as “strong” or “conditional” according to an evaluation of the certainty of evidence, the balance between benefits and harms, patients’ values and preferences, resources/cost, and other factors D such as acceptability, feasibility, and equity. More details about the systematic review and guideline development prEocesses are presented in the Supplementary Material. T A comprehensive literature search (through
