Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, served, pediatric, society, received, infectious, diseases, infectious diseases, tubes, funding, research funding, guideline, drainage, thoracostomy, recommendation


factors D such as acceptability, feasibility, and equity. More details about the systematic review and guideline development prEocesses are presented in the Supplementary Material. T A comprehensive literature search (through July 2024) was conducted as part of a systematic review. Key eligibility criteria at both the topic and clinical question levels guided the search and P selection of studies for inclusion. For this question, the panel considered patients 3 months to 18 E years of age with parapneumonic effusion. Studies with adult populations were excluded, as well as inCternational populations in resource-limited areas. Randomized controlled trials and observational studies were screened for inclusion. C Studies were assessed for risk of bias using the Risk of Bias in Non-randomized Studies of A Interventions (ROBINS-1) tool . Included studies underwent critical appraisal according to the GRADE approach. An assessment of the benefits and harms of care options informed the recommendation(s) . Details of the systematic review and guideline development processes are available in the Supplementary material. SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE A comprehensive search identified a single observational study addressing the panel’s inclusion criteria . In this retrospective cohort study, 20 children were treated with traditional chest tubes DOI: 3 Downloaded from by guest on May (14-16Fr), and 12 were treated with smaller tubes (7-12 Fr). There was no statistically significant difference in length of stay between cohorts with different catheter sizes (12.5 ± 5.6 days vs. 17.3 ± 8.5 days, p=0.13). The authors also found no statistically significant difference in the risk of adverse events or procedure-related complications between groups. T The overall certainty of evidence is very low due to serious risk of bias concerns (according to the P ROBINS-I tool) and issues with imprecision resulting from the extremely small sample size. I The current recommendation reinforces the previous recommendation with supplemental and R congruent evidence . C S RATIONALE FOR RECOMMENDATION U Comparative evidence shows similar outcomes between small-bore and large-bore chest tubes, suggesting there are no disadvantages to using smaNller tubes to achieve adequate drainage. Since there are no clear benefits to using larger-bore thoracostomy tubes, and because smaller tubes are less invasive and associated with less pain, smAall-bore thoracostomy tube is recommended. M IMPLEMENTATION CONSIDERATIONS Smaller chest tubes are readiDly available in any market. Therefore, there should not be local implementation barriers. A clinical setting with the ability to drain the pleural space should be able E to use
