Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, served, pediatric, society, received, infectious, diseases, infectious diseases, tubes, funding, research funding, guideline, drainage, thoracostomy, recommendation


readiDly available in any market. Therefore, there should not be local implementation barriers. A clinical setting with the ability to drain the pleural space should be able E to use smaller tubes. T P RESEARCH NEEDS E Given the small sample sizes of included studies, larger studies comparing large versus small bore thoracCostomy tubes are needed. Additionally, future research should define the smallest bore tube that maintains the same efficacy for drainage and fibrinolytic administration, particularly among C infants and young children A Acknowledgments: First, the panel would like to acknowledge the previous panel, under the leadership of John Bradley, for their work on the previous iteration of this larger guideline. The panel would like to acknowledge the contributions of Elena Guadagno, medical librarian, for the creation and execution of PICO-specific literature search(es). Rebecca Goldwater and Loretta Dzanya provided project coordination. The panel would also like to acknowledge the following organizations and selected external reviewers for their review of the draft manuscript: the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS), Drs. Annabelle De St. Maurice, Jason Newland, Nanda Ramchandar, Pranavi Sreeramoju, and Surabhi (Sara) Vora. DOI: 4 Downloaded from by guest on May Samir S. Shah is chair of the pediatric CAP guideline panel. Mark Neuman is the vice-chair of the panel. Shawn St Peter and Krow Ampofo served as clinical leads for the questions addressed in this manuscript. Remaining panelists assisted with conception and design of the analysis, interpretation of data, drafting and revising the recommendations and manuscript, and final approval of the recommendations and manuscript to be published. Nigar Sekercioglu Tand Sheena Patel, methodologists, were responsible for general project management, designing and P performing the systematic review, and leading the panel according to the GRADE process. I Disclaimer: It is important to recognize that guidelines cannot alwaysR account for individual variation among patients. They are assessments of current scientific and clinical information C provided as an educational service; are not continually updated and may not reflect the most recent evidence (new evidence may emerge between the time inforSmation is drafted and when it is published or read); should not be considered inclusive of all proper methods of care, or as a U statement of the standard of care; do not mandate any course of medical care; and are not intended to supplant clinician judgment with respect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow
