Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, served, pediatric, society, received, infectious, diseases, infectious diseases, tubes, funding, research funding, guideline, drainage, thoracostomy, recommendation


the standard of care; do not mandate any course of medical care; and are not intended to supplant clinician judgment with respect to particular patients or situations. Whether to follow N guidelines and to what extent is voluntary, with the ultimate determination regarding their application to be made by the clinician in thAe light of each patient’s individual circumstances. While IDSA makes every effort to present accurate, complete, and reliable information, these guidelines are presented “as is” withoMut any warranty, either express or implied. IDSA (and its officers, directors, members, employees, and agents) assume no responsibility for any loss, damage, or claim with respect to any liabilities, including direct, special, indirect, or consequential D damages, incurred in connection with these guidelines or reliance on the information presented. E The guidelines represent the proprietary and copyrighted property of IDSA. All rights reserved. No part of these guidelines may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any T means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the P prior written permission of IDSA. Permission is granted to physicians and health care providers solely to coEpy and use the guidelines in their professional practices and clinical decision making. No license or permission is granted to any person or entity, and prior written authorization by C IDSA is required to sell, distribute, or modify the guidelines, or to make derivative works of or C software or any other software product. Except for the permission granted above, any person or Aentity desiring to use the guidelines in any way must contact IDSA for approval in accordance with the terms and conditions of third-party use, in particular any use of the guidelines in any software product. Financial support. This work was supported by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Possible conflicts of interest. Evaluation of relationships as potential conflicts of interest is determined by a review process. The assessment of disclosed relationships for possible COIs is based on the relative weight of the financial relationship (i.e., monetary amount) and the relevance of the relationship (i.e., the degree to which an association might reasonably be interpreted by an DOI: 5 Downloaded from by guest on May independent observer as related to the topic or recommendation of consideration). The following panelists have reported relationships with the indicated companies since 2018, when guideline development began; these relationships are unrelated to the topic of
