Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, served, pediatric, society, received, infectious, diseases, infectious diseases, tubes, funding, research funding, guideline, drainage, thoracostomy, recommendation


the topic or recommendation of consideration). The following panelists have reported relationships with the indicated companies since 2018, when guideline development began; these relationships are unrelated to the topic of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). K.K.A. served as a scientific advisor for Merck; served as an advisor for Janssen Pharmaceuticals; received research funding from the National Institute of ATllergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the State P Government of Utah; receives research funding from Merck. M.D.C. served as an advisor for I BioGaia, Thermo Fisher, Genentech, Novartis, and Nestlé; engaged in activities with the R International Scientific Association for Probiotics and Prebiotics (ISAPP); served as a member of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF); served as chairC of the American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Pediatric Research; received research funding from the Agency for S Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). C.E. served as an advisor for Sanofi, Janssen Association and Medavera for collaboration on the writing and publication of a manuscript addressing the use of molecular techniques in respNiratory infections; received research funding A (NIH), Melinta Therapeutics, Novavax, and Moderna; receives research funding from AHRQ, the M Pediatrics Committee of Infectious Diseases and as a Board Director (District III) for the AAP Florida Chapter. T.A.F. received honoraria from DiaSorin and Medscape/WebMD; served in editorial roles with Pediatric Research and Pediatric Emergency Care; served as a council member D for the Society for Pediatric Research; received research funding from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLEBI) and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI); served as strategy and operations officer for the Society for Pediatric Research; serves on the T Pediatric Academic Societies Board of Directors. J.S.G. received research funding from AHRQ, NIH, CDC, and PPCORI. M.G. served as president of the Society for Pediatric Research; served as a member of the Society for Pediatric Research Board of Directors; served as a member of the E Pediatric Academic Societies Board of Directors; served as ambassador for North American RegioCnal Societies for the Society for Pediatric Research; receives research funding from NIAID; receives research funding from the St. Louis Children’s Hospital Foundation. D.L.P. received C royalties from UpToDate; received honoraria from the American Academy of Pediatrics: APediatrics Review and Education Program (PREP) for Infectious Diseases, JAMA Pediatrics, and UpToDate; received honoraria from Lurie Children’s Hospital and the American Medical Association (AMA); received research funding from
