Clinical Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: research, served, pediatric, society, received, infectious, diseases, infectious diseases, tubes, funding, research funding, guideline, drainage, thoracostomy, recommendation


Pediatrics: APediatrics Review and Education Program (PREP) for Infectious Diseases, JAMA Pediatrics, and UpToDate; received honoraria from Lurie Children’s Hospital and the American Medical Association (AMA); received research funding from AHRQ and the Pew Charitable Trusts; owned intellectual property from Elsevier; served as associate editor for the Journal of the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (JPIDS) and the American Academy of Pediatrics PREP ID; serves on the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS) Board of Directors and Executive Committee; serves as president of PIDS. M.S. received research funding from the County of San Diego Health and Human Services Agency. A.M.S. received research funding from PCORI, the Children and DOI: 6 Downloaded from by guest on May Foundation; reported a family relationship in which a spouse served as a consultant for echocardiography study interpretation for the Midwest Cardiovascular Research and Education (MCORE) Foundation. D.J.W. received research funding from AHRQ and NIH for work related to the Seattle-based Pediatric Health Information Partnership (P-HIP) initiative aimed at improving pediatric mental health care; serves on the Executive Council for the Pediatric RTesearch in Inpatient Setting (PRIS) Network; serves on the Editorial Board for the Journal of Hospital P Medicine; receives research funding from AHRQ and NIH. S.S.S. served in editorial roles with I JAMA Pediatrics for the American Medical Association; served as senior deputy editor and then R editor-in-chief for the Journal of Hospital Medicine for the Society of Hospital Medicine; served as associate editor for the Journal of the Pediatric Infectious DCiseases Society; served as a Committee on Infectious Diseases member for the American Academy of Pediatrics; served as S vice-chair for Pediatric Research in Inpatient Settings; received honoraria from the Society of Department of Public Health. M.N. served as associate editor for Pediatrics for the American Academy of Pediatrics; received research grants froNm Harvard University; serves as Co-Editor-in- Chief of Pediatric Emergency Care; receives honoraria from Wolters Kluwer for editorial roles A with UpToDate and Pediatric Emergency Care; provides medical expert consultation, including medical record review and expert testimony in legal cases for law firms on issues not related to M pneumonia. The following panelists have reported relationships with the indicated companies since 2018, when D guideline development began; these relationships are related to the topic of community- acquired pneumonia (CAP). K.K.A. served in advisory roles involving patient enrollment for E ceftolozane/tazobactTam, and bezlotoxumab (all such relationships are no longer active). D.L.P. served on
