Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


typically has mild intellectual disability. Each child of an individual with KMT2E-NDD has a 50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic variant. Once the KMT2E pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Diagnosis No consensus clinical diagnostic criteria for KMT2E-related neurodevelopmental disorder (KMT2E-NDD) have been published. Suggestive Findings KMT2E-NDD should be considered in individuals with the following clinical and brain MRI findings. Clinical findings • Mild-to-profound developmental delay (DD) or intellectual disability (ID), although most individuals fall within the mild-to-moderate range AND • Any of the following features presenting in infancy or childhood: ⚬ Generalized hypotonia of infancy ⚬ Gastrointestinal symptoms, including vomiting and reduced bowel motility ⚬ Seizures, including febrile seizures ⚬ Autism spectrum disorder ⚬ Behavioral issues ⚬ Macrocephaly (often relative to length/height) ⚬ Microcephaly (in some individuals with missense pathogenic variants) (See Genotype-Phenotype Correlations.) ⚬ Sleep disturbance, including frequent awakenings and difficulty falling asleep ⚬ Minor dysmorphic features (See Clinical Description and Figure 1.) ⚬ Nonspecific brain abnormalities, including hypoplasia of the corpus callosum, ventriculomegaly, cerebral cysts, and/or delayed myelination Family history. Because KMT2E-NDD is typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant, most probands represent a simplex case (i.e., a single occurrence in a family). Establishing the Diagnosis The diagnosis of KMT2E-NDD is established in a proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely pathoge variant in KMT2E identified by molecular genetic testing (see Table 1). KMT2E-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder 3 Figure 1. Consistent facial features of individuals with KMT2E-related neurodevelopmental disorder include dolichocephaly, tall forehead, and deep-set eyes, often with downslanting palpebral fissures, periorbital fullness, prominent cheeks, and prominent nasolabial folds. (A) Individual 9 – age 11 years; (B) Individual 11 – age 1 year, 10 months; (C) Individual 12 – age 4.5 years; (D) Individual 13 – age 6 years; (E) Individual 15 – age 1 year, 7 months; (F) Individual 20 – age 6 years; (G) Individual 24 – age 5 years; (H) Individual 25 – age 12 years; (I) Individual 30 – age 18 years; (J) Individual 31 – age 22 years; (K) Individual 32 – age 7 years; (L) Individual 33 – age 16 years. Included on the bottom right of each cluster is the individual's sex. NMD = nonsense mediated decay Reprinted with permission from O'Donnell-Luria et al Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and
