Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


each cluster is the individual's sex. NMD = nonsense mediated decay Reprinted with permission from O'Donnell-Luria et al Note: (1) Per ACMG/AMP variant interpretation guidelines, the terms "pathogenic variant" and "likely be used for clinical decision making [Richards et al 2015]. Reference to "pathogenic variants" in this chapter is understood to include likely pathogenic variants. (2) Identification of a heterozygous KMT2E variant of uncertain significance (KMT2E missense variants of uncertain significance are a common finding [Author, personal observation]) does not establish or rule out the diagnosis. Segregation in parents should be considered 4 GeneReviews ® in these situations to determine if the variant is de novo or inherited from an affected parent (supporting pathogenicity) or inherited from an unaffected parent (suggesting it may be benign). Molecular genetic testing in a child with developmental delay or an older individual with intellectual disability may begin with chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA). Other options include use of a multigene panel or exome/genome sequencing. Note: Single-gene testing (sequence analysis of KMT2E, followed by gene-targeted deletion/duplication analysis) is rarely useful and typically NOT recommended. • An intellectual disability multigene panel that includes KMT2E and other genes of interest (see Differential Diagnosis) is most likely to identify the genetic cause of the condition in a person with a nondiagnostic CMA while limiting identification of variants of uncertain significance and pathogenic variants in genes that do not explain the underlying phenotype. Note: (1) The genes included in the panel and the diagnostic sensitivity of the testing used for each gene vary by laboratory and are likely to change over time. (2) Some multigene panels may include genes not associated with the condition discussed in this GeneReview. Of note, given the rarity of KMT2E-NDD, some panels for intellectual disability may not include this gene. (3) In some laboratories, panel options may include a custom laboratory-designed panel and/or custom phenotype-focused exome analysis that includes genes specified by the clinician. (4) Methods used in a panel may include sequence analysis, deletion/duplication analysis, and/or other non- sequencing-based tests. genetic tests can be found here. • Comprehensive genomic testing does not require the clinician to determine which gene(s) are likely involved. Exome sequencing is most commonly used and yields results similar to an intellectual disability multigene panel, with the additional advantage that exome sequencing includes genes recently identified as causing intellectual disability, whereas some multigene panels may not. Genome sequencing is also possible;
