Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


seizure semiology or epilepsy syndrome described in individuals with KMT2E-NDD. • About 14% of individuals with protein-truncating pathogenic variants have been reported to have seizures (two with unprovoked seizures, one with a single seizure, and two with treatment-resistant epilepsy). • All five individuals with pathogenic missense variants had epilepsy, four of whom had treatment-resistant infantile epilepsy [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Li et al 2021]. • Three affected individuals were noted to have febrile seizures [Li et al 2021, Velmans et al 2022]. • Sex-related differences have also been noted, with epilepsy reported in 43% of females (3/7) but in only 5% of males (1/21) in one study [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019]. This suggests the possibility of decreased penetrance or variable expressivity of the seizure phenotype in females with de novo protein-truncating pathogenic variants. Two individuals (one with a missense pathogenic variant and the other with a frameshift pathogenic variant) are known to have experienced developmental regression with some improvement in epilepsy when started on a ketogenic diet, so careful monitoring should be in place if this therapy is considered (see Management) [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019; A O'Donnell-Luria, personal observation]. More evidence is needed to determine if ketogenic diet is contraindicated in individuals with this condition. Neurobehavioral/psychiatric problems • Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is seen more frequently in males with KMT2E-NDD than in affected females [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Conforti et al 2021, Li et al 2021, Sharawat et al 2021, Velmans et al 2022]. • Some affected individuals have behavioral concerns other than ASD; stereotypies, skin-picking behavior, self-injurious behavior, aggression, anxiety, and sensory integration disorder has been reported in 17% of individuals. At least two affected individuals have been diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Velmans et al 2022]. Musculoskeletal features / tone abnormalities • Hypotonia is reported in about 46% of individuals with KMT2E-NDD. In two individuals, this presented as feeding difficulties in the newborn period. There is not enough data to determine if hypotonia resolves with time, although it tends to improve with age. KMT2E-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder 7 • General joint laxity is reported in some affected individuals [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Abreu et al 2022, Velmans et al 2022, Cao et al 2022]. No joint dislocations have been reported. Growth. Growth parameters can be variable, but most are in the normal range for length/height and weight, both at birth and later in life. About
