Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


joint dislocations have been reported. Growth. Growth parameters can be variable, but most are in the normal range for length/height and weight, both at birth and later in life. About half of individuals have macrocephaly (>2 standard deviations above the mean, i.e., z score for age >2) or relative macrocephaly (defined as head circumference z score for age 1 or more points higher than the length z score). Several individuals with pathogenic missense variants had microcephaly (see Genotype-Phenotype Correlations) [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Velmans et al 2022]. Gastrointestinal issues, including gastroesophageal reflux, vomiting, and/or reduced bowel motility has been reported in almost 50% of affected individuals [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Velmans et al 2022]. Constipation was the most frequently reported gastrointestinal issue and is likely related to low muscle tone. Sleep disturbance. About half of affected individuals have some type of sleep disturbance, including frequent awakening and difficulties falling asleep [Velmans et al 2022]. While data on sleep issues are limited, mild sleep apnea has only been reported in one affected individual [A O'Donnell-Luria, personal observation]. Facial features. If present, dysmorphic features are usually subtle and nonspecific. Facial features including dolichocephaly, tall forehead, deep-set eyes, periorbital fullness, malar prominence, and prominent nasolabial folds are seen in a subset of affected individuals (see Figure 1) [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Li et al 2021, Velmans et al 2022]. A composite facial phenotype is provided in Figure 2. However, no recognizable dysmorphic pattern has been observed in individuals with this condition. Neuroimaging. Brain imaging was reported as normal in most affected individuals who underwent imaging. About 20% showed nonspecific findings, such as abnormal corpus callosum, signal abnormalities in the white matter, decreased volume, ventriculomegaly, pachygyria, delayed myelination, small areas of heterotopia, or small localized cysts [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Velmans et al 2022]. Hydrocephalus has not been reported. Prognosis. It is unknown whether life span in KMT2E-NDD is abnormal. One reported individual is alive at age 54 years [Conforti et al 2021], demonstrating that survival into adulthood is possible. Since many adults with disabilities have not undergone advanced genetic testing, it is likely that adults with this condition are underrecognized and underreported. Genotype-Phenotype Correlations Only five individuals have been reported with pathogenic missense variants. Individuals with pathogenic missense variants in KMT2E have been reported to have microcephaly (as opposed to macrocephaly) and more severe seizures compared to those who have pathogenic protein-truncating variants
