Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


variants. Individuals with pathogenic missense variants in KMT2E have been reported to have microcephaly (as opposed to macrocephaly) and more severe seizures compared to those who have pathogenic protein-truncating variants [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Conforti et al 2021, Li et al 2021, Sharawat et al 2021, Velmans et al 2022]. Prevalence To date, 61 individuals have been identified with a pathogenic variant in KMT2E [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Conforti et al 2021, Li et al 2021, Sharawat et al 2021, Abreu et al 2022, Cao et al 2022, Velmans et al 2022]. Ther e is no evidence to indicate a higher prevalence in any particular population. Genetically Related (Allelic) Disorders No phenotypes other than those discussed in this GeneReview are known to be associated with germline intragenic pathogenic variants in KMT2E. Contiguous gene deletions that include KMT2E 8 GeneReviews ® Figure 2. Composite figure analysis of the facial phenotype of individuals with KMT2E-related neurodevelopmental disorder in Figure 1, excluding Individual 30, who is wearing glasses Reprinted with permission from O'Donnell-Luria et al • Kosma et al described a male individual with a 239-kilobase (kb) deletion of 7q22.3 that included KMT2E and LHFPL3. This is one of the smallest deletions of this region reported to date and helped to confirm the core features of KMT2E-NDD, including the dysmorphic facial features, developmental delay, hypotonia, and gastrointestinal symptoms. Abnormalities of the urinary tract were also noted in this individual, but it cannot be definitively attributed to the disruption of KMT2E alone. • O'Donnell-Luria et al and Velmans et al reported a total of five other individuals with 7q22.2-22.3 deletions involving KMT2E and adjacent gene(s). These individuals presented similarly to those with truncating KMT2E pathogenic variants but with more severe developmental delays, which is likely explained by the influence of additional genes included in their deletions. Differential Diagnosis Because the phenotypic features associated with KMT2E-related neurodevelopmental disorder are not sufficien t to diagnose this condition, all disorders with intellectual disability without other distinctive findings should be considered in the differential diagnosis. See OMIM Phenotypic Series for genes associated with: • Autosomal dominant intellectual developmental disorder • Autosomal recessive intellectual developmental disorder • Nonsyndromic X-linked intellectual developmental disorder • Syndromic X-linked intellectual developmental disorder Management No clinical practice guidelines for KMT2E-related neurodevelopmental disorder (KMT2E-NDD) have been published. Evaluations Following Initial Diagnosis To establish the extent of disease and needs in an individual diagnosed with KMT2E-NDD,
