Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


communication [AAC]) for individuals who have expressive language difficulties. An AAC evaluation can be completed by a speech-language pathologist who has expertise in the area. The evaluation will consider cognitive abilities and sensory impairments to determine the most appropriate form of communication. AAC devices can range from low-tech, such as picture exchange communication, to high-tech, such as voice- rather support optimal speech and language development. Social/Behavioral Concerns Children may qualify for and benefit from interventions used in treatment of autism spectrum disorder, including applied behavior analysis (ABA). ABA therapy is targeted to the individual child's behavioral, social, and adaptive strengths and weaknesses and typically performed one on one with a board-certified behavior analyst. Concerns about serious aggressive or destructive behavior can be addressed by a pediatric psychiatrist. Surveillance To monitor existing manifestations, the individual's response to supportive care, and the emergence of new manifestations, the evaluations summarized in Table 5 are recommended. 12 GeneReviews ® Table 5. KMT2E-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder: Recommended Surveillance System/Concern Evaluation Frequency Measurement of growth parameters, incl head Growth circumference 1 • Monitor those w/seizures as clinically indicated. 2 Neurologic • Assess for new manifestations such as seizures or changes in tone. Development Monitor developmental progress & educational needs. Neurobehavioral/ Assess for anxiety, ADHD, ASD, aggression, & self-injury. Psychiatric At each visit Physical medicine, OT/PT assessment of mobility, self-help Musculoskeletal skills Gastrointestinal Monitor for chronic vomiting & constipation. Respiratory/Sleep Assess for signs/symptoms of sleep disturbance. Assess family need for social work support (e.g., palliative/ Family/Community respite care, home nursing, other local resources) & care coordination. OT = occupational therapy; PT = physical therapy 2. Careful monitoring is required if an affected individual is placed on a ketogenic diet, given that one affected individual placed on this therapy experienced developmental regression (without improvement in seizure control) [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019]. Evaluation of Relatives at Risk See Genetic Counseling for issues related to testing of at-risk relatives for genetic counseling purposes. Therapies Under Investigation Search ClinicalTrials.gov in the US and EU Clinical Trials Register in Europe for access to information on clinical studies for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Note: There may not be clinical trials for this disorder. Genetic Counseling Genetic counseling is the process of providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section
