Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


providing individuals and families with information on the nature, mode(s) of inheritance, and implications of genetic disorders to help them make informed medical and personal decisions. Th e following section deals with genetic risk assessment and the use of family history and genetic testing to clarify genetic status for family members; it is not meant to address all personal, cultural, or ethical issues that may arise or to substitute for consultation with a genetics professional. —ED. Mode of Inheritance KMT2E-related neurodevelopmental disorder (KMT2E-NDD) is an autosomal dominant disorder typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. Risk to Family Members Parents of a proband KMT2E-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder 13 • Most probands reported to date with KMT2E-NDD whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as the result of a de novo KMT2E pathogenic variant. • Rarely, individuals diagnosed with KMT2E-NDD inherited a KMT2E pathogenic protein-truncating variant from an affected parent with (typically) mild intellectual disability. Confirmed parental transmission of a KMT2E pathogenic protein-truncating variant has been reported in two families with one affected child (one maternally and one paternally inherited) and one family with two affected children (paternally inherited); presumed parental transmission has been reported in one family with three affecte d children (the pathogenic variant was not maternally inherited and the father was not available for testing) [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019, Velmans et al 2022]. • Molecular genetic testing is recommended for the parents of the proband to evaluate their genetic status and inform recurrence risk assessment. • If the pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not identified in either parent and parental identity testing has confirmed biological maternity and paternity, the following possibilities should be considered: ⚬ The proband has a de novo pathogenic variant. ⚬ The proband inherited a pathogenic variant from a parent with germline (or somatic and germline) mosaicism.* Note: Testing of parental leukocyte DNA may not detect all instances of somatic mosaicism and will not detect a pathogenic variant that is present in the germ cells only. * Theoretically, a parent with somatic and germline mosaicism for a KMT2E pathogenic variant may be mildly/minimally affected. Sibs of a proband. The risk to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is known to have the KMT2E pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of
