Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


status of the proband's parents: • If a parent of the proband is known to have the KMT2E pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting the variant is 50%. • If the KMT2E pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is estimated to be 1% because of the theoretic possibility of parental germline mosaicism [Rahbari et al 2016]. Offspring of a proband. Each child of an individual with KMT2E-NDD has a 50% chance of inheriting the KMT2E pathogenic variant. Other family members. The risk to other family members depends on the status of the proband's parents: if a parent has the KMT2E pathogenic variant, the parent's family members may be at risk. Related Genetic Counseling Issues Family planning • The optimal time for determination of genetic risk and discussion of the availability of prenatal/ preimplantation genetic testing is before pregnancy. • It is appropriate to offer genetic counseling (including discussion of potential risks to offspring and reproductive options) to parents of affected individuals. Prenatal Testing and Preimplantation Genetic Testing Once the KMT2E pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible. 14 GeneReviews ® Differences in perspective may exist among medical professionals and within families regarding the use of prenatal testing. While most centers would consider use of prenatal testing to be a personal decision, discussion of these issues may be helpful. Resources GeneReviews staff has selected the following disease-specific and/or umbrella support organizations and/or registries for the benefit of individuals with this disorder and their families. GeneReviews is not responsible for the • Simons Searchlight Phone: 855-329-5638 Email: KMT2E • American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD) Phone: 202-387-1968 aaidd.org • CDC - Child Development Phone: 800-232-4636 Developmental Disability Basics • MedlinePlus Intellectual Disability Molecular Genetics Information in the Molecular Genetics and OMIM tables may differ from that elsewhere in the GeneReview: tables may contain more recent information. —ED. Table A. KMT2E-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder: Genes and Databases Gene Chromosome Locus Protein HGMD ClinVar KMT2E 7q22.3 Inactive histone-lysine N- KMT2E KMT2E methyltransferase 2E Data are compiled from the following standard references: gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for KMT2E-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder (View All in OMIM) 608444 LYSINE-SPECIFIC METHYLTRANSFERASE 2E; KMT2E 618512 O''''DONNELL-LURIA-RODAN SYNDROME;
