Bookshelf_NBK602945
KEYWORDS: individuals, pathogenic, disorder, variant, related, genetic, affected, developmental, reported, ndd, individual, variants, donnell-luria, neurodevelopmental, intellectual


gene from HGNC; chromosome locus from OMIM; protein from UniProt. Table B. OMIM Entries for KMT2E-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder (View All in OMIM) 608444 LYSINE-SPECIFIC METHYLTRANSFERASE 2E; KMT2E 618512 O''''DONNELL-LURIA-RODAN SYNDROME; ODLURO Molecular Pathogenesis KMT2E encodes a histone methyltransferase protein, inactive histone-lysine N-methyltransferase 2E (KMT2E), but studies suggest lack of an intrinsic methyltransferase activity. The gene product functions as a transcriptional regulator in diverse biological processes, including cell cycle progression, maintenance of genomic stability, adult hematopoiesis, and spermatogenesis. KMT2E is ubiquitously expressed in most tissues including the developing fetal brain [Fagerberg et al 2014]. However, how disruption of KMT2E results in a neurodevelopmental condition is currently not understood. KMT2E-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder 15 Mechanism of disease causation. Likely loss of function. The majority of individuals with KMT2E-related neurodevelopmental disorder have protein-truncating pathogenic variants, including nonsense, frameshift, and splice-disrupting pathogenic variants, suggesting that haploinsufficiency is the likely disease mechanism, but this has not been confirmed. Some individuals with de novo pathogenic missense variants presented with a more severe phenotype, leading authors to hypothesize an alternate mechanism such as gain of function and dominant-negative, though additional research is needed [O'Donnell-Luria et al 2019]. Chapter Notes Author Notes attending physician in the Division of Genetics and Genomics at Boston Children's Hospital and an Assistant Professor in Pediatrics at Harvard Medical School. She co-directs the EpiChroma Clinic at Boston Children's Hospital for children and adults with known or suspected disorders involving the genes that are important for chromatin. She is also the Co-Director of the Center for Mendelian Genomics (CMG) and Institute Member at thousands of families affected with rare disease to improve genetic diagnosis and novel disease gene discovery. Web page: bchgenetics.org/people/anne-odonnell-luria Email: physician in the Division of Genetics and Genomics and the Department of Neurology at Boston Children's Hospital. He is an Assistant Professor in Pediatrics at Harvard Medical School. Dr Rodan is a member of the Undiagnosed Diseases Network (UDN). Dr Rodan's clinical and research interests include diagnosis and management of neurogenetic and neurometabolic disorders. Web page: bchgenetics.org/people/lance-h-rodan Email: Lynn Pais is a Board-certified clinical genetic counselor in the Division of Genetics and Genomics at Boston Children's Hospital. She is also a Senior Clinical Genomic Variant Analyst at the Center for Mendelian with rare disease to improve genetic diagnosis and novel disease gene discovery. Web page: epichromaclinic.com Email: Acknowledgments Support was provided by the National Institutes of Health's National Institute of Child Health
