Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


switch (BPD/DS), Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), sleeve gastrectomy (SG), and adjustable gastric band (AGB) ( 5 ). This chapter also addresses the benefits of bariatric surgery on obesity-related conditions including type 2 diabetes ( 5 ). As the postoperative bariatric surgery patient population increases with time, endocrinologists and primary care providers must have the training and tools required to meet the population’s medical needs. In this chapter, we first review the postoperative approach to chronic co-morbid medical conditions, focusing on type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. We then discuss potential medical and nutritional complications of bariatric surgery ( Table 1 ), including the pathophysiology, screening, and treatment of those potential complications. Psychiatric and behavior disorders, such as depression and substance abuse, associated with bariatric surgery are not discussed in this chapter as they are not usually managed by endocrinologists. Table 1. Potential Medical and Nutritional Complications of Bariatric Surgery View in own window Micronutrient deficiencies Dumping syndrome Post-bariatric hypoglycemia Cholelithiasis Nephrolithiasis Bone loss and fracture POSTOPERATIVE APPROACH TO CHRONIC METABOLIC CONDITIONS In the perioperative and early postoperative periods (usually the first 30 to 90 days after surgery), a patient’s surgeon will monitor closely for surgical complications such as anastomotic leak, deep vein thrombosis, and infection. An experienced dietitian generally assists with meal initiation and progression. Later, regular follow-up with the surgeon—including, eventually, annual follow-up for life—is essential for assessing weight loss success and reinforcing necessary lifestyle modifications. The primary care provider or endocrinologist assumes responsibility for the early and later postoperative management of chronic medical conditions, including diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. This section summarizes the effects of bariatric surgery on those conditions and the recommended approach to management. Postoperative Diabetes Management Bariatric surgery dramatically improves glucose homeostasis and type 2 diabetes (T2D). After RYGB in particular, these improvements are both weight loss-dependent and weight loss-independent, with weight loss-independent effects likely mediated by alterations in gut hormones, gastrointestinal tract nutrient sensing, bile acid metabolism, and the gut microbiome ( 6 , 7 ). Due to these complex factors and the effects of postoperative calorie restriction, improvement in glucose homeostasis is evident within days to weeks following RYGB. ( 8 , 9 ). In an early systematic review and meta-analysis, diabetes remission was observed in 99% of those with T2D who underwent BPD/DS, 84% of those who underwent RYGB, and 48% of those who underwent AGB ( 1 ). Of participants in
