Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


was observed in 99% of those with T2D who underwent BPD/DS, 84% of those who underwent RYGB, and 48% of those who underwent AGB ( 1 ). Of participants in the Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric Surgery-2 (LABS-2) study with T2D, 59% of RYGB participants and 25% of AGB participants were in diabetes remission 7 years after surgery ( 10 ). Even after controlling for differences in the amount of weight lost, the diabetes remission rate after RYGB was almost double that after AGB ( 11 ). SG is positioned between RYGB and AGB in T2D effectiveness ( 12 - 14 ). The hospitalist, endocrinologist, or primary care provider caring for a bariatric surgery patient with T2D must anticipate a quick and potentially dramatic improvement in glycemic status ( 15 , 16 ). Typically, oral insulin secretagogues (sulfonylureas and meglitinides) are discontinued at the time of surgery to decrease hypoglycemia risk. Insulin doses should be reduced in the hospital and upon discharge home, with strict instructions provided to the patient for self-monitoring blood glucose levels and adjustments of insulin doses to avoid hypoglycemia. Metformin is often continued postoperatively, with appropriate caution exercised in patients with reduced kidney function, until blood glucose levels and hemoglobin A 1c in the subsequent months suggest that it can be discontinued. While incretin-based therapies (GLP-1 receptor agonists and DPP-4 inhibitors) can generally be continued safely (after temporarily holding GLP-1 receptor agonists for the procedure itself per hospital protocol), they are often discontinued postoperatively because of the apparent effects of bariatric surgery on incretin physiology. SGLT2 inhibitors are likely not needed for glycemic control postoperatively but may be continued in some individuals with other (e.g., heart failure or chronic kidney disease) indications. Thiazolidinediones could also be theoretically continued but are often discontinued in part due to expected postoperative changes in insulin sensitivity and volume status. Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors should be discontinued due to their gastrointestinal effects. Close glucose monitoring is critical regardless of the initial postoperative T2D medication regimen. For patients using insulin or an insulin secretagogue, this must include patient self-monitoring of blood glucose levels with a clear plan for adjustments. For others, self-monitoring may be reassuring and should be individualized. Hemoglobin A 1c monitoring should be routinely continued long-term (years). While glucose control improves to the point of complete remission in most patients in the year after bariatric surgery (70% or more ( 10 ) depending
