Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


routinely continued long-term (years). While glucose control improves to the point of complete remission in most patients in the year after bariatric surgery (70% or more ( 10 ) depending on the procedure), certain patients are at higher risk for not achieving remission or for having diabetes recur over time, including older patients, those with a longer-duration of diabetes, and those who were using insulin or required more than one non-insulin medication ( 11 , 17 ). Such patients are characterized by a greater impairment in insulin secretory capacity. Long-term data elucidate the proportions of T2D patients who achieve and maintain complete remission: In a cohort of RYGB patients, of those with T2D preoperatively, 75% had remitted 2 years postoperatively, 62% at 6 years, and 51% at 12 years ( 17 ). In the LABS-2 study, 7 years after surgery, 60% of RYGB participants and 20% of AGB participants were in diabetes remission ( 10 ). In patients not reaching glycemic targets or experiencing relapses, diabetes therapies can be resumed or added. A reasonable approach is first to add/restart metformin, then, if needed, add one or more other weight-neutral or weight loss-promoting agents such as a GLP-1 receptor agonist, a DPP-4 inhibitor, or an SGLT2 inhibitor. Post Opérative Hypertension Management Reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been demonstrated at just one week after RYGB. ( 18 ), suggesting weight loss-dependent and weight loss-independent mechanisms ( 19 ). An early systematic review and meta-analysis of bariatric surgery outcomes demonstrated that, of patients with a preoperative diagnosis of hypertension, hypertension resolved completely after surgery in 62% and resolved or improved in 79% ( 1 ). Frank remission was observed in 83% of those who underwent BPD/DS, 68% of those who underwent RYGB, and 43% of those who underwent AGB. Subsequent studies have yielded less impressive but still very favorable results ( 19 , 20 ). For example, of participants in the LABS-2 study with hypertension, 38% of RYGB participants and 17% of AGB participants had complete remission of hypertension 3 years after surgery ( 21 ), and 33% of RYGB participants and 17% of AGB participants had complete remission after 7 years ( 10 ). SG also has a substantial effect on hypertension, with resolution or improvement in the majority of cases ( 22 ), although the odds of resolution of hypertension appear greater after RYGB than SG ( 23
