Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


effect on hypertension, with resolution or improvement in the majority of cases ( 22 ), although the odds of resolution of hypertension appear greater after RYGB than SG ( 23 ). Because the effect of bariatric surgery on blood pressure is thought to be variable and potentially less durable than on glucose metabolism, the Clinical Practice Guidelines of the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE), The Obesity Society (TOS), and American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) recommend against the preemptive discontinuation of antihypertensive medications ( 24 ). Instead, providers should pay close attention to blood pressure postoperatively in the hospital and at every postoperative clinic visit and adjust medications when indicated ( 15 ). Postoperative Dyslipidemia Management Bariatric surgery may improve dyslipidemia by altering diet, various endocrine and inflammatory factors, bile acid metabolism, and potentially even the intestinal microbiome ( 25 ). An early systematic review and meta-analysis of bariatric surgery outcomes demonstrated that among patients undergoing AGB, RYGB, gastroplasty, or BPD/DS, hyperlipidemia improved in 79%, hypercholesterolemia improved in 71%, and hypertriglyceridemia improved in 82% ( 1 ). Of participants in the Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric Surgery-2 (LABS-2) study, 62% of RYGB participants and 27% of AGB participants had remission of dyslipidemia 3 years after surgery ( 21 ), and percentages were generally similar 7 years after surgery ( 10 ). Regarding the SG, a systematic review confirmed its effectiveness for the treatment of dyslipidemia ( 26 ). In STAMPEDE, a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of RYGB, SG, or intensive medical therapy alone among overweight and obese patients with T2D, both RYGB and SG increased HDL and decreased TG levels compared to placebo ( 13 ). Change in LDL level was not different between groups, although the number of medications needed to treat hyperlipidemia was lower in the surgical groups than in the medical therapy group. Unlike insulin and anti-hypertensive medications, which must be decreased or discontinued when no longer needed to mitigate the acute dangers of overtreatment, lipid-lowering medications may be continued during the metabolically dynamic early postoperative period. Moreover, even after postoperative improvement in dyslipidemia, many bariatric surgery patients will continue to meet criteria for statin use based on the current American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guideline ( 27 ) and US Preventive Services Task Force recommendations ( 28 ), especially those at very high risk for cardiovascular events, including secondary prevention. With this in
