Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


Association guideline ( 27 ) and US Preventive Services Task Force recommendations ( 28 ), especially those at very high risk for cardiovascular events, including secondary prevention. With this in mind, for many patients, endocrinologists and primary care providers should be cautious about creating expectations that statin therapy will be discontinued postoperatively. Instead, a patient’s cardiovascular risk should be periodically evaluated and the potential role of statins discussed in an individualized manner. Medication Adjustments Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) should be avoided after bariatric surgery because of the risk of gastric and marginal ulcer development ( 29 ). In many bariatric centers, proton pump inhibitor therapy is prescribed postoperatively, as evidence from cohort studies suggests that it may decrease ulcer risk ( 30 ), and in light of the potential for incident or worsening gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) after SG ( 31 ). Endocrinologists and primary care providers should be prepared to make adjustments to the dose of any medication that is dosed based on weight ( e.g., levothyroxine), and to consider potential effects of malabsorption on a patient’s usual oral medications. PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF POSTOPERATIVE MEDICAL AND NUTRITIONAL COMPLICATIONS While a patient’s surgeon monitors closely for postoperative surgical complications, the primary care provider or endocrinologist often identifies and manages postoperative medical and nutritional complications. This section reviews these potential complications ( Table 1 ), with attention to pathophysiology, screening, and therapeutic approach. Micronutrient Deficiencies Given the dietary changes, rerouting of nutrient flow, and gut anatomy/physiology alterations that occur after bariatric surgery, patients who undergo these procedures are at risk for micronutrient deficiencies. Some of these deficiencies can result in severe consequences, such as neuropathy, heart failure, and encephalopathy. Therefore, it is essential that patients comprehend the importance of compliance and the need for lifelong supplementation. Patients who have malabsorptive procedures, such as RYGB or BPD/DS, are at highest risk for micronutrient deficiencies, but even with restrictive procedures, decreased oral intake and poor tolerance to certain food groups may also increase the risk for micronutrient deficiencies. Therefore, preoperative nutritional evaluation and postoperative monitoring and supplementation are necessary. Tables 2 - 5 represent recommendations that have been adapted and modified from the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) Integrated Health Nutrition Guidelines ( 32 ) and the Clinical Practice Guidelines from the combined American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE), The Obesity Society (TOS), and ASMBS ( 24 ). These
