Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


There is insufficient evidence to make a dose-related recommendation Copper Mild-moderate deficiency: oral copper gluconate or sulfate 3-8 mg/day Severe deficiency: 2-4 mg/day of intravenous copper x 6 days Table modified from the ASMBS Integrated Health Nutritional Guidelines ( 32 ). IM, intramuscular; IV, intravenous. † Recommendation from the AACE/TOS/ASMBS Clinical Practice Guidelines ( 24 ). * In chronic kidney disease, PTH goal should be appropriate for renal function ( 34 , 35 ). Dumping Syndrome and Post-Bariatric Hypoglycemia Early and late dumping syndromes are a result of altered gastrointestinal anatomy and hormone secretion after bariatric surgery. The two syndromes have distinct symptomatology and pathophysiology though there is considerable overlap in dietary triggers and treatment approaches. Late dumping syndrome is hallmarked by hypoglycemia and will henceforth be referred to as post-bariatric hypoglycemia (PBH). Early Dumping Syndrome Early dumping syndrome (DS) typically occurs within 1 hour of eating and is characterized by both gastrointestinal (nausea, abdominal fullness, diarrhea) and vasomotor symptoms (fainting, sleepiness, weakness, diaphoresis, palpitations, and desire to lie down) ( 36 ). Dumping syndrome symptoms can appear as early as 6 weeks after surgery and has been reported to affect up to 20% according to large survey studies and up to 40% in smaller prospective studies of individuals who have undergone both restrictive and malabsorptive procedures ( 37 - 40 ). The pathophysiology of DS is not completely understood but is thought to be due to both a rapid delivery of nutrients to the small intestine causing an osmotic shift of intravascular fluid to the intestinal lumen as well as an increased release of gastrointestinal hormones that disrupt motility and hemodynamic status ( 41 - 43 ). The rate of DS may be more common in those who underwent cholecystectomy suggesting a contribution of altered bile acid release ( 44 ). There is debate in the literature on whether DS is an adaptive consequence of bariatric surgery that helps restrict food intake and aids weight loss versus an adverse consequence that reduces quality of life and does not contribute to weight loss ( 37 , 45 , 46 ). The diagnosis of DS should be made after the exclusion of more serious entities such as intestinal fistulas, adhesions, ischemia, herniation, obstipation, and gallstone disease which may have shared clinical features ( 42 ). There are validated questionnaires as well as provocation tests that have been used to confirm DS
