Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


herniation, obstipation, and gallstone disease which may have shared clinical features ( 42 ). There are validated questionnaires as well as provocation tests that have been used to confirm DS in research settings. Oral glucose challenge with an increase in heart rate and hematocrit (indicating hemoconcentration) is one such approach ( 36 , 47 , 48 ). The first line treatment for DS is to modify the diet to avoid foods that worsen symptoms (oftentimes calorie-dense foods with high fat/refined sugar content and low in fiber), eating small volume meals, not eating and drinking at the same time, eating slowly, chewing well, and avoiding alcohol. Indeed, patients often implement these changes on their own and, over time, symptom severity improves or resolves in many (if not most) patients. In addition, lying down for 30 minutes after eating to slow gastric emptying and mitigate symptoms of hypovolemia may be helpful if symptoms occur ( 49 ). There are several small interventional studies and case reports that support the use of dietary supplements ( e.g., pectin, guar gum) that increase food viscosity and reduced symptoms of DS, however low palatability and potential choking hazard and bowel obstruction are downsides to their use ( 42 ). Somatostatin analogs have also been tested in small studies, although this class of drugs are expensive, involve subcutaneous or intramuscular injections, and have gastrointestinal side effects ( 42 ). Enteral tube feedings or bariatric surgery reversal have been reported to improve symptoms when all else fails ( 42 ). Post Bariatric Hypoglycemia Post-bariatric hypoglycemia (PBH) is a rare complication of bariatric surgery that occurs several months to years after procedures that rapidly pass nutrients through the stomach (or stomach remnant) directly to the small intestine and has not been reported with restrictive procedures. It is defined by the presence of postprandial hypoglycemia (plasma glucose concentration < 55 mg/dL) manifesting with neuroglycopenic symptoms such as confusion or loss of consciousness which resolve when glucose levels are normalized (Whipple’s Triad) ( 50 ). PBH is insulin mediated, stimulated by a carbohydrate containing meal, and is distinct from dumping syndrome in that it occurs 1-3 hours after eating without vasomotor symptoms ( 42 ). The reported prevalence of PBH varies widely in the literature depending on the methodology of measurement. In a retrospective nationwide cohort study performed in Sweden, involving >5000 individuals who had undergone bariatric surgery, the rate of
