Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


widely in the literature depending on the methodology of measurement. In a retrospective nationwide cohort study performed in Sweden, involving >5000 individuals who had undergone bariatric surgery, the rate of hypoglycemia (and related symptoms such as dizziness, visual disturbances, syncope and seizures) as ascertained by diagnosis codes was low but significantly higher in patients without diabetes who had undergone RYGB (0.2%) compared to the general reference population (0.04%) ( 51 ). A retrospective cohort study of over 6000 patients who had bariatric surgery at Cleveland Clinic reported a PBH rate of 1.4% ( 52 ). A large cross-sectional database analysis of 145,582 US subjects who underwent RYGB and 29,930 who underwent SG showed that only 0.1% and 0.02% had self-reported hypoglycemia as a postoperative complication ( 53 ). Another US study involving mailed questionnaires to subjects who had experienced severe or medically confirmed hypoglycemia and the one significant correlate of these severe postoperative hypoglycemic episodes was a history of pre-operative hypoglycemic symptoms ( 54 ). The Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric Surgery 2 study was a U.S. multicenter, prospective study of >2400 participants undergoing bariatric surgery followed for 7 years ( 55 ). The rate of symptomatic hypoglycemia at least once during follow up was 39% with 4% reporting continued symptoms over several years, mainly from those who underwent RYGB versus SG or AGB. In this study, higher rates of PBH were seen in people with a history of prediabetes or type 2 diabetes at baseline. A significant risk factor for PBH in this study was the presence of pre-operative hypoglycemia among those with type 2 diabetes. A meta-analysis of studies employing continuous glucose monitoring revealed that the rate of individuals having glucose levels under thresholds ranging from 54-70 mg/dL for some period within 3-7 days was high at approximately 50%. The occurrences of hypoglycemia in these post-surgical individuals happened in the post prandial period as well as overnight ( 56 ). Thus, depending on the method of measurement, the range of PBH reported in the scientific literature varies. The exact pathophysiology of PBH is not entirely understood. In one case series, six individuals with biochemical confirmation of PBH underwent selective arterial calcium stimulation testing followed by partial pancreatectomy ( 57 ). Pathological analysis of pancreatic samples confirmed an insulinoma in one, while five had evidence for beta cell hyperplasia and hypertrophy compared to obese controls who had undergone pancreatectomy for
