Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


). Pathological analysis of pancreatic samples confirmed an insulinoma in one, while five had evidence for beta cell hyperplasia and hypertrophy compared to obese controls who had undergone pancreatectomy for pancreatic cancer. The authors of a subsequent study using the same pathology samples taken from the affected post-RYGB patients but compared to otherwise healthy lean and obese controls found no evidence for post-RYGB islet hypertrophy or “nesidioblastosis” and postulated that hyperinsulinemia may instead be due to hyper functioning of existing beta cells ( 58 ). A commonly proposed mechanism for such beta cell “hyperfunction” is the large increase in GLP-1 response to meals that occurs after gastric bypass ( 59 - 61 ). In two separate studies, individuals with PBH had higher levels of GLP-1 were generated in response to a mixed meal challenge compared to bariatric patients without symptoms ( 59 , 60 ). However, similar symptoms and effects have not been reported with long-term use of GLP-1 agonists used for the management of type 2 diabetes and obesity. Interestingly, despite large increases in GLP-1 secretion, post-prandial glucagon levels are not suppressed in both non-symptomatic patients after RYGB and PBH patients, nor does glucagon treatment readily reverse this condition. An alternative explanation for the cause of post-prandial hyperinsulinemic-hypoglycemia after RYGB is a mismatch between the clearance of glucose and insulin after the meal. Gastric emptying is accelerated after RYGB leading to earlier and higher peaks of both glucose and insulin compared to non-surgical controls. Without a pyloric valve regulating nutrient entry to the small intestine, however, glucose levels also fall quickly. Since insulin clearance occurs at a fixed rate, insulin levels may not be able to fall commensurate with the drop in glucose levels, and without a pyloric valve to provide a more gradual entry of food from the stomach to small intestine, a mismatch may ensue. If suspected, a careful history of symptoms consistent with PBH should be ascertained and other etiologies of hypoglycemia should be ruled out ( e.g., medication-induced hypoglycemia and rarely an insulinoma can be unmasked when insulin resistance improves after surgically induced weight loss). Although there is no standardized test to confirm PBH, a mixed-meal tolerance test with confirmatory serum glucose levels both before and at 30-minute intervals after a mixed meal is commonly used ( 62 ). Alternatively, continuous glucose monitoring performed in the context of an individual’s normal eating pattern has been
