Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


and at 30-minute intervals after a mixed meal is commonly used ( 62 ). Alternatively, continuous glucose monitoring performed in the context of an individual’s normal eating pattern has been demonstrated to be sensitive in detecting PBH ( 63 ). Oral glucose tolerance testing is less useful as individuals who have undergone RYGB commonly experience low glucose levels following an oral glucose load without symptoms of hypoglycemia ( 64 , 65 ). Treatments for PBH ranging from dietary modification to more extreme measures such as gastric bypass reversal have been suggested ( 66 ). Recommended dietary modifications consist of small frequent meals that do not result in large, rapid carbohydrate delivery to the small intestine. These meals should be high in fiber and protein and very low in simple carbohydrates ( 67 ). Successful use of medications such as nifedipine, somatostatin, and diazoxide (all designed to impair insulin secretion by beta cells) and acarbose (designed to reduce glucose availability in the intestine), have been described in case reports and small series ( 68 - 71 ). Newer medications such as GLP-1 analogs (to prevent endogenous incretin release) ( 72 ) and SGLT-2 inhibitors (to reduce blood glucose rises) have been case-reported to work in some individuals ( 73 ). As a last resort, symptoms have been shown to resolve with re-introduction of nutrient flow through the stomach and duodenum either by gastric-tube feedings or reversal of the gastric bypass. Due to future risk of diabetes and frequent symptom recurrence, PBH treatment involving distal pancreatectomy is no longer recommended ( 62 ). Cholelithiasis Rapid weight loss after bariatric surgery promotes gallstone formation by increasing the lithogenicity of bile, with hypersaturation of the bile with cholesterol and with increased mucin production ( 74 , 75 ). Gallbladder hypomotility contributes to this process ( 76 ). Further, additional risk factors for cholelithiasis, including obesity, female sex, and premenopausal status, are already prevalent in the bariatric surgery patient population. Indeed, after RYGB, reported incidence of cholelithiasis ranges from 7% to 53%, with most figures around 30%, substantially higher than in the general population ( 77 ). A study of patients undergoing SG documented a similarly elevated incidence of radiographic cholelithiasis ( 78 ). Ursodeoxycholic acid, commonly known as ursodiol, can successfully reduce risk of postoperative cholelithiasis. In a multicenter RCT of RYGB patients, ursodiol at any of 3 doses decreased risk compared to placebo,
