Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


acid, commonly known as ursodiol, can successfully reduce risk of postoperative cholelithiasis. In a multicenter RCT of RYGB patients, ursodiol at any of 3 doses decreased risk compared to placebo, with 43% of patients in the placebo group forming gallstones on ultrasound by the 6-month postoperative time point, vs. 8% of patients in a 300 mg twice daily group. The efficacy of prophylactic ursodiol after bariatric surgery was subsequently confirmed in a meta-analysis of this and 4 other RCTs ( 79 ), and an RCT demonstrated that ursodiol decreased cholelithiasis incidence 6 months after SG ( 78 ). As a result of these data, oral administration of ursodiol is recommended at 300 mg twice daily after RYGB or BPD/DS and 500 mg once daily after SG ( 24 ), although there is not consensus about dose and duration ( 80 ). There are emerging data in support of a role of probiotics in prevention of cholelithiasis ( 80 ). Cholecystectomy is sometimes performed at the time of bariatric surgery, but in whom it should be performed is controversial and variable between surgeons ( 77 ). Some surgeons perform prophylactic cholecystectomy at the time of surgery; some perform cholecystectomy if preoperative ultrasound reveals gallstones, even if asymptomatic; and some perform concomitant cholecystectomy only if both pathology and symptoms exist. Nephrolithiasis Bariatric surgery increases the risk for new-onset nephrolithiasis. This increased risk is procedure-specific and is proportionate to the degree of procedure-induced malabsorption: greatest after BPD/DS, moderate following RYGB, and risk similar to the nonsurgical population following SG and AGB ( 81 - 83 ). For example, in one retrospective cohort study, the comorbidity-adjusted relative hazard of nephrolithiasis was 4.15 (2.16-8.00) after the most malabsorptive procedures and 2.13 (1.30-3.49) after RYGB; the risk after SG and AGB was similar to that of obese controls ( 82 ). The pathophysiologic mechanisms of kidney stone formation after RYGB and BPD/DS include low urinary volume and low urinary citrate, but the driving mechanism relates to high urinary oxalate in the setting of malabsorption (enteric hyperoxaluria) ( 81 , 84 , 85 ). Normally, dietary calcium binds dietary oxalate, precipitates out as calcium oxalate, and is excreted in the feces. In the setting of malabsorption, non-absorbed fatty acids preferentially bind calcium in the intestine, leaving high concentrations of unbound oxalate that can passively diffuse into the blood, where it is filtered and excreted by the kidneys.
