Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


fatty acids preferentially bind calcium in the intestine, leaving high concentrations of unbound oxalate that can passively diffuse into the blood, where it is filtered and excreted by the kidneys. Under predisposing conditions—such as low urinary volume—urinary oxalate may precipitate with urinary calcium to form kidney stones. Further, colonic permeability to oxalate may increase with exposure to unconjugated bile salts and long chain fatty acids, both of which increase after bariatric surgery. Finally, it is speculated that postoperative alterations in gut microbiota, and particularly in the oxalate-degrading Oxalobacter formigenes, might also contribute to hyperoxaluria ( 81 , 84 , 85 ). Therapeutic strategies to mitigate nephrolithiasis risk after bariatric surgery ( Table 7 ) are similar to those for the general population ( 86 ). Fluid intake to achieve a urine volume of at least 2.5 L/day can be a challenge when a small stomach pouch restricts overall intake and a patient has been counseled to drink fluids between rather than with meals. This highlights the need for the sipping of water throughout the day. A registered dietitian can help a patient achieve a diet low in oxalate-rich foods that also meets the patient’s other dietary needs. Some patients may assume that consumption of calcium will increase kidney stone risk and thus may benefit from teaching that adequate calcium consumption (from diet and calcium citrate supplements) is necessary to limit oxalate absorption and avoid enteric hyperoxaluria. Table 7. Therapeutic Strategies to Decrease Risk of Kidney Stones View in own window Strategy Rationale Hydration to achieve urine volume of ≥ 2.5 L/day Dilute urine Limitation of oxalate-rich foods ( e.g., spinach, nuts, vitamin C) Limit oxalate absorption Low fat diet Limit oxalate absorption Adequate calcium consumption (diet ± calcium citrate supplements) Limit oxalate absorption Low salt and low non-dairy animal protein diet Increase urinary citrate Potassium citrate therapy if urinary citrate low Increase urinary citrate Bone Loss and Fracture Risk Bariatric surgery has a significant impact on bone metabolism. All bariatric procedures induce a high postoperative bone turnover state. For example, after RYGB biochemical markers of bone resorption have been shown to double in the first postoperative year ( 87 - 90 ). Bone mineral density (BMD) assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) decreases ( 87 - 90 ), and while there has been concern about potential unreliability of DXA assessment in the setting of marked weight loss and changing soft
