Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


published to date about fracture after SG ( 110 , 116 ) have been shorter-term because the procedure is newer; longer-term data are needed before conclusions can be drawn. Negative skeletal effects resulting from bariatric surgery appear to be multifactorial ( 90 , 117 - 119 ). Potential mechanisms include the decreased skeletal loading with weight loss; loss of muscle mass; changes in levels of fat-secreted hormones (adipokines), sex steroids, and gut-derived hormones; changes in bone marrow adipose tissue ( 120 ); and, importantly, nutritional factors including vitamin D deficiency, inadequate calcium intake, and calcium malabsorption. Intestinal calcium absorption has been shown to decrease after RYGB even in the setting of optimized vitamin D status ( 99 ), presumably because the bypassed duodenum and proximal jejunum are usually the predominant sites of active, transcellular, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-mediated calcium uptake, and the distal intestine is unable to compensate. In response to calcium malabsorption after RYGB, parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion increases, and the effects of PTH include an increase in bone resorption in order to maintain serum calcium concentration. Meanwhile, bone resorption also increases due to non-PTH-mediated processes like mechanical unloading and changes in the hormonal milieu. This mobilization of calcium from the skeleton may actually dampen the need for greater PTH secretion ( Figure 1 ). A recent study showed that intestinal calcium absorption also decreases after SG, even in the setting of robust vitamin D status, even though it is not a bariatric procedure categorized as malabsorptive ( 121 ). Participants with lower postoperative fractional calcium absorption had greater losses of hip BMD, suggesting that calcium malabsorption may contribute to detrimental skeletal effects not only after RYGB but also after SG. Figure 1. Effects of RYGB on calcium homeostasis. Reprinted from J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol, Schafer AL, Vitamin D and intestinal calcium transport after bariatric surgery, 173:202-210, 2017 ( 122 ), with permission from Elsevier. Strategies that aim to decrease the risk of postoperative skeletal complications have been included in the AACE/TOS/ASMBS Clinical Practice Guidelines ( 24 ) as well as in an additional bone metabolism-focused position statement from the ASMBS ( 123 ). A reasonable approach is described in Table 8 . Preoperatively, testing of 25-hydroxyvitamin D level with treatment of vitamin D deficiency is recommended for patients preparing to undergo any bariatric surgical procedure ( 33 ). DXA scanning should be performed based on age-appropriate recommendations of the
