Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


treatment of vitamin D deficiency is recommended for patients preparing to undergo any bariatric surgical procedure ( 33 ). DXA scanning should be performed based on age-appropriate recommendations of the Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation ( 124 ) or the United States Preventive Services Task Force ( 125 ); other patients with risk factors for osteoporosis or fracture, such as postmenopausal women and older men, may be considered for baseline BMD assessment. Postoperatively, universal supplementation with calcium and vitamin D are necessary after any bariatric surgical procedure, even after procedures without a malabsorptive component; intestinal calcium absorption has been shown to decrease postoperatively not only after RYGB ( 99 ) but also after SG ( 121 ). Even after AGB, restricted food intake and variety poses a risk for micronutrient deficiencies. After RYGB, SG, and AGB, a total calcium intake of 1200-1500 mg/day from diet and supplements (as needed) is recommended. After BPD/DS, a higher calcium intake may be necessary. Supplemental calcium should be provided as chewable calcium citrate in divided doses. An initial postoperative vitamin D supplement of 3000 IU/day is reasonable for most patients regardless of procedure. Postoperative laboratory monitoring should include 25-hydroxyvitamin D, calcium, albumin, phosphorus, and PTH levels. The vitamin D supplement dose can be titrated to achieve and maintain a 25-hydroxyvitamin D level of at least 30 ng/mL. If secondary hyperparathyroidism is present despite an optimized 25-hydroxyvitamin D level, the most likely cause is inadequate calcium intake or absorption; a low 24-hour urinary calcium level would support this. Increased calcium intake would be appropriate, with follow-up laboratory testing to confirm normalization of PTH level. The PTH level should, of course, be interpreted and targeted based on renal function. Professional organizations have differed in their recommendations about postoperative DXA, in light of the absence of evidence about the utility of such screening. A reasonable approach is to consider DXA after 2 years in those at higher risk for osteoporosis or fracture such as postmenopausal women, older men, and those with other risk factors. Table 8. Pre- and Postoperative Skeletal Health Strategies View in own window Preoperative strategies Check 25-hydroxyvitamin D and replete low levels DXA based on age-appropriate screening Consider DXA in higher-risk individuals such as postmenopausal women, older men, and those with risk factors for osteoporosis or fracture Postoperative strategies Supplementation Calcium, as calcium citrate, to achieve total daily calcium intakes: AGB, SG, RYGB: Calcium
