Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


postmenopausal women, older men, and those with risk factors for osteoporosis or fracture Postoperative strategies Supplementation Calcium, as calcium citrate, to achieve total daily calcium intakes: AGB, SG, RYGB: Calcium 1200-1500 mg/day from diet + supplements BPD/DS: Calcium 1800-2400 mg/day from diet + supplements Vitamin D 3000 IU, titrate to ≥30 ng/mL Lab monitoring Calcium, albumin, phosphorus, PTH, 25-hydroxyvitamin D after 3 months, then every 6-12 months 24-hour urinary calcium if additional data is needed ( e.g., elevated PTH) BMD monitoring DXA based on age-appropriate screening; consider after 2 years in others who are at higher risk such as postmenopausal women, older men, and those with osteoporosis risk factors Other strategies which may benefit the skeletal health of the bariatric surgery patient include exercise—particularly weight-bearing and muscle-loading exercise—and higher protein intake, as these mitigate loss of bone mass during non-surgical weight loss in older adults. A randomized controlled trial of a multipronged intervention of exercise, calcium, vitamin D, and protein supplementation was shown to attenuate—although not entirely prevent—postoperative increases in bone turnover markers and declines in BMD after RYGB and sleeve gastrectomy ( 104 ). For those who have had bariatric surgery and are found to be at high risk of fracture, there are very few data to guide the use of antiosteoporosis medications. Antiresorptive agents such as bisphosphonates and denosumab should only be considered after appropriate therapy for calcium and vitamin D insufficiency and confirmation that adequate calcium and vitamin D status are maintained. Otherwise, there is a meaningful risk of medication-induced hypocalcemia ( 126 ). If pharmacotherapy is prescribed, a parenterally administered agent is recommended due to concerns about adequate gastrointestinal absorption and potential anastomotic ulceration with orally administered bisphosphonates. Research is needed to guide the use of these medications—either for prevention of bone loss or for treatment of osteoporosis—in the postoperative bariatric surgery population. WEIGHT REGAIN AFTER BARIATRIC SURGERY Given that obesity is a chronic disease and sustained weight loss requires ongoing management, understanding the durability of weight loss after bariatric surgery is of critical importance. Unfortunately, published studies reporting weight loss after bariatric surgery thus far tend to be short-term (many with < 5 years follow-up), and longer studies often lack high retention rates and/or adequate control groups ( 127 , 128 ). Additionally, the literature on long-term weight loss mostly addresses AGB and RYGB, and the literature on SG is still emerging. Furthermore, methods of
