Medical Management of the Post Operative Bariatric Surgery Patient
KEYWORDS: surgery, pubmed, weight, bariatric, bariatric surgery, loss, rygb, weight loss, calcium, patients, gastric, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed


and SG or why some individuals achieve 50% weight loss (or more) and others regain all their lost weight remains unknown at present, it is possible traditional influencers of body weight are playing a role, including genetics ( 141 , 142 ) and the postoperative use of medications that promote weight gain ( 143 ). Interventions to stabilize or restore weight loss that have compared lifestyle or psychological support to usual care after surgery have shown (with some exceptions) to be minimally effective, but the studies conducted thus far have been relatively small ( 139 ). Several observational studies suggest that medical (drug) weight loss therapy may be a promising modality to aid in weight loss after bariatric surgery. The largest published study to date on the use of pharmacologic agents to reverse weight regain or weight loss plateau came from 319 patients who underwent RYGB (n=258) or SG (n=61) at 2 academic centers and had been prescribed one or more weight loss medications ( 144 ) with at least 1 year of follow-up ( 145 ). The medications included FDA-approved weight-loss drugs ( e.g., phentermine, liraglutide, orlistat) and off-label use of medications with potential weight-lowering effects ( e.g., topiramate monotherapy, metformin, pramlinitide, and canagliflozin). The medications were more often started for weight regain (78.5%) than weight loss plateau (21.5%), and the mean start time of a medication was earlier after SG (mean of 23.2 months) than RYGB (mean of 59.3 months). Overall, 54% of patients lost at least 5% of weight, 30% lost at least 10%, and 15% lost more than 15%. Topiramate use was associated with the highest success, with a 1.9 odds ratio of achieving at least 10% weight loss. Other small observational studies have shown efficacy of topiramate, liraglutide, phentermine, and phentermine/topiramate combination for post bariatric surgery weight loss ( 146 - 150 ). There have been several trials supporting the efficacy of GLP-1 analogs liraglutide and semaglutide to treat postoperative weight regain ( 151 , 152 ). While historically weight loss variability or regain after weight-loss surgery has been attributed to “poor habits” or “failure” on the patient’s part to adhere to recommended food intake, it is now recognized that such variability is similar to other chronic diseases where some individuals respond well to certain therapies while others do not or in which progression of the underlying disease state necessitates combination therapies (such as in
