ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


What are Clinical Practice Guidelines and what is this document? Clinical Practice Guidelines provide recommendations on how to diagnose and treat patients based on medical and scientific evidence. They are mainly intended for healthcare professionals to ensure that patients receive appropriate care. The 2024 European Society of Cardiology (ESC) Guidelines for the management of atrial fibrillation (AF) were written by a team of healthcare professionals and scientists, supported by two patient representatives. This document is for patients, their families and caregivers. It provides a summary of the key parts of the guidelines. It has been developed so that you can take an active part in the care you receive for your AF and understand why you are receiving a range of different treatments. It does not cover every aspect of AF. If you would like more detailed information, then please see the main published guideline or ask your healthcare team. How will this document help me? This guideline places patients at the centre of care and encourages shared decision-making between healthcare professionals and patients. This document is intended to answer some questions that you may have and support you in conversations with your medical team. For example, we hope it will give you knowledge and confidence when discussing different treatment options and when to seek review or advice. Contributing to your own health care and managing risk factors is key to avoiding complications that may arise from AF. If you are a healthcare professional, we recommend that you give this document to your patients and their caregivers, and share it with your colleagues. We hope this document will provide a way for patients to contribute to the care they receive. This could improve their response to treatment and help them to lead healthier, better lives. What is AF and how can it affect me? AF is a disorder of the heart rhythm where abnormal electrical signals in the top chambers of the heart (the atria) lead to an irregular and uneven heartbeat. Patients with AF have an irregular heart rhythm AF is a common condition, but the effect it has on individual patients can vary widely. Some will have very few symptoms, whilst in others, AF can be disabling. Common symptoms related to AF Dizzyness Disturbed Palpitations sleep Chest pain Worries Fatigue and Breathlessness less active AF can lead to several health problems, some of which are serious. For example,
