ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


symptoms related to AF Dizzyness Disturbed Palpitations sleep Chest pain Worries Fatigue and Breathlessness less active AF can lead to several health problems, some of which are serious. For example, blood clots that develop in patients with AF may cause a stroke if they travel to the brain, or can impact on other body organs. In the longer term, patients can develop heart failure which causes breathlessness, as the heart cannot pump enough blood to cope with daily activity. AF is also associated with a higher risk of dying, being admitted to hospital for any reason and developing certain types of dementia. If you would like more information on AF, what it is and the impact it has on patients, then visit the AFIB MATTERS website: afibmatters.org Learning to live with AF It is important to remember that with treatment, you may live a normal life and continue to enjoy a full range of activities despite having AF. However, once diagnosed with AF, it’s essential to acknowledge that you may need to adjust your lifestyle. As you have a chronic disease, you may need to adapt both mentally and physically and learn how to live with AF. A psychological reaction can come weeks or months after the diagnosis, including sadness, anxiety, restlessness or depression. This is not unusual and it is important for you to be open about your thoughts and feelings. You may also need to make changes in your home or working conditions. It can be helpful to discuss questions and doubts with your family and healthcare team. Changing your lifestyle is a great way for you to be in control of chronic diseases such as AF. There is an added benefit that these measures can make AF less likely to come back, improve the success of your treatments, and contribute to a long and healthy life. For example, you could: • Keep fit with regular physical activity – a brisk walk half an hour each day and more intense exercise 2–3 times per week if you are able • Keep your weight balanced and eat healthily. If you are overweight, you are recommended to lose weight with a healthy diet in combination with regular exercise. • Know your cholesterol levels and get treatment if needed • Limit your alcohol consumption • Avoid smoking and recreational drugs, which can increase the risk of AF, stroke or blood clots
