ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


over time to better prevent complications Investigations, such as Ongoing follow-up Regular re-assessment Support and advice for electrical heart tracing by healthcare staff in of your risk factors for when to seek attention (ECG), blood tests and a the hospital or with stroke or blood clots, and and to help you live heart ultrasound scan your community team to prevent bleeding your life with AF Key messages for the management of AF The following are key messages from the ESC Guidelines, which can help to improve the care you receive for your AF. Below, we explain these in simple terms, along with examples of how you can contribute to improving your own well-being. AF-CARE To ensure that all patients with AF receive care that is centred around their individual needs, the ESC Guidelines recommend the use of the AF-CARE approach. This stands for: • Comorbidity and risk factor management Address other health conditions that cause and worsen AF, or affect the success of treatments • Avoid stroke and blood clots Lower the chance of blood clots related to AF, using blood thinners for those at risk • Reduce symptoms by rate and rhythm control Specific treatments to help manage AF, or switch to a normal heart rhythm • Evaluation and dynamic reassessment Care that adapts to how your AF can change over time to better prevent complications Shared care You should expect to be involved in the decisions made, including what treatments you receive. This should involve a broad range of healthcare staff including nurses, pharmacists and specialist doctors, led by your general practitioner or cardiologist. Equal care You should also receive the best care regardless of your gender, race, culture, sexuality, social factors or any disability. Education You should receive information and education about AF, the treatments you may receive, and the possible benefits and side effects. This aims to help you make informed decisions about your care. As well as information and leaflets provided by your healthcare team, you can also access afibmatters.org. Diagnosis A diagnosis of AF may be suspected from your symptoms or when your pulse is felt to be irregular. The diagnosis is confirmed by reviewing an electrical tracing of your heart (electrocardiogram or ECG). If your AF is intermittent (comes and goes), the ECG recording may need to be done over a day or more. It can also be captured by implanted recorders and
