ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


If your AF is intermittent (comes and goes), the ECG recording may need to be done over a day or more. It can also be captured by implanted recorders and pacemakers. Digital devices, such as smart watches, fitness trackers and blood pressure meters are a new way to identify AF, although an electrical tracing may still be needed to confirm AF before you receive treatment. Initial evaluation At the initial consultation, your healthcare team will review your history and confirm the diagnosis of AF. They will assess you for any risk factors that contribute to your AF, that affect your risk of developing blood clots, or have an impact on your treatments. Investigations for AF will vary according to each individual, but will usually include: • An ECG (heart tracing) over 10 seconds, or longer if needed • Blood tests to check for kidney and liver problems, diabetes, abnormal blood salts, low blood count and the function of your thyroid gland • Images of the heart where this will impact your treatment – most commonly an ultrasound of the heart (echocardiogram) is used to look at how the heart is pumping • More detailed imaging of the heart may be required for certain patients Electrocardiogram (ECG) Blood tests can check Echocardiogram (echo) Scanners checks the electrical for other health conditions is an ultrasound of the may be used if detailed activity of the heart heart that shows how well images of the heart are it is working needed Other health conditions and risk factors These are aspects of your lifestyle and medical history that can be addressed to improve your response to treatments. Managing these factors can also help to prevent future AF, lower the chance of heart attacks and strokes, and improve your overall well-being. These things can help: Lower blood pressure Patients with AF should have tightly controlled blood pressure, with a target of less than 130/80 mmHg for most people. Unfortunately, this is often not achieved, which is partly why strokes, heart attacks, heart failure and dementia are so common in those with AF. Your healthcare team may need to start or increase medication if blood pressure remains high. Exercise Most people with AF do not get enough exercise. Patients may be afraid to exercise and think this makes the condition worse, however, taking part in regular exercise is good for nearly all people with AF. You
