ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


enough exercise. Patients may be afraid to exercise and think this makes the condition worse, however, taking part in regular exercise is good for nearly all people with AF. You should gradually build up your exercise and discuss with your healthcare team what types of exercise are appropriate for you to create your own exercise programme. Weight loss If you are overweight then it is worthwhile enrolling in a weight loss programme. You should aim to lose 10% of your body weight. You can receive guidance on this from your healthcare professional. Reduce alcohol Even relatively small amounts of alcohol can increase the risk of AF returning. You should reduce your alcohol intake to 3 or less standard drinks per week. Binge drinking is a major risk factor for AF and should be avoided. Control diabetes Having good control of your blood sugars is important for your AF treatment. Sticking to low-sugar foods can help if you are diabetic or have pre-diabetes. Many patients will need medications to help control their diabetes and finger-prick tests or newer devices can help you keep blood sugar well controlled. Your risk of blood clots Blood clots can form in the chambers of the heart, dislodge and pass into the circulation causing a blockage to the blood supply. AF is a leading factor in the development of blood clots in the heart and elsewhere. One of the best-known consequences of this is when a blood clot goes to the brain causing a stroke. AF accounts for about a fifth of all known strokes, but also contributes to damage to the brain over time that can lead to dementia. Identifying a stroke can sometimes be difficult if the symptoms are subtle, but ‘FAST’ is an easy way to remember the signs of a stroke: ‘F’ Face – can the person smile?; ‘A’ Arms – can the person lift both arms?; ‘S’ Speech – can the person speak normally? ‘T’ Time to act – if the answer to any of the questions is no, quick action is needed. Your risk of a stroke will vary according to the number of risk factors you have. A member of the healthcare team will ask you about these to decide whether you should receive blood thinners (anticoagulants). If blood thinners are not required, then your risk should be reassessed regularly to see if this decision should change. Common risk
