ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


decide whether you should receive blood thinners (anticoagulants). If blood thinners are not required, then your risk should be reassessed regularly to see if this decision should change. Common risk factors for stroke in AF Age is a major risk factor for developing blood clots in AF. Age categories are used to make decisions on treatment, but in reality, the older you are, the more risk there is. Blood thinners are usually prescribed to patients with AF aged 65 years or older if they have other risk factors, or anyone aged 75 years or older. Your risk of having a stroke is much higher if you have already had a stroke, TIA (a temporary episode with stroke-like symptoms) or a blood clot in other organs or blood vessels. High blood pressure stresses the heart and blood vessels, and makes it easier for blood clots to form. This is more likely if your blood pressure is 140 or more for the top value (systolic) or 90 or above for the bottom value (diastolic). If you have heart failure, your heart may not pump blood effectively, which means it cannot deliver enough oxygen and nutrients to the body. When the heart is not working properly, blood is more likely to pool. This increases the risk of forming blood clots. If you have diabetes and your blood sugar levels are higher than normal, this extra sugar can damage the inner lining of your blood vessels. This damage makes blood vessels less flexible and more likely to get clogged. Diabetes is regarded as a risk factor even when treated with medications. If you have a disease of the blood vessels where blood cannot flow normally because the vessels are blocked, narrowed or damaged, this increases your risk of a blood clot. This applies to blood vessels supplying your heart, brain, kidneys, legs and elsewhere in your body. Blood thinners (anticoagulants) Blood thinners, also called anticoagulants, are medications that are prescribed to reduce the ability of the blood to clot. They are highly effective in preventing strokes in patients with AF and are recommended for all patients who have risk factors for developing blood clots. Choice of blood thinner Most patients with AF should receive a direct oral anticoagulant (or DOAC), which includes the drugs, apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban or rivaroxaban. The specific choice will often depend on local factors. DOACs require only occasional blood tests
