ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


a direct oral anticoagulant (or DOAC), which includes the drugs, apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban or rivaroxaban. The specific choice will often depend on local factors. DOACs require only occasional blood tests for kidney and liver function (around every 6 months). Drugs like warfarin, phenprocoumon, acenocoumarol and fluindione may be prescribed to certain patients, such as those with mechanical heart valves, severe forms of mitral valve disease, severe kidney disease and in pregnancy. These drugs require frequent blood tests (the international normalised ratio or INR) to make sure the correct dose is being received. Your healthcare team may suggest you switch from warfarin to the newer DOAC tablets for a number of reasons: • Your choice, to benefit from a lower risk of bleeding • To avoid interactions with foods and other drugs that are more common with warfarin • When there is difficulty keeping to your INR target • If you have a high risk of bleeding in the brain or suffer any major bleeding event Dose of blood thinner If you are prescribed a DOAC to help prevent a stroke or blood clot, it should be taken at the standard dose to make sure you benefit from the treatment. Some blood thinners need to be taken twice a day. Standard doses: • Apixaban: 5 mg twice a day • Dabigatran: 150 mg twice a day • Edoxaban: 60 mg once a day • Rivaroxaban: 20 mg once a day Your pharmacist or medical practitioner will advise you to take a lower dose only under certain circumstances (such as poor kidney function). If these change (for example, your kidney function improves), then your doctor will resume the standard dose. If you are prescribed warfarin or a similar drug, your dose depends on your INR blood test. For most patients, this value should be between 2 and 3 for at least 70% of the time. Your risk of bleeding on blood thinners When prescribing blood thinners, the pharmacist or medical practitioner should address any factors that will increase your risk of bleeding. This includes control of high blood pressure, advice to reduce your alcohol intake and avoiding other drugs that can cause bleeding. It is rare that the risk of bleeding is sufficiently great to outweigh the benefits of blood thinners. You should be actively involved in these decisions and be informed of the risks and benefits. You will need to be
