ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


sufficiently great to outweigh the benefits of blood thinners. You should be actively involved in these decisions and be informed of the risks and benefits. You will need to be aware of medications and over-the-counter drugs that can increase your risk of bleeding and discuss these with your pharmacist or healthcare team. Combining different heart tablets A common group of tablets called antiplatelets (for example, aspirin and clopidogrel) are often used to prevent or treat heart attacks. Immediately after a heart attack or procedure on your blood vessels, you may need to take these drugs in addition to a blood thinner. The time you are on combined treatment will be kept as short as possible to avoid any problems with bleeding. After 12 months, most patients will receive the blood thinner alone and stop their aspirin or clopidogrel. Controlling your heart rate Your heart rate can be fast and irregular in AF and you will likely need medicines to lower your heart rate. The common drugs used are beta-blockers or digoxin, which can be used in patients with or without heart failure. Diltiazem and verapamil are also very effective but cannot be used where the heart pump function is reduced. Some patients also have low heart rates with AF and will need to be monitored or have a pacemaker fitted. Restoring normal heart rhythm This should be considered in all suitable patients, and your medical practitioner will discuss which methods are best for you as part of the joint decision-making process. The aim of treatment is to restore normal (sinus) rhythm and maintain this in the long-term. There are different approaches available, such as: • Electrical cardioversion (electric impulse to the heart whilst you are made sleepy) • Medications, either immediate or taken long-term • Catheter ablation, a procedure to prevent electrical impulses that cause AF from reaching the heart • Endoscopic ablation, similar to catheter ablation but using key-hole surgery • Open surgery, usually for patients who are already undergoing surgery on their heart The sections that follow go into these approaches in more detail. Keeping you safe when restoring normal heart rhythm While restoring a normal heart rhythm may seem urgent, it can make very good sense to delay if you are not on blood thinners (used for at least 3 weeks before a procedure). In addition, medication to restore the heart rhythm can have side effects which
