ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


delay if you are not on blood thinners (used for at least 3 weeks before a procedure). In addition, medication to restore the heart rhythm can have side effects which will need to be taken into account to improve your safety. Cardioversion If you are acutely unwell, then you may need the electrical approach which is quick and safe. This involves an electrical impulse applied to the heart through the chest wall. It is usually performed with medications to make you feel sleepy (sedatives) and the expected recovery time is rapid. Otherwise, the choice of an electrical or medicine approach will be discussed with you, taking into account a range of factors specific to you and your local centre. Reasons for using long-term rhythm control The main goal of treatment should be to reduce your symptoms from AF and to improve your quality of life. In some patients, there may also be a role for preferring normal heart rhythm in the long-term to prevent bad outcomes and increase a healthy lifespan. Successful or not AF may return despite attempts to control it and episodes of AF can occur without any symptoms. There may also be changes in your heart that give you a higher chance of blood clots regardless of AF. For these reasons, it is essential that you continue your blood thinner in the long-term if you have risk factors for stroke. This is the case even if your treatment is initially successful and you are back in a normal heart rhythm. Catheter ablation This procedure uses fine instruments that are passed through blood vessels to get into the heart and interrupt the electrical circuits which are responsible for AF. Some hospitals use a general anaesthetic and others use sedation only, so your length of stay in the hospital will vary. There are complications that can be associated with the procedure and these will be discussed by your cardiologist. The success rate is dependent on a number of factors. Broadly speaking it is more effective for patients with recent or intermittent AF and these groups of patients can be referred for catheter ablation as the first rhythm treatment. For other patients, catheter ablation is recommended if you have already tried drugs to control AF, but they are no longer working, or you have developed side effects. Endoscopic ablation These procedures require access to the heart from the outside, using
