ESC Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation:
KEYWORDS: blood, heart, risk, patients, thinners, factors, healthcare, blood thinners, blood clots, stroke, rhythm, need, clots, receive, treatment


tried drugs to control AF, but they are no longer working, or you have developed side effects. Endoscopic ablation These procedures require access to the heart from the outside, using small incisions in the chest wall. They need an experienced surgeon, so are not available in every centre that treats patients with AF. They are effective at creating a barrier to the electrical activity that causes AF and can also be combined with catheter ablation. These approaches are recommended if catheter ablation has not been successful or in patients with persisting AF which has not responded to drug therapy. During the procedure, the surgeon will also block off an area of the heart where blood clots often form, although you will still need to take your blood thinners if you have any risk factors for stroke. AF and heart surgery If you are undergoing open-heart surgery for another reason, your surgeon may be able to perform AF ablation at the same time. This is recommended only in hospitals that have an experienced team of surgeons. During the procedure, the surgeon will also block off an area of the heart where blood clots often form, although you will still need to take your blood thinners if you have any risk factors for stroke. Re-evaluating your situation The way care is organised is different in every country and region. However, you should expect to receive follow-up by medical professionals, most often led by either a cardiologist or general practitioner. They might ask for advice or refer you for specific treatment (for example to a surgeon or stroke doctor). This follow-up can also be combined with advice or referral to other professionals, such as nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists or dietitians. Some healthcare providers also have special clinics for patients with AF. If you have been stable, and your symptoms are well controlled, you may be discharged from follow-up by the hospital. Your risk factors and need for blood thinners should continue to be under regular review by your community physician. If you are troubled by your AF, then you should seek attention so that your treatment plan can be changed. If you suffer a black-out or are worried by chest pain, then seek emergency advice.
