Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


ABSTRACT Fungi are ubiquitous microbes and form a fraction of the symbiotic human microbiome. Transition from normal commensals to opportunistic mycoses can occur in immunocompromised hosts. Endemic mycoses are caused by fungi that are acquired from environmental sources. Fungal infections can be classified based on the depth of tissue invasion. Superficial diseases are limited to skin, nails, and mucous membrane while systemic dissemination can affect multiple organs including endocrine glands. Fungal involvement of the adrenals, pituitary, thyroid, pancreas, and gonads is well recognized. On the other hand, individual with diabetes mellitus and Cushing’s syndrome are susceptible to fungal disease as a result of immune dysfunction. Mucormycosis, candidiasis, and dermatophytosis occur more commonly in diabetes. Exogenous as well as endogenous Cushing’s syndrome is another endocrine disorder that predisposes to systemic fungal diseases. High index of suspicion is necessary to recognise these infections as clinical manifestations can be masked due to the anti-inflammatory properties of glucocorticoids. Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type I (APS-1) is a unique genetic disease where autoimmune damage predisposes to chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis (CMC) and a multitude of endocrine anomalies. Antifungal agents like azoles and polyenes can adversely affect the normal functioning of various endocrine pathways. Errors in diagnosis and treatment of the fungal infections of the endocrine glands can be critical. Equally important is to identify the various fungal diseases occurring in diabetes and other endocrine disorders. Conditions that predispose to fungal diseases such as diabetes and immunosuppressed states in organ-transplant recipients are becoming increasingly prevalent. Understanding of the critical interplay between the endocrine system and fungal pathogens are imperative for optimal patient outcomes in modern medicine. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Fungi are classified as a separate kingdom that consists of single-celled or complex multicellular organisms. They are heterotrophs and unlike autotrophic plants, fungi lack chlorophyll and cannot synthesize their own food. They acquire nutrients from the surrounding media by osmosis. Fungi are ubiquitous, transient, or persistent human colonizers which form the fungal microbiota or mycobiome. The human microbiota consists of a diverse array of microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi, protozoa, and parasites that reside in and around the human body. Fungi comprise ≤0.1% of the total human microbiota, but it still plays a crucial role in human health and disease ( 1 ). Fungal species have complex interactions with the human host, which
