Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


of the total human microbiota, but it still plays a crucial role in human health and disease ( 1 ). Fungal species have complex interactions with the human host, which can be viewed as a spectrum of symbiotic relationships. The association can be mutualistic where it is advantageous to both, or commensal where only one profits but the other is unharmed. On the other hand, the connection can be parasitic where the fungi are benefitted with a damaging effect on the human host, or amensalistic where one organism is harmed but the other remains unaffected. These human fungal symbionts can transition from commensalism to parasitism within the body. Immune dysfunction is one of the common factors that influence this conversion. Endocrine diseases like diabetes mellitus, Cushing’s syndrome, and autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 1 (APS1) are prone to fungal infections due to immune dysfunction. The prevalence of superficial fungal infection is 20-25% ( 2 ). On the other hand, fungal infections tend to spread in individuals with low immunity such as patients with cancer or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and recipients of immunosuppressive drugs. The reported incidence of invasive fungal disease is 5.9 cases per thousand per year ( 3 ). The dissemination may affect various endocrine glands leading to their dysfunction, the adrenal gland being the one most commonly involved. Endocrine system involvement in fungal infections would extend to the adverse effect of various antifungal therapy too. Azoles are the most frequently described class affecting the endocrine system and, adrenal glands and gonads are their primary targets. The diverse aspects of this complex relationship between fungi and the endocrine system are described in this chapter. TYPES OF FUNGAL INFECTION Fungal infections have been classified based on both anatomic location and epidemiology. They can also be classified on the basis of morphological structure of the fungus. Anatomical Categories MUCOCUTANEOUS INFECTIONS Mucocutaneous infections is a heterogeneous group characterized by infections of the skin, mucous membranes, and the nails. These infections are confined to the cutaneous surface, with little propensity for systemic dissemination. The effect can vary from mild to severe depending on the extent of involvement but are rarely fatal. DEEP ORGAN INFECTIONS Fungal infections can sometimes cause deep tissue involvement and have the potential for hematogenous and systemic spread. Dissemination of fungal infections is usually observed in immunocompromised conditions. If untreated, deep organ or systemic fungal affection can be fatal. Epidemiological
