Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


are more prevalent in the immunocompromised state ( table 2 ). There is a tendency for fungal infections to disseminate in such cases and affect endocrine organs like the pituitary, thyroid, parathyroid, pancreas, adrenal glands, and gonads. The involvement of these endocrine glands may lead to deficient hormone secretion. The clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and management of fungal infection of the major endocrine glands are discussed below. Table 2. Conditions Predisposing to Systemic Fungal Infections View in own window Endocrine diseases Diabetes mellitus Cushing’s syndrome Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome-1 STAT5b deficiency (Congenital Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 Deficiency) Immunosuppressed states Cancer Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome Acute leukemia Hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients Solid-organ transplant recipients Recipients of immunosuppressive drugs in conditions like connective tissue diseases Pituitary Fungal Infections ETIOLOGY Pituitary infections or abscesses are rare and account for less than 1% of pituitary lesions ( 4 ). Even among them, fungal infections are extremely unusual and occur predominantly in immunocompromised states. The mode of spread could be hematogenous, extension from adjacent structures like meninges, sphenoid sinus, cavernous sinus, and skull base, or iatrogenic during transsphenoidal procedures. Fungal infection of the pituitary can occur in the presence of underlying lesions like pituitary adenoma, Rathke’s cleft cyst, etc. Cushing’s syndrome, resulting from an adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) secreting pituitary adenoma, itself causes immunosuppression and further predisposes to fungal disease ( 5 ). Aspergillus is the most frequently reported fungal infection of the pituitary ( 6 – 8 ). Other fungi described to infect the pituitary include candida ( 9 , 10 ), Pneumocystis jirovecii (in HIV/AIDS) ( 11 , 12 ), and coccidia ( 13 ). In a review of 13 cases of pituitary aspergillus infection, five were immunosuppressed ( 14 ). CLINICAL FEATURES The clinical presentation of fungal infection of the pituitary can be variable ( table 3 ). Symptoms from mass effects such as headache, visual disturbances (due to optic chiasma compression), and ophthalmoplegia are the usual presenting features. Features suggestive of infection, such as fever, leukocytosis, and meningismus were absent in most of the reported cases ( 8 , 15 , 16 ). Aspergillus is known to cause angioinvasion and vasculitis, and thus can be additionally associated with features arising from cerebrovascular infarcts ( 8 , 14 ). Pituitary insufficiency can acutely manifest as hypotension and shock primarily from secondary hypoadrenalism ( 9 ). Gonadotrophin and other hormone secretion can be affected as a delayed
