Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


nonspecific isointensity or hypointensity ( 4 ). Pituitary abscess of any etiology including fungal may demonstrate peripheral rim enhancement and calcifications on T2-weighted images. Low signals due to iron deposition are however indicative of fungal involvement ( 19 ). Involvement of the adjacent sinuses is another pointer for fungal disease ( 15 , 16 ). It is difficult to distinguish fungal pituitary infections from intrasellar bacterial infections and tumors, and the diagnosis is often confirmed during surgery or autopsy. Histopathological examination can reveal hyphae and fungal spores. Silver impregnation stains such as Grocott or Gomori methenamine silver, fungal culture, or fungal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can confirm the diagnosis ( 4 ). Serum 1,3-β-D-glucan is positive in a broad range of invasive fungal infections, including candida ( 19 ). Serum galactomannan is however, a specific marker for invasive aspergillosis ( 20 ). TREATMENT Treatment includes antifungal therapy and drainage of the abscess by transsphenoidal endoscopic approach ( 14 ). Craniotomy is discouraged due to fear of intracranial dissemination. Deficiency of pituitary hormones may necessitate replacement ( 9 ). Voriconazole is the preferred therapeutic agent for aspergillus infection. Other medical options are liposomal amphotericin B, posaconazole, isavuconazole, and echinocandins ( 21 ). The recommended dose of voriconazole for central nervous system (CNS) aspergillosis is intravenous loading with 6 mg/kg every 12 hour for two doses followed by 4 mg /kg every 12 hour. The oral loading dose is 400 mg every 12 hour for two doses, followed by 200 mg twice daily ( 22 ). Oral treatment may be required for months. The exact duration of therapy is not established and depends on the clinical parameters. Antifungal therapy for other varieties of fungus should be administered as per standard practice. Mortality rates are high in disseminated disease with vascular invasion, immunosuppressed state, and in cases of a delayed diagnosis ( 14 ). Thyroid Disorders ETIOLOGY Infections of the thyroid are rare as its rich blood supply, iodine content, and capsule are protective against microbial invasion ( 23 ). Fungi form a small subset among the microbial pathogens infecting the thyroid. A. fumigatus is the predominant fungi in general, whereas P. jirovecii is the most common cause of fungal thyroiditis in patients with AIDS ( 24 , 25 ). Table 4 enumerates the fungal infections reported to infect the thyroid. These infections are primarily seen in immunocompromised patients and usually is a
