Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


with AIDS ( 24 , 25 ). Table 4 enumerates the fungal infections reported to infect the thyroid. These infections are primarily seen in immunocompromised patients and usually is a part of disseminated infection. Both hematogenous and lymphatic spread can occur. Direct invasion of the thyroid by fungal infection is also reported. Mycotoxin secreted by the fungus may affect thyroid function, however the evidence in humans is not definitive ( 26 ). Table 4. Predisposing Conditions Where Fungus Affects the Thyroid Gland View in own window Type of fungus Predisposing condition Aspergillus Organ transplant ( 27 , 28 ), AML ( 29 ), ALL ( 30 ), MDS ( 31 ), NHL ( 32 ), SLE ( 24 , 33 ), cryoglobulinemic vasculitis ( 34 ), AIDS, normal immune status with MNG ( 35 ) Pneumocystis AIDS ( 25 ), Thymic alymphoplasia ( 36 ) Candida ALL ( 37 ), AML ( 38 ) Coccidiodes SLE on corticosteroids ( 39 ), sarcoidosis on corticosteroids, PAN on corticosteroids ( 40 ) Histoplasmosis NHL ( 41 ) AML – acute myeloid leukemia, ALL – acute lymphoblastic leukemia, MDS – myelodysplastic syndrome, NHL- Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, SLE- systemic lupus erythematosus, AIDS – acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, MNG – multinodular goiter, PAN – polyarteritis nodosa CLINICAL FEATURES Fungal infection of the thyroid usually occurs in presence of underlying critical illness. The symptoms of thyroid infection can get masked by the primary disease. Thyroid involvement can be often detected post-mortem in cases of disseminated fungal disease ( 42 ). Common clinical presentations include pain, swelling of the thyroid gland, and fever, often mimicking subacute thyroiditis. In severe cases, thyroid enlargement may cause dysphagia and respiratory distress due to esophageal and tracheal obstruction, respectively ( 25 , 42 , 43 ). Fungal thyroiditis typically follows the course of a brief phase of thyrotoxicosis followed by hypothyroidism. Recovery of thyroid function generally takes place in weeks to months. Sick euthyroid syndrome, which sometimes occurs in disseminated fungal infections, may confound thyroid function testing. The clinical presentation of different varieties of fungal infections is similar. Aspergillus A review of 28 cases of aspergillus thyroiditis by Tan et al . revealed that 12 (43%) patients had a primary thyroid infection. The rest had aspergillus infection elsewhere (usually lungs and airways). Fever, dyspnea, and neck swelling were the usual presentation. Dysphagia and airway obstruction resulted from mass effect and was fatal in
