Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


rest had aspergillus infection elsewhere (usually lungs and airways). Fever, dyspnea, and neck swelling were the usual presentation. Dysphagia and airway obstruction resulted from mass effect and was fatal in two cases. The overall mortality rate was high (64%) ( 24 ). Pneumocystis Zavascki et al . described 15 cases of P. jirovecii thyroiditis. Most of the cases were reported in individuals with AIDS. It should be suspected if neck pain and swelling occur in presence of a CD4 count < 200/µL. Compressive symptoms such as odynophagia, dysphagia, dysarthria, and hoarseness have been reported. Extra-thyroid disease was present in 53% (8/15) of cases and documented usually on post-mortem studies. Most of the cases were euthyroid, three were hypothyroid, and one developed transient thyrotoxicosis ( 25 ). Others There are reports of infection of the thyroid with candida, histoplasma, coccidiodes, and, paracoccidiodes in immunocompromised hosts ( 37 – 41 ). The different varieties of fungal thyroiditis are clinically indistinguishable from each other. DIAGNOSIS Thyroid infection should be suspected in immunocompromised hosts who present with swelling and pain in the region of the thyroid gland. The thyroid involvement not uncommonly remains asymptomatic and gets detected post-mortem ( 42 ). Imaging of the neck by ultrasonography can be useful to define the morphology of the lesion. Computed tomography of the chest additionally identifies fungal lesions in the lungs, the usual site of primary or secondary infection. Fungal staining and culture of the lesion obtained by fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the thyroid gland can confirm the diagnosis. Results of thyroid function testing can be normal or may reveal thyrotoxicosis or hypothyroidism. TREATMENT Antifungal therapy is the mainstay of treatment. Voriconazole is the first line agent for invasive aspergillus infection. Adding echinocandin (capsofungin or antidulafungin) along with voriconazole may provide marginally better outcomes in patients who are immunocompromised ( 44 , 45 ). Cotrimoxazole is the preferred therapy for pneumocystis infection. The choice of antifungal therapy depends on the type of fungus and the prevalent pattern of antifungal resistance. Surgical debridement may be required especially if there is a possibility of tracheal compression due to mass effect. Symptomatic treatment may be required in the thyrotoxic phase resulting from acute damage to the gland. The thyroid gland fails to recover in a minority of patients. They should be treated with thyroid hormone replacement. Outcome of fungal thyroiditis has improved over the last two decades with
