Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


thyroid gland fails to recover in a minority of patients. They should be treated with thyroid hormone replacement. Outcome of fungal thyroiditis has improved over the last two decades with advances in antifungal therapy ( 43 ). Disorders of Calcium Metabolism Fungal infections can alter calcium and vitamin D metabolism. The common metabolic bone disorders are described in the following section. MONOCYTE 1Α HYDROXYLASE MEDIATED HYPERCALCEMIA Etiology and Pathogenesis Conversion to the active 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH) 2 D] from 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] occurs primarily in the kidney. The renal enzyme 25(OH)D-1α hydroxylase (CYP27B1) responsible for the conversion, is tightly regulated by parathyroid hormone (PTH), fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF-23), and the serum 1,25(OH) 2 D concentration. The activated mononuclear cells and macrophages also exhibit 25(OH)D-1α-hydroxylase activity. The 1,25(OH) 2 D synthesized in these cells normally exert a paracrine effect on growth and differentiation of cells. In granulomatous disorders, such as sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, and fungal infections, the 1,25(OH) 2 D production in monocytes is dysregulated resulting in hypercalcemia. The monocyte 25(OH)D-1α-hydroxylase is resistant to the regulatory mechanisms and the lack of calcium-mediated negative feedback predisposes to hypercalcemia ( 46 ). PTH-independent hypercalcemia is described in chronic fungal infections, such as histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, para-coccidioidomycosis, candidiasis, cryptococcosis, and pneumocystis. Clinical Profile The fungal infections associated with 1α-hydroxylase mediated hypercalcemia can occur in both immunocompromised and immunocompetent hosts. In a review summarizing 16 cases of histoplasmosis induced hypercalcemia, 68.7% (11/16) were immunosuppressed. The common presentations were with polyuria, constipation, altered sensorium, and renal insufficiency ( 47 ). Hypercalcemia is also reported in cryptococcus and pneumocystis infections in individuals with HIV/AIDS ( 48 – 50 ). Hypercalcemia can be an early marker of pneumocystis pneumonia in renal transplant recipients ( 51 , 52 ). Laboratory Features Patients present with elevated serum calcium and phosphate levels, suppressed PTH values, normal 25(OH)D, and increased 1,25(OH) 2 D concentrations. Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) levels can be elevated ( 47 ). Treatment Hypercalcemia resolves with resolution of the infection after institution of successful antifungal therapy. Hydration, calcitonin, and bisphosphonates can be considered to lower calcium till the effect of antifungal medication occurs ( 47 ). Steroids can be used in resistant cases but should be initiated only under appropriate antifungal coverage. Fatalities have been reported when the cases have been misdiagnosed as sarcoidosis and steroids initiated without antifungal drugs ( 53 , 54 ). Some cases show transient worsening
