Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


antifungal coverage. Fatalities have been reported when the cases have been misdiagnosed as sarcoidosis and steroids initiated without antifungal drugs ( 53 , 54 ). Some cases show transient worsening of hypercalcemia probably mediated by immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome ( 55 ). Also, initiation of antiretroviral therapy in patients with HIV/AIDS infected with cryptococcus, might cause hypercalcemia. This may be due to restoration of granulomatous host response ( 56 ). PARATHYROID HORMONE REALTED PROTEIN (PTHRP) MEDIATED HYPERCALCEMIA Coccidioidomycosis infection is associated with hypercalcemia. However, the mechanism of hypercalcemia in coccidioidomycosis is not related to autonomous 1,25(OH) 2 D production. It could be due to osseous coccidioidomycosis in some cases, but in the majority of cases it occurs without bony lesions. Serum PTH levels and 1,25(OH 2 )D levels were either suppressed or normal ( 57 ). Expression of PTHrP by the granulomatous tissue has been documented in coccidioidomycosis. The serum PTHrP levels are elevated in cases with hypercalcemia and presumed to be the possible mechanism. The PTHrP levels return to normal along with resolution of hypercalcemia after successful antifungal treatment ( 58 ). OTHER DISORDERS OF CALCIUM METABOLISM Histoplasmosis-induced hypercalcemia has been postulated to result from excess expression and secretion of osteopontin by histiocytes in granulomas ( 59 ). Osteopontin can activate osteoclasts and subsequently lead to bone resorption ( 60 ). However, currently there is insufficient evidence to support this hypothesis. Hypoparathyroidism has also been described in HIV/AIDS with pneumocystis infiltrating the parathyroid glands. It causes hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia ( 61 ). Fungal Infection of the Adrenal Gland The adrenal gland is the commonest endocrine organ to be affected by infections including mycosis. Adrenal fungal infection can be asymptomatic and get detected as an incidental finding during radiological imaging, or can manifest with symptoms of adrenal insufficiency ( 62 , 63 ). ETIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS Unlike the other endocrine organs, isolated adrenal involvement can be seen as a manifestation of endemic mycoses in immunocompetent hosts by histoplasmosis, paracoccidioidomycosis, blastomycosis, and other fungal organisms ( 64 – 66 ). The susceptibility to develop primary adrenal infection or disseminated fungal disease is however more often seen in the immunocompromised individuals with HIV/AIDS, or in those receiving immunosuppressive therapy such as solid organ transplant recipients ( 67 ). Predisposition of the adrenal glands to fungal infections is postulated to be due to suppression of cell-mediated local immunity caused by high local glucocorticoid
