Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


organ transplant recipients ( 67 ). Predisposition of the adrenal glands to fungal infections is postulated to be due to suppression of cell-mediated local immunity caused by high local glucocorticoid levels ( 68 ). More often than isolated involvement, the adrenal gland is involved as a part of disseminated infection. Histoplasmosis and paracoccidioidomycosis are the commonest fungal infections reported to have adrenal disease at autopsy ( 67 , 69 ). Affinity for different adrenal zones might vary for different fungal infections. Paracoccidioides species has affinity for zona reticularis as well as zona glomerulosa leading to decreased dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and aldosterone levels, respectively ( 59 , 70 , 71 ). The large fungal cells cause embolic infection of the small vessels of the gland subsequently leading to endovasculitis, granuloma formation and caseous necrosis ( 67 , 72 ). In patients with histoplasmosis, zona fasciculata and reticularis are preferentially affected owing to the presence of high concentration of cortisol ( 73 ). Vasculitis of downstream medullary vessels starting from zona fasciculata induce glandular destruction and subsequent caseation necrosis ( 68 , 74 ). CLINICAL FEATURES The spectrum of manifestations of fungal adrenal involvement can vary from asymptomatic cases detected incidentally to frank adrenal crisis. Occasionally, adrenal involvement can get masked by the disseminated fungal disease or the underlying immunocompromised state ( 67 ). Many of the patients despite bilateral adrenal infection do not develop adrenal insufficiency, as destruction of more than 90% of adrenal cortex is required for the disease to manifest ( 59 ). Some studies have observed lower prevalence of adrenal involvement in immunocompromised hosts, presumably due to the inability to launch a granulomatous response in the gland ( 75 , 76 ). Addison’s disease is most frequently reported with histoplasmosis and paracoccidioidomycosis, given their high affinity for adrenal glands. In a review of 252 cases of adrenal histoplasmosis, adrenal hypofunction was confirmed in 41.3%. Almost all the cases were secondary to chronic disseminated pulmonary histoplasmosis although isolated adrenal involvement has also been reported ( 77 ). A study of 546 cases of paracoccidioidomycosis from Brazil documented adrenal involvement in only 5% (n = 27) ( 78 ). Another review revealed partial adrenal insufficiency in 33–40% of cases, and frank symptoms in 3–10% cases ( 79 ). Patients with diminished adrenal reserve often require glucocorticoid supplementation during periods of stress or after initiating antifungal agents known to affect steroidogenesis. There
