Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


symptoms in 3–10% cases ( 79 ). Patients with diminished adrenal reserve often require glucocorticoid supplementation during periods of stress or after initiating antifungal agents known to affect steroidogenesis. There are reports of blastomycosis, pneumocystis, and cryptococcus causing adrenal insufficiency as well ( 80 – 82 ). The clinical features of primary adrenal insufficiency include fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, orthostatic hypotension, and hyperpigmentation ( 66 , 83 ). DIAGNOSIS Fungal infection of the adrenal glands can be asymptomatic and detected incidentally on abdominal imaging. Radiographically bilateral symmetric adrenal enlargement is seen with histoplasmosis whereas paracoccidioidomycosis and blastomycosis cause asymmetric and occasionally unilateral involvement ( 81 , 84 – 86 ). Other radiographical features include peripheral enhancement, central hypoattenuation, preserved contour, and calcifications ( 66 , 67 ). These features help to differentiate from other disorders such as metastatic disease where the adrenal contour is distorted and autoimmune adrenalitis, where the glands are atrophic ( 66 , 67 , 87 , 88 ). The laboratory findings such as hyponatremia and hyperkalemia are often seen but the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency is confirmed with the short Synacthen test (SST) or cosyntropin test (250 ug of Synacthen, im or iv) in chronic and stable cases. In a patient with suspected Addisonian crisis, a blood sample collected for estimation of serum cortisol and adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) before initiating glucocorticoid replacement can be helpful. A formal evaluation by SST can be performed later. Simultaneous estimation of plasma renin and aldosterone to determine mineralocorticoid reserve can be considered. ( 66 ). The confirmation of fungal etiology might necessitate fungal staining or culture of the biopsied material. In disseminated disease, a more accessible site like skin lesion or affected lymph node can be biopsied instead of the adrenal gland. MANGEMENT AND PROGNOSIS Initiation of antifungal therapy at the earliest is essential to salvage adrenal function. Recovery has been reported in a few cases with histoplasmosis and paracoccidioidomycosis ( 59 ). However, frequently adrenal insufficiency is irreversible and lifelong glucocorticoid replacement is required. Mineralocorticoid replacement with fludrocortisone may additionally be necessary ( 83 ). Onset of adrenal insufficiency in paracoccidioidomycosis can occur after initiation of antifungal therapy from the fibrosis that occurs during recovery ( 79 , 89 ). Fungal Infection of the Pancreas The pancreas is normally resistant to fungal infection. Fungal affection of the pancreas usually occurs in an inflamed gland in the presence
