Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


, 89 ). Fungal Infection of the Pancreas The pancreas is normally resistant to fungal infection. Fungal affection of the pancreas usually occurs in an inflamed gland in the presence of underlying necrosis. Although rare, the prevalence of fungal pancreatitis is on the rise. ETIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS Candida ( C. albicans and C. glabrata ) is the most common etiology responsible for fungal pancreatic infections ( 90 ). Pneumocystis, aspergillosis, and cryptococcosis have also been reported to affect the pancreas ( 91 – 93 ). The risk factors for fungal infection are necrotizing pancreatitis, use of broad-spectrum antibiotics, abdominal surgery, prolonged total parenteral nutrition, indwelling catheters, and an immunosuppressed state. The mode of spread could be translocation from the gut, hematogenous spread, or external seeding ( 90 ). CLINICAL COURSE AND MANAGEMENT The clinical features of fungal infection of the pancreas are non-specific. Abdominal pain, fever, and a palpable abdominal mass can occur ( 94 ). Most cases of fungal pancreatitis occur on the backdrop of recent necrotizing pancreatitis ( 90 , 94 ). In a study of 92 patients with necrotizing pancreatitis, 22 (24%) had evidence of candida infection in the surgical necrosectomy material ( 95 ). Candida was demonstrated in 27% of aspirates from walled-off necrosis occurring after acute pancreatitis ( 96 ). Rare cases of recurrent pancreatitis from candida have also been described ( 97 , 98 ). Fungal culture and staining of percutaneous aspirates, or necrosed tissue obtained during surgery, are necessary to establish the diagnosis. Antifungal therapy and surgical drainage and debridement are the mainstay of therapy. Mortality rates are higher if candida infection is present ( 95 ). Fungal Infection of the Testis ETIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS Fungal epididymo-orchitis can occur in isolation or as a part of disseminated infection. The fungi reported to infect testis and epididymis include candida, blastomycosis, histoplasma, aspergillus, and cryptococcus ( 99 – 103 ). Both C. albicans and C. glabatra can cause epididymo-orchitis by retrograde transport from infection in the urinary tract. Risk factors comprise diabetes mellitus, instrumentation of the urinary tract, urinary obstruction, or recent antibiotic usage ( 104 ). The majority of blastomycosis infections were associated with systemic diseases ( 105 ). Granulomatous epididymo-orchitis can also occur as a part of disseminated histoplasmosis in immunocompromised state ( 106 ). CLINICAL COURSE AND MANAGEMENT Most patients present with unilateral or bilateral pain and swelling of the scrotum. Onset
