Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


as a part of disseminated histoplasmosis in immunocompromised state ( 106 ). CLINICAL COURSE AND MANAGEMENT Most patients present with unilateral or bilateral pain and swelling of the scrotum. Onset can be acute or insidious with duration of symptoms lasting for days to months ( 104 ). In contrast, bacterial infection is almost always unilateral with an acute onset of scrotal swelling, redness, and pain. Some fungal infections may remain asymptomatic and get detected on autopsy ( 102 ). Fungal epididymo-orchitis is also recognized as a cause of azoospermia and infertility ( 107 ). This is mainly due to direct gonadal invasion but can also be due to anti-sperm effects induced by fungi and by secreted mycotoxins ( 59 ). C. guilliermondii and C. albicans can affect sperm viability and motility ( 108 ). Antifungal agents are the mainstay of treatment. Surgery may be required in some cases. Fungal Infection of the Ovary ETIOLOGY AND PATHOGENESIS Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) refers to infection of the upper genital tract usually occurring in reproductive age females. A tubo-ovarian abscess (TOA) is a sequela of PID. It is a complex adnexal mass resulting from ascent of the infection through the fallopian tube ( 109 ). Though the common causative organisms are bacteria such as Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae , fungal infections are also recognized as an important etiological agent ( 110 ). It can also be a part of disseminated infection ( 111 – 113 ). C. albicans as well as other candida species such as C. glabrata and C. keyfr have been described to cause TOA ( 114 – 116 ). Intrauterine devices, diabetes, and morbid obesity are the typical risk factors ( 114 , 117 ). There are rare reports of female genital coccidioidomycosis ( 112 , 113 , 118 ). CLINICAL COURSE AND MANAGEMENT The usual presentation is that of a pelvic infection not responding to conventional antibiotics ( 117 ). Presenting symptoms can be dysmenorrhea, menstrual irregularities, menorrhagia, anovulation, and infertility. Occasional patients present with severe lower abdominal pain, fever and vomiting ( 116 ). Fusarium toxin zearalenone and its metabolite zearalenol can be present as a contaminant in cereals and usually enter the food chain as pesticide. It is a non-steroidal estrogen mycotoxin with strong affinity for estrogen receptors ( 119 ). The resulting hyperestrogenism has the potential to cause infertility by suppressing luteinizing hormone (LH) and
