Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


It is a non-steroidal estrogen mycotoxin with strong affinity for estrogen receptors ( 119 ). The resulting hyperestrogenism has the potential to cause infertility by suppressing luteinizing hormone (LH) and progesterone secretion and also can have a carcinogenic effect on the breast ( 120 ). FUNGAL INFECTIONS OCCURING IN ENDOCRINE DISORDERS Individuals with certain endocrine disorders such as diabetes mellitus and Cushing’s syndrome are predisposed to fungal infections as a result of the associated immune dysfunction. Both pathogenic and opportunistic fungi can cause infection in these conditions. APS1 is an endocrine syndrome characterized by CMC ( 121 ). The common fungal infections occurring in individuals with endocrine dysfunction are discussed below. Other fungal infections like coccidioidomycosis and aspergillosis are also known to occur at a higher frequency in individuals with diabetes. Fungal Infections in Patients with Diabetes Diabetes is known to affect both innate and adaptive immunity. Hyperglycemia also induces critical alterations in cytokine signaling ( 122 ). Fungal infections in general occur at a slightly increased frequency in diabetes, especially if glycemic control is poor. However, certain fungal infections like mucocutaneous candidiasis and invasive mucormycosis have a strong association with diabetes ( 123 ). CANDIDIASIS Infection with candida is common in individuals with diabetes ( 124 ) . Genital candidiasis is often an indicator for undetected or poorly controlled diabetes. Increased hydrolytic enzyme activity and hydrophobicity along with altered biofilm formation have been proposed as possible mechanisms that favor candida infection in diabetes ( 125 , 126 ). The common sites and clinical characteristics of candida infection in diabetes are summarized in table 5 . Table 5. Candida Infections in Diabetes View in own window Site Usual species Predisposing factors Clinical features Diagnosis Treatment Oral candidiasis C. albicans C. glabrata C. tropicalis C. krusei C. dubliniensis C. parapsilosis ( 124 ) Uncontrolled hyperglycemia, dentures, xerostomia, inhaled corticosteroids ( 127 ) Types of lesions: Pseudo-membranous Hyperplastic Erythematous Atrophic (denture stomatitis) Angular cheilitis Median rhomboid glossitis ( 128 ) Compatible clinical findings; Confirmation by Gram stain or KOH preparation or fungal culture of the scrapings ( 129 ) Oral hygiene Topical: Clotrimazole, miconazole, nystatin, amphotericin B suspension Oral: Fluconazole, itraconazole ( 129 ) Vulvo-vaginal candidiasis C. albicans C. glabrata ( 124 ) Uncontrolled hyperglycemia, pregnancy and hyper-estrogenemic state, SGLT2 inhibitor therapy, immunosuppression ( 130 ) Thick white cottage cheese-like discharge, itching, pain, redness, burning, edema and dyspareunia Clinical findings, Vaginal swab
