Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


B Step down therapy: Fluconazole if susceptibility results support ( 144 ) KOH - potassium hydroxide, SGLT2 - Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2, COPD – chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, PPI – proton-pump inhibitor, PAS – Periodic Acid Schiff, PCR – polymerase chain reaction, TPN – total parenteral nutrition. MUCORMYCOSIS Mucormycosis refers to a group of infections caused by fungi of the order Mucorales present ubiquitously in the environment. Individuals with uncontrolled diabetes or those who are immunosuppressed are characteristically affected. The most common presentation is rhino-orbital-cerebral mucormycosis, though pulmonary, gastrointestinal, cutaneous, and renal infection can also occur ( 145 ). Several cases of mucormycosis have been reported recently following SARS COV-2 disease ( 146 ). Around 40% of the patients had received corticosteroids within the month before the diagnosis of mucormycosis. Diabetes with ketoacidosis (DKA) is 50% more likely to develop mucormycosis than without DKA. The prognosis is poor and mortality rates remain high. The rhino-orbital-cerebral form is characteristically associated with diabetes and detailed below. Pathogenic Organisms The pathogenic fungi belonging to order Mucorale customarily associated with human infections are Rhizopus, Mucor, and Lichtheimia (formerly Absidia and Mycocladus) . The rarer pathogens include Rhizomucor , Cunninghamella , Apophysomyces , and Saksenaea ( 147 ) . Infection occurs presumably from inhalation of spores. Pathogenesis Patients with diabetes, defects in phagocytic function (such as neutropenia or glucocorticoid treatment), and/or elevated levels of free iron which supports fungal growth in serum and tissues are prone to mucormycosis. DKA is a risk factor for developing rhino-orbital-cerebral mucormycosis, as acidosis leads to dissociation of iron from sequestering proteins, which aids increased fungal survival and virulence ( 148 ). Moreover, the ketoacid β -hydroxybutyrate facilitates fungal adherence and penetration into tissues, by increased expression of fungal receptors ( 149 ). Apart from ketoacidosis, hyperglycemia itself may contribute to the risk of mucormycosis by four possible mechanisms: (i) disruption of normal iron sequestration due to hyper-glycation of iron-sequestering proteins; (ii) phagocytic dysfunction; (iii) enhanced expression of a mammalian cell receptor (GRP78) that binds to Mucorales, enabling tissue penetration; (iv) enhanced expression of CotH, a Mucorales-specific protein that binds to GRP78 and mediates host cell invasion ( 150 ). The risk factors for mucormycosis are summarized in table 6 . Table 6. Risk Factors for Mucormycosis View in own window Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus especially if associated with ketoacidosis Underlying malignancy receiving chemotherapy or immunotherapy Solid organ transplant Hematopoietic stem cell transplant
