Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


6. Risk Factors for Mucormycosis View in own window Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus especially if associated with ketoacidosis Underlying malignancy receiving chemotherapy or immunotherapy Solid organ transplant Hematopoietic stem cell transplant Treatment with deferoxamine Iron overload Corticosteroid therapy Trauma or burns Malnutrition Coronavirus disease 2019 Clinical Features Rhino-orbital-cerebral mucormycosis is the most common form of the disease whereas lung, gastrointestinal, renal, and cutaneous involvement are less frequent ( 145 ). Initial symptoms of rhino-orbital-cerebral mucormycosis include eye or facial pain and facial numbness followed by conjunctival suffusion and blurring of vision. Facial erythema with or without edema may be present. Fever occurs in only half of the cases ( 151 ). Black, necrotic eschar develops over the palate or in the nasal mucosa. In untreated cases, infection spreads from the ethmoid sinus to the orbit which involvement of extra-ocular muscles. It results in proptosis, typically with chemosis. Infection might further extend from the orbit to the frontal lobe of the brain via hematogenous route or contiguous dissemination. It may extend to cavernous sinus as well via venous drainage ( 147 ). The clinical features are summarized in table 7 . Table 7. Clinical Features of Rhino-Orbital-Cerebral Mucormycosis View in own window Site Symptoms Signs Paranasal sinuses Nasal congestion, purulent nasal discharge or post-nasal drip, loss of smell, headache, pain over the sinuses Swelling, redness, ulceration and blackening of overlying skin and nasal mucosa Systemic features Fever Fever Orbit Red eyes, pain, visual blurring, loss of vision, bulging of eyes Periorbital swelling, chemosis, proptosis, loss of visual acuity Cavernous sinus Headache, periorbital swelling and pain, diplopia, and visual loss Periorbital swelling, chemosis, ptosis, proptosis, restricted or painful eye movement, diminished facial sensation Palate Ulceration, pain, swelling Ulceration, eschar formation Central nervous system Headache, drowsiness, seizures, hemiparesis, obtundation, coma Focal seizures, hemiparesis, altered sensorium Vascular invasion Black eschars over skin, nasal mucosa, palate and involved areas, symptoms related to stroke Black eschars (from cutaneous necrosis), focal neurological deficit (also from mycotic aneurysm) Diagnosis Clinical features, mycological, and histological investigations and imaging with CT or MRI are necessary for establishing the diagnosis and assessing the extent of spread. If sinusitis is suspected, endoscopy should be performed. Histopathological examination of infected tissue demonstrates characteristic wide, thick walled, ribbon like, aseptate hyphal elements that branch at right angles. Fungal culture of specimens is strongly recommended for genus and species identification, and for antifungal susceptibility testing (
