Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


thick walled, ribbon like, aseptate hyphal elements that branch at right angles. Fungal culture of specimens is strongly recommended for genus and species identification, and for antifungal susceptibility testing ( 145 ). PCR-based technique and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) can assist to confirm fungal etiology if cultures are negative ( 145 , 152 ). MRI of the cranium including the sinuses and orbit should be done to delineate the extent of involvement ( 145 ). CT scan can help to assess the extent of bony erosion and can be considered if MRI is not readily available. Treatment and Prognosis Surgical debridement of the necrotic tissue in combination with intravenous lipid preparations of amphotericin B are the mainstay of therapy. It is also important to restore euglycemia and correct acidosis as soon as possible. The recommended dose of lipid formulation amphotericin B is 5mg/kg/day. There is evidence to support a higher dose of 10 mg/kg/day in cases of CNS involvement. There is no consensus on total duration of therapy but it usually takes weeks to months for completely cure these infections. It is critically important to monitor for adverse effects of amphotericin B especially nephrotoxicity and electrolyte imbalance. Posaconazole or isavuconazole can be considered as oral step down therapy, as salvage therapy, or if amphotericin B related adverse effects precludes its further use ( 145 ). Repeat surgery may be necessary if the infection progresses. Prognosis is poor especially if there is associated CNS involvement. DERMATOPHYTES Dermatophytosis are caused by filamentous fungi belonging to the genera Microsporum, Epidermophyton, and Trichophyton . Dermatophytes cause infection of skin, hairs, and nails and derive nutrition from keratin present in these tissues. Dermatophytosis is known to occur commonly in individuals with diabetes. Infection of the hair is referred to as tinea capitis (scalp) and tinea barbae (beard). Infection of the body surface in general is called tinea corporis while that of groin is known as tinea cruris. Skin infection with dermatophytes occurring over the feet is called tinea pedis. It can cause micro-fissuring that may predispose to secondary bacterial infection and subsequently to diabetic foot. The other form of dermatophyte infection affecting feet is onychomycosis or tinea unguium ( 153 ). Tinea pedis and onychomycosis are commonly causes by the anthropophilic dermatophytes T. rubrum, T. interdigitale and E. floccosum ( 154 ) . Uremic patients on hemodialysis more often have dystrophic nail
