Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


pedis and onychomycosis are commonly causes by the anthropophilic dermatophytes T. rubrum, T. interdigitale and E. floccosum ( 154 ) . Uremic patients on hemodialysis more often have dystrophic nail changes and are at increased risk of developing onychomycosis ( 155 ). Dystrophic nails in onychomycosis look thick, brittle and discolored, often with a yellow shade. It may also lead to separation of the nail plate from the nail bed (onycholysis). Paronychial inflammation of the nail edge surrounding skin is a characteristic feature ( 156 ). Early recognition and treatment of tinea pedis and onychomycosis can prevent ominous complications like diabetic foot. Clinical features along with KOH preparation of scrapings from affected area are usually adequate to establish the diagnosis. Treatment mainly includes topical and oral agents with activity against dermatophytes. The commonly applied topical agents includes azoles, allylamines, butenafine, ciclopirox, and tolnaftate. Oral therapy usually involves use of terbinafine, itraconazole or fluconazole ( 157 ). Fungal Infections in Cushing’s Syndrome The susceptibility of individuals with Cushing’s syndrome to fungal infection is well recognized. Both endogenous and exogenous hypercortisolism are associated with opportunistic fungal diseases. Hypercortisolism induces immune dysfunction by multiple mechanisms ( 158 ). The major defects induced by excess cortisol are depicted in table 8 . Among the subtypes of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome, fungal infections are more commonly seen in the syndrome of ectopic ACTH secretion. Propensity for fungal infections in exogenous Cushing’s syndrome depends on both, the intensity of glucocorticoid therapy and relative virulence of the offending fungus. With respect to glucocorticoids, it depends on administration route, dose, potency, and duration of treatment ( 159 ). The commonly reported fungal infections in Cushing’s syndrome are discussed below. Table 8. Hypercortisolemia-Induced Immune Dysfunctions Increasing Susceptibility to Fungal Infections View in own window Cell/Mediator Dysfunction Innate immunity Neutrophils Impaired neutrophil adherence to endothelium Monocytes and macrophages Decreased circulating monocytes Decreased degranulation capacity Decreased phagocyte function Natural Killer cells Suppressed cytotoxic activity Adaptive immunity T Cells Lymphopenia due to a reduction in CD4+ subset Influences the Th1/Th2 balance Induces apoptosis in mature T lymphocytes Cytokines Cytokines Down-regulates multiple cytokines by inactivating key proinflammatory transcription factors (e.g., NF kappa B) CD - cluster of differentiation, Th – T helper cells, NF – nuclear factor CANDIDIASIS In immunocompromised states such as Cushing’s syndrome, candida species may cause superficial infections like cutaneous candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis, esophagitis, or vulvovaginitis. Cases of candida endophthalmitis have
