Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


– nuclear factor CANDIDIASIS In immunocompromised states such as Cushing’s syndrome, candida species may cause superficial infections like cutaneous candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis, esophagitis, or vulvovaginitis. Cases of candida endophthalmitis have also been described ( 160 ). It may also disseminate in the bloodstream to cause candidemia. Glucocorticoid may augment biological fitness of candida species, by enhancing its adhesion to epithelial cells. C. albicans is the most common species reported though infection with C. glabrata, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis can also occur (159) . ASPERGILLUS Aspergillus is associated with invasive fungal infection in endogenous Cushing’s syndrome as well as in those receiving exogenous glucocorticoids ( 161 ) . Most common species to cause invasive infection are A. fumigatus , followed by A. flavus, A. terreus, and A. niger . The usual portal of entry for aspergillus is typically the pulmonary tract. However, later it might get disseminated systemically and severe cases requiring emergency bilateral adrenalectomy for control of hypercortisolism has been reported ( 162 ). Apart from immune dysfunction, glucocorticoids can induce alterations in the biology of aspergillus species to increase its invasiveness. For example A. fumigatus and A. flavus showed increased growth on in-vitro exposure to pharmacological doses of hydrocortisone ( 163 ). PNEUMOCYSTIS P. jirovecii is usually seen in immunocompromised patients. Severe P. jirovecii pneumonia even leading to fatal outcome are described in cases of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome ( 164 ). The infection is often unmasked once treatment for hypercortisolism is commenced. The restoration of immune response with lowering of cortisol levels presumably induce the inflammatory changes and result in manifest disease ( 165 , 166 ). A review of 15 cases of P. jirovecii pneumonia, reiterated the same observation of immune reconstitution related worsening of symptoms after treatment initiation. In 13 of these cases symptoms were triggered after cortisol-lowering therapy was started. Interestingly, all but one if these patients had ectopic Cushing’s syndrome. All the cases were characterized by severe hypercortisolemia and the outcome was fatal in 11 cases ( 167 ). Patients with Cushing’s syndrome, especially those with severe hypercortisolemia might benefit from prophylaxis with cotrimoxazole before beginning cortisol-lowering therapy. CRYPTOCOCCOSIS C. neoformans is another opportunistic infection where Cushing’s syndrome is a predisposing factor. The route of entry is inhalational. It may cause pneumonitis or disseminate systemically to cause more severe infections, such as meningitis and meningoencephalitis ( 168 ). Fatal cases have been reported (
