Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


of entry is inhalational. It may cause pneumonitis or disseminate systemically to cause more severe infections, such as meningitis and meningoencephalitis ( 168 ). Fatal cases have been reported ( 169 , 170 ). The presence of coexisting diabetes might further increase the risk of infection ( 171 ). Glucocorticoid-induced immunosuppression has a few unique characteristics noted with cryptococcosis. For example, alveolar macrophage capacity to attach to and ingest is diminished by cortisone acetate, which potentially may lead to dissemination of the fungus ( 172 ). Moreover, chemotactic activity of cerebrospinal fluid toward polymorphonuclear (PMN) leucocytes and monocytes, is substantially reduced by glucocorticoid administration. This leads to lack of PMN leucocyte influx in cerebrospinal fluid and subsequent inability to eradicate fungi like C. neoformans with tropism for the CNS. Glucocorticoid-induced abnormalities of microglial cells further intensify this attenuation. Thus, individuals with hypercortisolemia are predisposed to cryptococcal meningitis ( 173 ). HISTOPLASMOSIS Pulmonary histoplasmosis has been reported in association with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome ( 174 ). Patients receiving glucocorticoids may develop primary or reactivated infections by endemic fungi ( 175 ). There are reports of pulmonary histoplasmosis after prolonged glucocorticoid therapy from non-endemic countries as well ( 176 ). H. capsulatum , the usual pathogen in most cases of histoplasmosis, enters through the respiratory tract and causes pulmonary histoplasmosis but can also disseminate to cause systemic infection. Pathological features of histoplasmosis are atypical in patients treated with glucocorticoids. Discrete granuloma formation is prevented by the anti-inflammatory properties of glucocorticoids ( 175 ). OTHER FUNGAL INFECTIONS Other fungal infections reported with hypercortisolemia are C. immitis, mucor, fusarium and blastomyces ( 159 ). Besides the heightened risk of fungal inspection in hypercortisolemia, the other concerning issue is masking of the signs and symptoms of infections due to the anti-inflammatory properties of glucocorticoids. Recognition of infections may be delayed in presence of hypercortisolemia, and a high index of suspicion is required for early diagnosis. Treatment of fungal infection must include prompt correction of hypercortisolism and aggressive antifungal therapy. Chronic Mucocutaneous Candidiasis in Autoimmune Polyendocrine Syndrome Type 1 Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS1) is characterized by the classical triad of chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis (CMC), autoimmune hypoparathyroidism, and Addison’s disease. Two of the three classic features should be present to establish the diagnosis of APS1. However, there is a risk of the development of autoimmune diseases affecting almost every organ. APS1 is also known as
