Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


features should be present to establish the diagnosis of APS1. However, there is a risk of the development of autoimmune diseases affecting almost every organ. APS1 is also known as autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED) with ectodermal dysplasia occurring in a third of the patients. Ectodermal dystrophy is not related to candidiasis ( 121 ). CMC commonly occurs sporadically secondary to AIDS, diabetes, and immunosuppressive treatment ( 177 ). C. albicans is the predominant pathogen but infection with other candida species is also described. PATHOGENESIS APS1 is an autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in the autoimmune regulator (AIRE) gene, located on the short arm of chromosome 21. The functioning of following pathways can be altered in APS1, though the specific contribution in increasing susceptibility to candida infection is not well defined. i. Defects in AIRE gene are associated with autoantibodies to interleukin (IL) 17A, IL17F and IL22, which are key cytokines for the function of the T-helper (Th) 17 cell subset. Loss of function of these cytokines increase susceptibility to candida infections ( 177 ). ii. Autoimmunity to mediators involved in antigen presentation by B cells may be an additional factor responsible for susceptibility. This is further corroborated by the response to rituximab (anti-CD 20 antibody that prevents B cell function) to certain components of the disease in individuals with AIRE deficiency ( 178 ). iii. A defect in Dectin-1, a β-glucan receptor, has been shown to diminish tumor necrosis factor α production in APS-1. Innate immune response is affected as a result ( 179 ). CLINICAL SPECTRUM CMC is the most common component of APS-1. It has been reported in 80-100% of cases in different series ( 121 , 177 ). Onset of CMC is usually in the first decade and cases can be seen in the very first year of life. Mouth, nails and, less frequently, skin, vagina and the esophagus are affected. The infection tends to be persistent or recurrent. Severity of the infection in variable, however disseminated disease is rare ( 177 ). The oral mucosa is the usual site of infection. All spectra of infection starting from localized ulceration, and redness in mild cases to involvement of entire mouth is described. White or grey membrane covering the tongue or mucosa are visible in the hyperplastic form. Cracks (angular cheilitis or perlèche) occurring at the angle of the mouth is common. The atrophic form has areas
