Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


covering the tongue or mucosa are visible in the hyperplastic form. Cracks (angular cheilitis or perlèche) occurring at the angle of the mouth is common. The atrophic form has areas of leukoplakia, which is a significant risk factor for carcinoma of the oral mucosa. The finger nails are the other site which is commonly affected. There can be an associated paronychia. Onychomycosis in CMC is particularly resistant to treatment ( 121 , 180 ). TREATMENT Oral fluconazole is the preferred therapy. Some patients require suppressive treatment with fluconazole 100 mg three times a week. Emergence of resistance remains a possibility with suppressive therapy. Alternatives for fluconazole refractory disease includes itraconazole, Posaconazole, or voriconazole. Rare cases of systemic disease not responding to azoles might require a lipid formulation of amphotericin B or echinocandins ( 144 ). ADVERSE ENDOCRINE EFFECTS OF ANTIFUNGAL AGENTS The antifungal drugs such as polyenes, azoles and echinocandins can impact the function of endocrine glands. Azoles are recognized for their adverse effect on adrenal cortex and the gonads. The other drugs are also known to cause endocrine dysfunction though less frequently. These important adverse endocrine consequences of the different antifungal agents are discussed below. Azoles The azoles are the one of the most frequently administered systemic antifungal agents. They can be divided into two groups on the basis of their structure. Ketoconazole, which belongs to the imidazole group, is associated with multiple endocrine adverse effect, but seldom used orally as an antifungal agent currently. The newer azoles belonging to the triazole group include fluconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole, and isavuconazole. Endocrine dysfunction also occurs with the triazoles but is less frequent ( 181 ). ADRENAL GLAND The azoles exert their antifungal effect by inhibiting the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzyme lanosterol 14-α-demethylase (CYP51) mediated conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol, a critical constituent of fungal cell wall. Mammals do not have this enzyme, but azoles can block the synthesis of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids by blocking CYP450 dependent enzymes involved in steroidogenesis ( 182 ). Ketoconazole Ketoconazole is a dose-dependent reversible inhibitor of cholesterol desmolase, 17,20-lyase, 11β-hydroxylase, 17α-hydroxylase, and 18-hydroxylase ( 183 ). Ketoconazole at doses of more than 200 mg daily can impair glucocorticoid synthesis. Overt adrenal insufficiency is relatively infrequent however it can be seen with doses of 600 to 1200 mg/day, which are often used in the medical management of Cushing’s syndrome ( 59 , 184 ,
