Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


relatively infrequent however it can be seen with doses of 600 to 1200 mg/day, which are often used in the medical management of Cushing’s syndrome ( 59 , 184 , 185 ). Apart from inhibiting enzymes involved in steroidogenesis, ketoconazole is also a dose-dependent, reversible, competitive antagonist at the glucocorticoid receptor level ( 186 ). The inhibitory effect of ketoconazole on adrenal steroid synthesis has been utilized for the medical management of Cushing’s syndrome ( 187 ). Fluconazole and Posaconazole Adrenal insufficiency has been reported with the imidazole derivatives itraconazole, fluconazole, voriconazole, and posaconazole ( 188 – 192 ). Primary adrenal insufficiency induced by fluconazole has been observed in critically ill patient as a result of CYP450 inhibition ( 193 ). Fluconazole has been employed for the medical management of Cushing’s syndrome ( 194 ). Posaconazole-induced primary adrenal insufficiency resulting from a similar mechanism has been described ( 190 , 192 ). Itraconazole and Voriconazole Itraconazole and voriconazole (also ketoconazole) are potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, the enzyme that partially metabolizes glucocorticoids. The resultant decrease in glucocorticoid clearance produces supraphysiological levels of glucocorticoid from inhaled, nasal or oral steroids ( 195 ). The clinical profile resembles that of an iatrogenic Cushing’s syndrome later progressing to secondary or central adrenal insufficiency consequent to suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis ( 196 ). Secondary adrenal insufficiency following combined use of glucocorticoids and itraconazole or voriconazole have been described ( 188 , 191 ). Steroids that are predominantly metabolized by the CYP3A4 pathway include methylprednisolone, fluticasone, budesonide and triamcinolone. It may be prudent to consider alternative glucocorticoids such as prednisolone, beclomethasone, or flunisolide that are not predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 enzymes when voriconazole or itraconazole is being administered ( 190 , 191 ). Pseudohyperaldosteronism Posaconazole and itraconazole has been associated with a syndrome of mineralocorticoid excess manifested by low-renin low-aldosterone hypertension and hypokalemia ( 197 ). Two distinct mechanisms are implicated in the pathogenesis with significant interindividual differences. Posaconazole can inhibit the enzyme 11 β-hydroxylase (CYP11B1) and prevent the conversion of 11-deoxycortisol to cortisol. Diminished cortisol synthesis triggers adrenal steroidogenesis as a result of loss of feedback inhibition of the HPA axis and causes accumulation of 11-deoxycortisol (and 11-deoxycorticosterone). Even though aldosterone production is reduced due to posaconazole-induced aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) inhibition, very high levels of 11-deoxycortisol and 11-deoxycorticosterone can overcome that and produce a state of mineralocorticoid excess ( 197 , 198 ).
