Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


reduced due to posaconazole-induced aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) inhibition, very high levels of 11-deoxycortisol and 11-deoxycorticosterone can overcome that and produce a state of mineralocorticoid excess ( 197 , 198 ). The other mechanism incriminated is blockage of the peripheral cortisol metabolizing enzyme 11 β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 (11β-HSD2) leading to an increased ratio of active to inactive cortisol metabolite. Elevated ratios of cortisol to corticosterone and their tetrahydro-metabolites are observed in such individuals ( 198 ). There are few case reports of itraconazole and several reports of posaconazole-induced pseudohyperladosteronism ( 199 – 202 ). Therapeutic options include lowering the dose of azoles or changing to alternatives like isavuconazole ( 198 ). GONADS Male Sexual Dysfunction Inhibition of 17,20-lyase by ketoconazole impairs production of testosterone in the male gonads ( 203 ). The effect can be seen even at a single dose of 200mg, however lower testosterone levels and longer duration of suppression can be seen with an increasing dose ( 204 ). Oligospermia and azoospermia as well as decreased libido and impotence have been reported at doses more than 800mg/day ( 181 ). Reversible gynecomastia is another manifestation seen due to increase in the estradiol:testosterone ratio partially attributed to displacement of estrogen from sex-hormone binding globulin by the drug ( 205 ). Ketoconazole also binds to androgen receptors thereby blocking androgen signaling ( 206 ). Antiandrogenic properties of ketoconazole have been used in the treatment of prostate cancer, autonomous Leydig cell hyperactivity in children with precocious puberty, and topical therapy for androgenetic alopecia ( 207 – 209 ). Fluconazole in contrast to ketoconazole does not affect testosterone synthesis ( 210 ). A single case of posaconazole induced gynecomastia has been reported. Inhibition of the CYP11B1 enzyme by the drug stimulates compensatory adrenal steroidogenesis. Increased peripheral conversion of adrenal androgens to estrogen was presumed to induce gynecomastia after posaconazole use. The other possible hypothesis could be reduced catabolism of estrogen in the liver due to blocking of CYP3A4 and CYP3A7 ( 211 ). Female Reproductive Dysfunction Ketoconazole reduces estrogen levels in females. Reduction of estrogen levels could be due to aromatase inhibition or androgen synthesis blockade. Estrogen precursor deprivation from decreased androgen synthesis is likely to be the predominant mechanism ( 59 ). In animal studies, ovarian progesterone production is impaired thereby preventing uterine implantation ( 212 ). Ketoconazole has been used in treatment of polycystic ovarian syndrome and ovarian hyperthecosis, given
