Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


). In animal studies, ovarian progesterone production is impaired thereby preventing uterine implantation ( 212 ). Ketoconazole has been used in treatment of polycystic ovarian syndrome and ovarian hyperthecosis, given its ability to substantially block ovarian androgen synthesis ( 213 ). Itraconazole when co-prescribed with simvastatin, induced metrorrhagia in a 69-year old lady, presumably occurring as result of low-estrogen breakthrough bleeding ( 214 ). Itraconazole can also enhance estrogen metabolism interfering with efficacy of oral contraceptives ( 215 ). Fluconazole on the other hand can increase estrogen levels by inhibiting its metabolism and is not associated with risk of contraceptive failure ( 216 ). HYPONATREMIA Voriconazole use has been associated with severe hyponatremia. The median time to onset of hyponatremia is 6-26 days ( 217 ). Severe hyponatremia, volume depletion, elevated antidiuretic hormone (ADH), and plasma renin activity along with high urinary sodium suggestive of salt-losing nephropathy were observed after voriconazole administration ( 218 ). Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) has been implicated as another possible mechanism and euvolemia is the critical distinguishing feature from salt-losing nephropathy ( 219 ). The toxic effect of voriconazole is concentration-dependent and therapeutic drug monitoring has been found to be useful for prevention and dose adjustment for hyponatremia ( 220 ). The risk of hyponatremia increased with trough concentrations > 7 mg/L and the dose should be modified to maintain levels below that threshold ( 181 ). An interesting observation was predisposition to develop voriconazole induced hyponatremia among Asians, in whom polymorphism of CYP2C19 is more common ( 221 ). CYP2C19 is the enzyme that metabolizes voriconazole and dosing depending on genotype has been proposed as a means to avert its adverse effects including hyponatremia ( 222 , 223 ). FLUORIDE-INDUCED PERIOSTITIS There are several reports of voriconazole-induced periostitis presumably related to excess fluoride released from the three fluorine atoms present in the molecule ( 224 – 228 ). A 400 mg tablet of voriconazole contains approximately 65 mg of fluoride, however only 5% of the fluoride is generated from the drug in free form ( 181 , 224 ). The other fluorinated azoles fluconazole and posaconazole contain two atoms of fluorides and have not been associated with fluorosis and periostitis ( 225 ). A review summarizing 98 cases of periostitis, reported the median age to be 59 years with onset of symptoms between 6 weeks to 8 years after drug exposure. Presenting
