Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


). A review summarizing 98 cases of periostitis, reported the median age to be 59 years with onset of symptoms between 6 weeks to 8 years after drug exposure. Presenting features are muscle and bone pain. Affection of almost any skeletal site has been described ( 229 ). Ribs and ulna are the most common site of involvement. The other involved sites include tibia, clavicle, femur, radius, fibula, scapula, and humerus ( 224 , 229 ). The serum fluoride and alkaline phosphatase levels are significantly higher in those with periostitis compared to those without ( 224 ). The plain radiograph reveals multiple areas of periosteal thickening along with formation of new bones which may take the form of an exostoses or can be fluffy. The radiological findings are analogous to periostitis deformans observed in fluoride intoxication ( 230 ). Bone scan shows increased tracer uptake but unlike hypertrophic osteoarthropathy tend to be asymmetric ( 224 ). Discontinuation of voriconazole usually results in improvement in the majority of cases. Substitution by a non-fluorinated azole such as itraconazole can be considered when continued antifungal coverage is necessary. Replacement by posaconazole has also been beneficial ( 228 ). OTHER ENDOCRINE ABNORMALITIES High dose ketoconazole (1200mg/day) may rarely cause hypothyroidism by interference with iodine and thyroid peroxidase ( 231 ). Ketoconazole is also an inhibitor of 25(OH)D-1α hydroxylase (CYP27B1) leading to decreased 1,25(OH) 2 D levels ( 232 ). Hypercalcemia induced by sarcoidosis, tuberculosis and other granulomatous disorders respond to treatment with ketoconazole ( 233 , 234 ). Both ketoconazole and fluconazole are treatment options for idiopathic infantile hypercalciuria that occurs from CYP24A1 (24-hydroxylase) gene mutations ( 235 , 236 ). The effects of ketoconazole on enzymes regulating vitamin D has also been explored for treatment of prostate cancer ( 208 , 237 ). There are rare reports of pancreatitis with fluconazole, itraconazole, and voriconazole ( 181 ). Voriconazole, ketoconazole, and fluconazole have been implicated as a cause of hypoglycemia ( 238 , 239 ). The hypoglycemia could be due to hyperinsulinemia resulting from decreased degradation of insulin ( 240 ). The metabolism of sulfonylureas can be inhibited by fluconazole thereby increasing the risk of hypoglycemia in individuals receiving both these drugs ( 241 , 242 ). Polyenes The polyenes currently in medical use are nystatin and amphotericin B. Use of nystatin is limited to topical application. Amphotericin B deoxycholate is associated with higher
