Fungi and Endocrine Dysfunction
KEYWORDS: pubmed, fungal, infection, infections, adrenal, pmc, free, article, free article, pmc free, article pubmed, cases, med, clin, infect


, 242 ). Polyenes The polyenes currently in medical use are nystatin and amphotericin B. Use of nystatin is limited to topical application. Amphotericin B deoxycholate is associated with higher risk of toxicity as compared to its lipid preparation. The lipid formulations of amphotericin B are expensive but the risk of adverse effect is less. Electrolyte abnormalities resulting from tubular damage is the predominant endocrine dysfunction described with amphotericin B. Rare cases of pancreatitis have occurred with liposomal amphotericin B ( 243 ). TUBULAR DAMAGE Clinical manifestations of amphotericin B induced nephrotoxicity include renal insufficiency, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, metabolic acidosis resulting from distal renal tubular acidosis, and polyuria due to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (DI) ( 244 – 246 ). The mechanism for DI involves a decrease in aquaporin 2 expression in the kidney medulla, that makes the collecting tubules insensitive to ADH ( 244 ). Although the risk of nephrogenic DI with lipid preparations of amphotericin B is significantly less, cases have still been described ( 247 ). Nephrogenic DI can be managed by amiloride plus hydrochlorothiazide, or indomethacin ( 248 ). Nephrogenic DI can also be induced by hypokalemia caused by amphotericin B ( 249 ). Hypokalemia is more common with amphotericin B deoxycholate but is also recognized with lipid preparations of amphotericin B ( 250 ). Amphotericin B can induce apoptosis of renal tubular cells and also enhance tubular permeability by damage to lining epithelium ( 251 ). Renal magnesium loss can also result from amphotericin B. PTH secretion is affected by hypomagnesemia and that may subsequently lead to hypocalcemia ( 252 ). Monitoring and supplementing potassium and magnesium is an important adjunct to prevent adverse consequences of amphotericin B therapy ( 253 ). Echinocandins Capsofungin, micofungin and antidulafungin are the three echinocandins currently in clinical use. These agents, unlike azoles or amphotericin B, do not usually cause adverse endocrine effects. Micafungin is rarely reported to cause pancreatitis ( 254 ). Caspofungin has been reported to induce hypercalcemia in an infant by an undefined mechanism ( 255 ). Other Agents Oral potassium iodide is used in treatment of cutaneous sporotrichosis ( 256 ). It may precipitate thyrotoxicosis in patients with incipient Graves’ disease or multinodular goiter in areas of relative iodine deficiency (Jod-Basedow disease). Hypothyroidism can occur in those with excessive autoregulation on prolonged exposure (Wolff-Chaikoff effect) ( 257 ). CONCLUSION Although fungi are ubiquitous within the environment, very
