A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


the underlying physiology or common logic properties that determine their identities, rather than features of the pathologies. their positions within the body.25 An organized, systematic Volume Overload Lesions identifi cation of all cardiac structures or segments and their Volume overload lesions are typically due to left-to-right shunt- relationships to each other (connections or alignments between ing at the atrial, ventricular, or great artery levels. In general, if the segments) is carried out to defi ne a given patient’s the location of the left-to-right shunt is proximal to the mitral anatomy.26 valve (e.g., as is the case in atrial septal defects, partial anoma- Th e initial steps to characterize the anomalies and classify a lous pulmonary venous return, or unobstructed total anomalous child’s cardiovascular disease are to determine the cardiac posi- pulmonary venous return), right heart dilation will occur. tion within the thorax and the situs of the thoracic and abdomi- Lesions distal to the mitral valve (e.g., ventricular septal defect, nal organs. Th e position of the heart can be described in terms patent ductus arteriosus, truncus arteriosus) lead to left-sided of its location within the thoracic cavity and the direction of the heart dilation. Children with atrioventricular septal defects (also cardiac apex. For simplicity, the following approach is frequently known as atrioventricular canal defects) also fi t into this cate- used. Th e term levocardia indicates that the heart is in the left gory. Th e magnitude of the shunt and resultant pulmonary to . . hemithorax, as is normally the case. Dextrocardia specifi es that systemic blood fl ow ratio (Qp : Qs) dictates the presence and the heart is located in the right hemithorax and mesocardia that severity of the symptoms and similarly guides medical and sur- the heart is displaced rightward but not completely in the right gical therapies. Diuretic therapy and afterload reduction are thoracic cavity. It is important to consider that an abnormal benefi cial in controlling pulmonary overcirculation and ensur- location of the heart within the thorax (cardiac malposition) ing adequate systemic cardiac output. Transcatheter approaches may result from displacement of the heart by adjacent structures or surgical interventions may be required to address the primary or underlying noncardiac malformations (e.g., diaphragmatic pathology associated with ventricular volume overload (see hernia, lung hypoplasia, scoliosis). Th e visceral situs or sided- Chapter 20). ness of the abdominal organs (liver and stomach) and atrial situs Obstruction
