A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


associated with ventricular volume overload (see hernia, lung hypoplasia, scoliosis). Th e visceral situs or sided- Chapter 20). ness of the abdominal organs (liver and stomach) and atrial situs Obstruction to Systemic Blood Flow are considered independently. Th e visceral situs is classifi ed as Lesions characterized by systemic outfl ow tract obstruction solitus (normal arrangement of viscera; liver on the right, include those with ductal-dependent systemic blood fl ow. Th ese stomach on the left and single spleen on the left), inversus range from critical aortic stenosis, severe coarctation of the (inversion of viscera; liver on the left, stomach on the right), or aorta, interruption of the aortic arch, and hypoplastic left heart ambiguous (indeterminate visceral position). Abnormal arrange- syndrome. Prostaglandin E infusion maintains ductal patency ments or sidedness of the abdominal viscera, heart, and lungs 1 and ensures adequate systemic blood fl ow until either surgical suggests a high likelihood of complex cardiovascular pathology. or transcatheter intervention is performed in the fi rst few days Th e atrial situs, atrioventricular connections, ventricular looping of life to relieve the systemic outfl ow tract obstruction. Often, (referring to the position of the ventricles as a result of the direc- inotropic and/or mechanical ventilatory support is necessary. tion of bending of the straight heart tube in early development), Many of these infants also have signifi cantly increased pulmo- ventriculoarterial connections, and relationship between the . . nary blood fl ow with a high Qp : Qs ratio, requiring diuretic great vessels are then delineated. Finally, any associated therapy and manipulation of the systemic and pulmonary vas- malformations are described, including number and size of cular resistances to control blood fl ow. septal defects if present, valvar and/or great vessel abnormali- ties, and so on. Whereas many types of congenital defects fall Obstruction to Pulmonary Blood Flow neatly into this classifi cation scheme, others, such as heterotaxy Lesions with pulmonary outfl ow tract obstruction include syndromes (a condition associated with malposition of the heart those with ductal-dependent pulmonary blood fl ow. Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum and critical pulmonary ventricular noncompaction37-39 and arrhythmogenic right ven- valve stenosis are defects that rely on patency of the ductus tricular dysplasia.40 Secondary forms of cardiomyopathies are arteriosus for pulmonary blood fl ow. Th ese infants may also those associated with neuromuscular disorders such as Duch- require prostaglandin E infusions to manage their cyanosis enne
