A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


cardiomyopathies are arteriosus for pulmonary blood fl ow. Th ese infants may also those associated with neuromuscular disorders such as Duch- require prostaglandin E infusions to manage their cyanosis enne muscular dystrophy, glycogen storage diseases (i.e., Pompe 1 until the pulmonary outfl ow tract obstruction is relieved or disease), hemochromatosis or iron overload, and mitochondrial bypassed. disorders. In addition, chemotherapeutic agents such as anthra- cyclines may result in dilated cardiomyopathies.41 It is important Parallel Circulation to understand the basic hemodynamic processes behind the In the neonate with d-transposition of the great arteries the myocardial disease and implications for acute and chronic pulmonary and systemic circulations operate in parallel rather management. than the normal confi guration in series. In this condition, deox- Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is characterized by ygenated blood from the right ventricle is ejected into the aorta ventricular hypertrophy without identifi able hemodynamic eti- and the left ventricle is in subpulmonary position ejecting oxy- ology resulting in increased myocardial thickness. Th is is one of genated blood into the lungs. Neonates with this lesion depend the most common forms, accounting for nearly 40% of cardio- on mixing of blood at the atrial, ventricular, or ductal levels. myopathies in children.42-45 Th e condition represents a hetero- Although an infusion of prostaglandin E can maintain ductal 1 genous group of disorders, with the majority of the identifi ed patency, many neonates benefi t from a balloon atrial septostomy genetic defects exhibiting autosomal dominant inheritance pat- shortly after birth to create or enlarge an existing restrictive terns.46,47 Th e mutations typically involve genes that encode sar- interatrial communication and optimize mixing. Th is is because comeric proteins. Th is type of cardiac muscle disease is the most mixing at the atrial level is much more eff ective than either the common cause of sudden cardiac death (SCD) in athletes, with ventricular or ductal levels. an overall incidence estimated to be approximately 1% per year, Single-Ventricle Lesions with children and young adults aff ected most frequently.48,49 Th is category is the most heterogeneous group, consisting of Most children aff ected by HCM do not have left ventricular defects associated with atrioventricular valve atresia (i.e., tricus- outfl ow tract obstruction (nonobstructive cardiomyopathy). It pid atresia), heterotaxy syndromes, and many others.32 In some is unclear if the remaining minority with hypertrophic obstruc- tive cardiomyopathy (HOCM), previously known as idiopathic cases, both atria empty into a
