A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


atresia), heterotaxy syndromes, and many others.32 In some is unclear if the remaining minority with hypertrophic obstruc- tive cardiomyopathy (HOCM), previously known as idiopathic cases, both atria empty into a dominant ventricular chamber hypertrophic subaortic stenosis (IHSS), are at an increased risk (i.e., double-inlet left ventricle); and although a second rudimen- tary ventricle is typically present, the physiology is that of a of SCD as compared with children without obstruction.44 single ventricle or univentricular heart. Other cardiac malfor- Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may also involve the right mations with two distinct ventricles (i.e., unbalanced atrioven- ventricle. tricular septal defect) may also be considered in the functional Th e diagnosis of HCM begins with a history and physical single-ventricle category because of associated defects that may examination. Most children are identifi ed upon evaluation of a preclude a biventricular repair. A common feature among these heart murmur, syncope, palpitations, or chest pain. Occasion- lesions is complete mixing of the systemic and pulmonary ally, an abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG) leads to referral. An venous blood at the atrial or ventricular level. Another frequent accurate family history is essential. A prominent apical impulse fi nding is aortic or pulmonary outfl ow tract obstruction. Th ese is often present. Auscultation may reveal a systolic ejection children require careful delineation of their anatomy because outfl ow murmur that becomes louder with maneuvers that each child represents a unique challenge to the practitioner. An decrease preload or afterload (standing, Valsalva maneuver) or important goal in single-ventricle management involves optimi- increase contractility. Th e murmur decreases in intensity with zation of the balance between the pulmonary and systemic cir- squatting and isometric handgrip. A mitral regurgitant murmur culations early in life. Th is relates to the fact that a low pulmonary may also be present. An ECG will meet criteria for left ventricu- vascular resistance is an essential prerequisite for later palliative lar hypertrophy in most children (Fig. 14-1). In some, the ECG strategies and favorable outcomes. Th ese considerations are also fi ndings may be striking (Fig. 14-2). Echocardiography demon- relevant in the anesthetic management of these children during strating a hypertrophied nondilated left ventricle is diagnostic noncardiac surgery.30,33,34 (Video Clip 14-4).49 In many children, the hypertrophy may be asymmetrical (Video Clip 14-5). Echocardiography is the Intrinsic Myocardial Disorders primary imaging modality for long-term assessment of wall Children with primary cardiomyopathies or other forms of thickness, ventricular dimensions, presence
