A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


asymmetrical (Video Clip 14-5). Echocardiography is the Intrinsic Myocardial Disorders primary imaging modality for long-term assessment of wall Children with primary cardiomyopathies or other forms of thickness, ventricular dimensions, presence and severity of acquired heart disease such as myocarditis are characterized as obstruction, systolic and diastolic function, valve competence, having heart muscle disease (see later). Th ey frequently have and response to therapy. Other diagnostic approaches such as impaired ventricular function, either systolic or diastolic, and cardiac catheterization and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) benefi t from therapies tailored to their particular disease process. may add helpful information in some cases. Th e care of children with HCM includes maintenance of Acquired Heart Disease adequate preload, particularly in those with dynamic obstruc- tion. Diuretics are generally not indicated and will often worsen Cardiomyopathies the hemodynamic state by reducing left ventricular volume and Th e term cardiomyopathy usually refers to diseases of the myo- increasing the outfl ow obstruction. Drugs that augment myo- cardium associated with cardiac dysfunction.35,36 Th ese have cardial contractility (inotropic agents, calcium infusions) are not been classifi ed into primary and secondary forms. Th e most well tolerated. Patients usually undergo continuous ECG moni- common types in children are hypertrophic, dilated or conges- toring (Holter recording) and exercise testing for risk stratifi ca- tive, and restrictive cardiomyopathies. Other forms include left tion.50 β blockers and calcium-channel blockers are the primary 295 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-1. ECG in adolescent female with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy demonstrating left ventricular hypertrophy (deep S wave in V 1 and tall R waves over the left precordial leads). There is ST-segment depression and T-wave inversion over the left precordial leads related to repolarization changes associated with left ventricular hypertrophy, also known as a “strain” pattern. Reciprocal ST-segment elevation is noted over the right precordial leads. I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-2. Tracing in a patient with Pompe disease, a severe form of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy displaying dramatic right and left ventricular voltages, as well as ST-segment and T-wave abnormalities. The recording is displayed at full standard (10 mm/mV, meaning that the ECG was not reduced in size to fi t on the paper) as are all other ECG tracings in this chapter
