A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


displayed at full standard (10 mm/mV, meaning that the ECG was not reduced in size to fi t on the paper) as are all other ECG tracings in this chapter for reference. 296 14 agents for outpatient drug therapy.51 Long-term treatment is individualized and based on the degree of hypertrophy, presence of ventricular ectopy, symptomatology (including syncope and congestive heart failure), family history, and genetic mutation analysis when available. Th erapies range widely and include longitudinal observation with medical management of heart failure and arrhythmias, implantation of cardioverter-defi brilla- tors, surgical myotomy/myectomy, transcatheter alcohol septal ablation, and cardiac transplantation. Patients with HCM are usually restricted from participating in competitive sports activities.50 Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), also known as congestive cardiomyopathy, is characterized by thinning of the left ven- tricular myocardium, dilation of the ventricular cavity, and impaired systolic function.52-54 Th ere is a broader range of etiologies than with HCM, ranging from genetic/familial forms with multiple types of inheritance patterns to those caused by infections (adenovirus, coxsackievirus, human immunodefi - ciency virus55), metabolic derangements (thyroid disorders, mitochondrial disorders, carnitine defi ciency), toxic exposures A (anthracyclines), and degenerative disorders (Becker and Du- chenne muscular dystrophy).56,57 Chronic tachyarrhythmias can also lead to DCM that may or may not improve once the rhythm disturbance is controlled.58-60 Most children with DCM present with signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure (tachypnea, tachycardia, gallop rhythm, diminished pulses, hepatomegaly). Th e chest radio- graph typically demonstrates cardiomegaly, pulmonary vascular congestion, and, in some cases, atelectasis (Fig. 14-3). An ECG may identify the likely cause of the cardiac dysfunction in those with cardiomyopathy secondary to rhythm disorders or anoma- lous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary root. Th e echocardiogram is essential for diagnosis and characteristi- cally demonstrates a dilated left ventricle and systolic functional impairment (reduced shortening fraction and ejection fraction) (Video Clip 14-6).61 Th erapy in the short term is supportive and aimed at stabilization by controlling congestive heart failure and ventricular dysfunction. Management may include inotropic support (including phosphodiesterase inhibition) and mechani- cal ventilation. Unlike children with HCM, those with DCM have a volume-loaded, poorly contractile ventricle(s); therefore, gentle diuresis is benefi cial. Th e infusion of large fl uid boluses B might be poorly tolerated and result in hemodynamic decom- pensation and cardiovascular collapse. Th e outcome of children with dilated cardiomyopathy is variable. In most, recovery of left Figure 14-3.
