A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


might be poorly tolerated and result in hemodynamic decom- pensation and cardiovascular collapse. Th e outcome of children with dilated cardiomyopathy is variable. In most, recovery of left Figure 14-3. Chest radiographs in a young child with dilated ventricular systolic function occurs; however, others eventually cardiomyopathy in the posteroanterior (A) and lateral (B) projec- require cardiac transplantation.62 In a subset of children with tions demonstrating moderate to severe cardiomegaly and severe disease, mechanical circulatory support may be neces- pulmonary vascular congestion. The lateral fi lm shows the heart sary as a bridge to recovery or cardiac transplantation (Fig. 14-4, bulging anteriorly against the sternum. see Chapter 19).63-65 Once initial stabilization is achieved, the treatment strategy typically switches to β blockade and afterload reduction with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) is the least common of syncopal or near sudden death event. Th e physical examination the major subsets of cardiomyopathies (5%) and portends a may demonstrate hepatomegaly, peripheral edema, and worse prognosis when it presents during childhood (survival ascites. <50% at 2 years from diagnosis).66-71 Th e disorder is character- Th e echocardiographic hallmark of RCM is that of severe ized by diastolic dysfunction related to a marked increase in atrial dilation (due to elevated atrial pressures) associated with myocardial stiff ness resulting in impaired ventricular fi lling. normal- to small-sized ventricles (Video Clip 14-7). Th e marked Most cases are thought to be idiopathic. Th e presenting symp- diastolic dysfunction leads to increased end-diastolic pressures, toms are generally nonspecifi c and primarily relate to the respi- left atrial hypertension, and secondary pulmonary hyper- ratory system. Occasionally the diagnosis is made following a tension. Children with RCM are prone to thromboembolic 297 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children Flow probe Inlet cannula Pump A B Figure 14-4. Mechanical circulatory assist devices. A, Chest radiograph in a child with end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy after placement of a MicroMed/DeBakey Child ventricular assist device for circulatory support while awaiting cardiac transplantation. This miniaturized device includes a titanium pump, inlet cannula (placed in the left ventricle), percutaneous cable, fl ow probe and outfl ow graft (placed in the aorta, not radiopaque). B, The Berlin Heart ventricular assist device. This device allows for paracorporeal placement and circulatory support in infants and small children. Although not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the device has been used under specifi c guidelines and is
