A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


placement and circulatory support in infants and small children. Although not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the device has been used under specifi c guidelines and is available in several European countries. complications, and anticoagulation therapy is frequently recom- myocyte damage in myocardial infl ammatory diseases is quite mended. Th is is an important consideration during periopera- complex. tive care as adjustments in the anticoagulation regimen may be Th e overall incidence of myocarditis is not known because it necessary. Atrial and ventricular tachyarrhythmias may also is frequently underdiagnosed, going unrecognized as a nonspe- occur. Optimal medical treatment is controversial because no cifi c viral syndrome. A large 10-year population-based study on specifi c agents or strategies have been shown to signifi cantly cardiomyopathy found an annual incidence of 1.24 per 100,000 alter outcomes.71 Similar to children with HCM, diuretics often children younger than 10 years of age, only a fraction of which cause a decrease in the needed preload with detrimental eff ects represented those with myocarditis.77 Th e diagnosis is made on hemodynamics. Inotropic agents are not benefi cial because utilizing clinical history, physical examination, and imaging systolic function is typically preserved and the arrhythmogenic modalities. A child with new-onset congestive heart failure or properties of inotropic drugs can induce a terminal event. In many ventricular arrhythmias without evidence of structural heart centers cardiac transplantation has been eff ectively utilized.72,73 disease should be considered to have myocarditis until proven otherwise. An ECG will typically demonstrate low-voltage QRS Myocarditis complexes with tachycardia, sometimes ventricular in origin. Myocarditis is defi ned as infl ammation of the myocardium, Chest radiography often shows cardiomegaly with pulmonary often associated with necrosis and myocyte degeneration. In the vascular congestion (Fig. 14-5). Echocardiography reveals United States it is most often caused by a viral infection. Over dilated ventricles with impaired systolic function, similar to the past 20 years the spectrum of viral pathogens causing myo- dilated cardiomyopathy, and is useful in the exclusion of alterna- carditis has changed, such that adenovirus, enteroviruses (i.e., tive diagnoses, such as pericardial eff usion or anomalous origin coxsackievirus B), and parvovirus have become the most of a coronary artery, which can present in a similar manner. frequent causes of fulminant disease.74-76 Th e pathogenesis of Myocarditis is generally a clinical diagnosis, because defi nitive 298 14 Rheumatic fever results from infection by particular strains of group
