A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


frequent causes of fulminant disease.74-76 Th e pathogenesis of Myocarditis is generally a clinical diagnosis, because defi nitive 298 14 Rheumatic fever results from infection by particular strains of group A β-hemolytic Streptococcus or Streptococcus pyogenes. Both cellular and humoral immune responses to the bacterial antigens cross react with native tissues to result in a multisys- temic infl ammatory disorder. Th e incubation period for most strains of group A β-hemolytic Streptococcus is typically 3 to 5 days, although some children will present with a more remote history of pharyngitis. Th e diagnosis of rheumatic fever is made clinically based on the modifi ed Jones criteria.96 Major criteria include carditis, polyarthritis, chorea, subcutaneous nodules, and erythema marginatum. Evidence of a prior streptococcal infection along with two major or one major and two minor criteria are required to make the diagnosis in children without prior history of rheumatic fever or echocardiographic evidence of typical valvular involvement. Fever and arthritis are common symptoms. Th e polyarthritis has a migratory pattern, typically aff ecting large joints. Cardiac involvement or carditis occurs in nearly 50% of children with their fi rst attack of rheumatic fever. Rheumatic heart disease represents a sequela of the Figure 14-5. Chest radiograph in a child with acute myocarditis. acute process, aff ecting the mitral and aortic valves most Note the severe cardiomegaly and increased pulmonary vascularity. frequently. Primary prevention of rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease begins with prompt recognition and appropriate treat- ment of the initial streptococcal infection.97,98 Secondary pre- confi rmation requires the analysis of tissue obtained through vention, with ongoing therapy in individuals with a known myocardial biopsy either in the catheterization laboratory or the history of rheumatic fever, has been shown to be extremely operating room (rarely performed).78 eff ective at preventing recurrent attacks. Although there is some Many children with myocarditis have subclinical or mild debate regarding the optimal regimen, intramuscular injections clinical disease, whereas others progress to overt heart failure of benzathine penicillin every 3 to 4 weeks appear to be most and/or arrhythmias. Among children with overt heart failure, effi cacious.99 approximately one third will regain full ventricular function, one Finally, in a subset of children with severe cardiac involve- third will recover but continue to demonstrate impaired systolic ment, elective or emergent surgery plays an important role.100 function, and one third will require cardiac transplantation.79,80 Valvular disease, rather than global myocarditis,
