A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


recover but continue to demonstrate impaired systolic ment, elective or emergent surgery plays an important role.100 function, and one third will require cardiac transplantation.79,80 Valvular disease, rather than global myocarditis, is often the A subset of children, not all of whom initially manifest severe cause of congestive heart failure symptoms; and medical man- symptoms in the acute period, will progress to develop DCM. agement is, therefore, limited in effi cacy. When possible, valve Although no specifi c therapies have been identifi ed to directly repair rather than replacement is preferred. treat the myocardial injury, a variety of strategies have been employed.81-84 In the past, aggressive inotropic support was used Infective Endocarditis to maintain cardiac output, perfuse vital organs, and prevent Children with structural or acquired heart disease are at risk for metabolic complications. However, increasing inotropy con- developing infective endocarditis.101,102 Th e risk varies from neg- comitantly increases myocardial oxygen demand and can have ligible to signifi cant depending on a number of factors but to a detrimental eff ects. Th e paradigm has therefore shifted toward great extent is based on the nature of the cardiac condition. Th e diuresis and gentle inotropic support, often with agents such as infection results from deposition of bacteria or other pathogens phosphodiesterase inhibitors (milrinone), to improve myocar- on tissues in areas of abnormal or turbulent blood fl ow. Th e dial performance without placing a large burden on an already diagnosis of endocarditis is made clinically by applying the failing heart.81 Rhythm disturbances should be treated appropri- modifi ed Duke criteria.103, 104 Major criteria include demonstra- ately. Th erapy with immune modulation or suppression with tion of microorganisms and evidence of pathologic lesions. Th e intravenous immunoglobulin is the standard of care at many presentation of the disease may be acute or subacute. New or centers.80,85-87 Mechanical circulatory support may also be changing heart murmurs may indicate the development of required in fulminant disease.88-93 either regurgitation or obstruction on an aff ected valve. Among the physical fi ndings in children with endocarditis (part of the Rheumatic Fever and Rheumatic Heart Disease minor criteria) are signs of systemic embolization. Splinter hem- Acute rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease are leading orrhages (linear streaks under the nail beds), Janeway lesions causes of acquired cardiac disease in developing countries, with (painless macules on the hands or feet), Osler nodes (small, between 5 and 30 million
