A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


under the nail beds), Janeway lesions causes of acquired cardiac disease in developing countries, with (painless macules on the hands or feet), Osler nodes (small, between 5 and 30 million children and young adults aff ected painful nodules on the fi ngers), and Roth spots (retinal hemor- worldwide and a mortality rate of 1% to 10%.94 In the United rhages with clear centers) may be present. Infl ammatory States, the availability of antibiotics to treat streptococcal phar- markers, such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive yngitis has markedly reduced the incidence of this disease but protein levels, are typically elevated, albeit nonspecifi c. Micro- sporadic cases still occur.95 In children, the peak incidence scopic hematuria, as a manifestation of renal involvement, is occurs between 5 and 14 years of age. frequently seen. 299 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children Acute bacterial endocarditis is caused most commonly by disposition to the acquisition of endocarditis. Th e recently pub- Staphylococcus aureus.105,106 Such individuals typically present lished guidelines no longer recommend prophylaxis based with high fevers, chills, myalgias, fatigue, and lethargy and exclusively on an increased lifetime risk of endocarditis but sometimes are critically ill or in shock. Unlike in the adult popu- propose that antibiotic prophylaxis should be restricted to those lation in whom right-sided heart endocarditis occurs predomi- with the highest risk of an adverse outcome resulting from nantly in the context of intravenous drug abuse, both left- and endocarditis. Patients in this category include those with pros- right-sided endocarditis can occur in children with CHD.107 Fur- thetic cardiac valves, previous history of endocarditis, certain thermore, children with indwelling venous catheters have an congenital heart defects/post specifi c interventions, and cardiac expanded spectrum of pathogens known to cause acute endo- transplant recipients with valvular disease (Table 14-1).111 carditis, including coagulase-negative staphylococcal species or Endocarditis prophylaxis is recommended for these individu- other nonbacterial organisms. als when undergoing dental procedures that involve the gingival Subacute bacterial endocarditis (SBE), on the other hand, tissues or the periapical region of teeth or perforation of the oral often has a more indolent course and presentation. Children mucosa. Although a number of respiratory tract procedures are generally manifest low-grade fevers, malaise, anemia, and associated with transient bacteremia, no defi nitive data demon- fatigue. Most frequently the Streptococcus viridans group or strate a cause-and-eff ect relationship between these procedures Enterococcus species are the underlying pathogen. and
