A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


transient bacteremia, no defi nitive data demon- fatigue. Most frequently the Streptococcus viridans group or strate a cause-and-eff ect relationship between these procedures Enterococcus species are the underlying pathogen. and endocarditis. Consideration may be given for high-risk Initial evaluation of a child suspected of having bacterial patients undergoing invasive procedures of the respiratory tract endocarditis includes serial blood cultures drawn from separate that involve incision or biopsy of the mucosa. In contrast to sites before initiation of antimicrobial drug therapy. Th e tempo- prior guidelines, routine prophylactic administration of antibi- ral frequency of these cultures depends on the clinical scenario otics solely to prevent endocarditis is not recommended for and stability of the child. It is important to consider that even those undergoing genitourinary or gastrointestinal tract proce- with excellent blood culture techniques up to 20% of children dures. However, for specifi c clinical scenarios antibiotic prophy- with evidence of endocarditis are culture negative and require laxis may be considered in these patients. Transesophageal empirical treatment throughout. Transthoracic echocardiogra- echocardiography or routine endoscopy does not merit routine phy is routinely performed to evaluate for evidence of vegeta- prophylaxis.112 Prophylaxis is not considered necessary for tions or other abnormalities.108 While visualization of a routine hemodynamic cardiac catheterization with angiogra- vegetation establishes the diagnosis, a negative study does not phy; and although many practitioners administer routine anti- exclude the diagnosis, so that, depending on the clinical index biotics when transcatheter placement of an intracardiac device of suspicion, further imaging including transesophageal echo- is undertaken, there are presently insuffi cient data to support cardiography may be necessary (Video Clip 14-8).109 Th ese this practice.113 imaging modalities are also particularly helpful during follow-up. Parenteral antibiotics are initiated after blood cultures have been obtained. Broad-spectrum agents are used initially, and Table 14-1. Cardiac Conditions Associated with the Highest once a pathogen has been identifi ed the antibiotic regimen is Risk of Adverse Outcome from Endocarditis narrowed.101 Daily blood cultures are obtained until three con- • Prosthetic cardiac valve secutive cultures remain sterile. A prolonged course of therapy • Previous infective endocarditis is required in all children. • Congenital heart disease (CHD)* In addition to medical therapy, some children require surgical intervention. Failure of medical therapy (inability to clear the Unrepaired cyanotic CHD, including palliative shunts and bacteremia), abscess formation, refractory heart failure, or conduits serious embolic phenomenon are all indications for surgical Completely repaired congenital
