A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


(inability to clear the Unrepaired cyanotic CHD, including palliative shunts and bacteremia), abscess formation, refractory heart failure, or conduits serious embolic phenomenon are all indications for surgical Completely repaired congenital heart defect with prosthetic intervention. Typically, the procedures involve resection of a material or device, whether placed by surgery or by catheter vegetation, tissue debridement, and/or repair of consequent intervention, during the fi rst 6 months after the procedure† cardiac abnormalities. Th ese children should subsequently Repaired CHD with residual defects at the site or adjacent to receive antibiotic prophylaxis for endocarditis prior to at-risk the site of a prosthetic patch or prosthetic device (which procedures (see later). inhibit endothelialization) A high level of suspicion for endocarditis must be maintained • Cardiac transplantation recipients who develop cardiac when evaluating a child with known heart disease and either valvulopathy persistent bacteremia (or fungemia) or fever of unknown origin. *Except for the conditions listed above, antibiotic prophylaxis is no Th e same holds true for any child with foreign material in the longer recommended for any other form of CHD. heart or vascular tissue, such as indwelling central venous cath- †Prophylaxis is recommended because endothelialization of prosthetic eters, pacemaker/defi brillators, and closure devices.110 material occurs within 6 months after the procedure. Adapted with permission from Wilson W, Taubert KA, Gewitz M, et al Endocarditis Prophylaxis (eds): Prevention of Infective Endocarditis: Guidelines from the American Transient bacteremia may result from disruption of mucous Heart Association. A Guideline from the American Heart Association membranes or infected tissue during dental, surgical, or instru- Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki Disease Committee, mentation procedures, causing seeding of the bloodstream with Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young, and the Council on Clinical Cardiology, Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, bacteria. In children with normal intracardiac anatomy, the risk and the Quality of Care and Outcomes Research Interdisciplinary for developing endocarditis from transient bacteremia is Working Group. Circulation 2007; 116:1736-1754. extremely low. However, certain cardiac conditions have a pre- 300 14 Th e guidelines are to administer antibiotic prophylaxis 30 to 60 minutes preceding the procedure to achieve adequate tissue levels before the time of potential bacteremia (Table 14-2).111 Th e standard prophylactic regimen for children is for oral amox- icillin, 50 mg/kg dose (maximum of 2 g). For those allergic to penicillins or ampicillin the following oral drug choices are available: cephalexin, clindamycin, azithromycin, or clarithro- mycin.
