A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


oral amox- icillin, 50 mg/kg dose (maximum of 2 g). For those allergic to penicillins or ampicillin the following oral drug choices are available: cephalexin, clindamycin, azithromycin, or clarithro- mycin. In children unable to take oral medication, options include ampicillin, cefazolin, or ceftriaxone via the intravenous or intramuscular routes. In those allergic to penicillins or ampi- cillin and unable to take oral medications, cefazolin, ceftriaxone, or clindamycin may be used. Kawasaki Disease Figure 14-6. MR image in the axial plane at the level of the great Kawasaki disease was fi rst described in 1967 as mucocutaneous vessels in a child with Kawasaki disease demonstrating a large lymph node syndrome.114 It represents a fairly common and fusiform aneurysm involving the left main coronary artery (arrow). potentially fatal form of systemic vasculitis.115-117 Th e etiology of Kawasaki disease remains unknown.118 It occurs predominantly in infants and young children, most frequently in those of Asian origin, with the lowest incidence in whites. Th e disease has a Nonspecifi c fi ndings may include irritability, hydrops of the predilection for the coronary arteries and may lead to dilation gallbladder, sterile pyuria, arthritis, and aseptic meningitis. and aneurysm formation.119,120 Acute-phase reactants and thrombocytosis are usually Th e diagnosis rests on clinical features, because there are no present. specifi c laboratory tests for Kawasaki disease. To meet criteria, Intravenous gamma globulin is usually administered during a child must have persisting fevers and at least four of the fol- the acute phase of the disease, in addition to high doses of lowing fi ndings121,122: aspirin, which are then decreased to lower doses for several ● Polymorphous exanthem months. Th e presence of coronary artery aneurysms is consid- ● Peripheral extremity changes (including erythema, desqua- ered diagnostic of Kawasaki disease (Fig. 14-6). Coronary artery mation, and edema of the hands or feet) aneurysms or ectasia occur in 15% to 25% of untreated children ● Bilateral nonexudative conjunctivitis and less than 5% of those who receive intravenous gamma glob- ● Cervical lymphadenopathy (often unilateral) ulin within the fi rst 10 days of their illness.122 In children with ● Oral changes (strawberry tongue; red, dry, or cracked coronary artery aneurysms low-dose aspirin therapy is contin- lips) ued, in some cases in combination with anticoagulants or Table 14-2. American Heart Association Guidelines for the Prevention of Infective Endocarditis: Antibiotic Regimens Dose (single dose 30 to 60 min before procedure) Situation Antibiotic
