A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


in combination with anticoagulants or Table 14-2. American Heart Association Guidelines for the Prevention of Infective Endocarditis: Antibiotic Regimens Dose (single dose 30 to 60 min before procedure) Situation Antibiotic Children** Adults • Able to take oral medication Amoxicillin 50 mg/kg 2 g • Unable to take oral medication Ampicillin 50 mg/kg IM or IV 2 g IM or IV or Cefazolin or ceftriaxone 50 mg/kg IM or IV 1 g IM or IV • Allergic to penicillins or ampicillin and able Cephalexin*† 50 mg/kg 2 g to take oral medication or Clindamycin 20 mg/kg 600 mg or Azithromycin or clarithromycin 15 mg/kg 500 mg • Allergic to penicillins or ampicillin and Cefazolin or ceftriaxone† 50 mg/kg IM or IV 1 g IM or IV unable to take oral medication or Clindamycin 20 mg/kg IM or IV 600 mg IM or IV IM, intramuscular; IV, intravenous. **Total pediatric dose not to exceed adult dose. *Or other fi rst- or second-generation oral cephalosporin in equivalent pediatric or adult dosage. †Cephalosporins should not be used in an individual with a history of anaphylaxis, angioedema, or urticaria with penicillins or ampicillin. Adapted with permission from Wilson W, Taubert KA, Gewitz M, et al (eds): Prevention of Infective Endocarditis: Guidelines from the American Heart Association. A Guideline From the American Heart Association Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki Disease Committee, Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young, and the Council on Clinical Cardiology, Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, and the Quality of Care and Outcomes Research Interdisciplinary Working Group. Circulation 2007; 116:1736-1754. 301 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children antiplatelet drugs.123 Myocardial ischemia and infarction, Th e defi nition of heart failure has evolved over the years. It although infrequent, are important potential complications in is considered not only a pump failure but also a circulatory children with coronary artery involvement.120,124 Anesthetic care failure involving neurohumoral aspects of the circulation.145 A thus requires careful considerations regarding myocardial number of conditions may ultimately compromise the ability to oxygen demand and supply; on rare occasion coronary revascu- generate an adequate cardiac output to meet the systemic cir- larization may be necessary. culatory demands. It is important to recognize that heart failure does not necessarily imply impairment of ventricular systolic Cardiac Tumors function but that diastolic heart failure is now an increasingly In children, cardiac tumors in general are extremely rare, and recognized clinical entity.
