A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


imply impairment of ventricular systolic Cardiac Tumors function but that diastolic heart failure is now an increasingly In children, cardiac tumors in general are extremely rare, and recognized clinical entity. thus the natural history and optimal treatment strategies are often determined from limited case series.125-127 Unlike adults, Etiology and Clinical Features in whom atrial myxomas represent more than 90% of cardiac Causes of heart failure diff er with age. In the perinatal period, tumors, in children they tend to be either rhabdomyomas cardiac dysfunction is typically related to birth asphyxia or or fi bromas.128 Less common types include hemangiomas, sepsis or may represent an early presentation of CHD. Th e myxomas (Video Clip 14-9), Purkinje cell tumors, and terato- neonate with heart failure typically presents with clinical signs mas. Whereas in adults, most tumors are found in the left of a low-cardiac output state. Causes include left-sided outfl ow atrium, cardiac tumors in children occur in all four cardiac obstruction (as in aortic stenosis, aortic coarctation, hypoplastic chambers. Malignant primary tumors are extremely rare, and left heart syndrome), severe valve regurgitation (as seen in data on their outcomes are even more limited. Ebstein anomaly), or absent pulmonary valve syndrome. Rhabdomyomas are the most common primary cardiac During the fi rst year of life most cases of heart failure are tumors in children. Th ey often involve the ventricular septum caused by structural heart disease. Other causes of heart and left ventricle and are multiple in the majority of cases.129 failure are cardiomyopathies secondary to inborn errors of Although they are considered benign, children may present with metabolism or acute events such as myocarditis. In infants cardiomegaly, congestive heart failure, arrhythmias, or sudden with heart failure, tachypnea, dyspnea, tachycardia, as well as death. Th e signifi cance of a rhabdomyoma is determined largely feeding diffi culties and failure to thrive are prominent symp- by its size and any obstruction it may cause. Many tumors toms.146 Th e physical examination is characterized by grunting regress over time or completely resolve; thus, surgery is respirations, rales, intercostal retractions, a gallop rhythm, and not indicated unless symptoms are present.130,131 Many children hepatosplenomegaly. Frequently, a mitral regurgitant murmur is with cardiac rhabdomyomas have associated tuberous present. sclerosis.132,133 Beyond the fi rst year of life, heart failure is either a conse- Cardiac fi bromas are the second most common type of pedi- quence of previous surgical
