A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


the focus of several textbooks.140,141 It is important to Newer agents that have received increasing attention in the emphasize that pediatric heart failure results from markedly management of pediatric heart failure include nesiritide (a diff erent causes than those reported in adults.142 Understanding recombinant form of human B-type natriuretic peptide)154-156 the cellular basis of heart failure in children, compensatory and carvedilol (a third-generation β blocker).157-159 For all ages, mechanisms, and therapeutic advances in this area are now at nutrition requires particular attention, because the work of the forefront of pediatric medicine.139-141,143,144 Th e discussion breathing causes high caloric demands in the setting of fl uid that follows highlights a few of the key concepts as they relate restriction and often inadequate intake; hypercaloric nutrition to anesthetic practice. through an enteral feeding tube may be required. 302 14 Syndromes, Associations, and Systemic 1 in 3500 newborns). Most patients exhibit microcephaly, delayed psychomotor development, and mental retardation.170 Disorders: Cardiovascular Disease and Characteristic craniofacial features include micrognathia or ret- Anesthetic Implications rognathia, microstomia, malformed ears, and microphthal- mia.171 Th ese abnormalities may aff ect airway management.172,173 A wide variety of disorders including those resulting from chro- Skeletal anomalies include clenched fi ngers and severe growth mosomal abnormalities, single-gene defects, gene deletion syn- retardation. Neurologic abnormalities are characterized by dromes, as well as known associations (nonrandom occurrence developmental delay, hypotonia, and central nervous system of defects), and teratogenic exposure may manifest as cardiovas- malformations. Th e high mortality rate in children with trisomy cular disease. Th e coexistence of frequently associated multiple 18 is usually related to the presence of cardiac and renal prob- organ system comorbidities with cardiovascular disease pres- lems, feeding diffi culties, sepsis, and apnea caused by neurologic ents a number of challenges to the anesthesia care provider. abnormalities. Cardiovascular disease is present in most children and con- Chromosomal Syndromes sists primarily of ventricular septal defects and polyvalvular disease.174,175 Implications for anesthetic care include the high Down Syndrome incidence of congestive heart failure and aspiration pneumo- Down syndrome is the most frequent chromosomal aberration, nia.173 Th ese children may require interventions to address asso- occurring with a frequency of 1 in 800 living births. Th e inci- ciated gastrointestinal or genitourinary anomalies. dence increases sharply with advanced maternal age. In most children, it is the result of trisomy 21 but it may occur from bal- Trisomy 13 anced or unbalanced translocations
