A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


anomalies. dence increases sharply with advanced maternal age. In most children, it is the result of trisomy 21 but it may occur from bal- Trisomy 13 anced or unbalanced translocations of chromosome 21 or mosa- Trisomy 13, an uncommon autosomal trisomy, is also known as icism. Th e phenotypes are indistinguishable. In general, these Patau syndrome. Th e incidence of this chromosomal disorder children are typically smaller than normal for age and craniofa- ranges from 1 in 5,000 to 12,000 live births. Major features of cial features include microbrachycephaly, short neck, oblique this syndrome include cleft lip and palate, holoprosencephaly, palpebral fi ssures, epicanthal folds, Brushfi eld’s spots, small low- polydactyly, rocker-bottom feet, microphthalmia, microcephaly, set ears, macroglossia, and microdontia with fused teeth. Man- and severe mental retardation.176,177 Nearly all children have dibular hypoplasia and a broad fl at nose are typical. A narrow associated cardiovascular defects that include patent ductus nasopharynx with hypertrophic lymphatic tissue (tonsils, ade- arteriosus, septal defects, valve abnormalities, and dextrocar- noids), in combination with generalized hypotonia, frequently dia.175 Th e overall prognosis for children with this syndrome is leads to sleep apnea. Other conditions that aff ect these children extremely poor. include mental retardation, cervical spine disorders with verte- bral and ligamentous instability, thyroid disease, leukemia, Turner Syndrome obesity, subglottic stenosis,160 and gastrointestinal problems. Turner syndrome is a genetic disorder (estimated incidence of Airway issues include the potential for upper airway obstruc- 1 in 5,000 liveborn female infants) characterized by partial or tion due to the presence of a prominent tongue, postextubation complete X chromosome monosomy.178 Th ere is a high degree stridor,161 and cervical spine injury.162-164 Vascular access can be of spontaneous abortion among aff ected fetuses. Features of this diffi cult. Subjectively, there is an impression that these children syndrome include webbed neck, low-set ears, multiple pig- have small vessel sizes, vascular hyperreactivity, and fragile mented nevi and micrognathia, lymphedema, short stature, and tissue consistency and may suff er from more complications after ovarian failure.179 Systemic manifestations include cardiac arterial cannulation. defects (notably aortic coarctation and bicuspid aortic valve), Cardiovascular defects occur in 40% to 50% of children, so it hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, renal anomalies, liver has been recommended that all children undergo screening for disease, and infl ammatory bowel disease. Obesity is common in CHD in early infancy.165,166 Th e most common lesions include older children as well as a high incidence of
