A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


for disease, and infl ammatory bowel disease. Obesity is common in CHD in early infancy.165,166 Th e most common lesions include older children as well as a high incidence of endocrinologic atrioventricular septal defects (Video Clip 14-10), ventricular abnormalities such as hypothyroidism and diabetes.178,180 Renal septal defects, tetralogy of Fallot, and patent ductus arteriosus. anomalies occur in up to one third of children. Pathology after repair of atrioventricular septal defects is most often related to mitral regurgitation, left ventricular outfl ow Gene Deletion Syndromes tract obstruction, residual intracardiac shunts, and, rarely, mitral Williams Syndrome stenosis. Bradycardia under anesthesia occurs commonly.167 Williams syndrome is a congenital disorder with an incidence Pulmonary hypertension resulting from either the cardiac of 1 in 20,000 live births. Th e genetic abnormality responsible pathology or from chronic hypoxemia secondary to upper for this syndrome in the majority of cases is a chromosomal airway obstruction should be considered in the management of deletion on the long arm of chromosome 7, altering the elastin these children.168 Reduced nitric oxide bioavailability has been gene.181,182 Th e absence of this gene is detected by fl uorescent reported, leading to endothelial cell dysfunction,169 possibly in-situ hybridization (FISH). Features of Williams syndrome explaining the increased pulmonary vascular reactivity in these include characteristic elfi n facies, outgoing personality, endo- children with an early and higher incidence of pulmonary crine abnormalities (including hypercalcemia and hypothy- obstructive disease, even after corrective cardiac surgery. roidism), mental retardation, growth defi ciency, and altered Trisomy 18 neurodevelopment. Associated cardiovascular pathology Also known as Edwards syndrome, trisomy 18 is recognized as includes valvar and supravalvular aortic stenosis (Fig. 14-7) and the second most common chromosomal trisomy (incidence of coarctation of the aorta.183,184 Th e arteriopathy found in these 303 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children is overwhelmingly associated with the deletion, it should be considered in any child with a conotruncal anomaly, neonatal hypocalcemia, or any of the less common features when seen in association with dysmorphic facial features. Cardiac anomalies are often described as conotruncal anom- alies; however, outfl ow tract anomalies are also frequently seen.191 Th e remainder of the cardiac defects crosses an enor- Asc Ao mous spectrum, ranging from hypoplastic left ventricle to vas- cular rings. Only a minority of children with this chromosomal Ao V deletion have a normal cardiovascular system. Th e immune system is aff ected in a signifi cant
