A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


vas- cular rings. Only a minority of children with this chromosomal Ao V deletion have a normal cardiovascular system. Th e immune system is aff ected in a signifi cant number of children. As a con- sequence of thymic hypoplasia, children typically have dimin- ished T-cell numbers and function. Th e immunodefi ciency requires the use of irradiated blood products and strict aseptic precautions during vascular access. Neurodevelopmental fea- tures include primarily speech delay as well as attention-defi cit disorders. Psychiatric disorders are well described in these individuals.192 Single-Gene Defects Noonan Syndrome Noonan syndrome, an autosomal dominant syndrome, occurs Figure 14-7. Echocardiogram displaying the classic supravalvar with a frequency of 1 in 1,000 to 2,500 livebirths. It is character- aortic narrowing in a patient with Williams syndrome (arrows). Ao ized by distinctive dysmorphic features that include neck V, aortic valve; Asc Ao, ascending aorta. webbing, low-set ears, chest deformities, hypertelorism, and short stature.193 Some male children also have cryptorchidism. Th e diagnosis of Noonan syndrome depends primarily on clini- children may also involve the origin of the coronary arteries or cal features.194 In neonates, the facial features may be less appar- other systemic and pulmonary vessels. Diff use narrowing of the ent; however, generalized edema and excess nuchal folds may abdominal aorta may occur in association with renal artery be present as are seen in Turner syndrome. Th e facial features stenosis. are more diffi cult to detect in later adolescence and adulthood. Several reports in the literature have described unanticipated Th e disorder is associated with a high incidence of CHD events during anesthetic care in these children.185-187 Two condi- (~50%), with pulmonary valve dysplasia/stenosis being the most tions may result in increased anesthetic morbidity and the common.195 Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may develop during potential for mortality: coronary artery stenosis leading to myo- the fi rst few years of life (in 10% to 20% of patients).196 Clinical cardial ischemia and severe biventricular outfl ow tract obstruc- problems may also include developmental delay and bleeding tion. Because the extent of the disease in the aff ected individual diathesis (von Willebrand disease, factors XI and XII defi ciency, is variable and may have devastating implications, a thorough and thrombocytopenia).197 cardiac evaluation is advisable in all children.188 On occasion, Marfan Syndrome children may require further evaluation before undergoing Marfan syndrome is a multisystem disorder with variable anesthetic care. expression resulting from a mutation
