A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


advisable in all children.188 On occasion, Marfan Syndrome children may require further evaluation before undergoing Marfan syndrome is a multisystem disorder with variable anesthetic care. expression resulting from a mutation in the fi brillin gene, a con- Children with Williams syndrome may exhibit some degree nective tissue protein.198 It is estimated that about 1 in 10,000 of muscular weakness; thus, the cautious use and application of individuals in the United States is aff ected by this syndrome. muscle relaxants has been suggested.188 Associated neurodevel- Clinical manifestations typically involve the cardiovascular, skel- opmental delay, attention-defi cit disorder, and autistic behavior etal, and ocular systems.199,200 Cardiovascular pathology includes often requires adequate premedication. A high prevalence of mitral valve prolapse and regurgitation, ascending aortic dila- subclinical hypothyroidism has been reported in these chil- tion (Fig. 14-8), and main pulmonary artery dilatation. Dilata- dren.189 Renal manifestations include renovascular hyper- tion of the sinuses of Valsalva is found in 60% to 80% of adults. tension, reduced function, and hypercalcemia-induced Th e risk of aortic dissection rises considerably with increasing nephrocalcinosis. aortic size but may occur at any point in the course of the Chromosome 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome: DiGeorge and disease.201 Cardiac arrhythmias may be related to valvular heart Velocardiofacial Syndrome disease, cardiomyopathy, and/or congestive heart failure. Th e 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, with an estimated incidence of β-blocker therapy and aggressive blood pressure control has approximately 1 in 3,000, encompasses DiGeorge, conotruncal been the standard of care in patients with aortic root dilation202 face, and velocardiofacial syndromes. It is also known as CATCH and should be continued perioperatively. Aortic root replace- 22 syndrome: an acronym for cardiac defects, abnormal facies, ment in Marfan syndrome has been associated with a greater thymic hypoplasia, cleft palate, and hypocalcemia, all of which risk of re-dissection and recurrent aneurysm when compared are commonly present.190 Cardiac malformations, speech delay, with other patients who have undergone similar interventions.203 and immunodefi ciency are the most common features of the Th erefore, it is wise to maintain hemodynamics near baseline chromosome 22q deletion syndromes. Because no single feature values during anesthetic care even in the postoperative period. 304 14 of life. Esophageal atresia with tracheoesophageal fi stula is found in a large number of aff ected infants. Low birth weight (<1500 g) and associated cardiac pathology have been identifi ed to be independent predictors of mortality in infants undergoing surgery for esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fi
