A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


aff ected infants. Low birth weight (<1500 g) and associated cardiac pathology have been identifi ed to be independent predictors of mortality in infants undergoing surgery for esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fi stula (see Chapter 36). Th e presence of a ductal-dependent cardiac lesion further increases perioperative morbidity and mortality.209 Limb defects occur in most children and include absent or displaced thumbs, polydactyly, syndactyly, and forearm abnormalities. Th ese may impact vascular access and monitor placement. Renal defects are noted in approximately 50% of children. CHARGE Association CHARGE association is characterized by congenital anomalies that include coloboma, heart defects, choanal atresia, retarda- tion of growth and development, genitourinary problems, and ear abnormalities. Th e association is estimated to occur in approximately 1 in 10,000 to 12,000 live births. Th e etiology is unknown, but it has been suggested that defi ciency in migration of neural crest cells, defi ciency of mesodermal formation, or defective interaction between neural crest cells and mesoderm play a part in these defects of blastogenesis.210,211 Specifi c genetic abnormalities have also been identifi ed in some Figure 14-8. Dilated aortic root as displayed by MRI in a patient individuals.212,213 with Marfan syndrome. There is a marked discrepancy between the Cardiac defects occur in as many as 50% to 70% of children diameters of the ascending and descending aorta. and commonly include conotruncal and aortic arch anoma- lies.214 Retardation of growth and development is usually due to cardiac disease, nutritional problems, or growth hormone defi - ciency. Th e developmental delay often is associated with sensory After aortic root surgery some individuals may require chronic defi cits (vision and hearing loss). Most children have some anticoagulation therapy. Preoperative hospitalization may be degree of mental retardation. Anesthetic implications, in addi- necessary to adjust the anticoagulation regimen in anticipation tion to the cardiac defects, are focused around the airway.215 A of surgery. In emergency cases, infusion of coagulation factors retrospective review of 50 cases reported upper airway abnor- and other blood products may be required to off set the antico- malities in 56% of children apart from choanal atresia and cleft agulants. In addition to vascular pathology, children with Marfan lip and palate.216 syndrome have a predisposition for ventricular dilatation as well as abnormal ventricular function.204,205 Other Disorders Several factors can result in pulmonary disease in these chil- Tuberous Sclerosis dren.206 Chest wall deformities and progressive scoliosis can Tuberous sclerosis is
