A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


well as abnormal ventricular function.204,205 Other Disorders Several factors can result in pulmonary disease in these chil- Tuberous Sclerosis dren.206 Chest wall deformities and progressive scoliosis can Tuberous sclerosis is a genetic disease with an autosomal contribute to restrictive lung disease. In addition, it is thought dominant inheritance pattern and an incidence of approximately that the fi brillin defect may aff ect both lung development and 1 in 25,000 to 30,000 births.217 In a relatively large number of homeostasis impairing pulmonary function. Th e development children this can be attributed to spontaneous mutations. Th is of pneumothoraces is relatively common. systemic disease primarily presents as cutaneous and neuro- logic symptoms, but cardiac and renal lesions are frequent Associations fi ndings. VATER or VACTERL Association Th e presence of upper airway nodular tumors, fi bromas, or VACTERL association is an acronym given to describe a series papillomas in aff ected children may interfere with airway man- of nonrandom anomalies that include vertebral, anal, cardiovas- agement. Cardiac pathology is frequent and includes cardiac cular, tracheoesophageal, renal, and limb defects.207,208 Up to rhabdomyoma in 60% of children and coexisting CHD in 33% three fourths of children with VACTERL association have been of cases.218-220 Cardiac abnormalities with obstruction to fl ow, reported to have CHD. Th e most common lesions include ven- heart failure, arrhythmias, conduction defects, or preexcitation tricular septal defects, atrial septal defects, and tetralogy of may aff ect the selection of anesthetic agents. Preoperative evalu- Fallot. Complex pathology such as truncus arteriosus and trans- ation in most cases should include an ECG to exclude arrhyth- position of the great arteries occur less frequently. mia, conduction defects, or preexcitation.218 Blood pressure and Vertebral and tracheal anomalies can complicate airway man- renal function should also be assessed. Anticonvulsants should agement and regional anesthesia. Approximately 70% of chil- be optimized and continued until the morning of surgery. Gen- dren with VACTERL have vertebral anomalies usually consisting erally, baseline medical treatment should be resumed as soon as of hypoplastic vertebrae or hemivertebra. Th ese may predispose possible because seizures are the most common postoperative children to developing scoliosis. Anal atresia or imperforate complication.221 Th e presence of mental retardation may require anus is reported in about 55% of children. Th ese anomalies are the administration of agents such as midazolam or ketamine to usually noted at birth and often require surgery in the fi rst
