A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


about 55% of children. Th ese anomalies are the administration of agents such as midazolam or ketamine to usually noted at birth and often require surgery in the fi rst days facilitate parental separation. 305 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children Selected Vascular Anomalies and Their anomaly may be seen in the context of conotruncal malforma- tions. Th e diagnosis of an aberrant subclavian artery is made by Implications for Anesthetic Care most currently available imaging modalities. Implications of this anomaly include the following: Aberrant Subclavian Arteries ● Th e presence of an aberrant subclavian artery may infl uence An aberrant or anomalous subclavian artery usually arises from the location of placement of a systemic-to-pulmonary artery the descending aorta as a separate vessel distal to the “usual” last shunt. subclavian artery in a posterior location. In a left aortic arch the ● Th is anomaly should be considered in the selection of a site aberrant vessel is the right subclavian artery. In this anomaly the for arterial line placement if the need for transesophageal arrangement is as follows: the fi rst branch of the left aortic arch monitoring is also anticipated during surgery. Th e aberrant is the right carotid artery, followed by the left carotid and left vessel may be compressed along its retroesophageal course subclavian arteries. Th e aberrant right subclavian artery, rather by the imaging probe, resulting in inaccurate readings.223 It than arising proximally from the innominate artery as the fi rst may be wise, regardless of the site of arterial line placement, arch branch, originates distal to the last (left) subclavian artery to monitor the arm supplied by the anomalous vessel by as the fourth branch and courses behind the esophagus toward pulse oximetry or other methods during esophageal the right arm. Th is variant is one of the most common aortic instrumentation. arch anomalies. It is reported to occur in 0.4% to 2% of the ● On occasion, an aberrant subclavian artery may be part of a general population and may or may not be associated with CHD.222 Th ere is a high incidence of this anomaly in children vascular ring. ● Rarely, older children with a left aortic arch and aberrant with Down syndrome and an association with ventricular septal right subclavian artery and without the fi ndings of a com- defects and tetralogy of Fallot among other lesions. In a right
