A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


Down syndrome and an association with ventricular septal right subclavian artery and without the fi ndings of a com- defects and tetralogy of Fallot among other lesions. In a right plete vascular ring may complain of mild dysphagia (dyspha- aortic arch, the anomalous left subclavian artery originates gia lusorium). distal to the origin of the right subclavian artery (Fig. 14-9). Th is S S RCA LCA LCA RCA RSA RSA Ab LSA Ab LSA R L L R A I B I Figure 14-9. The MR images, as visualized anteriorly (A) and posteriorly (B), demonstrate a right aortic arch with an aberrant left subcla- vian artery (Ab LSA). The fi rst arch vessel is the left carotid artery (LCA), followed by the right carotid (RCA), and right subclavian artery (RSA). The Ab LSA is the most distal branch originating from the descending aorta and coursing toward the left arm. This vessel may be compressed by a transesophageal echocardiographic probe. 306 14 Persistent Left Superior Vena Cava to Coronary ● On occasion, an LSVC may drain to an unroofed coronary Sinus Communication sinus or directly into the left atrium, in which case a right- A persistent left superior vena cava (LSVC) is a form of anoma- to-left shunt is present. Th is may be identifi ed by injection lous systemic venous drainage identifi ed in 4.4% of children with of agitated saline into a left arm or left neck vein while CHD, most frequently those with septal defects.224 It represents performing an echocardiogram and may be associated a remnant of the left anterior cardinal vein that typically obliter- with systemic arterial desaturation. Th is constitutes a risk for ates during development. If it persists, it remains patent and paradoxical systemic embolization. drains into the right atrium via an enlarged coronary sinus. ● During cardiac surgery an enlarged coronary sinus Bilateral superior vena cavae can be present (Fig. 14-10), or the may interfere with the administration of retrograde car- right superior vena cava might be absent. In the presence of dioplegia. bilateral superior vena cavae the two vascular structures may ● It may confound placement of a pulmonary artery catheter communicate via an innominate or bridging vein. and cardiac output determinations. Implications of this anomaly include the following: ● In the absence of an innominate vein a catheter placed in the Evaluation of the Patient with a left arm or left internal
