A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


of this anomaly include the following: ● In the absence of an innominate vein a catheter placed in the Evaluation of the Patient with a left arm or left internal jugular vein and advanced into the central circulation may rest within the coronary sinus, a Cardiac Murmur potentially undesirable location in a small infant. On chest radiography an unusual course is identifi ed as the catheter Th e fi nding of an incidental murmur during the perioperative courses along the left side of the mediastinum and can period in many cases results in signifi cant distress to the child be mistaken for intracarotid, intrapleural, or mediastinal or family, may trigger additional diagnostic studies including locations. cardiology consultation, and has the potential to delay the ● An LVSC may be of relevance during venous cannulation for scheduled procedure when identifi ed preoperatively. Although cardiopulmonary bypass to ensure adequate venous drainage cardiac auscultation is a challenging skill that takes many years and optimal operating conditions. of practice to master,225 it is important for the practicing anes- ● Th e presence of an LSVC is important in patients with thesiologist who cares for children to recognize the main physi- single-ventricle physiology undergoing palliation involving a cal fi ndings that may distinguish an innocent cardiac murmur cavopulmonary (Glenn) connection(s). from a pathologic one. In addition, knowledge of several core ● Association with a dilated coronary sinus. On transesopha- concepts and red fl ags can help avoid overlooking potentially geal echocardiography it may be confused with other defects, important diagnoses. including an ostium primum atrial septal defect (one that lies Th e majority of normal children, in the range of 90%, will in the inferior aspect of the atrial septum) and anomalous have a murmur at some point in their lives. Th is is most com- pulmonary venous return to the coronary sinus. monly identifi ed during the neonatal period and early school A B Figure 14-10. Bilateral superior vena cavae. A, Angiogram depicting the superior vena cava, normally a right-sided structure, as it drains into the right atrium. B, Angiogram in the same child demonstrating drainage of a large left superior vena cava into the coronary sinus. The catheter courses from the inferior vena cava into the right atrium, coronary sinus, and left superior vena cava. Contrast medium into the left superior vena cava demonstrates no innominate (or bridging) vein. A dilated coronary sinus
