A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


cava into the right atrium, coronary sinus, and left superior vena cava. Contrast medium into the left superior vena cava demonstrates no innominate (or bridging) vein. A dilated coronary sinus is noted. 307 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children years. A great majority of murmurs are functional, otherwise Whenever there is doubt regarding the benign versus the considered innocent in nature, and require no special treatment. pathologic nature of a murmur, consultation with a pediatric Th is diagnosis is based on physical fi ndings consistent with the cardiologist is indicated. A chest radiograph and ECG, although benign nature of the specifi c murmur. thought by some to add minimal value in the initial diagnostic While a complete discussion of cardiac murmur evaluation assessment of a cardiac murmur228,229 and to not be cost eff ec- is beyond the scope of this chapter, it is pertinent to review a tive,230 may be helpful when considering if further consultation few key concepts related to the distinction between innocent is indicated. versus pathologic murmurs.226,227 Th e basic systematic approach when assessing a heart murmur is the same as when evaluating Basic Interpretation of the Pediatric any child’s cardiovascular system. Auscultation with both the diaphragm and bell of the stethoscope in the positions of the Electrocardiogram four primary cardiac valves should occur with the child and environment as quiet as possible. Innocent murmurs of infancy Despite the increasing applications of imaging modalities in the and childhood include pulmonary fl ow murmur, Still’s murmur, structural and functional assessment of pediatric heart disease, physiologic pulmonary branch stenosis, venous hum, and electrocardiography continues to play a signifi cant role in the carotid bruit. Innocent murmurs are usually of low intensity diagnosis and management of these children. An ECG is con- (grades I-II of VI) and are associated with a normal cardiovas- sidered an integral part of the evaluation of most children with cular examination (e.g., normal precordial activity, fi rst and congenital and acquired cardiovascular pathology. second heart sounds, peripheral pulses, capillary refi ll). Inno- Although the characteristic features of a normal ECG in cent murmurs, such as those associated with peripheral pulmo- infants and children were described many decades ago it is sur- nary branch stenosis, right ventricular outfl ow murmurs, and prising that it continues to be one of the most often misinter- Still’s murmurs, tend to be soft, systolic ejection type and not
