A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


stenosis, right ventricular outfl ow murmurs, and prising that it continues to be one of the most often misinter- Still’s murmurs, tend to be soft, systolic ejection type and not preted screening tests in pediatric medicine.231 Th is is largely holosystolic in duration. Physiologic murmurs often resolve by due to the developmental changes that occur in the normal changing the child’s hemodynamic state, either with maneuvers individual as he or she progresses from the neonatal period such as lying down or sitting up, or temporal changes such as through childhood, adolescence, and adulthood.232 Normal resolution of fever, improvement in anemia, and so on. Diastolic values for children of various ages have been established.233 or continuous murmurs are typically abnormal, with the excep- Indeed, knowledge of normal confi gurations and values for var- tion of a venous hum. Th is murmur is thought to be related to ious ages of children is essential for accurate interpretation.232-235 turbulent fl ow of systemic venous return in the jugular veins and Immediately after birth there is a predominance of right superior vena cava and is best heard at the base of the neck. ventricular forces represented by tall R waves in the right pre- Murmurs accompanied by a palpable thrill are always cordial leads (V and V) (Fig. 14-11). Over the fi rst several years, 1 2 pathologic. the typical ECG changes to a more familiar left-sided heart I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-11. Normal ECG in a 2-day-old infant. The normal predominance of right ventricular forces during the neonatal period (tall R waves over the right precordial leads (V and V) is evident. The inverted T waves in V are normal for age. 1 2 1-3 308 14 dominant confi guration with larger S waves in the right precor- with an S-wave dominant pattern in both I and aVF) are always dial leads and a gradual RS progression with tall R waves in the abnormal and merit further investigation. Th is is a frequent left precordial leads (V and V) (Fig. 14-12). Th e predominance fi nding in children with atrioventricular septal defects. Evaluat- 5 6 of right-sided heart forces coupled with the need to evaluate for ing the T wave, or repolarization axis, is also important, because dextrocardia are the primary reasons that pediatric ECGs should a diff erence of
