A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


with the need to evaluate for ing the T wave, or repolarization axis, is also important, because dextrocardia are the primary reasons that pediatric ECGs should a diff erence of greater than 90 degrees between the QRS and include the VR and VR leads, which are not routinely obtained T-wave axes can represent strain on the ventricle, which is fre- 3 4 in adult studies. Th ese electrodes are placed in the correspond- quently associated with ventricular hypertrophy (see Fig. ing V and V locations over the right precordium. 14-1). 3 4 Clinical information of relevance in the interpretation of an Once the evaluation of rhythm and axes is complete, each ECG includes the child’s age, gender, suspected or documented component of the cardiac cycle as represented on the ECG diagnosis, and indications for the examination. A number of should be examined. Th e P wave represents atrial systole; and requirements are essential for accurate interpretation. Th ese its morphology, with particular interest in leads II and V, can 1 include appropriate skin preparation, electrode placement, and demonstrate either right atrial (P wave amplitude >2.5 mm or an artifact-free recording. A systematic, organized approach to 3.0 mm based on age) or left atrial (P wave duration >100 to the pediatric ECG is suggested. Determination of the rate and 120 msec based on age) enlargement (Fig. 14-13). Th e PR inter- rhythm, with evaluation of the P wave vector and the relation- val represents the time required for passage of an impulse from ship between each P wave and QRS complex, is the fi rst step. It the sinoatrial node until ventricular depolarization and is largely is important to consider the infl uences of age, autonomic composed of the atrioventricular nodal delay. A prolonged PR nervous system, level of physical activity, medications, pain, and interval, which is age specifi c, indicates fi rst-degree atrioven- temperature on the child’s heart rate. Th e P wave should be tricular block. A short PR interval, on the other hand, should upright or positive in leads I and aVF, indicating that the sinus alert the practitioner to closely evaluate the QRS duration for node is the pacemaker of the heart (sinus rhythm, see Fig. 14- signs of pre-excitation (Wolff -Parkinson-White syndrome, Fig. 12). Normally, the P wave should precede the QRS complex. 14-14) although a short PR interval may also refl ect a low right
