A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


signs of pre-excitation (Wolff -Parkinson-White syndrome, Fig. 12). Normally, the P wave should precede the QRS complex. 14-14) although a short PR interval may also refl ect a low right Next, the QRS electrical axis should be determined. Th e QRS atrial pacemaker. frontal plane axis is determined by identifying the most iso- Th e QRS complex represents ventricular depolarization. Th e electric lead, which will be perpendicular to the direction of QRS duration should be examined in a lead with a Q wave ventricular depolarization. Alternatively, the direction of present (often lead V or V) for signs of conduction delay. Th e 5 6 depolarization in leads I and aVF can be examined to roughly importance of age-dependent normal values is obvious here, approximate the axis. As with all other components of the because the upper limits of normal QRS durations are only evaluation discussed here, the physiologic changes that occur 80 msec in neonates. Th e presence of a wide QRS complex with with growth are responsible for the change in normal values an RSR′ pattern in V is indicative of right bundle branch block, 1 for the QRS axis based on age. Regardless of age, QRS axes that and a QS pattern in V and a tall notched R wave in V is indica- 1 6 lie in the northwest quadrant (between 180 and 270 degrees tive of left bundle branch block. Other conditions associated I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-12. Normal ECG in a 10-year-old child. The typical left-sided heart dominant confi guration of children this age is noted (gradual RS progression with tall R waves in the left precordial leads [V and V]). This is in contrast to the right ventricular dominant pattern seen 5 6 during infancy and early childhood. The tracing demonstrates normal sinus rhythm, as documented by positive P waves in leads I and aVF. 309 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-13. Biatrial enlargement. The tracing was obtained in the emergency department setting in a child subsequently found to have restrictive cardiomyopathy. There is evidence of biatrial enlargement as determined by the tall and wide P waves in leads II and V, 1 respectively. with prolongation of the QRS duration
