A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


restrictive cardiomyopathy. There is evidence of biatrial enlargement as determined by the tall and wide P waves in leads II and V, 1 respectively. with prolongation of the QRS duration include ventricular pre- gestive of myocardial ischemia and require further evaluation. excitation and ventricular pacing. An additional, relatively rare but crucial, fi nding occurs in In addition to the QRS duration, the components of the QRS infants with anomalous origin of the left coronary artery arising complex should be examined. Q waves are often present in the from the pulmonary artery (ALCAPA). Classically, the ECG in lateral and inferior leads, as well as lead aVR, but should be these children demonstrates deep, wide Q waves in leads I and narrow (less than 40 msec) and shallow (age dependent, but aVL with ST-segment and T-wave changes in the anterior dis- generally less than 5 mm deep). Deep or wide Q waves are sug- tribution (V-V) consistent with compromised myocardial 2 4 I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-14. The tracing demonstrates the typical ECG features of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome: short PR interval, delta wave, and prolongation of the QRS interval. 310 14 I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-15. ECG tracing obtained in infant with poor ventricular function found to have anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery from the pulmonary root. The presence of Q waves in aVL and the diffuse ST-T wave changes suggestive of ischemia are classic for this anomaly. blood fl ow (Fig. 14-15). Th e QRS amplitudes are also important Although a detailed organized approach to pediatric ECG in assessing both left and right ventricular hypertrophy. Condi- interpretation is necessary, there are occasions when particular tions associated with increased QRS voltages that likely require conditions or circumstances cause global ECG changes that echocardiographic assessment include hypertrophic cardiomy- must be quickly recognized. One such case that may occur in opathy, left ventricular noncompaction, and Pompe disease (see the operating room relates to the ECG changes associated with Fig. 14-2). hyperkalemia. As the potassium level rises, the T-wave ampli- ST segments should be fl at and should not be depressed more tude will increase. Th is is followed by widening of the QRS than 0.5 mm or elevated more than 1 mm in any lead.
