A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


and should not be depressed more tude will increase. Th is is followed by widening of the QRS than 0.5 mm or elevated more than 1 mm in any lead. Th e major duration (Fig. 14-16) due to an intraventricular conduction exception to this rule is when there is gradual upsloping of the delay and, fi nally, atrioventricular block and arrhythmias, ST segment in the mid-precordial leads as seen in early repo- including ventricular tachycardia and fi brillation. Other electro- larization. T waves represent ventricular repolarization and lyte disturbances that may result in characteristic changes on should all be upright in the precordial leads at birth. Within 1 the ECG are as follows: to 3 days they become inverted, initially in V, and eventually in ● Hypokalemia: decreased T-wave amplitude, ST-segment 1 V, V, and sometimes in V. Starting at several years of age the depression, and the presence of U waves 2 3 4 T waves will return to the upright position in the reverse order. ● Hypercalcemia: shortening of the QT interval, sinus rate In normal adolescents and adults the T wave in lead V may be slowing, and sinoatrial block 1 upright or inverted. Th e only limb lead that typically displays an ● Hypocalcemia: lengthening of the QT interval inverted T wave is aVR. ● Hypomagnesemia: enhanced eff ects of hypocalcemia One fi nal aspect of the cardiac cycle that must be examined on any ECG is the QT interval—the time from the onset of ventricular depolarization, marked by the onset of the QRS Essentials of Cardiac Rhythm complex, until the completion of repolarization, marked by the Interpretation and Acute Arrhythmia end of the T wave. It represents the duration of electrical activa- tion and recovery of the ventricular myocardium and is mea- Management in Children sured as follows: Rhythm abnormalities may be identifi ed during the preopera- Corrected QT (QTc) = measured QT interval/square root of tive assessment, in the operating room, or in the postoperative preceding RR interval period. Th e considerations usually revolve around (1) identifi ca- A QTc that exceeds 460 msec is considered abnormal regard- tion of the rhythm disorder; (2) establishing the need for acute less of age. All QTc values that exceed normal values for age therapy; (3) deciding whether to consult a pediatric cardiologist; merit further investigation. Medications that prolong the QT and (4) conveying pertinent information to
