A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


values that exceed normal values for age therapy; (3) deciding whether to consult a pediatric cardiologist; merit further investigation. Medications that prolong the QT and (4) conveying pertinent information to the consultant to interval should be avoided until the child has been evaluated by assist in the characterization of the rhythm disturbance and to a cardiologist. establish a management plan. 311 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II A 25 mm/s 10 mm/mV 100 Hz I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II B Figure 14-16. ECG shows changes that may result from hyperkalemia. A, In this 12-year-old male’s ECG, there is marked widening of the QRS complexes, associated with peaked T waves. If untreated, this may progress to ventricular fi brillation and asystole. B, Tracing in same patient obtained several hours after treatment of electrolyte disturbance demonstrating resolution of the ECG changes. Th e following principles should be considered in addressing comprehensive discussion of arrhythmia interpretation is these issues: beyond the scope of this chapter, a brief overview of the 1. Operating room, bedside, or transport monitors and strip characteristic features of normal and abnormal cardiac recordings facilitate the recognition of rhythm disorders but rhythms in the pediatric age group is presented in the section in most cases are inadequate for defi nitive diagnosis. A 15- that follows. lead surface ECG and rhythm strip should be obtained in all 3. Th e need for acute therapy for a rhythm disturbance should children when feasible. be based primarily on the nature of the disorder, urgency of 2. In general, clinicians caring for children should have a basic the situation, and the likelihood that this abnormality would knowledge of cardiac rhythm interpretation. Although a or would not be tolerated beyond the immediate short-term 312 14 period. Th e guidelines established by the American Heart Basic Rhythms Association for Pediatric Advanced Life Support should be Sinus Rhythm followed in all patients.236 In general, in otherwise healthy As discussed in the section on basic electrocardiography, sinus children, and in contrast to ventricular arrhythmias, supra- rhythm is characterized by a P wave that precedes every QRS, ventricular tachyarrhythmias are rarely life threatening. a QRS that follows every P wave, and an upright P wave in leads 4. Th e
