A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


a P wave that precedes every QRS, ventricular tachyarrhythmias are rarely life threatening. a QRS that follows every P wave, and an upright P wave in leads 4. Th e degree of comfort in the characterization and manage- I and aVF (see Fig. 14-12). ment of pediatric cardiac arrhythmias is likely to be quite Sinus Arrhythmia variable among anesthesia care providers. For arrhythmias Th is represents cyclic changes in the heart rate during breath- secondary to respiratory compromise, electrolyte imbalance, ing. Th is is a normal fi nding in healthy children (Fig. 14-17). or metabolic derangements, consultation with a pediatric cardiologist is probably not required. Th is is also the case for Sinus Bradycardia variants or benign rhythm disturbances such as sinus Th is is characterized by sinus rhythm with heart rates below arrhythmia, low atrial rhythms, or occasional premature normal for age (see Fig. 14-1). Slow heart rates can be observed atrial beats. Consultation is appropriate in most children during sleep or at times of high vagal tone. When there is sig- with known structural heart disease (unoperated, palliated, nifi cant sinus bradycardia, a slow junctional escape rhythm or a or those who have undergone defi nitive interventions) or slow atrial rhythm originating from an ectopic focus may be acquired cardiovascular pathology, in those with a history of present. Certain forms of CHD may be prone to slow heart a cardiac rhythm disorder under the care of a cardiologist, rhythms (i.e., heterotaxy syndromes). and in the majority of those with acute arrhythmias, particu- In the intraoperative setting, particularly on induction of larly when the initiation of antiarrhythmic drug therapy is anesthesia, with laryngoscopy, endotracheal intubation, or tra- anticipated. cheal suctioning, sinus bradycardia may occur. Sinus bradycar- 5. When consulting a specialist information that may be helpful dia may also be due to drug administration (i.e., opioids) or to communicate includes pertinent details regarding the increased parasympathetic tone. Th is type of sinus bradycardia child’s history, clinical diagnosis, nature of the procedure/ rarely poses signifi cant hemodynamic compromise and, if nec- intervention, relevant laboratory values, description or char- essary, can be easily treated with removal of the stimulus, acterization of the rhythm abnormality, associated hemody- administration of a vagolytic agent (pancuronium), or chrono- namic parameters, circumstances surrounding the event— tropic agents such as atropine or epinephrine. Sinus bradycardia including the presence or absence of an intracardiac catheter, may also result
