A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


(pancuronium), or chrono- namic parameters, circumstances surrounding the event— tropic agents such as atropine or epinephrine. Sinus bradycardia including the presence or absence of an intracardiac catheter, may also result from hypoxemia, hypothermia, acidosis, electro- review of the pharmacologic agents administered (including lyte imbalance, or increased intracranial pressure. Bradycardia anesthetic agents), and other therapies if applicable. Th e con- related to hypoxemia should be treated promptly with the sultant should assist in the characterization of the rhythm administration of supplemental oxygen and appropriate airway disorder, advise as to whether further evaluation is indi- management (see Chapter 40). Th e approach to other secondary cated, make recommendations for treatment, and facilitate forms of sinus bradycardia should focus on addressing the diagnostic/therapeutic interventions as necessary. underlying cause. For worrisome low heart rates, particularly in **All leads at half standard** I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-17. Sinus arrhythmia. The rhythm tracing demonstrates the normal heart rate variability with respiration. There is a normal increase in heart rate during inspiration. This is a natural response and is more frequently seen in children. 313 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children small infants, or clinical evidence of compromised hemodynam- dren with right ventricular volume overload (e.g., those with ics, pharmacologic therapy (isoproterenol infusion) or tempo- atrial septal defects). Complete right bundle branch block (QRS rary pacing should be considered. complex greater than 100 msec for infants, 120 msec for older children) is frequently identifi ed in children after surgical pro- Sinus Tachycardia cedures that involve the right ventricular outfl ow tract. Th is is During sinus tachycardia, sinus rhythm occurs at a heart rate characterized by an RSR′ wave pattern in V, as well as an above normal for age (Fig. 14-18). In the perioperative setting 1 inverted T wave, and a wide and deep S (slurred) wave in V. this is often the result of surgical stimulation, stress, pain, hypo- 6 Left bundle branch block is an uncommon fi nding in the pedi- volemia, anemia, fever, medications (i.e., inotropic agents), or a atric age group that may result from cardiac interventions along high catecholamine state. Treatment is directed at the underly- the left ventricular outfl ow tract. Criteria for this conduction ing cause. Prolonged periods of sinus tachycardia may impair disorder include a prominent QS or rS complex in lead V
