A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


the left ventricular outfl ow tract. Criteria for this conduction ing cause. Prolonged periods of sinus tachycardia may impair disorder include a prominent QS or rS complex in lead V and diastolic fi lling time, limit ventricular preload, and compromise 1 tall, wide, and often notched R wave in leads I, aVL, and V. cardiac output. Children at risk of hemodynamic decompensa- 6 tion include those with signifi cant degrees of ventricular hyper- Atrioventricular Block trophy or diastolic dysfunction. First-Degree Atrioventricular Block Junctional Rhythm In fi rst-degree atrioventricular (AV) block there is prolongation A junctional rhythm is characterized by QRS complexes of mor- of the PR interval beyond the normal range for age. Each P wave phology identical to that of sinus rhythm without preceding P is followed by a conducted QRS. Th is may be found in healthy waves. Th is rhythm is slower than the expected sinus rate. When individuals but can also be seen in various disease states. In this rhythm completely takes over the pacemaker activity of the general, fi rst-degree AV block is a benign condition requiring heart, retrograde P waves and atrioventricular dissociation may no specifi c treatment. be seen. Junctional rhythms during cardiac surgery are fre- quently the result of manipulation/dissection in the proximity Second-Degree Atrioventricular Block of the right atrium. Th e central venous pressure contour typi- Th ere are two forms of second-degree AV block: Mobitz type I cally demonstrates prominent v waves (right atrial pressure (Wenckebach) and Mobitz type II. Th ese are characterized by a wave at the end of systole) due to the loss of AV synchrony (Fig. periodic failure to conduct atrial impulses to the ventricle (P 14-19). Th e lack of atrial contribution to ventricular fi lling may wave without following QRS complex). In type I second-degree result in decreases in the systemic arterial blood pressure. AV block there is a progressive lengthening of the PR interval with eventual failure of conduction of the next atrial impulse to the ventricle. Th e RR intervals concomitantly shorten. Th e Conduction Disorders degree of AV block is expressed as the ratio of P waves per QRS Bundle Branch Block complexes (i.e., 2 : 1, 3 : 2). Th is can occur during periods of high Incomplete right bundle branch block pattern (RSR′ in right vagal tone or in the postoperative setting. It is generally a benign precordial leads
