A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


is can occur during periods of high Incomplete right bundle branch block pattern (RSR′ in right vagal tone or in the postoperative setting. It is generally a benign precordial leads with near normal QRS duration) occurs in chil- phenomenon that requires no therapy. In the less frequent, type I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-18. ECG in a febrile infant displaying the features of sinus tachycardia (heart rate above normal for age and QRS complexes of normal appearance preceded by P waves that are upright in leads I and aVF). 314 14 II V A 100 ART1 50 CVP 0 SpO2 B Figure 14-19. (A) Intraoperative tracing obtained during cardiac surgery at the time of right atrial dissection demonstrating the features of a junctional rhythm. Retrograde P waves are identifi ed following the QRS complexes. (B) The central venous pressure (CVP) tracing demonstrates prominent v waves (arrows) related to the loss of atrioventricular synchrony (scale 0-30 mm Hg). II second-degree AV block there is a relatively constant PR Cardiac Arrhythmias interval before an atrial impulse that fails to conduct. Th is is Supraventricular Arrhythmias considered a more serious conduction disturbance and merits further investigation. Premature Atrial Contractions or Beats Isolated premature atrial contractions (PACs) are relatively Th ird-Degree (Complete) Atrioventricular Block common in infants and small children. On the ECG the early P Th ird-degree AV block is characterized by total failure of con- waves exhibit a morphology and axis that diff er from those in duction of atrial impulses to the ventricle. It can be either con- normal sinus rhythm. Premature atrial contractions may be con- genital or acquired. Th ere is complete AV dissociation, with ducted to the ventricles normally, blocked at the AV node, or more atrial than ventricular contractions, and the ventricular conduct aberrantly (abnormal QRS morphology). Th ese are rate is usually slow and regular (Fig. 14-20). Temporary pacing usually benign and require no therapy. If a central venous cath- may be indicated in the acute setting. eter is present, the tip position should be evaluated. 315 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children II Figure 14-20. Surface ECG tracing demonstrates independent atrial and ventricular activity (atrioventricular dissociation) and failure of any atrial impulses to conduct to the ventricles. These are features of complete atrioventricular block. Supraventricular Tachycardia maneuvers should also be obtained.
