A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


and ventricular activity (atrioventricular dissociation) and failure of any atrial impulses to conduct to the ventricles. These are features of complete atrioventricular block. Supraventricular Tachycardia maneuvers should also be obtained. Th e management of SVT Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is the most common signifi - depends on the clinical status of the child, type of tachycardia, cant arrhythmia in infants and children.237,238 It is characterized and precise electrophysiologic mechanism. General manage- by a regular tachyarrhythmia (tachycardia heart rate is age ment principles include the following: dependent but typically >230 beats per minute in children) with ● Determination of hemodynamic stability. In the presence of a narrow or “usual” complex QRS morphology. Supraventricular hemodynamic instability synchronized direct current car- tachycardia can occur in structurally normal hearts as well as in dioversion (0.5-1.0 J/kg) should be performed.236 various forms of CHD. “Usual” complex implies that the QRS ● Antiarrhythmic therapy is based primarily on the clinical morphology in tachycardia is similar to that in normal sinus condition and suspected tachycardia mechanism. Vagal rhythm (Fig. 14-21). On occasion, widening of the QRS in SVT maneuvers may be considered but should not delay treatment. may be secondary to bundle branch block or related to the Adenosine is the drug of choice in the acute setting for tachycardia mechanism (SVT with aberrancy). A wide QRS diagnosis and termination of most supraventricular complex may make the distinction between supraventricular tachycardias.239,240 β blockers are most often used for chronic and ventricular tachycardia diffi cult. therapy. Th ere are two general types of SVT: automatic and reentrant. ● Others measures include treatment of fever if present, seda- Th ese can be diff erentiated by evaluating characteristics of the tion, correction of electrolyte disturbance, decreasing or tachycardia, usually assisted by the input from a specialist. Th e withdrawing medications associated with sympathetic stim- evaluation of a tachyarrhythmia should include a surface 15- ulation (i.e., inotropic agents) or with vagolytic properties lead ECG and continuous rhythm strip to document onset and (i.e., pancuronium). termination; and, if a medication such as adenosine has been ● In addition to pharmacologic therapy, atrial pacing or car- administered, a recording of the response to the drug or pacing dioversion may be required. II V 100 30 ART1 CVP2 50 15 CVP 0 0 SPO 2 Figure 14-21. The initial portion of the tracing demonstrates normal sinus rhythm. A premature atrial beat initiates a narrow complex
