A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


30 ART1 CVP2 50 15 CVP 0 0 SPO 2 Figure 14-21. The initial portion of the tracing demonstrates normal sinus rhythm. A premature atrial beat initiates a narrow complex tachycardia (QRS morphology same as in sinus rhythm). The supraventricular tachycardia is associated with hemodynamic changes (note the decrease in the systemic arterial pressure, ART 1, scale 0-100 mm Hg and the increase in the central venous pressure, CVP, scale 0-30 mm Hg; oxygen saturation, SpO2). 316 14 Ventricular Arrhythmias diate morphology between two other distinct QRS morpholo- gies), (3) QRS morphology of VT similar to that of single PVCs, Premature Ventricular Contractions or Beats and (4) tachycardia rate in children usually below 250 beats per Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) are characterized by minute. (1) prematurity of the QRS complex, (2) a QRS morphology that Acute onset of VT in pediatric patients may be due to hypoxia, diff ers from that in sinus rhythm, (3) usually a prolongation of acidosis, electrolyte imbalance, or metabolic problems. Ven- the QRS duration for age, (4) abnormalities of the ST segment tricular tachycardia may also occur in the context of depressed and T wave, and (5) premature ventricular activity not preceded myocardial function, poor hemodynamics, prior surgical inter- by a premature atrial beat. PVCs of a single QRS morphology ventions, cardiomyopathies, myocardial tumors, acute injury (uniform), without associated symptoms, and in children with (infl ammation, trauma), and prolonged QT syndromes.241,242 structurally normal hearts are generally considered benign. An Among patients with CHD and ventricular arrhythmias, those ECG during sinus rhythm should allow for careful measurement at higher risk include older children after tetralogy of Fallot of the QT interval. Further investigation and consultation is repair. warranted in the presence of PVCs of multiple morphologies (multiform), if these occur with moderate frequency or in suc- cession (couplets or runs), and are associated with symptoms or Long QT Syndrome a structurally abnormal heart. Long QT syndrome (Fig. 14-23) is an electrical cardiac distur- Ventricular ectopy in the perioperative period may be the bance that can predispose children to arrhythmias that include result of profound hypoxemia, electrolyte disturbances, or met- torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia (Fig. 14-24), ven- abolic derangements. Other causes include the use of recre- tricular fi brillation, and bradyarrhythmias resulting in syncope, ational drugs, myocardial injury, poor hemodynamics, and prior cardiac arrest, or sudden death.243 Congenital and acquired cardiac surgical intervention. forms have been
