A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


tricular fi brillation, and bradyarrhythmias resulting in syncope, ational drugs, myocardial injury, poor hemodynamics, and prior cardiac arrest, or sudden death.243 Congenital and acquired cardiac surgical intervention. forms have been described. Th e congenital varieties (i.e., Romano-Ward, Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndromes) are likely Ventricular Tachycardia the result of a genetic defect in the sodium or potassium chan- Ventricular tachycardia (VT) is relatively uncommon in chil- nels responsible for maintaining electrical homeostasis in the dren. It is defi ned as three or more consecutive ventricular beats heart.244 Diagnostic criteria proposed for the long QT syndrome occurring at a rate greater than 120 beats per minute (Fig. include ECG fi ndings, clinical history (deafness, syncope), and 14-22). Th e QRS morphology in VT is diff erent than that in family history.245 A frequent feature is prolongation of the QTc sinus rhythm, and the QRS duration is typically prolonged for on the resting ECG . age. ECG features that support this diagnosis include (1) AV An important consideration in the care of children with long dissociation, (2) intermittent fusion (QRS complex of interme- QT syndrome is ensuring adequate β-adrenergic blockade pre- I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-22. The tracing demonstrates frequent uniform premature ventricular beats and episodes of nonsustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia. 317 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children I aVR V1 V4 V3R II aVL V2 V5 V4R III aVF V3 V6 V7 II Figure 14-23. Long QT syndrome. Note the appearance of a prolonged QT interval on the ECG. operatively and minimizing adrenergic stimulation.243 In view of 2. Th e initial approach in the care of a child with an acute ven- the fact that the evidence for risk is variable among the many tricular rhythm disturbance is the prompt evaluation of clini- drugs associated with torsades de pointes, the drugs have been cal status and hemodynamic stability. Sustained ventricular divided into several groups (these are listed and updated on www. arrhythmias are generally poorly tolerated and require qtdrugs.org). Intraoperative arrhythmias can be treated with immediate attention. In the unstable child, cardiopulmonary additional doses of β blockers. Magnesium and/or amiodarone resuscitation should be instituted while preparing for cardio- may be required in some cases. Bradyarrhythmias can be managed version. Expert consultation is advisable when advanced by pacing. Conditions and drugs associated with prolongation of drug therapy is
