A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


cardio- may be required in some cases. Bradyarrhythmias can be managed version. Expert consultation is advisable when advanced by pacing. Conditions and drugs associated with prolongation of drug therapy is contemplated. Drugs that may be considered the QT interval should be avoided if possible. Despite the fact include lidocaine, amiodarone or procainamide.236 Th e latter that several drugs routinely administered during anesthetic care two should not routinely be administered concurrently due (intravenous medications and inhalational agents) increase the to QT prolongation. QT interval, in most cases these drugs are given without untow- 3. Electrical cardioversion in torsades de pointes should ard eff ects. Th is supports the concept that other factors, such as be performed only if the arrhythmia is sustained. Magne- the eff ect of a drug on the dispersion of myocardial repolariza- sium sulfate is considered a fi rst-line drug. Procainamide tion, may be more predictive of arrhythmogenic potential rather is contraindicated due to prolongation of the QT than prolongation of the QT interval per se. Th e care of these interval. patients should be planned in combination with a specialist. 4. In addition to β blockade, some congenital forms of the Prolongation of the QT interval may also result from electro- long QT syndrome may require implantation of a cardio- lyte derangements (hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomag- verter-defi brillator. nesemia), drug therapy (antibiotics, antiarrhythmic agents, antipsychotic drugs, cisapride), and neurologic or endocrine Ventricular Fibrillation abnormalities. Th erapy in this setting should focus on correc- Ventricular fi brillation (VF) is an uncommon arrhythmia in tion of the underlying cause. children. It is characterized by chaotic, asynchronous ventricu- Considerations in the management of VT are as follows: lar activity that fails to generate an adequate cardiac output. Th e 1. Although some atypical forms of supraventricular tachyar- ECG in VF demonstrates low-amplitude irregular defl ections rhythmias may mimic VT, a wide QRS tachycardia should without identifi able QRS complexes. A loose ECG electrode always be considered to be of ventricular origin. may mimic these surface ECG features; thus, immediate clinical Figure 14-24. The typical positive and negative oscillation of QRS complexes that characterize torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia are shown. 318 14 assessment should be performed and adequate pad contact ● Th e fi fth to multisite pacing (A = atrium, V = ventricle, D = assured when VF is suspected. dual or both, O = none) Considerations in the management
