A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


Th e fi fth to multisite pacing (A = atrium, V = ventricle, D = assured when VF is suspected. dual or both, O = none) Considerations in the management of VF are as follows: 1. Th is is a lethal arrhythmia if untreated. Permanent Cardiac Pacing 2. Immediate defi brillation (initial dose 2 J/kg) is the defi nitive therapy. If this is unsuccessful, the energy dose should be Indications doubled (4 J/kg) and repeated. Pediatric paddles (2.2 cm Guidelines for permanent pacing in children, adolescents, and diameter) are generally recommended for children weighing patients with CHD were updated in 2002.247 Indications include less than 10 kg. Adult paddles (8-9 mm diameter) are sug- symptomatic sinus bradycardia, bradycardia-tachycardia syn- gested for children weighing more than 10 kg to reduce dromes, congenital complete AV block, and advanced second- impedance and maximize current fl ow. or third-degree AV block.247,248 3. Adequate airway control and chest compressions should be rapidly instituted while preparing for defi brillation or Perioperative Considerations between shocks if several defi brillation attempts are needed. Device interrogation should be part of the complete preopera- Resuscitative drugs should strongly be considered without tive evaluation in all patients with implanted pacemaker systems delaying defi brillation. scheduled for anesthetic care.249,250 Consultation with a special- ist to obtain information regarding unit type, settings, date of and indications for implantation, and underlying rhythm is Pacemaker Therapy in the Pediatric highly recommended. If unit information is not readily available Age Group a chest radiograph provides identifi cation of the device, as indi- cated by a radiopaque marker. Alternatively, the major pace- Pacemaker Nomenclature maker manufacturers can be contacted on an around-the-clock Th e pacemaker nomenclature was revised by the North Ameri- basis as they maintain computerized records of all implanted can Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology and the British devices that can be readily accessed. Results of a recent 15-lead Pacing and Electrophysiology Group in 2000,246 as follows (Table ECG should be reviewed. Reprogramming may be required 14-3): before the planned procedure to avoid potential problems with ● Th e fi rst letter refers to the chamber(s) paced (A = atrium, pacemaker malfunction related to electrocautery. Electrocau- V = ventricle, D = dual or both, O = none) tery is one of the most common potential sources of electro- ● Th e second to the chamber(s) sensed (A = atrium, V = ven- magnetic interference in
