A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


scalpel and battery operated hot wire hand-held cautery tion with a cardiologist/electrophysiologist is, therefore, essential units do not interfere with implanted cardiac devices. Rate- in the care of these children. In many cases the devices may need responsive features should be deactivated in the majority of to be adjusted or deactivated before surgery. Careful evaluation cases. Chronotropic drugs and alternate pacing modalities and device reprogramming is advisable at the conclusion of the (transcutaneous, transvenous, epicardial) should be readily surgical intervention. available in the event of pacemaker malfunction and compro- mising underlying rate. Although insertion of a transvenous Diagnostic Modalities in pacing system has been advised in children with complete AV Pediatric Cardiology block undergoing pacemaker implantation, a 10-year review concluded that there is no benefi t to routine preoperative tem- Chest Radiography porary pacing in these children.251 Capture thresholds can be Th e standard posteroanterior and lateral chest radiographs aff ected by pharmacologic agents, and this should be considered provide a number of clues regarding a child’s underlying cardio- if pacing is required in the child receiving antiarrhythmic drug vascular anatomy; however, plain radiographs in general are an therapy. Perioperative conditions may also infl uence pacing insensitive screening tool for cardiac disease.264 Children with thresholds. A magnet should be accessible to allow for asyn- numerous types of signifi cant CHD may have initially normal- chronous pacing if required.252,253 Most generators respond to appearing radiographs; alternatively, an infant with a poor inspi- magnet application by pacing at a fi xed rate asynchronously ratory eff ort and the presence of a large thymus may give the (AOO, VOO, or DOO). A potential issue is that the specifi c appearance of cardiomegaly and actually have normal intracar- magnet rate, as determined by the manufacturer for the particu- diac anatomy (Fig. 14-25). lar device, may diff er from the desirable or optimal pacing rate. Interpretation of a chest radiograph begins with identifi ca- Th us, the use of a magnet should not be considered a substitute tion of the patient’s name and ensuring that the right-left orien- for preoperative pacemaker interrogation/programming. In tation of the radiograph is appropriate. All lines and tubes addition to perioperative ECG monitoring, additional modali- (including endotracheal tube position if applicable and sternal ties that confi rm pulse generation during pacing (esophageal wires from prior surgeries as well as coils, devices, and stents stethoscope for assessment of heart sounds, pulse
