A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


applicable and sternal ties that confi rm pulse generation during pacing (esophageal wires from prior surgeries as well as coils, devices, and stents stethoscope for assessment of heart sounds, pulse oximetry, from prior catheterization procedures) should be followed to invasive arterial blood pressure monitoring) are strongly encour- verify their location, course, and likely site of termination. Th e aged. After the procedure is completed, the device should be bones and soft tissues should be inspected for evidence of tested and reprogrammed. sternal wires, fractures, vertebral anomalies, or wide intercostal Transcutaneous Pacing spaces, suggesting a prior thoracotomy. Sidedness, including the Several devices that combine defi brillation/cardioversion capa- location of the gastric bubble, liver, and position and orientation bilities and external pacing features are currently available. In of the cardiac mass, should be noted. Th e lung parenchyma children, emergency transthoracic pacing may be considered as should be examined for evidence of focal consolidation, such as a temporizing measure in those with symptomatic bradycar- pneumonia or atelectasis, as well as the pulmonary vascular dia.254 Transcutaneous pacing has not been found to be eff ective markings. Pulmonary overcirculation or undercirculation helps in the treatment of asystole in children.255 Pacing electrode size should be selected according to patient size (usually patients weighing less than 15 kg require smaller adhesive pads). Device settings typically include pacing rate and power output. Seda- tion may be necessary to tolerate soft tissue discomfort. Pro- longed periods of transcutaneous pacing may result in local cutaneous injury. In addition to monitoring for pacemaker capture by ECG, ongoing clinical assessment of the adequacy of cardiac output should be undertaken. Implantable Cardioverter-Defi brillators Th e primary goal of an implantable cardioverter-defi brillator (ICD) is the prevention of sudden death in children at high risk.247 Although sudden cardiac death is an uncommon occur- rence in children, certain patients may be at particular high risk. Individuals with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, long QT syndrome, and HCM and those with a history of near- death events may be considered suitable candidates for pace- maker/defi brillator implantation.248,256 Potential candidates also include those with operated CHD and a history of malignant arrhythmias.257 At the present time, the experience in the pedi- atric age group with these devices has been limited and addi- Figure 14-25. Chest radiograph in a neonate with apneic episodes tional data are required to further refi ne guidelines for use, undergoing evaluation to exclude
