A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


has been limited and addi- Figure 14-25. Chest radiograph in a neonate with apneic episodes tional data are required to further refi ne guidelines for use, undergoing evaluation to exclude potential cardiac etiology address safety concerns, and evaluate long-term issues specifi c demonstrates the appearance of a poor inspiratory effort and a to children.247,257-261 Th e anesthetic implications of implanted large cardiothymic silhouette, making the interpretation diffi cult. units relate primarily to the potential for surgical electromag- No evidence of cardiac pathology was identifi ed in this infant. 320 14 guide the diff erential diagnosis (see earlier discussion on physi- ologic classifi cation of CHD). Last, the cardiac silhouette and great vessels should be assessed. In younger children the thymus may obscure the supe- rior portions of the cardiac shadow. Careful inspection of the cardiac silhouette includes an assessment of overall size and evidence of individual chamber/vessel dilation (e.g., rightward cardiac dilation on the posteroanterior fi lm indicating right atrial enlargement or posterior enlargement on the lateral fi lm suggesting left atrial dilation). Prominence of the main pulmo- nary artery segment if present should be noted because it pro- vides further evidence of the degree of pulmonary overcirculation in left-to-right shunt lesions. Th e tracheal indentation can usually be seen and is useful in determining aortic arch sided- ness, although in a young child with a prominent thymus this can be diffi cult to assess. Perhaps more useful than an individual radiograph as a diag- nostic tool, however, are serial chest fi lms used to monitor a child’s cardiovascular status over time. In a young child with a volume overload lesion such as a large septal defect, the child’s physical examination and growth parameters coupled with the degree of cardiomegaly and pulmonary overcirculation are more helpful than other more advanced imaging techniques. Initia- Figure 14-26. Lateral view of a barium swallow in a child with tion and titration of pharmacologic therapy, as well as the timing respiratory symptoms demonstrating a fi lling defect posteriorly in of surgery, may also be guided by a plain chest radiograph. the midesophagus, consistent with an aberrant subclavian artery. Barium Swallow Th e current applications and uses of barium swallow studies in the diagnosis of CHD are limited. To a large extent this modality windows in certain patient groups, such as those who have has been replaced by MRI and chest tomography.265-267 In some undergone
