A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


CHD are limited. To a large extent this modality windows in certain patient groups, such as those who have has been replaced by MRI and chest tomography.265-267 In some undergone multiple cardiothoracic procedures, older individu- cases, however, a barium esophagogram is used as an initial als, or children with a signifi cant amount of soft tissue/body fat. screening tool when there is concern for the presence of a vas- For this reason, cardiovascular MRI is being increasingly used cular ring, as in a child with medically refractory gastroesopha- for noninvasive imaging in certain subsets of children (see later). geal refl ux, recurrent pneumonia, or stridor.268,269 Double aortic Additional challenges of echocardiography include the need to arches represent one of the most common types of vascular ring obtain serial two-dimensional (2D) tomographic images by in young children, but other types such as a right aortic arch sweeping the transducer scan in multiple planes to mentally with an aberrant left subclavian artery and a left-sided ligamen- translate these images into three-dimensional (3D) structures, tum arteriosus may also cause symptoms. Th e indentation and the need for expertise in the interpretation. Despite these pattern in the barium column is consistent with the specifi c limitations, echocardiography remains the primary diagnostic vascular anomaly (Fig. 14-26). imaging modality in most children and many medical and surgi- cal management strategies are primarily based on the echocar- Echocardiography diographic fi ndings. Echocardiography is the diagnostic modality of choice for the A standard transthoracic echocardiogram consists of a two- initial evaluation and serial assessment in most types of pediat- dimensional (2D) examination, M-mode imaging, and Doppler ric heart disease. Using a variety of probes, ultrasound waves evaluation (color fl ow, pulsed-wave, continuous-wave modali- are used to acquire real time images of cardiovascular struc- ties). Two-dimensional imaging provides structural assessment tures. Various echocardiographic modalities are available, of the heart and adjacent vasculature. Cross-sectional images including transthoracic,270 transesophageal,271-274 fetal,275,276 epi- are obtained from a number of windows that allow for excellent cardial,277 intracardiac imaging,278 and intravascular ultra- anatomic detail in multiple planes (Video Clip 14-11). For the sound.279 Each of these play important roles in the diagnostic transthoracic approach a typical examination includes the para- evaluation and management of children with suspected or con- sternal, apical, subcostal, and suprasternal notch windows. In fi rmed cardiovascular disease. most cases, this is adequate for a detailed segmental evaluation Advantages of echocardiography include
