A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


with suspected or con- sternal, apical, subcostal, and suprasternal notch windows. In fi rmed cardiovascular disease. most cases, this is adequate for a detailed segmental evaluation Advantages of echocardiography include its noninvasive of the cardiac anatomy as described earlier. M-mode echocar- nature, provision of excellent temporal and spatial resolution, diography allows for a one-dimensional imaging of the heart generation of portable real-time images, cost-eff ectiveness, and with excellent temporal resolution (Fig. 14-27). It is otherwise ease of use. As with any type of ultrasound, these waves are known as an “ice pick” view of the heart in real time. Unfortu- transmitted well through homogeneous tissues and fl uid but nately, this technique only provides limited anatomic informa- poorly through air and bone. In children with signifi cant pul- tion, and as such, is primarily used in the assessment of monary disease, air-fi lled spaces (pneumothorax) and signifi - ventricular dimensions and function. cant scar tissue image quality may be suboptimal. Another Color fl ow Doppler techniques allow for evaluation of both limitation of echocardiography relates to limited acoustic directionality and velocity of blood fl ow. In addition to detecting 321 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children 4:10:53 pm 45dB •/ 0/ •/2 3V2c 5sec 1 Dist = 5.04cm LVEDD H3.5MHz R0mm ΔT = 0.000s Ped Heart Slope = ****cm/s General 2 Dist = 2.93cm LVESD ΔT = 0.046s Store in progress 0:01:47 Slope = 63.75cm/s HR= 58bpm Sweep=100mm/s Cal=10mm 0 RV 1 IVS 2 LV 2 1 LVPW 130 Figure 14-27. M-mode echocardiography allows for determination of left ventricular dimensions and calculation of shortening fraction. RV, right ventricle; IVS, interventricular septum; LV, left ventricle; LVPW, left ventricular posterior wall; LVEDD, left ventricular end-diastolic dimension; LVESD, left ventricular end-systolic dimension. fl ow across cardiac valves and great vessels, color fl ow imaging interventions are planned. Technologic advances in a number allows detection of subtle lesions such as small septal defects of areas should allow for improved image quality and shorter that can be diffi cult to identify by standard 2D imaging alone. acquisition times. Traditionally, fl ow toward the transducer is displayed in red whereas fl ow away is represented as blue. Turbulent blood fl ow is associated with increased Doppler velocities and can be Practical Concepts Regarding the Interpretation of an readily identifi ed as a mosaic of colors, typically of greenish tint Echocardiographic Report (Video Clip 14-12).
