A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


increased Doppler velocities and can be Practical Concepts Regarding the Interpretation of an readily identifi ed as a mosaic of colors, typically of greenish tint Echocardiographic Report (Video Clip 14-12). Measurements of Cardiac Chambers and Vessel Dimensions Pulsed- and continuous-wave Doppler represent spectral A number of measurements are routinely performed during an modalities that complement the color fl ow data and provide echocardiographic examination. Th ese generally include ven- quantitative information. Pulsed-wave interrogation is advanta- tricular dimensions such as left ventricular end-diastolic (LVED) geous in localizing specifi c sites of stenosis or turbulence but is and end-systolic (LVES) dimensions, thickness of the interven- limited in the magnitude of velocities it can detect. Continuous- tricular septum and left ventricular posterior wall, as well as wave Doppler, on the other hand, allows for quantifi cation measurements of valve sizes and great artery dimensions. To of much higher velocities (see Video Clip 14-12). By using determine whether these are appropriate for the child being velocities obtained with pulsed- and continuous-wave Doppler, examined, the measurements are related to values obtained in estimates of pressures within various cardiac chambers are pos- normal children matched for body-surface area. In many centers sible by applying the simplifi ed Bernoulli equation, which states the reports include determinations of Z scores to indicate how that the diff erence in pressure between two locations is approxi- many standard deviations the observations are from mean mately four times the square of the velocity of the jet of fl ow values in a comparative population. between them: Pressure gradient (in mm Hg) = 4 × v2 Assessment of Ventricular Function A number of echocardiographic techniques are able to provide Th e applications of 3D echocardiography have been increas- information regarding ventricular performance. Two of the ingly investigated in the diagnosis of CHD.280-282 An examination most commonly reported indices of ventricular systolic function can provide clear and useful volumetric assessments when the involve measurements of the extent of shortening, namely, images are adequate. A signifi cant advantage of this imaging shortening fraction and ejection fraction. approach is that it is able to display cardiovascular structures Shortening fraction (SF) represents the percent of change in and their interrelationships in detail, in many cases facilitating left ventricular diameter during the cardiac cycle. Th is is calcu- the understanding of pathologic conditions over 2D imaging. It lated using the following equation: allows for an enhanced perspective
