A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


left ventricular diameter during the cardiac cycle. Th is is calcu- the understanding of pathologic conditions over 2D imaging. It lated using the following equation: allows for an enhanced perspective of the margins and geometry of abnormalities, such as septal defects and valvar anomalies. SF (%) = L VED dimension − LVES dimension/LVED 3D echocardiography may also be particularly useful when dimension 322 14 Values range from 28% to 44%, with a normal mean value of Evaluation of Gradients 36%. Th is index, however, is dependent on ventricular preload Estimation of a peak instantaneous gradient is the most clini- and afterload. cally useful method for quantifying the severity of obstructions Ejection fraction (EF) is the fraction of blood ejected by the across semilunar valves and outfl ow tracts. It is derived by appli- ventricle (stroke volume) relative to its end-diastolic volume. In cation of the simplifi ed Bernoulli equation. Th ese estimates other words, it represents the percentage of blood ejected from when obtained across the pulmonary valve tend to have a higher the left ventricle with each heart beat. Ejection fraction is correlation with catheterization peak-to-peak gradients than derived by volumetric analysis of the left ventricle by means of those measured across the aortic valve, where mean gradients the following equation: (obtained by automated integration of the velocities under a spectral Doppler tracing) are found to have a higher correla- EF (%) = LVEDV − LVESV/LVEDV tion.291 Th e mean gradient rather than a peak gradient as deter- mined by Doppler echocardiography is considered a better where LVEDV = left ventricular end-diastolic volume and indicator of the severity of the obstruction across atrioventricu- LVESV = left ventricular end-systolic volume lar valves and other low-fl ow venous pathways. Normal values vary in the literature but in most studies range between 56% and 78%. A low ejection fraction is generally asso- Evaluation of Regurgitant Lesions ciated with systolic functional impairment, but cardiac dysfunc- Although a number of echocardiographic parameters have been tion may occur in the presence of a normal ejection fraction. investigated that may facilitate the evaluation of the severity of Such may be the case of a child with diastolic heart failure. regurgitant lesions, in most pediatric cardiac centers this It is important to also consider that although these functional remains largely a qualitative assessment. Th e severity of the indices are routinely and easily obtained they have signifi
