A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


delineation of vascular structures (aortic arch, systemic and pulmonary venous drainage), evaluation of possible airway Estimation of Pressures compression, and characterization of cardiac tumors. Despite When the peak velocity of a tricuspid regurgitant jet is reported, the signifi cant technical challenges associated with the tech- these data can be used to estimate right ventricular systolic nique in children, this imaging approach plays an important pressure and thus pulmonary artery systolic pressure, in the diagnostic role. In adults with CHD, particularly in those with absence of pulmonary stenosis or outfl ow obstruction (Video poor acoustic windows, this is frequently the imaging modality Clip 14-13). If, for example, a peak regurgitant velocity of of choice. Th is may also be the case in children with palliated or 3 m/sec is recorded across the tricuspid valve, using the simpli- repaired CHD. fi ed Bernoulli equation as discussed earlier, the pressure gradi- Although the temporal resolution of MRI is inferior to echo- ent or diff erence between the right atrial and right ventricular cardiography, new sequences and techniques allow for real-time systolic pressures can be estimated to be 4 × 32 = 36 mm Hg. If acquisition similar to that of fl uoroscopy. Spatial resolution con- a normal right atrial pressure is assumed (4 to 6 mm Hg), this tinues to improve as well, particularly with the use of more would predict a right ventricular systolic pressure of approxi- powerful magnets. An important aspect in the acquisition of mately 40 mm Hg. Similarly, if the peak or maximal fl ow veloc- MRI data with high spatial resolution is the use of both cardiac ity across a ventricular septal defect is measured at 4.5 msec, and respiratory gating to allow sampling during only specifi c this predicts a pressure gradient of 4 × 4.52 = 81 mm Hg between portions of the cardiac and respiratory cycles. Slow heart rates the ventricles, implying that the defect is pressure restrictive and and low respiratory rates facilitate this process. MRI, in contrast the right ventricular and pulmonary artery systolic pressures are to CT, does not involve radiation exposure, making it preferable relatively low. for serial examinations that many young children with cardio- 323 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children vascular pathology require. However, MRI examinations are minimal or not necessary. With multislice CT detectors, a com- associated with the need for multiple anesthetics and their plete
