A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


Infants and Children vascular pathology require. However, MRI examinations are minimal or not necessary. With multislice CT detectors, a com- associated with the need for multiple anesthetics and their plete CT of the thorax can be performed in less than 10 seconds; inherent risks. and as new 64-slice detectors become increasingly available, the Because of the nature of the magnetic fi elds generated in time required for the study will continue to shorten. A signifi - MRI, the presence of several types of metal, including pacemak- cant drawback of CT is the signifi cant radiation burden, although ers, ICDs, cerebrovascular clips/coils, or recently implanted typically estimated to be similar or slightly higher than a diag- intracardiac or intravascular coils and devices, are considered nostic cardiac catheterization, and the likely need for iodinated contraindications. Some artifi cial devices such as vascular clips, contrast agents with their concomitant risks. intravascular stents, and atrial septal defect occluder devices are Cardiac CT is not as accurate as MRI for delineation of intra- typically made of titanium, allowing for sequences to be acquired cardiac anatomy, but it provides excellent spatial resolution and that minimize the artifact produced by the foreign material. information on extracardiac vasculature. CT has been reported Stainless steel, on the other hand, as is found in coils used for to be of benefi t in the evaluation of aortic arch anomalies and occlusion of collateral vessels or a patent ductus arteriosus, gen- vascular rings, as well as in defi ning the systemic and pulmonary erates signifi cant artifacts within the study. venous returns. In adult patients, multislice CT provides excel- An additional limitation of MRI is the need for patient immo- lent information on coronary arteries and the presence of ath- bility during long examinations for optimal image quality. In erosclerotic disease; but in infants and children with smaller small children this requirement usually necessitates the use of vessels and more rapid heart rates, these images are more diffi - deep sedation/general anesthesia.309-311 In infants with complex, cult to obtain. and often cyanotic, CHD, specialists skilled in the care of chil- dren with cardiovascular pathology are often asked to provide Cardiac Catheterization and Angiography care during the procedures. Th e severity of the cardiovascular Cardiac catheterization involves the invasive measurement of disease may add to the challenges presented to the anesthesia intracardiac/vascular pressures and blood oxygen saturation care provider in a remote
