A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


the cardiovascular Cardiac catheterization involves the invasive measurement of disease may add to the challenges presented to the anesthesia intracardiac/vascular pressures and blood oxygen saturation care provider in a remote location.312,313 Th e lengthy nature of coupled with angiography to assess cardiac anatomy and hemo- the studies and the signifi cant time requirements to perform dynamics (Figs. 14-29 and 14-30). Before the era of 2D echocar- postprocessing of the images cause MRI to be much more time diography, cardiac catheterization was frequently used for intensive for the interpreting physician than other noninvasive diagnostic purposes. At the present time, with the advances in imaging modalities. noninvasive imaging, diagnostic procedures represent a rela- A signifi cant advantage to this technique is avoidance of tively small proportion of these studies. Current indications for harmful radiation inherent to traditional catheterization tech- cardiac catheterization at most centers include (1) the assess- niques. As MRI technology improves, with faster scans, increas- ment of physiologic parameters such as pressure and resistance ing availability, and decreasing cost, it will continue to play an data, (2) anatomic defi nition when other diagnostic modali- increasing role in the diagnosis and longitudinal follow-up of ties are inadequate, (3) need for electrophysiologic testing/ congenital and acquired pediatric heart disease. treatment, and (4) when interventions are anticipated. Th e majority of catheterizations in the current era involve Computed Tomography interventions, ranging from endomyocardial biopsies, to angio- Cardiac computed tomography (CT), with or without ECG plasties and stenting of stenotic vessels, dilation of valves, and gating, has also become an option among the battery of imag- conduits, to occlusion techniques for both native defects such ing modalities available to the pediatric cardiologist (Fig. as a patent ductus arteriosus, septal defects, or fi stulous connec- 14-28).292,296,314,315 Th e major advantage of CT over MRI is the tions and surgically created defects such as Fontan fenestrations very rapid scan times, such that, in most children, sedation is (Fig. 14-31, Video Clip 14-16, see Chapter 20). In some cases, Figure 14-28. These two CT images display the details of the aortic arch anatomy in an infant with severe aortic arch obstruction. 324 14 Blalock-Tausig Shunt 44% xx 57% 53% 20/13 m=8 xx m=16 77% 77% a = 6 v = 5 51/0,4 m = 5 68% 58/20 m = 33 74% Arrows indicate catheter course Wt 3.3 KG Diagnosis: 1. Heterotaxy 2. Dextrocardia 3. Complete atrioventricular canal
