A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


6 v = 5 51/0,4 m = 5 68% 58/20 m = 33 74% Arrows indicate catheter course Wt 3.3 KG Diagnosis: 1. Heterotaxy 2. Dextrocardia 3. Complete atrioventricular canal 4. Double outlet right ventricle 5. Pulmonary stenosis, severe 6. L-transposition of the great arteries 7. Interrupted inferior vena cava with azygous continuation 8. Status post innominate to main pulmonary artery shunt 9. Right pulmonary artery isolation Figure 14-29. Cardiac catheterization. Diagram illustrating the structural abnormalities in a child with complex cardiovascular pathology. Data routinely obtained at cardiac catheterization are depicted, including oxygen saturation determinations, pressure measurements, and hemodynamic calculations. These types of pictorial representations are extremely helpful when caring for children with complex defects. such as might be the case of critically ill neonates with complex ment of blood fl ows and other calculations (i.e., shunts).316 Addi- heart disease, catheter-based interventions such as balloon atrial tional data that may be obtained include pressure gradients, septostomy and other procedures can be lifesaving. cardiac output measurements, and parameters to derive vascu- In most children, access to the central circulation is accom- lar resistances and valve areas. plished percutaneously via the femoral approach. Th ose with Fluoroscopy and cineangiography are essential components occluded femoral veins or with cavopulmonary connections of most cardiac catheterizations studies. Of the two, cineangi- may require venous access through an internal jugular vein. In ography accounts for the majority of the radiation exposure general, most examinations involve hemodynamic evaluation during the procedure as images are recorded during the injec- with recording of pressure data through catheters positioned at tion of contrast material typically at 15 or 30 frames per second.317 various sites of interest. Oxygen saturation data are obtained by Most angiograms are obtained during biplane imaging by posi- refl ectance oximetry or blood gas measurement from various tioning the equipment to obtain optimal views that allow for cardiac chambers and vessels. It is important to recognize that delineation of the pathology in question (axial angiography) in contrast to the oxygen saturation calculations derived from a (Video Clip 14-17).318,319 blood gas analysis, refl ectance oximetry assessments are actually Although cardiac catheterization has evolved over the years measured values. Th is allows for the determination of oxygen providing improved safety, it is an invasive procedure involving content (total amount of hemoglobin in the blood) and, when a number of risks and potential for morbidity and mortality, combined with values
