A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


safety, it is an invasive procedure involving content (total amount of hemoglobin in the blood) and, when a number of risks and potential for morbidity and mortality, combined with values of oxygen consumption, for the assess- albeit relatively small. Risks associated with cardiac catheteriza- 325 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children I II ART (100) PA (100) ART (100) ART PA ART On oxygen Figure 14-30. Cardiac catheterization pressure recording displays a typical hemodynamic tracing (scales are the same for both pressures). Note that the pulmonary artery systolic pressures are at systemic levels in this child with multiple left-sided obstructions. ART, systemic arterial pressure; PA, pulmonary artery pressure. A B C D E F Figure 14-31. Catheter-based procedures. Upper panel: (A), balloon atrial septostomy; (B), blade atrial septostomy; (C), mitral balloon valvuloplasty. Lower panel: (D), placement of ductal occluder device; (E), transcatheter closure of secundum atrial septal defect; (F), pulmonary artery dilation with stent placement. 326 14 it nio fen c tin ioc nlu , d are r he yx tc he mssi iv ae s, b vl ao so cd u lalo r/s cs a, rv da is ac cu pla er r fc oo ram tip ol nic ,3a 2t 2i o syn ss t, e32 m0,3 i2 c1 Q(cid:2) p/Q(cid:2) s=( (S Pa Vo o2− −M PAV oo 2 )) air embolization, myocardial ischemia, and those associated 2 2 with the administration of contrast agents. Th ese are more likely where Sao = systemic arterial O saturation, MVo = mixed to occur in infants and small children.323 Although transient venous O 2 saturation, PVo = pulm2 onary venous O s2 aturation, 2 2 2 increases in body temperature may occur after a study, the inci- and PAo = pulmonary arterial O saturation. dence of endocarditis is extremely rare. Interventional catheter- . 2 . 2 A Qp : Qs ratio that exceeds 3 : 1 is considered a signifi cant izations, by the nature of the procedures, are associated with a shunt, although smaller ratios may be associated with signifi cant greater rate of complications. However, as transcatheter inter- symptomatology. ventions become safer and more eff ective, an increasing number of children may obviate the need for surgery, often undergoing Cardiac Output Determinations procedures on an outpatient basis.324 New techniques continue Th e volume of blood ejected by the heart into the systemic cir- to evolve
