A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


for surgery, often undergoing Cardiac Output Determinations procedures on an outpatient basis.324 New techniques continue Th e volume of blood ejected by the heart into the systemic cir- to evolve in this fi eld, such as the percutaneous placement of culation, or cardiac output, can be derived in several ways. valves,325 strategies that combine cardiac catheterization and Th ermodilution measurements use saline as an indicator to surgical intervention, so-called hybrid procedures,326-328 and measure pulmonary blood fl ow. In the absence of intracardiac catheter-based interventions during fetal life.329 shunts this is equivalent to the systemic blood fl ow or cardiac output (expressed as liters per minute). In the Fick method, Practical Concepts Regarding the Interpretation of a oxygen is used as an indicator and cardiac output is obtained by Cardiac Catheterization Report the application of the following formula: . Pressure Data Qs (L/min) = Vo 2 (L/min)/Sao 2 content − MVo 2 content Atrial pressure tracings are characterized by several waves (a, c, where Vo = oxygen consumption (assumed or measured), Sao 2 2 and v waves) and descents (x and y). Th e right atrial pressure is = systemic arterial O content, MVo = mixed venous O content, 2 2 2 typically “a” wave dominant. Th e mean right atrial pressure is and O content = O saturation × (1.36 × 10 × hemoglobin 2 2 normally less than 5 mm Hg. In the presence of signifi cant tri- concentration). cuspid valve regurgitation or a junctional rhythm, the “v” wave becomes the dominant wave. Th e left atrial pressure tracing in Vascular Resistances contrast to the right atrium, displays “v” wave dominance, which Resistance represents the change in pressure in the systemic or is accentuated during mitral regurgitation. Th e mean left atrial pulmonary circulation with respect to fl ow. Th is is expressed as pressure rarely exceeds 8 mm Hg. Th e reported values for atrial mm Hg/L/min (Wood units) and is usually normalized for body pressures correspond to the “a” and “v” waves and mean pres- surface area. sures. Ventricular pressures are recorded and reported during Th e systemic (SVR) and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) systole, at end systole, and at end diastole. For the right ventricle are derived as follows: the systolic pressure is normally in the 25- to 30-mm Hg range, . with end-diastolic pressure of 5 to 7 mm Hg. Th e systolic pres- SVR
