A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


derived as follows: the systolic pressure is normally in the 25- to 30-mm Hg range, . with end-diastolic pressure of 5 to 7 mm Hg. Th e systolic pres- SVR = (aortic mean pressure − right atrial mean pressure)/Qs sure in the left ventricle normally increases with age and should PVR = (pulmonary artery mean pressure − pulmonary equal the systolic arterial pressure; the end-diastolic pressure is . capillary wedge pressure or left atrial pressure)/Qp typically less than 10 mm Hg. Th e pulmonary artery pressure is reported in terms of systolic, diastolic, and mean pressures. Th e systolic pulmonary artery pressure in a normal child should be equal to the right ventricular systolic pressure, and the mean Considerations in the Perioperative pulmonary artery pressure should not exceed 20 mm Hg. Th e Care of Children with pulmonary artery wedge pressure is obtained by advancing a catheter into a distal vessel until this is occluded, refl ecting the Cardiovascular Disease left atrial pressure. Th e aortic pressure and contour of the tracing varies depending of the site of interrogation. Typically, General Issues there is an increase in the systolic pressure as the catheter navi- Th e anesthetic care of children with heart disease330 is chal- gates toward the peripheral circulation. Th is phenomenon is lenged by the following factors: known as “pulse wave amplifi cation.” ● Th e remarkable spectrum of disease, from structural defects Pressure gradients represent the diff erences between two dis- to acquired pathology tinct sites and can be measured in a number of ways (mean ● Th e wide range of congenital lesions and their underlying gradient and peak gradient). It is important to consider that a physiologic consequences number of factors may aff ect the determination of pressure ● Th e numerous surgical procedures in CHD (Table 14-4) and gradients. Th e fl ow across the lesion is signifi cantly infl uenced their hemodynamic implications by the severity of the obstruction and the ventricular function. ● Th e fact that many parents are unaware of the full extent or details of their child’s lesion or abnormalities Shunt Calculations At the same time, to optimally care for these patients the Shunts are characterized in terms of their direction (left-to- following objectives should be met: right, right-to-left, bidirectional) and magnitude. Left-to-right ● Familiarity with the cardiovascular pathology shunts can be quantifi ed based on the ratio of
