A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


their direction (left-to- following objectives should be met: right, right-to-left, bidirectional) and magnitude. Left-to-right ● Familiarity with the cardiovascular pathology shunts can be quantifi ed based on the ratio of the pulmonary ● Understanding of the physiologic abnormalities and available . . (Qp) to systemic (Qs) blood fl ow ratio as follows: therapies 327 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children Table 14-4. Surgical Procedures for Congenital Heart Disease Procedure Description Goal/Result Arterial switch (Jatene) operation Arterial trunks transected above the level Establishes the normal ventricular-arterial connection of the semilunar valves, relocated to their (right ventricle to pulmonary artery and left ventricle appropriate respective ventricles, coronary to aorta) arteries reimplanted into the neoaortic root Atrioventriculoseptal defect Patch closure of atrial and ventricular Eliminates the intracardiac shunt (atrioventricular canal) repair communications, reconstruction of atrioventricular valves, closure of cleft in left-sided atrioventricular valve Blalock-Taussig shunt Subclavian artery to pulmonary artery Allows for or increases pulmonary blood fl ow communication. Modifi ed implies placement of a graft. Central shunt, Waterston shunt, Creation of communication between Allows for or increases pulmonary blood fl ow Pott shunt systemic and pulmonary circulations Closure of septal defects Patch or primary closure of Eliminates the intracardiac shunt communications at the atrial or ventricular levels Coarctation repair Relief of aortic arch obstruction (various Establishes patency across the aortic arch approaches) Damus-Kaye-Stansel End-to-side anastomosis of main Allows for unobstructed systemic outfl ow in the pulmonary artery onto the aorta. context of single ventricle associated with obstruction Necessitates reestablishing pulmonary to aortic fl ow or other settings blood fl ow via an alternative route (graft from a systemic artery into the pulmonary artery or a right ventricular to pulmonary artery conduit) Division/ligation of patent Obliteration of the ductus arteriosus Eliminates shunting at the level of the great arteries ductus arteriosus Fontan procedure Connection that allows for inferior vena Separates the pulmonary and systemic circulations in cava blood to drain into pulmonary patients with single ventricle physiology. Usually fi nal circulation step in the single-ventricle palliation pathway. Glenn anastomosis Superior vena cava to pulmonary artery Provides for pulmonary blood fl ow while unloading (cavopulmonary connection) direct anastomosis (bidirectional implies the single ventricle. May be fi rst or intermediate step fl ow from superior vena cava into both in the single-ventricle palliation pathway. pulmonary arteries) Konno-Rastan procedure Enlargement of the left ventricular Alleviates subvalvar and valvar aortic obstruction. (aortoventriculoplasty) outfl ow tract
