A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


from superior vena cava into both in the single-ventricle palliation pathway. pulmonary arteries) Konno-Rastan procedure Enlargement of the left ventricular Alleviates subvalvar and valvar aortic obstruction. (aortoventriculoplasty) outfl ow tract and aortic annulus. The When the aortic root is replaced by an autologous defect created in the ventricular septum pulmonary root this is referred to as a Ross-Konno. to enlarge the outfl ow tract is repaired Alternatively, cryopreserved homograft tissue may be with a large patch. used in the form of an extended root replacement. Norwood procedure (stage I Involves aortic reconstruction, an atrial Addresses systemic outfl ow tract obstruction by palliation) septectomy, and placement of a systemic- allowing the right ventricle to eject into a to-pulmonary artery shunt reconstructed aorta. The atrial septectomy provides for unobstructed drainage of the pulmonary venous return into the right atrium. The systemic-to- pulmonary artery shunt supplies the pulmonary blood fl ow. Pulmonary artery banding Constrictive band placed around main Limits excessive pulmonary blood fl ow pulmonary artery Rastelli operation Creation of an intracardiac tunnel that Allows for the left ventricle to eject solely into the allows for left ventricular output into the aorta at the same time as it abolishes the intracardiac aorta while closing a ventricular septal shunting at the ventricular level and provides for defect and placement of a right unobstructed pulmonary blood fl ow. The procedure ventricular conduit to pulmonary artery results in separation of the pulmonary and systemic circulations. 328 14 Table 14-4 (continued). Surgical Procedures for Congenital Heart Disease Procedure Description Goal/Result Sano modifi cation of the Placement of graft between the right Provides for pulmonary blood fl ow Norwood procedure ventricle and main pulmonary artery as an alternative to a modifi ed Blalock-Taussig shunt in the Norwood operation Senning/Mustard procedure Intra-atrial baffl e procedure Allows for pulmonary venous blood to be rerouted (atrial switch) through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle (as the systemic chamber that ejects into the aorta). At the same time the systemic venous return is channeled across the mitral valve into the left ventricle, which pumps into the main pulmonary artery. Tetralogy of Fallot repair Closure of ventricular septal defect and Eliminates intracardiac shunting at the ventricular relief of right ventricular outfl ow tract level (cyanosis) and addresses the right ventricular obstruction outfl ow tract obstruction (frequently at several levels) Truncus arteriosus repair Closure of the ventricular septal defect Abolishes the intracardiac
