A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children
KEYWORDS: children, cardiac, ventricular, heart, pulmonary, disease, left, right, include, atrial, artery, blood, pressure, qrs, normal


hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure above opportunity for an exchange of information, discussion of con- 30 mm Hg), increased pulmonary vascular resistance index (>2 cerns, and recommendations that may facilitate patient care as Woods units · m2) or polycythemia (hematocrit >60%). In addi- well as the development of comprehensive care plans.331 Th is is tion, the following clinical states may place children at signifi - particularly important in the management of children with cant risk for severe cardiopulmonary decompensation during complex pathologic processes. anesthesia and surgery: history of recent congestive heart failure, A complete medical history and focused examination is uncontrolled arrhythmias, severe ventricular dysfunction, unex- essential during the preoperative assessment. In addition to pro- plained syncope, substantial exercise intolerance, or any condi- viding the opportunity for evaluation of the child’s disease pro- tion associated with signifi cant functional cardiac or pulmonary cesses, overall clinical status, and functional reserve, this allows impairment. for appraisal of issues that may aff ect anesthetic management (limited vascular access, diffi cult airway, gastroesophageal Clinical Condition and Status of Prior Repair refl ux, manipulations to manage pulmonary and systemic blood Children with CHD may present for anesthetic care before fl ow and pressures). Available diagnostic studies should be catheter-based or surgical interventions for their cardiovascular reviewed (e.g., ECG, chest radiograph, echocardiogram, Holter disease or after palliation or defi nitive procedures. It is impor- monitor, cardiac catheterization). On occasion, depending on tant to recognize that true “corrective procedures” are those that 329 A Practice of Anesthesia for Infants and Children result in a normal life expectancy and normal cardiovascular include those with residual signifi cant pathology; suspected or reserve.332 Th ey generally require no further medical or surgical known pulmonary hypertension, single-ventricle physiology treatment. As such, only a few procedures fulfi ll these criteria: (including patients post Norwood procedures, Glenn opera- ligation/division/occlusion of a patent ductus arteriosus and tions, or Fontan palliations), and after conduit placement or closure of an isolated secundum atrial septal defect. Other inter- cardiac transplantation (see Chapters 15, 16, and 21). ventions or surgical procedures may result in repair or “correc- tion,” however not necessarily in normal hemodynamics or life Summary expectancy. In fact, some assume limitation in cardiovascular reserve and the need for close follow-up, further medical man- Caring for children with heart disease is a major aspect of agement, and potential or additional surgical therapies. In other pediatric anesthesia practice.
