Secondary prevention after a myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: cardiac, rehabilitation, hospital, cardiac rehabilitation, data, quality, programme, adults, statement, assessment, discharge, local, treatment, source, referred


done before a person leaves hospital. Source guidance Acute coronary syndromes. NICE guideline NG185 (2020), recommendations 1.1.27 and 1.2.27 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Assessment of left ventricular function Left ventricular function can be assessed using a variety of methods, including echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), angiography and nuclear imaging. [Expert opinion] Quality statement 2: Referral for cardiac rehabilitation Quality statement Adults admitted to hospital with a myocardial infarction (MI) are referred for cardiac rehabilitation before discharge. Rationale Cardiac rehabilitation aims to address the underlying causes of cardiovascular disease and improve physical and mental health after a heart attack. Cardiac rehabilitation encourages a healthy lifestyle which slows the progression of heart disease. It also reduces the risk of dying prematurely, especially as a result of a heart attack or stroke. People who are referred to rehabilitation programmes before they are discharged from hospital have better rates of uptake and adherence and improved clinical outcomes. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults admitted to hospital with an MI are referred for cardiac rehabilitation before discharge. Data source: Local data collection. Process Proportion of discharges from hospital after an MI where the patient was referred for cardiac rehabilitation while in hospital. Numerator – the number in the denominator where the patient was referred for cardiac rehabilitation while in hospital. Denominator – the number of discharges from hospital after an MI. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome Uptake rates of cardiac rehabilitation programmes. Data source: Local data collection. National data on the uptake of cardiac rehabilitation are available from the British Heart Foundation National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation (NACR). What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary and tertiary care services) ensure that adults admitted to hospital with an MI are referred for cardiac rehabilitation while they are in hospital. Healthcare professionals refer adults admitted to hospital with an MI for cardiac rehabilitation while they are in hospital. Commissioners commission services that have the capacity and expertise to refer adults admitted to hospital with an MI for cardiac rehabilitation while they are in hospital. Adults who are admitted to hospital with a heart attack are referred
