Secondary prevention after a myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: cardiac, rehabilitation, hospital, cardiac rehabilitation, data, quality, programme, adults, statement, assessment, discharge, local, treatment, source, referred


expertise to refer adults admitted to hospital with an MI for cardiac rehabilitation while they are in hospital. Adults who are admitted to hospital with a heart attack are referred to a cardiac rehabilitation programme while they are in hospital. A cardiac rehabilitation programme includes exercise sessions, information about health and lifestyle changes and how to cope with stress. This helps to slow down or stop heart disease and to reduce the risk of a heart attack or stroke in the future. Source guidance Acute coronary syndromes. NICE guideline NG185 (2020), recommendations 1.8.1 and 1.8.13 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Cardiac rehabilitation Cardiac rehabilitation is a coordinated and structured programme designed to remove or reduce the underlying causes of cardiovascular disease. It provides the best possible physical, mental and social conditions so that people can, by their own efforts, continue to play a full part in their community. A healthier lifestyle and slowed or reversed progression of cardiovascular disease can also be achieved. [NICE's full guideline on acute coronary syndromes] Cardiac rehabilitation programmes should include a range of interventions with health education, lifestyle advice, stress management and physical exercise components. [NICE's guideline on acute coronary syndromes, recommendations 1.8.1 and 1.8.19] Quality statement 3: Communication with primary care Quality statement Adults admitted to hospital with a myocardial infarction (MI) have the results of investigations and a plan for future treatment and monitoring shared with their GP. Rationale People with an MI have cardiac investigations in hospital – clear communication of these results to primary care in a discharge summary ensures that people receive the right treatment after they leave hospital. Other key information to be shared with the GP includes future treatment, including incomplete drug titrations, plans for further revascularisation procedures and plans for antiplatelet and anticoagulant treatment. A clear plan for monitoring blood pressure and renal function ensures that people are on the correct drug dose after they leave hospital. Finally, it is also important for GPs to know that people have been referred for cardiac rehabilitation to encourage them to attend. Ensuring that this information is included in a discharge summary will improve clinical outcomes, patient experience and continuity of care between primary and secondary or tertiary care services. This is especially important for people who have had hospital treatment for an MI outside of their local area. Quality measures The following measures can be used
