Secondary prevention after a myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: cardiac, rehabilitation, hospital, cardiac rehabilitation, data, quality, programme, adults, statement, assessment, discharge, local, treatment, source, referred


tertiary care services. This is especially important for people who have had hospital treatment for an MI outside of their local area. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults admitted to hospital with an MI have the results of investigations and a plan for future treatment and monitoring shared with their GP. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of discharges from hospital after an MI where the patient had the results of investigations shared with their GP. Numerator – the number in the denominator where the patient had the results of investigations shared with their GP. Denominator – the number of discharges from hospital after an MI. Data source: Local data collection. b) Proportion of discharges from hospital after an MI where the patient had plans for future treatment and monitoring shared with their GP. Numerator – the number in the denominator where the patient had plans for future treatment and monitoring shared with their GP. Denominator – the number of discharges from hospital after an MI. Data source: Local data collection. Outcome a) Readmission rates. Data source:NHS Digital national data on emergency readmissions within 30 days of discharge from hospital. b) Rates of uptake and adherence to cardiac rehabilitation. Data source: Local data collection. c) Patient experience of GP services. Data source: Local data collection. What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary and tertiary care services) ensure that adults discharged from hospital after an MI have the results of investigations and a plan for future treatment and monitoring shared with their GP. Healthcare professionals include the results of investigations and a plan for future treatment and monitoring in the GP discharge summary for adults discharged from hospital after an MI. Commissioners commission services that provide GP discharge summaries for adults discharged from hospital after an MI. The GP discharge summaries should include the results of investigations and a plan for future treatment and monitoring. Adults who are admitted to hospital with a heart attack have a letter sent to their GP, which includes the results of any tests and a plan for treatment and monitoring in the future. This helps to make sure
