Secondary prevention after a myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: cardiac, rehabilitation, hospital, cardiac rehabilitation, data, quality, programme, adults, statement, assessment, discharge, local, treatment, source, referred


attack have a letter sent to their GP, which includes the results of any tests and a plan for treatment and monitoring in the future. This helps to make sure that people get the right treatment after they leave hospital and start a programme to improve their long-term health (cardiac rehabilitation) as soon as possible. Source guidance Acute coronary syndromes. NICE guideline NG185 (2020), recommendations 1.4.2, 1.4.28 and 1.7.1 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Results of investigations People admitted to hospital with an MI may have several investigations of cardiac function while in hospital. These may include coronary angiography and should include assessment of left ventricular function. [Expert opinion] Plan for future treatment and monitoring A plan for future treatment and monitoring after an MI should include details of: • any further revascularisation procedures • any drug titrations that need to be completed by the GP • duration of antiplatelet treatment • duration of any anticoagulant treatment • blood pressure and renal function monitoring • referral for cardiac rehabilitation. [Expert opinion] Quality statement 4: Cardiac rehabilitation – assessment appointment Quality statement Adults referred to a cardiac rehabilitation programme after a myocardial infarction (MI) have an assessment appointment within 10 days of discharge from hospital. Rationale Starting cardiac rehabilitation as soon as possible after a heart attack significantly improves ongoing attendance at cardiac rehabilitation programmes. Cardiac rehabilitation improves clinical outcomes and is cost saving through a reduction in unplanned re-admissions for cardiac problems. An assessment appointment within 10 days of discharge ensures that people have contact with a member of the cardiac rehabilitation team as soon as possible. Because some people may not be able to drive or may not be ready for physical assessment within 10 days of discharge, this appointment can be an outpatient appointment, a home visit or a telephone interview. Quality measures The following measures can be used to assess the quality of care or service provision specified in the statement. They are examples of how the statement can be measured, and can be adapted and used flexibly. Structure Evidence of local arrangements to ensure that adults referred to a cardiac rehabilitation programme after an MI have an assessment appointment within 10 days of discharge from hospital. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of referrals to a cardiac rehabilitation programme from hospital where the patient attends an assessment appointment within 10 days
