Secondary prevention after a myocardial infarction
KEYWORDS: cardiac, rehabilitation, hospital, cardiac rehabilitation, data, quality, programme, adults, statement, assessment, discharge, local, treatment, source, referred


discharge from hospital. Data source: Local data collection. Process a) Proportion of referrals to a cardiac rehabilitation programme from hospital where the patient attends an assessment appointment within 10 days of discharge after an MI. Numerator – the number in the denominator where the patient attends an assessment appointment within 10 days of discharge. Denominator – the number of referrals to a cardiac rehabilitation programme from hospital after admission for an MI. Data source: Local data collection. National data on adherence to cardiac rehabilitation are available from the British Heart Foundation National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation (NACR). Outcome Uptake rates of cardiac rehabilitation programmes. Data source: Local data collection. National data on the uptake of cardiac rehabilitation are available from the British Heart Foundation National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation (NACR). What the quality statement means for different audiences Service providers (secondary and tertiary care services) ensure that adults referred to a cardiac rehabilitation programme after an MI can have an assessment appointment within 10 days of discharge. Healthcare professionals ensure that adults referred to a cardiac rehabilitation programme after an MI have an assessment appointment within 10 days of discharge. Commissioners commission services that have the capacity to give adults referred to a cardiac rehabilitation programme after an MI an assessment appointment within 10 days of discharge. Adults referred to a cardiac rehabilitation programme after a heart attack have an appointment for an assessment within 10 days of leaving hospital. Starting cardiac rehabilitation as soon as possible encourages people to take part in the programme and makes it more likely that they will carry on. Source guidance Acute coronary syndromes. NICE guideline NG185 (2020), recommendation 1.8.13 Definitions of terms used in this quality statement Assessment appointment An assessment appointment is the first session of a cardiac rehabilitation programme. The session includes advice on lifestyle and risk factors and an assessment of the person's cardiac function and suitability for different components of the programme. The assessment appointment can be an outpatient appointment, a home visit or a telephone interview. Cardiac rehabilitation Cardiac rehabilitation is defined as a coordinated and structured programme designed to remove or reduce the underlying causes of cardiovascular disease, as well as to provide the best possible physical, mental and social conditions, so that people can, by their own efforts, continue to play a full part in their community. A healthier lifestyle and slowed or reversed progression of
