Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


ABSTRACT Men continue to have a strong interest and commitment to effective family planning. Traditional methods of male contraception have long included periodic abstinence, non-vaginal ejaculation, condoms, and vasectomy, the latter two representing physical methods that bar sperm from reaching the site of fertilization. However, for male contraception the reversible methods are not reliable, and the only highly reliable method (vasectomy) is not intended to be reversible or simple to reverse. During the 20 th century, a wide array of reversible and highly reliable female hormonal contraceptive methods were developed and no new methods for male contraception have been introduced for centuries. For men to share more equally the burdens as well as the benefits of family planning, more effective reversible male contraceptive methods need to be available. Most studies into male contraception have been conducted with hormonal methods, analogous to well-known female hormonal contraceptives, making them the closest to introducing a reliable, reversible male contraceptive method. The most promising hormonal approach is the combination of an androgen (usually testosterone) with a progestin, and multiple studies have shown such combinations of depot steroids displays high contraceptive efficacy, based on reliable and reversible suppression of sperm output, with few side effects. While research into novel methods for male fertility regulation has continued in the public sector, private sector research into male contraception, essential for effective commercial product development, has stalled in recent decades representing a market failure, where private and public, medical and public health demands are not met by the market. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . BACKGROUND A male contraceptive must reduce the number of ejaculated fertile sperm entering the vagina to levels that reliably prevent fertilization ( 1 ). Conception can be prevented by diverting or suppressing sperm output and/or inhibiting sperm motility or fertilizing capacity. So far, all male methods depend on physical means to reduce female exposure to sperm using either traditional device-free methods (abstinence, withdrawal, non-vaginal intercourse) or condoms and vasectomy. Unfortunately, among current male contraceptive options, the reversible methods are not reliable, and the reliable method is not intended or easily reversed No new male contraceptive methods were introduced during the 20 th century contrasting with highly reliable, reversible hormonal contraceptives developed for women over the last half century. Yet male involvement in family planning remains extensive. Globally, one third of couples using
