Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


century contrasting with highly reliable, reversible hormonal contraceptives developed for women over the last half century. Yet male involvement in family planning remains extensive. Globally, one third of couples using contraception rely on methods requiring active male participation ( 2 ) and current male methods remain (together with medicated intrauterine devices) the most cost-effective contraceptive methods in the USA ( 3 ). While reflecting traditional and ongoing reliance of family planning on male involvement, greater participation by men in sharing the burdens as well as the benefits of effective family planning require developing more effective, reversible male methods. Such greater participation could ameliorate the still large unmet need for contraception globally as 40% of pregnancies are still unintended with half of unintended pregnancies ending in abortion with higher rates in developed countries ( 4 ). Family planning must always remain a matter of personal choice by couples. This is highlighted by the human rights abuses of coercive national family planning programs enforcing family limitation (“one-child family”), including through forced sterilization and abortion, in India and China ( 5 , 6 ). Such coercive national programs originated in the 1970’s prompted by uncritical belief in the “population explosion”, notably from influential publications such as the Club of Rome’s “Limits to Growth” and Ehrlich’s “Population Bomb”, now discredited by their failed, alarmist predictions which led to perverse outcomes including forced abortion and female infanticide. India’s forced sterilization program was overturned by popular democratic action within a few years of its imposition whereas China’s one-child family policy operated for nearly 4 decades before its ending in 2016 ( 5 ). These issues echo in medical mistrust as a barrier to acceptance of male contraception among the Black American minority ( 7 ). Comprehensive reviews of male contraception from Andrology Societies are available ( 8 ). Extensive public sector clinical research over the last 4 decades ( 9 ), despite minimal pharmaceutical industry involvement, has proven in principle that hormonal male contraception is feasible. Proof-of-principle is established for androgen-based hormonal suppression of spermatogenesis ( 10 ) achieving full reversibility ( 11 ), sufficient short-term safety ( 12 ) and acceptability to men and women ( 13 , 14 ) culminating in the crucial proof of reliable contraceptive efficacy using androgen alone ( 15 - 18 ) or depot ( 19 ) or daily use ( 20 ) androgen-progestin combinations. Demographic modelling shows that introducing
