Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


of reliable contraceptive efficacy using androgen alone ( 15 - 18 ) or depot ( 19 ) or daily use ( 20 ) androgen-progestin combinations. Demographic modelling shows that introducing new male contraceptive methods, even if adopted by only a minority of men, would significantly reduce unintended pregnancies in Nigeria, South Africa, and the USA ( 21 ). Surveys of participants in clinical male contraceptive studies suggest that men may prefer a male contraceptive to be provided by their family doctor rather than specialists ( 22 ); however, the practical knowledge of non-specialists remains unsatisfactory and would require specific training ( 23 ). In addition to boutique contraception for adventurous early adopters, practical niches for male contraception include contraception after birth, during breast-feeding, or after abortion ( 24 , 25 ). Nevertheless, despite the proof-of-principle, strong community interest, and medical priority on the need for new, reversible male contraceptives, pharmaceutical industry development has ceased. This market failure reflects pharmaceutical industry perceptions of low profitability coupled with high risk in the context where a better return on investment is expected for developing drugs in more lucrative, less risky areas of chronic disease compared with the higher product liability risk of developing novel contraceptives for healthy men to compete with existing low-cost female methods. The possibility that Western market failure might be overcome if the growing perception of needs for voluntary family planning as a national priority in rapidly industrializing countries such as China, India and Brazil ( 26 ) were advocated by governments; however, that has proved a failed hope. This market failure echoes that for female hormonal contraception till the philanthropist Katherine McCormack ( 27 ) was introduced in 1953 to Gregory Pincus, the scientific developer of hormonal female contraception, at the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology ( 28 ). McCormack’s contributions of $2 million was the sole funding for development of female hormonal contraception, singlehandedly overcoming the market failure at the time from disinterest of government, medical institutions, universities & pharma. Novel approaches to finance further research such philanthropic private sector funding ( 29 ) and public-private partnerships ( 30 ) have been developed. The 2022 overturning by the US Supreme Court of what was long accepted tacitly as a constitutional right to abortion although lacking specific constitutional basis has refreshed interest in developing wider coverage of effective contraception, including for men, to reduce the demand for abortion. The
