Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


a constitutional right to abortion although lacking specific constitutional basis has refreshed interest in developing wider coverage of effective contraception, including for men, to reduce the demand for abortion. The regulatory challenges of registering a new male contraceptive are formidable because the regulatory precedents and guidelines that have developed over decades for female hormonal contraception may not transfer easily or directly to male contraceptives ( 31 , 32 ). Public sector research by WHO and other agencies has established a strong surrogate for contraceptive efficacy because hormonal suppression of spermatogenesis to sperm output consistently lower than 1 million sperm per ml corresponds to highly effective prevention of pregnancy in a female partner ( 33 ). Extension to home testing kits and to other aspects of sperm function (motility, morphology) remain to be firmly established. NON-HORMONAL METHODS Traditional Methods PERIODIC ABSTINENCE Although theoretically effective, - celibacy is an acceptable or practical contraceptive method. Periodic abstinence, the limiting of sexual intercourse to “safe” days ( 34 ), has high contraceptive efficacy if the rules are followed perfectly but the failure rates rise steeply with rule breaking ( 35 ). This cost- and device-free method is used by >40 million couples world-wide for family planning ( 2 ). The typical use 1 st year failure rate is ~25% with ~47% of couples continuing use at 1 year in USA ( 36 ) but 8% and 52%, respectively, in France ( 37 , 38 ). While inherently safe, it has limited acceptability due to low reliability, inflexibility, and interference in the spontaneity of sex. EX-VAGINAL EJACULATION Withdrawal is a traditional drug and device-free male method of contraception whereby intercourse culminates in extra-vaginal ejaculation ( 39 ). Often overlooked as a contraceptive method, withdrawal, together with abortion, was the major pre-industrial method of family planning largely responsible for the demographic transition from high to relatively low birth rates in industrial nation states and continues to be used by 40 million couples ( 2 ). This cost- and device-free method has limited reliability in its demanding requirement for skill and self-control. The typical use 1 st year failure rate is 18-22% with 46% continuing use at 1 year in the USA ( 36 , 40 ) and 10% and 55%, respectively, in France ( 37 , 38 ). While safe and reasonably effective for experienced users, interfering with the pleasure of coitus leads to a correspondingly
