Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


and 10% and 55%, respectively, in France ( 37 , 38 ). While safe and reasonably effective for experienced users, interfering with the pleasure of coitus leads to a correspondingly high failure rate in practice. Other sexual practices that avoid intravaginal ejaculation have also been used traditionally to avoid conception. These include masturbation, oral and anal intercourse, deliberate anejaculation (orgasm without release of sperm) as well as spontaneous or iatrogenic retrograde ejaculation ( 41 ). CONDOM After centuries of use in preventing sexually transmitted infections and pregnancy, now over 50 million couples rely on condoms for contraception ( 2 ). Condoms provide safe, cheap, widely available, user-controlled, and reversible contraception with few side-effects. In case of latex allergy, non-rubber (polyurethane, natural membrane) condoms can be substituted but are less effective for contraception and prevention of infection. Latex condoms are moderately effective at preventing pregnancy with a typical 1 st year failure rate of 18% with 43% continuing use at 1 year in the USA ( 36 , 40 ) and 3.3% and 47%, respectively, in France ( 37 , 38 ). Recent US data suggest a reduction in failure rate to 13% ( 42 ). The discrepancy from the estimated 2% perfect-use failure rate ( 36 ) is mainly to human error, notably rushed use ( 43 ), misuse, or non-use rather than mechanical failure (breakage or slippage) ( 44 ). Differences in contraceptive use behaviors may explain lower reported 1 st year failure rates for condoms in France ( 38 ). The major limitations of condoms for contraception are relatively high failure rates and interference with sexuality. The requirement for regular and correct application during foreplay disturbs the spontaneity of sex and dulls erotic sensation. These aesthetic drawbacks limit the popularity of condoms especially among stable couples ( 45 ). Latex condoms are perishable through tears or snagging on fingernails, clothing, or jewelry as well as deterioration from exposure to light, heat, humidity, or organic oils. Polyurethane condoms with improved tactile sensitivity were developed in the 1990’s to enhance acceptability ( 46 ), but they have shown reduced efficacy and mechanical performance compared with latex condoms in prospective randomized controlled clinical trials ( 47 ). Although the theoretical requirements for condom use to protect against sexually transmitted infections differ from those to prevent pregnancy, in practice the protections are similar ( 48 ). Laboratory testing of condoms standardizes integrity
