Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


for condom use to protect against sexually transmitted infections differ from those to prevent pregnancy, in practice the protections are similar ( 48 ). Laboratory testing of condoms standardizes integrity and durability for strength and leakage. Although viral penetration is not routinely tested, synthetic (latex or polyurethane) but not natural membrane condoms are not perfect at preventing passage of prototype human pathogenic viruses ( 49 ). Using a sensitive, objective biochemical marker (PSA) for seminal plasma exposure in vaginal swabs, vaginal exposure to semen was reduced by 50-80% even after mechanical condom failure (breakage, slippage) ( 50 ). Novel spermicides with virucidal properties that are being developed to provide dual antimicrobial and contraceptive protection ( 51 ) might not enhance condom efficacy for either function because non-compliance is the major cause of failure for both ( 44 ). VASECTOMY Vasectomy, used by over 40 million couples for family planning ( 2 ), varies widely in prevalence between countries depending upon cultural factors, public education, and availability of male-oriented facilities ( 52 ). Recent data suggests a steady decline in vasectomy in the US over the first two decades of the 21 st century ( 53 ). Having overcome a sordid history of applications to eugenics and other historical misadventures into the 20 th century ( 5 , 54 ), vasectomy is now more widely used than female sterilization in some economically developed countries although female sterilization remain ~4 times more frequent worldwide ( 55 ). For men having completed their family and fit for minor surgery, vasectomy is a very safe and highly effective office procedure ( 56 , 57 ). Relative contraindications include risks from office-type surgery (bleeding disorders, allergy to local anesthetic) or scrotal pathology (post-inguinal surgery scarring, keloid-proneness, active genitourinary or groin infections). Vasectomy is performed under local anesthesia via scrotal incisions and usually involves excising a segment of both vasa deferentia. Interposing a fascial barrier between the occluded cut ends significantly reduces the risk of failure due to recanalization ( 58 , 59 ). The Chinese-developed “no-scalpel” technique ( 60 ) minimizes skin incision and reduces immediate side-effects (bleeding, infection) 10-fold to 0.3% compared with conventional vasectomy ( 61 , 62 ). Chronic post-vasectomy pain ( 63 ) occurs with an estimated prevalence of ~15% at 7 months after vasectomy ( 64 ). It may be reported as groin or testicular pain precipitated or aggravated by
