Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


63 ) occurs with an estimated prevalence of ~15% at 7 months after vasectomy ( 64 ). It may be reported as groin or testicular pain precipitated or aggravated by intercourse, ejaculation or exertion and accompanied by tender, distended epididymides ( 63 , 64 ). Fascial interposition significantly reduces failure rate ( 59 , 65 ) so that, in the hands of an experienced practitioner, no-scalpel vasectomy with fascial interposition is now the method of choice ( 62 , 66 ). Additional studies suggest that cautery may further enhances reliability ( 67 , 68 ) and that leaving an open testicular end reduces retrograde pressure-related complications (pain, sperm granuloma, epididymal and testicular damage) thereby better preserving reversibility ( 69 - 71 ). Vasectomy is highly effective once sperm are cleared from the distal vasa deferentia. However, flushing with saline or water ( 72 - 76 ) or spermicides (nitrofurazone ( 77 ), euflavine ( 78 , 79 ) or chlorhexidine ( 80 )) during surgery does not accelerate sperm clearance, but the evidence remains weak ( 81 ). Non-irritant spermicides that inhibit sperm function without chemical sclerosis of the vasa that would impair potential reversibility, might have promise ( 82 ). Immediately following vasectomy, additional contraception must continue until azoospermia or near azoospermia (<0.1 million non-motile sperm per mL) is demonstrated usually at 3 months post-vasectomy when at least 95% of men reach this clearance criterion ( 83 - 86 ). Although azoospermia might occur sooner ( 87 ), reliable evidence is lacking to support the reliability of earlier time points as recanalization, where motile sperm persist in the ejaculate, may occur within the first few weeks after vasectomy ( 88 ) and persistence of motile sperm in the ejaculate indicates technical failure. Although detailed information on the rate of sperm clearance from the ejaculate after vasectomy remains sparse, time since vasectomy rather than number of ejaculations is more predictive of sperm clearance ( 87 ). Contraceptive failures are rare; early failures are most often due to not awaiting sperm clearance ( 89 ) or occasionally misidentification or duplication of the vasa deferentia whereas late failures are due to spontaneous vas(a) recanalization (~0.1%)( 90 ). Complications of vasectomy include post-surgical bleeding, wound or genito-urinary infections and fistulae, and chronic scrotal pain ( 57 , 91 ) with risk of death estimated at ~1 per million vasectomies in developed countries although
