Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


bleeding, wound or genito-urinary infections and fistulae, and chronic scrotal pain ( 57 , 91 ) with risk of death estimated at ~1 per million vasectomies in developed countries although higher in developing countries ( 92 ). Vasectomy causes no consistent changes in circulating hormones ( 93 ), sexual function or risk of cardiovascular or other diseases ( 56 , 94 , 95 ) including testicular cancer ( 96 - 98 ). A small increased risk of prostate cancer after vasectomy has been observed in case-control studies ( 99 - 101 ), but the increased risk is unaffected by vasectomy reversal ( 102 , 103 ). This risk seems to be attributable to surveillance and detection bias, rather than a biological effect as indicated by consistent evidence from numerous cohort studies ( 103 - 109 ). Sperm antibodies develop in most vasectomized men but have no known deleterious health effects apart from a possible role in reducing fertility after vasectomy reversal ( 110 ) when sperm antibody titers are very high (>512) ( 111 ). Vasectomy is a quick, simple, highly effective, and convenient method of permanent sterilization; its major drawback as a male contraceptive is its limited reversibility. Elective sperm cryostorage prior to vasectomy is feasible but may reflect ambivalence about the irreversible intent of vasectomy. Cumulative rate of requests for reversal, mostly prompted by remarriage, are 2.4% at 10 year post-vasectomy but exceed 10% for young men (aged <25 years at vasectomy) ( 112 ). Failed vasectomy reversal is now a significant cause of male infertility. Following microsurgical vasovasostomy, 80-100% have any sperm in the ejaculate (“patency”) but normal sperm concentration is less common, and cumulative conception rate at 12 months is only ~50% compared to 80-85% at 12 months in healthy young couples not using contraception ( 112 ). This discrepancy is most probably attributable to technical limitations of microsurgery as even the lowest reported rates of azoospermia (bilateral non-patency) after microsurgical vasovasostomy indicate that nearly half such men have at least one non-patent vas deferens ( 113 ) so that re-operation should be a prominent consideration if timely pregnancy does not ensue. After technical failure, the wife’s age and time since vasectomy appear to be the dominant predictors of successful reversal ( 114 , 115 ). Whether robotic microsurgery can improve the technical success of vasovasostomy to become a cost-effective and widely available alternative to human
