Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


dominant predictors of successful reversal ( 114 , 115 ). Whether robotic microsurgery can improve the technical success of vasovasostomy to become a cost-effective and widely available alternative to human microsurgery remains to be established ( 116 - 118 ). Reversibility is better with microsurgery ( 113 ), presence of sperm in the vasal fluids from testicular end of stump ( 119 ), in younger men with shorter duration since vasectomy ( 112 ), and possibly with longer testicular vasal stump ( 120 , 121 ); unfavorable predictors include non-microsurgical techniques, older age of wife (especially after 40 yr) ( 113 , 122 ), high titers of sperm antibodies ( 111 ), and long duration (>10 years) since vasectomy ( 123 - 125 ) due to long-term epididymal ( 126 ), vasal ( 127 ), and testicular damage ( 123 , 124 , 128 , 129 ). Experimentally in a variety of mammalian species, open-ended vasectomy is preferable to complete vas occlusion in preventing the back pressure-induced damage to spermatogenesis and seminiferous tubular integrity which are important contributors to failure of vasectomy reversal ( 130 , 131 ). An alternative to surgical vasectomy reversal either instead of, or after failed vaso-vasostomy, is sperm harvesting from epididymis or testis in conjunction with intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)/in-vitro fertilization. Currently cost-benefit analyses suggest that microsurgical vaso-vasostomy is more cost-effective and safer in both North America ( 132 ) and Europe ( 133 ), with the wife’s age being a key determinant ( 114 ). However, optimal management depends on local clinical expertise as well as access to microsurgery and reproductive technologies. The feasibility of successful vasectomy reversal has led to the proposal that, although vasectomy is intended as permanent, some individuals may consider it a reversible contraceptive method ( 134 ). USA national economic indicators strikingly influence rates of vasectomy and of vasectomy reversal, which are increased and decreased, respectively, according to the unemployment rate and personal income ( 135 ); whether this applies in countries with national health schemes that reduce financial limitations on access to elective health care remains unknown. Modern Methods VAS OCCLUSION The efficacy, safety, simplicity, and acceptability of vasectomy suggest that a reversible mechanical method of vasa occlusion would be an attractive male contraceptive option. Since vasectomy reversal is neither cheap nor widely available, more reversible vasa occlusion methods are needed ( 136 ). A nonsurgical, potentially reversible
