Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


would be an attractive male contraceptive option. Since vasectomy reversal is neither cheap nor widely available, more reversible vasa occlusion methods are needed ( 136 ). A nonsurgical, potentially reversible technique involving percutaneous injections of polymers that harden in-situ to form occluding plugs which might be later removed to restore fertility was reported ( 137 ) but, despite preliminary positive findings ( 138 ), formal evaluation showed vasa occlusion had lower efficacy (inducing azoospermia) than vasectomy ( 139 ). In a phase II randomized clinical trial, urethane-coated nylon thread intra-vasa devices were more acceptable with fewer complications but were less effective in producing azoospermia, compared with no-scalpel vasectomy ( 140 ). A hydrophilic gel, composed of co-polymer of styrene and maleic anhydride delivered in dimethyl sulfoxide, forms a charged spermicidal biopolymer when injected into the vas deferens that is stable but potentially removable. Experiments in rats favor sodium bicarbonate over dimethyl sulphoxide for intravasal injection for effective reversal of occlusion ( 141 ). Preliminary non-comparative clinical evaluation showed azoospermia in 12 men with no pregnancies in their wives for 12 months following intravasal injection suggesting effective vasal occlusion ( 142 ); however, some morphologically damaged and non-functional sperm persist in the ejaculate ( 143 ) but the mechanisms of the deleterious effects on sperm structure and function remain unexplained ( 144 ). In an extended multi-center phase III study of 139 fertile married men who had a single, bilateral intravasal injection of a styrene maleic anhydride copolymer in 120 µl of dimethyl sulphoxide solution (Reversible Inhibition of Sperm under Guidance, RISUG) were followed for six months after injection. In six men, the injections failed to be delivered, but in the remainder, 110 achieved azoospermia within 1 month and 23 achieved azoospermia 3 to 6 months after the procedure. After ceasing condom use in the first 2 months after injection, there were no pregnancies in the 133 men with successful occlusion over the next 4 months whereas pregnancies were reported in two of six men who had failed injections; however, reversibility was not reported ( 145 ). Another phase III randomized controlled clinical trial has shown that a prototype implantable non-occlusive intra-vasal device, comprising a nylon thread encased in barium-impregnated polyurethane, is as effective for sterilization as standard no-scalpel sterilization with no more adverse effects ( 146 ); however the reversibility of this device remains to be demonstrated. A promising development
