Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


is as effective for sterilization as standard no-scalpel sterilization with no more adverse effects ( 146 ); however the reversibility of this device remains to be demonstrated. A promising development for a reversible vas occlusion is a solution for transcutaneous intravasal injection which forms a hydrogel in the vas to reversibly occlude it ( 147 ). The injection solution, comprising sodium alginate conjugated with thioketal and including titanium dioxide and calcium chloride, transforms after injection into the vas deferens into an occluding hydrogel. Subsequently, the occluding hydrogel can be cleared in vivo by non-invasive application of ultrasound that generates reactive oxygen species in the hydrogel causing cleavage of the thioketal and recanalizing the vas deferens. Experimental studies in rats demonstrated fully effective contraception and reversibility ( 147 ). Other technical developments including percutaneous injection of sclerosants and transcutaneous delivery of physical agents (ultrasound, lasers) continue to be developed slowly ( 148 ). HEATING It has long been known ( 149 ) that even brief elevations of testicular temperature can profoundly suppress spermatogenesis ( 150 ) while sustained elevation may contribute to testicular pathology in cryptorchidism, varicocele, and occupational male infertility ( 151 ). A highly novel experimental approach has been reported using intravenously injected iron oxide nanoparticles that accumulate in the testis where they can be activated by an external alternating magnet field to generate testicular heating and damage to spermatogenesis ( 152 ); however, safe clinical application, and notably reversibility, remain to be demonstrated. Clinical studies evaluating the potential for tight scrotal supports as a practical male contraceptive method ( 153 , 154 ) showed a reversible decrease in sperm output but of inadequate magnitude for reliable contraception. Experience of small numbers of men utilizing thermal male contraception has been favorable, apart from discomfort ( 155 ) but wider uptake would require substantial population education ( 156 ). Given the dubious acceptability and safety ( 157 ) of heat-induced suppression of sperm output, the feasibility of a male contraceptive method based on testicular heating remains to be established. Nevertheless, the first acceptability study of thermal contraception reported on 72 users, of high socio-economic status, who switched from other contraceptive methods and reported satisfaction with the method despite discomfort from using it ( 155 ). IMMUNOCONTRACEPTION Sperm vaccines to interrupt fertility have long been of interest ( 158 ) with a 1937 patent issued for vaccination with semen ( 159
