Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


using it ( 155 ). IMMUNOCONTRACEPTION Sperm vaccines to interrupt fertility have long been of interest ( 158 ) with a 1937 patent issued for vaccination with semen ( 159 ). Sperm express unique epitopes within the immunologically protected adluminal compartment of the seminiferous tubules at puberty, long after the definition of immune self-tolerance hence explaining their potential autoimmunogenicity. Sperm autoimmunity may contribute to subfertility after vasectomy reversal and in ~7% of infertile otherwise healthy men (other than orchitis). Experimental models for an effective multivalent chimeric protein sperm vaccine targeting surface-expressed antigens involved in fertilization have been reported ( 160 ) but remain untested in men. Practical application of this method requires resolving problems of the millions of sperm ejaculated, representing a large antigenic load requiring virtually complete functional blockade, variability of individual immune responses, restricted access of antibodies into the seminiferous tubules and epididymis and the risks of autoimmune orchitis or immune-complex disease. Passive immunization may overcome the present limited predictability of active immunization with sperm antigens to reach quickly and maintain, as well as allowing for volitionally controllable offset, of effective immunocontraceptive titers ( 161 ). The smaller antigenic burden in the female reproductive tract requiring complete neutralization suggests that a sperm vaccine, using modern genetic engineering of sperm epitopes ( 162 ), may be better targeted for administration to women. However, the most suitable targets for contraceptive vaccines might be feral and wild animals ( 163 , 164 ). CHEMICAL (NON-HORMONAL) METHODS The lack of commercial product development for hormonal male contraceptives has made attractive the alternative option of innovative non-hormonal mechanisms to inhibit sperm production and/or function. These approaches have focused on developing feasible, druggable targets lacking off-target adverse effects for novel product development using either opportunistic or planned approaches to identify novel leads. Opportunistic approaches include the identification through fortuitous pharmacological observation of male reproductive effects of drugs or natural products. Among older drugs, an orally active spermicide concentrated in semen ( 165 ), drugs inhibiting spermatogenesis ( 166 ), ejaculation ( 167 ), or epididymal sperm function ( 168 ) have been identified. Further, among numerous plant products and natural medicines reputed to inhibit male fertility, the most widely tested was gossypol, a polyphenolic yellow pigment identified in China as causing epidemic infertility among workers ingesting raw cottonseed oil. In over 10,000 men purified gossypol reduced sperm output to <4 million/ml in >98% within
