Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


yellow pigment identified in China as causing epidemic infertility among workers ingesting raw cottonseed oil. In over 10,000 men purified gossypol reduced sperm output to <4 million/ml in >98% within 75 days with suppression maintained by a lower weekly maintenance dose ( 169 ). Although an effective male contraceptive, the systemic toxicity of gossypol, due to mitochondrial apoptosis ( 170 ), and irreversibility of sperm suppression precluded further clinical development ( 171 ) although it has potential anti-cancer applications ( 170 ). Subsequently, extracts of Tripterygium wilfordii , a traditional Chinese herbal medicine for rheumatoid arthritis and skin disorders, decrease sperm output and function and inhibit fertility in rodents and men. Studies aiming to characterize triptolide, an active alkaloid as a potential lead for an orally effective sperm function inhibitor, reveal prominent induction of germ cell apoptosis ( 172 ) at testicular ( 173 ) in addition to a post-testicular site of action ( 174 ). Additional opportunistic approaches include recognizing that the rapidly proliferating germinal epithelium is highly susceptible to cytotoxins such as drugs, heat, or ionizing irradiation which damage germ cell replication, resulting in inhibition of spermatogenesis. However, complete elimination of sperm by non-specific toxicity compromises full reversibility and the accompanying mutagenic risk from direct interference with DNA replication precludes safe use for reversible male contraception. Alternatively, potential non-hormonal approaches to developing chemical male contraception focus on sperm development maturation and function ( 175 ) ensuring that targets are specific for sperm ( 176 ). Such approaches may exploit the numerous biological processes required for developing functionally mature, fertile sperm that create abundant targets for reversible inhibition of male fertility ( 177 ) . Prominent targets include either reducing sperm output via non-hormonal mechanisms regulating spermatogenesis or post-testicular inhibition of sperm functions. One approach to reduce sperm output is by exploiting the essential requirement for retinoic acid in spermatogenesis ( 178 ). Experimental genetic or pharmacological inhibition of vitamin A action inhibits the generation of mature sperm and male fertility ( 179 - 181 ); however, the ubiquitous roles of vitamin A in cellular replication and differentiation requires thorough safety evaluation for off-target effects in clinical trials. Early studies using a drug WIN18446 were effective at inhibiting spermatogenesis but caused severe disulfuram reactions and a more specific pan-retinoic acid antagonist, targeting α, β and γ receptors, BMS-189453 was also effective at inhibiting spermatogenesis but had unacceptable dose-related hepatic
