Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


but caused severe disulfuram reactions and a more specific pan-retinoic acid antagonist, targeting α, β and γ receptors, BMS-189453 was also effective at inhibiting spermatogenesis but had unacceptable dose-related hepatic toxicity. More specific focus on the retinoic acid α receptor by developing alpha-specific inhibitors continue in pre-clinical development ( 182 ) with one antagonist YCT-529 showing promise in mice with reversible inhibition of spermatogenesis as well as in a non-human primate in which it suppressed sperm output to apparently sub-fertile, but not zero, output ( 183 ) and a clinical study is underway ( 184 ). Another series of orally active indazole carboxylic acid analogs, adjudin, gamendazole and indenopyridine derivatives ( 185 - 189 ), have been developed from the compound lonidamine but aiming to eliminating its non-specific muscle and liver toxicity while retaining its mechanism of action in causing reversible male infertility. The indazole carboxylic acid analogs cause reversible subfertility by disrupting highly specialized intercellular junctions between elongating spermatids and Sertoli cells leading to precocious detachment of immature, elongating spermatids that are then shed prematurely from the germinal epithelium. Clinical evaluation of such drugs remains at an early pre-clinical stage. Other discoveries of molecules with specific expression in sperm and contributions to sperm development and/or fertilizing ability may provide clues to novel leads for chemical non-hormonal male contraceptive drug development. These include protein phosphatase complex ( 190 ), cyclin dependent kinase 2 ( 191 ), testis-specific bromodomain ( 192 ), homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 4 ( 193 ) and histone demethylase KDM5B ( 194 ). The seclusion of functionally immature post-meiotic, haploid sperm during their transit through seminiferous tubules and epididymis offers targets for chemical methods to regulate male fertility as sperm are stored and mature functionally. Post-testicular targets offer the advantages of fast onset and offset of action compared with hormonal methods; however, specific target identification, selective drug targeting to the epididymis or testis and human dose optimization remain challenging problems. A model, rapid-onset oral spermicide was first provided by the chlorosugars that showed rapid, irreversible effect on rodent epididymal sperm ( 195 ) but proved too toxic for clinical development. A recent promising drug lead was the recognition that an alkylated iminosugar drugs that inhibit glucosyltransferase, used therapeutically to reduce lysosomal glycosphingolipid accumulation in storage disorder type 1 (Gaucher’s disease), miglustat, was a potent and reversible oral inhibitor of male mouse fertility but free from apparent systemic toxicity
