Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


to reduce lysosomal glycosphingolipid accumulation in storage disorder type 1 (Gaucher’s disease), miglustat, was a potent and reversible oral inhibitor of male mouse fertility but free from apparent systemic toxicity ( 168 , 196 ). Miglustat treatment produced structural malformation of sperm acrosome, head and mid-piece with consequential impaired motility although sperm retain the ability to fertilize oocytes in-vitro and produce normal offspring. However, miglustat effects were species- and mouse strain-dependent and were not effective in rabbits ( 197 ) or men ( 198 ). Numerous proteins identified as specifically or uniquely expressed in the epididymis provide additional opportunities for development of novel non-hormonal male contraceptive targets ( 199 - 203 ). Signaling enzymes involved in the epididymal acquisition of sperm motility and capacity for hyperactivation and fertilization such as sperm-specific protein phosphatase PPI γ 2, glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3), and calcium regulated phosphatase calcineurin (PP2B) and protein kinase A (PKA) have key role in sperm maturation, activation and fertilization that might provide clues to novel chemical, non-hormonal male contraceptive drugs ( 204 ). Post-testicular inhibition of purinergic and adrenergic receptors in the vas deferens to inhibit sperm movement through the ejaculatory ducts are feasible ( 205 , 206 ), and a series of these receptor antagonists have been developed ( 207 ). However, interference with ejaculation is unlikely to be an acceptable form of male contraception. An opportunistic approach based on a FDA-approved excipient, N,N dimethylacetamide that produced a reversible reduction in fertility of rats without hormonal effects has been reported ( 208 ). The most rapidly growing area of opportunity arises from serendipitous discoveries of genes found to be necessary for normal fertility, often from gene knock-out mouse models displaying unexpected male sterility or subfertility ( 177 ). This rapidly expanding list includes distinctive steps in spermatogenesis involving either biological processes unique to spermatogenesis, notably meiosis (two-stage reductive division of diploid germinal cells into haploid gametes) and spermiogenesis (metamorphosis of haploid round spermatids into spermatozoa) or inhibiting functions essential to sperm fertilizing ability such as flagellar motility and sperm motion (including hyperactivation ( 209 )), excurrent ductular transport, acrosome reaction ( 210 ), chemoattraction to and fertilization of oocytes ( 205 , 211 ), acrosomal function ( 212 ) and testis-specific serine/threonine kinases involved in development of normal sperm morphology and function ( 213 , 214 ). The most frequent mechanisms involves inhibition of ion channels in
