Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


212 ) and testis-specific serine/threonine kinases involved in development of normal sperm morphology and function ( 213 , 214 ). The most frequent mechanisms involves inhibition of ion channels in sperm ( 211 , 215 - 222 ) or vas deferens smooth muscle ( 205 , 206 ) leading to inhibition of sperm motility, hyperactivation and/or transport required for fertilization. One leading candidate is CatSper, the principal calcium channel activated by progesterone ( 223 - 227 ) and essential for the sperm hyperactivation required for fertilization ( 228 ). A mouse model of an acute inhibition of soluble adenylate cyclase as a model for an on-demand, short-term male contraceptive has been proposed ( 229 ) but toxicological and efficacy evaluation in primates is needed. Another potential model of reversible non-hormonal male contraception is inhibition of serine/threonine kinase 33 which similarly requires more in-depth clinical and toxicological evaluation ( 230 ). Experimental vaccines against CatSper epitopes inhibit murine fertility ( 231 , 232 ). A comprehensive review of non-hormonal methods targeting sperm motility is available ( 233 ). In addition, drug screening programs using extensive high-throughput chemical libraries can be employed to identify suitable lead compounds using selective sperm function targets for further development including target optimization ( 234 ). For example, the inhibitor analogs of CatSper using patch clamping to identify channel blockade have identified probes suitable for drug discovery development ( 235 ). Similarly, screening of a chemical library identified phosducin-like 2, a testis specific phosphoprotein, which when knocked-out in mice, induced sterility due to globozoospermia with impaired sperm head formation ( 236 ) as well as screening of natural plant ( 237 - 239 ) and microbial ( 240 ) products continue as a source for lead compounds continues. Other products of drug screening that may interfere with DNA replication by targeting meiosis, incur additional theoretical safety risks of mutagenesis if intended for male contraception ( 241 ). HORMONAL METHODS Hormonal methods are the closest to meeting the requirement for a reliable, reversible, safe, and acceptable male contraceptive. Although reliability is judged by the efficacy in preventing pregnancy in fertile female partners, as a hormonal male contraceptive aims to prevent pregnancy by reversible inhibition of sperm output, the suppression of spermatogenesis constitutes a useful surrogate marker for development and evaluation of prototype male contraceptive regimens. This makes defining the degree of suppression of sperm output required a key
