Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


suppression of spermatogenesis constitutes a useful surrogate marker for development and evaluation of prototype male contraceptive regimens. This makes defining the degree of suppression of sperm output required a key strategic issue in developing a hormonal male contraceptive ( 242 ). Two landmark WHO studies, the first ever male contraceptive efficacy studies, involving 671 men from 16 centers in 10 countries established the proof of principle that hormonally-induced azoospermia provides highly reliable, reversible contraception ( 15 , 16 ). Among the minority (~25%) of men who remained severe oligozoospermic (0.1-3 million sperm/ml) using weekly testosterone enanthate injections, contraceptive failure rate (~8% per annum) was directly proportional to their sperm output. Hence to achieve highly effective contraception, azoospermia is analogous to anovulation as a sufficient, but not necessary, requirement. Nevertheless, reliable contraception by modern standards ( 36 ) requires uniform azoospermia as the desirable target for male contraceptive regimens ( 243 ). No regimen yet achieves this consistently in all men, although in some Asian countries (e.g. China ( 16 ), Indonesia ( 244 , 245 )) an approximation to uniform azoospermia can be achieved by a variety of regimens. A study involving 308 Chinese men in 6 centers has shown that monthly injections of testosterone undecanoate provides highly effective and reversible contraception ( 18 ). No pregnancies were recorded among men who were azoospermic or severely oligozoospermic (≤3 million sperm per mL) providing a 95% upper confidence limit of pregnancy (contraceptive failure) rate of 2.5% per annum. The overall failure rate based on suppression of spermatogenesis was <4%. The prototype regimen was well tolerated apart from injection site discomfort due to large oil injection volume (4 mL) and reversible androgenic effects (acne, weight gain, hemoglobin, lipids). Nevertheless, despite these promising findings, non-Chinese men require combination hormonal regimens involving a 2 nd gonadotropin suppressing agent, notably progestins, together with testosterone to ensure uniformly adequate spermatogenic suppression. Proof-of-principle for this combination approach was provided by a depot androgen/progestin regimen that observed no pregnancies among 55 couples during 35.5 person-years of exposure (95% upper limit of failure rate ~8%) in a study with satisfactory tolerability and reversibility for a prototype regimen ( 19 ). Hence, contraceptive efficacy studies show that highly effective contraception can be achieved with suppression of sperm output to near azoospermia (≤1 million per mL) ( 243 ). Ultimately, the efficacy of male contraception must be established by enumerating pregnancies
