Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


male partners in stable relationships to use a hormonal male contraceptive ( 256 ). However, potential female users seek more specific information on the reliability of a clinical product to be used ( 249 ). Furthermore, the acceptability of a male method is a necessary but may not be a sufficient condition for male taking contraceptive responsibility ( 257 ). Corroborating the acceptability of hormonal male contraception are findings from experimental studies of prototype regimens for up to 12 months usage in which most participants confirm high levels of satisfaction and willingness to try a commercial product ( 254 , 255 , 258 , 259 ). A large, international multi-center study of a daily nesterone-testosterone combination transdermal gel for contraceptive efficacy is underway evaluating whether a daily, self-administered non-injectable product has equivalent contraceptive efficacy to injectable products ( 260 ). Modern safety evaluation for hormonal contraceptive methods requires long-term, large scale studies of marketed products ( 261 ). Consequently, in the absence of any marketed male contraceptive, no long-term safety profile can be discerned. Nevertheless, 4 decades of clinical trials have consistently identified mainly minor adverse effects in short- or medium-term studies of prototype male hormonal contraception regimens ( 1 , 9 , 242 ). This was verified in an unique, placebo-controlled study of a combined androgen-progestin regimen which again proved highly effective at reversible suppression of sperm output although the inclusion of a placebo arm rendered it ethically impossible to evaluate contraceptive efficacy but provided insight into drug-related side effects ( 12 ). The study confirmed the benign medium-term safety profile for this prototype regimen in observing few serious adverse effects, none attributable to the steroid regimen, and, among the non-serious adverse effects reported, expected androgenic effects (acne, weight gain, sweating, changes in mood, or libido) were more frequent than placebo but mild and rarely led to discontinuation ( 12 ). Nevertheless, the long-term safety evaluation of novel contraceptives requires large scale observational studies of extensively used drugs to define low frequency risks but can only occur after the marketing of suitable products. Hence, prototype hormonal methods have proven reliability and reversibility and reasonable prospects for being well accepted and safe. Although they are the most likely opportunity in the foreseeable future to develop a practical contraceptive method for men, progress depends on pharmaceutical industry development. However, leadership in male contraceptive development has come almost exclusively from university-based investigators
