Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


of circulating gonadotropins and/or depletion of intratesticular androgens. Limited invasive studies measuring intratesticular testosterone (and DHT) suggest that the degree of depletion may not predict reliably complete suppression of sperm output ( 294 - 296 ) but other more widely applicable, non-invasive markers of endogenous Leydig cell function such as circulating epitestosterone ( 279 ) or 17-hydroxyprogesterone ( 297 ) or non-steroidal testicular products such as INSL3 ( 298 ) may be more analytically informative as to the relative roles of gonadotropin suppression and intratesticular androgen depletion. Exogenous testosterone causes suppression of sperm output with an average of 13 weeks to reach severe oligozoospermia (<1 million per mL) or azoospermia with suppression being maintained consistently during ongoing treatment ( 299 ) ( Figure 2 ). Following cessation of treatment, sperm reappear within 3 months to reach sperm densities of 10 and 20 million per mL at an average of 11.5 and 13.6 weeks, respectively ( 299 ) with ultimately full recovery ( 11 ) ( Figure 3 ). Apart from intolerance of weekly injections, there were few discontinuations due to acne, weight gain, polycythemia, or behavioral effects and these were reversible as were changes in hemoglobin, testis size, and plasma urea. There was no evidence of liver, prostate, or cardiovascular disorders ( 15 , 16 , 300 ). Figure 1. Pooled summary of contraceptive efficacy from two WHO male contraceptive efficacy studies ( 15 , 16 ) where contraceptive failure rate (pregnancy rate) is plotted against the current sperm concentration in the ejaculate. This illustrates a summation of all data pooled from both studies. Data comprise monthly observations of the mean sperm concentration (averaging monthly sperm counts) and whether a pregnancy occurred in that month or not. Pregnancy rate (per 100 person-years, Pearl index) on the y-axis is plotted against the cumulative sperm density (in million sperm per ml) indicating that contraceptive failure rates are proportional to sperm output. The inset is the same data re-plotted in discrete sperm concentration bands rather than cumulatively. For comparison, the average contraceptive failure rates in the first year of use ( 40 , 427 ) of modern reliable contraceptive methods are indicated by diamond symbols. Figure 2. Plot of suppression (left panel) and recovery (right panel) of sperm output from the WHO Studies 85921 ( 16 ) and 89903 ( 15 ) involved pooling ~14,000 semen samples from 16 centers in 10 countries
