Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


recovery (right panel) of sperm output from the WHO Studies 85921 ( 16 ) and 89903 ( 15 ) involved pooling ~14,000 semen samples from 16 centers in 10 countries ( 299 ). Data-points represent mean and SE (error bar) of semen samples grouped within weeks with between six and 383 samples per time-point. Note cube-root scale on y -axis. For suppression, the smooth line is the two-parameter, single term exponential decay function plotted to fit the data by non-linear regression. For recovery, the smooth line is the three-parameter sigmoidal curve plotted to fit the data by non-linear regression. Figure 3. Recovery of spermatogenesis after cessation of treatment with hormonal male contraceptive regimens modified after an integrated re-analysis of over 90% of all reported studies ( 248 ). Data is plotted as a Kaplan-Meier survival plot of the increasing proportion of men recovering to various thresholds over time since last treatment. The data of last treatment is defined as the time elapsed from the end of the last treatment cycle, that is the latest date of the first missed treatment dose. The thresholds are a sperm concentration of 3, 10 or 20 million sperm per mL in the ejaculate or a return to their own pre-treatment baseline sperm concentration. The median time to achieve each threshold is tabulated together with its 95% confidence interval. The pharmacokinetics of testosterone products are crucial for suppressing sperm output. Oral androgens have major first-pass hepatic effects producing prominent route-dependent effects on hepatic protein secretion (e.g., SHBG, HDL cholesterol) and inconsistent bioavailability. Short-acting testosterone products requiring daily or more frequent administration (oral, transdermal patches or gels) which may be acceptable for androgen replacement therapy present serious feasibility challenges in compliance for effective long-term hormonal contraception. Weekly TE injections required for maximal suppression of spermatogenesis ( 273 ) are far from ideal ( 301 ) and cause supraphysiological blood testosterone levels risking both excessive androgenic side effects and preventing maximal depletion of intratesticular testosterone for optimal efficacy ( 302 , 303 ). Other currently available oil-based testosterone esters (cypionate, cyclohexane-carboxylate, propionate) do not differ from the enanthate ester ( 304 ), but longer-acting depot preparations such as injectable testosterone undecanoate are a substantial improvement. Subdermal testosterone pellets sustain physiological testosterone levels for 4-6 months ( 305 ) and the newer injectable preparations testosterone undecanoate ( 18 ), testosterone-loaded biodegradable microspheres ( 306 ) and testosterone buciclate
