Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


sexual behavior. These are usually minor in severity, reversible upon cessation of treatment and of minimal clinical significance ( 12 ). The safety of androgen administration concerns mainly potential effects on cardiovascular and prostatic disease As the explanation for the higher male susceptibility to cardiovascular disease is not well understood, the risks of exogenous androgens are not clear ( 330 , 331 ). In clinical trials, lipid changes are minimal with depot (non-oral) hormonal regimens ( 19 , 308 , 332 , 333 ). Changes in blood cholesterol fractions observed during high hepatic exposure to testosterone and/or progestins, due to either oral first pass effects or high parenteral doses, have unknown clinical significance but, in any case, maintenance of physiological blood testosterone concentrations is the prudent and preferred objective. The real cardiovascular risks or benefits of hormonal male contraception will require long-term surveillance of cardiovascular outcomes ( 334 ). The long-term effects of exogenous androgens on the prostate also require monitoring since prostatic diseases are both age and androgen dependent. Exposure to adult testosterone levels is required for prostate development and disease ( 335 - 337 ). The precise relationship of androgens to prostatic disease and in particular any influence of exogenous androgens remains poorly understood. Ambient blood testosterone or DHT levels do not predict development of prostatic cancer over future decades in prospective studies of adults ( 338 ). A genetic polymorphism, the CAG (polyglutamine) triplet repeat in exon 1 of the androgen receptor, is an important determinant of prostate sensitivity to circulating testosterone with short repeat lengths leading to increased androgen sensitivity ( 339 ), however the relationship of the CAG triplet repeat length polymorphism to late-life prostate diseases remains unclear ( 340 ). Among androgen deficient men, prostate size and PSA concentrations are reduced and returned towards normal by testosterone replacement without exceeding age-matched eugonadal controls ( 339 , 341 - 343 ). In healthy middle-aged men without known prostate disease, very high doses of the potent natural androgen DHT for 2 years did not increase prostate size or age-related growth rate compared with placebo indicating that effects of even high dose exogenous androgen treatment has much less effect than age on the human prostate ( 325 ). Similarly, self-administration of massive androgen over-dosage does not increase total prostate volume or PSA in anabolic steroid abusers although central prostate zone volumes increases ( 344 ). In-situ prostate
