Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


). Similarly, self-administration of massive androgen over-dosage does not increase total prostate volume or PSA in anabolic steroid abusers although central prostate zone volumes increases ( 344 ). In-situ prostate cancer is common in all populations of older men whereas rates of invasive prostate cancer differ many-fold between populations despite similar blood testosterone concentrations. This suggests that early and prolonged exposure to androgens may initiate in-situ prostate cancer, but later androgen-independent environmental factors promote the outbreak of invasive prostate cancer. Therefore, it is prudent to maintain physiological androgen levels with exogenous testosterone, which then might be no more hazardous than exposure to endogenous testosterone. Prolonged surveillance comparable with that for cardiovascular and breast disease in users of female hormonal contraception would be equally essential to monitor both cardiovascular and prostatic disease risk in men receiving exogenous androgens for hormonal contraception. Extensive experience with testosterone in doses equivalent to replacement therapy in normal men indicates minimal effects on mood or behavior ( 15 , 16 , 273 , 345 - 347 ). A careful placebo-controlled, cross-over study showed that a 1000 mg TU injection in healthy young men produces minor mood changes without any detectable increase in self or partner-reported aggressive, non-aggressive, or sexual behaviors ( 348 ). By contrast, extreme androgen doses used experimentally in healthy men can produce idiosyncratic hypomanic reactions in a minority ( 349 ). Aberrant behavior in observational studies of androgen-abusing athletes or prisoners are difficult to interpret particularly to distinguished genuine androgen effects from the influence of self-selection for underlying psychological morbidity ( 350 ). ANTI-ANDROGENS Anti-androgens have been used to selectively inhibit epididymal and testicular effects of testosterone without impeding systemic androgenic effects ( 351 ). Cyproterone acetate, a steroidal antiandrogen with progestational activity, suppresses gonadotropin secretion without achieving azoospermia but leads to androgen deficiency when used alone ( 352 ). In contrast, pure non-steroidal anti-androgens lacking androgenic or gestagenic effects such as flutamide, nilutamide, and casodex fail to suppress spermatogenesis when used alone ( 353 , 354 ). Two studies evaluating the hypothesis that incomplete suppression of spermatogenesis is due to persistence of testicular DHT have reported no additional suppression from administration of finasteride, a type II 5α reductase inhibitor ( 355 , 356 ); however as testes express predominantly the type I isoforms ( 357 ), further studies are required to conclusively test this hypothesis using an inhibitor of type I 5-α
