Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


356 ); however as testes express predominantly the type I isoforms ( 357 ), further studies are required to conclusively test this hypothesis using an inhibitor of type I 5-α reductase ( 358 ). ANDROGEN COMBINATION REGIMENS Combination steroid regimens use non-androgenic steroids (estrogens, progestins) to suppress gonadotropins, in conjunction with testosterone for androgen replacement, have shown the most promising efficacy with enhanced rate and extent of spermatogenic suppression compared with androgen alone regimens ( 332 , 359 , 360 ). Synergistic combinations reduce the effective dose of each steroid and minimizing testosterone dosage could enhance spermatogenic suppression if high blood testosterone levels counteract the necessary maximal depletion of intratesticular testosterone ( 361 , 362 ) as well as reducing androgenic side-effects ( Figure 4 ). Figure 4. Plot of time course of sperm output (sperm density in millions of sperm per mL, cube-root scale) before and after implantation of two 200-mg testosterone pellets (400 mg total; closed circles), four 200-mg testosterone pellets (800 mg total; closed squares), four testosterone pellets plus depot progestin (800 mg total testosterone plus 300 mg DMPA; closed diamonds) and six 200 mg testosterone pellets mg (1200 mg total; open hexagons) in healthy fertile men ( 279 ). Results as the mean and SEM. Progesterone is a key precursor and steroidogenic intermediate for all bioactive natural steroids and the progesterone receptors A and B are structurally and evolutionarily the closest members of the nuclear receptor superfamily to the androgen receptor. Yet, although progesterone has crucial gestational and lactational roles in female reproductive physiology, it has no well-established role in male reproductive physiology apart from a possible role in sperm function ( 211 , 363 ), possibly via non-genomic rather than a classically genomic mechanism ( 364 ). Nevertheless functional nuclear progesterone receptors are expressed in male brain, smooth muscle, and reproductive, but not most non-reproductive, tissues ( 365 ). Synthetic progestins, steroidal structural agonistic analogs of progesterone, are potent inhibitors of pituitary gonadotropin secretion used widely for female contraception and hormonal treatment of disorders such as endometriosis, uterine myoma, and mastalgia. Used alone, progestins suppress spermatogenesis but cause androgen deficiency including impotence ( 366 , 367 ) so androgen replacement is necessary. Non-human primate studies indicate that this is mediated via a central hypothalamic-pituitary site of action rather than direct effects on the testis ( 368 ). Extensive feasibility studies concluded that progestin-androgen combination regimens
