Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


acetate and nesterone) displayed significant short-term gonadotrophin suppression when combined with testosterone ( 388 ). The pharmacokinetics of the testosterone preparation is critical to efficacy of spermatogenic suppression with long-acting depots being most effective while transdermal delivery is less effective than injectable testosterone ( 378 ). Progestin side-effects are few if sexual function and well-being are maintained by adequate doses of testosterone replacement. The metabolic effects depend on specific regimen with oral administration and higher testosterone doses exhibiting more prominent hepatic effects such as lowering SHBG and HDL cholesterol. After treatment ceases with depletion or withdrawal of hormonal depots, spermatogenesis recovers completely but gradually consistent with the time-course of the spermatogenic cycle ( 248 , 299 ). Steroids with dual androgen and progestin properties may be potentially well suited to male contraception if the balance between these two bioactivities is properly balanced ( 389 ). A study comparing a gel combining nesterone (8.3 mg) with testosterone (62.5 mg) with the same dose of testosterone alone for daily transdermal application for 28 days demonstrated suppression of sperm output and serum gonadotropin to levels consistent with contraceptive efficacy and superior to testosterone alone indicating the suitability of the combination gel for further product development ( 390 ). The development of novel synthetic steroids possessing both androgenic and progestin activity is an immediately logical further step in development of a practical hormonal male contraceptive regimen. Two orally active nandrolone derivatives, dimethandrolone ( 391 - 393 ) and 11-methyl nandrolone dodecylcarbonate ( 394 ), were originally evaluated as injectable esters. In pre-clinical rodent ( 389 , 395 , 396 ) and non-human primate ( 397 ) studies they showed favorable hormonal, metabolic and safety features thereby showing promise as single agent for hormonal male contraception. Early stage clinical evaluations of these synthetic nandrolone-derivatives as oral drugs demonstrated comparable favorable features in short-term pharmacological and, hormonal and metabolic studies however sustained spermatogenic suppression was not yet demonstrated ( 391 , 393 , 398 ). Whether such daily use oral or transdermal gel ( 254 , 399 )-based male contraceptives will have sufficient user compliance to attain high contraceptive efficacy remains to be evaluated. More recently, C7 α substituted methyl and ethyl derivatives of testosterone itself have shown promise as single steroids with both potent androgenic and progestin activity in in vitro and rabbit experimental models .( 400 ) Estradiol augments testosterone-induced suppression of primate spermatogenesis
