Male Contraception
KEYWORDS: pubmed, male, contraception, contraceptive, sperm, testosterone, men, vasectomy, free, pmc free, free article, article, pmc, article pubmed, hormonal


have shown promise as single steroids with both potent androgenic and progestin activity in in vitro and rabbit experimental models .( 400 ) Estradiol augments testosterone-induced suppression of primate spermatogenesis ( 401 ) and fertility ( 402 ) but estrogenic side-effects (gynecomastia) and modest efficacy at tolerable doses make estradiol-based combinations impractical for male contraception ( 403 ). The efficacy and tolerability of newer estrogen analogs in combination with testosterone remain to be evaluated. GnRH BLOCKADE The pivotal role of GnRH in the hormonal control of testicular function makes it an attractive target for biochemical regulation of male fertility. Blockade of GnRH action by GnRH receptor blockade with synthetic analogs or GnRH immunoneutralization would eliminate LH and testosterone secretion requiring testosterone replacement. Many superactive GnRH agonists are used to induce reversible medical castration for androgen-dependent prostate cancer by causing a sustained, paradoxical inhibition of gonadotropin and testosterone secretion and spermatogenesis due to pituitary GnRH receptor downregulation. When combined with testosterone, GnRH agonists suppress spermatogenesis but rarely achieve azoospermia ( 361 , 362 , 404 ) being less effective than androgen/progestin regimens. By contrast, pure GnRH antagonists create and sustain immediate competitive blockade of GnRH receptors ( 405 , 406 ) and, in combination with testosterone, are highly effective at suppressing spermatogenesis. Early hydrophobic GnRH antagonists were difficult to formulate and irritating, causing injection site mast cell histamine release. Newer more potent but less irritating GnRH antagonists produce rapid, reversible and complete inhibition of spermatogenesis in monkeys ( 407 - 409 ) and men ( 410 , 411 ) when combined with testosterone. The striking superiority of GnRH antagonists over agonists may be due to more effective and immediate inhibition of gonadotropin secretion and thereby more effective depletion of intratesticular testosterone. Due to their highly specific site of action, GnRH analogs have few unexpected side-effects. Depot GnRH antagonist plus testosterone formulations suitable for administration at up to 3 month intervals could be promising as a hormonal male contraceptive regimen. Whether GnRH antagonists are more cost-effective than progestins as the second, non-androgenic component of combination male hormonal contraceptive regimens remains to be established ( 295 , 320 , 384 , 412 ). The drawback of higher cost might be overcome by hybrid regimens using GnRH antagonists to initiate suppression followed by a switch to more economical steroids for maintenance of spermatogenic suppression in humans ( 321 ). A GnRH vaccine could intercept
