NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: disease, alzheimer, alzheimer disease, pubmed, pubmed pmid, pmid, patients, donepezil, alt, liver, safety, elevations, placebo, adverse, trial


very high rate of serum enzyme elevations, which can be dramatic although usually not associated with symptoms, jaundice or clinically apparent liver injury. Nevertheless, because of this side effect and the availability of other better tolerated cholinesterase inhibitors, tacrine is now no longer used. Except for tacrine, the drugs used for Alzheimer disease are rare causes of acute liver injury and have a low rate of associated serum enzyme elevations. The references on hepatotoxicity of the drugs used are listed together immediately after this introductory section. The agents referenced and discussed here include: • Aducanumab • Donanemab • Donepezil 2 LiverTox • Galantamine • Lecanemab • Memantine • Rivastigmine • Tacrine Increasing efforts in Alzheimer disease research have sought to identify means of preventing or slowing the progression of disease. Most attention has been focused on preventing or decreasing brain accumulation of amyloid-β oligomers and soluble aggregates that are believed to be the cause of neuronal damage in Alzheimer molecule inhibitors of β-secretase, the rate-limiting enzyme of amyloid-β production (verubecestat, atabecestat, lanabecestat, elenbecestat) have failed to show benefit in early or late Alzheimer disease. Indeed, some of these agents were associated with worsening of symptoms and signs of Alzheimer disease, others were withdrawn for further evaluation because of suspected hepatotoxicity (atabecestat). These agents are not in current use and are not discussed individually in LiverTox. Selected references on these agents are given in the Annotated Bibliography below. ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY References updated: 03 February 2020 Zimmerman HJ. Miscellaneous drugs and diagnostic chemicals. In, Zimmerman HJ. Hepatotoxicity: the adverse effects of drugs and other chemicals on the liver. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1999, pp. 709-42. (Expert review of hepatotoxicity published in 1999; tacrine, the first cholinesterase inhibitor approved for use in Alzheimer disease, was associated with a very high rate of serum ALT elevations [~50%], but rarely caused clinically apparent liver injury; the other Alzheimer disease agents are not discussed). Larrey D, Ripault MP. Hepatotoxicity of psychotropic drugs and drugs of abuse. In, Kaplowitz N, DeLeve LD, eds. Drug-induced liver disease. 3rd ed. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2013, pp. 518. (Review of hepatotoxicity of psychotropic agents; drugs for Alzheimer disease are not specifically discussed). Roberson ED. Alzheimer's disease. Treatment of central nervous system degenerative disorders. In, Brunton LL, Hilal-Dandan R, Knollman BC, eds. Goodman & Gilman's the pharmacological basis of therapeutics. 13th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2018, pp. 333-5. (Textbook of pharmacology and therapeutics).
