Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, copper, wilson disease, patient, liver, diagnosis, normal, symptoms, ring, case, kannauje, present, genetic, daughters


the investigation of Wilson’s disease. Case Presentation A 50-year-old female patient was brought to the emergency department of our hospital by her two young daughters. Patient was crying furiously, shouting gibberish atop her voice. The daughters revealed that this was a common occurrence and noted that the patient had abnormal posturing, which was corroborated by generalized rigidity as confirmed by examination. On neuroimaging, head computed tomography revealed multiple infarcts, indicating cerebrovascular attack. On further enquiry, the daughters reported observing a few cases of rigidity in their hometown with similar behaviors. With this vital information, diseases with environmental exposure and geographical location were considered, and Wilson’s disease was considered a differential diagnosis. To rule out Wilson’s disease, we have done routine investigations and recommended serum ceruloplasmin, 24h urinary copper test, and liver biopsy for confirmation. However, owing to financial constraints, the daughters reluctantly refused the aforementioned tests. We decided to look for the Kayser-Fleischer (KF) ring in the patient, but she was uncooperative, making it almost impossible to test her. Her Hemoglobin was 10.8 g/L, platelets 178 x109/L, WBC count of 6.06x109/L. Her liver function test showed normal bilirubin level with serum glutamic- oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT)-24 IU/L, serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT)-32 IU/L, alkaline phosphate- 110 U/L, total protein 6.2 gm/dL, and albumin 4.1 g/dL. Her prothrombin time (PT) was 12.2 seconds, international normalized ratio (INR 1.1), and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) of 29.5 seconds. Her ultrasound abdomen showed normal liver size (10.8 cm) and normal portal vein diameter (8 mm) without any evidence of cirrhosis (Figure 1). How to cite this article Kannauje P K, Pandit V R, Wasnik P N, et al. (October 11, 2021) Wilson’s Disease: Diagnosis in Novel Way. Cureus 13(10): e18650. DOI FIGURE 1: Ultrasound abdomen showing normal liver size and echotexture. Considering environmental exposure and genetic predisposition, we planned to look for KF ring in the daughters. Any form of genetic pigmentation was ruled out, and the elder daughter subsequently tested positive for the KF ring (Figure 2). 2021 Kannauje et al. Cureus 13(10): e18650. DOI 2 of 5 FIGURE 2: KF ring (in daughter). KF: Kayser-Fleischer. Using that as leading evidence, we shared the cost of 24h urinary copper test for the patient and her elder daughter, and the level of copper in both individuals was markedly high, confirming our suspicion. The Leipzig score was calculated for the patient and it was >4
