Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, copper, wilson disease, patient, liver, diagnosis, normal, symptoms, ring, case, kannauje, present, genetic, daughters


and her elder daughter, and the level of copper in both individuals was markedly high, confirming our suspicion. The Leipzig score was calculated for the patient and it was >4 confirming the diagnosis of Wilson. The patient was started on D-penicillamine (500 mg), aspirin (75 mg), and zinc (100 mg). The patient drastically improved, and after staying for three weeks she was discharged. The patient and elder daughter are on regular follow-up and doing well. Discussion Wilson’s disease is caused by mutations in the ATP7B gene, which regulates the protein transporters that excrete excess copper via bile . The lack of adequate excretion and accumulation of excess copper in the As the disease affects the liver and basal ganglia, symptoms usually are primarily related to the liver and brain. Liver-related signs and symptoms include Jaundice, itching, abdominal pain, generalized weakness, vomiting, and ascites. Neurological signs and symptoms include tremors, chorea, personality changes, depression, anxiety, headaches, insomnia, seizures, hallucinations, ataxia, and mask-like facies. On examination, the stigmata of chronic liver disease are often observed, if the disease has progressed. Slit- lamp examination will reveal KF rings on the cornea. Moreover, skeletal involvement, similar to premature osteoarthritis and arthropathy, is common. Hemolytic anemia, Fanconi syndrome-like symptoms and urolithiasis are also observed in some patients. diagnostic test. Values of less than 20 mg/dL (normal 20-40 mg/dL) favor Wilson’s disease but can be normal in few cases. However, it is prudent to consider that low ceruloplasmin levels may be observed in nay protein-deficiency order. Urinary copper levels higher than 100 µg/dL indicate excess copper in the circulation. These two diagnostic tests along with KF ring are adequate to diagnose Wilson’s disease. However, the gold standard for diagnosis remains liver biopsy to determine liver copper levels. A positive result is a copper level of greater than 250 µg/g dry liver tissues . Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is required for cases with brain involvement. MRI T2-weighted sequence 2021 Kannauje et al. Cureus 13(10): e18650. DOI 3 of 5 may show hyperintensities in the basal ganglia and demonstrate the characteristic “face of the giant panda” pattern. Screening of first and second-degree relatives is advised. Differential diagnoses include conditions causing chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis and hemolytic anemias due to various causes. Neuropsychiatric disorders that can be mistaken include various types of parkinsonian syndromes, pantothenate kinase deficiency associated with neurodegeneration (iron accumulation), neuroacanthocytosis syndromes, and Huntington’s disease
