Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, copper, wilson disease, patient, liver, diagnosis, normal, symptoms, ring, case, kannauje, present, genetic, daughters


anemias due to various causes. Neuropsychiatric disorders that can be mistaken include various types of parkinsonian syndromes, pantothenate kinase deficiency associated with neurodegeneration (iron accumulation), neuroacanthocytosis syndromes, and Huntington’s disease among others. These conditions may present with personality changes, rigidity, dystonia, and movement disorders and cause confusion during diagnosis. Due to difficulties in diagnosing Wilson’s disease, the Leipzig (Ferenci) score was devised by a group of experts to help diagnose patients (Table 1). Typical clinical signs & symptoms Other tests KF ring Liver copper (in the absence of cholestasis) Present 2 >5x ULN (>4µmol/g) 2 Absent 0 0.8-4 µmol/g 1 Neurologic symptoms Normal <0.8 µmol/g -1 Severe 2 Mild 1 Rhodanine positive granules 1 Absent 0 Serum ceruloplasmin Urinary copper (in the absence of hepatitis) Normal (>0.2g/L) 0 Normal 0 (0.1-0.2 g/L) 1 1-2x ULN 1 >2x ULN 2 (<0.1 g/L) 2 Normal, but >5x ULN after D- penicillamine 2 Coombs negative Hemolytic Anaemia Mutation analysis Present 1 On both chromosomes detected 4 On 1 chromosomes detected 1 Absent 0 No mutation detected 0 Total score Evaluation 4 or more Diagnosis established 3 Diagnosis is possible, more test needed 2 or less Diagnosis very unlikely TABLE 1: Leipzig score: adapted from scoring system developed at the 8th international meeting on Wilson's disease . It comprises many key investigations for making the diagnosis of Wilson’s disease and applies to the adult population . The Leipzig score was calculated for our patient and it was more than 4 confirming our diagnosis. The mainstay therapy for Wilson’s disease is copper chelation therapy with D-penicillamine and trientine. Trientine is preferred because of fewer side effects. Oral zinc may also be administered as it competes with copper for absorption at metallic ion transporter sites . Tetrathiomolybdate (TM) is preferred over zinc in case of neurological involvement but availability and high cost are a challenge in resource-poor settings. It is vital to educate the patient on the adverse effects of chronic chelation therapy, which can make symptoms worse. For muscle rigidity, spasticity, and parkinsonian features, muscle relaxants, including baclofen, 2021 Kannauje et al. Cureus 13(10): e18650. DOI 4 of 5 anticholinergic (trihexyphenidyl), gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonists, and levodopa, may be used. Patient education regarding dietary modifications, such as avoidance of hepatotoxic medications, alcohol, and diet rich in copper including mushrooms, chocolate, nuts, dried fruits, liver, and shellfish, should be emphasized. As copper-chelating treatments take up to six
