Open Access Case
KEYWORDS: disease, wilson, copper, wilson disease, patient, liver, diagnosis, normal, symptoms, ring, case, kannauje, present, genetic, daughters


as avoidance of hepatotoxic medications, alcohol, and diet rich in copper including mushrooms, chocolate, nuts, dried fruits, liver, and shellfish, should be emphasized. As copper-chelating treatments take up to six months to start working, physiotherapy and occupational therapy are beneficial in the neurological form of the disease. Long-term monitoring is essential with measurements of urinary copper, complete blood counts, free copper, and renal and liver function at 4- to 8-week intervals. Most patients need lifelong chelation therapy with follow-up. If untreated, the disease will eventually lead to chronic liver disease and may even progress to hepatocellular carcinoma in some cases. Genetic counseling is necessary to prevent the transmission of the defective gene. Conclusions Wilson’s disease is a Genetic disorder that can have a variety of presentations and can be controlled if detected early. The treatment modality is lifestyle modification, proper follow-up, and physiotherapy. If disease control is not achieved after initial treatment, titrating the dose of chelating agent is indicated to prevent the damage of the internal organs. Additional Information Disclosures Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. Institute Ethical Committee-AIIMS, Raipur issued approval not applicable. Te informed consent has been taken from the patient prior to the writing of the manuscript and the identity of the patient won't be disclosed at any cost. Since this is a case report IEC approval is not mandatory; the patient has already consented for his case to be published in any journal. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.
