MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


MEDICINE Clinical Practice Guideline Acute and Chronic Pancreatitis Georg Beyer*1, Albrecht Hoffmeister*1, Pia Lorenz, Petra Lynen, Markus M. Lerch*2, Julia Mayerle*2 *1 The two authors are co-first authors. Summary *2 The two authors are co-last authors. Background: Acute pancreatitis (AP) is among the commonest non-malignant admission diagnoses in gastroenterology. Its inci- The members of the dence in Germany lies between 13 and 43 per 100 000 inhabitants and is increasing. In 2017, 24 per 100 000 inhabitants were Guideline Develop- hospitalized for chronic pancreatitis. ment Group are listed in the eBox. Department of Inter- and evidence-based guidelines that were published in German or English between 1960 and 2018. nal Medicine II, LMU Germany: PD Dr. med. Georg Beyer, The diagnosis is made when at least two of the following three criteria are met: typical abdominal pain, elevation of serum Prof. Dr. med. Julia lipase, and characteristic imaging findings. If those criteria are ambiguous, transabdominal sonography is indicated. The early Mayerle initiation of food intake lowers the rate of infected pancreatic necrosis, organ failure, or death (odds ratio 0.44; 95% confidence Department of Gas- interval [0.2; 0.96]). In AP, Ringer's lactate solution should be preferred for fluid resuscitation, at 200–250 mL/hr for 24 hours. troenterology and Rheumatology, Leip- Severe pain should be treated with opiates. zig University Hospi- many: Prof. Dr. med. atitis that have taken place over the past few years. The long-term care and monitoring of patients with complication-free pan- A lbrecht Hoffmeister creatitis is the responsibility of primary care physicians and gastroenterologists. German Society of Gastroenterology, Cite this as: Digestive and Meta- (DGVS), Berlin, Ger- Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501. DOI: many: Pia Lorenz, Petra Lynen Department of Medi- Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany: Acute pancreatitis (AP) is one of the most common Society of Gastroengerology, Digestive and Meta- Prof. Dr. med. Mar- admission diagnoses among patients hospitalized bolic Diseases (DGVS, Deutschen Gesellschaft für kus M. Lerch for nonmalignant gastrointestinal conditions. In Gastroenterologie, Verdauungs- und Stoffwechsel - Munich, Germany: Germany, the incidence of acute pancreatitis ranges from krankheiten) (3). All recommendation of this guide- Prof. Dr. med. 13 to 43 cases per 100 000 population, with an upward line are listed in eTable 1. Markus M. Lerch trend. (1). In 2017, 24 patients per 100 000 population were hospitalized for chronic pancreatitis in Germany (2). Methods The S3-level clinical practice guideline on pancre- The methodological approach is described
