MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


(1). In 2017, 24 patients per 100 000 population were hospitalized for chronic pancreatitis in Germany (2). Methods The S3-level clinical practice guideline on pancre- The methodological approach is described in the guide- atitis is presented below. The full text of the guideline line report (e1). Further details are provided in eTable has been published in the Zeitschrift für Gastroentero- 2. logie and is posted on the websites of the Association of the Scientific Medical Societies in Germany Acute pancreatitis (AWMF, Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Wissenschaftlichen Definition and etiology Medizinischen Fachgesellschaften) and the German Gallstone disease and alcohol abuse are the most com- mon established risk factors for AP (level of evidence: 3, strong consensus). They each account for 30% to cme plus 50% of cases. Further common risk factors include hypertriglyceridemia (approximately 10% of cases), This article has been certified by the North Rhine Academy for Continuing Medi- endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography cal Education. Participation in the CME certification program is possible only (ERCP) (relative risk of approximately 3–5%) and over the internet: cme.aerzteblatt.de. The deadline for submission is 24 July smoking. A meta-analysis of 12 observational studies 2023. found an odds ratio (OR) of 1.71 (95% confidence interval: [1.37; 2.14]) for smokers and 1.21 [1.02; 1.43] Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 495 MEDICINE Imaging TABLE 1 The initial aim of imaging in acute pancreatitis is to Definition of severity according to the Revised Atlanta Classification (6) (RAC) establish the diagnosis if signs, symptoms and labora- with corresponding mortality rates according to (40) tory criteria are inconclusive. If this is the case, first RAC Mild Moderate Severe transabdominal ultrasound ought to be performed. To evaluate the extent of necrosis, computed tomography Organ failure No Transient Persistent (OF) *1 (<48 h) OF (>48 h) (CT) is indicated but ought not to be performed within single or multiple OF the first three days after symptom onset (level of evi- and/or Local or systemic No Typically present dence: 4, strong consensus). Several studies have complications*2 Present shown that a CT scan performed within six days after Mortality (%) 0.1 2.1 52.2 hospitalization does not lead to a change in therapeutic *1 Defined according to the modified Marshall scoring system for organ failure (9). In a prospective case series with 128 patients with *2 Example of local complications: infected necrosis, portal vein thrombosis idiopathic acute pancreatitis, it was possible to revise
