MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


organ failure (9). In a prospective case series with 128 patients with *2 Example of local complications: infected necrosis, portal vein thrombosis idiopathic acute pancreatitis, it was possible to revise Examples of systemic complications: exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, decompensated heart failure, delirium with known dementia the diagnosis “idiopathic” in 50% of cases, using a combination of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and mag- netic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) (10). for ex-smokers (4, 5).Thus, tobacco smoke ought to be considered the likely most important risk factor (level Fluid therapy, pain management and intensive care of evidence: 2, strong consensus). management AP can be diagnosed if at least two of the following Fluid therapy three criteria are met: Several randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have con- ● typical abdominal pain (acute onset of persistent firmed a correlation between fluid resuscitation and ● serum lipase activity at least three times greater therapy is recommended (level of evidence: 1, strong than the upper limit of normal consensus). Initially, fluid should be replaced at a rate ● characteristic morphology findings in imaging of 200–250 mL/h. A retrospective study analyzed the (strong consensus). outcome of 1097 patients in relation to fluid replace- Given the poorer specificity of serum amylase, only ment, taking into account the initial disease severity the measurement of serum lipase is recommended. (11). After adjustment for various risk factors, it was shown that fluid replacement of at least 6000 mL/24 h Severity classification (250 mL/h) during the first 24 hours was associated The severity of AP is determined retrospectively based with a reduction in mortality (OR 0.58; 95% confi- on the presence of organ failure and complications, and dence intervals [0.34; 0.98]). Fluid replacement at a is classified according to the revised Atlanta classifi- rate of less than 150 mL/h on day 1 was found to be dis- cation (RAC) (6) as mild, moderate or severe (level of advantageous; however, fluid replacement at a rate of evidence: 3, strong consensus) (Table 1). Persistent more than 250 mL/h also showed no benefit in any organ failure (>48 h) is considered the best predictor of study (12). Initial fluid therapy should primarily be per- mortality. formed with Ringer’s lactate solution (level of evi- (criteria for systemic inflammatory response syn- drome [SIRS]) and laboratory parameters—deter- Pain management mined on admission and after 48 hours—ought to be Opioids should be used for pain management in used to predict severity. From
