MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


syn- drome [SIRS]) and laboratory parameters—deter- Pain management mined on admission and after 48 hours—ought to be Opioids should be used for pain management in used to predict severity. From this, prognostic scoring patients with severe pain. Epidural anesthesia may be systems can be derived (level of evidence: 3, consen- used in intensive care units (level of evidence: 2, strong sus).The presence of SIRS on the day of hospital consensus). None of the available data indicates that a dmission has a high sensitivity (85–100%) in pre- the active substances piritramide, morphine, fentanyl, dicting a severe disease course. By contrast, the and sufentanil, which are widely used in Germany, absence of SIRS has a high negative predictive value worsen the prognosis. (98–100%). In addition, it was shown that persistent SIRS (>48 h) is associated with a complicated disease Transfer to intensive care unit and/or specialized course (7). Monitoring and re-evaluation of patients center with acute pancreatitis ought to be performed daily Patients should be transferred to an intensive care unit presence of organ failure, as well as laboratory testing (level of evidence: 2, strong consensus). Furthermore, of parameters such as C-reactive protein (level of evi- if a severe clinical course and/or organ failure is to be dence: 3, strong consensus). The degree of lipase expected, patient transfer to a specialized center ought elevation does not correlate with severity and is only to be considered (level of evidence: 2, consensus). A used to confirm the diagnosis (8). specialized pancreatic center ought to be equipped 24/7 496 Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 MEDICINE with an intensive care unit (>15 ICU patients treated for BOX 1 interventional radiology, a diagnostic and interven- Causes of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency of them with expertise in the management of acute pan- Loss of pancreatic parenchyma 14]) (level of evidence: 5, strong consensus). ●Severe acute pancreatitis ●Pancreatic cancer Antibiotics and nutrition ●Status post pancreatic resection Antibiotic therapy ●Cystic fibrosis (mucoviscidosis) Antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent infectious compli- cations in patients with predicted severe pancreatitis Other common causes cannot be generally recommended (level of evidence: ●Pancreatic duct obstruction 2, strong consensus). A recently published meta- ●Reduced endogenous stimulation analysis of 11 RCTs with a total of 747 patients found – Gluten-sensitive enteropathy (celiac disease) no significant difference in mortality (OR 0.71 [0.44; – Diabetes mellitus, with insulin deficiency (paracrine insulin action stimu- 1.15]; p = 0.16);
