MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


747 patients found – Gluten-sensitive enteropathy (celiac disease) no significant difference in mortality (OR 0.71 [0.44; – Diabetes mellitus, with insulin deficiency (paracrine insulin action stimu- 1.15]; p = 0.16); however, the occurrence of infected lates pancreatic enzyme synthesis) pancreatic necrosis was significantly reduced in the – Status post gastric surgery (gastric resection of the Billroth I or II type, group receiving antibiotics (OR 0.59 [0.42; 0.84]; gastrectomy, gastrojejunal bypass); these surgical procedures are followed p = 0.004) (15). by pancreaticocibal asynchrony the release of cholecystokinin(CCK) and secretin does not occur in synchrony with the necessary secretion of diges- Nutrition tive enzymes into the jejunum Enteral nutrition prevents severe catabolism and infec- tious complications by preserving mucosal integrity. Rare causes Patients with mild pancreatitis should be offered oral ●Protein deficiency nutrition within the first day after hospital admission ●Shwachman-Diamond syndrome (level of evidence: 1, strong consensus). A meta- ●Johanson-Blizzard syndrome analysis of data of 165 patients from 8 randomized ●Hereditary enzyme defects (deficiency of trypsinogen, enterokinase, other pro- studies showed for early nutrition a reduction in the teases or alpha-1 antitrypsin) composite endpoint (mortality, infected pancreatic ●Lack of amylase, lipase necrosis and organ failure) from 45% to 19% (OR 0.44 ●Early inactivation of enzymes (hyperchlorhydria); [0.2; 0.96]) (16). If oral food intake is impossible, pancreatic lipase is particularly sensitive to acid destruction. enteral nutrition should be started as early as possible, even in patients with severe or predicted severe disease course (level of evidence: 2, consensus). Two meta- analyses showed that early enteral nutrition initiated associated with reduced infection rates (OR between tive randomized trial from the Netherlands, the APEC 0.44 and 0.38) (17, 18). Feeding via nasojejunal or trial, did not find a statistically significant advantage nasogastric tube are to be considered equivalent (level of early ERCP (<24 h) in patients with predicted of evidence: 1, strong consensus). severe pancreatitis without cholangitis (relative risk [RR] 0.87 [0.64; 1.18]; p = 0.37) (20). Acute biliary pancreatitis and management of biliary In mild biliary pancreatitis, cholecystectomy complications should be performed during the initial hospital stay In patients with suspected biliary pancreatitis, transab- (level of evidence: 1, consensus). The largest random - dominal ultrasound ought to be performed as the ized controlled trial, the PONCHO trial (21), com- primary imaging modality to diagnose gall bladder pared early (within 3 days) and late (within 25–30 stones. In pancreatitis of unclear etiology, endoscopic days)
