MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


to be assessed in (level of evidence: 2, strong consensus). The endo- compliance with the German Genetic Diagnostics Act. scopic approach is as effective as the percutaneous Given the advances in sequencing technology, it would approach, but it less frequently results in fistula seem useful to investigate all CP-associated variants in Therefore, primarily an endoscopic approach ought to be pursued (level of evidence: 2, consensus) (23, 24). Pancreatic exocrine insufficiency Given the side effects associated with each approach, Pancreatic exocrine insufficiency (PEI) is defined as the least invasive method should be the primary choice reduced secretion of pancreatic enzymes and/or bicar- and only if it fails, escalation to a more invasive bonate into the duodenum. The main causes are sum- approach should follow (step-up approach) (level of marized in Box 1. evidence: 1, strong consensus). Development and clinical signs and symptoms Follow-up There are no clinical signs and symptoms that allow to After a first episode of acute pancreatitis, a structured specifically diagnose pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. follow-up ought to be recommended to the following A noninvasive pancreatic function test should be per- patients (level of evidence: 2, consensus): formed to detect pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. 498 Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 MEDICINE BOX 2 Key recommendations at a glance ●The severity of acute pancreatitis is determined by organ failure and complications along the disease course. ●To determine the extent of pancreatic necrosis, a computed tomography (CT) scan ought not to be obtained within the first three days after symptom onset. ●Goal-directed fluid therapy (GDFT) in patients with severe acute pancreatitis ought to be guided by serum urea and hemato- crit levels as well as parameters of advanced hemodynamic monitoring, among others. The central venous pressure (CVP) ought to be used to guide goal–directed fluid therapy. ●Initial fluid resuscitation should primarily be performed with Ringer's lactate solution. sidered. ●Antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent infectious complications in patients with predicted severe acute pancreatitis cannot be generally recommended. ●Enteral nutrition ought to be started as early as possible in patients with severe or predicted severe disease course. ●Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) should not be performed in patients with mild biliary pancreati- tis without cholangitis and/or in the absence of evidence of choledocholithiasis or biliary obstruction. ●ERCP should not be performed in patients with predicted severe and complicated biliary pancreatitis without cholangitis and/or in the absence of evidence of choledocholithiasis or
