MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


of choledocholithiasis or biliary obstruction. ●ERCP should not be performed in patients with predicted severe and complicated biliary pancreatitis without cholangitis and/or in the absence of evidence of choledocholithiasis or biliary obstruction. ●Given the side effects associated with each approach, the least invasive method should be the primary choice in treating infected walled-off pancreatic necrosis, and only if this fails, escalation to a more invasive approach should follow (step-up approach). ●In the absence of a clear biliary or obstructive mechanical etiology, patients with a single episode of acute pancreatitis ought to be recommended to abstain from nicotine and alcohol. ●Alcohol consumption is the most common confirmed cause of chronic pancreatitis. Further causes include tobacco use, autoimmune diseases, malignancies, genetic alterations, and primary hyperparathyroidism, among others. In at least 15% of cases, the etiology of the disease cannot be identified. ●The morphological changes in chronic pancreatitis ought to be classified using the Cambridge classification, adapted to the respective imaging modality.. ●The Chronic Pancreatitis Prognosis Score (COPPS) ought to be used to estimate the severity of the short- and medium- term course of chronic pancreatitis. ●Pain management in chronic pancreatitis may be provided based on the WHO analgesic ladder. Pregabalin may be used to supplement pain medication. ●Patients with chronic pancreatitis and overt pancreatic exocrine insufficiency (weight loss, malnutrition) ought to receive pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy along with a personalized nutritional intervention to prevent or stop deterioration of nutritional status in a goal-directed manner. ●Painful chronic pancreatitis should not be treated with opioids for more than six months before surgical treatment is recom- mended in patients with a clearly dilated pancreatic duct. If an alternative endoscopic therapy over a period of no more than three months does not achieve a pain-free state, a surgical procedure should be recommended. age 40 years onward or 20 years after symptom onset in the pancreatic center. Suitable analyses include testing for fecal elastase 1 pancreatitis (Table 2) (27). For the morphological (with specific antibodies) and a breath test with evaluation of chronic pancreatitis by EUS, parenchy- 13C-marked lipids (level of evidence: 1, strong consen- mal and ductal signs have been identified and weighted sus). Exocrine pancreatic function assessment ought to as diagnostic criteria (Rosemont classification, eTable be performed at the time of diagnosis of PEI and fol- 3) (e3). lowed up over the course of the disease depending on With the aim of standardizing findings, the
