MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


be performed at the time of diagnosis of PEI and fol- 3) (e3). lowed up over the course of the disease depending on With the aim of standardizing findings, the mor- clinical symptoms. phological changes seen with chronic pancreatitis should be classified according to the Cambridge clas- Imaging and staging sification—modified for the corresponding imaging diagnose chronic pancreatitis. EUS, CT and MRI are sus). The Chronic Pancreatitis Prognosis Score the imaging modalities with the highest sensitivity and (COPPS) ought to be used to estimate the severity of specificity for confirmation of the diagnosis of chronic the short- and medium-term clinical course of chronic Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 499 MEDICINE pancreatitis (level of evidence: 2, consensus). The 70-fold (e4). Patients with hereditary pancreatitis the prognosis of liver cirrhosis (Turcotte-Child-Pugh tory follow-up examinations from age 40 years score). The COPPS model (Table 3) uses the number onward or 20 years after symptom onset in a pancre- one year as surrogate markers for severity (28). sus).The recommendation made here is in line with the consensus recommendation of the International Pharmacotherapy Cancer of the Pancreas Screening (CAPS) consortium The majority of patients with chronic pancreatitis are (39). symptomatic and require long-term specialized out- Conflict of interest statement patient care. Complementary to pain management, a Dr. Beyer received fees for continuing medical education events from Falk treatment attempt with pregabalin can be considered Foundation e. V. and Akcea. He received fees for court-ordered expert (level of evidence: 2, strong consensus) (RCT: mean opinions with content related to the manuscript. In addition, he is the spokesperson for the DGVS Working Group “Pancreas”, coordinator of the reduction of pain score 12% [−21.82; −2.18]) (29). S3-level clinical practice guideline Pancreatitis of the DGVS and a Member of the Board of the German Pancreas Club. Interventional therapy Mrs. Lorenz is a spokeswoman of the DGVS. With regard to interventional therapy, a prerequisite for PD Dr. Lynen received financial support for creating the guideline from the deciding on the best treatment strategy is the availabil- DGVS. ity of an interdisciplinary treatment team. For pancre- Prof. Lerch is the chairman of the German Society of Internal Medicine (DGIM). atic surgery, it has been shown that centers with high case load achieve better patient outcomes and signifi- Prof. Mayerle received fees for continuing medical education events from Falk Foundation e. V. She is Chair of the
