MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


1 What are the most common established risk factors for acute pancreatitis? a) Diabetes and hypertension b) Hypertension and gastritis c) Gastric ulcer and hypertriglyceridemia d) Mediterranean diet and genetic factors e) Gallstones and alcohol abuse Question 2 What does the abbreviation SIRS stand for in the text? a) Systemic infectious reaction syndrome b) Superinfection response syndrome c) Severe infection response syndrome d) Systemic inflammatory response syndrome e) Severe inflammatory reaction symptoms Question 3 What imaging modality should first be performed in patients admitted for suspected biliary pancreatitis? a) Abdominal CT scan b) Transabdominal ultrasound c) Abdominal MRI with contrast d) Abdominal MRI without contrast e) Abdominal x-ray Question 4 More or less, what is the mortality rate in patients with infected (peri-)pancreatic necrosis and organ failure? a) Up to 0.5% b) Up to 5% c) Up to 10% d) Up to 35% e) Up to 55% Question 5 What solution ought to be used for initial fluid resuscitation in patients with acute pancreatitis? a) Ringer's lactate solution b) Ringer’s acetate solution c) 0.9% saline solution d) Ringer’s acetate malate solution e) Glucose solution 5% Question 6 Which of the following laboratory parameters is a useful pancreatic function test for detecting pancreatic exocrine insufficiency? a) Urinary elastase 1 b) Fecal calprotectin c) Fecal elastase 1 d) Fecal lactoferrin e) Urinary pH value A Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material MEDICINE Question 7 What endpoints (for the period of one year) were used in the development of the COPPS model that determines the severity of chronic pancreatitis? a) Number and duration of hospital treatments b) Number and duration of antibiotic administrations c) Number of outpatient visits and drug treatments d) Number and duration of pain episodes e) Number of imaging modalities used and drug prescriptions Question 8 In the management of acute pancreatitis, what volume per unit of time ought to be used for controlled fluid therapy? a) 20–50 mL/h b) 50–100 mL/h c) 150–200 mL/h d) 200–250 mL/h e) 300–350 mL/h Question 9 What substances ought to be used for the pharmacological management of severe pain in patients with pancreatitis? a) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs b) Opioids c) Nitrous oxide (laughing gas) d) Cyclooxygenase inhibitors e) Antipyretic analgesics Question 10 Which of the following conditions is one of the rare causes of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency? a) Pancreatic cancer b) Cystic fibrosis c) Chronic pancreatitis
