MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


and imaging morphology criteria for pancreatitis. Gallstone disease and alcohol abuse are the most common established risk Level of evidence: 3, factors for acute pancreatitis. strong consensus Hypertriglyceridemia is associated with an increased risk of acute pancreati- Level of evidence: 1, tis. strong consensus Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and balloon Level of evidence: 4, enteroscopy are associated with an increased risk of post-interventional consensus p ancreatitis. Tobacco smoking is associated with an increased risk of non-biliary acute Level of evidence: 2, pancreatitis. strong consensus Type 2 diabetes mellitus is associated with an increased risk of acute pancre- Level of evidence: 2, atitis. strong consensus Numerous drugs can trigger acute pancreatitis. In most cases, the diagnosis - , strong consensus is based on the exclusion of other causes. In order to conclusively prove a causal relationship, a re-exposure test would be necessary; however, this is often not ethically justifiable. There is insufficient evidence to support an increased risk of pancreatitis from Level of evidence: 1, the use of the GLP-1 receptor agonists exenatide and liraglutide. strong consensus The use of DPP4 inhibitors is associated with an increased risk of lipasemia; Level of evidence: 1, however, the increase in risk of clinically symptomatic pancreatitis is consensus unknown. The population-based incidence of acute pancreatitis shows a high regional Level of evidence: 1, variability of 13–100/100 000 population in the western world. In Germany, strong consensus the incidence varies between 13 and 43/100 000 population. The incidence of alcohol-induced acute pancreatitis peaks in men between Level of evidence: 1, age 35 and 44 years and in women between age 25 and 34 years. The inci- strong consensus dence of biliary acute pancreatitis significantly increases with increasing age from age 55 years onwards and peaks in patients aged >75 years. Acute pancreatitis can be diagnosed if at least two of the following three crite- Strong consensus ria are met: (1) typical abdominal pain (acute onset of persistent upper abdominal pain, often radiating to the back); (2) serum lipase activity at least three times greater than the upper limit of normal; and (3) characteristic mor- phology findings in imaging. In order to confirm/rule out biliary etiology, laboratory testing for cholestasis Level of evidence: 5, parameters and aminotransferases as well as an upper abdominal ultrasound strong consensus scan ought to be performed at the time of admission. In order to rule out hypertriglyceridemia/hypercalcemia-induced pancreatitis, serum levels of
