MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


aminotransferases as well as an upper abdominal ultrasound strong consensus scan ought to be performed at the time of admission. In order to rule out hypertriglyceridemia/hypercalcemia-induced pancreatitis, serum levels of triglycerides and albumin-adjusted calcium ought to be obtained. In case of unclear etiology, endoscopic ultrasound ought to be performed to Level of evidence: 1, confirm/rule out biliary etiology or pancreatic mass or pancreas divisum. Alter- strong consensus natively or additionally in case of inconclusive findings, MRI/MRCP ought to be performed to assess the biliary and pancreatic duct system and to rule out solid or cystic masses. With regard to the work-up for suspected autoimmune etiology, please refer to the corresponding guideline chapter (WG-8 CP). In patients with recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis, genetic predisposi- Level of evidence: 5, tion testing (see chapter 1 – chronic pancreatitis) may be performed in addi- strong consensus tion to the examinations mentioned under 1.6.3. III Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus Classification of the severity of acute pancreatitis The severity of acute pancreatitis is determined by the presence of organ fail- Level of evidence: 3, ure and complications and can be classified according to the Revised Atlanta strong consensus Classification (RAC; mild, moderate, severe) or the Determinants-based Classification (DBC; mild, moderate, severe, critical). tory parameters—determined on admission and after 48 hours—ought to be consensus used to predict severity. Prognostic scoring systems can be developed from this. Acute pancreatitis ought to be monitored and re-evaluated daily on the basis Level of evidence: 3, ing of parameters such as C-reactive protein. Scoring systems, such as the SOFA score as a composite of the named determinants, can help to better objectify the disease course. Imaging in acute pancreatitis In acute pancreatitis, one goal of imaging is to obtain diagnostic criteria for Level of evidence: 5, acute pancreatitis, if symptoms and laboratory criteria are inconclusive. In strong consensus addition, imaging should reveal complications of the disease in the course of acute pancreatitis, describe the extent of the disease and support treatment planning. Imaging can help classify the severity of the disease and rule out differential diagnoses. In the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms and significantly ele - Level of evidence: 4, vated serum lipase levels (>3x ULN), no CT scan should be obtained to con- c onsensus firm the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. (serum
