MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


significantly ele - Level of evidence: 4, vated serum lipase levels (>3x ULN), no CT scan should be obtained to con- c onsensus firm the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. (serum lipase levels <3x ULN) are inconclusive, transabdominal ultrasound c onsensus ought to be performed as the imaging modality of choice. If ultrasound find- ings are inconclusive, a contrast-enhanced CT scan ought to be performed. If complications of acute pancreatic are clinically suspected, transabdominal Level of evidence: 4, ultrasound ought to be performed (level of evidence: 1). In case of inconclu - consensus sive findings, contrast-enhanced CT should be the next step in the diagnostic work-up. A CT scan to confirm a diagnosis of necrosis ought not to be performed within Level of evidence: 4, the first three days after symptom onset. strong consensus The modified CT Severity Index (MCTSI) may be used to assess the severity Level of evidence: 4, of acute pancreatitis based on CT findings. strong consensus and portal-venous phase imaging). In the arterial contrast phase, only the consensus upper abdomen ought to be scanned. By contrast, in the portal-venous phase the whole abdomen is scanned. With this approach it is possible to (i) obtain an adequate diagnosis; (ii) accurately determine pancreatic necrosis; (iii) comprehensively visualize fluid collections; and (iv) diagnose/rule out vascu- lar complications. of 300 mg/mL or more ought to be used. The contrast medium ought to be consensus administered intravenously with a flow rate of more than 3 mL/s. The amount of contrast medium administered ought to be between 1 and 1.5 mL/kg/KG (max. 150 mL), depending on the iodine concentration used and the device technology. In case of absolute contraindications to contrast-enhanced CT (e.g., known Level of evidence: 5, relevant contrast allergy with cardiovascular reaction or airway edema), non- consensus contrast abdominal CT and supplementary contrast-enhanced upper abdomi- nal MRI If a therapeutic consequences is to be expected, renal failure is not a contraindication to contrast-enhanced CT. After an episode of acute idiopathic pancreatitis, endoscopic ultrasound (or Level of evidence: 4, MRI with MRCP) ought to be performed in the interval to rule out choledo- consensus cholithiasis or a space-occupying lesion. Fluid therapy, pain management and intensive care management in acute pancreatitis In acute pancreatitis, controlled fluid therapy should be performed. Level of evidence: 1, strong consensus Immediately after confirmation of the diagnosis, controlled fluid therapy ought Level of evidence: 2 to 5, to
