MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


pancreatitis, controlled fluid therapy should be performed. Level of evidence: 1, strong consensus Immediately after confirmation of the diagnosis, controlled fluid therapy ought Level of evidence: 2 to 5, to be started. consensus Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material IV MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus As long as goal-directed fluid therapy (GDFT) cannot be started, initially Level of evidence: 2, 200–250 mL/h of fluid ought to be given. Based on the assumption of an consensus already existing fluid deficit, administration of an initial bolus may be con- sidered useful. Instead of inflexible standard therapy, goal-directed fluid therapy ought to be Level of evidence: 2, administered. consensus Goal-directed fluid therapy in patients with severe acute pancreatitis ought to Level of evidence: 2, be guided by BUN (serum urea) and hematocrit levels as well as parameters consensus of advanced hemodynamic monitoring, among others. The central venous pressure (CVP) ought not to be used as the goal of goal–directed fluid ther- apy. Persistence or resolution of organ failure as well as SIRS criteria ought to be Level of evidence: 2, used for evaluating the response to initial fluid resuscitation. strong consensus Initial fluid resuscitation should primarily be performed with Ringer's lactate Level of evidence: 1, solution. strong consensus Opioids (preferably pentazocine, buprenorphine and pethidine) ought to be Level of evidence: 2, used for pain management in patients with severe pain. Epidural anesthesia strong consensus may be used in intensive care units. In patients treated with opioids, special attention ought to be paid to intestinal - , paralysis and respiratory depression. Epidural anesthesia ought to be accom- Strong consensus panied by cardiovascular monitoring. Combinations of different analgesics may be used for pain management. Level of evidence: 3, consensus Intra-abdominal pressure ought to be determined by measuring the urinary Level of evidence: 2, bladder pressure. strong consensus Intraabdominal hypertension and compartment syndrome ought to be defined Level of evidence: 5, according to the World Society of Abdominal Compartment (WSACS) expert strong consensus commission. Patients with markers for an unfavorable prognosis (BISAP score ≥ 3, Level of evidence: 2, APACHE II score ≥ 8, Ranson score ≥ 3, elevated hematocrit [≥ 44% in men, strong consensus ≥40 in women], BUN ≥ 25 mg/dL; increase in SOFA scores by ≥ 2 points, among others) ought to be transferred to an intensive care unit. transfer to a specialized center ought
