MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


women], BUN ≥ 25 mg/dL; increase in SOFA scores by ≥ 2 points, among others) ought to be transferred to an intensive care unit. transfer to a specialized center ought to be considered. consensus A center specialized in the management of acute pancreatitis ought to have Level of evidence: 5, ogy, a diagnostic and interventional endoscopy unit, and a surgical depart- ment continuously available, each of them with expertise in the management of acute pancreatitis. Antibiotics, probiotics and nutrition in acute pancreatitis (prevention and management of infectious complications) Antibiotic prophylaxis ought not to be administered in patients with mild and Level of evidence: 2, predicted mild pancreatitis. strong consensus Antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent infectious complications in patients with pre- Level of evidence: 2, dicted severe pancreatitis cannot be generally recommended. strong consensus If in septic patients with suspected infected (peri)pancreatic necrosis (based Level of evidence: 2, started, a carbapenem antibiotic may be used until the results of antibiotic susceptibility testing have become available. Antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent cholangitis can currently not be recom- Level of evidence: 5, mended. consensus Selective bowel decontamination cannot be generally recommended based Level of evidence: 3, on the limited data on acute pancreatitis currently available. consensus Probiotics should not be given to prevent infectious complications. Level of evidence: 1, consensus Patients with mild pancreatitis should be offered oral nutrition within the first Level of evidence: 1, day after hospital admission. strong consensus Patients with mild/predicted mild pancreatitis should not receive total paren- Level of evidence: 1, teral nutrition. strong consensus Enteral nutrition ought to be started as early as possible in patients with Level of evidence: 2, severe or predicted severe disease course. consensus V Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus For enteral nutrition, a high-molecular-weight tube feed should be used. Level of evidence: 2, strong consensus Feeding via nasojejunal or nasogastric tube are considered equivalent. Level of evidence: 1, strong consensus Acute biliary pancreatitis and management of biliary complications The diagnosis of biliary pancreatitis ought not to be established on the basis Level of evidence: 2, combination of medical history (known gallstones disease, family history), laboratory parameters (elevated aminotransferase levels and cholestasis parameters) and imaging (ultrasound, EUS, MRI/MRCP, CT) is suggestive of biliary etiology. reliability solely based on Charcot’s triad (right-sided upper abdominal pain, consensus elevated bilirubin levels and fever >38.4
