MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


cholestasis parameters) and imaging (ultrasound, EUS, MRI/MRCP, CT) is suggestive of biliary etiology. reliability solely based on Charcot’s triad (right-sided upper abdominal pain, consensus elevated bilirubin levels and fever >38.4 °C) . Diagnostic accuracy increases in combination with biliary duct dilation and elevated cholestasis and inflam- matory parameters. However, systemic inflammatory parameters, upper abdominal pain and elevated bilirubin levels can also occur in the absence of cholangitis in patients with acute biliary pancreatitis, making it significantly more challenging to rule out acute cholangitis. ERCP should not be performed in patients with mild biliary pancreatitis with- Level of evidence: 2, out cholangitis and/or in the absence of evidence of choledocholithiasis or strong consensus biliary obstruction. ERCP ought not to be performed in patients with predicted severe and com- Level of evidence: 2, plicated biliary pancreatitis without cholangitis and/or in the absence of evi- consensus dence of choledocholithiasis or biliary obstruction. Patients with acute biliary pancreatitis and concomitant cholangitis should Level of evidence: 1, undergo ERCP with sphincterotomy. strong consensus Patients with biliary pancreatitis and confirmed choledocholithiasis and/or bili- Level of evidence: 2, ary obstruction should undergo ERCP with sphincterotomy. strong consensus Evidence from currently available studies does not allow to conclusively Level of evidence: 2, d etermine the optimum timing of ERCP with sphincterotomy in patients with strong consensus acute biliary pancreatitis and confirmed choledocholithiasis and/or biliary obstruction without cholangitis. The primary imaging modality used to detect biliary obstruction in patients Level of evidence: 2, with acute biliary pancreatitis should be transabdominal ultrasound with c onsensus visualization of the intra- and extrahepatic biliary system as well as potential outflow obstructions (e.g. choledocholithiasis). In patients with suspected acute biliary pancreatitis and no evidence of biliary Level of evidence: 2, dilation or mechanical outflow obstruction in transabdominal ultrasound, EUS strong consensus or MRCP should be performed—ERCP intended entirely for diagnostic pur- poses is considered obsolete. After an episode of acute biliary pancreatitis, a cholecystectomy ought to be Level of evidence: 2, performed. strong consensus In mild biliary pancreatitis, cholecystectomy should be performed during the Level of evidence: 1, initial hospital stay. consensus The timing of cholecystectomy in patients with severe (necrotizing) biliary Level of evidence: 5, pancreatitis is decided on a case-by-case basis and determined based on the strong consensus clinical course of the severe acute pancreatitis. If it is not possible to perform cholecystectomy after an episode of biliary pan- Level of
