MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


and determined based on the strong consensus clinical course of the severe acute pancreatitis. If it is not possible to perform cholecystectomy after an episode of biliary pan- Level of evidence: 3, creatitis, ERCP with sphincterotomy can be performed to lower the risk of strong consensus r ecurrence. Indication, timing and treatment methods in infected necrosis If an infected necrosis is clinically suspected, an endoscopic ultrasound Level of evidence: 2, (EUS) and contrast-enhanced cross-sectional imaging (CT or MRI) should be consensus performed for further differential diagnostic work-up prior to a planned inter- vention. In acute necrotizing pancreatitis, ultrasound, CT or endosonography-guided Level of evidence: 2, fine-needle aspiration ought to only be performed if imaging and/or clinical consensus and laboratory findings over the disease course do not unequivocally support an intervention, while at the same time an infection of the necrosis is sus- pected. Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material VI MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus Prophylactic antibiotic/antifungal treatment without evidence of an infected Level of evidence: 2, not be performed. Patients with signs of infected pancreatic necrosis ought to be treated with Level of evidence: 3, antibiotics in parallel to the intervention (see below). strong consensus Patients with severe pancreatitis and confirmed bacteremia should be treated Level of evidence: 3, with antibiotics. If at the same time an invasive fungal infection is detected, strong consensus antifungal treatment should be performed. In presumably sterile necrotizing pancreatitis, patients with compression Level of evidence: 2, symptoms and/or early multi-organ failure should undergo an intervention. strong consensus In patients with infected pancreatic necrosis, an intervention should be per- Level of evidence: 2, The endoscopic approach (transgastric or transduodenal) is as effective as Level of evidence: 2, the percutaneous approach, but it is associated with a lower rate of fistula consensus scopic approach ought to be pursued. In case of a difficult endoscopic approach, primarily a percutaneous drainage Level of evidence: 2, ought to be placed, which can be combined with a flexible endoscopic or strong consensus inflexible minimally invasive surgical technique. The type of intervention (drainage only, rinsing, necrosectomy) should be Level of evidence: 2, decided based on the presentation of the infected pancreatic fluid collection strong consensus (extent, location, necrosis?). Given the side effects associated with each approach, the least invasive Level of evidence: 1, method should be the primary choice and only if this
