MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


strong consensus (extent, location, necrosis?). Given the side effects associated with each approach, the least invasive Level of evidence: 1, method should be the primary choice and only if this fails, escalation to a strong consensus more invasive approach should follow (step-up approach). An open surgical procedure (laparotomy) should only be performed as the Level of evidence: 3, first-line treatment in exceptional cases. consensus Plastic stents or lumen-apposing metal stents (LAMS) ought to be used for Level of evidence: 2, endoscopy-guided drainage of infected (peri-)pancreatic necrosis. strong consensus If drainage is required for more than four weeks, plastic stents ought to be Level of evidence: 2, used. strong consensus Follow-up after acute pancreatitis After a first episode of acute pancreatitis, a structured follow-up ought to be Level of evidence: 2, recommended to the following patients: consensus - non-mild severity, irrespective of etiology - alcohol-induced pancreatitis, any severity - any severity in case of unclear etiology and age >40 years - in the absence of complete resolution of symptoms after discharge In symptom-free patients after the first episode of non-mild acute pancreatitis, Level of evidence: 2, an annual clinical follow-up examination and testing for exocrine and endo- consensus crine insufficiency (fecal elastase and HbA1c/fasting glucose) ought to be performed. During the first two years after an episode of alcohol-induced acute pancreati- Level of evidence: 2, tis, symptom-free patients ought to be recommended to undergo six-monthly consensus clinical follow-up examinations and testing for exocrine and endocrine insuffi- ogist and a behavioral intervention. The goal is complete abstinence from alcohol. Symptom-free patients with a first episode of acute pancreatitis of unknown Level of evidence: 2, etiology and age >40 years ought to undergo contrast-enhanced cross- strong consensus sectional imaging or endoscopic ultrasound no later than three months after resolution of an attack of acute pancreatitis to rule out pancreatic cancer. A nother imaging follow-up may be performed after 12–24 months. In symptom-free diabetic patients with a one-time episode of acute pancreati- Level of evidence: 3, tis of unknown etiology who are over age 40 years and in whom no signs of strong consensus pancreatic neoplasia have been found over the course of the follow-up, extending the follow-up period to 5 years with annual imaging flow-ups may be considered. In symptom-free patients with a first episode of non-alcohol-induced, mild Level of evidence: 2, acute pancreatitis of known and ideally treated etiology, a structured follow-up
