MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


imaging flow-ups may be considered. In symptom-free patients with a first episode of non-alcohol-induced, mild Level of evidence: 2, acute pancreatitis of known and ideally treated etiology, a structured follow-up consensus may be omitted. VII Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus In symptom-free non-diabetic patients with a single episode of acute pancre- Level of evidence: 2, atitis of unknown etiology who are over age 40 years and in whom no signs of consensus pancreatic neoplasia have been found over the course of the follow-up, it may be considered to end the follow-up after two years. In the absence of a clear biliary or obstructive mechanical etiology, patients Level of evidence: 2 with a single episode of acute pancreatitis ought to be recommended to alcohol / 3 tobacco, abstain from nicotine and alcohol. strong consensus Definition, epidemiology and etiology of chronic pancreatitis Chronic pancreatitis is a disease of the pancreas in which recurrent episodes strong consensus, of inflammation result in replacement of pancreatic parenchyma by fibrous adopted from the 2012 guide- connective tissue. The fibrous transformation of the pancreas leads to a pro- line, reviewed in 2021 gressive loss of exocrine and endocrine pancreatic function. In addition, there are characteristic complications, such as pseudocysts, pancreatic duct steno- sis, duodenal stenosis, vascular complications, compression of the biliary ducts, malnutrition, and pain syndrome. Pain is the cardinal symptom of patients with chronic pancreatitis. Chronic pancreatitis is a risk factor for pan- creatic cancer. The quality of life and life expectancy of patients with chronic pancreatitis is significantly reduced by the disease. Alcohol consumption is the most common confirmed cause of chronic pancre- Level of evidence: 4, atitis. Further causes include tobacco use, autoimmune diseases, malignan- strong consensus cies, genetic alterations, and primary hyperparathyroidism, among others. In some cases, the etiology of the disease cannot be determined. In patients with suspected genetically determined chronic pancreatitis, initially Level of evidence: 5, the genes PRSS1 (exons 2 and 3), SPINK1 (exon 3) and CPA1 (exons 7, 8 strong consensus and 10) ought to be assessed. Given the advances in sequencing technology, it would seem useful to investigate all CP-associated variants in the future. Genetic testing may be indicated in patients with a positive family history (at Level of evidence: 5, least one first-grade or two second-grade affected relatives) or with early strong consensus
