MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


Genetic testing may be indicated in patients with a positive family history (at Level of evidence: 5, least one first-grade or two second-grade affected relatives) or with early strong consensus onset of the disease (before age 30 years), if no other obvious cause can be identified. If a genetic variant predisposing to chronic pancreatitis is identified in a Pursuant to the German Gen- patient, the patient should receive counselling by specialists in human etic Diagnostics Act of 31 July cation in genetic counseling pursuant to the German Genetic Diagnostics Act. strong consensus The causes of pain in chronic pancreatitis are multifactorial and their patho- Level of evidence: 5, physiology is not fully understood. Pain can be related to structural changes strong consensus in the pancreas, but also neuropathic. Diagnostic workup (function tests, imaging, classification) in chronic pancreatitis Exocrine pancreatic function and morphological signs of chronic pancreatitis Level of evidence: 1, are not necessarily correlated; thus, both morphology examination and func- strong consensus tion testing should be used to establish the diagnosis. A noninvasive pancreatic function test should be performed to detect pancre- Level of evidence: 1, atic exocrine insufficiency. Suitable analyses include testing for fecal elastase strong consensus 1 (with specific antibodies) and a breath test with 13C-marked lipids. The exocrine pancreatic function ought to be evaluated at the time of diag- Level of evidence: 4, nosis of the disease. In addition, exocrine pancreatic function testing should strong consensus be performed over the course of the disease, if, after initially normal pancre- could be associated with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. In patients with diabetes, a noninvasive test of pancreatic exocrine function Level of evidence: 5, pancreatic exocrine insufficiency, e.g. unexplained weight loss. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), CT and MRI are the imaging modalities with Level of evidence: 2, the highest sensitivity and specificity for establishing the diagnosis of chronic consensus pancreatitis. Given its non-invasive nature and widespread use, transabdominal ultra- sound ought to be the basic examination modality to be initially used, despite its low accuracy. In case of inconclusive findings, an endoscopic ultrasound ought to be per- formed after the transabdominal ultrasound. CT and MRI provide additional information in case of inconclusive findings. Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material VIII MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus Endoscopic ultrasound is the diagnostic method of choice to diagnose Level of evidence: 2, chronic pancreatitis in an
