MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


119: 495–501 | Supplementary material VIII MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus Endoscopic ultrasound is the diagnostic method of choice to diagnose Level of evidence: 2, chronic pancreatitis in an early stage with high sensitivity. strong consensus Over the course of chronic pancreatitis, endoscopic ultrasound should be used for the detection and classification of complications (necrosis, pseudo- cysts) and especially for the management of significant pancreatic pseudo- cysts or necrosis. Cambridge classification, adapted to the respective imaging modality. strong consensus The Chronic Pancreatitis Prognosis Score (COPPS) ought to be used to esti- Level of evidence: 2, mate the severity of the short- and medium-term clinical course of chronic consensus pancreatitis. Pharmacotherapy of chronic pancreatitis The same principles that apply to the treatment of acute pancreatitis also Strong consensus apply to the treatment of acute attacks in patients with chronic pancreatitis. Thus, for detailed recommendations please refer to the corresponding section of the Guideline on Acute Pancreatitis. Pain management in chronic pancreatitis may be provided based on the Level of evidence: 5, WHO analgesic ladder. strong consensus The decision on the duration of an attempt to pharmacologically control pain Level of evidence: 5, in chronic pancreatitis may be made on a case-by-case basis. However, if strong consensus these attempts fail, regular re-evaluations ought to be performed and endo- scopic or surgical procedures added to the pain management plan, if required. Weaning from pain medications may be undertaken by following the steps of Level of evidence: 5, the WHO Pain Ladder in reverse order. strong consensus Octreotide should not be used to manage pain in chronic pancreatitis. Level of evidence: 1b, strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 Pregabalin may be used in addition to other pain medications on a trial basis. Level of evidence: 2, strong consensus In general, pancreatic enzymes ought not to be used for pain management in Level of evidence: 1, chronic pancreatitis. consensus The use of pancreatic enzymes on a trial basis may be useful if there is evi- Level of evidence: 1, dence that malabsorption is causing the abdominal pain. strong consensus Currently, no recommendation can be made with regard to the use of antiox- Level of evidence: 2, idants for pain management in chronic pancreatitis. strong consensus Montelukast ought not to be used for pain management in chronic pancreati- Level of evidence: 2, tis. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed
