MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


adopted chosen. from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 The pancreatin dose given should offer sufficient enzymatic activity for digest- Level of evidence: 1b, ing a meal. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 Dosing of pancreatin preparations is based on lipase activity. Per main meal, Level of evidence: 1b, 40 000 to 50 000 units Ph. Eur. ought to be given as a starting dose, for strong consensus, adopted digesting smaller snacks between meals about half of this dose. from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 In case of inadequate effectiveness, the enzyme dose ought to be doubled or, Level of evidence: 5, if required, tripled. strong consensus If effectiveness continues to be inadequate, pancreatin powder or granules Level of evidence: 2b, ought to be combined with an acid inhibitor. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 cause of the persisting symptoms ought to be searched. sensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in Almost all pancreatic enzyme preparations available in Germany contain por- Level of evidence: 5, cine pancreatin. As a medicine, these can often be taken by patients who strong consensus would otherwise refuse to consume preparations of porcine origin (for reli - gious or ethical reasons). When pancreatic enzyme preparations are given, attention ought to be paid Level of evidence: 3b, to potential adverse reactions, such as abdominal symptoms (in <10% strong consensus, adopted abdominal pain, altered bowel motion, nausea/vomiting) or allergic reactions from the 2012 guideline, (in <1% of patients). reviewed in 2021 Very high enzyme doses (>10 000–20 000 units lipase per kg body weight Level of evidence: 5, per day) ought to be avoided, if possible. strong consensus In patients with diabetes mellitus and newly started or increased pancreatin Level of evidence: 2, treatment, blood glucose levels ought to be temporarily more closely moni- strong consensus tored, because the enhanced digestion of nutrients may lead to changes in blood glucose regulation. Pancreatic exocrine insufficiency is not the only reason for malnutrition in Level of evidence: 3b, patients with chronic pancreatitis; pain-related reduction in food intake or con- strong consensus, adopted tinued alcohol consumption may also cause or aggravate malnutrition. In from the 2012 guideline, addition, the basal metabolic rate is increased in some patients. reviewed in 2021 Patients with chronic pancreatitis and overt pancreatic exocrine insufficiency Level of evidence: 2, (weight loss, malnutrition) ought to receive pancreatic
