MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


metabolic rate is increased in some patients. reviewed in 2021 Patients with chronic pancreatitis and overt pancreatic exocrine insufficiency Level of evidence: 2, (weight loss, malnutrition) ought to receive pancreatic enzyme replacement consensus therapy along with a personalized nutritional intervention by a nutritionist to prevent or stop deterioration of nutritional status in a targeted manner. The nutritional intervention should be aimed at providing an adequate supply Level of evidence: 5, of nutrients, vitamins and trace elements as well as adequately meeting the strong consensus, adopted individual daily energy requirements to avoid catabolism. from the 2012 guideline As a rule, patients with chronic pancreatitis and overt pancreatic exocrine Level of evidence: 2, insufficiency ought to be treated with a standard isocaloric diet and adequate strong consensus, adopted pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy. For a better response, dietary intake from the 2012 guideline, can be divided into 4–6 (proportionally smaller) meals. reviewed in 2021 A low-fat diet cannot (generally) be recommended. Only if with progressing Level of evidence: 5, of fat maldigestion despite adequate oral enzyme replacement, the amount of from the 2012 guideline, fat consumed orally may be reduced as tolerated. reviewed in 2021 Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material X MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus improve fat absorption in patients with exocrine insufficiency who are not strong consensus, adopted receiving enzyme replacement therapy. Medium-chain triglycerides ought not from the 2012 guideline, to be recommended to patients on enzyme replacement therapy. reviewed in 2021 Additional nutritional approaches (oral, enteral or parenteral) may be neces - Level of evidence: 2b, sary in patients with advanced pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 As a rule, patients with chronic pancreatitis should refrain from alcohol con- Level of evidence: 2b, sumption. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021, NKLM Any deficiency in vitamins or trace elements should be replaced in a targeted Level of evidence: 2b, manner. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021, NKLM In adults, the indication for replacement of vitamins and trace elements ought Level of evidence: 5, to be established primarily based on clinical signs of deficiency. Additional strong consensus measuring of serum concentrations ought to be performed on a case-by-case basis only. In pediatric patients, the indication for replacement therapy ought to be estab- Level of evidence: 5, lished on
