MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


of serum concentrations ought to be performed on a case-by-case basis only. In pediatric patients, the indication for replacement therapy ought to be estab- Level of evidence: 5, lished on a liberal basis and before clinical signs of deficiency occur. strong consensus Endoscopic and interventional therapy Painful chronic pancreatitis should not be treated with opioids for more than Level of evidence: 1, six months before primary surgical treatment is recommended to patients with strong consensus a considerably dilated pancreatic duct. If an alternative endoscopic therapy of no more than three months does not result in the patient being pain-free, a surgical procedure should again be rec- ommended. If a resectable pancreatic cancer is suspected, the patient should undergo Level of evidence: 2, surgical treatment. An endoscopic ultrasound-guided aspiration biopsy may strong consensus be obtained from atypical lesions. The presence of pancreatic endocrine insufficiency or of a combination of Levels of evidence: 1–4, e ndocrine and exocrine insufficiency is by itself not an indication for surgical strong consensus or interventional treatment of chronic pancreatitis. stenosis persist, the patient should undergo surgical or, in case of unresect- strong consensus ability, interventional treatment. Chronic pancreatitis patients with benign biliary stenosis or biliary dilatation Level of evidence: 2, without pain ought to receive endoscopic or surgical treatment. consensus If a pancreatic pseudocyst causes complications, the patient ought to receive Level of evidence: 2, interventional or surgical treatment. strong consensus First-line treatment of symptomatic pancreatic pseudocysts ought to be endo- Level of evidence: 3, scopic drainage of the pseudocysts; in case of pseudocyst recurrence, surgi- c onsensus cal treatment may be considered. The decision whether to perform endoscopic or surgical pseudocyst drainage Level of evidence: 3, ought to be made taking into account the location of the pseudocyst and the strong consensus type of additional pathomorphological changes. Asymptomatic pancreatic pseudocysts that measure more than 5 cm in diam- Level of evidence: 2, 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 Prior to draining a pseudocyst, MRI with MRCP may be obtained to be able to Level of evidence: 4, assess the morphology of the pancreatic duct (connection to the cyst, rup- consensus ture). Endoscopic drainage of pseudocysts may be performed via a transgastric or Level of evidence: 4, transduodenal approach. In addition, there is the option of percutaneous strong consensus, adopted drainage; however, this approach is associated with risk of external fistula from the 2012 guideline, formation and
