MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


transduodenal approach. In addition, there is the option of percutaneous strong consensus, adopted drainage; however, this approach is associated with risk of external fistula from the 2012 guideline, formation and thus ought not to be chosen as the first-line treatment. reviewed in 2021 Transpapillary drainage of pseudocysts may be used for cysts <5 cm in diam- Level of evidence: 4, eter that communicate with the pancreatic duct and are located in the pancre- consensus atic head/body. XI Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus Transmural endoscopic needle aspiration ought to be performed under Level of evidence: 3, endosonographic guidance. strong consensus Double-pigtail drains ought to be removed not earlier than 6 weeks after res- Level of evidence: 2, olution of the pseudocyst. Exclusion of a rupture of the pancreatic duct may strong consensus be undertaken. Diagnostic aspiration biopsy of a cystic pancreatic lesion in patients with Level of evidence: 4, chronic pancreatitis ought to be performed, if a pre-malignant cystic neoplasia consensus is suspected and may be used to diagnose infected cyst content. If a malignant cystic lesion is suspected, a surgical approach should be Level of evidence: 4, chosen. strong consensus In patients with chronic pancreatitis with advanced pancreatic duct changes, Level of evidence: 2b, especially with pancreatolithiasis, a pseudocyst ought to be treated as a part strong consensus, adopted of an overall therapeutic strategy. from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 Pancreatic duct stenosis may be treated in the presence of a pancreatic Level of evidence: 4, pseudocyst, prestenotic duct dilatation or fistula. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 If pancreatic pseudocysts are suspected or represent the indication for per- Level of evidence: 4, forming a, ERCP, peri-interventional antibiotic therapy should be performed. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 Vascular pseudoaneurysms ought to be treated in patients with chronic pan- strong consensus, creatitis. Clinical consensus point Bleeding pancreatic pseudoaneurysms ought to be treated with angiographic Level of evidence: 3, techniques. strong consensus Pancreatic duct stones causing pain by obstructing the outflow of pancreatic Level of evidence: 1, secretions, inducing recurrent attacks, maintaining a pseudocyst or fistula, or consensus bringing about other complications, ought to be treated. In the long term, sur- gical treatment is superior to endoscopic treatment. Pancreatic duct stenosis causing pain by obstructing the outflow of
