MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


bringing about other complications, ought to be treated. In the long term, sur- gical treatment is superior to endoscopic treatment. Pancreatic duct stenosis causing pain by obstructing the outflow of pancreatic Level of evidence: 1, secretions, inducing recurrent attacks, maintaining a pseudocyst or fistula, or strong consensus bringing about other complications, ought to be treated. Endoscopic dilation and stenting may be performed as first-line treatment.. In the subgroup of patients with chronic pancreatitis and pain not previously treated with opioids and a pancreatic duct measuring >5 mm in diameter, first-line treatment ought to be surgical. Endoscopic stenting of the pancreatic duct ought to be performed, if symp - Level of evidence: 1, tomatic pancreatic duct stones or a pancreatic duct stenosis close to the consensus papilla of Vater are obstructing the outflow. No general recommendations can be made for the required duration of stent therapy after complete relief from pain has been achieved. If surgical treatment is contraindicated, pain management may include the Level of evidence: 4, insertion of a fully covered metal stent into the pancreatic duct. consensus Isolated pancreatic duct stones causing pain by obstructing the outflow of Level of evidence: 2, pancreatic secretions, inducing recurrent attacks, maintaining a pseudocyst consensus or fistula, or bringing about other complications, may be treated with ESWL, pancreatoscopy-guided electrohydraulic lithotripsy or laser lithotripsy. In case of chronic pancreatitis-related distal biliary duct stenosis along with Level of evidence: 4, in 24 hours. In case of a chronic pancreatitis-related distal biliary duct stenosis with cho- Level of evidence: 4, lestasis or icterus for more than 4 weeks, endoscopic stenting or surgical strong consensus treatment ought to be performed. Endoscopic treatment of distal biliary duct stenosis ought to be performed by Level of evidence: 3, inserting several stents or one fcSEMS. strong consensus Endoscopic treatment of chronic pancreatitis-related distal biliary duct steno- Level of evidence: 4, sis ought not to be performed for a period of more than 12 months. If plastic strong consensus stents are used, the stents ought to be replaced at least every 6 months. After a failed attempt of treating a chronic biliary duct stenosis endoscopically, Level of evidence: 1, the patient should receive surgical treatment. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material XII MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus If first-line surgical treatment of chronic pancreatitis with
