MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


2012 guideline Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material XII MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus If first-line surgical treatment of chronic pancreatitis with cholestatic jaundice Level of evidence: 2, is indicated, preoperative endoscopic stenting of the biliary duct ought to be strong consensus, adopted performed only if (1) surgery cannot be performed immediately or (2) in the from the 2012 guideline, presence of cholangitis. reviewed in 2021 the statistical and individual life expectancy of the patient, the better their strong consensus general condition, and the lower the expected morbidity and mortality of the pancreas-resecting procedure, the more likely a surgical treatment approach ought to be chosen. The lower the statistical and individual life expectancy of the patient, the greater the comorbidity and the more challenging the expected technical difficulty of the surgical procedure (e.g., extensive collat- eral circulation due to portal hypertension), the more likely endoscopic treat- ment should be preferred over a pancreas-resecting procedure. Indication and surgical management in chronic pancreatitis Patients with pain requiring continuous analgesic treatment should undergo Level of evidence: 1, first-line surgical, or, in case of unresectability, interventional treatment. strong consensus In presence of preoperative cholestasis (imaging and/or laboratory findings), Level of evidence: 2, intraoperative internal drainage of the intrapancreatic biliary duct ought to be strong consensus performed. be used in patients with chronic pancreatitis, first-line oncological pancreatic strong consensus resection should be performed—subject to tumor location as a Kausch- Whipple procedure (classic or pylorus-preserving), a pancreatic left resection, or a total pancreatectomy. Patients with chronic pancreatitis should undergo surgery early, within a few Level of evidence: 2, months (<2–6 months) after initiation of opioid treatment for pain manage- consensus ment. lation due to long sections of occlusion of the portal-superior mesenteric strong consensus veins, preference ought to be given to resection of the pancreatic head by means of a variant of the duodenum-preserving pancreatic head resection procedure, because of the great complexity of a Kausch-Whipple procedure in this situation. If an organ-preserving procedure is performed (e.g., a variant of the Level of evidence: 4, duodenum-preserving pancreatic head resection, DPPHR), intraoperative strong consensus frozen-section analysis of the surgical resection specimen ought to be per- formed to rule out malignancy. intensive pathological analysis (intensified tissue collection). The aim of this strong consensus strategy is (1) to definitely rule out malignancy and (2) to obtain insights into the etiology. In
