MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


malignancy. intensive pathological analysis (intensified tissue collection). The aim of this strong consensus strategy is (1) to definitely rule out malignancy and (2) to obtain insights into the etiology. In case of cholestasis with duct dilation due to compression of the common Level of evidence: 2, hepatic duct (CHD), primary endoscopy and stenting of the biliary duct ought strong consensus, NKLM to be performed in the absence of other surgical indications (suspected malignancy, pain controllable with opioids, etc.). However, if symptoms or cholestasis persist after temporary endoscopic treatment (maximum duration: 12 months), surgical resection ought to be performed. In patients with calci - fying pancreatitis, first-line surgical treatment is indicated. Resection of the pancreatic head is the standard surgical treatment for Level of evidence: 1, chronic pancreatitis with inflammatory pseudotumor of the pancreatic head. strong consensus One of the variants of duodenum-preserving pancreatic head resection tech- niques (technique described by Beger, technique according to Frey or Berner modification) or the Kausch-Whipple procedure (in the classic or pylorus- preserving variant) should be performed. In the absence of an inflammatory pancreatic head tumor and congested Level of evidence: 3, pancreatic duct, a modification of the duodenum-preserving pancreatic head strong consensus resections or drainage surgery may be performed. procedure numbers. consensus Monitoring and follow-up Once a patient is diagnosed with chronic pancreatitis, monitoring/follow-up Level of evidence: 1, ought to be recommended, since morbidity and mortality are found increased consensus in patients with chronic pancreatitis compared to an age-adjusted control group. XIII Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus If signs of impaired bone metabolism or reduced nutritional status are noted, Level of evidence: 2, the exocrine function should be re-assessed. consensus Follow-up endocrine function testing should be performed as a parameter to Level of evidence: 1, monitor disease progression. For this purpose, HbA1c/fasting blood glucose strong consensus should be measured. If a patient with chronic pancreatitis experiences unintended weight loss or Level of evidence: 1, develops B symptoms, icterus or diabetes mellitus, imaging studies should be strong consensus obtained to rule out pancreatic cancer. An attack of acute pancreatitis should also be investigated with diagnostic imaging to exclude complications that would require treatment. After a surgical or interventional treatment, a one-time follow-up to evaluate Level of evidence: 1, treatment success and exclude complications ought to be performed. consensus In patients with
