MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


require treatment. After a surgical or interventional treatment, a one-time follow-up to evaluate Level of evidence: 1, treatment success and exclude complications ought to be performed. consensus In patients with chronic pancreatitis, endocrine pancreatic function should be Level of evidence: 1, followed-up annually by measuring HbA1c/ fasting glucose levels, because strong consensus the long-term prognosis of patients who develop diabetes is poorer due to an increased comorbidity risk. Follow-up care for patient with uncomplicated chronic pancreatitis ought to be Level of evidence: 2, provided by primary-care providing specialists in internal medicine, general strong consensus practitioners and gastroenterologists. In case of complications, specialists in visceral medicine (gastroenterologists and visceral surgeons) ought to get involved in the management of the patient. Depending on the disease-related comorbidities, other specialties (psychologists, endocrinologists, (medical) nutritionists, pain therapists, radiologists) ought to get involved as well. Surgi- cal or interventional procedures ought to be preceded by a discussion of the case in a broad interdisciplinary board, ideally in a pancreatic center. Patients developing complications of chronic pancreatitis which require surgi- Level of evidence: 2, cal or interventional treatment ought to be referred to a pancreatic center. consensus A behavioral intervention ought to be recommended to patients with chronic Level of evidence: 5, pancreatitis having problems with addiction (tobacco, alcohol, other drugs). consensus Prophylactic total pancreatectomy as a measure of cancer prevention in high- Level of evidence: 2, risk groups ought not to be performed in patients with chronic pancreatitis. strong consensus and laboratory follow-up examinations from age 40 years onward or 20 years strong consensus after symptom onset in the pancreatic center. Diagnosis and management of chronic pancreatitis in pediatric patients Diagnosis and management of chronic pancreatitis in children and adoles- Level of evidence: 4, cents ought to be provided under the direction of a pediatric gastroenterol- consensus ogist in collaboration with an experienced pediatric surgeon or visceral sur- geon, pediatric radiologist, and, if required, interventional endoscopist. In children and adolescents, diffuse and persistent upper abdominal pain that Level of evidence: 3, responds poorly to standard analgesic therapy ought to raise differential diag- strong consensus nostic considerations about the presence of pancreatitis. The causes of pancreatitis in children and adolescents should be fully investi- Level of evidence: 2, gated. strong consensus Complications of acute and chronic pancreatitis in children and adolescents Level of evidence: 2, are the same as in adults. Children and adolescents rarely develop exocrine
