MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


2, gated. strong consensus Complications of acute and chronic pancreatitis in children and adolescents Level of evidence: 2, are the same as in adults. Children and adolescents rarely develop exocrine strong consensus or endocrine pancreatic insufficiency before they reach adulthood. In children and adolescents with suspected pancreatitis, serum lipase levels Level of evidence: 2, should be measured. strong consensus Abdominal ultrasound should be used as the initial imaging modality in Level of evidence: 2, children and adolescents with suspected pancreatitis. strong consensus In children and adolescents with an acute attack of pancreatitis, abdominal Level of evidence: 3, computed tomography should only be obtained in case of progressive clinical strong consensus deterioration. In children, MRCP ought to be used as the imaging modality of choice to Level of evidence: 3, visualize the bile ducts and the pancreatic duct. grade of recommendation A, strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 Endoscopic ultrasound may be performed in pediatric patients. Level of evidence: 4, strong consensus Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material XIV MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus Pursuant to the German Genetic Diagnostics Act (GenDG), genetic testing Level of evidence: 5, may only be performed after documented informed consent discussion and strong consensus obtaining a written consent.Clinical testing of minor relatives with no signs of the disease (predictive genetic testing) is prohibited pursuant to the Genetic Diagnostics Act. Patients with a positive family history of pancreatitis and patients with idiopathic chronic pancreatitis or two or more attacks of idio- pathic acute pancreatitis should undergo genetic testing. In pediatric patients, the differential diagnostic work-up of chronic pancreatitis Level of evidence: 1, should include sweat testing to rule out cystic fibrosis. strong consensus, adopted from the 2012 guideline, reviewed in 2021 Intravenous fluid replacement and analgesia should be initiated as a support- Level of evidence: 2, ive measure. strong consensus The indications for ERCP in pancreatitis are the same for children, adoles- Level of evidence: 3, cents and adults. strong consensus Children and adolescents with chronic pancreatitis may be treated surgically Level of evidence: 3, if conservative and/or endoscopic treatment over several months has been strong consensus unsuccessful, e.g. persistent pain and/or progressive organ destruction. formed using the same criteria as in adults. strong consensus Studies on specific pain management in pediatric patients with chronic pan- Level of evidence: 5, creatitis are not available.
