MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


destruction. formed using the same criteria as in adults. strong consensus Studies on specific pain management in pediatric patients with chronic pan- Level of evidence: 5, creatitis are not available. As in adults, pain management ought to be pro- strong consensus vided in accordance with the WHO Pain Ladder. In children with an acute mild episode of pancreatitis, early initiation of oral- Level of evidence: 3, enteral nutrition (< 48 h) ought to be pursued. strong consensus In children and adolescents with an acute severe episode of pancreatitis, initi- Level of evidence: 4, ation of enteral nutrition < 72 h may be pursued. strong consensus The general use of antibiotics in children and adolescents with an acute epi- Level of evidence: 5, sode of pancreatitis cannot be recommended. strong consensus Children and adolescents with chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic exocrine Level of evidence: 2, insufficiency should receive pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy. strong consensus In children and adolescents with chronic pancreatitis, it should be followed up Level of evidence: 4, on a routine basis whether weight and length development are in line with the strong consensus respective percentiles. In children and adolescents with chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic exocrine Level of evidence: 3, insufficiency, serum levels of the fat-soluble vitamins A, E and D as well as strong consensus INR ought to checked annually. In children and adolescents with chronic pancreatitis and evidence of pancre- Level of evidence: 4, atic exocrine insufficiency, annual checks of serum zinc and selenium levels strong consensus may be recommended. Autoimmune pancreatitis Autoimmune pancreatitis (AiP) is defined as “a distinct form of pancreatitis strong consensus characterized by imaging morphology and histological features of the pan- creas, associated with extra-pancreatic manifestations, which are part of an IgG4-associated disease or other diseases, and by the fact that the signs and symptoms of AiP almost always resolve with steroid medication”. Histologically, two types of AiP are distinguished based on histological and Level of evidence: 2, type 2, idiopathic duct-centric pancreatitis [IDCP]).In some patient, however, it is no possible to conclusively class them as one or the other of these two forms. Classification should be based on the International Consensus Diag- nostic Criteria (ICDC). Autoimmune pancreatitis should be diagnosed according to the International Level of evidence: 2, Consensus Diagnostic Criteria (ICDC) which reflect five major criteria strong consensus (imaging, serology, histology, other organ involvement, response to systemic steroid medication). Imaging morphology criteria
