MEDICINE
KEYWORDS: consensus, evidence, pancreatitis, level, level evidence, strong, strong consensus, ought, patients, pancreatic, chronic, acute, chronic pancreatitis, acute pancreatitis, performed


International Level of evidence: 2, Consensus Diagnostic Criteria (ICDC) which reflect five major criteria strong consensus (imaging, serology, histology, other organ involvement, response to systemic steroid medication). Imaging morphology criteria for AiP include focal enlargement of a section of Level of evidence: 2, the pancreas or diffuse enlargement of pancreatic parenchyma with typical c onsensus changes in contrast distribution and changes of the pancreatic duct (e.g., soli- tary or multiple strictures without upstream duct dilation). Other characteristic parenchymal and ductal changes in imaging morphology may be present in patients with AiP. MRI with contrast and/or endoscopic ultrasound ought to be primarily used to detect these changes. XV Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary material MEDICINE Recommendation Level of evidence, consensus The definite diagnosis of type 1 AiP can be established based on the pres- Level of evidence: 2, ence of clearly defined clinical features or a combination of these features strong consensus together with response to steroid medication. If type 2 AiP is suspected, histol ogical confirmation ought to be obtained. All symptomatic AiP patients ought to be treated with corticosteroids. Given Level of evidence: 2, strong the high recurrence rate, patients with type 1 AiP ought to receive low-dose consensus corticosteroid maintenance therapy. In case of treatment failure or contraindications to corticosteroid treatment, Level of evidence: 3, patients with type 1 AiP may be treated with anti-CD20 antibodies. strong consensus The response to immunosuppressive treatment should be evaluated based Level of evidence: 3, on imaging and laboratory findings four to six weeks after start of treatment. strong consensus In case of non-response to treatment, pancreatic cancer as a differential diag- nosis should be ruled out again. A surgical intervention should be performed in patients with AiP, if is not pos - Level of evidence: 1 sible to rule out pancreatic cancer or biliary cancer. A surgical intervention should also be performed in patients with AiP, if Level of evidence: 3, complications of chronic pancreatitis are present which did not respond to strong consensus immunosuppressive therapy and require surgical treatment. Long-term follow-up care for patients with AIP ought to be provided in keeping Consensus with the recommendation for chronic pancreatitis. In patients with type 1 AiP, screening for extrapancreatic manifestations of Level of evidence: 3, IgG4-associated disease ought to be performed. consensus Deutsches Ärzteblatt International | Dtsch Arztebl Int 2022; 119: 495–501 | Supplementary
