v47
KEYWORDS: etal, sti, test, diagnostics, disease, diagnosis, trachomatis, women, syphilis, sti diagnostics, studies, hpv, antibodies, articles, antibody


charcoal particles led to a test that could be read related organisms in a new microtitre indirect macroscopically. With appropriate controls, the rapid plasma immunofluoresence test. Am J Ophthalmol reagin(RPR)hadthecharacteristicsofaPOCtestthatcouldbe 1970;70:367–75. available to provide a diagnosis and treatment simply and at Wang SP, Grayston JT. Human serology in Chlamydia lowcost.Itrevolutionisedsyphilisscreeningtechnology. trachomatis infection with microimmunofluorescence test. J Infect Dis 1974;130:388–97. 3. Amsel R, Totten PA, Spiegel CA, et al. Non-specific SchachterandothersidentifiedChlamydiatrachomatisasamajor vaginitis: diagnostic criteria and microbial and cause of STIs during the 1970s.10 Cultural diagnosis was epidemiologic associations. Am J Med 1983;74:14–22. challenging and insensitive largely due to stringent transport Non-specific vaginitis is a common problem for women and requirements.Themicroimmunofluorescence (MIF)technique their caregivers. Previous studies had identified the transmis- developedbyWangandGraystonwasthebasisformanyofthe sibilityofpathogens,thepredominanceofGardnerellavaginalis, early epidemiologic studies that contributed to our under- andthephysicalandbiochemicalcharacteristicsofvaginitis.In standing of the relationships not only between chlamydia theirarticle,AmselandtheSeattlegroupsurveytheliterature species but also between ocular and urogenital strains of to develop diagnostic criteria. These criteria were further C trachomatis. This is also the technique that enabled later refined in a subsequent article by Spiegel6 and by Nugent.7 development of the fluorescence assay, based on monoclonal However, the initial article provided the foundation for a antibodies,forearlierrecognitionofCtrachomatisincellculture scorecard that Nugent and colleagues standardised and and dramatically increased sensitivity over earlier iodine and popularisedwiththeirarticle.Thiscontinuestobeourprimary Giemsa staining techniques. In 1989, MIF was one of the strategy for diagnosing what is now referred to as bacterial techniques used to define C pneumoniae as a new species of vaginosis. Only with a well developed case definition was it chlamydiae. possible to proceed with delineation of prevalence, incidence, and possible risk behaviours that are responsible for this 7. Ashley RL, Militoni J, Lee FK, et al. Comparison of incrediblycommonandstillenigmaticcondition. Western blot (immunoblot) and glycoprotein G-specific immunodot enzyme assay for detecting antibodies to 4. Tam MR, Stamm WE, Handsfield HH, et al. Culture herpessimplexvirustypes1and2inhumansera.JClin independent diagnosis of Chlamydia trachomatis using Microbiol 1988;26:662–7. monoclonal antibodies. N Engl J Med 1984;310:1146– Lee FK, Coleman M, Pereira L, et al. Detection of herpes 50. simplex virus type 2 - specific antibody with Thisarticlesimplifiedthediagnosisofchlamydialinfectionand glycoprotein G. J Clin Microbiol 1985;22:641–4. enabled rapid diagnosis within hours using fluorescence- During the 1970s it was recognised that the herpes simplex labelled monoclonal antibodies that detected extracellular virus (HSV) could be typed into two species which differed elementary bodies in specimens with a reasonable sensitivity epidemiologically. However, HSV-2, the predominant cause of ascomparedtocultureandenableddiagnosistobecomemore genitalherpes,couldnotbereadilydifferentiated onthebasis widelyavailable.Thesefluorescentmonoclonalantibodieswere of serologic
