v47
KEYWORDS: etal, sti, test, diagnostics, disease, diagnosis, trachomatis, women, syphilis, sti diagnostics, studies, hpv, antibodies, articles, antibody


(HSV) could be typed into two species which differed elementary bodies in specimens with a reasonable sensitivity epidemiologically. However, HSV-2, the predominant cause of ascomparedtocultureandenableddiagnosistobecomemore genitalherpes,couldnotbereadilydifferentiated onthebasis widelyavailable.Thesefluorescentmonoclonalantibodieswere of serologic response. Ashley et al demonstrated that by using also used for culture confirmation, an important step in neutralisationassaysandWesternblot,uniqueantibodiescould improvingthesensitivityandspecificityofcultureconfirmation beidentifiedtodistinguishHSV-1fromHSV-2.Theidentifica- compared to iodine staining. Enzyme immunoassays (EIA) tion of antibody to HSV-2 glycoprotein G and the subsequent replaced this technology later in the decade and were in turn study correlating HSV glycoprotein antibody with a specific largely supplanted by nucleic acid hybridisation (NAH) and Western Blot response initiated an era in which the glycopro- amplification (NAA) technologies in the 1990s. Multiple tein has become the primary technical strategy to diagnose groups, including commercial enterprises, have enabled a HSV-2infection.Severalcommercialtechnologiesarecurrently variety of methods to be available for routine laboratory use. availabletoidentifyantibodytoglycoproteinsG1andG2.This NAA technologies have become the gold standard with has led to epidemiologic studies that have substantiated the excellentsensitivityandspecificity. relationship of HSV-2 to HIV transmission and have also permitted large scale epidemiologic prevalence studies to be carried. 5. Hunter EF, Deacon WE, Meyer PE. An improved FTA test for syphilis: The absorption procedure (FTA-ABS). Complextechnologieswereinitiallyusedtoidentifytreponemal like particle enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay antibody in patients with positive syphilis screening tests. The detects serum antibodies in a majority of women Treponema pallidum immobilisation (TPI) test was the standard infected with human papillomavirus type-16. J Natl test but it was only available at a few sites and required live Cancer Inst 1994;86:494–8. treponemesandagreatdealoftechnologicalinfrastructure.8The Nonnenmacher B, Kruger Kjaer S, Svare EI, et al. fluorescenttreponemalantibody(FTA)testhadbeendescribed Seroreactivity to HPV16 virus-like particles as a marker byinvestigatorsattheCommunicableDiseaseCenterbutitwas for cervical cancer risk in high-risk populations. Int J too non-specific despite several modifications.8 In this paper, Cancer 1996;68:704–9. Hunter et al described a modification that absorbed the serum Although a viral aetiology for warts had been suggested in withasonicateofReitertreponeme(Tphagedenis)whichremoved 1907, and the sexual route was proven in 1954, the failure to non-specificantibodyandledtoaspecifictestwhichwasshown cultivate human papillomavirus (HPV) limited the develop- tobesensitivefortreponemalantibody.Ofinterestinthispaper, ment of technologies to diagnose HPV infection. Nucleic acid sera from the Tuskegee study of the natural history of syphilis technologies, including in situ hybridisation, enabled epide- wereusedtovalidatetheresults.Overall,thismodificationofthe miologic studies and substantiated the association with FTAtestforspecifictreponemalantibodyremainedthestandard neoplasia. However, this was largely a research technology, as untilthe1980swhenmorerapidtestswereidentified.9 noted in the subsequent article by Bauer et al. Kirnbauer et al www.stijournal.com v50 Ronald,Kuypers, Lukehart,etal expressedrecombinantHPV-16capsidproteinsinaBaculovirus and numerous other studies have provided evidence that expression system
