v47
KEYWORDS: etal, sti, test, diagnostics, disease, diagnosis, trachomatis, women, syphilis, sti diagnostics, studies, hpv, antibodies, articles, antibody


technology, as untilthe1980swhenmorerapidtestswereidentified.9 noted in the subsequent article by Bauer et al. Kirnbauer et al www.stijournal.com v50 Ronald,Kuypers, Lukehart,etal expressedrecombinantHPV-16capsidproteinsinaBaculovirus and numerous other studies have provided evidence that expression system and demonstrated that type restricted HPV verifiespublichealthinitiativestoscreenandtreatindividuals, serology could be determined. Anticapsid seropositivity corre- which can be widely exploited for disease control. Multiple lated with type specific HPV infection. This technology was studies carried out by other authors could also be cited. rapidly exploited over the next decade to determine the However,theSeattlegrouphasbeeneffectiveinutilisingthese epidemiology of HPV-16, HPV-18, and other oncogenic HPV technologies regionally and demonstrating that this approach isolates. From our perspective, the key serologic piece to this could reduce the prevalence of C trachomatis as well as the storywaselicitedbyKirnbauerandhiscolleaguesinthework complicationsofthisinsidiousinfection. theypursuedtocloneandmanufacturequantitiesofthecapsid proteinsforantigenicuseoftheserologictest. THREE ALTERNATE CHOICES BY ALLAN RONALD AND InoursecondHPVmanuscript,Nonnenmacheretaldeveloped THE ARGUMENT FOR THEIR ‘‘INCLUSION’’ AS anenzyme-linkedimmunosorbentassay(ELISA)basedonHPV- IMPORTANT MILESTONES IN STI DIAGNOSIS 16viralparticlesand explainedthepreviouslack ofcorrelation OstergaardL,MoolerJK,AndersenB,etal.Diagnosisof betweenHPVDNAprevalenceandcervicalcancerriskinhigh- urogenital Chlamydia trachomatis infection in women risk populations. In earlier reports, seropositivity was strongly based on mailed samples obtained at home: multi- associated with detection of HPV-16 DNA in low-risk popula- practice comparative study. BMJ 1996;313:1186–9. tions. In the present study conducted on a high-risk sexually The introduction of nucleic acid technologies for C trachomatis transmitteddiseaseclinicpopulationofwomeninGreenlandand andNgonorrhoeaehaveenabledashifttooccurinstrategiesfor Denmark, antibody to HPV-16 was found above a previously obtaining specimens. During the 1990s it was recognised that definedcut-offin56%ofGreenlandwomenand41%ofDanish urine was a readily accessible, more user friendly source for women.WhereasthedetectionofHPV-16DNAfromthefemale detection of these pathogens, but sensitivity was reduced. genital tract decreased with age, seroreactivity to HPV-16 However, the strategy of self-obtained vaginal specimens and increased with age and in the Danish women correlated with mailingthemtothelaboratorymadeitpossibleforwomento the number of life-time sex partners. Progress has occurred be diagnosed specifically with minimal interference and very rapidlysinceandwithinthenext1–2yearsavaccineforHPVwill littleadditionalcostforthelaboratoryinvestigation.Nolonger be available which will almost certainly prevent most cervical are an appointment, a journey, usually a prolonged wait, and cancer.ThiswasonlypossiblewiththeinitialrecognitionofHPV thecostoftheexaminationinherenttoobtaininganadequate asanSTIinthefemalegenitaltract,itsoncogenicrelationshipto specimen. In this study, Ostergaard et al carried out a test for cervical cancer and other epithelial squamous cell cancers, and Ctrachomatisin222womeninAarhusCounty,Denmark.They ultimatelytheabilitytounderstanditsepidemiology. compared the diagnostic efficacy of samples obtained by women at home with a vaginal irrigation technology and 9. Bauer HM, Ting Y, Greet CE, et al. Genital human mailedtothelaboratorytothoseobtainedbyadoctorusinga papillomavirus infection in female university students cervical swab in the office. The results of the two collection as determined by a PCR-based method. JAMA methods were equivalent. Simple collection methods with 1991;265:471–6. widespread introduction and with the support
