v47
KEYWORDS: etal, sti, test, diagnostics, disease, diagnosis, trachomatis, women, syphilis, sti diagnostics, studies, hpv, antibodies, articles, antibody


in the office. The results of the two collection as determined by a PCR-based method. JAMA methods were equivalent. Simple collection methods with 1991;265:471–6. widespread introduction and with the support of women’s HPVDNAwasinitiallyidentifiedingenitalspecimensthrough groups and those atrisk ofSTIs could become the foundation immunocytochemistry and DNA hybridisation. In this study, for regional, national, and ultimately global control of Bauer et al describe a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based CtrachomatisandperhapsNgonorrhoeae. method to identify the HPV region which encodes the viral capsid protein. Specimens were taken from the female genital Romanowski B, Sutherland R, Fick GH, et al. Serologic tractandanalysedwithPCRamplification.Among467female response to treatment of infectious syphilis. Ann Intern previous studies, particularly those carried out by the Romanowskiandcolleaguesreviewedtheserologicoutcomesof UniversityofWashingtongroup,hadidentifiedtheepidemiol- 1090patientswithprimary,secondary,andearlylatentsyphilis ogy of HPV and its association with cervical neoplasm, the seen in Alberta, Canada. In follow-up they noted that initial study simplified the technology and demonstrated that their primaryandsecondaryinfectionsweremorelikelytoserorevert PCR technique had increased sensitivity, correlated with the andthattheRPRtestseroreversalratesdependeduponthepre- sexualhistory,anddescribedandidentifiedHPVtypes.11 treatmenttitre,withhighertitreslesslikelytoserorevert.RPR seroreversion was unusual with early latent disease. In this 10. Scholes D, Stergachis A, Heidrich FE, et al. study, 72% of patients with primary syphilis and 56% of Prevention of pelvic inflammatory disease by screening patients with secondary syphilis reverted to non-reactive by for cervical chlamydial infection. N Engl J Med 36months. Of interest, the treponemal antibody tests (fluor- 1996;334:1362–6. escent treponemal antibody absorption test (FTA-ABS) and Ultimately diagnostic technologies are only useful if they microhaemagglutinationassayforTpallidumantibodies(MHA- contribute to disease control and prevention, as well as TP))alsoseroreverted(24%non-reactiveat36monthsforthe contributing to a clinical diagnosis for the individual patient. FTA-ABSand13%fortheMHA-TP).Onlypatientswithinitial InthisstudytheSeattlegroupidentified2607eligible women episodes of syphilis became seronegative. Antibody titres who were randomised to C trachomatis screening or ‘‘usual declinemoreslowlyinearlylatentsyphilisandalltreponemal care’’.Thepatientswhowerescreenedandfoundtobepositive antibodytestsremainedpositiveat36monthsforpatientswith for C trachomatis were offered treatment. A strategy of adiagnosisoflatentsyphilis. identifying women at risk, testing for chlamydia, and treating thosewhowereinfected,reducedbyover50%thesubsequent Orle, KA, Gates CA, Martin DH, et al. Simultaneous PCR occurrenceofpelvicinflammatorydiseaseinthispopulationof detectionofHaemophilusducreyi,Treponemapallidum, at-risk women. This important study emphasises the need to and herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 from genital screenforCtrachomatisinfectioninwomenwithidentifiedrisk ulcers. J Clin Microbiol 1996;34:49–54. behaviours to reduce the unnecessary complication of pelvic Multiplex PCR (M-PCR) is the simultaneous co-amplification inflammatory disease and its potential complications. These and identification of different DNA targets in the same www.stijournal.com STI diagnostics excellence v51 amplification tube. The amplifications proceed independently developing countries will be heralded as the significant ofeachother,buttheprimersforeachofthepathogensneedto diagnosticadvancesofthisdecade. share characteristics such as size and melting temperatures, and the assay requires a detection step that can identify each
