Case Report
KEYWORDS: ureolytica, oligella, blood, case, infections, recovered, urine, infect, day, ampicillin, bacteremia, reported, tract, literature, infant


Bloodstream infection with Oligella ureolytica in a newborn infant: a case report and review of the literature Tulin Demir1, Nuran Celenk2 Abstract Oligella species are small, Gram-negative, nonsaccharolytic aerobic rods or coccobacilli that are catalase and oxidase-positive, mostly isolated from the urinary tract and rarely from wounds, bloodstream infections, septic arthritis, or peritonitis.In this article, we report a case of O.ureolytica-related bloodstream infection in a newborn infant and we review the literature for previously reported cases of Oligella infections. Key words: Bacteremia; Oligella spp; CDC group IVe J Infect Dev Ctries 2014; 8(6):793-795. doi: (Received 27 December 2012 – Accepted 11 May 2013) distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. Case Report levels of RBC (3.38×106/ml), hematocrite (35.8%) and A 24 hour-old female, full term infant, (2,800 g high levels of MCV, MCH, MCHC and PDW were weight, spontaneous vaginal delivery) was admitted to observed. Serum electrolite levels were normal. Pediatrics Intensive Care Unit ward of Ahi Evran Minimal decrease in serum albumin and glucose and with the symptoms of poor feeding, jaundice and fever mg/dL. Chest radiography and urinalysis were with presumptive diagnosis of sepsis. Respiratory, unremarkable and the urine culture was sterile. cardiovascular and abdominal examination were Following two days of incubation of blood culture, unremarkable but weakness in newborn reflexes and small, smooth, nonhemolytic colonies of 1 mm in icterus were observed. Fetal membrane was intact up diameter on blood agar were detected in two blood to two hours before labor and no premature membrane culture samples. Microscopy revealed small Gram- rupture or any signs of chorioamnionitis such as negative coccobacilli. The organism was oxidase- maternal fever or uterine tenderness were detected. positive, catalase-positive and nonfermentative. Amniotic fluid was clear. Fetal heartbeat monitoring Positive test results were obtained for nitrate with intermittent auscultation was performed during reduction, urea hydrolysis and motility and it was labor and constant variation in the heart rate was identified as Oligella ureolytica by VITEK-2 detected indicating a sign of well-being of the baby. Compact automated system (bioMerieux, Marcy There was no need for resuscitation and the baby was l’Etoile, France). breastfed after delivery. Histopathological The infant was given an empiric therapy including examination of the fetal membranes were not ampicillin (100mg/kg/day) and netilmicin performed for the diagnosis of intrauterin infections (5mg/kg/day) on the day of admission. As there is no and chorioamnionitis. Maternal medical history was
