Case Report
KEYWORDS: ureolytica, oligella, blood, case, infections, recovered, urine, infect, day, ampicillin, bacteremia, reported, tract, literature, infant


membranes were not ampicillin (100mg/kg/day) and netilmicin performed for the diagnosis of intrauterin infections (5mg/kg/day) on the day of admission. As there is no and chorioamnionitis. Maternal medical history was standardized antimicrobial susceptibility testing for unremarkable. Oligella spp. recommended by the Clinical and count, urine culture and two sets of blood cultures of Gram-negative bacteria other than were sent to the microbiological laboratory. Platelet, Enterobacteriaceae on CLSI were used for white blood cell count (20.4% neutrophiles and 68.3% interpretation. The organism was susceptible to lymphocytes) and hemoglobin level were normal. Low amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, gentamicin, cefuroxime, Demir et al. – Bacteremia due to Oligella ureolytica J Infect Dev Ctries 2014; 8(6):793-795. ceftriaxone, ceftazidime, ciprofloxacin, carbapenems related bacteremia. To our knowledge, this is the first and had intermediate resistance to ampicillin and was reported case of O.ureolytica-related bacteremia in a resistant to co-trimoxazole (SXT). The infant was newborn infant. In the previous reports, most of the given a ten-day course of netilmicin (5mg/kg/day) patients were adults with underlying diseases in after the susceptibility test results. Additionally, contrast to our case. Urinary tract obstruction is a phototherapy was performed for the management of predisposing factor for bacteremia . In our case, hyperbilirubinemia. The patient’s condition improved urine culture was sterile and therefore, there was no gradually after four days of treatment and was clinical or laboratory evidence to suggest any discharged after full recovery. abnormality of the urinary tract thus the mechanism of Oligella species are small, Gram-negative bacilli infection remains unclear. able to grow on blood agar in two to four days. In contrast to O. urethralis strains which are Incubation in the presence of 5% CO will usually susceptible to several classes of antibiotics including enhances growth. The urease reaction and motility are penicillin, O. ureolytica strains are generally resistant the distinctive features for species differentiation . to ampicillin, chloramphenicol, erythromycin, O. ureolytica, is an urease-positive, motile bacterium penicillin G, tetracycline and co-trimoxazole, but capable to reduce nitrate to nitrite in contrast to O. susceptible to aminoglycosides and cephalosporins [2- urethralis [2-4]. 4]. O. ureolytica strains highly resistant to penicillins, Oligella spp. infection has rarely been reported in cephalosporins, carbapenems, ciprofloxacin and co- the literature. This may be due to misidentification of trimoxazole were also reported [3-5,8], in contrast to the organism or uncertainty of its pathogenicity. Due the studies displaying susceptibility to co-trimoxazole to the positive urease reaction, O.ureolytica can
