Case Report
KEYWORDS: ureolytica, oligella, blood, case, infections, recovered, urine, infect, day, ampicillin, bacteremia, reported, tract, literature, infant


of trimoxazole were also reported [3-5,8], in contrast to the organism or uncertainty of its pathogenicity. Due the studies displaying susceptibility to co-trimoxazole to the positive urease reaction, O.ureolytica can be . In this study, our strain had intermediate confused with B.bronchiseptica or Achromobacter spp resistance to ampicillin and was resistant to co- . A search of the literature published since 1978 on trimoxazole. Although in vitro resistance to ampicillin PubMed revealed nine case reports. Table 1 shows the was detected, good response and recovery was O.ureolytica is more frequently recovered from course treatment. Although in vitro susceptibility urethral and respiratory tract specimens as a testing may yield conflicting results, studies have commensal organism , it is commonly isolated shown that co-trimoxazole, imipenem and from urine of patients with indwelling urinary aminoglycosides have good in vivo activity against catheters . O.urethralis is occasionally isolated these organisms, indicating that Oligella spp related from urinary tract infections, septic artritis, peritonitis infections appear to respond quickly to antimicrobials and it is also a commensal of the genitourinary tract. . In our patient, following therapy with Additionally, isolations from ear, blood and wounds ampicillin and netilmicin, blood culture became have been reported [6-8]. Both species have been sterile, suggesting eradication of O. ureolytica. In this reported to cause urosepsis . study strain identification was performed by an In this article, we report a case of O.ureolytica automated identification system and biochemical tests. Year Reference Age (years) Isolate Source Underlying conditions Outcome Uterine adenocarcinoma, obstructive 1978 7 5 O. ureolytica Blood, urine Recovered uropathy 1992 4 83 O. uretralis Knee fluid Rectal adenoca, septic artritis Recovered Metastatic colorectal ca, obstructive 1993 9 75 O. uretralis Blood, urine Recovered uropathy Responded, died 1993 6 40 O. ureolytica Blood AIDS, sacral ulcer, fungemia secondary to fungemia 1996 2 45 O. ureolytica Lymph node Lymphoma Recovered Bladder operation, histerektomi, 2001 10 70 O. uretralis Urine Recovered chronic pyelonephritis 2001 1 18 mo O. ureolytica Blood Pneumoniae Recovered Present Newborn O. ureolytica Blood Sepsis Recovered study Demir et al. – Bacteremia due to Oligella ureolytica J Infect Dev Ctries 2014; 8(6):793-795. It is clear that the major limitation of this study was 6. Baqi M, Mazzulli T (1996) Oligella infections: Case report the lack of molecular based confirmation of the strain. and review of the literature. Can J Infect Dis 7: 377-379. 7. Mesnard R, Sire JM, Donnio PY,
