Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


ABSTRACT Adrenal insufficiency (AI) is an uncommon but potentially life-threatening condition related to impaired secretion of cortisol by the adrenal gland. In general, this condition can be divided into primary (adrenal failure) and central (hypothalamic/pituitary) causes. In this chapter, we categorize the causes of adrenal insufficiency and systematically review the etiologies and associations to guide the laboratory evaluation and treatment, specifically as it pertains to the pediatric patient. Early diagnosis and treatment can prevent the development of adrenal crisis – prompt recognition can be lifesaving. Understanding the manifestation of unique types of adrenal insufficiency can guide management with glucocorticoid +/- mineralocorticoids and guide further investigation for associated disorders. We discuss the treatment of adrenal insufficiency, reviewing both the acute (crisis) and chronic management. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Adrenal insufficiency (AI) refers to impaired cortisol secretion by the adrenal gland. If untreated, AI can be life-threatening, especially when it is compounded by a physiological stress, such as an acute illness, severe trauma, or surgical procedure ( 1 , 2 ). Cortisol secretion is regulated by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) ( Figure 1 ) ( 1 , 2 ). In brief, Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) secreted by the paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus stimulates adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) production and release by the pituitary, leading to cortisol synthesis and secretion by the adrenal gland. Cortisol then negatively feeds back to inhibit both CRH and ACTH release. Clinical manifestations of this feedback mechanism occur frequently as illustrated in clinical practice after chronic treatment with exogenous glucocorticoids, which may suppress CRH and ACTH secretion and consequently result in adrenal atrophy and AI. In addition, a high day (light) and low night (dark) diurnal cycle of ACTH release is entrained, permitting optimal times for assessing the status of spontaneous cortisol secretion (early morning) or its optimal suppression (around midnight). The fetal adrenal gland markedly differs in structure and function from that of the adult ( 3 , 4 ). During both early and late gestation, the adrenal cortex consists primarily of the fetal zone, which produces predominantly androgens that are critical for the sexual maturation of fetal external genitalia. Early cortisol production is indirect via placental conversion of progesterone synthesized in the fetal adrenal to cortisol, whereas, toward the end of the 2 nd trimester, direct cortisol synthesis occurs in the definitive zone
