Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


indirect via placental conversion of progesterone synthesized in the fetal adrenal to cortisol, whereas, toward the end of the 2 nd trimester, direct cortisol synthesis occurs in the definitive zone of the fetal adrenal ( 5 ). Aldosterone synthesis remains low until the end of gestation at which time CYP11B2 expression begins. After birth, the fetal zone undergoes atrophy via apoptosis, while the zona glomerulosa and zona fasciculata differentiate from the definitive zone to secrete aldosterone and cortisol respectively, whereas the zona reticularis starts its development postnatally and does not complete development until just before adrenarche ( 3 , 4 ).This process is fully described in the Endotext.org chapter, “Adrenal Cortex: Embryonic Development, Anatomy, Histology and Physiology” ( 6 ). The distinctive function of fetal zone and the transition from fetal to adult adrenal function have clinical applications in the very preterm infants who may have transient signs of relative AI after birth ( 7 - 9 ). Furthermore, babies who have a defect in steroidogenesis can present with both adrenal insufficiency and genital atypia ( 10 ). The most classic example in this category involves 46,XX babies with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency who present with virilization and adrenal crisis ( 11 ). In this chapter, we discuss CAH in the context of AI. Additional information on CAH can be found in the Endotext.org chapter: Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia ( 12 ) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK278953/ . Mineralocorticoid deficiency will be reviewed in the context of primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI), but in-depth coverage of mineralocorticoid deficiency will be included elsewhere as a separate chapter. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY & CLASSIFICATION Adrenal insufficiency is classified into primary and central origin ( Figure 1 ) ( 10 , 13 , 14 ). Primary AI Primary AI (PAI) refers to the destruction or dysfunction of the adrenal cortex, often resulting in combined cortisol and aldosterone deficiencies due to injury to both the zona fasciculata and zona glomerulosa ( 15 , 16 ). In cases of destruction, clinical presentation occurs when most of the cortex, >90%, is destroyed. Initial stages may be indolent and may often be followed by an acute stressor leading to clinical presentation and adrenal crisis. In contrast, in cases of dysfunction (i.e. steroidogenesis defects like 21-hydroxylase deficiency causing classical CAH), crisis can occur in the first few weeks of life if the steroidogenic defect is not detected promptly and in the absence of
