Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


defects like 21-hydroxylase deficiency causing classical CAH), crisis can occur in the first few weeks of life if the steroidogenic defect is not detected promptly and in the absence of an acute stressor ( 17 ). In all cases, decreased glucocorticoid production and decreased negative feedback to the hypothalamus and pituitary result in increased production of ACTH and its pro-hormone pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) ( 1 ). The increase in melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) is responsible for the well-recognized hyperpigmentation present in PAI and often the clinical clue to evolving AI. Central AI Central AI involves disorders of the hypothalamic-pituitary region that impair CRH and/or ACTH secretion, and therefore, cortisol production. Aldosterone secretion in the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal cortex is primarily regulated by the renin-angiotensin system rather than ACTH and, thus, remains intact in central AI. Despite the intact mineralocorticoid secretion, hyponatremia may occur due to absence of the glucocorticoid regulated tonic suppression of ADH resulting in volume expansion, a clinical picture similar to the syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) ( 18 ). SYMPTOMS Acquired AI can have an insidious onset. Children may present with slowly progressive or nonspecific symptoms, such as anorexia, weight loss, morning nausea or vomiting, and fatigue, which may lead to diagnostic challenges and delayed diagnosis. One cross-sectional, retrospective adult study reported that only 15% of cases were correctly diagnosed at the initial presentation and nearly half had experienced symptoms for more than 1 year before establishing their diagnosis ( 19 ). Congenital AI usually presents early in life with signs of adrenal crisis or hypoglycemic seizures. Newborns with central AI may be completely asymptomatic until physical stress elicits an adrenal crisis. In the pediatric population particularly, specific signs and symptoms should alert the clinician to the possibility of AI. In central AI, central nervous system (CNS) or midline defects may be present. Furthermore, in the neonate, cholestasis may occur due to immature bile acid synthesis and transport ( 20 , 21 ). Virilization and non-palpable gonads associated with the hyperandrogenemia in 46,XX individuals point to classical CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency at birth ( 22 ). 46,XY babies with CAH, however, would not present with ambiguity and, thus, may escape medical attention to present with salt-wasting crises between the first and second weeks of life. The inclusion of 17-hydroxyprogesterone measurement in newborn screening programs has enabled detection of these babies prior to the onset of
