Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


salt-wasting crises between the first and second weeks of life. The inclusion of 17-hydroxyprogesterone measurement in newborn screening programs has enabled detection of these babies prior to the onset of crisis. While the majority of individuals with classical CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency are identified by newborn screening, false negative results and therefore missed diagnosis have been reported ( 23 - 26 ). Moreover, other certain rare enzyme deficiencies are not included in the newborn screen. Thus, a keen clinical index of suspicion remains crucial in cases of CAH who have escaped the newborn screening as experts continue to consider methods to enhance the testing accuracy ( 27 , 28 ). Other associations are discussed in detail under the heading of etiology and are reviewed in Table 1 . In acquired PAI, patients may experience salt craving (i.e., a sign of mineralocorticoid deficiency) and orthostasis and may be noted on examination to have bronze hyperpigmentation, especially in non-sun-exposed areas with prominence in the palmar creases, oral mucosa, skin folds, and areola. In the case of adrenal crisis, glucocorticoid deficiency may progress to vomiting, muscle weakness, lethargy, hypoglycemia, and ultimately hemodynamic instability. Mineralocorticoid deficiency causes hyponatremia and hyperkalemia and, thus, symptoms may include headache, dizziness, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and ultimately severe dehydration and hypotension. Early detection is critical given the high morbidity and mortality associated with adrenal crisis ( 29 ). ETIOLOGY Both primary and central AI can arise neonatally due to congenital causes or later in childhood, adolescence and beyond due to acquired causes. In contrast to adults, genetic defects are more likely to be prevalent in infants and children. In recent years, knowledge and understanding of the genetic causes of AI have significantly increased and include every step of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responsible for cortisol and aldosterone synthesis and action ( Figure 1 and Table 1 ). Figure 1. Genetic defects in various steps along the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis can result in either central or primary adrenal insufficiency depending on the location in the pathway. This figure displays the HPA axis and the location operative in the genetic defect, guiding the assessment of central or primary insufficiency. Genetic causes of central AI can include several genes involved in the development of the pituitary gland (e.g., PROP1, POU1F1 ( formerly PIT1 ) , GLI2, HESX1, LHX3, LHX4, SOX3, SOX2, OTX2 ), and result in multiple combined pituitary deficiencies. Central AI
