Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


development of the pituitary gland (e.g., PROP1, POU1F1 ( formerly PIT1 ) , GLI2, HESX1, LHX3, LHX4, SOX3, SOX2, OTX2 ), and result in multiple combined pituitary deficiencies. Central AI can result from an isolated ACTH deficiency caused by defects in the synthesis of pro-opiomelanocortin ( POMC ) or its cleavage. Defects of the melanocortin 2 receptor (MC2R) or its accessory protein MRAP result in ACTH-resistance (a.k.a. as Familial Glucocorticoid Deficiency). There are multiple genetic causes leading to primary AI (PAI). They range from genes that are involved in the development of the adrenal gland resulting in adrenal hypoplasia, defects in cortisol synthesis itself, or metabolic and autoimmune diseases (e.g. adrenoleukodystrophy, sphingolipidosis or autoimmune polyglandular syndrome), that result in destruction of the adrenal gland over time. Defects in steroidogenesis involve multiple genes along the pathway of cortisol synthesis and are the most frequent cause of PAI. Finally, PAI can be part of certain syndromes, such as Triple A Syndrome (AAAS) or disorders associated with oxidative stress. Causes of Primary AI CONGENITAL CAUSES Disorders of Steroidogenesis Disorders of steroidogenesis include 1) defects in the cholesterol biochemistry including Smith-Lemli-Opitz ( DHCR7) ( 30 ), 2) early steroidogenesis defects such as congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia ( STAR) and CYP11A1 mutations ( 31 , 32 ), and 3) defects within the adrenal gland causing CAH, the most common being CYP21A2 (21-hydroxylase deficiency) and rare forms including CYP11B1 (11β-hydroxylase deficiency) , 3HSD2 (3β-hydroxylase deficiency) , CYP17A1 (17α-hydroxylase deficiency) , and POR (Cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency) ( 12 ) (See Fig 2 for depiction of adrenal steroidogenesis, Table 1 for further information on clinical presentations and associations and refer to the Endotext chapter on CAH for further details.) Figure 2. The classical and backdoor pathways of adrenal steroidogenesis: The classical pathway is highlighted in blue, and the backdoor pathway is highlighted in orange. In the classical pathway, five enzymatic steps are necessary for cortisol production. In the first step of adrenal steroidogenesis, cholesterol enters mitochondria via a carrier protein called steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR). ACTH stimulates cholesterol cleavage, the first and rate limiting step of adrenal steroidogenesis. The five enzymes required for cortisol production are cholesterol side chain cleavage enzyme (SCC), 17α-hydroxylase, 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3βHSD2), 21-hydroxylase, and 11β-hydroxylase. The backdoor pathway is an alternative pathway producing dihydrotestosterone. The enzymes include 5α-reductase 1, aldo keto reductases, retinol dehydrogenase RoDH, 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases, 17α-hydroxylase. (Figure from CAH Endotext
