Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


21-hydroxylase, and 11β-hydroxylase. The backdoor pathway is an alternative pathway producing dihydrotestosterone. The enzymes include 5α-reductase 1, aldo keto reductases, retinol dehydrogenase RoDH, 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases, 17α-hydroxylase. (Figure from CAH Endotext Chapter). Adrenal Hypoplasia Underdevelopment of the adrenal glands may occur as an X-linked genetic disorder ( DAX1/NROB1 – X-linked AHC) and results in both glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid deficiency ( 33 , 34 ). X-linked AHC is associated with hypogonadism and in some cases, muscular dystrophy. Adrenal hypoplasia can be seen as part of syndromic undergrowth disorders including IMAGe and MIRAGE ( 35 ), or in association with gonadal dysgenesis and sex reversal such as NR5A1 ( formerly SF1) ( 34 ) and SeRKA L syndrome (WNT4) ( 36 ) (see Table 1 ) . ACTH Resistance-Like Conditions ACTH-resistance, known as Familial Glucocorticoid Deficiency (FGD), is another childhood cause of PAI. It is caused by defects of the melanocortin 2 receptor (MC2R) or its accessory protein at the adrenal gland rendering it unresponsive to ACTH action ( Figure 1 and Table 1 ). Given the specific operative nature of ACTH resistance, concerns for mineralocorticoid insufficiency are rare ( 37 ). In FGD type 1, the MC2R receptor is dysfunctional. Patients may present with hyperpigmentation, jaundice, hypoglycemia, and early adrenal crisis or later in life with hyperpigmentation and fatigue ( 38 ). In FGD type 2, the MC2R receptor is absent. These cases are due to deficiency of the MRAP (melanocortin 2 receptor accessory protein) which assists in trafficking of the MC2R receptor to the cell surface. Other disorders associated with ACTH resistance include those associated with oxidative stress (most commonly defects in nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase [ NNT] but also described in thioredoxin reductase 2 [ TNXRD2] ), Triple A Syndrome (Allgrove syndrome due to disruption of the Aladin protein [AAAS] ACTH resistance/Addison disease, alacrima (absence or deficiency of ocular tears), and achalasia of the esophagus) (37,38) , and disruption of mini-chromosome maintenance 4 ( MCM4) ( 37 - 39 ). Metabolic Conditions Metabolic conditions associated with PAI include mitochondrial diseases – large gene deletions such as Kearns-Sayre and Pearson as well as single gene disorders ( MK-TK, MRPS7, QRSL1, NDUFAF5, GFER ), lysosomal storage disorder (Wolman), sphingolipidosis (SGPL1 deficiency), and adrenoleukodystrophy (40-42) . Descriptions and associations can be found in Table 1 . In adrenoleukodystrophy, neurologic features can prompt identification. However, neurologic manifestations are absent in adrenal only forms of the
