Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


(40-42) . Descriptions and associations can be found in Table 1 . In adrenoleukodystrophy, neurologic features can prompt identification. However, neurologic manifestations are absent in adrenal only forms of the disease. Adrenoleukodystrophy is included in the newborn screening programs in some states in the US. However, screening is not yet universal in the US and is rare in other countries. Consequently, a high index of suspicion should be maintained for all boys with unknown cause of PAI, and very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA) should be measured. Prompt diagnosis aids in therapeutic decision- making including hematopoietic stem cell transplant as well as more recent approval for gene therapy ( 43 , 44 ). Zellweger Spectrum disorders consist of a group of peroxisomal related gene disorders that result in neurological dysfunction, hepatic dysfunction, renal cysts and PAI. Screening for PAI is recommended after the first year of life ( 45 ). AQUIRED CAUSES Autoimmune Conditions Addison’s disease (autoimmune adrenal insufficiency) is the most common cause of AI in adolescents and adults with a median age of presentation at 11 years ( 15 ). While less common in young children, it can be seen in association with other endocrine dysfunctions (poly-endocrinopathy). The best described monogenic cause is related to a defect in the AIRE gene and results in Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndrome type 1 (APS1). Presenting features often include mucocutaneous candidiasis and hypocalcemia related to hypoparathyroidism. In contrast, APS2 is typically of polygenic inheritance and is associated with autoimmune thyroiditis and diabetes mellitus with abnormalities in the DQ and DR genes. Adrenal insufficiency related to APS2 has a later age of onset of about 35 years of age, although pediatric cases do occur ( 15 ). Other Causes of Primary AI Other acquired causes include hemorrhagic, infectious, and infiltrative conditions. Adrenal hemorrhage should only result in adrenal insufficiency if both glands are affected extensively, as 10% of remaining function is sufficient to retain adrenal activity ( 46 ). Unilateral hemorrhage should not cause adrenal insufficiency as the single remaining gland is able to compensate. While adrenal hemorrhage occurs fairly often in traumatic birth delivery, few require treatment and of those that do, most resolve within 3-9 months ( 47 ). Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome is bilateral adrenal hemorrhage of infectious etiology and described with N. meningitides, streptococcus pneumoniae, and other bacterial infections ( 48 ). This adrenal insufficiency may also be reversible upon treatment of
