Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


bilateral adrenal hemorrhage of infectious etiology and described with N. meningitides, streptococcus pneumoniae, and other bacterial infections ( 48 ). This adrenal insufficiency may also be reversible upon treatment of the primary infection supplemented with cortisol as needed. In contrast, tuberculous adrenal disease results in necrosis of the gland and is often irreversible unless discovered very early in the course of tuberculosis ( 49 ). Several drugs increase cortisol clearance and may precipitate adrenal crisis or require a dose increase in patients with AI on daily glucocorticoid replacement. These include CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampin, mitotane, carbamazepine, and St. John’s wort. Initiation of growth hormone and T4 replacement may also increase cortisol metabolism ( 50 ). Medications used for treating excessive glucocorticoid secretion (Cushing’s disease) that directly block steroidogenesis (ketoconazole, etomidate, metyrapone, osilodrostat) and the glucocorticoid receptor (mifepristone) can induce adrenal insufficiency ( 51 ). Central AI CONGENITAL CAUSES Combined Pituitary Hormone Deficiency Many genetic causes of hypopituitarism (consisting of loss of ACTH with other anterior pituitary hormones such as GH, TSH, LH/FSH) have been elucidated including PROP1, POU1F1 ( formerly PIT1 ) , GH1, GLI2, HESX1, LHX3, LHX4, SOX3, SOX2, OTX2 and others ( 20 , 21 , 52 ). These can result in hypopituitarism on its own (non-syndromic) or in a constellation of other associated phenotypic features (syndromic), commonly involving midline defects. Despite a genetic etiology, some conditions including PROP1 and GH1 may manifest with ACTH insufficiency later in life. As such, close monitoring of the HPA axis in the setting of other pituitary deficiency is crucial ( 53 ). Isolated ACTH Deficiency Isolated ACTH deficiency can occur due to disruption of TBX-19 (formerly known as TPIT , required for pro-opiomelanocortin protein transcription), due to defects in pro-opiomelanocortin ( POMC ) or pro-hormone convertase-1 ( PC-1 / PCSK1 ) ( 20 ). The classic findings of red hair and pale skin and hyperphagic obesity in POMC mutations are related to the inability to produce pigmentation and regulate hunger in the absence of α melanocyte stimulating hormones. Another syndromic description involving ACTH deficiency includes DAVID (deficit in anterior pituitary function and variable immunodeficiency) syndrome which occurs in 2/3 of NFKB2 mutations. AQUIRED CAUSES Brain Lesion or Injury, Infiltrative Disease Traumatic brain injury, brain tumor, infiltrative (histiocytosis, iron overload), and inflammatory (hypophysitis) disorders can result in pituitary dysfunction and impaired ACTH secretion; additional pituitary hormone deficiencies can also occur frequently
