Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


Traumatic brain injury, brain tumor, infiltrative (histiocytosis, iron overload), and inflammatory (hypophysitis) disorders can result in pituitary dysfunction and impaired ACTH secretion; additional pituitary hormone deficiencies can also occur frequently with these conditions. Diagnosis of AI in these settings should therefore prompt a complete pituitary workup, including evaluation for central hypothyroidism, growth hormone deficiency, and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (if in a pubertal child). Pituitary surgery may result in central AI post-operatively and during recovery. In contrast, in cases of brain radiation or developmental differences of the pituitary gland, AI may occur over time, and longitudinal assessment is suggested for affected individuals. Traumatic brain injury has been associated with central adrenal insufficiency in up to 14% of individuals with moderate to severe TBI and 6% of athletes with history of concussion with data coming from the adult population ( 54 , 55 ). Data in children have shown central AI in up to 47% of individuals at 3 months and recovery by 12 months after injury ( 56 ). Transient (Hypothalamic Suppression) Glucocorticoid induced - Oral glucocorticoid administration above physiologic doses (i.e. Hydrocortisone 8-10mg/m 2 /day or equivalent) is associated with HPA axis suppression and subsequent adrenal atrophy after 2-4 weeks of daily use ( 57 , 58 ). Although there is significant interindividual variability, risk factors for AI include dose, frequency, and potency of the used glucocorticoid ( 59 ). Adrenal suppression can also be seen with inhaled or intranasal glucocorticoids, especially if their use is combined with intermittent use of oral formulations. Screening for AI has been suggested for children taking high doses of inhaled glucocorticoids (>500µg/day of Fluticasone or equivalent) for more than 6 months ( 60 ). Particular attention should be paid to the combination of glucocorticoid therapy and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as grapefruit juice, as the latter can reduce glucocorticoid clearance, and therefore, augment their efficacy. Adrenal function recovers once glucocorticoids are discontinued. Time to recovery is variable from 1 to many months, and can be affected by length of exposure, dose, frequency, and glucocorticoid potency ( 61 - 63 ). As such, recovery should be monitored, and stress dosing instructions provided until adrenal recovery. Through a similar mechanism, successful treatment of Cushing’s syndrome and Cushing’s disease by resection of the pituitary or adrenal lesion results in a temporary adrenal insufficiency, necessitating replacement until recovery is demonstrated. Other medications - Various medications have been shown to suppress
