Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


by resection of the pituitary or adrenal lesion results in a temporary adrenal insufficiency, necessitating replacement until recovery is demonstrated. Other medications - Various medications have been shown to suppress the HPA axis. This is more frequently seen with long term opiate use (Opiate induced adrenal insufficiency - OIAI) due to tonic inhibition of the HPA axis – in which studies have shown 9 to 29% of individuals with adrenal suppression, potentially with high risk associated with younger age ( 64 ). There have also been cases of adrenal suppression with short term opiate use ( 65 ). Other medications responsible for adrenal suppression include somatostatin analogues, antipsychotics, and antidepressants. Critical illness- such as sepsis or severe trauma, elicit a “fight-or-flight” or “stress” response that involves multiple physiological processes, including release of catecholamines and activation of the HPA axis. HPA axis activation results in a rapid rise in circulating ACTH and cortisol. The concept of “relative” AI during critical illness was introduced in the early 2000’s based on adult data of patients with septic shock who demonstrated an inadequate cortisol response to endocrine testing. The term “relative AI” was later replaced by “critical illness related corticosteroid insufficiency (CIRCI)” as these patients typically have “inappropriately” low ACTH and cortisol levels in response to stress. Changes in adrenal function during critical illness are not fully understood ( 66 ). However, current research indicates that there is an initial brief HPA axis activation in response to a critical illness followed by a series of adaptive events that include a reduction in cortisol-binding globulin (CBG)/albumin leading to an increase in free cortisol, prolonged cortisol half-life due to suppressed metabolism in liver and kidneys, and tissue-specific changes in glucocorticoid receptor action ( 66 ). These peripheral adjustments increase systemic cortisol availability, and with prolonged illness, may result in central HPA suppression. From the clinical standpoint, endocrine testing (i.e. measurement of serum cortisol at baseline or after ACTH stimulation) can be challenging due to reductions in CBG, with one study noting this reduction lasting 7-8 days in adult patients ( 67 ). In terms of treatment, randomized controlled trials of stress dose hydrocortisone in critically ill adults showed inconsistent results on long term mortality ( 68 ). Hydrocortisone administration was found to have a positive effect on blood pressure, which can be related the pharmacologic effects of high dose glucocorticoids rather than treatment of CIRCI (
