Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


). Hydrocortisone administration was found to have a positive effect on blood pressure, which can be related the pharmacologic effects of high dose glucocorticoids rather than treatment of CIRCI ( 66 ). Pediatric data on CIRCI are limited. Current pediatric guidelines do not recommend hydrocortisone treatment for children with sepsis who are hemodynamically stable after fluid resuscitation but can be considered in those with fluid-refractory, inotrope-resistant shock ( 69 ). Relative AI of the newborn - Very preterm infants may experience refractory hypotension that is unresponsive to fluid resuscitation and inotropic support but responds to treatment with glucocorticoids ( 7 - 9 ). No other apparent cause, like sepsis, is identified in these cases and electrolyte abnormalities indicative of a mineralocorticoid defect can be observed. It has been suggested that these infants have an attenuated cortical response to stress or relative AI. The term transient adrenocortical insufficiency of prematurity (TAP) has also been used as this phenomenon resolves within the first couple weeks of life ( 8 ). Immaturity of the HPA axis both at the level of hypothalamus, pituitary, and the adrenal gland itself have been implicated as the underlying pathophysiology. A late-onset GC -responsive circulatory collapse that occurs within the first 2 weeks of life and responds to therapy with glucocorticoids has also been described ( 70 ). Formal diagnosis is challenging given studies failing to show association of low cortisol concentrations with adverse outcomes ( 71 ) while others identifying an association between high cortisol values with both morbidity (intracranial hemorrhage and cerebral palsy) and mortality ( 72 , 73 ). Neither baseline nor stimulated values of cortisol have shown diagnostic benefit. Cortisol secretion markedly increases during parturition to assist with lung maturation and transition to life after birth. There are data to suggest that very preterm infants who develop bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) often have relative AI after birth. To address this concern, early low-dose hydrocortisone therapy as prophylaxis for AI was found to be beneficial for survival without BPD, although the treatment was associated with increased risk for spontaneous gastrointestinal perforation ( 74 ). TABLE 1. CAUSES OF ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY IN CHILDREN View in own window Congenital - Central Combined pituitary deficiencies Non syndromic (PROP1, POU1F1) Variable presentations associated with single or multiple pituitary defects including ACTH deficiency. May include hypoglycemia and/or microphallus Syndromic Associated syndromes include optic cell hypoplasia / septo-optic dysplasia, microphthalmia (HESX1, SOX2,
