Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


Variable presentations associated with single or multiple pituitary defects including ACTH deficiency. May include hypoglycemia and/or microphallus Syndromic Associated syndromes include optic cell hypoplasia / septo-optic dysplasia, microphthalmia (HESX1, SOX2, OTX2) and various CNS malformations (i.e., holoprosencephaly) with midline defects. Syndromes with hypothalamic dysfunction (e.g., ROHHAD syndrome, Prader- Willi syndrome) can rarely be associated with ACTH deficiency. Isolated ACTH deficiency Defects in TBX19, POMC or PCSK1 Can present in the newborn with hypoglycemic seizures and jaundice. Associated features ( POMC) : red hair, hyperphagia/obesity. MC4R agonists can be leveraged to treat obesity. Associated features ( PCSK1) : malabsorptive diarrhea, obesity, and hypogonadism Acquired - Central Brain lesion or injury Examples: Tumor, hemorrhage, irradiation Usually associated with additional pituitary defects Immune checkpoint inhibitors can be associated with hyper-autoimmunity and cause hypophysitis and hypopituitarism. Infiltrative disease Examples: iron overload (due to transfusions in thalassemias, hemochromatosis), sarcoidosis, Langerhans cell histiocytosis Usually associated with additional pituitary defects. Symptoms specific to the underlying causative disorder. Transient (hypothalamic suppression) Glucocorticoid therapy The most frequent cause of adrenal insufficiency. Adrenal function recovers with discontinuation of daily glucocorticoids. Medications Opiates, somatostatin analogues, antipsychotics and antidepressants Treatment of Cushing Permanent: hypophysectomy Transient: post operative for unilateral adrenalectomy, or pituitary lesion Critical illness -related corticosteroid insufficiency (CIRCI) Characterized by a series of adaptions of the HPA axis in response to critical illness, which are still not clearly understood. The beneficial effects of glucocorticoids in sepsis are likely related their anti-inflammatory and blood -pressure support effects rather than treatment of adrenal insufficiency. Congenital - primary ACTH resistance Familial Glucocorticoid Deficiency Type 1 (MC2R) : Presents first weeks of life with severe hypoglycemia, prolonged jaundice Type 2 (MRAP) : Presents first few months of life with AI Syndromic Triple A (Allgrove) syndrome (AAAS) : Associated with alacrimand achalasia of the esophagus presenting in childhood or 2 nd decade of life Disorders associated with oxidative stress (NNT, TNXRD2) Congenital Adrenal Hypoplasia X- linked Adrenal Hypoplasia (DAX-1/ NR0B1) Can present with salt losing early on or may present later in childhood Additional features: hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Associated with a larger Xp21 contiguous gene deletion that can result in Duchene Muscular Dystrophy and Glycerol Kinase deficiency Growth hormone insufficiency in a small subset Syndromic IMAGe syndrome ( gain of function CDKN1C, POLE1) : Additional features: IUGR, metaphyseal dysplasia, GU anomalies MIRAGE syndrome ( gain of function SAMD9) : Additional features: Myelodysplasia, infections, restriction of growth, GU
