Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


of autoimmune polyglandular syndrome (APS) type I (AIRE) or type II (polygenic) APS 1: other associations include: hypoparathyroidism, chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, ectodermal dystrophy, autoimmune hepatitis, hypogonadism, pernicious anemia. APS2: other associations include autoimmune thyroiditis, diabetes mellitus Adrenal damage Hemorrhage, Infectious, Infiltration (Tuberculosis, HIV, CMV) Infectious: Tuberculosis, HIV, CMV Infiltration: neuroblastoma Transient Relative adrenal insufficiency of the newborn Described primarily in preterm sick infants within 2 weeks of life with signs of refractory hypotension in the absence of apparent cause and associated with electrolyte abnormalities (hyponatremia, hyperkalemia). May be related to immature adrenals in the very preterm infants. Treatment of Cushing Permanent: Bilateral adrenalectomy Medication induced: ketoconazole, metyrapone, osilodrostat, etomidate, mifepristone Medication induced CYP3A4 inducers: rifampin, mitotane, carbamazepine and St. John’s wort Mimickers of Adrenal Insufficiency In the introduction to this chapter, we discussed the risk of delayed diagnosis of AI given the potential overlapping symptoms of glucocorticoid deficiency with other illnesses. In the same vein, other critical illnesses including sepsis and cardiovascular disease may be mistaken for adrenal crisis, especially in the setting of hydrocortisone responsiveness. In this case, hydrocortisone’s inotropic properties may lead to symptomatic improvement but may not be diagnostic of underlying AI. Further, salt wasting adrenal crisis has findings overlapping with other salt-losing crises in infants including those due to kidney inflammation, infection, and obstruction – presenting with vomiting, hyponatremia, and hyperkalemia due to aldosterone resistance (a transient pseudo hypoaldosteronism) ( 75 , 76 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY Primary Adrenal Insufficiency (PAI) PAI is a rare disease. Its incidence in children is not well established. An epidemiologic study from Finland observed a cumulative incidence of 10/100,000 at 15 years and 13/100,000 at 20 years ( 15 ). Studies from Europe that include both children and adults describe a similar prevalence ( 71 ). In adults, the most common cause of PAI is autoimmune disease. In contrast, genetic defects are more prevalent in children. CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency occurs in about 1/15,000 births and is the most frequent cause of PAI in children accounting for 50 to 86% of cases ( 15 , 77 ). As such, the age-related incidence of PAI in childhood is higher in the first year of life and decreases afterwards ( 15 ). Autoimmune disease is reported as the second most common cause, either as an isolated disease or as a manifestation of a poly endocrinopathy (i.e. APS 1 or 2) ( 77 ,
