Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


disease is reported as the second most common cause, either as an isolated disease or as a manifestation of a poly endocrinopathy (i.e. APS 1 or 2) ( 77 , 78 ). Whereas most CAH cases are identified in the newborn period, autoimmune disease typically presents after the first couple years of life. X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (XALD) is another cause of PAI during childhood with a prevalence in newborn males of about 1/20,000, approximately 80% of whom will develop PAI ( 79 ). In recent years, the number of recognized genetic causes of PAI have significantly increased( Figure 1 ) ( 13 ). Genetic testing for PAI has a high diagnosis rate as illustrated by recent studies of children with PAI of unknown etiology, where genetic analysis established the diagnosis in most of the patients ( 80 , 81 ). The most frequent genes involved in these series were MC2R, NR0B/DAX and CYP11A1. Central AI Central AI is also quite rare with most epidemiologic data available in adult populations. The reported occurrence is about 14-28/100,000 individuals, with greater than 50% occurring because of a pituitary tumor ( 82 - 84 ). A Finnish epidemiologic study reporting single center data over a period of 30 years is one of the only studies of incidence in pediatrics. The study looked specifically at combined pituitary hormone deficiencies, without clearly distinguishing AI, and observed similar proportions in pediatric in comparison with previous adult studies, with 61% of hypopituitarism being acquired and the other 39% congenital ( 85 ). Craniopharyngiomas comprise the bulk of pediatric pituitary tumors, and similarly account for one quarter of acquired hypopituitarism, with gliomas following at just over 10% ( 85 ). Up to 30% of patients with craniopharyngiomas will present with AI due to the lesion itself prior to surgical manipulation while 77-90% will have post-surgical AI ( 86 , 87 ). Glucocorticoid induced AI is the most common cause of AI in both children and adults. Glucocorticoids are extensively used in clinical practice for treatment of various disorders, such as asthma, autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, and cancer ( 88 ). In US, approximately 1% of the adult population is on oral glucocorticoids and rates increase in the elderly population ( 89 ), while similar rates in children are not well established. In adults, AI has been observed around 48% with oral administration and 7.8% with inhalation ( 57 ). Rates
