Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


89 ), while similar rates in children are not well established. In adults, AI has been observed around 48% with oral administration and 7.8% with inhalation ( 57 ). Rates of AI in children on inhaled glucocorticoids have been reported around 10%, but results may vary depending on the study ( 90 , 91 ). Adrenal crisis and related deaths have been described in children treated with inhaled glucocorticoids ( 92 , 93 ). DIAGNOSTIC APPROACH TO A PATIENT WITH SUSPECTED AI Our diagnostic and differential approach to a child with suspected AI is summarized in Figure 2 . Clinical signs and symptoms of AI are non-specific and require a high index of suspicion; when present, the suspected diagnosis needs to be confirmed with appropriate laboratory evaluation. Evaluation typically starts with measurement of serum ACTH, cortisol, and electrolytes. In the case of an emergency, such as suspected adrenal crisis, laboratory evaluation can only be interpreted if obtained prior to administration of glucocorticoids as therapy can influence test results. The goals of the initial laboratory assessment are to confirm the diagnosis of AI, and then, understand if AI is primary or central. Most cases of PAI, but not all, involve combined glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid deficiencies. In the case of PAI, therefore, mineralocorticoid function must be assessed with measurements of serum electrolytes, aldosterone, and renin ( Figure 2 ). Details on laboratory assessment and additional dynamic testing are included in the LABORATORY EVALUATION section of this chapter. The next step is to pinpoint the specific etiology so that management can be individualized. Clinical presentation and symptoms can suggest an underlying etiology and guide additional laboratory assessment. For example, salt wasting adrenal crisis in a newborn should prompt measurement of serum 17-hydroxyprogesterone concentrations to rule out CAH. Vitiligo in a child with PAI suggests an autoimmune process, and the underlying etiology can be confirmed with measurement of 21-hydroxylase antibody titers. AI in a boy with neurological manifestations points to adrenoleukodystrophy and calls for measurements of VLCFA. In many instances, however, the specific etiology cannot be identified. In such cases, genetic testing may be very helpful. Figure 3. A proposed approach in the diagnosis and differential of AI in children GC: glucocorticoid. MR: mineralocorticoid. Na: sodium. K: potassium. LABORATORY EVALUATION Assessment of Glucocorticoid Function BASELINE ASSESSMENT OF CORTISOL AND ACTH CONCENTRATIONS The diagnosis of PAI can be made by measurement of morning ACTH and
