Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


Na: sodium. K: potassium. LABORATORY EVALUATION Assessment of Glucocorticoid Function BASELINE ASSESSMENT OF CORTISOL AND ACTH CONCENTRATIONS The diagnosis of PAI can be made by measurement of morning ACTH and cortisol concentrations and by demonstrating an inappropriate high ACTH concentration for the cortisol value ( Figure 2 ). Typically, a cortisol value of <5mcg/dL (140nmol/L) associated with an ACTH level > x2 above upper normal range indicates PAI ( 16 ). A low morning cortisol value associated with an inappropriately normal ACTH concentration may indicate central AI ( 94 ). It is suggested that an 8am cortisol values of <3 mcg/dL (82.8 nmol/ L) in the absence of an elevated ACTH concentration is indicative of central AI ( 94 ). Establishing the diagnosis of central AI can be challenging because ACTH concentrations are frequently in the low normal/normal range. The presence of additional pituitary defects increases the risk for AI and needs to be considered when evaluating a child with possible central AI. Assessment of adrenal function, such as in individuals at risk for glucocorticoid-induced AI, can also start with a measurement of morning cortisol ( 58 , 95 ). Adult studies suggest that an 8am cortisol value of >12mcg/dL can predict normal adrenal function ( 96 , 97 ). It is recognized, however, that various guideline and practice recommendations point to slightly different cut-offs ( 58 , 94 ). Further, the suggested cut-offs need to be interpreted by taking into account the cortisol assay that is used. Of note, the listed cut-offs also do not apply for patients on oral contraceptives and/or estrogen replacement as these medications increase CBG concentrations, and therefore, cortisol values ( 98 ). Morning cortisol values may be unreliable in the newborn as the diurnal pattern of cortisol secretion may take few months to become established ( 99 ). Baseline cortisol values have been extensively studied in the sick preterm infant and were not found to be predictive of AI or adverse outcomes ( 71 - 73 ). Furthermore, high cortisol values during first week of life were associated with intracranial hemorrhage and cerebral palsy later in life ( 73 ). DYNAMIC OR STIMULATION TESTS Stimulations tests are typically performed when the diagnosis of AI needs confirmation. The ACTH (a.k.a. corticotropin or Cosyntropin or Synacthen) stimulation test is the primary test performed in children. Historically, the insulin tolerance test (ITT) has been considered the gold
