Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


needs confirmation. The ACTH (a.k.a. corticotropin or Cosyntropin or Synacthen) stimulation test is the primary test performed in children. Historically, the insulin tolerance test (ITT) has been considered the gold standard test for the diagnosis of AI, but its use has been abandoned as it is associated with severe hypoglycemia ( 1 , 16 , 95 ). The overnight metyrapone test, an alternative to ITT, is also not routinely performed in children because of potential significant adverse effects ( 16 , 95 ). The CRH (corticotropin releasing hormone) stimulation test has been used in the diagnosis of central AI but there is no evidence that it has greater diagnostic accuracy than ACTH testing in pediatrics and CRH is no longer commercially available ( 100 ). The ACTH test involves the intramuscular or intravenous administration of cosyntropin, a synthetic fragment of ACTH with full biologic activity, along with cortisol measurements at baseline and after cosyntropin administration. Although differences in practice protocols have been described, a common protocol entails cosyntropin doses of 15mcg/kg in infants, 125mcg in children <2years and 250mcg in children older than 2 years ( 16 ). Cortisol concentrations are usually measured at 30- and 60-minutes post stimulation, although again, practice variations have been described with the use of the “short” ACTH test that includes cortisol measurement at baseline and only at 30 min after stimulation( 101 ). The standard dose (250mcg) ACTH test has been validated against the ITT; it has good diagnostic accuracy for PAI but only moderate for central AI ( 102 , 103 ). The low dose ACTH test that involves administration of 1mcg of cosyntropin was developed as an alternative that may offer greater sensitivity in the diagnosis of central AI. Like adult data, however, meta-analysis of pediatric studies indicates that both standard- and low- dose ACTH tests have similar diagnostic accuracy with high specificity but only moderate sensitivity for the diagnosis of central AI ( 102 ). These findings suggest that the clinical picture needs to be considered when interpreting ACTH test results. Furthermore, the low dose ACTH test bears technical challenges related to potentially erroneously low administered dose because it requires dilution and cosyntropin is known to adhere to plastic tubing used in intravenous tests ( 103 ). Regardless of the standard- or low- dose ACTH test used, the diagnosis of AI is based on peak cortisol concentrations of 18mcg/dL at either
