Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


in intravenous tests ( 103 ). Regardless of the standard- or low- dose ACTH test used, the diagnosis of AI is based on peak cortisol concentrations of 18mcg/dL at either 30 or 60 minutes after cosyntropin ( 16 ). The cortisol cut-off of 18mcg/dL was established using cortisol assays of previous methodology that are no longer in use, and therefore, is not applicable in today’s clinical practice. Cortisol measured by liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) is currently considered the gold standard, yet cortisol immunoassays remain widely used in most facilities. Although there no official guidelines or consensus statements at the moment, adult data support revised cortisol cut-offs at 30 min post cosyntropin of around 15mcg/dL using LC-MS/MS and second-generation immunoassays such as Elescys II (Roche Diagnostics) and Access (Beckman Coulter) ( 101 , 104 , 105 ) . Collectively, the adult data call for revised cortisol cut-offs specific to the assay that is used to avoid overdiagnosis of AI. Limited pediatric data show similar findings as in adults ( 106 ). Literature deriving primarily from critical care medicine uses a cortisol rise of >9mcg/dL during ACTH stimulation to define AI. This criterion is greatly influenced by the baseline cortisol value and has been abandoned ( 66 , 95 ). The ACTH test may miss the diagnosis of AI in newborns with a central defect in ACTH secretion (e.g., septo-optic dysplasia or congenital panhypopituitarism) if it is performed within 1-2 weeks after birth. These babies have normal fetal adrenal function driven by placental CRH stimulation, and therefore, normal response to ACTH stimulation shortly after birth( 107 ). However, they develop adrenal atrophy and insufficiency within the first 2 months of life. Similarly, the ACTH test can be falsely negative if the testing is done during the early stages of AI due to exogenous glucocorticoids or a pituitary/CNS insult and before the atrophy of the adrenals has occurred ( 95 ). A high index of suspicion and repeat testing may be needed in such cases. The ACTH test results can be significantly influenced by CBG concentrations. Estrogens are well known to increase CBG concentrations, and estrogen containing oral contraceptives can increase the cortisol cut-off after ACTH stimulation by approximately 10mcg/dL ( 98 , 108 ). Conversely, disease states such as acute illness, cirrhosis, and nephrotic syndrome lead to decreased CBG concentrations and potential overdiagnosis of AI ( 98 ). Rare
