Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


( 98 , 108 ). Conversely, disease states such as acute illness, cirrhosis, and nephrotic syndrome lead to decreased CBG concentrations and potential overdiagnosis of AI ( 98 ). Rare genetic syndromes, such as congenital CBG deficiency or familial glucocorticoid resistance, can also affect baseline as well as stimulated cortisol measurements. The standard-dose ACTH test is also performed when a disorder of steroid biosynthesis, such as CAH, is suspected. In addition to cortisol, adrenal steroids are measured at baseline and 60-minute post stimulation. Specific nomograms based on 17-hydroxyprogesterone values have been developed for the diagnosis of CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency ( 12 ). Assessment of Mineralocorticoid Function Electrolytes abnormalities that include hyponatremia in combination with hyperkalemia and acidosis should raise suspicion for a mineralocorticoid defect. The simultaneous measurement of plasma aldosterone and renin is important for the diagnosis of a mineralocorticoid defect. An inappropriate low aldosterone concentration in the presence elevated renin levels indicates mineralocorticoid deficiency. In such instances, the treating physician needs to carefully assess the glucocorticoid function of the child to determine whether the child has combined deficiencies, such as seen in CAH, or an isolated mineralocorticoid defect, such as seen with aldosterone synthase deficiency. Conversely, markedly elevated aldosterone and renin levels in a child with hyponatremia and hyperkalemia suggest mineralocorticoid resistance, such as pseudo-hypoaldosteronism( 109 ). Aldosterone and renin concentrations are higher in the newborn and can be affected by prematurity ( 110 - 112 ). Newborns at term have a state of partial aldosterone resistance and hence concurrent high aldosterone values in their blood, that resolve in the first few months of life, whereas babies with severe prematurity have an initial defect in aldosterone secretion followed later by the appearance of physiologic aldosterone resistance ( 110 - 112 ). These physiologic changes need to be considered when assessing mineralocorticoid function in the first few months of life. Lastly, some children with PAI, like those with adrenoleukodystrophy, develop glucocorticoid deficiency initially, while they retain mineralocorticoid activity ( 79 ); ongoing monitoring with measurements of serum electrolytes, plasma aldosterone and renin concentrations are required to determine the need for starting mineralocorticoid replacement. Supporting/Miscellaneous Testing Once AI is documented, additional testing based on patients’ history and symptomatology can pinpoint the specific cause. For example, presence of genital atypia suggests a disorder of steroidogenesis, and elevated concentrations of specific steroid precursors can determine the enzymatic defect (e.g. 17-hydroxyprogesterone in
