Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


pinpoint the specific cause. For example, presence of genital atypia suggests a disorder of steroidogenesis, and elevated concentrations of specific steroid precursors can determine the enzymatic defect (e.g. 17-hydroxyprogesterone in 21-hydroxylase deficiency or 11-deoxycorticosterone in 11β-hydroxylase deficiency) ( 12 ). Elevated VLCFA can establish the diagnosis of adrenal leukodystrophy in a boy with AI and neurological manifestations. Positive antibody titers for 21-hydroxylase indicates autoimmune Addison disease. Nonetheless, the underlying cause can be frequently tentative. To this end, genetic testing has become increasingly important. Testing can be tailored according to clinical suspicion and varies from single candidate gene analysis to targeted “panels” or whole exome sequencing (WES). In general, genetic testing for AI has a high diagnostic success rate and can be very helpful in complex cases where diagnosis remains otherwise uncertain ( 80 ). TREATMENT Hormone Replacement The goals of daily replacement therapy are to avoid symptoms of adrenal insufficiency while securing optimal growth and weight gain, and appropriate puberal progression. GLUCOCORTICOID REPLACEMENT The glucocorticoid of choice for children is hydrocortisone, typically given three time daily ( 16 ). The physiologic daily cortisol secretion is approximately 5-8mg/m 2 /day ( 113 ). In practice, typical replacement doses are 8-10mg/m 2 /day, except in CAH which frequently requires supraphysiologic doses to suppress adrenal androgen secretion. The dose distribution during the day usually mimics the diurnal pattern of cortisol secretion with the largest dose given upon awakening, the second dose around noon and the last dose at early evening to avoid overnight hypercortisolemia, which may lead to sleep disturbances, stunted growth, or insulin resistance. A reverse circadian hydrocortisone administration has been used in CAH to suppress the overnight rise in ACTH. This regimen has been criticized as non-physiologic. Individuals with central AI can also be treated with a twice a day regimen ( 94 ), with the first larger dose given upon awakening and the second smaller dose in late afternoon. It is our practice to place children with central AI on a twice a day glucocorticoid replacement regimen, acknowledging that this procedure is based on adult recommendations, while pertinent pediatric data or guidelines are lacking. Specific to children with glucocorticoid-induced AI, hydrocortisone replacement twice a day with the second dose administered in late afternoon can be beneficial and facilitate recovery of the adrenal axis as it avoids nighttime hypercortisolemia and suppression of ACTH secretion. Challenges with daily hydrocortisone replacement include its
