Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


in late afternoon can be beneficial and facilitate recovery of the adrenal axis as it avoids nighttime hypercortisolemia and suppression of ACTH secretion. Challenges with daily hydrocortisone replacement include its short half-life of 60-90min and significant variability in clearance among patients, which result in alternating periods of hypo- and hyper-cortisolemia while on treatment. A modified release hydrocortisone (Plenadren by Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland) was designed as a more physiologic and convenient alternative ( 114 ). Plenadren provides hydrocortisone released in two phases (i.e., an initial phase of immediate release followed by a phase of extended release) and is given as a once-a day dose upon awakening. It is available in Europe but not in the USA. An additional concern with hydrocortisone administration in young children involves difficulties in dose titration as hydrocortisone is not available in tablets less than 5 mg. To overcome this barrier, hydrocortisone microgranules that provide doses as low as 0.5 mg have been introduced in the market ( 115 ). Hydrocortisone microgranules have 1:1 bio equivalency with the standard immediate release hydrocortisone. Finally, it should be kept in mind that certain drugs, like carbamazepine or phenytoin, can induce CYP3A4 in the liver and increase hepatic hydrocortisone clearance requiring higher hydrocortisone replacement doses ( 11 ). Prednisone administered orally once to twice daily can be used as an alternative to hydrocortisone when growth is complete. Use of dexamethasone is not recommended because of difficulties with dose titration and high risk for cushingoid side effects ( 94 ). MINERALOCORTICOID REPLACEMENT Mineralocorticoid replacement with fludrocortisone at doses 0.05-0.2 mg daily is recommended in patients with PAI and confirmed aldosterone deficiency ( 16 ). Higher doses (i.e., 0.1-0.2mg daily) are typically required during the first year of life as newborns have lower mineralocorticoid sensitivity. In addition, infants typically require salt supplementation with sodium chloride, at doses of 1-2 grams daily given in 3-4 divided doses. Treatment with sodium chloride is gradually reduced during the first couple of years of life and replaced with unrestricted salt supplementation with food as the child transitions to regular diet. Extra fluids with electrolytes are recommended when excessive sweating is anticipated, such as during vigorous exercise or hot weather. MONITORING DURING THERAPY Monitoring of Glucocorticoid Replacement There is no good biomarker to assess glucocorticoid replacement. Morning ACTH concentrations are frequently elevated and attempts to normalize ACTH levels may result in overtreatment ( 16 ).
