Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


Glucocorticoid Replacement There is no good biomarker to assess glucocorticoid replacement. Morning ACTH concentrations are frequently elevated and attempts to normalize ACTH levels may result in overtreatment ( 16 ). Measurements of serum cortisol concentrations after hydrocortisone administration is not routinely done. Monitoring of therapy, therefore, relies primarily on clinical assessment. Morning nausea with poor appetite and weight loss can all be signs of inadequate treatment. Children should be questioned about their daily activities and energy during the day (i.e., need for napping after school), and the information should be considered when titrating medication doses. Growth velocity and weight gain are also sensitive clinical indicators. Specifically, overtreatment with glucocorticoids is associated with poor linear growth and an increase in BMI. Appropriate progression through puberty is reassuring. Monitoring of Mineralocorticoid Replacement As with glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoid replacement is also assessed clinically starting with questions related to salt craving and measurements of standing blood pressure and heart rate ( 16 ). Fatigue and poor growth can also be signs of inadequate mineralocorticoid replacement ( 95 ). Measurements of serum potassium and plasma renin (level or activity) can be used for titration of fludrocortisone dose and sodium chloride supplementation ( 1 , 2 , 16 , 94 ). Goals are to maintain serum potassium concentrations in the normal range and plasma renin in the upper range of normal. Orthostatic hypotension, high renin and hyperkalemia indicate undertreatment. On the contrary, low or suppressed plasma renin along with a low serum potassium concentration are signs of mineralocorticoid overtreatment. In such cases, blood pressure needs to be assessed to ensure that the child does not experience hypertension, and fludrocortisone and sodium chloride doses adjusted. In the case of hypertension, one must also remember that hydrocortisone has mineralocorticoid activity and high replacement doses can contribute to blood pressure elevations. Thus, hydrocortisone doses need to be assessed and titrated as needed. Sick Day Management and Stress Dosing Endogenous cortisol secretion increases during acute illness, anesthesia, surgery, or trauma. Hence, individuals with AI require an increase in their glucocorticoid doses during times of physiological stress to avoid adrenal crisis. The stress dose regimens for children are largely empirical or consensus driven and may vary across practices. With lack of good quality evidence, many pediatric recommendations are adopted from adult literature ( 116 ). As an overarching principle, stress dose management errs on the side of overtreatment to avoid a potentially
