Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


quality evidence, many pediatric recommendations are adopted from adult literature ( 116 ). As an overarching principle, stress dose management errs on the side of overtreatment to avoid a potentially life-threatening adrenal crisis. For management purposes, the stressor is frequently referred to as “moderate” or “severe”. Severe stress refers to major illness (e.g., sepsis), that requires hospitalization, major surgical procedures that require general anesthesia (e.g., abdominal surgery), or severe trauma. Moderate stress refers to an acute illness that can be managed at home or with minor surgery (e.g., a dental procedure) ( table 2 ). Table 2. Summary of Stress Dose Management of a Child with Adrenal Insufficiency: Indications and Doses View in own window Indications Hydrocortisone dose Comments Adrenal Crisis Vomiting, lethargy, hemodynamic instability Age 0-24 months 25mg IVF resuscitation with 0.9% sodium chloride/5% glucose Continue with severe stress dose coverage. Age 2yrs - 10 yrs 50mg Age >10 years 100mg IM/SQ Severe stress Surgery, sepsis, major trauma, lethargy, repeated vomiting 100mg/m 2 /day divided 6 hours IV/IM Max 50mg every 6 hours Wean according to clinical status/improvement. Switch to moderate stress dosing usually when able to tolerate po. Moderate stress Fever >38.3 o C (101 o F) Significant trauma (i.e., broken bone), Minor surgery requiring anesthesia (e.g., dental procedures), seizures, intense exercise (i.e., marathon) 30-50 mg/m 2 /day divided 8 hours orally Continue stress dose coverage for up to 24 hours after stress resolves. Prednisone can be used as an alternative if hydrocortisone is not available. Dexamethasone is the least preferable option. Additional indications: Minor cold, school exams = no need for stress dosing. Medical procedure with local anesthesia = moderate stress dose orally once prior to procedure. MANAGEMENT OF ADRENAL CRISIS Adrenal crisis is characterized by hypotension and volume depletion. Hypoglycemia is frequent in children. In cases of combined glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid defects, there is additional urinary sodium loss resulting in electrolyte abnormalities (i.e., hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, acidosis, and elevated serum urea). The cornerstones of therapy are glucocorticoid replacement and fluid resuscitation. Children with suspected adrenal crisis should immediately receive a bolus dose of hydrocortisone IM or IV ( Table 2 ). For emergencies, a dose based on age can be used, such as 25mg, 50mg and 100mg for children <2 years, 1-10 years, and older than 10 years, respectively. The child should then continue receiving stress dose coverage with parenteral hydrocortisone at doses of 100mg/m 2 /day
