Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


for children <2 years, 1-10 years, and older than 10 years, respectively. The child should then continue receiving stress dose coverage with parenteral hydrocortisone at doses of 100mg/m 2 /day given every 6 hours (maximum dose 50mg every 6 hours) until their condition improves. If hydrocortisone is not available, prednisone (20mg/m 2 /day) can be used as an alternative, while dexamethasone (4mg/m 2 /day) is the least preferable glucocorticoid option, related to its metabolic consequences as well as lack of mineralocorticoid properties. Fluid resuscitation can start with a bolus of 0.9% sodium chloride at 10 mL/kg. In the case of hypoglycemia, normal saline with 5% glucose can be used. Fluids should continue based on patient’s needs. Hyperkalemia can be severe at the onset of adrenal crisis but improves rapidly with parenteral glucocorticoid and fluid management. Additional therapies to lower serum potassium concentrations can be considered (i.e., IV insulin and glucose, IV calcium gluconate or cation exchange resins) if severe hyperkalemia persists. MANAGEMENT OF SEVERE STRESS It entails parenteral administration of hydrocortisone at 100mg/m 2 /day given every 6 hours (maximum dose 50mg every 6 hours) ( 116 ) ( Table 2 ) Doses can be tapered rapidly and based on clinical improvement to the established daily glucocorticoid regimen. For children recovering from surgery, hydrocortisone can usually be changed to oral sick-day doses once they are stable and can tolerate oral fluids and diet. Children with PAI do not require fludrocortisone during severe stress coverage, as hydrocortisone also has mineralocorticoid activity. Fludrocortisone must be added back to their treatment plan as hydrocortisone is weaned down to approximately 50-60mg/m 2 /day. MANAGEMENT OF MODERATE STRESS OR HOME SICK DAY RULES Families are advised to increase their child’s daily glucocorticoid dose if they experience an intercurrent illness, such as fever or diarrhea ( Table 2 ). Hydrocortisone doses that provide stress dose coverage for such situations (i.e. moderate stress) are in the range of 30-50mg/m 2 /day given every 6 or 8 hours ( 116 ). A frequent instruction to patients and families is to double or triple the daily hydrocortisone dose. This approach may lead to undertreatment if the daily dose is small. Calculation of a specific moderate stress dose based on the child’s body surface area (BSA) is preferable as it provides a more precise dosing. Stress dose coverage is not recommended for minor upper respiratory viral infections, increased schoolwork, emotional
