Adrenal Insufficiency in Children
KEYWORDS: adrenal, pubmed, crossref, pubmed crossref, doi, cortisol, insufficiency, adrenal insufficiency, acth, free, glucocorticoid, pmc, article, free article, children


the child’s body surface area (BSA) is preferable as it provides a more precise dosing. Stress dose coverage is not recommended for minor upper respiratory viral infections, increased schoolwork, emotional stress, or intense exercise of brief duration. Although there is no specific guideline, some medical providers recommend using stress doses during prolonged intense training, such as a marathon. Patients and families should undergo in-depth training around stress dose management. Instructions should include indications for moderate stress glucocorticoid administration and appropriate doses and training on using hydrocortisone as an emergency injection IM in case of vomiting, severe trauma, or impending adrenal crisis. They should be provided with a medical letter or card that documents stress dose instructions and contact information of medical providers and caregivers. Children should wear a medical alert bracelet and carry emergency supplies of oral glucocorticoids and emergency injectable hydrocortisone. Glucocorticoid-Induced Adrenal Insufficiency: Wean and Recovery of Adrenal Function GLUCOCORTICOID TAPERING There is no evidence to support a specific approach to GC taper. For individuals on chronic glucocorticoid treatment (i.e., >3-4 weeks) at supraphysiologic doses for an underlying disease (e.g. inflammatory or immune disorder), glucocorticoid taper should be done at a rate dictated by the underlying condition in order to maintain disease remission ( 58 ). Glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome has been described primarily in adults during tapering of supraphysiologic doses or after successful treatment of Cushing ( 117 ). The syndrome can mimic signs of adrenal insufficiency (i.e., fatigue, muscle aches, nausea, abdominal discomfort, weight loss, mood swings, irritability) but is not related to untreated adrenal insufficiency, as the glucocorticoid daily dose is still supraphysiologic ( 117 ). The underlying mechanism is incompletely understood and likely involves cytokine and prostaglandin upregulation as cortisol concentrations decline. Should glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome be suspected tapering down to physiologic doses can be done at a slower pace ( 58 ). Once physiologic glucocorticoid doses have been achieved, a slower taper below physiologic doses have been suggested ( 58 ). The tapering aims to alleviate symptoms of adrenal insufficiency while allowing for HPA axis recovery. For those on long-acting glucocorticoids (e.g., dexamethasone), it is suggested to switch to hydrocortisone to ease with titration at small doses and faster recovery of the adrenal axis. Weaning below physiologic doses is done mostly empirically since there is no evidence about the best practice protocol. It is our practice to wean from physiologic replacement to off glucocorticoids
