Is Atherosclerosis a Pediatric Disease?
KEYWORDS: risk, pubmed, factors, atherosclerosis, disease, risk factors, cardiovascular, heart, cholesterol, early, study, coronary, levels, health, children


ABSTRACT In the US and other developed countries, cardiovascular disease is a major health burden and the leading cause of death. There are at least three lines of evidence that support the concept of atherosclerosis, the principal cause of cardiovascular disease, having its origins in childhood. Although the most direct evidence is in children with genetic dyslipidemia, such as familial hypercholesterolemia, there is evidence that in-utero and acquired effects may play a role as well. The ability to identify genetic mutations and/or acquired factors or conditions early in childhood creates the opportunity to prevent development of risk factors and future CVD-related events by effective and timely intervention. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Since publication of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) recommendations in 1992 ( 1 ), there has been growing interest in early identification and intervention of children at moderate to high risk of premature cardiovascular disease. Since that time, additional pediatric specific guidelines and recommendations have been published ( 2 , 3 , 4 ). A fundamental question, however, is whether atherosclerosis, the underlying basis for cardiovascular disease, is a pediatric disease. Arteriosclerosis is characterized by deposits of lipoproteins and calcium in the arterial intima (plaques), resulting in inflammation and subsequent fibrosis. The buildup of arterial plaques reduces blood flow and often leads to symptoms of cardiovascular disease (CVD), such as angina, and CVD-related events, such as myocardial infarction and stroke. Although the atherosclerotic process rarely leads to CVD-related symptoms or events in children, its origins can be demonstrated at a very young age in those with genetic mutations and acquired risk factors and conditions. In contrast to those with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, children with a homozygous disease have early clinical manifestations (xanthoma) and significant, symptomatic ASCVD that generally results in premature death, often during adolescence or early adulthood. There are at least three lines of evidence that support the concept of atherosclerosis having its origins in childhood. Although the most direct is in children with genetic dyslipidemia, such as familial hypercholesterolemia, there is evidence that in-utero and acquired effects may play a role as well. FETAL STUDIES During pregnancy maternal hypercholesterolemia, such as occurs in women with familial hypercholesterolemia, may have an adverse effect on the future health of the fetus. The presence of greatly increased fatty streak formation in human fetal arteries has
