Is Atherosclerosis a Pediatric Disease?
KEYWORDS: risk, pubmed, factors, atherosclerosis, disease, risk factors, cardiovascular, heart, cholesterol, early, study, coronary, levels, health, children


in women with familial hypercholesterolemia, may have an adverse effect on the future health of the fetus. The presence of greatly increased fatty streak formation in human fetal arteries has been reported in over 50% of fetuses of mothers who were hypercholesterolemic during pregnancy ( 5 ). Strong correlations were noted between maternal and fetal plasma cholesterol levels, which in turn were proportional to the extent of lesion formation in the fetus. Despite similar plasma cholesterol levels during childhood, atherosclerosis in children of hypercholesterolemic mothers progressed much more rapidly than did children of mothers who had normal cholesterol levels ( 6 ). Use of cholesterol lowering agents or antioxidants in the mother greatly reduced fetal and postnatal atherosclerosis in the offspring ( 7 ). A potential mechanism for this susceptibility to atherosclerosis is suggested by animal models that demonstrate persistence differences in arterial gene expression after birth between offspring of mothers who have normal compared to elevated levels of cholesterol. This evidence supports the assumption that fetal lesion formation is associated with genetic programming, which may in turn affect postnatal atherogenesis ( 8 ). Cholesterol lowering and antioxidant treatment during pregnancy appear to positively influence in-utero programming and decrease postnatal susceptibility to atherogenesis ( 9 ). OBSERVATIONAL/EPIDEMIOLOGIC STUDIES Fatty streaks, the earliest progenitor lesions, are present from early childhood and well established by 20 or 30 years of age. Such lesions, as well as raised plaques, increase rapidly in prevalence and extent during the 15–34-year age span. Relatively advanced levels of atherosclerosis, including fibrous plaques, have been found in adolescents and young adults ( 10 - 12 ). Fatty streaks progress to raised lesions at vulnerable anatomic sites ( 13 ). Vascular surfaces subjected to turbulent flow, the preferred sites for fatty streaks, are the same sites as those for advanced lesions, the latter being vulnerable to plaque rupture and thrombosis ( 10 , 14 , 15 ). Observational studies from autopsies have helped inform us about the timing, extent and severity of atherosclerotic lesions. Thirty percent (30%) of autopsy specimens of black males contained aortic atheroma by age 10 years ( 16 ). Autopsy studies of U.S. soldiers killed during the Korean War showed significant evidence of CVD in 77% of soldiers, with an average age of 22 years ( 17 ). Similar findings were reported in Vietnam War casualties ( 18 ). In addition to autopsy findings, studies
