Is Atherosclerosis a Pediatric Disease?
KEYWORDS: risk, pubmed, factors, atherosclerosis, disease, risk factors, cardiovascular, heart, cholesterol, early, study, coronary, levels, health, children


77% of soldiers, with an average age of 22 years ( 17 ). Similar findings were reported in Vietnam War casualties ( 18 ). In addition to autopsy findings, studies using noninvasive measures, including carotid intima-medial thickness (cIMT) and arterial distensibility, have shown anatomic and functional changes of atherosclerosis in youth ( 19 - 23 ). Thickness of the far wall of the internal carotid progresses with age and risk factors alone and together predict thickness in young adults ( 24 ). The risk factors associated with early arterial lesions in children and young adults are the same as those associated with the advanced lesions that cause symptomatic coronary artery disease in adulthood ( 12 , 25 ). Increased body mass index (BMI), elevated systolic and diastolic blood pressures, high low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and diabetes mellitus are all associated with greater atherosclerotic plaque coverage and more advanced atherosclerotic lesions ( 12 , 26 - 28 ). Autopsy data show that the severity of asymptomatic CVD increases as the number of risk factors increase from 2 - 39 years of age ( 13 , 29 ). Based on considerable evidence, we can conclude that observational and epidemiologic studies have documented: 1) the origins of atherosclerosis are present from a very early age; 2) there is a striking increase in both the severity and extent of atherosclerosis as age and the number of risk factors increase; 3) the presence and intensity of risk factors are highly correlated with the extent and severity of atherosclerosis; and 4) the combined impact of multiple risk factors is exponentially greater than individual factors alone. MENDELIAN RANDOMIZATION STUDIES Genetic mutations characterized by lifelong elevations of cholesterol are associated with increased cardiovascular disease and premature events and provide the best evidence relating risk to future probability of ASCVD ( 30 ). Conversely, genome wide analysis has demonstrated many alleles that profoundly decrease CVD risk by lifelong lower levels of cholesterol ( Table 1 ) ( 31 , 32 ). It cannot be assumed, however, that a comparable level of lipid lowering achieved later in life with the use of medication will offer the same protective effects ( 33 ). This, in part, may be due to initiation of lipid-lowering therapy after clinical disease is recognized, which may be insufficient to prevent the progression of established atherosclerosis. Additionally, the duration
