Is Atherosclerosis a Pediatric Disease?
KEYWORDS: risk, pubmed, factors, atherosclerosis, disease, risk factors, cardiovascular, heart, cholesterol, early, study, coronary, levels, health, children


11 ):1033-1042. **Association of Triglyceride-Lowering LPL Variants and LDL-C-Lowering LDLR Variants With Risk of Coronary Heart Disease. Ference BA, Kastelein JJP, Ray KK, Ginsberg HN, Chapman MJ, Packard CJ, Laufs U, Oliver-Williams C, Wood AM, Butterworth AS, Di Angelantonio E, Danesh J, Nicholls SJ, Bhatt DL, Sabatine MS, Catapano ALJAMA. 2019 Jan 29;321 ( 4 ):364-373. As an alternative to statins, the utility of newer therapies such as ATP citrate lyase inhibitors (ACLY), an enzyme in the cholesterol–biosynthesis pathway upstream of 3hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl–coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR), are being explored. Studies of genetic variants that mimic the effect of ATP citrate lyase inhibitors showed that, compared to statins, ACLY inhibitors appear to lower plasma LDL-C levels by the same mechanism of action. Both were associated with similar effects on the risk of CVD per unit decrease in the LDL-C level ( 38 ). These findings, if found to be safe and effective, offer new opportunities for future drug development. ACQUIRED RISK FACTORS AND RISK CONDITIONS Risk factors and risk conditions ( Table 3 ) are often acquired during childhood and may accelerate development of ASCVD. In clinical practice dyslipidemia is most commonly encountered in children and adolescents who are obese (BMI > 95 th percentile) and insulin resistant, the latter clinically manifest by the presence of acanthosis nigricans, impaired or elevated fasting glucose, hypertension, and in girls, polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). There is a striking increase in both severity and extent of atherosclerosis as age and the number of risk factors increases. The presence and intensity of risk factors are highly correlated with the extent and severity of atherosclerosis. Furthermore, risk factors measured in childhood and adolescence have been shown to be better predictors of the severity of atherosclerosis than risk factors measured in young adults ( 13 ). Table 3. Acquired Risk Factors and Risk Conditions View in own window Risk Factors Non-Modifiable Modifiable • Family History Nutrition/Diet • Age Physical Inactivity • Gender Tobacco Exposure • Perinatal Factors Blood Pressure Lipid Levels Overweight/Obesity Diabetes Mellitus Metabolic Syndrome Inflammation Risk Conditions Moderate Risk High Risk • Kawasaki disease with regressed coronary aneurysms Kawasaki disease with current coronary aneurysms • Chronic inflammatory diseases Type 1 and 2 Diabetes Mellitus • HIV infection Post-orthotopic heart transplant The ability to identify genetic mutations and/or acquired factors or conditions early in this vulnerable population creates the opportunity to prevent development of risk factors and future
