Is Atherosclerosis a Pediatric Disease?
KEYWORDS: risk, pubmed, factors, atherosclerosis, disease, risk factors, cardiovascular, heart, cholesterol, early, study, coronary, levels, health, children


Post-orthotopic heart transplant The ability to identify genetic mutations and/or acquired factors or conditions early in this vulnerable population creates the opportunity to prevent development of risk factors and future CVD-related events by effective and timely intervention. All children, including those with genetic dyslipidemia, should be encouraged to follow a heart healthy lifestyle. If begun early, such efforts have the potential of preventing behaviors and risk factors that increase future CVD risk. To assist clinicians in this task, the American Heart Association (AHA) has defined four health behaviors and four health factors that are strongly correlated with ideal cardiovascular health ( 39 ). Observational studies of individuals who were able to achieve and maintain one or more ideal cardiovascular health behaviors into middle age had greater longevity, longer morbidity-free survival, compression of morbidity to the end of the lifespan, greater health-related quality of life in older age, and substantially lower healthcare costs later in life ( Table 4 ) ( 40 , 41 ). This evaluation of cardiovascular wellness can be applied to evaluation of adolescents and targeted as part of primordial prevention ( 42 ). Table 4. Correlation of Health Behaviors and Factors with Ideal Cardiovascular Health View in own window Number of Health Behaviors* (% lower risk for incidence CHD) Study N 1 2 3 4 5 Males ( 40 ) 42,847 (54%) (63%) (71%) (78%) (87%) Females ( 41 ) 84,129 --- --- (57%) (66%) (83%) Cardiovascular disease risk factors are associated with both the early and advanced stages of atherosclerosis. Individuals at increased risk should be encouraged to achieve a low lifetime risk by preventing development of risk factors starting in youth. Recognizing that this process begins during childhood is key to facilitating implementation of measures that will prevent atherosclerosis and thereby reduce or eliminate future CVD-related events. Using the seven AHA cardiovascular health metrics, scoring of adolescents using NHANES data showed low scores, especially deficient in points for diet and exercise ( 42 ). Retrospective analysis revealed that the seven metrics score in adolescents is inversely associated with cIMT and directly associated with arterial elasticity, suggesting that this evaluation of cardiovascular wellness can be applied to evaluation of adolescents and targeted as part of primordial prevention ( 43 ). Cardiovascular disease risk factors are associated with both the early and advanced stages of atherosclerosis. Individuals at increased risk should be encouraged to achieve a low
