Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: ventricular, right, right ventricular, patients, arvc, cardiac, ecg, disease, testing, diagnosis, icd, genetic, left, family, criteria


fibrillation and signs of right and/or left ventricular systolic failure are usually manifestations of advanced disease. Diagnosis of ARVC ECG Sometimes signal-averaged ECG Cardiac imaging (eg, echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, right ventricular angiography) Sometimes right ventricular biopsy Genetic testing Screening of first-degree family members Diagnosis of ARVC is difficult in the absence of advanced right ventricular systolic dysfunction, leading to historic under-recognition of the disorder. ARVC should be suspected in patients, particularly young patients, with palpitations, cardiac syncope, documented ventricular tachyarrhythmias, or resuscitation from unexplained cardiac arrest in the absence of clinically evident structural heart disease. The diagnosis of ARVC is often first suspected when it is recognized that the patient's ventricular arrhythmias are of right ventricular origin, typically indicated by a left bundle branch block–shaped QRS complex with a superior frontal plane axis (the latter helping to differentiate ARVC from the more benign idiopathic right ventricular outflow tract ventricular tachycardia, which usually has an inferior frontal plane QRS axis). 2/5 The initial evaluation of patients with suspected arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy includes history, family history, ECG, 2-dimensional echocardiography, and cardiac MRI. If no spontaneous ventricular arrhythmia has been demonstrated, exercise testing, ambulatory ECG monitoring, and/or electrophysiologic testing may be required. If the diagnosis remains in doubt, other testing may include signal averaged ECG, electrophysiologic testing, and right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy (1). Right ventricular angiography is not routine but, if done, may reveal characteristic structural abnormalities and also allow biopsy of the right ventricle; however, biopsy findings are often nonspecific and biopsy is rarely done. Because no single test is diagnostic, major and minor diagnostic criteria have been proposed by an international task force (2). The criteria include Evidence of right ventricular disease on imaging studies Right ventricular biopsy showing replacement of myocytes by fibrous tissue, fatty tissue, or both ECG repolarization changes including right precordial T-wave inversion ECG depolarization changes including right precordial epsilon waves Signal-averaged ECG showing late potentials Documented ventricular arrhythmias originating from the right ventricle Family history of ARVC or sudden death Identification of a gene mutation associated with ARVC The key entities to consider in the differential diagnosis are cardiac sarcoidosis, athlete's heart, myocarditis, and idiopathic right ventricular outflow tract VT. Genetic testing is usually done in patients suspected of having ARVC. The yield of testing is about 50% when task force criteria are met (3). First-degree family members of patients have a significant risk of
