Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Cardiomyopathy
KEYWORDS: ventricular, right, right ventricular, patients, arvc, cardiac, ecg, disease, testing, diagnosis, icd, genetic, left, family, criteria


in patients suspected of having ARVC. The yield of testing is about 50% when task force criteria are met (3). First-degree family members of patients have a significant risk of disease. Starting at age 10 to 12 years and every 1 to 3 years thereafter, they should have clinical evaluation (ie, to detect symptoms suggestive of arrhythmia), ECG, ambulatory ECG monitoring, and echocardiography. Genetic testing is done if the index case has a mutation identified. Family members without the index mutation are then freed of follow-up investigations. Treatment of ARVC Moderation of physical activity Often an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) Usually a beta-blocker Sometimes antiarrhythmic medications (particularly sotalol or amiodarone) Heart failure therapy (including transplantation) as required Treatment of ARVC focuses on prevention of sudden death and prevention of symptomatic ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Patients should avoid endurance athletics because such activities foster both disease progression and occurrence of life-threatening arrhythmias. These risks are higher in males and in patients with more advanced disease (as evidenced by more task force criteria) (1). The 5-year risk of a first episode of life-threatening arrhythmia ranges from approximately 2% to 50%, depending on age, sex, cardiac syncope within 1 year of diagnosis, non-sustained VT, ventricular premature beat frequency, the extent of T-wave inversion, and the RV ejection fraction. An online risk calculator for patients who have not yet had a life-threatening arrhythmia is available ( Prevention of sudden death is by an ICD (see also table Indications for an ICD). An ICD is recommended for patients with ARVC and the following (1): Resuscitated cardiac arrest Prior sustained VT with hemodynamic instability Severe right ventricular (or left ventricular) systolic dysfunction Possibly prior sustained VT without hemodynamic instability (class IIa indication]) Possibly syncope suspected to be due to ventricular arrhythmia (class IIa indication) Possibly various combinations of major and minor risk factors for ventricular arrhythmia (class IIa and class IIb indications) Significant right or left ventricular dysfunction will require medical therapy. A beta-blocker should be used in most patients. Antiarrhythmic therapy with flecainide or with a class III medication, particularly sotalol or amiodarone, may reduce symptomatic ventricular tachyarrhythmias but is not a substitute for an ICD. However, these medications may benefit patients who have frequent, appropriate ICD discharges despite adequate beta-blocker therapy. Transcatheter ablation of the arrhythmogenic substrate may also be useful in such patients (1). Key Points Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy is a genetic disorder in which
