Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


TSH by radioimmunoassay. Classically, TSH-omas were diagnosed at the stage of invasive macroadenoma and were considered difficult to cure. However, the advent of ultrasensitive immunometric assays and the more widespread clinical awareness, prompted by the work of several groups including our own, greatly increased the recognition of this entity. Nowadays, TSH-omas are more often diagnosed at an earlier stage, before they develop into macroadenomas, and an increased number of patients with normal or elevated TSH levels in the presence of high free thyroid hormone concentrations have been recognized. Signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism along with values of thyroid function tests similar to those found in TSH-oma may be encountered in patients with resistance to thyroid hormone beta, RTHβ ( 5 - 7 ). Failure to differentiate these diseases may result in dramatic consequences, such as improper thyroid ablation in patients with central hyperthyroidism or unnecessary pituitary surgery in those with RTHβ. Conversely, early diagnosis and the correct treatment of TSH-omas may prevent the occurrence of the typical complications of chronic hyperthyroidism (e.g. tachyarrhythmias, osteoporosis) and pituitary macroadenomas (e.g. visual field defects, headache, and hypopituitarism) and increases the chance of achieving a definitive cure. EPIDEMIOLOGY TSH-producing adenomas are rare and account for about 0.5% to 2% of all pituitary adenomas; the prevalence in the general population is thought to be 1 to 2 cases per million ( 1 , 2 , 8 - 86 ). However, this figure is probably an underestimate because TSH-omas can be missed with the widespread use of reflex TSH testing if the hormone is not frankly elevated. The Swedish Pituitary Registry ( 87 ) documented an increased incidence of TSH-omas over time (0.05 per 1 million per year in 1990-1994 to 0.26 per 1 million per year in 2005-2009), the national prevalence in 2010 being 2.8 per 1 million inhabitants. The increased number of reported cases principally results f rom improved general awareness by practitioners and endocrinologists. Based on the finding of non-suppressed or elevated serum TSH levels in the presence of elevated FT4 and FT3 concentrations, many patients are now correctly diagnosed with TSH-oma or with RTHβ ( 1 , 2 , 5 - 7 ). The presence of a TSH-oma has been reported at ages ranging from 7 to 84 years ( 2 , 58 - 60 , 74 ), the mean age at diagnosis being 46 ± 6 years ( 61 ). TSH-omas
