Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


ages ranging from 7 to 84 years ( 2 , 58 - 60 , 74 ), the mean age at diagnosis being 46 ± 6 years ( 61 ). TSH-omas occur with equal frequency in men and women, in contrast with the female predominance seen in other thyroid disorders, and a recent structured review of 535 adult cases of adult cases confirmed a female to male ratio of 1.07 ( 61 ). Familial cases of TSH-oma have been reported as part of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) ( 10 ), and in familial isolated pituitary adenoma (FIPA) families with an AIP mutation ( 52 ). PATHOLOGICAL ASPECTS Immunostaining studies showed the presence of TSH beta subunit, either free or combined, in all adenomatous cells from every type of TSH-oma, with only a few exceptions ( 1 , 2 , 8 , 9 , 88 , 89 ). Most TSH-secreting adenomas (72%) are secreting TSH alone, often accompanied by unbalanced hypersecretion of the alpha subunit of glycoprotein hormones (alpha-GSU) ( Table 1 ). Interestingly, the existence of TSH-omas composed of two different cell types, one secreting alpha-GSU alone and another cosecreting alpha-GSU and the mature TSH molecule (mixed TSH/alpha-GSU adenomas), was documented by using double gold particle immunostaining ( 89 ). The presence of a mixed TSH/alpha-GSU adenoma is suggested by the finding of an extremely high alpha-GSU/TSH molar ratio and/or by the observation of dissociated TSH and alpha-GSU responses to TRH ( 1 , 89 ). Classic mixed adenomas characterized by concomitant hypersecretion of other anterior pituitary hormones are found in about 25% of patients. Table 1. Recorded Cases of TSH-omas or TSH-PitNET of Different Type View in own window Number % of total Total TSH-omas 764 --- Pure TSH-omas 563 73.7 TSH-omas with associated hypersecretion of other pituitary hormones (mixed TSH-omas) 185 24.2 Mixed TSH/GH-omas 126 16.5 Mixed TSH/PRL-omas 51 6.7 Mixed TSH/FSH/LH-omas 8 1.0 Ectopic TSH 16 2.1 (Updated May 2025 including personal unpublished observations) Hypersecretion of GH and/or PRL, resulting in acromegaly and/or amenorrhea/galactorrhoea syndrome, are the most frequent associations ( 1 , 61 ). This is likely due to the common Prop-1 and Pit-1-dependent origin of thyrotroph, somatotroph and lactotroph cells ( 90 ). Rare is the occurrence of mixed TSH/gonadotropin adenomas, while no association with ACTH hypersecretion has been documented to date. Importantly, positive immunohistochemistry for one or more pituitary hormone(s) does not necessarily
