Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


is the occurrence of mixed TSH/gonadotropin adenomas, while no association with ACTH hypersecretion has been documented to date. Importantly, positive immunohistochemistry for one or more pituitary hormone(s) does not necessarily correlate with its or their hypersecretion in vivo ( 9 , 72 , 91 ). Accordingly, clinically and biochemically silent thyrotropinomas have been reported ( 9 , 92 , 93 ). Moreover, true TSH-secreting tumors associated with Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and hypothyroidism have been documented ( 2 , 39 , 94 , 95 ). Finally, an isolated pituitary gangliocytoma producing TSH and TRH has also been reported ( 96 ). Microadenomas, with a diameter <1 cm, were recorded in less than 15% of the cases before 1996 ( 22 ), but their prevalence among all the TSH-omas is progressively increasing due to improved testing of thyroid function and awareness among endocrinologists and general practitioners. Consistently, in the series published by our institution in 2014 and 2020 ( 97 , 152 ), up to 30% of TSH-omas were microadenomas. A structured review of 533 cases of adult TSH-omas by De Herdt C et al. published in 2021 reported that 23.1% of them were microadenomas, and the remaining 76.9% were macroadenoma with a mean diameter of 21.5 ± 7.9 mm ( 61 ). The TSH-omas diagnosed at the stage of macroadenomas showed localized or diffuse invasiveness into the surrounding structures, especially into the dura mater ( 1 , 8 , 15 , 22 , 88 ). Extrasellar extension in the supra- and/or parasellar direction were present in the majority of cases. The occurrence of invasive macroadenomas is particularly high among patients with previous thyroid ablation by surgery or radioiodine ( Figure 1 ) ( 2 ). This finding emphasizes the deleterious effects of incorrect diagnosis and treatment of these adenomas, because the resolution of thyrotoxicosis appears to release the brake exerted by the high circulating thyroid hormone levels on tumor growth. This potentially aggressive transformation of the tumor is reminiscent of Nelson’s syndrome, the progressive growth and secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) of corticotroph adenoma, after bilateral adrenalectomy for Cushing’s disease. Finally, some data suggest that somatic mutations of the thyroid hormone receptor beta gene may be responsible for the defect in negative regulation of TSH secretion in some TSH-omas ( 56 , 98 - 100 ). In addition, alteration in iodothyronine deiodinase enzyme expression and function may contribute to the resistance of
