Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


regulation of TSH secretion in some TSH-omas ( 56 , 98 - 100 ). In addition, alteration in iodothyronine deiodinase enzyme expression and function may contribute to the resistance of tumor cells to the feedback mechanism of elevated thyroid hormone levels ( 101 ). However, these data were not confirmed by another study on this topic ( 102 ). Figure 1. Clinical manifestations in patients with TSH-secreting adenomas. Patients have been divided into two categories according to previous thyroid surgery. The presence of goiter is the rule, even in patients with partial thyroidectomy. Hyperthyroid features may be overshadowed by those of associated hypersecretion/deficiency of other pituitary hormones. Invasive tumors are seen in about half of the patients with previous thyroidectomy and in ¼ of untreated patients (P<0.01 by Fisher’s exact test). Intrasellar tumors show an opposite distribution pattern. The consistency of TSH-omas is usually very fibrous and sometimes so hard that they were described as a “pituitary stone” ( 103 ). Increased basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) levels were found in blood from two patients with invasive mixed PRL/TSH-secreting adenomas characterized by marked fibrosis ( 104 ). The tumoral origin of bFGF was confirmed by the finding of specific transcripts in the tissues removed at surgery, suggesting a possible autocrine role for this growth factor in tumor development. By light microscopy and appropriate staining, adenoma cells usually have a chromophobe appearance. Cells are often organized in cords, and they frequently appear polymorphous and characterized by large nuclei and prominent nucleoli. Ultrastructurally, the well differentiated adenomatous thyrotropes resemble the normal ones, while the poorly differentiated adenomas are composed of elongated angular cells with irregular nuclei, poorly developed rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER), long cytoplasmic processes, and sparse small secretory granules (50-200 nm) usually lining up along the cell membrane ( 9 , 88 ). Generally, no exocytosis is detectable ( 105 ). Cells with abnormal morphology or mitoses are occasionally found and may be mistaken for a pituitary malignancy or metastases from distant carcinomas ( 105 ). Of note, the transformation of a TSH-oma into a pituitary carcinoma with multiple metastases has only been reported rarely ( 35 , 61 , 62 , 106 ). Future malignant behavior might be predicted by the finding of a concomitant, spontaneous and marked decrease of both TSH and alpha-GSU serum concentrations that might indicate that the tumor is becoming less differentiated. Finally, in a mouse
