Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


the finding of a concomitant, spontaneous and marked decrease of both TSH and alpha-GSU serum concentrations that might indicate that the tumor is becoming less differentiated. Finally, in a mouse model of TSH-oma, the activation of phosphatidyl-inositol 3-kinase promoted aberrant pituitary growth that may induce transformation of the adenoma into a carcinoma ( 107 ). MOLECULAR AND IN VITRO SECRETION STUDIES The molecular mechanisms leading to the formation of TSH-omas are presently unknown, as is true for most pituitary adenomas. X-chromosomal inactivation analysis demonstrated that most pituitary adenomas, including the small number of TSH-omas investigated, derive from the clonal expansion of a single initially transformed cell ( 43 ). Accordingly, the general principles of tumorigenesis, which assume the presence of a transforming event providing gain of proliferative function followed by secondary mutations or alterations favoring tumor progression, presumably also apply to TSH-omas. A large number of candidate genes, including common proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes as well as pituitary specific genes, have been screened for mutations that might confer a growth advantage to thyrotrope cells. In analogy with the other pituitary adenomas, no mutations in oncogenes commonly activated in human cancer, particularly RAS , have been reported in TSH-omas. In contrast, with GH-secreting adenomas in which the oncogene gsp ( GNAS mutation) is frequently present, none of the TSH-oma screened has been shown to express activating mutations of genes encoding for G protein subunits ( 108 ). Similarly, no mutations in the TRH receptor or dopamine D2 receptor genes ( 108 , 109 ) have been reported in 9 and 3 TSH-omas, respectively, while these tumors were not screened for alterations in protein kinase C alterations, previously identified in some invasive tumors. In consideration of the crucial role that the transcription factor Pit-1 exerts on cell differentiation and PRL, GH and TSH gene expression, the Pit-1 gene has been screened for mutations in 14 TSH-omas and found to be wild-type ( 2 ). By contrast, as occurs in GH-omas, Pit-1 was demonstrated to also be overexpressed in TSH-omas ( 2 , 88 , 90 ). In addition to activating mutations or overexpression of protooncogenes, tumors may originate from the loss of tumor suppressor genes, but no loss of p53 was found in the only TSH-oma studied. Another candidate gene is MEN1 coding for menin. In fact, 3-30% of sporadic pituitary adenomas show loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on 11q13, where MEN1
