Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


found in the only TSH-oma studied. Another candidate gene is MEN1 coding for menin. In fact, 3-30% of sporadic pituitary adenomas show loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on 11q13, where MEN1 is located, and LOH on this chromosome seems to be associated with the transition from the non-invasive to the invasive phenotype. A study carried out on 13 TSH-omas using polymorphic markers on 11q13 showed LOH in 3, but none of them showed a MEN1 mutation after sequence analysis ( 110 ). Interestingly, hyperthyroidism due to TSH-omas has been reported in five cases within a familial setting of MEN1 ( 1 , 2 , 10 ). In addition, LOH and polymorphisms at the somatostatin receptor type 5 gene locus, seem to be associated with an aggressive phenotype and resistance to somatostatin analogue treatment ( 111 ). Moreover, germline mutations in the aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein ( AIP ) are known to be involved in sporadic pituitary tumorigenesis, and mutations were found in two patients with TSH-omas ( 52 , 112 ). Finally, a recent study based on whole-exome sequencing identified several candidate somatic mutations and copy number variations in 12 sporadic TSH-omas, but with a low number per tumor and without the mutations being observed in different cases ( 113 ). A publication by a French group analyzing a series of secreting and non-secreting pituitary adenomas (including 6 TSH-omas) demonstrated a higher frequency of chromosomal alterations in TSH-omas, but these alterations were not associated with aggressiveness ( 114 ). The same authors also demonstrated that POU1F1/PIT1-lineage tumors (including TSH-omas) were characterized by a global hypomethylation, possibly inducing chromosomal alterations through the activation of transposable elements. Finally, a transcriptomic analysis demonstrated that thyrotroph tumors cluster with sparsely granulated somatotroph adenomas and plurihormonal PIT1-positive adenomas, a group characterized by a high interferon-α and -γ gene expression ( 114 ). The extreme refractoriness of neoplastic thyrotropes to the inhibitory action of thyroid hormones suggests the presence of mutant forms of thyroid hormone receptors (TR) as potential candidate oncogenes. Absence of TR alpha1, TR alpha2 and TR beta1 expression was reported in two TSH-omas ( 100 , 115 ), but aberrant alternative splicing of thyroid hormone receptor beta2 ( THRB ) mRNA encoding TR beta variant lacking T3 binding activity and other THRB mutations were shown as a mechanism for impaired T3-dependent negative regulation of both TSH and alpha-GSU in tumoral tissue ( 98
