Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


beta variant lacking T3 binding activity and other THRB mutations were shown as a mechanism for impaired T3-dependent negative regulation of both TSH and alpha-GSU in tumoral tissue ( 98 , 99 ). Moreover, aberrant expression of a novel thyroid hormone receptor β isoform (TRβ4) may partly contribute to the inappropriate secretion of TSH in TSH-omas ( 56 ). Several patients with RTHβ have been described to bear pituitary lesions at imaging of the sella region, raising diagnostic and therapeutic challenges ( 30 , 115 - 118 , 152 ). The results of dynamic testing of TSH secretion were consistent with RTHβ, rather than TSH-omas, indicating that these lesions are likely to be non-secreting pituitary incidentalomas, whose prevalence in unselected autopsy series reaches 20% ( 117 ). Pharmacological manipulations in short-term cell cultures of TSH-omas indicate that these tumors express a large number of functioning receptors. Although in vivo TSH response to TRH is usually absent, several in vitro studies showed either the presence or the absence of TSH response, indicating that most tumors possess TRH receptors ( 2 ). Similarly, somatostatin binding experiments indicate that almost all TSH-omas express a variable number of somatostatin receptors, the highest somatostatin-binding site densities being found in mixed GH/TSH adenomas ( 57 , 119 , 120 ). Since somatostatin analogues are highly effective in reducing TSH secretion by neoplastic thyrotropes ( 12 , 13 , 30 , 75 , 121 - 123 ), the inhibitory pathway mediated by somatostatin receptors appears to be largely intact in such adenomas. Consistently, there is a good correlation between somatostatin binding capacity and maximal biological response, as quantified by inhibition of TSH secretion and in vivo restoration of an euthyroid state ( 57 , 121 - 124 ). The presence of dopamine receptors in TSH-omas was the rationale for therapeutic trials with dopaminergic agonists, such as bromocriptine ( 57 , 125 , 126 ). Several studies have shown a large heterogeneity of TSH responses to dopaminergic agents, either in primary cultures or in vivo ( 1 , 41 , 127 , 128 ). The effects of these two inhibitory agents should be nowadays re-evaluated considering the demonstration of the possible heterodimerization of somatostatin receptor subtype 5 (sst5) and dopamine D2 receptor ( 129 ). CLINICAL FINDINGS Patients with TSH-omas present with signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism that are frequently associated with the compressive manifestations of the pituitary
