Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


and dopamine D2 receptor ( 129 ). CLINICAL FINDINGS Patients with TSH-omas present with signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism that are frequently associated with the compressive manifestations of the pituitary macroadenomas ( Figure 1 ) ( 22 , 49 , 65 , 130 ). TSH-omas may occur at any age and, in contrast with the common thyroid disorders, there is no preferential incidence in females ( 2 , 8 , 22 , 61 ). Due to the long history of thyroid dysfunction, many patients had been mistakenly diagnosed as having primary hyperthyroidism (Graves’ disease or multinodular goiter), and about one third had inappropriate thyroid ablation by thyroidectomy and/or radioiodine. True coexistence of Graves’ disease and TSH-oma has been reported in about 20 cases ( 54 , 80 , 131 - 134 ). The majority of these cases were females, and the dual diagnosis was confirmed within 3 years from the original diagnosis in all cases. When Graves’ disease is diagnosed initially, it has been speculated that antithyroid medications may promote the growth of a TSH-oma via the positive feedback system ( 133 ). Clinical features of hyperthyroidism are present in up to 75% of patients ( 1 , 63 ), sometimes milder than expected given the level of thyroid hormones, probably due to their gradual increase and longstanding duration ( 135 ). Interestingly, only two cases of TSH-oma complicated by thyroid storm peri- or post-operatively have been published ( 136 , 137 ). Consistently, several untreated patients with TSH-oma were described as clinically euthyroid ( 60 , 138 ). Moreover, hyperthyroid features can be overshadowed by those of acromegaly in patients with mixed TSH/GH adenomas ( 61 , 79 , 139 - 143 ), thus emphasizing the importance of the systematic measurement of TSH and FT4 in patients with pituitary tumors. Acromegaly itself can often be associated with multinodular goiter, presenting a further confounding diagnostic scenario. Thyrotoxic heart failure and atrial fibrillation were described in a considerable percentage of cases (11.1%) ( 61 ). Cardiac complications such as atrial fibrillation and cardiac failure have been seldom reported ( 144 - 147 ). Typical episodes of periodic paralysis have also been described in two patients ( 20 , 148 ). A high prevalence of radiological vertebral fracture has been documented in a series of patients with TSH-omas ( 149 ) thus confirming the deleterious effects of thyrotoxicosis on bone health. The
