Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


high prevalence of radiological vertebral fracture has been documented in a series of patients with TSH-omas ( 149 ) thus confirming the deleterious effects of thyrotoxicosis on bone health. The presence of a goiter is the rule, even in the patients with previous partial thyroidectomy, since thyroid residue may regrow as a consequence of the chronic TSH hyperstimulation. The occurrence of uni- or multinodular goiter is frequent (about 72% of reported cases), and progression towards functional autonomy was sometimes observed ( 150 - 152 ). The monitoring of the thyroid nodule(s) and the performance of fine needle aspiration biopsy should be performed in TSH-omas following established guidelines ( 1 , 11 , 55 , 61 , 153 - 157 ). A recent publication evaluating 62 patients who underwent surgery for TSH-oma demonstrated an estimated incidence of thyroid carcinoma of 4.8%, thus suggesting a possible role of TSH hypersecretion in the development of thyroid cancer ( 155 ). The prevalence of circulating antithyroid autoantibodies (anti-thyroglobulin: Tg-Ab, and anti-thyroid peroxidase: TPO-Ab) is similar to that found in the general population, but some patients developed Graves’ disease after pituitary surgery and a few others presented with bilateral exophthalmos due to the eye involvement of the autoimmune process ( 2 , 55 , 158 ), while unilateral exophthalmos due to orbital invasion by the pituitary tumor has also been reported ( 3 , 159 ). Dysfunction of the gonadal axis is not rare, with menstrual disorders present in one third of the reported cases, mainly in the mixed TSH/PRL adenomas. In this respect, a recent report described a case of a 37-year-old woman who had experienced galactorrhea and menstrual abnormalities; she underwent infertility treatment for one year before the TSH-oma was diagnosed ( 160 ). Central hypogonadism, delayed puberty and decreased libido were also found in some males with TSH-omas and/or mixed TSH/FSH adenomas ( 1 , 127 , 161 , 162 ). Because of suprasellar extension or invasiveness, signs and symptoms of an expanding tumor mass are predominant in many patients. Partial or total hypopituitarism was seen in about 25% of cases, headaches have been reported in 20-25% of patients, and visual field defects are present in about 50% of patients ( Figure 1 ). BIOCHEMICAL FINDINGS High concentrations of circulating free thyroid hormones in the presence of inappropriately unsuppressed TSH levels, within the reference range or above, characterize the hyperthyroidism secondary to
