Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


1 ). BIOCHEMICAL FINDINGS High concentrations of circulating free thyroid hormones in the presence of inappropriately unsuppressed TSH levels, within the reference range or above, characterize the hyperthyroidism secondary to TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas. In an analysis of 533 cases of TSH-omas it has been shown that the median TSH at diagnosis was 6.75 (4.02–11.90) mU/L in the case series and 5.16 (3.20–7.43) mU/L in the case reports, whereas FT4 averaged 35.7 ± 8.5 and 41.5 ± 15.3 pmol/L, respectively ( 61 ). Interestingly, normal levels of total T4/T3 were recorded in several patients with TSH-omas despite the presence of clinical signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism. This observation indicates that the measurement of circulating free thyroid hormones (FT4 and FT3) is mandatory. In fact, these measurements show the highest sensitivity for the correct diagnosis of central hyperthyroidism and prevent misclassification in the case of excess circulating levels of thyroxine-binding globulin ( 26 ). Many different physiological or clinical conditions, such as pregnancy or RTHβ, may present with hyperthyroxinemia and unsuppressed serum TSH levels, and should be distinguished from TSH-omas. Most of these conditions may be recognized on the basis of either a patient’s clinical history or by measuring the concentrations of FT4 and FT3 with direct “two-step” methods, i.e. the methods able to avoid possible interference due to the contact between serum factors and tracer at the time of the assay (e.g. equilibrium dialysis + RIA, adsorption chromatography + RIA, and back-titration) ( 163 , 164 ). In fact, some factors may interfere with the measurement of either thyroid hormones or TSH. The presence of anti-iodothyronine autoantibodies (anti-T4 and/or anti-T3) or abnormal albumin/transthyretin forms, such as those circulating in familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia, may cause FT4 and/or FT3 to be overestimated, particularly when “one-step” analog methods are employed ( 165 , 166 ). The more common factors interfering in TSH measurement and giving spuriously high levels of TSH are the circulating heterophilic antibodies, i.e. antibodies directed against mouse gamma-globulins ( 36 , 166 ). About 30% of TSH-oma patients with an intact thyroid gland showed TSH levels within the normal reference range ( 1 , 2 ). In this context, it is important to emphasize that the “reflex TSH strategy” (i.e., measurement of FT4 test only in the presence of an abnormal TSH result) fails to recognize both central hypo- and hyperthyroidism and thus misses the diagnosis of TSH deficiency or a
