Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


of FT4 test only in the presence of an abnormal TSH result) fails to recognize both central hypo- and hyperthyroidism and thus misses the diagnosis of TSH deficiency or a TSH-oma ( 167 , 168 ). Quite surprisingly, the diurnal rhythm is preserved in TSH-omas and TSH secretion shares many characteristics (cross-approximate entropy, cross-correlation and cosinor regression) of other pituitary hormone-secreting adenomas ( 169 ). Interestingly, a case of TSH-oma with cyclic fluctuations in serum TSH levels has recently been reported ( 170 ). Interestingly, despite the TSH-dependent origin of hyperthyroidism, there is no direct correlation between free thyroid hormone and immunoreactive TSH levels ( Figure 2 ). An increased biological activity of secreted TSH molecules likely accounts for the finding of a normal TSH in the presence of high levels of FT4 and FT3 ( 139 ). TSH molecules secreted by pituitary tumors are heterogeneous and may have either a normal, reduced, or increased ratio between their biological and immunological activities, probably due to modification of glycosylation processes secondary to alterations of the post-translational processing of the hormone within the tumor cell ( 171 , 172 ). Remarkably, TSH levels in patients previously treated with partial thyroid ablation were 6-fold higher than in untreated patients, though free thyroid hormone levels were still in the hyperthyroid range ( 140 ). Moreover, tumoral thyrotrophs may undergo more active cellular proliferation in response to even small reductions in circulating thyroid hormone levels, as documented by the higher number of invasive macroadenomas found in previously treated patients ( Figure 1 ), beyond the increase of TSH secretion. Figure 2. Absent correlation between immunoreactive concentrations of circulating TSH and FT3 in 14 patients with TSH-secreting adenomas. Dotted lines indicate the upper limits of normal ranges for both parameters. Independently of previous thyroid ablation, circulating free alpha-GSU levels and alpha-GSU/TSH molar ratios were clearly elevated in most patients with TSH-omas, either due to unbalanced secretion of the subunit or to the presence of a mixed TSH/alpha-GSU adenoma ( 89 ). The calculation of the alpha-GSU/TSH molar ratio increases the diagnostic sensitivity of hormone measurements, and an alpha-GSU/TSH molar ratio above 1.0 was associated with the presence of a TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma ( 2 , 8 ). However, data from our group show that the individual values must be compared with those of control groups matched for TSH and gonadotropin levels before drawing any diagnostic conclusions.
