Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


). However, data from our group show that the individual values must be compared with those of control groups matched for TSH and gonadotropin levels before drawing any diagnostic conclusions. Controls with normal levels of TSH and gonadotropins may have alpha-GSU/TSH molar ratios as high as 5.7, and values as high as 29.1 can be found in euthyroid postmenopausal women ( 173 ). Indeed, hypersecretion of alpha-GSU is not unique to TSH-omas, being present in the majority of true gonadotropinomas, in a subset of non-functioning pituitary adenomas, and in a number of GH- or PRL-secreting tumors. Moreover, high alpha-GSU levels may be observed in conditions other than pituitary adenomas, such as in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (e.g., ulcerative colitis, Crohn disease) or with other neuroendocrine tumors (e.g., carcinoids) ( 173 ). PARAMETERS OF THYROID HORMONE ACTION Patients with central hyperthyroidism present with manifestations of thyroid hormone overproduction. Therefore, the measurements of several parameters of peripheral thyroid hormone action have been proposed to quantify the degree of tissue hyperthyroidism ( 2 , 5 - 8 , 98 ). Some of them are measured in vivo (basal metabolic rate, cardiac systolic time intervals, “Achilles” reflex time) and others in vitro (sex hormone-binding globulin: SHBG, cholesterol, angiotensin converting enzyme, soluble interleukin-2 receptor, osteocalcin, carboxyterminal cross-linked telopeptide of type I collagen (ICTP or CTX)). Liver (SHBG) and bone parameters have been successfully used to differentiate hyperthyroid patients with TSH-omas from those with RTHβ ( Figure 3 ). In fact, as seen in the common forms of hyperthyroidism, patients with TSH-omas have high SHBG and ICTP levels, while they are in the normal range in patients with RTHβ ( 174 , 175 ). Figure 3. Values of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and carboxyterminal cross-linked telopeptide of type 1 collagen (ICTP or CTX) in patients with RTHβ or TSH-omas. Shaded areas represent the normal ranges either in premenopausal women or in postmenopausal women and men. The combined measurement of parameters from different tissues may be useful for the differential diagnosis and by-pass possible interference by different factors (age, liver or bone diseases, combined alteration of pituitary functions, treatments, etc.). Tx TSH-omas, treated TSH-omas. DYNAMIC TESTING Although both stimulatory and inhibitory tests had been proposed for the diagnosis of TSH-omas, none of them is of clear-cut diagnostic value. Classically, the T3 suppression test has been used to assess the presence of a TSH-oma. A complete inhibition
