Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


the diagnosis of TSH-omas, none of them is of clear-cut diagnostic value. Classically, the T3 suppression test has been used to assess the presence of a TSH-oma. A complete inhibition of TSH secretion after T3 suppression test (80-100 mcg/day for 8-10 days) has never been recorded in patients with TSH-omas. The T3 suppression test can be combined with TRH testing, where normal subjects and TSH-oma patients do not show a TSH response to TRH, while RTHβ patients maintain a brisk elevation ( 1 , 152 ). In patients with previous thyroid ablation, T3 suppression is the most sensitive and specific test in assessing the presence of a TSH-oma ( 2 , 8 , 117 , 152 ). However, this test is strictly contraindicated in elderly patients or in those with heart disease. TRH testing has been widely used to investigate the presence of a TSH-oma. In the vast majority of patients, TSH and alpha-GSU levels exhibit a blunted response after TRH injection ( 1 , 152 ). In patients with hyperthyroidism, discrepancies between TSH and alpha-GSU responses to TRH (i.e., higher alpha-GSU than TSH response) are pathognomonic of TSH-omas cosecreting other pituitary hormones. Such a discrepancy is also found in an opposite clinical condition, i.e., the congenital hypothyroidism due to a TSH beta gene mutation ( 176 ). The majority of TSH-omas maintain sensitivity to native somatostatin and its analogues. Indeed, administration of the native neuropeptide or its analogues (e.g., octreotide or lanreotide) induces a reduction of TSH levels in the majority of cases, and these tests may be predictive of the efficacy of long-term treatment ( 30 , 119 , 122 , 123 , 152 ). Recently, it has been confirmed that a positive somatostatin test result is suggestive for a TSH-oma even before positive findings become apparent on pituitary imaging ( 123 , 152 ). As suggested by the 2013 guidelines by the European Thyroid Association, we recommend the use of both T3 suppression and TRH tests whenever possible, because the combination of their results increases the specificity and sensitivity of the diagnostic work-up ( 152 ). IMAGING STUDIES AND LOCALIZATION OF THE TUMOR As for other tumors of the region of the sella turcica, nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is nowadays the preferred tool for the visualization of a TSH-oma. High-resolution computed tomography (CT) is the alternative investigation in the case of contraindications. Most TSH-omas have been
