Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


imaging (MRI) is nowadays the preferred tool for the visualization of a TSH-oma. High-resolution computed tomography (CT) is the alternative investigation in the case of contraindications. Most TSH-omas have been diagnosed in the past at the stage of macroadenomas, and various degrees of suprasellar extension or sphenoidal sinus invasion are seen in two thirds of cases. Microadenomas are now reported with increasing frequency in several clinical and surgical series. Pituitary scintigraphy with radiolabeled octreotide ( Octreoscan ) has been shown to successfully localize TSH-omas that express somatostatin receptors ( 8 , 177 , 178 ). However, the specificity of the Octreoscan is low, since positive scans can be seen in the case of a pituitary mass of different types, either secreting or non-secreting. The risk of assigning a wrong diagnosis of TSH-oma when a pituitary lesion is found associated with the biochemical features of central hyperthyroidism should always be considered before sending the patient to neurosurgery. Confirmatory testing is therefore recommended to exclude the possible association of RTHβ with a non-functioning pituitary lesion ( 152 ). Finally, ectopic localization of a TSH-oma has been reported by different groups who found a nasopharyngeal mass in 16 patients (2.1% of total cases, Table 1 ) with clinical and biochemical features of central hyperthyroidism ( 21 , 32 , 83 , 84 , 179 - 185 ). Histological and immunohistochemical studies of both specimens collected during the operation showed unequivocally that the tumor was a TSH-oma, and the resection of the mass restored TSH and alpha-GSU levels to normal. Interestingly, in these cases either the Octreoscan or a Gallium 68 DOTATATE Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography might be helpful in identifying an ectopic lesion ( 185 ). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS If FT4 and FT3 concentrations are elevated in the presence of measurable TSH levels, it is important to exclude methodological interferences due to the presence of circulating autoantibodies (e.g., against T3 and T4) or heterophilic antibodies (e.g., for TSH). A recent publication by Campi and others indicated assay interference as the main source of error due to the widespread use of high-throughput platforms based on one-step assays that increased the frequency of assay artifacts, due to interference from biotin, circulating heterophilic antibodies or abnormal binding proteins ( 152 ). In an asymptomatic patient with elevated FT4/FT3 and a normal TSH level, it is particularly important to consider Familial Dysalbuminemic Hyperthyroxinemia (FDH) in the differential diagnosis.
