Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


proteins ( 152 ). In an asymptomatic patient with elevated FT4/FT3 and a normal TSH level, it is particularly important to consider Familial Dysalbuminemic Hyperthyroxinemia (FDH) in the differential diagnosis. FDH is a familial autosomal dominant condition caused by an abnormal albumin molecule with an increased affinity for serum thyroxine thus leading to an increase in total T4 and, with many immunometric assays, a false increase of FT4 and FT3 ( 165 , 186 ). The diagnosis of FDH can now be easily confirmed or excluded by mutational analysis of the albumin (ALB) gene. In a patient with signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism, the confirmed presence of elevated FT4/FT3 and detectable TSH levels rules out Graves’ disease or other forms of primary hyperthyroidism. In patients receiving levothyroxine replacement therapy or suppressive therapy, the detection of measurable/high TSH levels with concomitantly high FT4/FT3 levels may be suggestive of an underlying TSH-oma. However, noncompliance (high TSH) or intake just prior to blood collection should be ruled out ( 187 ). When the existence of central hyperthyroidism is confirmed, several diagnostic steps should be carried out to differentiate a TSH-oma from RTHβ and avoid inappropriate treatments ( Table 2 ) ( 1 , 5 - 8 , 30 , 119 , 122 , 123 , 152 , 158 , 188 ). The presence of neurological signs and symptoms (visual defects, headache) of an expanding intra-cranial mass or clinical feature of concomitant hypersecretion of other pituitary hormones (acromegaly, galactorrhoea/amenorrhea) points to the presence of a TSH-oma. The presence of alterations of the pituitary content on MRI or CT scanning strongly supports the diagnosis of a TSH-oma. Nevertheless, the differential diagnosis may be difficult when the pituitary adenoma is small, or in the case of confusing lesions, such as an empty sella. Moreover, the possibility of pituitary incidentalomas should always be considered, due to their high prevalence. In our series, about 20% of RTHβ patients have a pituitary lesion on MRI. No significant differences in age, sex, previous thyroid ablation, TSH levels or free thyroid hormone concentrations were seen between patients with TSH-oma and those with RTHβ. However, in contrast to RTHβ patients, familial cases of TSH-oma have never been documented. Therefore, one of the most specific tools to uncover RTHβ is the search of the biochemical signature of central hyperthyroidism in the first-degree relatives of the proband case, as the biochemical signature co-segregates with
