Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


used, aiming at restoration euthyroidism. In patients with very severe hyperthyroidism, the administration of iopanoic acid has been successfully employed ( 25 ). Though the preoperative treatment with long-acting somatostatin analogues may be useful to reduce hyperthyroid signs and symptoms in a significant number of patients, as well as the adenoma size ( 190 - 193 ), no correlations between FT4/FT3 normalization and a higher rate of remission has been demonstrated ( 70 ). However, a recent multicenter, single-arm, phase 3 study in Japan confirmed that preoperative lanreotide autogel treatment was effective in normalizing thyroid function in 10/13 patients with TSH-omas, and to induce a -23.8% median percent change in pituitary tumor size from baseline at final assessment ( 194 ). Finally, a single report on the efficacy of pasireotide in the pre-operative treatment of a TSH-omas has been published ( 195 ). The adjuvant treatment with long-acting somatostatin analogues is nowadays more frequently prescribed in TSH-secreting macroadenomas prior to neurosurgery. It is worth noting that somatostatin analogues may lead to a condition of TSH deficiency. In the series published by Illouz and others, TSH deficiency appeared in 15% of 46 treated TSH-omas after a median time of 4 weeks, the TSH deficiency occurring after one to three injections of long-acting somatostatin analogues ( 196 ). These data suggest that thyrotropic function should be reassessed after the first three injections of somatostatin analogues in order to diagnose TSH deficiency and to reduce the frequency or the dose of injections when control of thyrotoxicosis is the aim of the treatment. After surgery, partial or complete hypopituitarism may result ( 197 , 198 ). However, a case of thyroid storm after pituitary surgery was documented ( 199 ). Evaluation of pituitary function, particularly ACTH secretion, should be carefully undertaken soon after surgery and hormone replacement therapy must be initiated, if indicated. In case of failure of pituitary surgery such as incomplete resection or tumor regrowth, and in the presence of life-threatening hyperthyroidism, total thyroidectomy or thyroid ablation with radioiodine is indicated ( 200 ). According to the largest published series, pituitary surgery is effective in restoring euthyroidism in 75% to 83% of patients with TSH-omas ( 63 , 75 , 88 , 201 ), and a metanalysis by Cossu and others showed that the pooled rate of postoperative biochemical remission was 69.7% and a gross total resection was observed in 54% of
