Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


described ( 34 ). Resistance to octreotide treatment has been documented in a few cases. Patients on somatostatin analogues have to be carefully monitored, as untoward side effects, such as cholelithiasis and carbohydrate intolerance, may become manifest. The dose administered should be tailored for each patient, depending on the therapeutic response. Tolerance is usually very good, as gastrointestinal side effects are transient with long-acting analogues ( 12 , 13 , 57 , 217 ). As a whole, post-operative treatment with a somatostatin analogue induces a biochemical remission ( 70 ) or lesds to stable disease in the vast majority of patients with residual tumors ( 61 ). CRITERIA OF CURE AND FOLLOW-UP Due to the rarity of the disease and the great heterogeneity of the methods used, the criteria of cure of patients operated or irradiated for TSH-omas has not been clearly established. Previous thyroid ablation makes some of these criteria inapplicable ( Table 3 ). Table 3. Criteria for the Evaluation of the Outcome of Treatment View in own window Criteria Comments Remission of hyperthyroid manifestations (clinical and biochemical) Clinical improvement may be transient No predictive value Disappearance of neurological manifestations (adenoma imaging, visual field defects, headache) May be transient Poor predictive value Normalization of free thyroid hormone levels Biochemical remission may be transient Poor predictive value Normalization of circulating TSH levels Not applicable to patients with TSH in the reference range Poor predictive value Undetectable TSH one week after neurosurgery Applicable to hyperthyroid patients that stopped treatments at least 10 days before surgery Good prognostic value Normalization of alpha-GSU levels and alpha-GSU/TSH molar ratio Not applicable to patients with normal values before neurosurgery Lack of sensitivity Positive T3-suppression test with undetectable TSH and no response to TRH (or central hypothyroidism) Not applicable to elderly patients or in those with cardiac diseases Optimal sensitivity/specificity and predictive value In previously hyperthyroid patients achieving euthyroidism through therapy, it is reasonable to assume that they are in remission. However, the findings of normal free thyroid hormone concentrations or indices of peripheral thyroid hormone action (SHBG, ICTP/CTX, etc.) are not synonymous of complete removal or destruction of tumoral cells, since transient clinical remission with relapse at a later time point is possible ( 63 , 64 , 70 , 117 , 140 ). Disappearance of neurological signs and symptoms is also a good prognostic event. The resolution of specific neuroradiological abnormalities is not
