Thyrotropin-Secreting Pituitary Adenomas
KEYWORDS: pituitary, pubmed, tsh, patients, thyroid, adenomas, endocrinol, adenoma, tsh-omas, thyrotropin-secreting, pituitary adenomas, free, pituitary adenoma, thyrotropin-secreting pituitary, case


63 , 64 , 70 , 117 , 140 ). Disappearance of neurological signs and symptoms is also a good prognostic event. The resolution of specific neuroradiological abnormalities is not always conclusive, since pituitary imaging performed soon after surgery is often difficult to interpret. The criteria of normalization of circulating TSH is not applicable to previously thyroidectomized patients and to the 26% of patients with normal basal values of TSH. In our experience, undetectable TSH levels one week after surgery are likely to indicate complete adenomectomy, provided that adjuvant treatments to control hyperthyroidism have been stopped before surgery ( 140 ). A recent publication from a Korean group analyzing the outcomes of adenomectomy in a series of 31 TSH-omas found that immediate postoperative TSH level at 12 hours after surgery, with a cutoff at 0.62 μIU/mL, was the strongest predictor of cure (165a). Normalization of alpha-GSU and/or the alpha-GSU/TSH molar ratio is in general a good index for the evaluation of the succes of therapy ( 8 , 140 ). However, both parameters can be normal in about 25% of patients with TSH-omas prior to surgery. The most sensitive and specific test to document the complete removal of the adenoma remains the T3 suppression test ( 140 ). In fact, only patients in whom T3 administration completely inhibits basal and TRH-stimulated TSH secretion, appear to be truly cured. Few data on the recurrence rates of TSH-omas in patients judged cured after surgery or radiotherapy have been reported. However, recurrences of the adenoma do not appear to be frequent, at least in the first years after successful surgery ( 64 , 140 ). In general, the patient should be evaluated clinically and biochemically 2 or 3 times during the first year after surgery, and then every year. Pituitary imaging should be performed every two or three years but should be promptly done whenever an increase in TSH and thyroid hormone levels, or clinical symptoms of hyperthyroidism occur. In the case of a persistent macroadenoma, close visual field follow-up is required, as visual function could be threatened. Emergency surgical decompression is not always able to reverse even a recent visual deficit. REFERENCES 1. Beck-Peccoz P, Brucker-Davis F, Persani L, Smallridge RC, Weintraub BD. Thyrotropin-secreting pituitary tumors. Endocr Rev 1996; 17:610-638. [ PubMed : 8969971 ] 2. Beck-Peccoz P, Lania A, Persani L. TSH-producing adenomas: in Endocrinology, Adult and Pediatric (7 th Edition,
