EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: apmv-, virus, pigeon, infection, patient, china, day, pigeons, etal, human, disease, infections, people, reads, figure


day 10 poi), sputum culture infections of pigeons . There is a considerable (day 9 and 20 poi), blood culture (day 19 poi), and difference in APMV-1 strain virulence, ranging from an antibody panel, covering 11 respiratory pathogens lethal to asymptomatic infection in the farm poultry (serumonday10poi),PCRpanel,covering13bacteria . APMV-1 has been spread to Africa, Asia and pathogens(sputumonday10poi),wereconductedto parts of Central and South America and circulating detect the potential pathogens causing the disease. as an enzootic disease. China is one of the areas PPMV-1 antibody was measured using human NDV where APMV-1 infection frequently occurs in the antibody ELISA test kit (Shjgogo, Shanghai, China) poultry . APMV-1 infects all major and minor for the sample collected on day 20 poi, as extensive species of domestic poultry, including chicken, cross-reaction between PPMV-1 and NDV occurred ducks, pigeons, and so on. Pigeons are the natural in serum assays using polyclonal antisera . hosts of APMV-1, playing an important role in the PMV-1ecology.InChina,genotypeVIispredomi- Epidemiology investigation nant in pigeons, and VI.2.1.1.2.2 contains the most recently isolated PPMV-1 viruses . Field investigators and clinicians used a standardized Generally, humans were not the susceptible hosts surveillance reporting form to gather epidemiological for APMV-1, though sporadic infection occurred in data, including demographic characteristics, recent patients with occupational exposure to infected poul- exposure to poultry, underlying medical conditions, try.HumaninfectionofAPMV-1usuallyshowed and work environment on day 30 poi (9 days post- mild symptoms, and most of them resolved without death).Thepatientwasthedoormanoftherestaurant cases of APMV-1 were reported in immune-compro- sparetime.Thepigeonswereboughtfromalivepoul- mised patients after peripheral blood stem cells or trymarketandrearedinthecagesfor2∼4daysbefore allogeneic bone marrow transplantation [15–17]. processing. This breeding place was situated in the Life-threateningAPMV-1infectionsinimmune-com- open backyard of the restaurant, tens of metres away petent persons have not been reported so far. We fromthekitchen.Environmentsamplesintherestau- detected APMV-1 infection in a 64-year-old man rant, including cage swabs from where the pigeons withpneumoniaafterlivepigeonexposure.Hishealth were raised, and sewage in the backyard, were col- deterioratedquickly,andthepatientdeceasedafter21 lected for the RT–PCR test of APMV-1 RNA; house- ingPCR/RT–PCRtestofrespiratoryvirusandmicro- feces from its hut, bedside excretion in the bedroom, biology culture of respiratory samples, showed no werecollectedonthesamedayforAPMV-1detection. pathogens except Acinetobacter baumannii (ABA), Noneoftherestauranstaffclaimedclosecontactwith which is multi-drug-resistant and is associated with the live pigeons or pigeon cages, and 3 of them pro- severe adverse outcomes indicated by a previous vided serum samples for potential APMV-1 antibody study . His bronchoalveolar lavage fluid collected testing; we also obtained the leftover serum from the onJan4wassenttoanInVitroDiagnosticscompany Procalcitonin assay collected
