EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: apmv-, virus, pigeon, infection, patient, china, day, pigeons, etal, human, disease, infections, people, reads, figure


by a previous vided serum samples for potential APMV-1 antibody study . His bronchoalveolar lavage fluid collected testing; we also obtained the leftover serum from the onJan4wassenttoanInVitroDiagnosticscompany Procalcitonin assay collected on day 20 poi for serol- APMV-1 and ABA in the sample on Jan 9, 2021. We heredetailedclinicaldemonstrationandepidemiology Clinical metagenomics and real-time RT–PCR investigationofthisAPMV-1caseinhumansandpro- posed a possible pigeon–human transmission. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was mechani- cally lysed and homogenized using FastPrep 24 5G instrument (MP Biomedicals, USA). The lysate was Methods separated into two aliquots and processed for DNA andRNAextraction,thanlibrarypreparationthrough Clinical data and sample collection DNA/cDNA fragmentation, end-repair and A tailing, Thepatientwasadmittedtothedepartmentofrespir- adaptorligationandindexing,andPCRamplification. atory and critical care medicine, Zibo municipal hos- The qualified libraries were quantified and sequenced pital, Shandong, China, for the diagnosis of on the Ion torrent S5 plus platform (ThermoFisher, “respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syn- USA) with 200bp of reads length. drome (ARDS), severe pneumonia” on Dec 26, 2020, Based on the APMV-1 matrix gene sequence 9daysposthisillnessonset(poi).Clinicalinformation assembled from clinical metagenomic sequencing examination, and treatment was exported from elec- NDV_M811_F: AGCGATGTACTCGGACCCTCTG, tronicmedicalrecords.Intensiveclinicalmicrobiology and NDV_M933_R: CAACCTGAGGGGAGG 970 X.ZOUETAL. Figure1.Timelineoftheclinicalcourseofthepatientandidentificationofthecausativepathogen. CATTTGCTA, to detect APMV-1 using the Quanti- After admission, he received mechanical venti- Fast SYBR Green RT–PCR Kit on the QuantStudio lation and anti-infection therapy with Imipenem/ 12K Flex Real-Time PCR System (Thermofisher, cilastatin sodium and moxifloxacin, plus ganciclovir USA). started on day 10 (Table 2). His condition kept progressing, and more lung involvement was on the chest radiograph at day 11 (Figure 2(B)). On Bioinformatic analysis day 16, 2021, the patient’s disease worsened with the reappeared fever of 38.6°C and progression on Clinicalmetagenomicsequencingreadswereanalyzed the chest scan (Figure 2(D)). The patient has a using the CLC Genomics Workbench version 11.1. Briefly, the reads were first trimmed to filter them meager count and proportion of lymphocytes during hospitalization. The fever continued till day with Phred score <20 and length <100bp. The qua- lified reads were then mapped to human reference 18, and no improvement was shown on the chest radiograph (Figure 2(E)); anti-infection therapy GRCh38 to remove host-origin reads, followed by de was then switched to vancomycin and micafungin novoassemblyandBLASTalignmentoftheassembled (Table 2). After bedside bronchoscopy examination, contigstotheNCBIntdatabase.BasedontheBLAST 2ml bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was sent results,wedownloadthehitwiththehighestscoreand to routine bacteria culture and clinical metagenomic the lowest E-value as reference for clean reads (non- next-generation sequencing (mNGS). On day 20, host reads) mapping. A consensus sequence was the concentrations of aspartate aminotransferase
