EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: apmv-, virus, pigeon, infection, patient, china, day, pigeons, etal, human, disease, infections, people, reads, figure


as usual, and no samples taurant to collect workplace environmental samples, were available for virus isolation or quantification. including sewage in the backyard and pigeon feathers inthepigeonhut,andthencametohishometocollect householdsamples,includingcatfaecesinthecatcage, Virus genome analysis waterinthedishforcat,waterinthefishtank,andbed- The assembled APMV-1 genome we assembled was sidesecretioncontaminant.Allthesampleswerenega- 15,013 nt long, with each site supported by at least 5 tive in the RT–PCR test for APMV-1 except that one readsandcoveredalltheORFregions.BLASTanalysis sample, the feather from the pigeon hut, was positive showed the virus had 99.21% identity to a pigeon for APMV-1 RNA with a threshold value of 23.05. strain isolated in eastern China (pigeon/Shanghai/ We further amplified a fragment of 535bp in the F 1024/2019). In the phylogenetic tree, the patient’s geneofthisvirus,anditssequenceshowed100%ident- virusclusteredwithagroupofpigeonvirusesisolated ifytothepatient’s APMV-1F gene.However,the sera in north China, including a strain isolated from the from the patient’s three companions, who claimed no same province in 2019 (Figure 4); the virus belonged contact with the pigeons, was negative for NDV to genotype VI.2.1.1.2.2, which mainly existed in the antibody. EMERGINGMICROBES&INFECTIONS 973 Figure3.Metagenomicanalysisofthecleanreadsafterhostsequenceswereremoved.(A)Thecompletegenomeofreference APMV-1strainpigeon/China/SDLC/2011wasfullycoveredby3,289readswithameandepthof31.2×.(B)taxaassignmentofthe cleanreadsusingMEGANsoftware.Taxaandthenumberoftheirassignedreadswerelabelledinthepolygenetictree.Thepie chartshowedAcinetobacterbaumanniicontributedthemostreads,followedbypigeonAPMV-1virus,amongthereadsofmicro- organismorigin. Discussion infection in patients after peripheral blood stem cells/bone marrow transplantation ; another ND is a worldwide poultry infectious disease-causing study reported fatal encephalitis caused by APMV- endemics in poultry farms in many regions . 1 in a child after haematopoietic stem-cell transplan- Sporadic ND outbreaks happen in China every tation. We reported APMV-1 infection in a per- year and mainly occur in chicken farms . son without underlying conditions and developed Human infection of APMV-1 was rare and usually fatal pneumonia. caused mild illness or asymptomatic infections in Most human infections of APMV-1 were immune-competent people . The most fre- through direct contact with a virus or infected quently reported symptoms included eye disorders birds; mostly, laboratory workers, vaccinators, , usually consisting of unilateral or bilateral red- workers in the chicken plant are at high risk of get- dening, oedema of the eyelids, conjunctivitis and ting an infection. Pedersden et al. reported signifi- sub-conjunctival haemorrhage; acute keratoconjunc- cantly higher antibody titre against APMV-1 in tivitis was reported in one case coinfected with people associated with poultry exposure . In avian Newcastle virus and human adenovirus ; our case, the patient had close contact with the these symptoms are usually transient and most can pigeon he processed; secondly, the pigeon carried recover without medical intervention. However, in APMV-1 with high titre in its feather collected on immune-compromised person, APMV-1 infection the hut,
