EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: apmv-, virus, pigeon, infection, patient, china, day, pigeons, etal, human, disease, infections, people, reads, figure


most can pigeon he processed; secondly, the pigeon carried recover without medical intervention. However, in APMV-1 with high titre in its feather collected on immune-compromised person, APMV-1 infection the hut, which showed 100% identify on the part can lead to a fatal outcome; two lethal cases of pneu- of the F gene to the patient’s virus; whole-genome monia were reported to be associated with APMV-1 974 X.ZOUETAL. Figure4.PhylogeneticclassificationoftheAPMV-1virususingthefull-lengthnucleotidesequenceofthefusiongene,according to the phylogenetic classification system suggested by Dimitrov et al. . The patient’s APMV-1 virus clustered with pigeon strainsisolatedinnorthChinaandbelongedtogenotypeVI.2.1.PigeonstrainsfromChinawerelabelledwithagreentriangle andthepatient’sAPMV-1strainwaslabelledwitharedcircle.Thecleavagesitesofthefusionproteinwerealignedforseveral strainsshowninthebottom-rightcorner,fromwhichmultiplebasicaminoacidswereobserved,indicatinghighvirulenceofthe patient’sstraintopoultry.Strainnameabbreviations:Human/NY,Avianparamyxovirus1fromthelethalhumancaseofpneumo- niareportedbyGoebel,etal.;Human/SD,APMV-1strainfromourcaseoccurredinShangdongprovinceinChina;pigeon/ 1344, pigeon/Qinghai/1344/2017; pigeon/TJ2017, pigeon/China/TJ201; Pigeon/190610, Pigeon/Shandong/190610-2/2019; Pigeon/3P3,Pigeon/Shandong/3P3/2018. sequence of the patient’s APMV-1 showed high infected. The reason he got infection was possible identify to pigeon strains and clustered with strains because of his close exposure to the high titre of circulating on the local pigeons by phylogenetic live APMV-1 virus when he butchered and pro- analysis. It is very likely that cross-species trans- cessed the infected pigeon. Moreover, the pigeon mission of APMV-1 happened between the pigeon APMV-1 strain in Goebel’s case induced pneumo- and human. In Goebel’s report, the APMV-1 strain nia in experimentally infected cynomolgus maca- isolated from the patient with lethal pneumonia was ques . As the patient had a delayed admission also of pigeon origin . The patient in our case to a professional hospital until day 9 poi and potent likely to be immune-competent when he was microbiology test, he may have missed the chance EMERGINGMICROBES&INFECTIONS 975 to detect causal agents or trigger microorganisms in which started on the third-day post-disease onset the early stage of his diseases. Moreover, multi- and persisted to his death. Depletion of lymphocytes drug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii was cultured was observed in many viral infections in humans from the patient’s blood and sputum, which may and served as a risk factor for diseases deterioration, contribute to the adverse outcome of the patient. including avian influenza virus H7N9 , influenza The potential of APMV-1 to cause severe respirat- viruspdmH1N1,andSARS-CoV-2;lympho- ory diseases in immune-competent person still penia may also indicate an adverse outcome of need more evidence. APMV-1 infection in humans. Generally, APMV-1 is not considered to be the mNGS offered the whole genome sequence of the cause of severe disease in humans and routinely, it is APMV-1virusrelatedtopatient’sdisease.Polygenetic notthetargetontheprescribeddiagnosistest.InGoe- analysis showed this strain belonged to genotype bel’s case and ours , intensive microbiology tests VI.2.1.1.2.2, a genotype circulating in the pigeons in
