EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: apmv-, virus, pigeon, infection, patient, china, day, pigeons, etal, human, disease, infections, people, reads, figure


humans and routinely, it is APMV-1virusrelatedtopatient’sdisease.Polygenetic notthetargetontheprescribeddiagnosistest.InGoe- analysis showed this strain belonged to genotype bel’s case and ours , intensive microbiology tests VI.2.1.1.2.2, a genotype circulating in the pigeons in were applied to detect tens of respiratory virus and north China (Figure 4). Many studies have shown bacteria pathogens but got no disease-causing agents. that multiple basic amino acids at the F0 cleavage Becauseoftheclearclinicalsignsofrespiratoryinfec- site means high virulence of APMV-1 to chicken tionthepatientshowed,suchasfeverandlymphope- ;however,thisisnotalwaysthecase:somepigeon nia which occurred in many severe viral infections paramyxovirustype1strainscauseminimaldiseasein , the patient’s BALF sample was applied to chicken despite their F proteins having a multiple mNGS test and reported a large amount of APMV-1 basic amino acid sequence ; the virulence of reads, which covered the whole genome of the virus pigeonparamyxovirustype1doesnotalwayscorrelate (Figure 3(A)). We further validated the mNGS result with the cleavage site of its F protein . We also by RT–PCR and antibody test. Besides APMV-1, the found this motif in the strain that caused our case, mNGS also detected ABA in the sample, consistent which means this virus has a virulence potential in with the culture result. mNGS here demonstrated its chickens. This motif was also presented in the capacity to precisely detecte rare pathogens in severe APMV-1straindetectedinthefeathersamplethrough cases when traditional methods failed. The ABA cul- RT–PCRofFgeneandSangersequencing.Thesedata tured in the BALF is multi-drug-resistant and help establish the transmission route of pigeons to appeared 11 days after ICU admission, which can be humans. Nevertheless, his 3 companions working in attributed to hospital-acquired infection and should the same kitchen showed no symptoms or antibodies not be the direct cause of the patient’s disease. Based against the virus, indicating human-to-human trans- and significant increase in WBC counts, neutrophil were temporarily reared in the backyard of the proportion, and the level of CRP and PCT in the kitchen, which is an open place and has good venti- blood test, the patient’s disease progression seemed lation; after feather plucking and evisceration here, to be a combined effect of PPMV-1 and multi-drug- the pigeon carcass was taken to the kitchen for cook- resistant ABA infection. ing.Thus,thepatientwastheonlystaffwhohadclose Lymphocytesarethemainimmunecellsthatelim- contact with the infected pigeon, which may explain inatethevirusinviralinfections.Inconventionalviral why only one person was infected. However, we can- infections,theproportionoflymphocytesinthewhite not exclude the possibility that host genetic traits blood cells usually increases at the acute phase of played a role in the patient’s susceptibility to infection.Uponviralinfections,theviruscomponents AMPV-1, such as the role of interferon-inducible
