EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: apmv-, virus, pigeon, infection, patient, china, day, pigeons, etal, human, disease, infections, people, reads, figure


possibility that host genetic traits blood cells usually increases at the acute phase of played a role in the patient’s susceptibility to infection.Uponviralinfections,theviruscomponents AMPV-1, such as the role of interferon-inducible arerecognizedbyhost-pathogenrecognitionreceptors transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) in the human (PPRs) and trigger the innate immune signalling that influenza virus infection . finally induces the productions of various cytokines, Our study had several limitations. First, the such as interferons (IFN), which could act directly patient’s family did not permit an autopsy, so we onCD8+Tcellsandincreasetheirabundanceduring have no autopsy specimens for histopathology or the virus infection . The increased lymphocytes, immunohistochemistry examinations to understand such as natural killer (NK) cells and cytotoxic T lym- viral pathogenesis and the pathological lesions we phocytes(CTLs),couldproducecytokinesandeffector were unable to expect the rare PPMV-1 infection in molecules to restrict viral replication and kill virus- this patient, so no serum in the early infection phase infectedcells.However,inthelatephaseofsevere was kept and thus cannot determine if there is a 4- viral infections such as COVID-19 and influenza fold increase in the antibody titres during the infec- , peripheral lymphocytopenia was observed, tions. Second, the pigeons were disposed before possibly due to redistribution and migration of lym- infected tissues could be sampled for virus isolation. phocytes to the respiratory system to resist the virus. Nevertheless, as we detected the complete genome The count and proportion of lymphocytes were sequences ofAPMV-1 in the patient’s BALF samples, quite low in the peripheral blood of our patient, adding APMV-1 sequence from feather, and the 976 X.ZOUETAL. patienthad100%nucleotideidentitybasedonFgene, Abdisa T, Tagesu T. Review on Newcastle disease of the pigeon might be the source of infection. poultry and its public health importance. J Vet Sci Technol.2017;8(3):441. In summary, this case of APMV-1 infection indi- Cox RM, Plemper RK. Structure and organization of cated that APMV-1 could be transmitted to humans paramyxovirus particles. Curr Opin Virol. through close contact with infected pigeons and 2017;24:105–114. caused fatal outcomes in people without underlying I.V. Taxonomy, Release. (2019). International com- conditions. The APMV-1-caused severe pneumonia mittee on taxonomy of viruses. [accessed 2018]. reported here is a rare event which challenges the PestkaD,StenzelT,KoncickiA.Occurrence,charac- clinical microbiology laboratory for accurate diagno- teristicsandcontrolofpigeonparamyxovirustype1in sis. mNGS facilitated this uncommon pathogen pigeons.PolJVetSci.2014;17(2):379–384. identification in our case and should be considered HeidenS,GrundC,HoperD,etal.Pigeonparamyx- in diagnosing severe infections of unknown origin. ovirus type 1 variants with polybasic F protein clea- However, how APMV-1 caused severe human infec- vage site but strikingly different
