Disorders of Sexual Development in Newborns
KEYWORDS: dsd, sex, testosterone, genitalia, development, androgen, patients, deficiency, normal, testicular, adrenal, disorders, production, female, virilization


INTRODUCTION In 2006, new nomenclature for conditions previously referred to as intersex was proposed in a consensus statement from the Lawson Wilkins Pediatric Endocrine Society and European Society of Pediatric Endocrinology in response to advanced identification of molecular genetic causes of sex. Disorders of sexual differentiation (DSD) are congenital conditions within which the development of chromosomal, gonadal and phenotypic sex is atypical. These disorders have a broad differential including variations in sex chromosomes, variations in genes involved in gonadal and genital development, disorders in steroidogenesis within the gonads and adrenals, maternal factors, and endocrine disruptors. Classification of these disorders is based on sex chromosomes as such 46XX DSD, 46XY DSD, Ovotesticular DSD, and 46XX testicular DSD. Approximately 1-2% of live births are affected with atypical genitalia, including isolated hypospadias in males. The incidence of 46XX DSD is 1:15,000. The incidence of 46XY DSD is higher at 1:5000. CLINICAL RECOGNITION Given the potential association with glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid deficiencies in CAH, the birth of a child with atypical genitalia constitutes a medical emergency requiring immediate evaluation. Further, the parents’ reaction to the birth of a child with atypical genitalia is one of shock and concern about which gender to assign, whether or not to decide for early genital surgery, and what to expect regarding the long-term outcome in terms of gender, sexual function, fertility, and general quality of life. In order to provide appropriate counseling to the family, there is an urgency to determine the etiology. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The phenotypic sex of a newborn is the result of external genital development that is under the influence of sex-determining genes as well as both endogenous and exogenous hormone exposures. The commitment of the bipotential primordial gonads to become testes or ovaries begins at 6 weeks and is fully achieved at 13-14 weeks. Gonadal differentiation is controlled by a number of time and dosage-sensitive genes including the SRY gene on the Y chromosome, SOX9, and WNT4 genes. The expression SRY and SOX9 and suppression of WNT4 expression is crucial to testicular differentiation. The expression of WNT4 in the absence of SRY and SOX9 expression allows for ovarian differentiation. Leydig cells produce insulin like factor 3 (INSL3) which is responsible for transabdominal phase of testicular descent. Fetal productions of androgens from the Leydig cells within the testes and from the adrenal glands begins at approximately 8-9 weeks. External genitalia develop concurrently around the 9 th
