Disorders of Sexual Development in Newborns
KEYWORDS: dsd, sex, testosterone, genitalia, development, androgen, patients, deficiency, normal, testicular, adrenal, disorders, production, female, virilization


descent. Fetal productions of androgens from the Leydig cells within the testes and from the adrenal glands begins at approximately 8-9 weeks. External genitalia develop concurrently around the 9 th week of gestation under the influence of androgens, mainly dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Testosterone is the principal hormone produced by the testes and is required for the onset of virilization and promotion of Wolffian ducts. Testosterone is converted to DHT by 5-alpha reductase. DHT leads to the development of the prostate, scrotum and phallus. Anti-Mullerian Hormone (AMH) produced from Sertoli cells in the testes is required to support the development of Wolffian ducts including vas deferens, epididymis and seminal tubules in males. In females, Mullerian ductal structures including the uterus, fallopian tubes and cervix develop in the absence of AMH. Disorders of Sexual Differentiation 46XX DSD Patients with 46XX DSD are genotypic females with virilized characteristics. In 46XX DSD, the degree of genital virilization can be classified into five Prader stages. Stage 1, with the mildest degree of virilization, is characterized by clitoromegaly without labial fusion. Stage 5, with the highest degree of virilization, is characterized by clitoromegaly with the urethral meatus at the tip, labial fusion, and scrotal-like appearance of the labia. 46XX DSD can result from exogenous androgen exposure, endogenous adrenal androgen production or placental aromatase deficiency. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is the most common cause of 46XX DSD. The most common enzyme defects leading to CAH are 21-hydroxylase deficiency and 11-hydroxylase deficiency. In a very rare form of CAH owing to p450 oxidoreductase deficiency, there is a mutation in the P450 oxidoreductase (POR) enzyme which causes partial deficiency of 21-hydroxylase and 17a-hydroxylase/17,20 lyase activities. Affected females can present with virilization of the external genitalia, glucocorticoid deficiency, and skeletal malformations such as craniosynostosis. Maternal hyperandrogenism during gestation can cause virilization of the external genitalia in females when the placental aromatase is overwhelmed. The hyperandrogenism can be due to luteomas, androgen producing tumors and exogenous exposure. Maternal aromatase deficiency leads to decreased production of estrogen from androgen precursors. This leads to conversion of fetal DHEAS to androstenedione and testosterone by placental 3-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and virilization of female fetus. The majority of 46XX testicular DSD cases are caused by translocation between the X and Y chromosome, involving the SRY gene. 46XY DSD Patients with 46XY DSD are genotypic males with under-virilization. Micropenis is defined as a penile length less than 2.5
