Disorders of Sexual Development in Newborns
KEYWORDS: dsd, sex, testosterone, genitalia, development, androgen, patients, deficiency, normal, testicular, adrenal, disorders, production, female, virilization


the X and Y chromosome, involving the SRY gene. 46XY DSD Patients with 46XY DSD are genotypic males with under-virilization. Micropenis is defined as a penile length less than 2.5 standard deviations below the mean penile length (<2.5 cm in a full-term newborn). The severity of hypospadias is based on the distance of the urethral opening from its normal position at the tip of the phallus. Lack of testicular palpation in the scrotum may signify cryptorchidism, vanishing testes, or gonadal dysgenesis. 46XY DSD can be caused by atypical testicular formation, low testosterone or dihydrotesterone production, or defects in the androgen receptor. In complete gonadal dysgenesis, there is no testicular development and patients present as phenotypic female with delayed puberty or amenorrhea. Up to 20% of these cases occur due to deletion or mutation of the SRY gene. Defects in androgen biosynthesis can lead to under-virilization in a 46XY patient. These defects can occur at various points along the production pathway of testosterone from cholesterol. Adrenal dysfunction is associated with defects in steroidogenic enzymes such as steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), p450 side chain cleavage enzyme, 3 beta HSD type 2, 17 alpha hydroxylase/17,20 lyase. Other defects of testosterone production can occur in the following enzymes: 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase causing Smith Lemli Opitz syndrome and 17 beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. Affected males with 5-alpha-reductase deficiency have atypical genitalia (small phallus and perineal hypospadias). With rises in testosterone at puberty, progressive virilization with phallic enlargement and testicular descent is seen. Androgen insensitivity syndrome has been reported to be the main cause of 46XY DSD and is due to mutation in the androgen receptor. In complete androgen insensitivity, the androgenic effects of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone are abolished and patients have unambiguously female appearing external genitalia. In partial androgen insensitivity, the androgenic effects are attenuated and patients can present on a spectrum of under-virilization. Mutations in genes responsible for sex determination such as SRY, SOX9, and SF1 lead to 46XY complete gonadal dysgenesis. Duplication of the DAX1 gene is associated with male to female sex reversal. Endocrine disruptors with anti-androgenic effects such as diethylstilbestrol or phthalates can also lead to atypical genitalia in males. Table 1. Laboratory Values to Differentiate Between Etiologies of Ambiguous Genitalia in Newborns with a 46, XY Chromosomal Complement. View in own window Diagnosis T DHT MIS Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (AIS) Normal/up Normal/up Normal 5α-Reductase Deficiency Normal/up Low Normal Testosterone Biosynthetic Defect
