Disorders of Sexual Development in Newborns
KEYWORDS: dsd, sex, testosterone, genitalia, development, androgen, patients, deficiency, normal, testicular, adrenal, disorders, production, female, virilization


Newborns with a 46, XY Chromosomal Complement. View in own window Diagnosis T DHT MIS Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (AIS) Normal/up Normal/up Normal 5α-Reductase Deficiency Normal/up Low Normal Testosterone Biosynthetic Defect orLeydig Cell Hypoplasia Low Low Normal Gonadal Dysgenesis Low Low Low T=testosterone, DHT=dihydrotestosterone and MIS=müllerian inhibiting substance. OVOTESICULAR DSD Ovotesticular DSD, one of the rarest forms of DSD, describes patients that were previously categorized as true hermaphrodites. The gonads of patients with ovotesticular DSD contain both ovarian and testicular tissue. Thus, the presentation of genital ambiguity can be variable. In ovotesticular DSD in which the gonads contain both ovarian and testicular tissue, the majority have an XX chromosomal constitution. Complex mosaicism (XX/XY) are seen in approximately 10% of cases. Patients can present with a wide variety of genital ambiguity as well as a mixture of Wolffian and Mullerian structures. DIAGNOSIS Determination of chromosomal sex by karyotype with FISH analysis for SRY and pelvic ultrasound to evaluate for the presence of a uterus should be performed immediately. Currently, the only newborn screening test for steroid disorders is the measurement of 17-hydroxyprogesterone for 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Further laboratory evaluation to accurately diagnose the specific underlying defect should be directed by a pediatric endocrinologist. If CAH is suspected, measurement of adrenal hormones, ACTH stimulation testing, and molecular genetic testing can elucidate the form of CAH. Each form of CAH has its own unique hormonal profile, consisting of elevated levels of precursors and elevated or diminished levels of adrenal steroid products. HCG stimulation testing to assess testosterone and dihydrotestosterone response may be particularly helpful in 46XY DSD to assess testicular androgen production. Molecular genetic evaluations should be guided by chromosomal and hormonal evaluations. Chromosomal sex can be determined prenatally invasively by chorionic villus sampling and amniocentesis and noninvasively via free fetal DNA in the maternal blood. Thus, DSD may be suspected in utero if the phenotype on prenatal ultrasonogram is discordant with the chromosomal sex. THERAPY When considering the gender of rearing, the prognosis for masculinization of brain and behavior, the anatomic and physiologic character of the reproductive tract with its potential for development and function in regard to both sexuality and fertility, and the social environment of the infant should be taken into account along with the genetic sex. Both male and female gender assignment should be thoroughly considered. Sex hormone replacement is needed to induce pubertal development. Testosterone is used in the treatment
