Disorders of Sexual Development in Newborns
KEYWORDS: dsd, sex, testosterone, genitalia, development, androgen, patients, deficiency, normal, testicular, adrenal, disorders, production, female, virilization


along with the genetic sex. Both male and female gender assignment should be thoroughly considered. Sex hormone replacement is needed to induce pubertal development. Testosterone is used in the treatment of patients with testosterone deficiency (46XY DSD). Different forms of testosterone (topical and intramuscular) are available and treatment will vary depending on what is best for the patient. A short course of testosterone can be given during infancy to induce penile growth prior to surgical correction. For 46XY DSD patients with functioning Sertoli cells, HCG can be used to stimulate testicular production. Estrogen is used in the treatment of those reared female. Estrogen is available as an oral tablet or transdermal patch. Estrogen doses should be initiated at the lowest dose possible and slowly increased to a maximum of 0.625 mg/day of conjugated estrogen to allow for gradual breast development. Progesterone supplementation with estrogen is recommended in patients with a uterus. Glucocorticoids are needed to treat congenital adrenal hyperplasia. They suppress the pituitary glands oversecretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone and thus decrease the production of precursor hormones. This also leads to a decrease in adrenal androgen production in forms of CAH associated with 46XX DSD. The aim of surgical repair in patients with atypical genitalia reared in the female gender is generally to remove the redundant erectile tissue, preserve the sexually sensitive glans clitoris, and provide a normal vaginal orifice. A medical indication for early surgery other than for sex assignment is recurrent urinary tract infections as a result of pooling of urine in the vagina or urogenital sinus. In the past, it was routine to recommend early corrective surgery for neonates born with ambiguous genitalia. However, in recent years, the implementation of early corrective surgery has become increasingly controversial due to lack of data on long-term functional outcome. It is advised that all surgical decisions remain the prerogative of families in conjunction with experienced surgical consultants. The process of assigning and accepting a gender of rearing for a child with ambiguous genitalia and of deciding the necessity of genital surgery is challenging. A team approach that combines the insights of the DSD-experienced pediatrician, endocrinologist, psychologist/psychiatrist, surgeon, and the child’s parents or guardian is essential. Although there is no consensus as to the appropriate age to disclose a condition, it is recommended to proceed gradually in line with the child’s cognitive and psychological development. GUIDELINES Audi L, Ahmed SF, Krone N,
