TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, bacterial, aureus, therapy, infections, mrsa, cfu, group, treatment, bacteria, antibiotics, phage therapy, cocktail, infection


al., 2019; Poirel et al., 2020; termsofmorphology,allknownphagesthatinfectS.aureusbelong Uyttebroek et al., 2022). Phage therapy is widely regarded as one totheorderCaudovirales,whichisalsoknownasthetailedphages ofthemostpromisingavenuesforcombattingpathogenicbacteria (Azam and Tanji, 2019). It is worth noting that in an update to ́ inhumans,includingdrug-resistantS.aureus(Alvarezetal.,2019). phage taxonomy by the ICTV in August 2022, the phage This paper reviews the biological characteristics of phages, the classification was modified, and the order Caudovirales was mechanisms and advantages of phage therapy, as well as the replaced by a new class called “Caudoviricetes.” (Turner research and application of phage therapy in the prevention and etal.,2023). management of drug-resistant S. aureus infections. We also Phagescanbeclassifiedintotwotypesbasedontheirdifferent investigate the challenges of phage therapy, explore promising modes of action on host bacteria (Sharp, 2001; Kutter and research directions and technological approaches, and envisage Sulakvelidze, 2004). The first type is the virulent phage or lytic the future of phage therapy. This endeavor is aimed at offering phage, which replicates and proliferates inside the host bacterial guidance and insight for the study and implementation of phage- cell.Eventually,itlysesthebacteria,releasingprogenyphages(Dion basedtreatmentfordrug-resistantS.aureusinfections. etal.,2020).Thevirulentphageattachestospecificreceptorsonthe bacterial surface and injects its genetic material into the host for replication. The resulting progeny phages cause bacterial lysis 2 Biological features and classification through holin and endolysins, leading to the termination of the of phages infection. These progeny phages are then released into the surrounding environment to initiate the killing process once Phages are viruses that infect bacteria (Clokie et al., 2011; again. Under normal circumstances, the second type of phage AbedonandMurray,2013;Isaevetal.,2021a;Isaevetal.,2021b). doesnotproduce progenyphagesorcausebacteriallysis.Instead, They consist of an outer protein shell and inner genetic material it integrates its genome into the host bacterial chromosome and composedofnucleicacids.Phageslackcompletecellularstructures transfers it to the progeny bacterium’s genome as the bacterium and exist as minute entities. Most of them can remain active in replicates and divides. This type of phage is referred to as a environmentswithapHrangeof5to9andutilizebacteria,ashosts temperate phage or a lysogenic phage (Rohwer and Segall, 2015; for their reproduction (Salmond and Fineran, 2015; Anand et al., Hamptonetal.,2020).Inthelysogeniccycle,phagegenome(known 2020;LiZ.etal.,2021).Bacteriophagesholdsignificantroleswithin asaprophage)replicateswithhostDNA,eitherintegratedintothe ecosystems,influencingthestructureanddevelopmentofbacterial host chromosome or in a free plasmid-like state, forming a long- communitiesintheirnaturalhabitats(Simmondsetal.,2017).Due term stable coexistence with the host . to their widespread presence and abundance, it is believed that Subsequently, when the bacterium replicates and divides, the phages are involved in approximately 20-40% of bacterial lysis phage genome is transferred to the genome of the progeny events(Chevallereauetal.,2022).Innaturalsettings,theevolution bacteria,whichisaccompaniedbyverticalgenetictransfer(Zhang of phages is, in turn, impacted by the density and diversity of et al., 2022). To date,
