TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, bacterial, aureus, therapy, infections, mrsa, cfu, group, treatment, bacteria, antibiotics, phage therapy, cocktail, infection


lysis phage genome is transferred to the genome of the progeny events(Chevallereauetal.,2022).Innaturalsettings,theevolution bacteria,whichisaccompaniedbyverticalgenetictransfer(Zhang of phages is, in turn, impacted by the density and diversity of et al., 2022). To date, phage lambda, is probably the most bacterialpopulations.Theabilityofphagestoinfectdifferenthosts, thoroughly studied and widely used temperate phage FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 03 frontiersin.org Liuetal. (Corteset al., 2021). Phage lambda can propagate for many intracellularmembraneorcellwallofthehostbacteria(Whiteetal., generations in the lysogenic cycle. The lytic-driving gene persists 2011; Drulis-Kawa et al., 2015). When the phage lytic cycle is in prophage, but it is inhibited. Under some stressors (such as completed and progeny phages mature within the bacterial cell, antibiotics), this lysogenic state will be induced and transformed holinforms poresinthebacterial inner membrane. Subsequently, into the lytic, which willlead to the lysis of the host (Zhou et al., endolysins pass through the inner membrane and act on the 2023).Furthermore,prophageinductionpromoteshorizontalgene bacterial cell wall’s peptidoglycan, causing the peptidoglycan transfer between bacteria and phages . linkagebonds ofthecellwalltobreak, leadingtoosmoticlysisof Prophages entering the lysis cycle will reprogram the host’s thebacteria.Thegrowthandlysisofbacteriabyvirulentphagescan metabolism, which will be beneficial to phage replication, affect be divided into four stages, as depicted in Figure 1: adsorption, the bacterial community structure through phage-mediated host penetration, biosynthesis, maturation, and release (Maciejewska death, promote horizontal gene transfer and promote etal.,2018). biogeochemicalcycle(Zhangetal.,2022). (1) Adsorption: Adsorption is the process of specific binding betweenphagesurfaceproteinsandreceptorsonthesurfaceofhost bacteria. The principal surface proteins consist of phage-encoded 3 Mechanism of phage action and polysaccharide depolymerases. These depolymerases are advantages of phage therapy responsible for targeting the polysaccharide elements present in the bacterial cell envelope, including the bacterial capsule, the Phagetherapytypicallyemploysvirulentphagestolysebacteria lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in Gram-negative bacteria, or the for the treatment of pathogenic bacterial infections. The lysis of extracellular matrix found within biofilms . bacteriabyvirulentphagescanbedividedintotwoprocessesbased Thisspecificitydependsonthecomplementarityoftheirmolecular on their genome types: single-stranded genome phages encode structures. Adsorption represents the initial and critical step in lysogenic effector molecules capable of inhibiting bacterial infection. Phages can adsorb to bacteria with specific receptors, peptidoglycan biosynthesis, while double-stranded DNA phages whether they are living or deceased. However, phage nucleic acid synthesize two proteins—holin and endolysins—that disrupt the cannot enter deceased host bacteria. (2) Penetration: After A B FIGURE1 Illustrationofthebacteriophagelifecycleandmechanismofbacteriallysis.(A)Lyticcycle,①Recognitionofhostbyphage;②Absorptionof bacteriophagetobacteria;③Phagepenetratesnucleicacid;④Replicationofphagenucleicacid;⑤Synthesisofphageelements;⑥Assemblyof progenyphages;⑦Bacteriallysisandreleaseofprogenyphages.(B)Roleofphageendolysininbacteriallysis:intheearlystageofphageinfection, thephagecreatesholesinthebacterialcellwallwiththeassistanceoftheVAPGHprotein(whichdegradesapartofpeptidoglycan)andinjects nucleicacidintothehostbacteria.Phageendolysinsandholinaresynthesizedduringthelatestageofprogenyphagereproduction.Holinforms poresinthebacterialinnermembrane,allowingendolysinstoreachthepeptidoglycan. FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 04 frontiersin.org Liuetal. adsorbingtothehostbacteria,tailedphagesdissolveasmallholein 4 Application of phage therapy against thehostbacteria’scellwallwiththeassistanceoflysozymeslocated drug-resistant S. aureus infection attheendoftheirtails.Virion-associatedpeptidoglycanhydrolases (VAPGH)areaclassoflysozymescommonlyfoundonthephage Bacteriophageshavebeenwidelyemployedinbothhumanand base plate. Their primary function is to locally degrade the animal research and treatment, with the NCBI database currently peptidoglycanlayerofthebacterialcellwall(GordilloAltamirano housing 69 preserved genomes of virulent S.
