TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, bacterial, aureus, therapy, infections, mrsa, cfu, group, treatment, bacteria, antibiotics, phage therapy, cocktail, infection


attheendoftheirtails.Virion-associatedpeptidoglycanhydrolases (VAPGH)areaclassoflysozymescommonlyfoundonthephage Bacteriophageshavebeenwidelyemployedinbothhumanand base plate. Their primary function is to locally degrade the animal research and treatment, with the NCBI database currently peptidoglycanlayerofthebacterialcellwall(GordilloAltamirano housing 69 preserved genomes of virulent S. aureus phages, Fernando and Barr Jeremy, 2019). Subsequently, through the including 26 Podoviridae phages and 43 Myoviridae phages contraction of the tail sheath, the nucleic acid contained in the . This section summarizes typical cases of phage’s head is injected into the bacterial cell, while the protein phage therapy for drug-resistant S. aureus infection, as further capsid remains outside the bacterial cell. (3) Biosynthesis: Once detailedinTable1. phage nucleic acid enters the bacterial cell, it initiates mRNA production through transcription and translates it into enzymes, regulatoryproteins,andstructuralproteinsrelatedtobiosynthesis. 4.1 In vitro experiments of phage therapy Simultaneously,itreplicatesasubstantialquantityofnucleicacids against drug-resistant S. aureus infection fortheprogenyphagesusingitsownnucleicacidasatemplate.(4) MaturationandRelease:Afterthesynthesisofproteinsandnucleic acids of the progeny phages within the bacterial cytoplasm, they Chan and Abedon initially proposed that treatment strategies assembleintofullymaturephages. couldbecategorizedbasedonthenumberofphagetypesemployed: Once the quantity of progeny phages attains a specific “monophage therapy” using a single phage type, and “polyphage threshold, holin creates openings in the bacterial inner therapy”involvingmultiplephagetypes(ChanandAbedon,2012). membrane. Subsequently, endolysins traverse the inner Titze et al (Titze and Krömker, 2020). utilized a phage mixture membrane and target the peptidoglycan within the bacterial cell (7.4×109PFU/mL)againstS.aureusisolate7142withnucgene- wall.Thisactionresultsinthecleavageofthepeptidoglycanlinkage positive, resulting in a reduction of bacterial colonies by 4.2 log 10 bondswithinthecellwall,leadingtoosmoticlysisofthebacteria, CFU/mL after 12 h. Liu et al. (2022) isolated four distinct thusliberatingtheprogenyphages.Thesereleasedphagescaninfect bacteriophages against drug-resistant S. aureus from various newhostbacteria,ultimatelyleadingtothelysisanddemiseofthe sources, namely nasal swabs, soil, and sheep feces: APTC-SA-2, hostbacteria. APTC-SA-4,APTC-SA-12,andAPTC-SA-13.Genomesequencing Incomparisontotraditionalantibiotics,phagetherapyoffers revealed that none of these bacteriophages contained virulence or several advantages. Firstly, there is an abundance and wide antibiotic resistance genes. Sensitivity testing demonstrated that a distribution of bacteriophages in nature, estimated at around 10 single phage was effective against 80%-95% of S. aureus isolates, (GuptaandSharma,2022)types(Comeauetal.,2008;Khanetal., including32clinicalMSSA,17MRSAisolates,and2ATCCstrains. 2022), allowing for rapid and cost-effective screening, unlike the In contrast, the phage cocktail APTC-C-SA01, comprising four development of new antibiotics. Secondly, phages exhibit a phages, exhibited sensitivity to over 98% of S. aureus isolates, remarkable level of specificity towards bacterial infections, displaying a strong complementary effect. Moreover, the selectivelytargetingtheinfectingbacteriawithoutharmingother frequency of phage-resistant mutants decreased from 0.12~0.21 × bacterial species, unlike broad-spectrum antibiotics that can 10 –7to0.9×10 –9. disrupt the balance of microbial flora (Langdon et al., 2016; Studies have revealed that phages can reduce the minimal Gordillo Altamirano Fernando and Barr Jeremy, 2019). Thirdly, inhibitory concentration (MIC) of certain antibiotics and can
