TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, bacterial, aureus, therapy, infections, mrsa, cfu, group, treatment, bacteria, antibiotics, phage therapy, cocktail, infection


comparedwith 20mLinadouble- amoxicillinand antibiotics,andhigh Staphylococcusspp,etcclinicalisolate patients,urinary Pyophagecocktail blindmannertwice —— intravesicaltitration clavulanicacid(1g tolerabilityand (Leitneretal.,2021) tractinfections dailyfor7days twicedailyorally), safety.However, orciprofloxacin(500 superiorityof mgtwice bacteriophagesover dailyorally) placebowas notobserved. MSSA,Methicillin-sensitiveStaphylococcusaureus;MRSA,Methicillin-resistantStaphylococcusaureus;PFU,Plaque-formingunit;MOI,Multiplicityofinfection. FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology frontiersin.org Liuetal. Liuetal. microenvironment.Priorstudieshavedemonstratedtheefficacyof manufacturing practice (CGMP) standards and had undergone vitro.Forinstance,Kebriaeietal.(2022)combinedphageSb-1with etal.,2020).Resultsindicatedthatonthefourthdayoftreatment, daptomycin, resulting in a 2 log CFU/mL reduction in MRSA the bacterial load in the phage treatment group and vancomycin biofilm colony counts compared to the use of a single antibiotic. treatment group had decreased by approximately 3.3 log CFU/ Similarly, Simon et al. (2021) demonstrated synergistic effects swabcomparedtothenormalsalinecontrolgroup.Onthethirdday between phage Sb-1 and oxacillin. Phage Sb-1 alone reduced aftertreatment,comparedtothenormalsaline controlgroup,the MRSA levels by 35%, whereas in combination with oxacillin, it bacterial load in the phage treatment group and vancomycin reduced MRSA levels by approximately 90%. Likewise, Joo et al. treatment group had decreased by approximately 8 log CFU/ (2023)confirmedthatthecombinedapplicationofvancomycinand swab and 3.3 log CFU/swab, respectively. Additionally, bacteriophage K, compared with vancomycin or bacteriophage K Laboratory et al. found that combining AB-SA01 with alone, reduced MRSA in biofilm to less than 2 log CFU/mL, vancomycin exhibited a synergistic effect, enhancing the indicatingsignificantsynergy. elimination of MRSA and preventing the development of phage resistance(Kebriaeietal.,2020b). Different routes of administration also impact the therapeutic 4.2 Animal experiments of phage therapy effectiveness of phages. In a mouse model infected with SA003, against drug-resistant S. aureus infection Fujikietal.(2022)administeredphageFSA012(GenBankdatabase accession number NC_023573.1) intraperitoneally and InastudyconductedbyTengFeietal.(Tengetal.,2022)using intravenously. This improved the survival rate of mice from 20% amousemodel,aphagetreatmentgroup(withaconcentrationof1 to75%and40%,respectively.Notably,FSA012exhibitedabroad- × 108 PFU/mL) and a ceftiofur sodium treatment group (with a spectrum host range similar to Staphylococcus phage K, forming dosage of 5 mg/kg) were compared. The results showed that the plaques in 94.4% (33/35) of animal-associated MRSA and MSSA phage therapy group reduced the number of drug-resistant S. strains and 60.0% (24/40) of human-associated MRSA strains. aureus in the mammary glands by 8 log CFU/g, while the Furthermore, pharmacokinetic studies revealed that phage antibiotic group reduced it by 4 log CFU/g. Notably, the phage FSA012 was detected in the liver, lung, and intestine of mice therapygroupexhibitedamoreeffectivereductionindrug-resistant without inducing any inflammatory reactions or potential side S. aureus compared to the antibiotic group. Additionally, the effectsintheorgansofmice. concentrationsoftumornecrosisfactor(TNF-a)andinterleukin- However, as an active preparation, bacteriophages exhibit low 6(IL-6)inthetreatmentgroupsdecreasedsignificantly,especially stability and long-term effectiveness at the infection site (Guerin inthephagetreatmentgroup.Thisindicatesthatphagetreatment and Hill, 2020; Bichet et al., 2021), which somewhat limits their can more effectively reduce the inflammatory response in mouse efficacy against infections. One strategy to protect
