TYPEReview
KEYWORDS: phage, phages, bacterial, aureus, therapy, infections, mrsa, cfu, group, treatment, bacteria, antibiotics, phage therapy, cocktail, infection


the decrease in bacteriophage activity and Kifelew et al. (2020) employed the phage cocktail AB-SA01 to initial titer in the wound. It increases the time the bacteriophage treat multidrug-resistant S. aureus wound infections in diabetic functionsattheinfectionsite,therebyacceleratingwoundhealing mice. This cocktail was produced according to current good inmice. FrontiersinCellularandInfectionMicrobiology 09 frontiersin.org Liuetal. aureus-induced fracture-related infections in a rabbit model by threephagecocktailpreparations(PP1493,PP1815,andPP1957)at loadingphagesontohydrogel.Initially,allanimalsinthetreatment a final concentration of 109 PFU/mL, which were subsequently groups (Groups 3–5) received subcutaneous nafcillin (40 mg/kg, injecteddirectlyintothejointspost-DAIRsurgeryandjointclosure. fourtimesdaily)andoralrifampicin(40mg/kg,twicedaily)for7 Thistreatmentwasfollowedbycombinedantibiotictherapyfor6to days post-infection. Subsequently, Group 3 received phage 12weeks,alongwithsuppressiveantibiotictreatment(SAT).After injections (1 mL, 108 PFU/mL in normal saline, twice daily), follow-upsat7,11,and30months,twopatientsexhibitedonlymild Group 4 underwent a single topical application of phage-loaded synovialfluiddischargeandlimitedsynovialinflammation,withno hydrogel (800 µL, 109 PFU/mL), while Group 5 maintained the persistent or recurrent bacterial infections. Moreover, their C- eradicated in 2 animals in Group 3, 1 animal in Group 4, and all as pain-free ambulation, significantly improved. Similarly, in decreased from 2 × 106 CFU to approximately 105 CFU. Sanchezetal.(2021)successfullycureda61-year-oldfemalepatient However, there was no statistically significant difference in using sequential intra-articular infusions of phage cocktail AB- bacterial loads between the treatment groups. Notably, the SA01 and a single lytic phage, SaGR51ø1. Initially, after several production of phage-neutralizing antibodies significantly impacts courses of intravenous cefazolin injections, oral rifampicin and phage efficacy . In this study, phage- amoxicillin administration, the patient’s knee joint infection neutralizing antibodies were only detected in the plasma of persisted. Phage therapy was then attempted, beginning with rabbitsfromGroup3,notinGroup4orGroup5,suggestingthat intravenous infusions of phage cocktail AB-SA01 (once every 12 the hydrogel vehicle effectively reduces phage-neutralizing hfor2weeks)andcefazolin(onceevery8hfor6weeks).During antibodyproduction. this treatment, bacterial cultures from the patient’s blood and Additionally, Kalelkar et al. (2022) developed porous particles synovial fluid returned negative results, and her pain subsided. from degradable poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) and However, the unavailability of further phage cocktail AB-SA01 successfully delivered a phage cocktail to the lungs of mice, products led to the cessation of phage therapy after two weeks, effectively reducing MRSA-induced lung infections. Results resulting in knee pain recurrence and positive S. aureus clinical indicated that compared to the control group of mice infected isolate (MSSA) cultures five days later. Subsequently, during the withMRSA,thebacterialloadsintheporousparticlevehiclegroup secondtreatmentcycle,10mLofphagesolutionSaGR51ø1(2.89× remained largely unchanged, indicating the vehicle had no 1010 PFU/mL) was aseptically injected into the joint cavity (once antibacterial effect. The free phage cocktail group exhibited a every 12 h for 6 weeks), accompanied by intravenous cefazolin reduction of approximately 1 log CFU/mg, while the porous
