CASE REPORT Available from:
KEYWORDS: purpura, vasculitis, iga, iga vasculitis, doi, gastrointestinal, henoch-, henoch- purpura, children, cases, abdominal, case, involvement, severe, cdi


DOI: Immunoglobulin A Vasculitis Complicated with Clostridium difficile Infection: a Rare Case Report and Brief Review of the Literature Camelia Cojocariu1,2, Carol Stanciu2, Codrina Ancuta1,3, Mihai Danciu1,2, Stefan Chiriac1, Anca Trifan1,2 1) Gr. T. Popa University of ABSTRACT Medicine and Pharmacy, 2) St. Spiridon Emergency Immunoglobulin A (IgA) vasculitis, formerly called Henoch-Schönlein purpura, is a leukocytoclastic type Gastroenterology and the classic tetrad of nonthrombocytopenic palpable purpura, arthralgia (or arthritis), and gastrointestinal Hepatology, and and renal involvement. Although the cause of the disease remains unknown, immune complexes of IgA Iasi, Romania presence of purpura, but may be challenging in its absence, especially when colicky abdominal pain precedes the cutaneous lesions. IgA vasculitis is usually a self-limited disease with a benign course and symptomatic treatment is sufficient for most; in severe cases, however, corticosteroids are necessary. We describe the case of a young adult male presenting with severe abdominal pain, vomiting and fever (38.4ºC). Address for correspondence: occurrence of arthralgia involving both knees and erosive duodenitis at endoscopy, 48 hours upon admission, Prof. Carol Stanciu suggested the diagnosis of IgA vasculitis, confirmed on the following day by the presence of typical purpuric St. Spiridon Emergency rash on the lower extremities. Corticosteroid therapy led to the resolution of all gastrointestinal and joint Hepatology, difficile infection (CDI) was confirmed. The treatment with metronidazole led to the resolution of diarrhea. Iasi, Romania The peculiarity of this case resides in several aspects: the gastrointestinal and joint manifestations preceded purpura, making diagnosis more difficult; CDI is an extremely rare complication of IgA vasculitis, being, in fact, the second case reported in adults in the literature. Key words: Henoch-Schönlein purpura – IgA vasculitis – Clostridium difficile – gastrointestinal involvement. Received: 08.02.2016 Abbreviations: CDI: Clostridium difficile infection; CRP: C-reactive protein; EGD: esophagogastroduodenoscopy; Accepted: 02.03.2016 ESR: erythrocyte sedimentation rate; IgA: immunoglobulin A; WBC: white blood cell. INTRODUCTION vasculitis was chosen to replace the eponym Henoch-Schönlein purpura by the 2012 revised Chapel Hill International Immunoglobulin A (IgA) Consensus Conference for Nomenclature of Vasculitides . It vasculitis, formerly known as relates to the IgA1-dominant immune deposits affecting small Henoch-Schönlein purpura, vessels and typically involving skin, joints, gastrointestinal tract is a nongranulomatous and kidneys. The cause and pathogenesis are still unknown, immunoglobulin A-mediated although precipitating factors such as drug intake and/or complex small-vessels vasculitis, upper respiratory tract infections have been associated with clinically characterized the development of IgA vasculitis . Some studies suggested
