CASE REPORT Available from:
KEYWORDS: purpura, vasculitis, iga, iga vasculitis, doi, gastrointestinal, henoch-, henoch- purpura, children, cases, abdominal, case, involvement, severe, cdi


although precipitating factors such as drug intake and/or complex small-vessels vasculitis, upper respiratory tract infections have been associated with clinically characterized the development of IgA vasculitis . Some studies suggested by the classic tetrad of that glycosylation of the hinge region of IgA1 is involved in nonthrombocytopenic palpable the pathogenesis of the disease . purpura, arthralgia (or arthritis), IgA vasculitis is commonly seen in children and very and gastrointestinal and renal rarely in adults, the annual incidence varying greatly, from involvement. The term IgA [DATE],000 in children to 0.8-1.8/100,000 in adults . J Gastrointestin Liver Dis, June 2016 Vol. 25 No 2: 235-238 236 Cojocariu et al more severe in adults as compared to children . lab tests, including hematologic, liver and renal function tests, made in the presence of skin purpura, turning more normal limits. Urinalysis showed microscopic hematuria [25 difficult when the onset is accompanied by gastrointestinal erythrocytes/HPF (<5/HPF)]. Plain abdominal radiograph manifestations, without cutaneous purpuric rash . On showed no signs of bowel obstruction, and abdominal esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), the second part of the ultrasound excluded an intussusception. duodenum is most frequently and severely involved, and the The patient was admitted to our institution where, presence of erosive duodenitis is helpful for diagnosing IgA the following day, he had diarrhea streaked with blood. vasculitis in patients without pathognomonic skin purpura. Sigmoidoscopy showed redness of the mucosa and petechiae, On histopathology there is leukocytoclastic vasculitis with IgA- and stool testing for Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) toxins immune deposits in the walls of the small vessels (capillaries, A and B was negative. On the 3rd day of hospitalisation, the arterioles, venules) on immunofluorescence staining. IgA patient complained of arthralgia in both knees, and a repeated vasculitis is usually a self-limited disease; the treatment is set of laboratory tests showed a huge increase in the number of often symptomatic, although, in rare (and severe) cases, WBC (36,400 cells/μL) with 89% neutrophils, as well as elevated corticosteroids are necessary. ESR (54 mm/h) and CRP level (9.61 mg/dL). Abdominal pain, IgA vasculitis complicated by Clostridium difficile infection aggravated by meals, continued to worsen despite symptomatic (CDI) is extremely rare. To our knowledge, so far, there are therapy, and the patient accepted to undergo an EGD, which only four cases in children and one in an adult published in showed severe erosive duodenitis (Fig.1A). Based on joint the literature [9-12]. This makes our case
