CASE REPORT Available from:
KEYWORDS: purpura, vasculitis, iga, iga vasculitis, doi, gastrointestinal, henoch-, henoch- purpura, children, cases, abdominal, case, involvement, severe, cdi


an EGD, which only four cases in children and one in an adult published in showed severe erosive duodenitis (Fig.1A). Based on joint the literature [9-12]. This makes our case the second of its type and gastrointestinal symptoms, IgA vasculitis was clinically (in an adult with IgA vasculitis complicated by CDI) reported suspected and confirmed a day after (4th day of hospitalisation) in the literature. by the occurrence of a purpuric rash on the lower extremities We will review the currently existing data on the (Fig. 2). epidemiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis and treatment of IgA The patient received intravenous methylprednisolone vasculitis and discuss the risk factors of CDI development in (125 mg/day), which determined a spectacular resolution of patients with this condition. abdominal pain and arthralgias within 48 hours, as well as a great improvement in laboratory results. Intravenous corticosteroid CASE PRESENTATION therapy was replaced by oral prednisone with a gradual reduction in dosage. However, the 3rd week of treatment was marked by with severe intermittent diffuse abdominal pain, vomiting and difficile confirmed the presence of toxins A and B. Treatment with fever (38.4°C). Two weeks before, he had had a sore throat, for metronidazole (500 mg x 3/day for 10 days) led to the resolution the abdomen was distended and tender, without guarding, and normal duodenal mucosa (Fig. 1B), all laboratory tests were no skin rash. Laboratory analyses (normal ranges between parentheses) showed the following: leucocytosis with white DISCUSSION blood cell (WBC) count of 18,450 cells/μL (4,000-10,000 cells/μL) and 81% neutrophils (45-80%); elevated erythrocyte We hereby report a case of IgA vasculitis in a young adult, sedimentation rate (ESR) 39 mm/h (1-13 mm/h) and C-reactive characterized by some peculiarities such as the onset of the Fig. 1. Endoscopic appearance of the second part of the duodenum: A) (before treatment): multiple erosions, diffuse redness, submucosal hemorrhage, petechiae, small ulcerations; B) (after treatment): significant improvement of endoscopic appearance J Gastrointestin Liver Dis, June 2016 Vol. 25 No 2: 235-238 IgA vasculitis complicated with Clostridium difficile infection 237 Differential diagnosis includes Crohn’s disease (there is no palpable purpura), IgA nephropathy (no palpable purpura), and hypersensitivity vasculitis (absence of IgA deposition). Skin lesions are the most common presentation and include nonthrombocytopenic rash, which evolves from erythema to papules, then to nonblanching palpable purpura with petechiae and ecchymosis. Purpura is the presenting symptom in half of the cases, often with symmetrical distribution, localized on the
