CASE REPORT Available from:
KEYWORDS: purpura, vasculitis, iga, iga vasculitis, doi, gastrointestinal, henoch-, henoch- purpura, children, cases, abdominal, case, involvement, severe, cdi


from erythema to papules, then to nonblanching palpable purpura with petechiae and ecchymosis. Purpura is the presenting symptom in half of the cases, often with symmetrical distribution, localized on the lower extremities, frequently around the ankles and buttocks, but it can also involve the upper extremities. Gastrointestinal involvement occurs in about 2/3 of cases. Abdominal colicky pain worsened by meals is frequent and often associated with nausea, vomiting, and gastrointestinal bleeding (hematemesis or melena). Symptoms are caused Fig. 2. Palpable purpura on both ankles. by bowel ischemia and edema, and in very few cases, serious complications such as perforation, infarction or intussusceptions may occur . On upper gastrointestinal disease with gastrointestinal and joint manifestations prior to endoscopy, the most important finding is severe erosive the occurrence of skin purpura, complicated by CDI during duodenitis (in the second part of the duodenum), characteristic, corticosteroid therapy. To the best of our knowledge, this is the but not pathognomonic for IgA vasculitis . Other second published case of IgA vasculitis complicated by CDI endoscopic findings include erythema, petechiae, ulcers, and in adults. Upon a thorough search, we found only five cases ecchymotic lesions seen in the gastric antrum, second portion reported so far: four children [9-11] and one adult . The of the duodenum, ileum, and colon. On CT imaging, bowel authors suggested that antibiotic therapy, intestinal lesions involvement is seen as a circumferential, regular, symmetrical (mucosal ischemia) caused by IgA vasculitis and corticosteroid wall thickening with target appearance (however, the target sign therapy could have led to a change in intestinal microbiota and, is not specific for vasculitis) with engorgement of mesenteric consequently, to overgrowth of C. difficile, increasing the risk of vessels. In 10% of cases, gastrointestinal manifestations precede CDI. The use of antibiotic therapy remains the most important skin purpura and, in such cases, a differential diagnosis should risk factor for the development of CDI . Our patient received be made with other causes of acute abdomen . At the antibiotics (amoxicillin) for a pharyngitis, prescribed by his disease onset, our patient experienced severe abdominal pain, of corticosteroid therapy, which may have played a key role in Joint involvement (arthralgia, arthritis) is present in the developing of CDI. 2/3 of the patients, more often in adults than in children. Formerly called Henoch-Schönlein purpura, IgA vasculitis Typically, it involves the knees and ankles, and is symmetrical is a self-limited systemic, nongranulomatous,
