CASE REPORT Available from:
KEYWORDS: purpura, vasculitis, iga, iga vasculitis, doi, gastrointestinal, henoch-, henoch- purpura, children, cases, abdominal, case, involvement, severe, cdi


the patients, more often in adults than in children. Formerly called Henoch-Schönlein purpura, IgA vasculitis Typically, it involves the knees and ankles, and is symmetrical is a self-limited systemic, nongranulomatous, immunoglobulin in distribution. A-mediated complex small-vessel vasculitis, with multiorgan Renal involvement is found in 40-50% of patients, ranging involvement. The etiology of the disease remains unknown, but from microscopic hematuria (the earliest and most common it was often associated with previous bacterial or viral infections symptom) to progressive glomerulonephritis. Proteinuria is (most frequently upper respiratory infections), medication, often associated to hematuria. Renal failure is rare in children, tumors, hematological malignancies, and vaccinations . while it may be present in about 30% of adult cases . The exaggerated immune response to the above mentioned Treatment is often symptomatic because the disease is triggering factors leads to IgA1 and C3 immune complex self-limited and has a benign course. Oral corticosteroid deposition in small vessels (arterioles, venules, capillaries) therapy is indicated in patients with severe joint, rash, as well of the skin, joints, gastrointestinal tract and kidneys . as gastrointestinal and renal involvement . If no benefit is IgA vasculitis is common in children, and very rare in adults. obtained from corticosteroid therapy alone, immunosuppressive Childhood disease and adult disease differ. In children, the IgA drugs (such as cyclosporine A, cyclophosphamide, and vasculitis is generally benign and self-limited, while in adults, mycophenolate mofetil) are recommended and may be useful severe gastrointestinal, renal, and joint involvement . Other agents (dapsone, rituximab) have also been shown to patient presenting with the classic tetrad of nonthrombocytopenic purpura, joint, gastrointestinal, and renal involvement. CONCLUSION However, when the presentation is with atypical features, tissue biopsy is helpful, showing leukocytoclastic vasculitis We present a very rare case of IgA vasculitis complicated (the presence of granulocytes in walls of small vessels) with by CDI. The latter may have been caused by the changes in gut IgA deposition on immunofluorescence . There are several microbiota induced by antibiotic therapy administered prior diagnostic criteria proposed by the European League Against to hospital admission and the corticosteroids administered Rheumatism (EuLAR), Pediatric Rheumatology Society for the treatment of the IgA vasculitis. Not only is this the J Gastrointestin Liver Dis, June 2016 Vol. 25 No 2: 235-238 238 Cojocariu et al the gastrointestinal and joints, manifestations occurring several 11. Alsaied T, Weber J, George A, Villegas M, Vossmeyer TM. An adolescent days before skin
