BritishJournalofPharmacology(2008)155,1195–1203
KEYWORDS: receptors, efs, tachykinin, receptor, muscle, cholinergic, contractions, mouse, senktide, strips, control, intestine, tachykinin receptors, muscle strips, nkb


and extensive NK receptor Universiteitsplein1,B-2610Antwerp,Belgium. immunoreactivity in the small intestine, mainly in myen- E-mail: tericandsubmucosalneuronsandonthesurfaceofsmooth Received 19 May 2008; revised 25 July 2008; accepted 12 August 2008; publishedonline22September2008 muscle cells (Vannucchi and Faussone-Pellegrini, 2000). In NK receptorsandcholinergicneurotransmission 1196 JGDeManetal the guinea-pig and rat intestine, tachykinin NK receptors withKrebs–Ringersolutionandopenedlongitudinallyalong appear to be located mainly on intrinsic sensory nerves themesentericborder.Themucosawasremovedandmuscle (Mann et al., 1997; Jenkinson et al., 1999) where they strips were cut in the longitudinal direction. A silk thread mediateafferenttachykininsignalling.Functionalstudieson wasattachedattheupperandlowerendofthemusclestrips guinea-pig intestinal preparations with intact intrinsic after which they were mounted in organ baths (volume afferent nerve signalling showed that tachykinin NK 5mL) filled with Krebs–Ringer solution (371C, aerated with receptors on intrinsic primary afferent neurons modulate 5%CO /95%O ).Themusclestripsintheorganbathswere 2 2 slow synaptic transmission at nicotinic synapses (Johnson positioned between two platinum ring electrodes (diameter et al., 1996, 1998; Alex et al., 2001). In the guinea pig, of rings: 5mm) for electrical stimulation of the tissues. The contractility studies on isolated intestinal muscle strips, in lower end of the muscle strip was fixed and the other end whichthesensorynervenetworkisgenerallydisrupted,have connectedtoastraingaugetransducer(Scaimetransducers, shownthatactivationoftachykininNK receptorsinducesa Annemasse, France) for the recording of isometric tension. contraction that is mediated by acetylcholine and by Thestripswerestretchedtooptimallength–tensionrelation- tachykinins released from enteric nerves (Yau and Youther, ship as described previously (De Man et al., 2001, 2003). 1982; Jacoby et al., 1986; Guard and Watson, 1987; Guard Briefly, strips were contracted with carbachol (0.1mM) and etal.,1988;Yauetal.,1992;Patacchinietal.,1995).Thisisin the amplitude of the contraction was recorded. Carbachol agreement with the finding that intrinsic primary afferent was washed out of the organ bath and when tension neurons with immunoreactivity for tachykinin NK recep- returned to baseline, the strips were stretched (increment tors are also choline acetyl transferase immunoreactive of 2.5mN). After stabilization of the muscle strip tension, (Mannetal.,1999). 0.1mMcarbacholwas addedagain andtheamplitude of the Overall, these results suggest an important modulatory contractionwasrecorded.Thisprocedurewasrepeateduntil rolefortachykininNK receptorsinintrinsicneuro-neuronal the amplitude of the contraction to carbachol reached a entericsignalling.However,studiesonthefunctionalroleof maximum. This point was taken as the optimal length– NK receptors in enteric neurotransmission were almost tension. The tissues were then allowed to equilibrate for exclusively conducted in intestinal preparations from the 60min before starting the experimentation. During the guinea pig. It is not clear whether similar NK receptor- equilibration period, the preparations were washed every mediated modulatory mechanisms are also operational 15minwithfreshKrebs–Ringersolution. in the intestine of other species. We previously provided evidence that tachykinin NK , NK and NK receptors
