Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


ABSTRACT Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its metabolite DHEA sulfate (DHEAS), are steroid pre-hormones synthesized and secreted primarily by the zona reticularis of the adrenal cortex in response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). They are both precursor hormones that may be transformed into weak androgens or estrogens. During the last decades, several epidemiologic and cohort studies have shown the age-related circulating levels of DHEA/DHEAS; these first increase in childhood, a process called “adrenarche”, peak in the 3 rd decade of life, and progressively decrease in midlife, a phenomenon called “adrenopause”. Some authors have linked obesity in childhood with early adrenarche, i.e., increased circulating levels of adrenal androgens; others have associated low levels in late life with increased frailty and all-cause mortality. The potential clinical and therapeutic roles of DHEA/DHEAS have been studied extensively, but the data remain controversial and largely inconclusive. In this chapter, we provide an overview of the physiology and pathophysiology of adrenal androgen synthesis, secretion, and action and present current evidence regarding their efficacy in the management of adrenal insufficiency or aging-related disorders. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its metabolite DHEA sulfate (DHEAS), are steroid hormones synthesized and secreted primarily by the zona reticularis of the adrenal cortex in response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). They exert weak androgenic effects and are therefore considered precursor hormones that need to be transformed to potent androgens or estrogens to exert their effects. The potential clinical roles of DHEA/DHEAS have been studied extensively, as previous epidemiologic and prospective studies associated the age-related decrease of DHEA/DHEAS levels with higher prevalence of degenerative disorders and increased frailty and mortality from all causes in the elderly, attributing to adrenal androgens anti-aging properties. But do they really suggest that they are hormones related to longevity or just another pointless alchemy against aging? This chapter summarizes the physiology and pathophysiology of adrenal androgen synthesis, secretion, and action and provides current evidence regarding their efficacy in the management of aging-related disorders. THE ADRENAL ANDROGENS The Adrenal Cortex; Embryology and Normal Structure The adrenal cortex is derived from the mesoderm lining the posterior abdominal wall. The fetal cortex begins its development in the 5-week-old fetus. At 2 months of gestation, it is already identifiable as a separate organ and is composed of the inner fetal zone (85% of the cortex) and the outer permanent definitive
