Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


At 2 months of gestation, it is already identifiable as a separate organ and is composed of the inner fetal zone (85% of the cortex) and the outer permanent definitive zone. The anatomic relation of the fetal and definitive zones is maintained during gestation; at birth the adrenal glands are 10–20 times larger than the adult gland, relative to kilograms of body weight. After birth, the fetal zone undergoes rapid involution resulting in a rapid decrease of adrenocortical weight in the 3 months following birth. During the next 3 years, the adult adrenal cortex develops from cells of the outer layer of the cortex and differentiates into the three adult zones, the subcapsular zona glomerulosa, the zona fasciculate, which is the thickest zone (70% of the cortex), and the inner zona reticularis. Biosynthesis of Adrenal Androgens The adrenal cortex produces many steroid hormones among which the major ones are cortisol, aldosterone, and the adrenal androgens. The subcapsular zona glomerulosa produces aldosterone while the inner two zones fasciculata and reticularis appear to function as a unit and produce cortisol, androgens, and small amounts of estrogens under the regulatory effect of ACTH and maybe of some other factors produced within the adrenal gland, including neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, and nitric oxide. The biosynthetic pathway of the adrenal androgens is shown below ( Fig. 1 ). Figure 1. Steroid biosynthesis in the adrenal cortex. Quantitatively, the most abundantly produced adrenal androgens are dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulphated form dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS); the latter is the most abundantly produced adrenal steroid. It also has a long half-life and provides a stable pool of circulating DHEA. The ovaries also synthesize DHEA; however, they lack the enzyme DHEA-sulphotransferase so that DHEAS is almost exclusively synthesized and secreted by the adrenals. DHEA is further metabolized to androstenedione ( 1 , 2 ), which may in turn be aromatized to estrone. Whether the adrenals may also produce small amounts of testosterone by further metabolism of androstenedione is controversial ( 3 ). Although DHEA and DHEAS are secreted in greater quantities, androstenedione is qualitatively more important since it is more readily converted to testosterone in peripheral tissues. Roughly, the relative androgenic potency of DHEA, androstenedione, testosterone, and dihydrotestosterone (DHT) are 5:10:100:300, respectively. As ACTH is the main regulator of adrenal androgen production in adults, both DHEA and androstenedione exhibit circadian periodicity in concert with ACTH and cortisol and their plasma concentrations
