Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


respectively. As ACTH is the main regulator of adrenal androgen production in adults, both DHEA and androstenedione exhibit circadian periodicity in concert with ACTH and cortisol and their plasma concentrations increase rapidly following ACTH administration; also, they are suppressed by glucocorticoid administration. Because of its slow metabolic clearance, DHEAS does not exhibit diurnal rhythm variation. Circulation of Adrenal Androgens The adrenal androgens are secreted in an unbound state. Soon after their release in the circulation they bind to plasma proteins, chiefly to albumin (90%). Androstenedione, DHEA, and DHEAS circulate weakly bound to albumin, while testosterone is bound extensively to the sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG). Bound steroids are biologically inactive; the unbound steroids are free to interact with target cells either to exert their effects or to be transformed into inactive or active metabolites. Metabolism of Adrenal Androgens; Gender-Dependent Synthesis Of DHEA/DHEAS Due to lack or only minor inherent steroidogenic activity, adrenal androgens are precursor hormones (pro-hormones) that need to be transformed to potent androgens or estrogens to exert their effects ( 4 , 5 ). Their transformation into active sex steroids depends upon the level of expression of the various steroidogenic and metabolizing enzymes in each cell type which allows all androgen-sensitive and estrogen-sensitive tissues to have some control over the local levels of sex steroids according to their needs ( 6 ). Active androgens and estrogens thus synthesized exert their activity in the target cells with little diffusion, resulting in low levels in the general circulation. This intracrine mechanism serves to eliminate the exposure of other tissues to androgens or estrogens, minimizing unwanted side effects ( 4 , 7 - 9 ). In males with normal gonadal function, the conversion of adrenal androgens to testosterone accounts for less than 5% of the total amount of this hormone, and thus the physiologic effect is negligible. In females of reproductive age, the adrenal contribution to total androgen production is more important; during the follicular phase, the adrenal precursors account for 2/3 of total testosterone production and 1/2 of DHT production. During midcycle, the ovarian contribution increases, and the adrenal precursors account for only 40% of testosterone production. Apart from their peripheral conversion to more potent androgens, the adrenal androgens may be also aromatized to estrogens or undergo degradation and inactivation ( 4 , 5 ) ( Fig 2 ). In more detail, DHEA is readily converted within the adrenal gland
