Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


be also aromatized to estrogens or undergo degradation and inactivation ( 4 , 5 ) ( Fig 2 ). In more detail, DHEA is readily converted within the adrenal gland to DHEAS. DHEA secreted by the adrenal glands and the ovaries is also converted to DHEAS by the liver and the kidneys or it may be converted to Δ4-androstenedione. The adrenally produced DHEAS may be excreted without further metabolism or it may further undergo limited conversion to DHEA. Both DHEAS and DHEA may be metabolized to 7alpha- and 16alpha-hydroxylated derivatives and by 17β reduction to Δ5-Androstenediol and its sulfate. Androstenedione is converted either to testosterone or by reduction of its 4,5 double bonds to etiocholanolone or androsterone, which may be further converted by 17 alpha reductions to etiocholanediol and androstanediol, respectively. Testosterone is converted to DHT in androgen-sensitive tissues by 5 alpha reduction and it in turn is mainly metabolized by 3 alpha reductions to androstanediol. The metabolites of these androgens are conjugated either as glucuronides or sulfates and excreted in the urine. Regarding aromatization to estrogens, it was shown that not only androstenedione and testosterone, but also DHEA, may be converted to estrogens in peripheral tissues such as brain, bone, breast, and ovaries ( 6 , 10 ); this might be of importance, especially in women during the menopausal transition (see below) ( 11 , 12 ). Figure 2. Metabolism of adrenal androgens; 3BHSD, 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isozymes; 17BHSD, 17β -hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isozymes; 5aRed, 5α -reductase isozymesP450 aromatase, steroid sulfatase, STS. Age-Dependent Synthesis of DHEA/DHEAS Fetal DHEA and DHEAS fall rapidly after birth and remain low until adrenarche; they then start rising again and peak during the third decade of life after which the serum levels of DHEA and DHEAS progressively decline with advancing age by around 2–5% per year ( 10 , 13 ), so that by menopause the DHEA level has decreased by 60% ( 14 ), and by 80-90% of the peak production by the eighth or ninth decade of life ( 15 , 16 ). This decline has been termed “adrenopause”, however, cortisol secretion does not decline with age or may even increase ( 16 , 17 ). Adrenopause is independent of menopause and occurs in both sexes as a gradual process at similar ages. A decrease in 17,20-lyase activity may be responsible for the progressive diminution of DHEA and DHEA-S with advancing age ( 18
