Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


both sexes as a gradual process at similar ages. A decrease in 17,20-lyase activity may be responsible for the progressive diminution of DHEA and DHEA-S with advancing age ( 18 , 19 ), although other mechanisms, such as a reduction in the mass of the zona reticularis ( 20 ) or a decrease in IGF-I and IGF-II have also been proposed ( 21 ). Recent study by Heaney et al. in accordance with previous research found that older subjects exhibited lower plasma and saliva DHEA levels overall, while with increasing age, the DHEA area under the curve was attenuated and the slope of decline became less steep ( 17 , 22 ). Although DHEAS concentration does not vary throughout the day, DHEA secretion exhibits a diurnal rhythm like that of cortisol. Studies have indicated that DHEA secretion is reduced in the morning period resulting in a flatter diurnal rhythm among the oldest old, in contrast to cortisol which remains stable or even increases in the morning ( 17 , 23 ). The above diurnal rhythms of cortisol and DHEA, lead to an elevated cortisol: DHEA ratio, which is most pronounced in the morning period. The age-related decline in DHEA/DHEAS levels shows high inter-individual variability ( 20 ). There is a clear sex difference in DHEA/DHEAS concentrations with lower DHEAS concentrations in adult women compared to men ( 24 ), while there is also a clear genetic component predetermining circulating DHEA/DHEAS. Notably, data from the largest population-based twin study to estimate the genetic and environmental contributions of diurnal DHEAS concentrations demonstrated that salivary DHEAS is a heritable measure, with genetic effects accounting for 37%–46% of the total variance for the late morning and afternoon age-adjusted measures ( 25 ). Since DHEA is the main source of androgens in women, its age-related decline leads to a corresponding decrease in the total androgen pool. Although there is no defined level of androgen below which women can be said to be deficient, the decline of DHEA in postmenopausal women would suggest they are “deficient” in both estrogens and androgens ( 14 ). The declining circulating levels of adrenal androgens with advancing age have been related to clinical symptoms and disorders (see below). In the last few years, the concept that adrenal androgen production gradually declines with advancing age has changed following the analysis of the longitudinal data collected in the Study of Women’s Health
