Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


last few years, the concept that adrenal androgen production gradually declines with advancing age has changed following the analysis of the longitudinal data collected in the Study of Women’s Health Across the Nation (SWAN) ( 26 ). When the annual serum levels of DHEAS were aligned according to ovarian status, it was recognized that despite the overall age-related decline in DHEAS, in most women (85% of those studied) the adrenal androgen production rose during the menopausal transition, starting in the early peri-menopause and continuing into the early post-menopause. The DHEAS rise was attributed to the adrenals and not the ovaries, as a similar rise was also observed in intact and ovariectomized women ( 27 ); the gender-related rise of adrenal DHEAS and the time course of that rise that returns to a progressive decline following menopause, implies ovarian influences over adrenal steroidogenesis ( 28 ). Considering previous failure to adequately attribute phenotype, symptoms, and health trajectories to the observed longitudinal changes in circulating estradiol and progesterone ( 29 ), the perimenopausal rise in adrenal androgens could potentially suggest a more important role of these hormones in the occurrence of symptoms during the menopausal transition ( 30 ). The observational, epidemiologic, and interventional studies addressing this hypothesis are analyzed below. Some conditions and diseases, like poor life quality, satisfaction and psychosocial, as well as acute stress, severe chronic systemic diseases, anorexia nervosa, Cushing syndrome and chronic administration of glucocorticoids are associated with lower levels of DHEA and DHEAS. Hyperprolactinemia is associated with elevated levels of DHEAS ( 31 , 32 ). Biologic Effects of Adrenal Androgens; Cellular and Molecular Actions ROLE AS PRO-HORMONES DHEA possesses pleiotropic effects. Epidemiologic and prospective studies have associated the decline of circulating levels of androgens with the development and progression of degenerative disorders. The exact mechanism of action and clinical role of DHEA and DHEAS, if any, remain unclear. Due to lack or only minor inherent steroidogenic activity, the adrenal androgens need to be transformed to potent androgens or estrogens to exert their effects on peripheral tissues. Recent data suggest additional direct actions of the adrenal androgens further to those exerted through the androgen and estrogen receptors (see below). The principal biologic effects of the adrenal androgens typically seen during adrenarche consist mainly of pubic and axillary hair growth and the change of sweat composition that produces adult body odor ( 33 ). During the reproductive
