Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


androgens typically seen during adrenarche consist mainly of pubic and axillary hair growth and the change of sweat composition that produces adult body odor ( 33 ). During the reproductive years, in males with normal gonadal function, the adrenal androgens account for less than 5% of the daily production rate of testosterone and thus the physiologic effect is negligible. DHEA and DHEA-S levels have been shown to be associated with nutritional status. Obese children have higher levels of DHEA and/or DHEA-S and achieve adrenarche earlier than lean children. Indeed, a recent study showed that obese children with higher DHEAS concentrations at the age of seven years had more total and central adiposity and higher insulin than did nonobese children of the same age ( 34 , 35 ). Some research suggests that adrenal androgens directly or after peripheral conversion to estrogen modulate hypothalamic activity influencing the gonadarche. When produced in excess however, the adrenal androgens may have no clinical consequences in adult males or result in LH /FSH suppression and oligospermia/infertility. In boys, the adrenal androgen excess is associated with clinical manifestations including premature penile enlargement, early development of secondary sexual characteristics, premature closure of the epiphyseal growth plates and short final height. In females the excessive production of adrenal steroids as seen in Cushing syndrome, adrenal carcinoma, and congenital adrenal hyperplasia via peripheral conversion to testosterone and eventually to DHT result in acne, hirsutism, and menstrual/fertility defects or even virilization in more severe cases. MEMBRANE ASSOCIATED DHEA RECEPTORS Further to their effect via the estrogen and androgen receptors, recent data support direct actions of DHEA through specific G protein-coupled membrane receptors in bovine aortic and primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) ( 36 - 38 ) through which DHEA activates the endothelial NO synthetase (eNOS) (eNOS/cGMP pathway) [38] and increases the production of nitric oxide (NO), a key modulator of vascular function, by endothelial cells. Such receptors are also seen in the kidney, heart, and liver but at lower level than that in bovine aortic endothelial cells ( 39 ) as well as in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs), where DHEA inhibits voltage-dependent T type Ca-channels ( 40 ). In systemic circulation, a plasma membrane receptor has been suggested in the anti-remodeling action of DHEA involving inhibition of the Akt/GSK-3β signaling pathway ( 41 ). Other studies have shown inhibitory effect of DHEA on proliferation and apoptosis
