Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


been suggested in the anti-remodeling action of DHEA involving inhibition of the Akt/GSK-3β signaling pathway ( 41 ). Other studies have shown inhibitory effect of DHEA on proliferation and apoptosis of endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells independently of both estrogen and androgen receptors ( 42 , 43 ). The above suggest the presence of a membrane-associated DHEA specific receptor; the molecular structure of this receptor remains to be elucidated. CYTOSOLIC NUCLEAR RECEPTORS Steroid action involves cytosolic/nuclear hormone receptors ( 44 ); thus, most of the studies looking at the mechanism(s) responsible for DHEA action focused on such receptors ( 45 ). However, since DHEA can be metabolized into androgens/estrogens, it is not always easy to determine whether DHEA exerts its effects directly through the estrogen/androgen receptors or after conversion to these hormones. There is some new evidence showing that DHEA and some of its metabolites either bind to or activate nuclear receptors such as pregnane X receptor, constitutive androstanol receptor, estrogen receptor-β, and peroxisome proliferators activated receptors ( 46 - 49 ). Through the activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha for example, DHEA inhibits the activation of nuclear factor-κB and the secretion of interleukin-6 and interleukin-12, through which DHEA exerts anti-inflammatory effects ( 50 , 51 ). 7α-and 7β-hydroxylated derivatives of DHEA also seem to have direct effects on nuclear receptors, but their physiological function is not clear ( 39 ). Finally, DHEA inhibits apoptosis and promotes proliferation of osteoblasts in rats through MAPK signaling pathways, independently from androgens and estrogens ( 52 ); this action could be beneficial for preservation of bone mass and reduction of fracture risk. ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM RECEPTOR SIGMA 1 RECEPTOR More recently, it has been suggested that DHEA is an agonist of sigma-1 receptor (Sigma-1R) expressed in the endoplasmic reticulum of the heart, kidney, liver, and brain ( 53 , 54 ). Under physiological conditions, the sigma-1 receptor chaperones the functional inositol 1,4,5 trisphosphate receptor at the endoplasmic reticulum participating in the calcium signaling pathway ( 53 , 55 ). Animal studies have shown that via sigma-1R, but also by Akt– eNOs signaling pathway stimulation, DHEA may improve cardiac function ( 56 ) and exert vasculo-protective effects ( 57 ). There is a great volume of data suggesting antioxidant properties of DHEA; overproduction of oxygen-free radicals (oxidative stress) upregulates inflammation and cellular proliferation and is believed to play a critical role in the development
