Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


volume of data suggesting antioxidant properties of DHEA; overproduction of oxygen-free radicals (oxidative stress) upregulates inflammation and cellular proliferation and is believed to play a critical role in the development of cancer, atherosclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease, as well as the basic aging process ( 58 - 60 ). DHEA inhibits glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH) ( 61 , 62 ) and NADPH production. The decrease in NADPH levels results in reduced oxygen-free radical production via NADPH oxidase ( 62 ). Moreover, a study found that DHEA treatment of mice increased the number of Brd U-positive neurons co-expressing β-catenin, a downstream GSK-3β target, concluding that sigma-1 receptor stimulation by DHEA led to altered OBX-induced depressive-like behaviors by increasing neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus through activation of the Akt/GSK-3β/β-catenin pathway ( 63 ). Increased plasma DHEA and DHEAS have been demonstrated in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), predicting symptom improvement and coping as well as resilience adaptation. The same study suggested that decreased cortisol/DHEA ratio was associated with severe childhood trauma and current symptoms ( 64 ). In summary, DHEA mediates its action via transformation into androgen and estrogen derivatives acting through their specific receptors, but also via multiple ( 57 , 65 ) signaling pathways involving specific membrane, cytosolic/nuclear and endoplasmic reticulum receptors. POTENTIAL TREATMENT BENEFITS Data from epidemiologic and prospective studies indicate an inverse relation between low circulating levels of DHEA and DHEA-S and a host of aging-associated pathologies such as sexual dysfunction, mood defects, and poor sense of well-being ( 27 , 28 ), as well as higher risk of hospital admission ( 66 ), poor muscle strength ( 67 ) and mobility ( 66 , 68 ), and higher prevalence of frailty ( 69 ), insulin resistance, obesity, cardiovascular disease ( 45 ) and mortality from cardiovascular disease ( 70 ). At the same time, a positive relation between higher levels of DHEA-S and better health and well-being was documented ( 71 ). Furthermore, animal (primarily rodent) studies have suggested many beneficial effects of DHEA treatment, including improved immune function and prevention of atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, and obesity. Therefore, the therapeutic role of DHEA replacement as an anti-aging factor for the prevention and/or treatment of the above conditions was studied; recent systematic reviews of the reports do not seem promising, however ( 72 - 78 ). Treatment Modalities DHEA is considered as a hormone in Europe and thus becomes available only
