Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


systematic reviews of the reports do not seem promising, however ( 72 - 78 ). Treatment Modalities DHEA is considered as a hormone in Europe and thus becomes available only by prescription, while in the United States it is considered as a nutritional supplement and is sold over the counter without a prescription. This difference has no scientific foundation and is mostly a matter of declaration. Most DHEA supplements are made in laboratories from a substance called diosgenin, a plant sterol found in soy and wild yams. DHEA supplements were taken off the U.S. market in 1985 because of their unproven safety and effectiveness, but were reintroduced as a dietary supplement after the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act was passed in 1994. At present, questionable over-the-counter DHEA preparations lacking pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data are widely used in the United States. There is no standard dosage of DHEA replacement; some studies have used between 25 and 200 milligrams a day, or sometimes even higher amounts. DHEA in current preparations has a long half-life ( 45 ), which allows a single intake a day. Target levels of DHEA are around the middle of normal range for healthy young subjects, measured in a blood sample 24 hr after the last intake ( 79 ). The adrenal androgens are mainly thought to act as prohormones and exert at least part of their action via conversion to androgens and/or estrogens. Previous studies have shown that the end- products of DHEA supplementation depend on the patient’s gender, with a non-symmetrical transformation of DHEA favoring androgens in women and estrogens in men ( 72 , 80 , 81 ). The above refer to oral administration of DHEA supplements; percutaneous administration of DHEA seems to provoke similar increases in both estrogens and androgens in the two genders ( 82 ). Adrenal Insufficiency Adrenal insufficiency, despite supplementation of glucocorticoids, has been associated with decreased quality of life when compared to a healthy population ( 79 , 83 , 84 ). DHEA supplementation has been suggested as an accessory treatment to conventional adrenal replacement therapy with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. The exact physiological roles of DHEA still remain unclear and the routine therapy of individuals with adrenal insufficiency is still controversial. Some authors reported significant improvements of mood, well-being, sexual thoughts, libido, interest, and satisfaction following DHEA replacement, particularly in females ( 79 , 83 - 85 ). Other analyses
