Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


controversial. Some authors reported significant improvements of mood, well-being, sexual thoughts, libido, interest, and satisfaction following DHEA replacement, particularly in females ( 79 , 83 - 85 ). Other analyses of DHEA administration in women with primary and secondary adrenal insufficiency have resulted in inconsistent and unreproducible results ( 85 ). Recently, the supplementation of DHEA was suggested in women with adrenal insufficiency and low libido, depressive symptoms, or low energy levels despite optimal glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid replacement ( 86 ). LOW DHEA/DHEAS LEVELS AND ASSOCIATED COMORBIDITIES DHEA And Musculoskeletal Disorders The increasing incidence of fractures with advancing age has been related, among other factors, with the aging-related reduced muscle mass and strength, that increase the propensity for falling ( 87 ). A body of evidence exists on the effect of circulating DHEA/DHEAS on various markers of strength and physical function in older individuals. Studies in elderly individuals support a positive relation between DHEA blood levels and muscle mass ( 67 ), muscle strength ( 67 , 88 ), and mobility ( 68 ), as well as better self-reported ( 89 ) and objectively assessed physical function ( 90 ), and measured peak volume of oxygen consumed per minute ( 91 ) in elderly with higher DHEA/DHEAS concentrations. In this direction, higher DHEAS levels were associated with increased bone mass density (BMD) in both men ( 92 ) and post-menopausal women and inversely related to risk for falls ( 93 ). Finally, low DHEAS levels have been associated with a higher prevalence of frailty, a geriatric syndrome of loss of reserve characterized by weight loss, fatigue, weakness, and vulnerability to adverse events ( 69 , 94 ), and low back pain in both genders and slow rehabilitation of low-back pain in women ( 71 , 95 , 96 ). Reports from interventional studies support a therapeutic role of DHEA replacement in aging-associated musculoskeletal defects. For example, DHEA exerted positive effects on muscle strength, body composition ( 97 - 99 ), and physical performance ( 100 ), as well as on bone mass density (BMD) in both lumbar spine and the hip ( 15 , 72 , 98 , 101 - 105 ) when administered to post-menopausal women and elderly people over a period of 52 weeks. The above positive effects on musculoskeletal system were attributed to the DHEA-related increase of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels ( 97 , 106 )
