Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


over a period of 52 weeks. The above positive effects on musculoskeletal system were attributed to the DHEA-related increase of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels ( 97 , 106 ) and bioavailability (decrease of insulin growth factor binding protein-1 [IGFBP-1]) ( 106 ) in both men and women and/or to the increase of androgen levels mostly in women ( 97 , 106 , 107 ). Some other data also suggest aromatase activity of primary human osteoblasts converting DHEA to estrone ( 108 ), while it was shown in vitro that DHEA inhibits apoptosis and promotes proliferation of rat osteoblasts through MAPK signaling pathways, independently from androgen and estrogen effects ( 52 ). The above support a positive effect of DHEA on bone through conversion to estrogens, but also independently from its hormonal end-products. Other studies, however, failed to show a beneficial effect of DHEA supplementation on muscle function ( 109 - 111 ) or on BMD ( 99 , 100 , 112 ); of note all these studies were conducted over a shorter period (26 weeks only). Whether these conflicting data result from DHEA’s mild/moderate effect or from great differences between study designs, such as short duration of treatment and small number of participants, is difficult to say ( 73 ). Overall, the effect of DHEA supplementation on BMD is small in relation to other treatments for bone loss, and no fracture data are available. Therefore, its therapeutic utility in rehabilitation and/or fracture/frailty prevention and treatment protocols for older patients remains unclear. A recent systematic review ( 73 ) of the literature ( 72 , 83 , 97 , 100 , 113 - 116 ) concluded that overall, the benefit ( 113 , 116 ) of DHEA on muscle strength and physical function in older adults remains inconclusive. Some measures of muscle strength may improve, although DHEA does not appear to routinely benefit measures of physical function or performance. Therefore, consensus has not been reached. Further large clinical trials are necessary to better identify the clinical role of DHEA supplementation in this population. DHEA, Well-Being and Sexual Function If DHEA’s effects on musculoskeletal disorders are inconclusive, its utility for the management of ageing-related poor sense of well-being and sexual dysfunction is a question for top puzzle solvers. What we know so far from epidemiologic studies is that sexual function problems are common among women and increase with increasing age (
