Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


however, failed to show any benefit of DHEA replacement on sexual function, well-being, and menopausal symptoms in peri- and post-menopausal women ( 74 , 75 , 106 , 137 , 138 ) and women with adrenal insufficiency ( 85 , 139 , 140 ). A recent review of the available data concluded that current evidence does not support the routine use of DHEA in women with adrenal insufficiency ( 76 ). Furthermore, the more recent placebo-controlled randomized trials that are of superior design compared to the early trials, as they use validated measures of sexual function, have larger sample sizes, and are of longer duration, failed to document any significant benefit of oral DHEA therapy on well-being or sexual function in women ( 72 - 75 , 77 ). It has been hypothesized that the efficacy of DHEA to improve sexual function might be dependent on the route of its administration. In women, androgens and estrogens are produced from DHEA in the vagina tissue. As vaginal atrophy and dryness are common symptoms of estrogen deficiency during menopause, causing dyspareunia and sexual dysfunction ( 141 ), a possible benefit that emerged is that vaginally administered DHEA may improve the postmenopausal vaginal atrophy-related sexual dysfunction ( 142 ) without increasing the circulating levels of estrogen above the postmenopausal range ( 80 , 142 - 144 ). Despite initial promising, beneficial effects on sexual function, again, even with intravaginally administered DHEA, a study failed to show significant benefits ( 77 ). In men lower circulating levels of DHEA was related to erectile dysfunction. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study that enrolled men with erectile dysfunction treated with oral DHEA 50 mg daily has shown some promise for improving sexual performance in men who had low DHEA blood levels ( 145 ). However, high-quality studies have demonstrated inconsistent results regarding DHEA supplementation for improving sexual function, libido, and erectile dysfunction. Although research in this area is promising, additional well-designed studies are required. DHEA And Mood Disorders The prevalence of depression increases in cohorts of the elderly and has been independently related to high morbidity and mortality ( 146 ). In the central nervous system, DHEA is considered a neurosteroid with a wide range of functions. Animal studies demonstrated several DHEA-modulated neurotransmitters, including dopamine, glutamate, and c-amino butyric acid ( 39 ), as well as DHEA-induced increased activity of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurons ( 147 ), providing the
