Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


studies demonstrated several DHEA-modulated neurotransmitters, including dopamine, glutamate, and c-amino butyric acid ( 39 ), as well as DHEA-induced increased activity of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurons ( 147 ), providing the cellular basis for a potential antidepressant effect of DHEA. Furthermore, typical neuroleptic-like effects of DHEA were displayed in animal models of schizophrenia suggesting potential role of DHEA replacement in the treatment of schizophrenia ( 148 ). Previous studies suggested a strong relation between low levels of DHEA/DHEA-S and major depression in children and adolescents ( 149 ), as well as adults and the elderly ( 150 , 151 ). On the contrary, higher DHEA-S levels were positively associated with depressive symptoms during the menopausal transition ( 152 ) and depression in patients with major depression ( 153 , 154 ); whether the elevated DHEA-S levels in the above studies represent increased adrenal activity that could explain the depressive symptoms is not clear, as cortisol was not measured. Moreover, successful treatment of depression was followed by reductions in both DHEA-S ( 153 - 155 ) and DHEA levels ( 155 ), making the relation between DHEA/DHEAS and depression even more confusing. Several interventional studies have shown that DHEA replacement may improve negative and depressive symptoms ( 132 , 133 , 156 - 158 ). In women with adrenal insufficiency, oral DHEA replacement significantly improved the overall well-being, as well as scores for depression and anxiety ( 110 ); similar results were found in the management of the negative symptoms of schizophrenia ( 158 ). Recent placebo-controlled randomized trials, however, failed to demonstrate a beneficial effect of DHEA therapy on mood, quality of life, perceptions of physical and emotional health, and life satisfaction in postmenopausal women ( 72 , 74 , 75 ). However, recent data have suggested that increased circulating DHEA(S) levels may predict SSRI-associated remission in major depression ( 159 ). Thus, the therapeutic role of DHEA on mood disorders remains unclear. DHEA and Psychosocial Stress It has long been suggested that long-term psychosocial stress may cause or contribute to different diseases and symptoms, including atherosclerosis ( 160 ), coronary heart disease ( 161 ) and acute coronary events ( 162 ), as well as accelerated aging ( 163 , 164 ). Whether DHEA/DHEAS levels are related to psychological stress or not is still debatable. Exposure to prolonged psychosocial stress has been related to reduced ( 165 - 167 )
