Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


164 ). Whether DHEA/DHEAS levels are related to psychological stress or not is still debatable. Exposure to prolonged psychosocial stress has been related to reduced ( 165 - 167 ) or elevated levels of DHEA/DHEA-S ( 168 ), while some other studies failed to show any clear association in any direction ( 169 , 170 ). A recent study by Lennartsson et al. demonstrated that DHEA and DHEA-S levels are markedly lower in individuals that report perceived stress at work than in individuals who report no perceived stress at work ( 171 ). Whether this is of clinical importance is not clear. DHEA and Age-Related Cognitive Decline The incidence of dementia increases exponentially with increasing age in both men and women ( 172 ). The number of elderly people nowadays is the fastest growing segment of the population, which means the related personal, social, and economic burdens of dementia are extremely high and could increase dramatically over the next few decades. Therefore, effective prevention/treatment of neurodegenerative disorders is imperative. It has been proposed that DHEA and DHEAS may exert neuroprotective effects in the brain mainly through DHEA-dependent neural stem cell stimulation, genomic activity modulation, and upregulation of androgen receptor levels ( 173 , 174 ), as well as via the DHEA-induced inhibition of pro-inflammatory factor production, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) ( 39 ) that are involved in the pathogenesis of the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer disease ( 175 ). Higher serum levels of DHEAS have been related to more favorable cognitive function in older people, such as better concentration and working memory ( 176 , 177 ) and higher scores on the Mini Mental State Examination ( 178 ). In this direction, low DHEA/DHEAS levels in particular brain regions were thought to play a role in the development of Parkinson disease, which is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, just behind Alzheimer ( 179 ), while DHEA administration showed some beneficial effect in a primate model of Parkinson disease ( 180 , 181 ). Inverse relations between DHEAS levels in saliva ( 181 ) and circulation ( 176 ) and some domains of memory impairment were also documented, supporting the hypothesis that DHEA supplementation may improve cognition in the elderly; yet solid evidence of associations between the endogenous levels of these steroids and measures of cognitive function is lacking. No studies with DHEA replacement, either
