Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


improve cognition in the elderly; yet solid evidence of associations between the endogenous levels of these steroids and measures of cognitive function is lacking. No studies with DHEA replacement, either acute administration or chronic (up to 12 months) supplementation, have shown a benefit in cognitive function in healthy elderly populations ( 74 , 137 , 181 - 185 ). Furthermore, DHEA supplementation failed to show any benefit in patients with Alzheimer disease ( 186 ) and had only minimal beneficial effect on specific cognitive domains such as the verbal fluency in older women with mild to moderate cognitive impairment ( 187 ). Remarkably, some other studies have shown a negative effect of DHEAS replacement on cognitive performance ( 183 , 188 , 189 ). It should be noted however, that most studies included only small groups of patients and were up to a yearlong, which is probably not enough time to address the potential role of DHEA / DHEAS in neurodegenerative disorders. DHEA and Metabolism LIPIDS In women, the effects of sex steroids on lipid profile differ according to the steroid treatment (estrogen or androgen) and to the route of administration. Thus, oral methyltestosterone lowers high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol ( 190 ), and oral estrogen increases HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides and lowers low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol and total cholesterol ( 191 , 192 ), while transdermal estradiol and transdermal testosterone have little or no effect on lipids ( 193 ). Combined oral estrogen and methyltestosterone is associated with lowering of HDL-cholesterol ( 194 , 195 ). Considering that DHEA can be converted intracellularly to estrogens and androgens, the effect on the lipid profile could be mixed and may vary between individuals. Most of the recent well-designed studies, addressing this issue report no association or even an adverse association (at least in women) ( 196 , 197 ) between plasma levels of DHEA ( 198 , 199 ) or DHEA administration ( 97 , 109 , 192 , 200 , 201 ) and the lipid profile. BODY MASS INDEX (BMI) Animal studies support a beneficial effect of DHEA administration on obesity ( 202 - 204 ). In humans, two sets of longitudinal analyses of studies with women in menopausal transition showed that elevated DHEAS level is negatively related to BMI ( 27 , 28 ). On the other hand, baseline analyses by Santoro et al [209] did not find much association between DHEAS and
