Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


level is negatively related to BMI ( 27 , 28 ). On the other hand, baseline analyses by Santoro et al [209] did not find much association between DHEAS and BMI, waist-hip ratio, or waist. Childhood obesity is associated with higher levels of DHEAS ( 34 ). Similarly, a 2-year, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind study involving elderly men and women with low levels of DHEAS, showed no significant effect of DHEA replacement (75 mg per day orally) on body composition measurements ( 72 ). Interestingly, a, recent meta-analysis of intervention studies showed that DHEA supplementation in elderly men can induce only a small positive effect on body composition which is strictly dependent on DHEA conversion into its bioactive metabolites such as androgens or estrogens ( 205 ). Putting together these results, current data regarding DHEA effect on BMI contradict each other, and its usage in clinical practice for body weight management is not suggested or recommended at the present. INSULIN RESISTANCE DHEA may at least theoretically improve endothelial function ( 43 ), and ameliorate local/systemic inflammation ( 50 , 51 ) and oxidative stress ( 58 - 60 , 206 ). These effects in association with DHEAS’s inverse relation with body mass index (BMI) ( 23 , 27 , 28 , 207 ) would most probably suggest beneficial effect of DHEA/DHEAS supplement on insulin sensitivity ( 207 ). This hypothesis was confirmed by reports from animal studies in which DHEA replacement had a beneficial effect on insulin sensitivity ( 202 , 203 ). In human studies, however, the results are rather inconsistent. In some studies, the lower levels of DHEA seen with aging have been associated with impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, and diabetes ( 208 - 211 ), while in another ( 212 ) exactly the opposite relation was shown as higher levels of DHEA were associated with impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes mellitus in post-menopausal women. The truth regarding DHEA/DHEAS and insulin resistance and its associated conditions gets even more complicated considering conflicting results from interventional studies with DHEA replacement. Thus, an ameliorating effect of long-term treatment with DHEA on insulin resistance was described in a group of middle-aged hypo-adrenal women treated with DHEA ( 213 ), but also in groups of elderly men ( 214 ) and postmenopausal women ( 213 - 217 ) replaced with DHEA. The DHEA dose used ranged between 25 and 100 mg/day oally
