Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


heart disease patients versus control were observed in some studies, but not in others ( 238 , 265 , 266 ). The reasons that account for the discrepancies among the above studies are not clear. It can be argued that smoking could be a possible confounding variable for both DHEA-S levels and CVD, as smoking increases DHEA-S levels but also increases the incidence of adverse cardiovascular events ( 267 , 268 ). The discrepancies among the above studies may also be attributed to population variability; for example, in the study by Mazat et al. the relative risk of an 8-year mortality associated with low DHEA-S was 3.4 times higher in males under 70 years compared to older men (odds ratio of 6.5 versus 1.9) ( 16 ). Finally, DHEA-S was checked just once in some retrospective studies, often several years before the adverse cardiovascular events ( 269 ). Whether exogenously administered DHEA could ameliorate key elements involved in the generation and progression of the atherosclerotic process was addressed in humans with atherosclerosis and experimental animal models. The human studies have shown a beneficial effect of DHEA on angiographic evidence of atherosclerosis and improvement of vascular endothelial function ( 43 , 234 , 270 ). Several animal studies have also clearly demonstrated the inhibitory effect of orally administered DHEA on atherosclerosis and plaque progression ( 271 , 272 ) as well as beneficial effects on ischemia–reperfusion injury in the microcirculation ( 273 , 274 ) and cardiac dysfunction ( 56 , 57 ). Arterial stiffness, which is also considered a risk factor for CVD, significantly improved after DHEA replacement in both elderly men and women ( 275 , 276 ). Whether the above findings could be translated into DHEA administration in clinical practice for the reduction of CVD morbidity and/or mortality is not well documented and supported by current reports. However, since DHEA is a well-tolerated molecule and an inexpensive drug, additional large multi-centric clinical studies could address its role in the prevention and/or management of CVD. DHEA and Cerebrovascular Disease Stroke is the third-leading cause for disability worldwide ( 277 ); therefore, early risk stratification for an optimized allocation of health care resources is imperative. The ischemic strokes that account for the great majority of all stroke cases (87 percent) occur as a result of acute obstruction of atherosclerotic blood vessels supplying blood to the brain ( 278 ). Considering
