Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


for the great majority of all stroke cases (87 percent) occur as a result of acute obstruction of atherosclerotic blood vessels supplying blood to the brain ( 278 ). Considering DHEAS has neuroprotective and antiatherosclerotic properties ( 243 , 279 , 280 ) and its synthesis has been documented in the brain ( 175 , 281 , 282 ), the role of DHEA/DHEAS in acute stroke incidence and outcome was investigated. Interestingly, in women from Nurses’ Health Study, lower DHEAS levels were associated with a greater risk of ischemic stroke ( 283 ). In addition, it was suggested that DHEAS levels in the blood may predict the severity and functional outcome of acute strokes ( 284 , 285 ). Whether the above findings suggest baseline DHEAS levels could alter stroke management in clinical practice or whether DHEA replacement has a therapeutic potential role in stroke management need to be addressed. DHEA and Pulmonary Hypertension The previously described vasorelaxant properties of DHEA in systemic circulation were also investigated in pulmonary hypertension in animal models and in humans. Several studies have shown that DHEA replacement could effectively prevent and reverse hypoxic pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary arterial remodeling, and right ventricular hypertrophy in rats ( 286 - 288 ) in a dose-dependent manner ( 289 ) and also prevent the age-related frailty induced by hypoxic pulmonary hypertension in older mice ( 288 ). The effect of DHEA is selective to the pulmonary circulation since the systemic blood pressure was not altered. It was shown that the beneficial effects of DHEA on pulmonary hypertension were at least partly independent of its conversion to estrogen/testosterone and eNOS activation. Some of the potential molecular mechanism by which DHEA promotes pulmonary artery relaxation appears to involve K+ channel activation, upregulation of soluble guanylate cyclase ( 287 , 290 , 291 ), downregulation of hypoxia inducible factor 1a (HIF-1a) ( 292 ), and by NADPH oxidation-elicited subunit dimerization of protein kinase G 1α ( 293 ). As previously discussed, DHEA may inhibit and reverse chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension in rats. Little is known, however, about the effects of DHEA on the pulmonary circulation in humans. The levels of DHEA/DHEA-S in patients with pulmonary hypertension over time have not been determined, but the recent Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) - Right Ventricle (RV) Study found that higher DHEA levels were associated with increased RV mass and stroke volume in women
