Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


determined, but the recent Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) - Right Ventricle (RV) Study found that higher DHEA levels were associated with increased RV mass and stroke volume in women ( 294 ). Another prospective study suggested a strong inverse correlation between natural DHEA/DHEA-S blood levels and the ten-year mortality in old male smokers and ex-smokers ( 16 ). Prompted by the experimental findings in the pulmonary circulation, a recent study investigated whether DHEA can improve the clinical and hemodynamic status of patients with pulmonary hypertension associated to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; eight patients with the disease were treated with DHEA (200mg daily orally) for 3 months. The results were very promising as DHEA treatment significantly improved the pulmonary hemodynamics and the physical performance of the patients, without worsening gas exchange, as do other pharmacological treatments of pulmonary hypertension ( 295 ). Putting together the above evidence, there are experimental data to support the beneficial role of DHEA treatment in models with pulmonary hypertension, but only a few studies supporting its beneficial effect in patients with pulmonary hypertension associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Further clinical studies would probably clarify its therapeutic role in the management of pulmonary hypertension in clinical practice. DHEA and Autoimmune Disorders INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE (IBD) DHEA has anti-inflammatory properties ( 50 , 51 ). Its levels appear to be low in people with ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, irrespective of the patient’s age ( 296 , 297 ). A phase II small pilot trial in patients with active inflammatory bowel disease refractory to other drugs, treated with 200 mg dehydroepiandrosterone per day orally for 56 days ( 298 ) showed that DHEA may decrease the clinical activity of the disease and may even cause a remission. More studies are needed before saying for sure whether DHEA helps IBD or not. SYSTEMIC LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS (SLE) Several randomized controlled clinical studies have reported that regardless of the patient’s age, taking DHEA (50-200mg/day) along with other medications improves quality of life for people with mild to moderate SLE, decreases corticosteroid requirements, and reduces the frequency of flare-ups, though it probably does not change the overall course of their disease ( 84 , 299 - 303 ). A study had shown DHEA replacement may increase bone mass in women with lupus ( 302 ). A 2007 report in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews ( 78 ) suggests a
