Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


had shown DHEA replacement may increase bone mass in women with lupus ( 302 ). A 2007 report in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews ( 78 ) suggests a "modest but clinically significant impact" of DHEA replacement on health-related quality of life in the short-term for people with SLE; the impact on disease activity was inconsistent. Long- term outcomes and safety remain unstudied. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS (RA) DHEA levels have been found to be low in people with rheumatoid arthritis ( 304 , 305 ) and decrease further with glucocorticoid therapy ( 306 ). Considering the well-demonstrated immune-suppressive activities exerted by the adrenal androgens and their derivatives ( 307 - 309 ), the utility of DHEA as potential therapy for management of male and female RA patients was studied. Preliminary data from animal studies showed benefits of DHEA treatment in collagen-induced arthritis ( 310 - 312 ). However, in carefully controlled human clinical trials, DHEA treatment produced only modest benefits ( 313 ), probably with the exception of female-treated RA patients who benefit the most by DHEA replacement ( 314 ). The noted discrepancy in benefits from DHEA treatment between animals and humans may be related to the low endogenous DHEA in rodents relative to humans because of low levels of cytochrome P450 17α-hydroxylase ( 175 ), but also because of different DHEA metabolism between species; remarkably, in rodents DHEA has many highly oxygenated metabolites and a surprisingly complex metabolism that results in production of a multitude highly oxygenated species that may exert the beneficial effects on arthritis ( 315 ). DHEA AND ADVERSE HEALTH OUTCOMES DHEA supplements are generally well tolerated in studies using oral or percutaneous administration, with daily doses ranging from 25 mg to 1,600 mg. DHEA is an important precursor for estrogen and androgen production. In women DHEA when administered orally is mainly converted to androgen metabolites. As a result, some minimal androgenic adverse effects have been reported, including mild acne, seborrhea, facial hair growth, and ankle swelling ( 45 , 75 , 315 ). A hormonal etiology has long been suspected for breast and endometrial cancer as several risk factors for each cancer, such as obesity, nulliparity, and early menarche are hormonally related ( 78 , 316 - 318 ). The plasma concentrations of the adrenal androgens in premenopausal women were previously associated with higher risk for development of breast cancer ( 319 - 321
