Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


, 316 - 318 ). The plasma concentrations of the adrenal androgens in premenopausal women were previously associated with higher risk for development of breast cancer ( 319 - 321 ). Furthermore, DHEA-S levels above a cut off limit predicted disease progression in hypoestrogenized women treated for breast cancer ( 322 ). On the other hand, in vitro studies support an inhibitory effect of DHEA on the growth of human mammary cancer cells and the growth of chemically-induced mammary cancer in rats ( 10 , 62 , 323 ). It was shown that the effect of DHEA in mammary tissue depends on the level of plasma estrogens. Thus, growth inhibition occurs only in the presence of high estrogen concentrations, and growth stimulation occurs in the presence of a low-level estrogen milieu ( 12 , 324 ). The exact role of DHEA supplementation on breast cancer in humans has not been fully studied. A previous review of clinical, epidemiological, and experimental studies suggests late promotion of breast cancer in postmenopausal women by prolonged intake of DHEA, especially if central obesity coexists, and suggests extra caution when DHEA supplements are used by obese postmenopausal women ( 325 ). A more recent review of the medical literature investigating DHEA physiology and randomized controlled trials of the use of DHEA in postmenopausal women, however, did not find any adverse effect of DHEA supplementation ( 31 ). Unopposed estrogen is also known to be associated with an increased risk of endometrial carcinoma ( 316 ). DHEA supplementation did not increase the endometrial thickness in postmenopausal women treated with 25 mg/day DHEA orally for 6 months ( 136 ) or 50 mg daily for 12 months ( 135 , 136 , 326 ). In addition, DHEA administered percutaneously for 12 months to postmenopausal women was shown to have an estrogenic effect on the vagina without affecting the endometrium that remained atrophic ( 105 ). In men, DHEA supplements are mainly transformed to estrogen metabolites but also to more potent androgens. As a result, concerns regarding the effect of DHEA supplementation on prostate were raised, especially after the finding that about 15% of DHT present in the prostate comes from DHEA metabolism ( 327 ). A 2-year, placebo-controlled, randomized, double blind study involving elderly men receiving DHEA did not show any adverse effects in prostate ( 72 ). As long as long-term safety data for DHEA supplementation
