Adrenal Androgens and Aging
KEYWORDS: pubmed, dhea, dehydroepiandrosterone, women, levels, adrenal, effects, dheas, androgens, studies, men, free, study, article, article pubmed


placebo-controlled, randomized, double blind study involving elderly men receiving DHEA did not show any adverse effects in prostate ( 72 ). As long as long-term safety data for DHEA supplementation are lacking, the American Cancer Society advices caution in its use in people who have cancer, especially types of cancer that respond to hormones, such as certain types of breast cancer, prostate cancer, and endometrial cancer ( 328 ). The authors of a Cochrane Systematic Review regarding the supplementation of DHEA in peri- and post-menopausal women, questioned the effectiveness of DHEA in women, and concluded that the overall quality of the studies analyzed was moderate to low and that the study outcomes were inconsistent and could not be pooled to obtain an overall effect due to the diversity of the measurement methods employed ( 329 ). CONCLUSIONS Theoretically, supplementing a pre-hormone is extremely interesting as it would provide peripheral tissues with levels of sex steroids according to local needs and would eliminate the exposure of other tissues to androgens or estrogens, minimizing unwanted side effects. Therefore, DHEA administration is closer to ‘‘hormonal optimization’’ than hormonal supplementation. In older people, lower than normal levels of DHEA/DHEAS were previously related to aging-associated degenerative disorders, including metabolic and cardiovascular diseases, poor physical performance, mood and memory defects, sexual dysfunction, and poor sense of wellbeing. Whether this is just a statistical finding with no practical clinical meaning has been investigated by many interventional studies most of which, however, were of short duration and had a small number of participants. Without exception, all recent reviews of the available data regarding DHEA replacement utility for the management of aging-related disorders do not support its use in clinical practice ( 72 - 78 ); no significant adverse or negative side effects of DHEA were reported in clinical studies, but also no significant evidence that low levels of DHEA cause the aging-related degenerative disorders or that taking DHEA can help prevent/treat them. Thus, current clinical modalities with DHEA supplements do not comply with evidence-based medicine. Since there are several known biochemical actions by which DHEA could ameliorate disorders affecting the elderly population and is a well-tolerated molecule and an inexpensive drug, additional large multi-center clinical studies would probably give us a better understanding of its clinical utility in the management of aging-related disorders. Till then, we should probably reconsider suggesting patients to start on a pro-hormone that would
