Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


RESEARCH ARTICLE Clinical presentation of neurosyphilis – a single-center retrospective data analysis Susanne Dyckhoff-Shen1 · Ilias Masouris1 · Stefanie Völk1 · Konstantin Pusl1 · Ulrich Seybold2 · Matthias Klein1 Received: 8 January 2026 / Accepted: 21 April 2026 © The Author(s) 2026 Abstract Background As cases of neurosyphilis are rising worldwide – especially in people living with HIV (PLWH) – current data 2005 to 2024, were retrospectively analyzed. Probable diagnosis was based on corresponding signs and symptoms, positive syphilis serology, Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) abnormalities, and/or improvement after antibiotic therapy. In asymptomatic patients, diagnosis was based on CSF abnormalities with positive serology. A positive CSF/serum treponemal antibody index confirmed the diagnosis. Results 77 patients with neurosyphilis were identified, the majority being male (95%), with a high proportion of HIV co- symptoms were cognitive deficits, headache, and psychiatric symptoms. CSF abnormalities and additional co-infections were more pronounced among PLWH. CSF cell count and protein concentration were significantly lower in asymptomatic (latent) neurosyphilis compared to symptomatic cases, yet between various symptomatic manifestations of neurosyphilis only minor differences were observed. CSF VDRL-test was negative in nearly half of patients with confirmed neurosyphilis. Penicillin G was the predominant treatment (71%), with ceftriaxone used as the main alternative (21%), and doxycycline in 3 patients mostly due to penicillin allergy. Clinical improvement was observed in 88% of symptomatic patients. Discussion Our findings align with recent reports describing neurosyphilis as a heterogeneous infection strongly linked to HIV-infection. The limited sensitivity of CSF VDRL reinforces the need for multimodal diagnostics. Current CSF testing Keywords Neurosyphilis · HIV · Treponema pallidum Introduction to a few years after the primary infection, and “late neu- rosyphilis”, which can occur many years or even decades Neurosyphilis is the neurological manifestation of syphilis, later . Although neurosyphilis was once considered a rare an infection with the mostly sexually transmitted bacterium complication in the antibiotic era , its incidence appears Treponema pallidum. This condition can affect various parts to be increasing again in many countries, paralleling the of the central nervous system (CNS). A distinction is made resurgence of syphilis [3–6]. Epidemiological data from tion rates have been increasing in Germany significantly since 2010 and were already rising slowly before that [1, 7], particularly among high-risk populations such as men Susanne Dyckhoff-Shen who have sex with men (MSM) and people living with HIV (PLWH), in whom neurosyphilis is frequently underdiag- Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, Munich D-81377,
