Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


high-risk populations such as men Susanne Dyckhoff-Shen who have sex with men (MSM) and people living with HIV (PLWH), in whom neurosyphilis is frequently underdiag- Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, Munich D-81377, Germany are at increased risk of developing neurosyphilitic compli- 1 3 load are considered factors that further elevate the risk of who had been treated for neurosyphilis. As a next step, those neurological involvement. neurosyphilis cases were classified as probable or confirmed Despite the availability of effective antibiotic treatments, according to the established criteria from the German Neu- particularly in high-risk groups such PLWH. The disease (1) subacute or chronic clinical neurological or psychiatric often presents with subtle or non-specific symptoms, which signs or symptoms consistent with neurosyphilis, (2) CSF may lead to delayed diagnosis and, consequently, increased abnormalities, e.g. pleocytosis, elevated total protein or morbidity . As “the great mimicker” , the clini- blood-CSF barrier dysfunction, (3) favorable impact of anti- ing from cognitive impairment (e.g., dementia, confusion) fluid (CSF) abnormalities and (4) reactive syphilis serology and meningovascular manifestations resembling stroke, to in serum. For probable neurosyphilis, 2 criteria from (1) to motor deficits such as paresis and coordination disorders (3) and criterium (4) had to be fulfilled. Evidence of intra- (as seen in tabes dorsalis). Psychiatric symptoms, including thecal Treponema pallidum antibody production led to con- depression and psychosis, may also occur. In some cases, firmed neurosyphilis diagnosis. Four cases did not fulfill the asymptomatic meningitis with inflammatory CSF findings diagnostic criteria (asymptomatic cases with normal CSF but without overt neurological symptoms may be present parameters) and were therefore excluded from the study. In . total, 77 patients were included with 34 cases classified as The broad spectrum of symptoms makes it a challenge probable (30 with negative CSF/serum antibody index and to correctly diagnose neurosyphilis patients, especially as 4 without determined antibody index) (Fig. 1) and 43 cases serum syphilis tests, and CSF parameters without one single Data were extracted from electronic medical records. reliable parameter. Several scores with diagnostic crite- The following parameters were obtained: demographics score is lacking . rological and psychiatric symptoms), comorbidities includ- Our retrospective study aimed to conduct a comprehen- ing HIV status, diagnostic findings (serum and CSF syphilis acteristics of adult patients diagnosed with neurosyphilis quotient, oligoclonal bands (OCB), and MRI findings), 2005, and December 31, 2024. This investigation seeked to provide valuable insights on diagnostic challenges and ther- Statistical analysis
