Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


Cryptococcus neoformans (n = 1, posi- detection limit, 1x above, 3x not determined). Half of these tive PCR, culture and microscopy in CSF), Pseudomonas patients had either a reinfection or continuously elevated 1 3 serum titres despite antibiotic therapy which might have In 22 patients classified as confirmed neurosyphilis, VDRL led to more extensive diagnostic including CSF analysis. in CSF was performed yielding a negative result in almost MRI was conducted in two asymptomatic patients without half (10/22). MRI was abnormal in 11/23 patients with any abnormalities. CSF analysis revealed mild lymphocytic confirmed neurosyphilis. Three patients had additional pleocytosis with a median cell count of 9/µl, and median CNS coinfections (1x cryptococcal meningitis, 2x CNS protein concentration of 44 mg/dl. All but two asymptom- toxoplasmosis). atic neurosyphilis patients were treated with penicillin G i.v. for 14 days, one with doxycycline, one with piperacillin/ Normal CSF parameters more common in late tazobactam, and none with ceftriaxone. neurosyphilis Clinical improvement after antibiotic therapy A total of 17 patients in the total cohort revealed normal despite lack of intrathecal treponemal antibody CSF cell count (< 5 cells/µl), including five who also exhib- synthesis ited normal CSF protein concentrations. All five patients – except for one - who did not meet the standard CSF criteria Overall, neurosyphilis diagnosis was categorized as con- nonetheless showed positive treponemal serology (TPPA firmed in 43 cases and probable in 34. The subgroup clas- and FTA-ABS) as well as an elevated CSF/serum anti- sified as probable neurosyphilis did not demonstrate an body index. Four of these five patients were HIV-positive. elevated CSF/serum treponemal antibody index. In four They presented with typical neurological and or psychi- of 34, the index was not determined, while in the remain- atric symptoms – categorized as general paresis (n = 4) or ing 30 patients, the index was negative (< 1.5). The diag- meningovascular neurosyphilis (n = 1). Those patients were nosis of neurosyphilis in patients with a negative antibody all male, aged 50–67 years, and reported symptom dura- index is inherently uncertain. We therefore examined these tions ranging from several weeks to several years. Four 30 cases in greater detail. Eight patients were asymptom- demonstrated positive CSF TPPA, FTA-ABS and elevated atic but exhibited positive syphilis serology together with CSF/serum antibody index; two of them showed clinical abnormal CSF parameters. TPPA and/or FTA-ABS in CSF improvement upon intravenous antibiotic treatment. The were positive
