Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


exhibited positive syphilis serology together with CSF/serum antibody index; two of them showed clinical abnormal CSF parameters. TPPA and/or FTA-ABS in CSF improvement upon intravenous antibiotic treatment. The were positive in five of these patients and not determined single HIV-negative patient, who had been diagnosed and in three. In one 26-year-old, neurologically asymptomatic treated for syphilis 10 years prior, displayed negative CSF patient with a penile ulcus that had been treated 17 months OCB and a negative antibody index, suggesting residual prior with doxycycline, neither CSF parameters nor serum serological activity rather than active neurosyphilis; how- residual titers rather than active disease. The remaining 22 with intravenous penicillin G. symptomatic patients with negative antibody index all had CSF pleocytosis and/or elevated protein concentrations. Penicillin G remains predominant treatment, Significant clinical improvement was seen after treatment ceftriaxone main alternative in 15/22 patients. In 15 of the 22 symptomatic patients (68%), symptom Most patients were treated with penicillin G (n = 55, 71%), duration ranged from 1 day to 2 months at the time of followed by ceftriaxone which was used in 21% of cases diagnosis, raising the possibility that intrathecal antibody (Table 3). In total, three patients received doxycycline as production had not yet developed at the time of lumbar antibiotic therapy for neurosyphilis: in two cases, a peni- puncture in those cases. cillin allergy was documented explaining the use of dox- ycycline; for the third patient, the treatment decision for CSF VDRL negative in almost 50% of cases with doxycycline was not evident from the patient charts. Two confirmed neurosyphilis patients received piperacillin/tazobactam and for another The subgroup of 43 confirmed cases included 2 female otic agent was not documented. patients and half were HIV-positive (n = 21). Ten patients Analyzing the relation between administered antibiotic early meningitis (n = 2), meningovascular neurosyphilis proportion of improvement in the ceftriaxone group. (n = 8), ocular (n = 11), tabes dorsalis (n = 3) and general Interestingly, asymptomatic patients were never treated paresis (n = 9). Median CSF cell count was 22 cells/µl with ceftriaxone leading to this result. When we excluded median CSF/serum antibody index was 8.0 (IQR 4.0-19.6). ment disappeared. Five patients with long lasting symptoms 1 3 Table 3 Antibiotic therapy was predominantly penicillin G, followed Discussion by ceftriaxone Treatment Penicillin G Ceftriaxone Doxy- Our analysis provides a structured and comprehensive over- (n = 55) (n = 16) cycline
