Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


(1973–2017, n = 251) reported a antibiotic therapy. lar involvement and cognitive impairment being the most Duration of hospital stay overall was 16.4 days and common manifestations – parallel to our findings . The significantly longer in HIV-positive patients than in those Danish cohort likewise identified early meningitis and ocu- without HIV. Neurosyphilis manifestation did not influence lar neurosyphilis as the predominant manifestations . induction of neurosyphilis treatment was documented: can- aligns with reports from other Western countries. Neverthe- dida infection (n = 2), thrombophlebitis (n = 2), exanthema less, international comparisons suggest geographic variation independent of HIV status and antibiotic agent. Follow- found neurosyphilis to account for 3.3% of meningitis, 3.6% up CSF analysis was conducted in 24 patients: only in 2 of dementia and 11% of stroke cases . Recent Chinese patients, CSF alterations did not improve after treatment. studies describe demographic patterns resembling Western 22 patients showed improvement of CSF and another 23 cohorts – predominantly middle-aged male patients, but normalization of serum parameters (RPR). For the rest, fol- with markedly lower HIV co-infection rate (9%) and a dif- reported in seven patients who had been treated with either and ocular neurosyphilis was less common . As this penicillin G (n = 4), ceftriaxone, doxycycline or piperacillin/ was a retrospective single-center study, it should be added tazobactam (n = 1 each). that differences in demographic and clinical characteristics compared with other cohorts may potentially reflect center- specific case mix as much as true geographic variation. The observation that asymptomatic and ocular presenta- tions accounted for a substantial proportion of cases is con- sistent with the evolving clinical spectrum of neurosyphilis in modern antibiotic-era cohorts . This shift toward more subtle manifestations highlights how reliance on classic 1 3 neurological symptoms alone may lead to underdiagnosis For categorization of neurosyphilis cases, we used the . diagnostic criteria of the current German guideline, as all Diagnosing neurosyphilis remains challenging, as it is patients were diagnosed and treated within Germany. These changes, and positive syphilis serology in serum and CSF, ing neurological or psychiatric symptoms, abnormal CSF cians are often confronted with three diagnostically ambigu- nemal antibody synthesis by positive CSF/serum antibody ous constellations: (i) patients without CSF abnormalities, index confirmed the diagnosis. Although the distinction (ii) patients without evidence of intrathecal treponemal anti- between active neurosyphilis and residual serological state body synthesis or negative CSF VDRL, and (iii) patients
