Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


confirmed the diagnosis. Although the distinction (ii) patients without evidence of intrathecal treponemal anti- between active neurosyphilis and residual serological state body synthesis or negative CSF VDRL, and (iii) patients may be debated in some suspected or probable cases within without neurological or psychiatric symptoms. our cohort, it is noteworthy that a substantial proportion (6.5%) who had a normal CSF cell count and protein levels, improvement after intravenous antibiotic therapy. These but fulfilled diagnostic criteria based on clinical presenta- findings suggest a potential beneficial effect of antibiotic tion, serological findings, and CSF treponemal antibody therapy even in diagnostically controversial cases. synthesis. Four of them were classified as general paresis. Lastly, a quarter of our cohort was asymptomatic – with- One of them displayed a negative antibody index, suggest- out presentation of typical neurological or psychiatric symp- ing residual serological activity rather than active neuro- toms. This finding aligns with other studies that report 5% to after treatment with intravenous penicillin G. Neurosyphilis lines do not recommend routine lumbar puncture for the with normal CSF parameters is not uncommon: in recent evaluation of latent asymptomatic neurosyphilis . Chinese cohorts, only 60% of neurosyphilis patients dem- The relatively large proportion of asymptomatic patients in onstrated abnormal CSF cell counts and protein concen- our cohort likely reflects historical referral patterns as 75% trations . When comparing CSF leukocyte counts of this subgroup were treated before 2015. For example, across neurosyphilis manifestations, values in patients with HIV-positive status or lack of titer reduction despite antibi- asymptomatic neurosyphilis were significantly lower than otic treatment might have triggered neurological evaluation in those with symptomatic disease. Across neurosyphilis in these cases, as not all 2,201 patients treated for syphilis stages, CSF leukocyte counts were slightly higher in early during the study period were assessed. Applying the cur- neurosyphilis than in late types, although this difference rent recommendations to our cohort, those 20 asymptom- did not reach statistical significance. These observations atic patients would not have been diagnosed or treated for are consistent with evidence that neurosyphilis may occur neurosyphilis. The study design does not allow any conclu- without CSF pleocytosis or elevated CSF protein levels [4, sion on how many of those patients would have developed 20], that CSF cell counts tend to be lower in asymptomatic neurological symptoms without antibiotic treatment due to neurosyphilis , and that cell counts decline as the missing long-term follow-up. This
