Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


that CSF cell counts tend to be lower in asymptomatic neurological symptoms without antibiotic treatment due to neurosyphilis , and that cell counts decline as the missing long-term follow-up. This scenario can be debated disease progresses from early to late stages . Moreover, either as misdiagnosis or over-treatment. The first concern 80% of patients with normal CSF were PLWH. In advanced is further supported by a large systematic review including stages of HIV disease, less CSF pleocytosis in neurosyphilis more than 7,000 patients from China, in which over half of as a blunted inflammatory response is reported , yet on neurosyphilis cases were initially misdiagnosed . Along the other hand, HIV itself can cause CSF pleocytosis , this line, Arns et al. recently identified VDRL titers > 1:32 as thereby confounding the interpretation of CSF parameters. a risk factor for neurosyphilis – in addition to the presence The second diagnostically challenging group consists of of neurological symptoms and HIV viral load > 400 copies/ strate an elevated CSF/serum treponemal antibody index. of untreated syphilis cases progress to symptomatic neuro- In our cohort, there were 30 patients with abnormal CSF syphilis and that approximately 35% of asymptomatic parameters, but a negative treponemal antibody index. neurosyphilis patients may develop symptomatic disease Among these, 15 of 22 evaluable patients showed clear clin- over time , timely diagnosis and effective treatment are symptom duration ranged from 1 day to 2 months at the laboratory abnormalities in patients without any neurologic time of diagnosis, raising the possibility that intrathecal findings is uncertain . antibody production had not yet developed at the time of An important subgroup of neurosyphilis patients are HIV- lumbar puncture. positive individuals. Our observation that CSF abnormalities 1 3 pronounced in HIV-positive patients aligns with previous to absence of randomized controlled trials and robust longi- evidence indicating that HIV enhances CNS inflammatory tudinal data on long-term outcomes. However, the German responses and susceptibility to opportunistic pathogens [30, guideline explicitly states that doxycycline (2 × 200 mg per 31]. Notably, ocular neurosyphilis was less frequent among day for 28 days) may be considered as an alternative regi- HIV-positive individuals in our cohort. A predomination men in selected cases . Guidelines currently recommend of specific neurosyphilis manifestations in people with a treatment duration of 10–14 days for intravenous penicil- HIV has not been consistently demonstrated in the litera- lin G. Given the occurrence of
