Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


specific neurosyphilis manifestations in people with a treatment duration of 10–14 days for intravenous penicil- HIV has not been consistently demonstrated in the litera- lin G. Given the occurrence of relapses or serofast states, ture. A large Canadian cohort of 251 patients described a Luo et al. compared additional weekly benzathine penicillin higher likelihood of early neurosyphilis among those with injections after standard therapy 14-day i.v. penicillin G for HIV co-infection . In contrast, recent Chinese studies either 3 weeks or > 4 weeks and found that cure – defined as identified meningovascular and asymptomatic presentations > 4-fold RPR decline or reversion to nonreactive – in their as the predominant types in HIV-positive patients , cohort of 264 HIV-negative patients was more frequent in whereas an American cohort reported asymptomatic and the prolonged group at 6 and 12 months . Thus, further ocular neurosyphilis as the most common manifestations in studies on improving cure rates by extending the duration of this population . antibiotic treatment would be of interest. Furthermore, we observed that nearly half of the con- As a single-center, retrospective study, our findings may firmed neurosyphilis cases had a negative CSF VDRL result be subject to referral bias and incomplete data capture. For — a limitation previously described in neurosyphilis diag- example, patients with ocular neurosyphilis in our cohort Consequently, CSF VDRL cannot be relied upon as a stand- ogy, therefore we cannot completely rule out misdiagnosed alone diagnostic tool, underscoring the need for more sensi- patients with ocular neurosyphilis who may not be repre- tive and specific new biomarkers. Several candidates have sented in this cohort. Due to the age of part of the docu- emerged in recent research, including chemokines such as mentation, comprehensive information on transsexuality CXCL13, CXCL10, and CXCL8 – although CXCL- is lacking. Subgroup analyses (e.g., by sex or specific neu- 13 is also an important biomarker for neuroborreliosis . rosyphilis subtype) are underpowered due to the relatively Additional potential biomarkers under investigation include small and heterogenous sample size of the cohort. Some serum homocysteine and immune-based markers such CSF or imaging data were missing, and long-term follow- as the neutrophil CD64 index and neutrophil to lymphocyte up was limited. Future prospective multicenter cohorts, pos- ratio (NLR) . sibly incorporating novel biomarkers (e.g., CXCL13), are Therapeutically, intravenous application of penicillin G needed to validate diagnostic thresholds and correlate labo- is recommended as first
