Neurological Research and Practice (2026) 8:35
KEYWORDS: neurosyphilis, patients, csf, cases, asymptomatic, cohort, serum, hiv, index, syphilis, antibody, symptoms, antibiotic, treatment, median


cohorts, pos- ratio (NLR) . sibly incorporating novel biomarkers (e.g., CXCL13), are Therapeutically, intravenous application of penicillin G needed to validate diagnostic thresholds and correlate labo- is recommended as first line therapy for neurosyphilis by ratory findings with long-term neurologic outcomes. international and German guidelines. Notably, while the In summary, within this large German cohort, neuro- German guideline recommends ceftriaxone as main alter- syphilis most frequently presented as asymptomatic or native, the CDC recommends procaine penicillin G plus ocular disease, while late-stage manifestations such as gen- probenecid and restricts ceftriaxone to situations involv- eral paresis and tabes dorsalis were relatively uncommon. ing penicillin allergy . A recent French multicenter Diagnostic evaluation proved challenging due to the broad among ceftriaxone-treated patients, supporting its use as a emphasizing the need for multimodal diagnostic approaches predominance of penicillin G with ceftriaxone serving as portion of asymptomatic cases would not have been detected main alternative in our cohort aligns with guideline-based under current guideline recommendations, underscoring the practice. Because ceftriaxone was never administered to complexity of identifying early or subtle types of neuro- infections of unclear etiology – in line with the guideline cal improvement following antibiotic therapy, highlighting recommendations on acute bacterial meningitis – and the importance of timely recognition and treatment. Lastly, subsequently continued once neurosyphilis was diagnosed. as the incidence of syphilis continues to rise, maintaining due to penicillin allergy. Although doxycycline has shown be crucial to preventing irreversible neurological sequelae. promising results in several studies , it is not yet 1 3 Supplementary Information The online version contains 7. Jansen, K. B. (2025). V.: Syphilis in Deutschland in den Jahren supplementary material available at h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 1 8 6 / s 4 2 4 6 6 - 0 2023 und 2024. In. 2 6 - 0 0 4 9 7 - 1. 8. Hobbs, E., Vera, J. H., Marks, M., Barritt, A. W., Ridha, B. H., & Lawrence, D. (2018). Neurosyphilis in patients with HIV. Practi- Acknowledgements Not applicable. cal Neurology, 18(3), 211–218. 9. Zhang, R. L., Zhang, X., Du, F. Z., Zhou, Q. Y., Wu, M. Z., Ren, J. J., Zhou, Z., Li, A. L., Li, D. D., Li, H. X., et al. (2024). The Author contributions SDS performed data extraction, statistical anal- performance of a novel diagnostic criteria for neurosyphilis
