SystematicReview
KEYWORDS: review, osteomyelitis, results, comments, nsaids, study, antibiotics, tthhee, studies, used, oral, yes, treatment, tell, hint


1 Identify the report as a systematic review. ABSTRACT Abstract 2 See the PRISMA 2020 for Abstracts checklist. INTRODUCTION Rationale 3 Describe the rationale for the review in the context of existing knowledge. Objectives 4 Provide an explicit statement of the objective(s) or question(s) the review addresses. METHODS Eligibility criteria 5 Specify the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the review and how studies were grouped for the syntheses. Information 6 Specify all databases, registers, websites, organisations, reference lists and other sources searched or consulted to identify studies. Specify the sources date when each source was last searched or consulted. Search strategy 7 Present the full search strategies for all databases, registers and websites, including any filters and limits used. Selection process 8 Specify the methods used to decide whether a study met the inclusion criteria of the review, including how many reviewers screened each record and each report retrieved, whether they worked independently, and if applicable, details of automation tools used in the process. Data collection 9 Specify the methods used to collect data from reports, including how many reviewers collected data from each report, whether they worked process independently, any processes for obtaining or confirming data from study investigators, and if applicable, details of automation tools used in the process. Data items 10a List and define all outcomes for which data were sought. Specify whether all results that were compatible with each outcome domain in each study were sought (e.g. for all measures, time points, analyses), and if not, the methods used to decide which results to collect. 10b List and define all other variables for which data were sought (e.g. participant and intervention characteristics, funding sources). Describe any assumptions made about any missing or unclear information. Study risk of bias 11 Specify the methods used to assess risk of bias in the included studies, including details of the tool(s) used, how many reviewers assessed each assessment study and whether they worked independently, and if applicable, details of automation tools used in the process. Effect measures 12 Specify for each outcome the effect measure(s) (e.g. risk ratio, mean difference) used in the synthesis or presentation of results. Synthesis 13a Describe the processes used to decide which studies were eligible for each synthesis (e.g. tabulating the study intervention characteristics and methods comparing against the planned groups for each synthesis (item #5)). 13b Describe any methods required to prepare the data
