High Frequency of Chronic Bacterial and Non-
KEYWORDS: patients, ibs, prostatitis, symptoms, chronic, category, pain, plus, criteria, score, prevalence, plus ibs, bacterial, frequency, nih-cpsi


or chronic) accounts for a low causes also a variable degree of voiding and/or ejaculatory percentage (5–10%), the most significant proportion of the disturbance . To facilitate history taking and to establish a urologic population studied has chronic non-bacterial prostatitis PLoSONE | www.plosone.org 1 April2011 | Volume 6 | Issue 4 | e18647 InteractionbetweenProstatitisSyndromeandIBS IBS is a functional disorder that affects 10–20% of the CPSI), and 204 patients with IBS, diagnosed according to the population worldwide, varying from 6.2% inThe Netherlands to Rome III diagnostic criteria. The patients with PS were asked to 12%inItalyandtheUK.Itsincidenceis1–2%peryear fulfill the Rome III questionnaire for IBS, whereas patients with .IBSisdefinedbytheRomeIIIcriteriaasanabdominalpain IBS were asked to complete the NIH-CPSI. In patients with PS ordiscomfort,oftenassociatedwithdefecation(whichrelievesthe plus IBS, we then evaluated the prevalence of the various pain),andatleasttwoofthefollowingfeatures:alteredfrequency, diagnostic categories ofprostatitis. consistency, and/or passage of stools; feelings of abdominal distension or bloating . The symptoms have to be present Results for a minimum of three months, and evidence for an organic Of the 152 infertile patients with prostatitis diagnosed by underlyingcausemustbeexcludedtoestablishthediagnosis[10– andrologists,46(30.3%)hadalsoIBS,whereas65(31.9%)outof 13]. The etiopathogenesis, which is not fully understood, may be 204 patients with IBS diagnosed by gastroenterologists had also multifactorial, as it is the pathophysiology, which is attributed to prostatitis, with a median NIH-CPSI score of 14 (range 11–21), alterationsofthegastrointestinalmotility,visceralhypersensitivity, andcouple’sinfertility.AllpatientswithPSandIBS(n=111)and dysfunction of the brain-gut axis (abnormal interactions between the matched-group of the 106 patients with PS alone were exacerbating factors and gastrointestinal function, as well as on categorized to diagnose the various categories of prostatitis and interactionbetweendifferentpartsofournervoussystemandthe underwent semenanalysis. gastrointestinaltract),neuroimmunedysregulation,post-infectious ThemeanagewassimilarinthepatientswithPSplusIBS,PS inflammation or certain psychosocial factors [14–16]. The Rome alone and in the group of fertile normal men (controls), whereas III criteria, in conjunction with a careful anamnesis (medical, the time since diagnosis was higher, though not statistically familiar, and medication assumption) and thorough physical significant,inpatientswithPSplusIBS(Table1).PatientswithPS examination, should be applied as part of the stepwise, plus IBS has a significantly higher total or pain subscale NIH- symptom-based approachtodiagnose IBS. CPSI score compared with all the others groups of patients and AlargenumberofpatientswithIBSisadditionallyafflictedby controls (Table 1). The prevalence of various gastrointestinal other somatic intestinal and/or extraintestinal co-morbidities symptomswassignificantlyhigherinbothgroupsofpatientswith . An elevated percentage of patients with IBS has other PS plus IBS and IBS alone (Table 1). The severity score of somatoform pain and psychiatric syndromes [19–22]. It is not abdominal bowel habits was similar in patients with PS plus IBS clear whether the increase in frequency of extra-intestinal and
