High Frequency of Chronic Bacterial and Non-
KEYWORDS: patients, ibs, prostatitis, symptoms, chronic, category, pain, plus, criteria, score, prevalence, plus ibs, bacterial, frequency, nih-cpsi


of somatoform pain and psychiatric syndromes [19–22]. It is not abdominal bowel habits was similar in patients with PS plus IBS clear whether the increase in frequency of extra-intestinal and IBS alone, but significantly higher than that found patients symptoms reflects a systemic underlying disease with different with PSalone orin thecontrols(Table 2). manifestations in various organs or it is expression of a Thesubtypingofpatientsbyusingthefourglasstest,performedin psychosomaticdisorder.Thebestdocumentednon-gastroin- allpatientswithPSplusIBS(n=111)andinpatientswithPSalone testinal, non-psychiatric disorders affecting IBS patients include: (n=106), allowed to identify the presence of 3 categories of temporo-mandibular joint disorder (64%), chronic fatigue syn- prostatitis.Thefrequencyofchronicbacterialprostatitis(categoryII) drome (51%), chronic pelvic pain (50%), and fibromyalgia (49%) resultedsignificantlyhigherinpatientswithPSplusIBScompared . to those with PS alone (p,0.01), whereas the frequency of non- Littleisknownaboutthepossiblepresenceofco-morbiditiesin inflammatory prostatitis (category IIIB) was significantly lower patients with PS. Some of the most basic information are not (p,0.01).Finally,thefrequencyofinflammatoryprostatitis(category available. For example, population-based, age-specific prevalence IIIA)wassimilarinthe2groups(Table3). and incidence rates for many major urologic diseases are not known. Overlap between symptoms of different urologic condi- Discussion tions [eg, interstitial cystitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS),orCPPSandprostatitis]hasnotbeenadequatelyassessed. It is worth of mention that whileIBS diagnosisis basedon an Only limited population-based information is presently accessible internationalconsensus,suchaconsensusismissingforprostatitis on the epidemiology of major urologic diseases. A smaller syndromes. The second argument to keep in mind it that, in proportion is reported, receives an accurate diagnosis, and is contrast to other syndromes that are usually based on a clear epidemiological metaphor appears useful to understand urologic findings,IBS andPSsymptomsarebasedon patients’subjective symptoms inthegeneral population. report of pain in the lower abdomen in the absence of organic Recently,theresearchhasfocusedontheco-morbiditybetween explanations for it. Despite these limitations, the results of this revealing a strong overlap up to 79% between chronic prostatitis simultaneous presence of PS and IBS is very common being (CP)/CPPS) and symptoms of IBS . Furthermore, studies present in aboutonethird of the patients evaluated andit hada conducted in women showed allergies, urinary incontinence, similar prevalence in patients seeking medical advice for PS or sinusitis, endometriosis, pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), pelvic IBS. This finding confirmed the epidemiological data showing a adhesions most frequently associated with chronic pelvic pain prevalence of altered bowel habits in the 31.4% of 379 patients .Incontrast,thefewdataavailableinmenwithCP/CPPS with chronic prostatitis and the presence of prostate congestion showedallergies,sinusitis,erectiledysfunctionandIBSamongthe and swelling closely related to altered bowel habits in these most common co-morbidities . Li and co-workers found that patients . We observed that the gastrointestinal symptoms theincidenceofalteredbowelhabitswaspresentin31.4%of379 and the severity score was similar in patients with PS
