High Frequency of Chronic Bacterial and Non-
KEYWORDS: patients, ibs, prostatitis, symptoms, chronic, category, pain, plus, criteria, score, prevalence, plus ibs, bacterial, frequency, nih-cpsi


time;4,.75%ofthetime,butnotalways;5,always). clinically and based on microbiological tests following the Theassociationoftwoormoreofthefollowingsymptoms,with consensus criteria of theNIH. recurrent abdominalpainordiscomfortinat least3days/month FortheMearesandStameytest,weconsideredthetestpositive inlast3months,wereconsideredIBS(criteriafulfilledforthelast iftherewasa10-foldincreaseinbacteriaintheEPSorintheVB3 3monthswithsymptomonsetatleast6monthspriortodiagnosis): samples compared with the VB1 and VB2 specimens. All the 1)improvementwithdefecation;2)onsetassociatedwithachange samples of this study were centrifuged and seeded on blood agar in frequency of stool; 3) onset associated with a change in form and McConkey media with standard biochemical tests to (consistency) ofstool. characterize bacteria. Microbiological evaluation included micro- Atthebeginningofthestudy,allpatientswereevaluatedbythe scopic evaluation of VB1 with cytological analysis for leukocytes same staff of andrologists, using a standardized history, physical , quantitative culture methods for relevant pathogen bacteria examination, and symptom score evaluation with the NIH-CPSI (including Enterobacteriaceae, mycoplasmas, C. trachomatis and questionnaire. Symptoms suggestive of PS included: pain or Candidaspp.)inurethraldischargesmearsandinVB1andeither: discomfort, for at least 3 months in the previous 6 months, in the C. trachomatis positive in VB1 and/or urethral smears, or pubicorbladderarea,perineum,testicles,atthetipofthepenisnot presence of common bacteria, mycoplasmas, or yeasts with a related to urination; ejaculatory pain, pain or burning during concentration $104CFU/ml in the urethral discharge and/or urination,incompleteemptying,andurinaryfrequency.TheNIH- $103CFU/ml in VB1, were considered criteria for diagnosis CPSI is a validated scale to measure these symptoms which . Additionally, inflammatory WBCs were counted on four- commonly uses 13-item for the assessment of symptom severity in glass specimens and semen using the more stringent composite menwithPS,focusingonthethreedomainsof:1)painordiscomfort criteria (10+ in EPS, 5+ in VB3) described by Schaeffer and (8items);2)urinarysymptoms(2items);and3)quality-of-life(QOL) colleagues . impact(3items).Ithasatotalscorerangefrom0to43,andincludes 3 subscales addressing pain (score range 0–21), urinary symptoms Statistical Analysis (scorerange0–10),andQOL(scorerange0–12).Thepainsubscale Results are shown as mean6SD throughout the text unless consists of six items which are each scored from 0 to 1, one item otherwiseindicated.TheStudent’sttestwasusedtocomparethe whichisscoredfrom0to5,andoneitemwhichisscoredfrom0to distribution of demographic, symptomatic and sperm variables. 10. The urinary subscale consists of two items, each of which is The frequency of clinical and microbiological findings between scoredfrom0to3.TheQoLsubscaleincludestwoitemsthatare groupswereanalyzedbythechi-squaretestorFisher’sexacttest, scoredfrom0to3,andoneitemthatisscoredfrom0to6.More asappropriate.Thesub-analysisofsemenvariables,becauseofthe specifically,mildsymptomsweredefinedbyapainscoreof4–7and non-Gaussian distribution of the semen variables studied, were moderateorseveresymptomsbyapainscoreof$8.Symptomsand expressed as median and 10th and 90th percentiles and processed theireffectswerealsogroupedasmild,moderateandsevereifCPSI using non parametric tests (Mann-Whitney test). The software scoresrangedfrom0to14,15to30and31to43,respectively.The SPSS 9.0 for Windows was used for statistical evaluation. A combined pain and urinary symptom score was then categorized statistically significant difference was accepted when the p value intomild(0to9),moderate(10to16)andsevere(17to31). was lowerthan 0.05. Categorization of prostatitis syndromes (PS). Since the symptoms of chronic bacterial prostatitis (category II) cannot be distinguished from those of CP/CPPS (category IIIA and IIIB), Author Contributions followinganinitialscreening,allpatientswithsuspectedPS(NIH- Conceived and designed the experiments: EV AEC. Performed the CPSI score
