Subacute Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, elevated, graves, patients, painful, usually, pfsat, sat, low, table, disease, diagnosis


CLINICAL RECOGNITION Subacute thyroiditis (SAT) is an inflammatory condition of the thyroid with characteristic presentations and clinical course. Patients with the classic, painful (DeQuervain’s; Granulomatous) thyroiditis, (PFSAT) typically present with painful swelling of the thyroid. Transient vocal cord paresis may occur. At times, the pain begins and may be confined to the one lobe, but usually spreads rapidly to involve the rest of the gland ("creeping thyroiditis"). Pain may radiate to the jaw or the ears. Malaise, fatigue, myalgia and arthralgia are common. A mild to moderate fever is expected, and at times a high fever of 104°F (40.0°C) may occur. The disease process may reach its peak within 3 to 4 days and subside and disappear within a week, but more typically, onset extends over 1 to 2 weeks and continues with fluctuating intensity for 3 to 6 weeks. The thyroid gland is typically enlarged, smooth, firm and tender to palpation, sometimes exquisitely so. Approximately one-half of the patients present during the first weeks of the illness, with symptoms of thyrotoxicosis. Subsequently patients often experience hypothyroidism before returning to normal (see figure 1 ). This painful condition lasts for a week to a few months, usually demonstrates a very high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), elevated C- reactive protein (CRP) levels and has a tendency to recur. Painless (silent, autoimmune) subacute thyroiditis (PLSAT) occurs spontaneously or following pregnancy when it is referred to as postpartum thyroiditis [PPT]). Autoimmune thyroiditis is histologically similar to Hashimoto's thyroiditis and occurs following 3.9-10% of pregnancies. The combination of thyroid enlargement usually without discomfort and, positive anti-thyroid antibodies, associated with typical thyroid function test abnormalities (see figure 1 ), over a 9-12 month course should alert the clinician to the presence of PLSAT. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY A tendency for the painful form of the disease to follow upper respiratory tract infections or sore throats has suggested a viral infection. An autoimmune reaction is possible as patients with PFSAT often manifest HLA-Bw35 and those with PLSAT are frequently TPO or TG-ab positive. In both forms, clinical thyroid symptoms result from either the initial release of thyroid hormone from the inflamed tissue during the thyrotoxic phase or the lack of circulating thyroid hormones in the hypothyroid phase (See figure 1 ). Medications associated with SAT outlined in table 4 . Figure 1. Time Course of Subacute Thyroiditis DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Subacute thyroiditis is a diagnosis made clinically. Anterior
