Subacute Thyroiditis
KEYWORDS: thyroiditis, thyroid, subacute, subacute thyroiditis, elevated, graves, patients, painful, usually, pfsat, sat, low, table, disease, diagnosis


1 ). Medications associated with SAT outlined in table 4 . Figure 1. Time Course of Subacute Thyroiditis DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Subacute thyroiditis is a diagnosis made clinically. Anterior neck pain, preceded by an upper respiratory inflammation, alerts the clinician to the classic PFSAT. Differential diagnostic considerations include acute (suppurative, thyroid abscess) thyroiditis (see table 1 ), which is usually a painful nodular enlargement of the thyroid or unusual presentations of Graves’ or nodular thyroid disease (see table 2 below) with pain generated by capsular stretching. Thyroid function tests (see table 3 ) during the painful (initial) phase of SAT often reveal a suppressed TSH and elevation of total T4 and T3 levels consistent with the thyrotoxic state. T3 (ng/dl) to T4 (ug/dl) ratio is less than 20 in all forms of SAT. ESR is almost always greater than 50, WBC counts and CRP levels are usually elevated in PFSAT. PLSAT (including PPT) is typically associated with the presence of anti-thyroid peroxidase (TPO-ab) and thyroglobulin (Tg-ab) antibodies, both of which are usually absent or present only in low titers in PFSAT. Thyrotropin receptor antibodies (TRAb) are usually positive in Graves' disease and absent or low level in patients with PFSAT as well as PPT. Radioactive iodine uptake and scan typically reveals a low RAIU and poor visualization of the thyroid in PFSAT and PLSAT whereas significant uptake is expected in Graves’ disease (GD) or toxic nodular goiters (TNG). PLSAT must be differentiated from other forms of low uptake thyrotoxicosis (see Table 2 ), iatrogenically (factitious [l-thyroxine (LT4), l-triiodothyronine (LT3) or T4/T3 combination (animal extract)] induced thyrotoxicosis results in a suppressed thyroglobulin (TG) level. Ectopic thyroid hormone production in a Struma Ovarii or functional metastatic thyroid cancer can be detected with total body scanning. Iodine contamination after a contrast enhanced CT, obliterates the RAIU and obscures the presence of the more frequently encountered Graves’ disease or a toxic multinodular goiter. A recent CT scan will frequently alert the clinician to this artifact. Urine iodine measurement can quantify the degree of iodine contamination present. Thyroid ultrasound typically shows a heterogeneously hypoechoic pattern and has a suppressed vascular pattern in SAT while patients with Graves’ demonstrate hyper-vascularity. The presence of thyroid nodules supports the presence of a toxic nodular goiter. Localized PFSAT, can be suggestive of thyroid cancer. Usually the pain, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and leukocytosis, and clinical remission or spread
