Rare disease
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, biopsy, disease, diagnosis, involvement, case, amyloid, multiple, figure, systemic, tract, myeloma, endoscopic, light


Rare disease Case report Symptomatic involvement of the stomach and duodenum as initial presentation of AL amyloidosis Faisal Inayat, 1 asad Ur rahman,2 effa Zahid,3 Nouman safdar ali,1 roger Charles2 Lahore, pakistan primary systemic or amyloid light chain (aL) amyloidosis tionally, this paper outlines our current under- Weston, Florida, Usa although it can involve the upper gastrointestinal tract AL amyloidosis with GI involvement, the patho- 3services Institute of Medical in 8% of cases, symptomatic involvement is exceedingly physiology of this disorder and currently available sciences, Lahore, pakistan rare. We chronicle here a case of postprandial epigastric approaches to diagnosis and management. pain associated with aL amyloidosis involving the Correspondence to Dr Faisal Inayat, stomach and duodenum. pathological examination of CaSe preSenTaTion faisalinayat@ hotmail. com endoscopic biopsy using Congo red staining confirmed A 56-year-old woman hailing from the Caribbean the diagnosis. In order to establish the underlying was referred to the gastroenterology office for accepted 29 December 2018 aetiology of aL amyloidosis, the patient underwent evaluation of a several-week history of progres- extensive workup. eventually, she was diagnosed sive postprandial epigastric abdominal pain. She with multiple myeloma based on the standard set of reported accompanying early satiety, nausea, investigations. this paper underscores the importance of vomiting and 40-pound weight loss. She denied clinical suspicion of amyloidosis in patients presenting dysphagia, odynophagia, melena, haematochezia with non-specific gastrointestinal symptoms and and use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs highlights the role of endoscopic biopsy to confirm the or steroids. Medical history was significant for amyloid deposition. since gastrointestinal amyloidosis long-standing hypertension, along with a recent is a disease with a poor prognosis, early diagnosis and diagnosis of heart failure and paroxysmal atrial treatment are particularly warranted. flutter. She did not smoke, consume alcohol or use any illicit substances. She had not undergone an upper endoscopy or gastric emptying study in the BaCkground past. Her family history was negative for cancer. Systemic amyloidosis is a group of complex disor- At presentation, the patient was haemodynamically ders characterised by the extracellular deposition of stable. Abdominal examination ruled out hepa- non-branching fibrils, ultimately leading to isolated tosplenomegaly, tenderness or shifting dullness. or multiorgan dysfunction. Gastrointestinal (GI) The remaining examination demonstrated mild involvement in amyloidosis varies depending on the conjunctival pallor. No cervical or supraclavicular subtype of the disease.1–5 Amyloid A (AA) amyloi- lymphadenopathy was appreciated. dosis affects GI tract in 60% of patients whereas 1%–8% of patients with
