Rare disease
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, biopsy, disease, diagnosis, involvement, case, amyloid, multiple, figure, systemic, tract, myeloma, endoscopic, light


conjunctival pallor. No cervical or supraclavicular subtype of the disease.1–5 Amyloid A (AA) amyloi- lymphadenopathy was appreciated. dosis affects GI tract in 60% of patients whereas 1%–8% of patients with amyloid light chain (AL) inveSTigaTionS amyloidosis have GI infiltration.6 7 Although GI Laboratory testing revealed normocytic, normo- vascular involvement has been observed frequently, chromic anaemia (haemoglobin: 79 g/L). Complete interstitial GI tract disease with concomitant symp- metabolic panel was within normal limits (serum toms and biopsy evidence is rare. In symptomatic calcium: 10.1 g/dL). CT abdomen ordered by the with biopsy facilitates early detection as histopatho- concentric thickening of the gastric antrum and logical evidence of AL amyloidosis is necessary pylorus (figure 1). There was associated diffuse for diagnosis. The common clinical presentations mesenteric and retroperitoneal fat infiltration with include oesophageal reflux, constipation, nausea no evidence of abnormalities in the liver or kidney. and abdominal pain. Other notable symptoms Moreover, no elevation in serum levels of alkaline are diarrhoea, weight loss and early satiety.8–12 GI phosphatase and creatinine was noted. On dipstick amyloid deposits detected by endoscopic biopsy urine analysis, proteinuria was not detected. Due © BMJ publishing Group occur frequently in the duodenum followed by to the symptoms of epigastric abdominal pain, Limited 2019. No commercial the stomach, colon, rectum and oesophagus.13 14 weight loss and significant radiographic findings, re-use. see rights and permissions. published by BMJ. However, the data on amyloidosis localised to the an oesophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed. digestive tract are still limited to case reports and It showed nodularity extending from the gastric To cite: Inayat F, small series of patients.15 16 antrum and pylorus up till the second portion of Ur rahman a, Zahid e, Herein, we describe the case of a female who the duodenum (figures 2 and 3). Multiple biopsies et al. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e227550. presented with postprandial abdominal pain. Endo- were obtained from these areas. doi:- scopic biopsy helped to establish the diagnosis of AL Histopathological examination of the gastric 227550 amyloidosis and subsequently, multiple myeloma biopsy showed no evidence of atypical cells Inayat F, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e227550. doi: 1 rare disease figure 1 Contrast-enhanced CT abdomen showing gastric wall figure 3 Endoscopic appearance of the duodenum demonstrating thickening (arrow). nodular, thickened folds. but there was substantial extracellular matrix deposi- underlying malignancy, hypertrophic gastropathy, infiltrative tion (figure 4). Furthermore, biopsy specimen from the disorders such as amyloidosis and sarcoidosis,
