Rare disease
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, biopsy, disease, diagnosis, involvement, case, amyloid, multiple, figure, systemic, tract, myeloma, endoscopic, light


(arrow). nodular, thickened folds. but there was substantial extracellular matrix deposi- underlying malignancy, hypertrophic gastropathy, infiltrative tion (figure 4). Furthermore, biopsy specimen from the disorders such as amyloidosis and sarcoidosis, and infections duodenum also showed submucosal deposits (figure 5). The such as tuberculosis. On the basis of histopathological findings, Congo red staining was positive for the characteristic apple- the most likely cause was amyloidosis in this patient. However, green birefringence, confirming the presence of amyloid due to the associated cardiomyopathy, mild anaemia and hyper- deposits (figure 6). In order to further assess the underlying calcaemia, there was a concern for monoclonal gammopathy as aetiology of amyloidosis, we proceeded with serum protein the underlying aetiology of AL amyloidosis. The diagnosis of electrophoresis. It revealed elevated serum free kappa light multiple myeloma was confirmed based on multisystem involve- chains (2780 mg/dL), low free lambda light chains (62 mg/ ment with evidence of end-organ damage, an increased kappa dL) and elevated kappa/lambda ratio (44.84). Bone marrow free light chains and elevated kappa/lambda ratio with very low aspiration was performed to further investigate mono- serum free lambda light chains, and bone marrow aspiration clonal gammopathy. It showed increased cellularity with demonstrating significant plasma cytosis. 30%–60% plasma cells. Echocardiography showed ejection fraction of 37% with sparkling myocardium, suspicious for TreaTmenT cardiac amyloidosis. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging The patient underwent cardioversion for atrial flutter. She showed changes consistent with infiltrative cardiomyopathy, remained in sinus rhythm thereafter. The delayed-release metop- which was in congruence with systemic amyloidosis. rolol therapy was continued. Due to tenuous blood pressure and underlying infiltrative cardiomyopathy, addition of ACE differenTial diagnoSiS inhibitors was not recommended. After the diagnosis of multiple Differential diagnosis for diffuse nodularity observed on endo- scopic examination of the stomach and duodenum include figure 4 Biopsy of gastric tissue demonstrating significant stromal figure 2 Upper endoscopy demonstrating mucosal thickening in the soft tissue deposits with no evidence of mucosal atypia (H&E staining; stomach. x100). 2 Inayat F, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e227550. doi: rare disease their combinations in antiparallel beta-pleated sheets.2 Amyloi- dosis is a disease that can present with systemic or localised organ involvement. Primary and secondary amyloidosis are the more frequently encountered systemic subtypes. Primary or AL amyloidosis mostly occurs as a stand-alone disorder or in association with multiple myeloma, with the deposited fibrils composed of immunoglobulin light-chain subunits. Secondary or AA amyloidosis results from chronic inflammatory
