Rare disease
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, biopsy, disease, diagnosis, involvement, case, amyloid, multiple, figure, systemic, tract, myeloma, endoscopic, light


amyloidosis mostly occurs as a stand-alone disorder or in association with multiple myeloma, with the deposited fibrils composed of immunoglobulin light-chain subunits. Secondary or AA amyloidosis results from chronic inflammatory processes that increase the levels of acute-phase reactant, serum amyloid A (SAA), with the deposited fibrils comprising SAA subunits. Furthermore, dialysis-related disease, heritable and senile amyloidosis are other systemic subtypes. We present here a case of multiple myeloma-associated AL amyloidosis with symptom- atic stomach and duodenal involvement, which is an extremely rare clinical entity.3 The epidemiology of amyloidosis is incompletely assessed owing to rarity of the condition, the wide spectrum of aetiologies figure 5 Photomicrograph of the biopsy of the duodenum showing morphism encoding amyloid precursors as well as prevalence of submucosal deposits (H&E staining; x100). aetiologies such as local infections and autoimmune disorders that predispose to chronic inflammation vary in different regions in the world. Therefore, these factors potentially confound the myeloma, treatment with cyclophosphamide, bortezomib and assessment of global incidence. According to one estimate, the dexamethasone (CyBorD) was initiated. annual incidence of amyloidosis in the USA is approximately 2200 cases.4 However, symptomatic amyloidosis involving GI ouTCome and follow-up tract is a rare, diverse and a difficult condition.5 In a case series One month ago, the patient successfully completed third cycle of 769 patients with biopsy-proven AL amyloidosis, GI disease of CyBorD therapy, without any remarkable adverse events. was noted in 8% while symptomatic stomach involvement was However, she required hospitalisation for volume overload present in only 1% of the cases.6 In secondary amyloidosis, about due to congestive heart failure, necessitating intravenous 60% of the patients can demonstrate GI involvement.7 8 Systemic diuretic therapy. Her tenuous blood pressure precludes maxi- AL amyloidosis was observed as the most common cause of GI misation of medical therapy for heart failure. Due to underlying amyloidosis with 50 of the 76 biopsy-proven cases having immu- multiple myeloma, she is currently not a candidate for heart noglobulin light chains.9 It has been reported that 98% of the transplantation. patients with amyloidosis will have subclinical GI disease and 50% of the patients with GI involvement will have symptomatic diSCuSSion disease.10 However, symptomatic AL amyloidosis with subse- Amyloidosis is a broad term used for a group of uncommon quent biopsy evidence, as in the present case, has been docu- disorders that cause structural and functional organ dysfunction mented only in a handful of case reports thus
