Rare disease
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, biopsy, disease, diagnosis, involvement, case, amyloid, multiple, figure, systemic, tract, myeloma, endoscopic, light


of uncommon quent biopsy evidence, as in the present case, has been docu- disorders that cause structural and functional organ dysfunction mented only in a handful of case reports thus far. with anomalous extracellular deposition of abnormally-folded The clinical presentation of GI amyloidosis is mostly domi- peptide derivatives.1 These amyloid deposits are composed nated by abdominal pain, heartburn, weight loss, malabsorp- of insoluble fibrils that are generated as a result of abnormal tion, GI bleed, reflux, diarrhoea and/or vomiting.11 12 In patients conformational changes in the soluble protein subunits and with hepatic involvement, jaundice, anorexia and/or steator- rhoea have also been reported. In a retrospective study specifically conducted on patients with AL amyloidosis with GI involvement, a median delay of 7 months was observed in the diagnosis.13 The most frequent clinical presentation was weight loss (median: 7 kg), which was followed by diarrhoea.13 14 In prior research, it is a well-established clinical fact that the deposition of extra- cellular amyloid causes organ dysfunction, resulting in signs and symptoms of the disease. In patients with GI involvement, the development of the clinical features is explained variably. Diar- rhoea and malabsorption are observed in AA amyloidosis due to the frequent mucosal infiltration observed in these patients. GI obstruction, heartburn and bleeding are more common in AL amyloidosis owing to the involvement of muscularis mucosa in this subtype.15 Although relatively less frequent, gastropa- resis may occur in both subtypes secondary to neuromuscular infiltration and dysfunctional intestinal contractility. In patients with primary amyloidosis involving GI tract, white-light or chromoendoscopy features can be deceptive and non-specific.16 The findings in the stomach can easily mimic figure 6 Histopathological analysis of gastric specimen showing gastric malignancy, rugal thickening, gastritis, ulcers and/or apple-green birefringence consistent with amyloid deposits (Congo red erosions.17–19 In a study of 30 participants with small intestinal staining; x10). amyloidosis, endoscopic features like thickening of the valvulae Inayat F, et al. BMJ Case Rep 2019;12:e227550. doi: 3 rare disease conniventes and polypoid mucosal protrusions were associated outcome of AL amyloidosis include the presence and severity of with AL amyloidosis (P<0.001) whereas fine-granular appear- cardiac involvement and the presence of concurrent myeloma. ance, erosions and mucosal friability were the more dominant findings in AA cases (P<0.001).20 However, it is considerably learning points difficult to establish the diagnosis of GI amyloidosis on endos- copy alone as several studies showed no clear correlation ► Gastrointestinal infiltration is common
