Rare disease
KEYWORDS: amyloidosis, patients, biopsy, disease, diagnosis, involvement, case, amyloid, multiple, figure, systemic, tract, myeloma, endoscopic, light


However, it is considerably learning points difficult to establish the diagnosis of GI amyloidosis on endos- copy alone as several studies showed no clear correlation ► Gastrointestinal infiltration is common in systemic between endoscopic features and the disease.21 22 amyloidosis and it should be suspected in affected patients Endoscopic biopsy and appropriate pathological staining presenting with non-specific symptoms. are vital for the diagnosis. AL amyloidosis can involve the ► A clinical presentation suggestive of amyloidosis must muscularis mucosa, submucosa or muscularis propria, but these be evaluated by electrophoresis (serum and urine) and changes may not be confluent. Therefore, in order to increase the immunofixation. diagnostic yield, multiple endoscopic biopsies are recommended ► While performing histopathological examination of from both the upper GI tract and large intestine for detection of the endoscopic biopsy specimens, amyloid light chain AL kappa and AL lambda amyloidosis, respectively.23 The histo- amyloidosis should be considered in the differentials; apple- pathological analysis of the biopsy specimen with Congo red green birefringence and red staining with Congo red are stain is gold standard for confirmation of the diagnosis. Apple- pathognomonic findings. green birefringence and red staining with Congo red are pathog- ► In these patients, amyloid subtype and extent of involvement nomonic findings in these cases. Abdominal fat tissue aspirate determine the therapeutic regimen. However, supportive has specificity of up to 100% and sensitivity of up to 73% in measures remain the mainstay of treatment for the cases of AL amyloidosis.24 Rectal biopsy also has a sensitivity gastrointestinal symptoms of this disease. of up to 85%.25 A bone marrow biopsy is necessary to establish the diagnosis of plasma cell dyscrasias when suspecting systemic Contributors FI: designed the study, performed the literature review, drafted amyloidosis. Elevated kappa/lambda light chain ratio after elec- the manuscript, reviewed the manuscript and made important modifications. aUr: trophoresis measurements and urinary Bence-Jones proteins drafted the manuscript, revised the manuscript critically for important intellectual support the diagnosis of multiple myeloma. It is imperative that content and gave the final approval for the version published. eZ: drafted the the patients with AL amyloidosis who have initial presentations manuscript and contributed to the case presentation. Nsa: reviewed the literature and drafted the manuscript. rC: revised the manuscript and suggested pertinent related to GI tract should also undergo screening for cardiac and modifications. renal disease. funding the authors have not declared a specific grant for this research from
