Limb pain
KEYWORDS: pain, limb, findings, deep, ischemia, causes, acute, patients, index, arterial, radiculopathy, neurologic, distribution, infection, chronic


unusual use, and factors that worsen pain (eg, limb movement, walking) and relieve pain (eg, rest, certain positions) should be noted. Any associated neurologic symptoms (eg, numbness, paresthesias) should be identified. Review of systems should seek symptoms of possible causes, including back or neck pain (radiculopathy), fever (infections such as osteomyelitis, cellulitis, or deep soft-tissue infection), dyspnea (DVT with pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction), and chest pain or sweating (myocardial ischemia). Past medical history should identify known risk factors, including cancer (metastatic bone tumors); immunocompromising disorders or medications (infections); hypercoagulable states (DVT); diabetes; peripheral vascular disease, hypercholesterolemia, and/or hypertension (acute or chronic ischemia); osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis (radiculopathy); and prior injury (complex regional pain syndrome). Family and social history should address family history of early vascular disease and cigarette smoking (limb or myocardial ischemia) and illicit use of parenteral drugs (infections). Physical examination 5/9 Vital signs are reviewed for fever (suggesting infection) and tachycardia and/or tachypnea (compatible with DVT with pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, and infection with sepsis). The painful limb is inspected for color, edema, and any skin or hair changes, and palpated for pulses, temperature, tenderness, and crepitation (a subtle crackling sensation indicating soft-tissue gas). Strength, sensation and deep tendon reflexes are compared between affected and unaffected sides. Systolic blood pressure (BP) is measured in the ankle of the affected extremity and compared with systolic BP of an arm; the ratio of the two is the ankle-brachial index. Red flags Sudden, severe pain Signs of acute limb ischemia (eg, coolness, pallor, pulse deficits, delayed capillary refill) Dyspnea, chest pain, and/or sweating Signs of systemic toxicity (eg, delirium, tachycardia, shock, pallor) Crepitation, tenseness, foul discharge, bullae, necrosis Risk factors for deep venous thrombosis Neurologic deficits Interpretation of findings Streptococcal Cellulitis It can be helpful to categorize pain by acuity of symptom onset and then further narrow the differential diagnosis based on presence or absence of findings of Ischemia Inflammation Neurologic abnormalities 6/9 Sudden, severe pain suggests acute ischemia or acute radiculopathy (eg, due to sudden disc herniation). Acute ischemia causes generalized limb pain and manifests with weak or absent pulse, delayed capillary refill (≥ 2 seconds or, with unilateral symptoms, longer than the opposite side), coolness, and pallor; ankle-brachial index is typically < 0.3. Such vascular signs are absent with radiculopathy, in which pain instead follows a dermatomal distribution and is often accompanied by back or neck pain and diminished
