Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Strüngmann Forum Reports Julia Lupp, series editor The Ernst Strüngmann Forum is made possible through the generous support of the Ernst Strüngmann Foundation, inaugurated by Dr. Andreas and Dr. Thomas Strüngmann. This Forum was supported by funds from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Science Foundation) Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases Edited by Jerome O. Nriagu and Eric P. Skaar Program Advisory Committee: Rodney R. Dietert, Julia Lupp, Jerome O. Nriagu, Lothar Rink, Anthony B. Schryvers, and Eric P. Skaar The MIT Press Cambridge, Massachusetts London, England © 2015 Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies Series Editor: J. Lupp Assistant Editor: M. Turner Photographs: U. Dettmar Lektorat: BerlinScienceWorks All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form by electronic or mechanical means (including photocopying, recording, or information storage and retrieval) without permission in writing from the publisher. MIT Press books may be purchased at special quantity discounts for business or sales promotional use. For information, please email . The book was set in TimesNewRoman and Arial. Printed and bound in the United States of America. Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Trace metals and infectious diseases / edited by Jerome O. Nriagu and Eric P. Skaar. pages cm. — (Strüngmann Forum reports) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 978-0-262-02919-3 (hardcover : alk. paper) 1. Trace elements—Toxicology. 2. Trace elements—Environmental aspects. 3. Communicable diseases. I. Nriagu, Jerome O., editor II. Skaar, Eric P. (Eric Patrick), editor. TD196.T7T725 2015 614.4—dc23 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 vi Contents 12 Obesity, Trace Metals, and Infection 185 Jerome O. Nriagu 13 Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 199 Dieter Rehder, Robert E. Black, Julia Bornhorst, Rodney R. Dietert, Victor J. DiRita, Maribel Navarro, Robert D. Perry, Lothar Rink, Eric P. Skaar, Miguel C. P. Soares, Dennis J. Thiele, Fudi Wang, Günter Weiss, and Inga Wessels Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 14 Selenium and Mercury: Their Interactions and Roles in 229 Living Organisms Tamara García-Barrera 15 New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern 239 Jozef M. Pacyna, Kyrre Sundseth, and Elisabeth G. Pacyna 16 The Promise of Nanometals: Reducing Infection and 257 Increasing Biocompatibility Mian Wang, Wenwen Liu, and Thomas J. Webster 17 Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious 271 Diseases: Gaps and Opportunities M. Leigh Ackland, Julia Bornhorst, George V. Dedoussis, Rodney R. Dietert,
