Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and Thomas J. Webster 17 Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious 271 Diseases: Gaps and Opportunities M. Leigh Ackland, Julia Bornhorst, George V. Dedoussis, Rodney R. Dietert, Jerome O. Nriagu, Jozef M. Pacyna, and John M. Pettifor Methods and Technologies for Analyzing Trace Metals in Biological Systems 18 Emerging Strategies in Metalloproteomics 311 Peter-Leon Hagedoorn 19 Measuring Metals in Complex Biological Systems 323 Andreas Matusch, Ana-Maria Oros-Peusquens, and J. Sabine Becker 20 Methods and Technologies for Studying Metals 341 in Biological Systems Wolfgang Maret, Joseph A. Caruso, Christopher H. Contag, David P. Giedroc, Peter-Leon Hagedoorn, Andreas Matusch, Eric P. Skaar, and Richard B. Thompson List of Acronyms 403 Bibliography 407 Subject Index 477 The Ernst Strüngmann Forum Founded on the tenets of scientifi c independence and the inquisitive nature of the human mind, the Ernst Strüngmann Forum is dedicated to the continual expansion of knowledge. Through its innovative communication process, the Ernst Strüngmann Forum provides a creative environment within which ex- perts scrutinize high-priority issues from multiple vantage points. This process begins with the identifi cation of themes. By nature, a theme constitutes a problem area that transcends classic disciplinary boundaries. It is of high-priority interest, requiring concentrated, multidisciplinary input to ad- dress the issues. Proposals are received from leading scientists active in their fi eld and reviewed by an independent Scientifi c Advisory Board. Once ap- proved, we convene a steering committee to refi ne the scientifi c parameters of the proposal and select participants. Approximately one year later, a central gathering, or Forum, is held to which circa forty experts are invited. Preliminary discussion for this theme began in 2012. Impetus behind this theme was the growing concern that human beings may inadvertently be con- tributing to an epidemic of trace metal defi ciency—one that affects billions of people worldwide and is especially prevalent in developing countries. From January 26–29, 2013, the Program Advisory Committee met to transform the approved proposal into a working scientifi c framework that would support the ensuing discussion. The collective expertise and international experience of the committee members— Rodney R. Dietert, Jerome O. Nriagu, Lothar Rink, Anthony B. Schryvers, and Eric P. Skaar—were instrumental in refi ning the issues for debate. From January 19–24, 2014, the Forum was held in Frankfurt am Main. The activities and discourse that surround a Forum begin well beforehand and conclude with the publication of
