Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


debate. From January 19–24, 2014, the Forum was held in Frankfurt am Main. The activities and discourse that surround a Forum begin well beforehand and conclude with the publication of this volume. Throughout each stage, focused dialog is the means by which issues are examined anew. Often, this requires relinquishing long-established ideas and overcoming disciplinary idiosyncra- sies that might otherwise bias or inhibit joint examination. When this is accom- plished, synergism results from which new insights can emerge. This volume conveys the ideas and input of a diverse group of experts, each of whom assumed an active role, and it is comprised of two types of contributions. The fi rst set provides background information on key aspects of the overall theme. Originally written in advance of the Forum, these chapters have been extensively reviewed and revised to provide current understanding on these key topics. The second set (Chapters 7, 13, 17, and 20) summarizes the extensive group discussions that transpired. These chapters should not be viewed as consensus documents nor are they proceedings; their purpose is to transfer the essence of the multifaceted discussions, to expose areas where opinions diverge and open questions remain, and to highlight topics in need of future enquiry. viii The Ernst Strüngmann Forum An endeavor of this kind creates its own unique dynamics and puts demands on everyone who participates. Invitees must embrace the process with a will- ingness to probe beyond that which is evident, and I wish to extend my grati- tude to all. A special word of thanks goes to the Program Advisory Committee as well as to the authors and reviewers of the background papers. The work of the moderators of the individual working groups (Robert Perry, Robert Black, Ellen Silbergeld, and Joseph Caruso) is gratefully acknowledged. In addition, I am especially grateful to the rapporteurs (Jennifer Cavet, Dieter Rehder, Leigh Ackland, and Wolfgang Maret), who drafted the group reports during the Forum and brought them to their fi nal form. Most importantly, I extend my sincere appreciation to Jerome Nriagu and Eric Skaar, chairpersons of this 16th ES Forum. Their commitment and steady guidance throughout the entire process ensured a most vibrant intellectual gathering. A communication process of this nature relies on institutional stability and an environment that encourages free thought. The generous support of the Ernst Strüngmann Foundation, established by Dr. Andreas and Dr. Thomas Strüngmann in honor of
