Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Canada Visbal, Gonzalo Directoria de Metrologia Aplicada á ciências da vida, Instituto Nacional de Metrologia, Normalização e Qualidade Industrial, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Wang, Fudi Laboratory of Nutrition and Metabolism, Center for Nutrition Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia xii List of Contributors Innsbruck, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria of Florida Gainesville, FL 32611-0370, U.S.A. Canada Zhang, Lihong Laboratory of Nutrition and Metabolism, Center for Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Introduction Jerome O. Nriagu and Eric P. Skaar The presence of a safe and adequate supply of trace metals in the environment is an evolutionary pressure that has constrained host–microbe relationships. All life forms need trace metals for n utrition and proliferation, and all organ- isms have evolved mechanisms to harvest the required amount of trace metals from the available pool in their particular environmental niche. This applies especially to pathogens which colonize host tissues and cause disease, and which have evolved highly effi cient nutrient retrieval strategies to counteract trace metal deprivation by the host. In response to metal deprivation, patho- gens elaborate elegant strategies to liberate and acquire trace metals required for growth. Additionally, under stress from t race metal defi ciency, the demand of the invading parasites for the host’s pool of trace metals can increase patho- genesis and disease (Abu-Kwaik and Bumann 2013). It is conceivable that these host–pathogen relationships are increasingly affected by the recent modi- fi cations of the natural biogeochemical cycles of trace metals in ways that may be signifi cantly altering the type and levels of metals in the human host. These human-induced changes in environmental accumulation of toxic metals and depletion of essential trace elements in soils, water, and the food chain tend to be most intense in countries that have the highest b urden of infectious diseases . We thus have an ongoing experiment of concurrent ex- posure of human populations to emerging metals, high levels of toxic metals and/or suboptimal amounts of e ssential metals, along with pathogenic organ- isms responsible for endemic infections in many countries. The consequences of this growing mutualism (of c oexposure to metals and pathogens) on the pathogenesis of infectious diseases have been largely neglected. Infectious diseases themselves can increase human susceptibility to the ad- verse effects of metal exposure, likely moderated through the immunological system and by chronic infl ammation induced by the infection (Winans
