Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


diseases themselves can increase human susceptibility to the ad- verse effects of metal exposure, likely moderated through the immunological system and by chronic infl ammation induced by the infection (Winans et al. 2011). Patients with infectious diseases can thus be considered to be at higher risk for c hronic diseases because of metal exposure. Conversely, exposure to metals may aggravate diseases caused by pathogenic infections or even initi- ate these diseases following exposure to certain microbes. The combined ef- fects of exposure to metals and pathogens on the burden of disease in human populations remain unknown, but they are no doubt being modifi ed by the 2 J. O. Nriagu and E. P. Skaar increasing contamination of the environment with metals. The multiple inter- actions between pollutant metals, pathogens, and the environment are obvi- ously complex and diffi cult to disentangle. However, in the current context of emerging metals, emerging infectious diseases, and rapid alterations of metal levels in our environment, understanding the consequences of such interac- tions is necessary to protect the public’s health. Many parts of the world (especially in the developing areas of Africa, Asia, and South America) that are endemic for the most common infectious diseases of our time—including malaria, HIV/AIDS, diarrhea, upper respiratory tract infections, and t uberculosis—also have high prevalence rates of t race metal defi ciencies. Likewise, the highest emission rates for toxic trace metals into the environment are occurring in many countries with high incidence of infectious diseases. C oexposure to pathogens and suboptimal amounts of trace metals signifi cantly impacts human health because trace metals command a central position at the host–pathogen interface due to the essential demand for metals that are required for many metabolic processes in all cells . For microbes that reside within a niche inhabited by substantial microbial popula- tions (such as the human gut or respiratory tract), they must compete with these other coexisting species to obtain the required amount of various trace metals. Compounding this issue is that invading microbes must also compete for these nutrients with their host. Mammals have evolved complex strategies aimed at restricting the supply of essential nutrient metals to pathogens, which repre- sents an effective strategy of h ost defense sometimes termed “host tolerance” or “n utritional immunity.” Note that we use the term “host tolerance” to defi ne processes by which the host can minimize damage caused by the
