Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


sometimes termed “host tolerance” or “n utritional immunity.” Note that we use the term “host tolerance” to defi ne processes by which the host can minimize damage caused by the pathogen resulting in a homeostatic relationship between host and microbe, and this is not to be confused with “immune tolerance” which defi nes a state of unrespon- siveness of the immune system to substances that have the potential to elicit an immune response. Notably, pathogens can evoke multiple strategies to acquire the essential element metals from their hosts to satisfy the requirement for metals in processes, including proliferation, virulence, and persistence (Failla 2003; Haase et al. 2008). The control over the homeostatic balance of essential trace metals is a critical battlefi eld during host–pathogen interactions which determines the course of an infectious disease in favor of either the mammalian host or the microbial invader. A plethora of studies in recent years has revealed a complex control net- work of molecules involved in the competition between host cells and invading pathogens for essential trace elements. These studies have aimed at elaborating either the host’s mechanisms of metal restriction or the counteracting metal ac- quisition strategies employed by pathogens (Inadera 2006; Jomova and Valko 2011). Recently, the concept of nutritional immunity has expanded to include host-imposed metal t oxicity as a strategy to protect against microbial chal- lenge. The most thoroughly studied of the competition for metals involves the acquisition of iron, although there is a growing appreciation of the contribution Introduction 3 of manganese, zinc, and copper to the outcome of host–microbe interactions. Limiting iron availability can be an effi cient strategy to restrict extracellular bacteria, and such a strategy is also detrimental for intracellular pathogens. Indeed, there is now strong evidence to suggest that host-mediated alteration of i ron homeostasis has direct impacts on the proliferation of microbes. Recent studies have also shown a clear-cut correlation between bacterial infections and removal of zinc from the serum. More generally, zinc defi ciency can reduce immune defense against infections, chronic infl ammatory disease, and reduced cellular activation, whereas high zinc can hamper effective signal transduction leading to various negative consequences. Iron homeostasis is in part linked to copper homeostasis. Copper defi ciency predisposes mammals to infectious diseases, to some extent as a consequence of a lack of neutrophils induced by inadequate copper availability or supply (see Rehder et al., this volume). Traditional
