Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


predisposes mammals to infectious diseases, to some extent as a consequence of a lack of neutrophils induced by inadequate copper availability or supply (see Rehder et al., this volume). Traditional wisdom holds that host-defense mechanisms are primarily a function of the immune system and can be deployed to detect and eliminate invading parasites. This paradigm has recently been challenged by studies showing that the human host uses two strategies for dealing with an infec- tion that are not mutually exclusive: the ability (a) to limit parasite burden (r esistance) and (b) to limit the harm caused by a given burden of parasites (tolerance). From an ecological perspective, resistance protects the host at the expense of the parasite, whereas tolerance saves the host from harm without having any direct negative effects on the parasite (Ayres and Schneider 2012). This distinction is useful because it recognizes the important fact that hosts can sometimes be quite healthy, despite high parasite burdens, or conversely die with parasite loads which are tolerated by others; in fact, pathogen burden and health are not always well correlated (Schneider and Ayres 2008; Ayres and Schneider 2012; Medzhitov et al. 2012). Although these two components, together, determine how well a host is protected against the effects of infection, studies of human defense against microbes have focused to date primarily on resistance; the possibility of tolerance and its implications have been compara- tively less well studied . The linkage of metabolic cycles of trace metals to tolerance mechanisms in the host is one of the more important recent discoveries in the fi eld of trace metals research. Although only a few metals are known to be biologically essential (iron, molybdenum, manganese, zinc, nickel, copper, vanadium, cobalt, and sele- nium), there is growing realization that almost every element in the periodic table (including arsenic, bismuth, boron, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, copper, germanium, gold, iron, silver, lead, mercury, nickel, manganese, molybdenum, platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, thallium, tin, titanium, vanadium, and zinc) can also moderate a host’s i mmune response to pathogens. Many trace metals and metalloids have been reported in human and animal experi- ments to display antiviral, antifungal, antibacterial, and/or antiprotozoa proper- ties, but the mechanisms for these effects are only beginning to be uncovered. 4 J. O. Nriagu and E. P. Skaar However, the role of these metals on the tolerance defense strategies is cur- rently unknown. A close look at
