Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


to be uncovered. 4 J. O. Nriagu and E. P. Skaar However, the role of these metals on the tolerance defense strategies is cur- rently unknown. A close look at the modes of death from infections shows surprisingly that death is often not attributable to a direct effect of the pathogen or of any toxin it produces but rather is the consequence of the systemic infl ammatory re- sponse in the host . Our own immune system can be responsible for destroying us. Although this has been known for some time, efforts to fi nd effective therapies that alter the host response to infection to promote survival have not been tremendously successful. This failure may be related, in part, to the inability to distinguish between failed resistance and failed tolerance in monitoring the outcome of treatment. When failed tolerance is the underlying factor, boosting immunity and reducing pathogen burden (using drugs) may be ineffective, whereas enhancing tolerance (e.g., with trace metal interven- tion) may have salutary effects. Drug interventions that target tolerance path- ways may also be more desirable when immune defenses are either ineffi cient, compromised, or cause excessive immunopathology. Boosting tissue tolerance could be a particularly useful strategy in diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, and HIV, where pathogen control through vaccination or antimicrobial drugs is currently suboptimal . Conceptually, it is appealing to reduce the effect of an infection by moderating the host environment as opposed to poisoning the pathogen with a toxic metal. In this sense, metallic compounds hold some promise as potentially effective, adequate, affordable, and safe chemotherapies to boost host tolerance as well as resistance. Unlike the essential metals, exposure to many toxic heavy metals found in the environment may trigger a utoimmunity (overactive immune system) or result in i mmunotoxicity . The manifestation of autoimmune diseases includes production of autoantibodies, infl ammation and cytokines in various target organs, and deposition of immune complexes in vascular sites (i.e., i mmunopathology). At high enough doses, exposure to metals can exert direct toxicity on the immune system through suppression of the system as a whole or by the disruption (suppression) of immunoregulatory systems, and hence result in exaggerated responses to infections . In terms of the combined effect of c oexposure to e ssential and toxic metals, it is conceiv- able for the antibiological activity of one metal to amplify the activity of a distinct metal, leading
