Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


effect of c oexposure to e ssential and toxic metals, it is conceiv- able for the antibiological activity of one metal to amplify the activity of a distinct metal, leading to increased resistance (or tolerance) against infections. A few in vivo and in vitro studies have reported reduced host vulnerability in response to coexposure to two or more trace metals. On the other hand, the antibiological activity for one metal can be incompatible with the activity of another metal, which then can lead to enhanced virulence or morbidity follow- ing an infection. C ompetition phenomena between zinc and several trace met- als (such as cadmium, lead, calcium, iron, manganese, and copper) have been documented in zinc supplementation trials; however, results are inconsistent because of failure to consider the basal zinc status during the experiments. There are some parts of the world where communities with high prevalence Introduction 5 of i ron, z inc, or s elenium defi ciency are being exposed to high levels of toxic metals (especially lead, mercury, and arsenic). Populations in such areas are well suited for epidemiological studies aimed at understanding the underly- ing mechanisms of how trace metal interactions moderate the outcome of an infection. General Perspectives from the Forum’s Discussions Interest in processes at the nexus of host–microbe–metal interactions has risen recently as a result of advancements in the study of metallomics (metal-con- taining biomolecules), proteomics, and genomics. These emerging fi elds have given rise to new developments in powerful analytical methods and technol- ogy for studying the identity, distribution, quantity, traffi cking, fate, and effects of trace metals in biological systems. Applications of these advanced tech- niques to the study of metabolic cycles are yielding results and have placed scientists at the threshold of major paradigm shifts in our understanding of the relationships between homeostatic mechanisms of trace metals and patho- genesis of infectious diseases. This emerging fi eld was thus well suited for an Ernst Strüngmann Forum, which applies a unique multidisciplinary framework to assess current knowledge and identify gaps and research opportunities on cross-cutting issues. The fi elds present at this Forum were broad: chemistry, biology/biochemistry, toxicology, nutrition, immunology, microbiology, epi- and veterinary medicine. The majority of participants shared common inter- ests in the roles of metals in biology, and they were tasked with using their knowledge to discuss and create reports on how the metabolic cycles of trace metals relate
