Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


ests in the roles of metals in biology, and they were tasked with using their knowledge to discuss and create reports on how the metabolic cycles of trace metals relate to the p athogenesis of disease during infection. To prepare for this discussion, invited background papers provided reviews of critical topics as a basis for the group discussions. The stimulating dialog that ensued covered a wide range of views, insights, and perspectives on current knowledge and raised important open questions that should be addressed by future research initiatives. Detailed summaries of the current state of knowledge and future areas for further research and development are presented in the group reports. The overviews below are our perceptions of some of the general areas of con- cern expressed at the Forum. Cavet et al. (Chapter 7, this volume) focus on the microbial perspective during host–microbe interactions. Their discussions were directed at fi ve key areas deemed to require greater understanding: 1. Metal availability in distinct environments, including within and out- side microbial cells, with some emphasis on intracellular metal avail- ability and how metal-requiring proteins acquire their correct metal cofactors. 6 J. O. Nriagu and E. P. Skaar 2. The different levels and sources of metals available to microbes in dis- tinct niches within the host. 3. The effect of the metal status of a pathogen, as derived from its prior environment, on its ability to establish an infection or the severity of disease. 4. The interplay between metals and the microbiota. 5. How metal restriction and metal oversupply can inhibit microbial growth or cause their death. Specifi c issues that are explored in detail by Cavet et al. include the nature of the pool of exchangeable metal inside cells; whether metalloforms of an enzyme differ depending upon circumstance; control of metallation status by t hermodynamics of binding sites; metabolic metal shuttling (metal ligands and proteins); the diversity of e cological niches for microbes in the vertebrate host; the sources and forms of metals in different niches; metal speciation in the intracellular environment; microbial strategies for obtaining metals from host and the effects of metal restriction; how an overabundance of intracellular met- als impedes cell growth; and the effect of metal import and export systems on microbial growth and p athogenesis. They also cover some of the most intense and exciting areas of research on metals in the biology of microbes. Rehder
