Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and export systems on microbial growth and p athogenesis. They also cover some of the most intense and exciting areas of research on metals in the biology of microbes. Rehder et al. (Chapter 13, this volume) provide a comprehensive overview of the role of metal ions in infectious diseases from the host perspective, fo- cusing on iron, copper, zinc and, to a lesser extent, manganese and the met- alloid selenium. Additionally, r ecommended dietary allowances (RDAs) are addressed, as well as metal-based drugs in the treatment of tropical diseases. The issues highlighted by Rehder et al. include the roles of manganese, iron, copper, zinc, and selenium in immune function; the interplay of iron distribu- tion between microbes and host cells; the impact of iron on anti-immune ef- fector functions; the role of zinc in host resistance/susceptibility and tolerance; therapeutic effects of zinc in infectious diseases of children; the specifi c case of selenium and susceptibility to viral and b acterial infections and to parasites; and a commentary on the RDAs and related intake levels. Their report includes a discussion of the role of the gasotransmitters c arbon monoxide and n itric oxide in relation to their interference with bound and free metal ions. To cope with the increasing concern about the epidemic of tropical diseases (such as l eishmaniasis, Chagas disease, and malaria), drugs are being developed that are based on coordination compounds of metals, including copper, iron, ruthe- nium, and gold. The effi cacies and limitations of such drugs are described by Rehder et al. This report synthesizes the current state of knowledge regarding the contribution of metals to infectious disease from the host perspective and offers recommendations for areas of future research. Ackland et al. (Chapter 17, this volume) provide insights into current knowledge and gaps in our understanding of the interplay between trace met- als in the environment and infection. The contributions of metal defi ciencies Introduction 7 to the global b urden of infectious diseases are substantial for zinc and iron but less defi ned for other metals. How emerging metals relate to emerging patho- gens, and hence infl uence the disease burden, is identifi ed as a matter that de- serves further research. Despite considerable research taking place separately on trace metals and infectious pathogens, little is currently known about the in- microbiota, where direct coexposure occurs. A number of global trends have been identifi
