Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


research taking place separately on trace metals and infectious pathogens, little is currently known about the in- microbiota, where direct coexposure occurs. A number of global trends have been identifi ed that have the potential to upset the natural host–microbe–metal nexus, including c limate change, W estern-style f ood processing, increasing reliance on infant formula and consumption of fast foods, as well as the com- mercialization of products with metalliferous nanomaterials. From an ecologi- cal perspective, the two main processes by which the environment can directly impact host–pathogen interactions are (a) the changing pathogenicity of infec- tious agents combined with the emergence and spread of d rug resistance, and (b) the changing of host resistance to the pathogen. The contributions of metals to the specifi c mechanisms involved in each process are essentially unknown. Ackland et al. note that failure to ascertain the environmental contribution to infectious disease etiology stems largely from limitations in our ability to assess the environmental exposures, which have traditionally been measured using questionnaires and geographical mapping. The need for a new expo- sure paradigm that can integrate many external and internal exposures from different sources over the life course is emphasized. Exposomics or e nviron- ment-wide association studies offers one such approach to gain insight into the environmental component essential to improving our understanding of the predictors, risk factors, and protective factors in complex interactions between trace metals, the environment, and infective microbes. An understanding of the effects of such an environmentally determined e xposome on susceptibility to infectious disease would be an important step in developing appropriate inter- vention strategies in many parts of the world. Our understanding of the biology of metals in the context of infectious dis- ease is necessarily advanced (and limited) by the available analytical tools. The broad aims of Maret et al. (Chapter 20, this volume) were to provide an overview of analytical techniques available for investigating the interaction of metals/metalloids within both microbe and host, to specify needs for tech- nological improvements, and to identify emerging applications and analytical questions. Measurement of metals in biological samples should encompass the total metal content, chemical speciation of metals, and additional information about distribution in biological space and time. Maret et al. stress the need to generate data that can be used to understand the m etallome, or the functions of all parts of systems biology. In their report, they identify
