Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


al. stress the need to generate data that can be used to understand the m etallome, or the functions of all parts of systems biology. In their report, they identify gaps and needs in technology, upcoming methodological issues, and analytical ways to study therapeutic and preventive interventions that will address the host–microbe interaction, with a focus on further goals and potential applications. 8 J. O. Nriagu and E. P. Skaar In this regard, Maret et al. discuss the adaptation of hyphenated techniques in p roteomics research that require p rotein separation, mostly chromatographic and electrophoretic, in combination with molecular mass spectrometry (ICP- MS, ES-MS, MALDI-MS). In addition, the pool of nonprotein-bound metals, which is increasingly drawing attention because it is “metabolically active,” can be addressed with fl uorimetric techniques that have detection limits down to the septomolar range of concentrations or even reach single molecule or single cell resolution with super-resolution microscopy. An important issue for further research is the development of isotope tracer techniques, which can be used in experimental designs that span a wide range due to the large differenc- es in size, reproductive speed, and experimental tractability of microbes and host animals. Microbes and cultured cells can be grown in media containing r adioactive or s table isotope tracers, and the total inventory of metal species can theoretically be identifi ed and quantifi ed by radioactivity detection or by the isotopic shift, respectively. In higher animals, tracer techniques allow ap- plication of uptake measurements and metal species turnover, but lack or bias the information on the total inventory of metals. Currently, localization and speciation of total metals or the metallome in higher animals is pursued only ex vivo in tissue sections or extracts of cells, tissues, or body fl uids because many of these techniques are destructive in nature. Signifi cant insight into trace metals and infections can be gained from fur- ther development and improvement in the transgenic constructs of metal sen- sors/reporter proteins from the cellular to the organismal level. Permanent or conditional knockouts (KO) of metal chaperones, transporters, chelators, or storage proteins elucidate the mechanism of metal-related host defense, but typically require the use of KO mice. Fusions of fl uorescent or luminescent proteins with metal-chelating proteins may report free metal ion concentra- tions. Luminescent reporter proteins expressed under the control of promoters for genes of interest allow for studying the regulation of metalloproteins
