Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


with metal-chelating proteins may report free metal ion concentra- tions. Luminescent reporter proteins expressed under the control of promoters for genes of interest allow for studying the regulation of metalloproteins or effector proteins responsive to metals and can provide an indication of the metal environment experienced by a pathogen during infection. In addition, Maret et al. review in silico approaches to metalloprotein function to predict and calculate the dynamics of metallomes for organisms, starting from their genome sequences. Attention is drawn to existing or upcoming genome-wide expression studies utilizing real-time polymerase chain reaction for identifying genes encoding metalloproteins, which are up- or down-regulated in the host or microbe upon mutual contact or may mediate metal modulation of infec- tious disease. In their report, Maret et al. include a general overview of existing analyti- cal methods for trace metals; in particular, inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), which has been established as the workhorse in non- radioactive m etal speciation studies and, when coupled to a l aser ablation (LA) instrument, enables imaging at the mesoscopic scale. ICP-MS provides the lowest detection limits and the best sensitivities, highest concentration Introduction 9 dynamic range, broad multiplex capability, and robustness toward matrix ef- fects. Identifi cation of metalloproteins after chromatographic or electropho- retic separation uses metal detection by ICP-MS (or autoradiography) and for protein determination by tryptic digestion, followed by high-resolution tan- dem mass spectroscopy. The experimentally determined amino acid sequences of the peptides are then compared with those organized in protein databases, yielding acceptable or unacceptable probabilities of correct identifi cations. Unfortunately, protein databases lack many metalloproteins and contain nu- merous mis-assignments of metalloproteins, which is a major shortcoming in the fi eld of metallomics. In summary, through this Forum we collectively sought to expand under- standing of the linkage(s) between metals and the p athogenesis of infectious diseases, and to address the underlying mechanisms that moderate the outcome of infection. The dialog that emerged from a tremendously diverse group of international experts attests to the very real needs that exist in science. This volume aims to transfer the Forum’s results. It provides an integrated sum- mary of our current knowledge, highlights the contentious issues, and suggests critical areas for further research. We hope that it will spur future work and discovery in the service of humankind to alleviate the burden of infectious disease throughout the world. The outcome of the Forum
