Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


We hope that it will spur future work and discovery in the service of humankind to alleviate the burden of infectious disease throughout the world. The outcome of the Forum depended very much on the effi ciency, helpful- ness, and general guidance of Julia Lupp and the entire staff of the Strüngmann Forum. Their unfl inching support and professionalism were appreciated by all who attended the meeting. The Forum benefi ted greatly from the work of the Program Advisory Committee members—Rodney R. Dietert, Julia Lupp, Jerome O. Nriagu, Lothar Rink, Anthony B. Schryvers, and Eric P. Skaar— who met in Frankfurt from January 26–28, 2013 to develop the scientifi c pro- gram for the Forum. Success, however, belongs to the moderators, rapporteurs, and all participants. In closing, we wish to thank the authors of the invited background papers as well as the rapporteurs, who share credit for the quality of material in this book. Host–Microbe Interactions: The Microbe Perspective Is Metal Uptake Related to Ecological Niche in the Vertebrate Host? Joseph Lemire, Trevor F. Moraes, Vahid Fa Andisi, and Anthony B. Schryvers Abstract There is a complex interplay between the vertebrate host and the microbes that inhabit its mucosal surfaces in their c ompetition for essential metal ions. Mucosal surfaces in the host constitute an array of diverse ecological niches that vary substantially in the availability of metal ions from the external environment and from the host. The microbes that inhabit different mucosal surfaces vary in the degree to which they are uniquely adapted to, and are restricted to, the host mucosal environment. This chapter reviews current understanding of metal ion homeostasis in the host, the mechanisms of metal ion acquisition in microbes, and the degree to which the specifi c mucosal niche impacts the repertoire of metal ion acquisition mechanisms that the microbes possess. Introduction Our aim in this chapter is to provide a synopsis of the mechanisms of essential metal ion acquisition in microbes that inhabit the vertebrate host, highlighting how different mucosal environments may infl uence the repertoire of acquisi- tion systems that are present. An appreciation of the relative exposure of mi- crobes to metal ions from the environment or derived from the host and their available metal ion acquisition systems is an essential foundation for under- standing the impact of metals ions on infection. Metal Ion Homeostasis in Vertebrates Metal ions are essential to biological
