Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


available metal ion acquisition systems is an essential foundation for under- standing the impact of metals ions on infection. Metal Ion Homeostasis in Vertebrates Metal ions are essential to biological systems, as they participate in discrete chemistries that are not possible by organic molecules alone. Iron (Fe), zinc 14 J. Lemire et al. (Zn), copper (Cu), and manganese (Mn) are essential to both bacterial and mammalian cells alike. However, the human body also requires molybdenum (Mo), selenium (Se), chromium (Cr), cobalt (Co) and other metals for select biochemistries. While the homeostasis (acquisition, distribution, s torage, and elimination) of iron has received a great deal of attention, the homeostasis of some of the other aforementioned metals has not been as well defi ned. The Functional Role of Essential Metal Ions: A Brief Glance at Metallobiochemistry A comprehensive review of the functional role of metals in biological systems is well beyond the scope of this chapter. In the sections below, discussion fo- cuses on some of the well-studied biological roles of essential metals. Redox-Active Metals: Iron, Copper, Molybdenum, Cobalt, Manganese, and Chromium Current understanding of Fe and Cu homeostasis stems from their vital and diverse functions in cellular chemistry. Indeed, iron is an essential player in ATP production, cellular division, DNA repair, and antioxidant defense, and is a required moiety for distributing oxygen in the human body. The ability of iron to undergo redox chemistry (i.e., Fe2+ ↔ Fe3+) makes it ideal for partici- pating in electron donor/receiving reactions in the e lectron transport chain and other important redox reactions. Copper also lends itself to electron transfer in the electron transport chain, as a critical cofactor in cytochrome c oxidase. The ability of copper to be oxidized (Cu2+) or reduced (Cu+) gives it utility in antioxidant defense in the enzyme Cu/Zn-s uperoxide dismutase (C u/Zn-SOD) (Turski and Thiele 2009). The necessity of redox-active metals in attenuating reactive oxygen species is also evidenced by some cells expressing an Fe- dependent SOD. The human body requires cobalt in its corrin form as cobalamin ( vitamin B12). The importance of bacteria to human health is demonstrated by our reli- ance on them for the synthesis of cobalamin. The versatility of the cofactor cobalamin gives it utility in a range of essential cellular pathways: fatty acid and amino acid metabolism, DNA synthesis, and energy production. Within these pathways, cobalamin participates in small molecule transfer. Some clas-
