Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


utility in a range of essential cellular pathways: fatty acid and amino acid metabolism, DNA synthesis, and energy production. Within these pathways, cobalamin participates in small molecule transfer. Some clas- sic examples of this are methyl group transfer (methyl transferases) and hydro- gen atom handling ( ribonucleotide reductases) (Banerjee and Ragsdale 2003). In their free ionic form, molybdenum and c hromium are typically found as oxyanions in biological systems: MoO 2–, and CrO 2–, respectively. However, 4 4 human cells have found ways to exploit them for biological functions. Cofactor manipulation of molybdenum allows for the shuttling of electrons between molybdenum’s IV, V, and VI oxidation state . This gives enzymes such as xanthine oxidase the capacity to participate in two electron Is Metal Uptake Related to Ecological Niche in Vertebrate Hosts? 15 nutrition is still ongoing. Vincent (2010) proposed that Cr3+ is involved in glu- cose metabolism, through the interaction with various aspects of the insulin- signaling pathway. To date, however, there has been no apparent mechanism that explains this phenomenon in detail. As a micronutrient, manganese fi nds one of its most important utilities in Mn-dependent SOD in the mitochondria, and is therefore essential for antioxi- dant defense. The proposed mechanism of action for m anganese in SOD is the formation of a Mn3+ intermediate that oxidizes superoxide . Nonredox-Active Metals: Zinc and Selenium Though not redox active, Zn2+ fi nds use as a catalytic, structural, and regula- tory cofactor in the cell . One of the best-studied catalytic func- tions of zinc is the activation of water in carbonic anhydrase. Water activation by zinc in carbonic anhydrase allows for the formation of bicarbonate (HCO –) from carbon dioxide (CO ), an essential function for maintaining the pH of the blood. Zinc is also required for maintaining the structure of the Zn-fi nger family of t ranscription factors. Additionally, zinc has also been demonstrated to participate in cell signaling as a secondary messenger, thus inducing the expression of certain genes . Selenium is required to biosynthesize the noncoded amino acid selenocys- teine. One of the better-documented functions of selenocysteine is its impor- tance in glutathione peroxidase, an enzyme that can detoxify hydrogen perox- ide (H O ). Other notable enzymes that require selenocysteine to operate are 2 2 deiodinases (removal of iodine from thyroid hormones) and formate dehydro- genases ( detoxifi cation of formate in the liver) .
