Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


notable enzymes that require selenocysteine to operate are 2 2 deiodinases (removal of iodine from thyroid hormones) and formate dehydro- genases ( detoxifi cation of formate in the liver) . Acquisition and Transport of Essential Metal Ions Iron plays a critical role in biological redox reactions but its innate insolubility and the potential for free iron to mediate the generation of toxic by-products in the presence of oxygen has prompted the development of complex systems for maintaining its solubility through ligating to various organic acids and pro- teins. Thus mammals have developed effective systems for handling iron and regulating the level of available iron (De Domenico et al. 2008). Although less studied, there are likely complex systems for handling other essential metals. One critical component of metal ion homeostasis is the mechanism for up- take by gut epithelial cells, and studies have revealed several pathways (Figure 2.1). However, due to the varying forms of metal ions in dietary sources and the complexities introduced by the interplay with the gut microbiota, it re- mains to be seen whether there are additional metal ion uptake pathways and to what extent they contribute under varying dietary conditions and microbiota compositions. 16 J. Lemire et al. Intestinal lumen Intestinal microbiota ? MoO2-, Cr, Se ? Cu2+ ? Fe3+ IF B12 Metal–organic ligand complex SeO2-, Cr3+ Fe2+, Cu+, Cu2+ 3 Zn2+, Mn2+ Zn2+, Mn2+ Cu+ DcytB MR X DMT1 Zip4 Ctr1 Cubulin ? ? Amnionless Fe2+, Cu2+, Zn2+, Mn2+ Cu+ Endosomal-mediated uptake Release? Metal–organic ligand complex Figure 2.1 Essential metal uptake into intestinal epithelium cells from the gut lumen. The divalent metals Fe2+, Cu2+, Zn2+, and Mn2+ can be transported by divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) (Vashchenko and MacGillivray 2013). Fe3+ must be reduced to Fe2+ by the duodenal cytochrome B (DcytB) prior to internalization by DMT1 (Kim et al. 2008; Lichten and Cousins 2009; Vashchenko and MacGillivray 2013). Zip4 and Ctr1 mediate the uptake of Zn2+ or Mn2+ and Cu+, respectively (Kim et al. 2008; Li- chten and Cousins 2009; Vashchenko and MacGillivray 2013). Reduction of Cu2+ to Cu+ by a metaloreductase, possibly DyctB, is required for import by Ctr1. V itamin B12 (c obalamin) requires its own transporter complex—cubulin-amnionless—which inter- nalizes a complex of B12 and intrinsic factor (IF) by an endosomal-dependent pathway (Kozyraki and Cases 2013). The exact transport mechanism of MoO2–, Cr (III and VI), and Se remain a point of
