Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of B12 and intrinsic factor (IF) by an endosomal-dependent pathway (Kozyraki and Cases 2013). The exact transport mechanism of MoO2–, Cr (III and VI), and Se remain a point of discovery and controversy (Lichten and Cousins 2009; Zeng et al. 2011; Mendel and Kruse 2012). Essential Metal Uptake by the Gut Epithelia The divalent metal transporter 1 (D MT1) is capable of transporting a number of the essential metal ions (Fe3+, Cu2+, and possibly Zn2+ and Mn2+) into the gut epithelial cell. This process, however, generally requires the activity of the duodenal cytochrome B (DcytB), which reduces dietary Fe3+ to Fe2+ or Cu2+ to Cu+ for transport by DMT1 into the intestinal epithelial cell (Vashchenko and MacGillivray 2013). Copper can also be transported by a high affi nity Cu transporter, Ctr1, a process that also requires coupling to a metalloreductase . The Z ip4 family of transporters on the apical surface of the intestinal epithelia specifi cally transports zinc, but may also transport manga- nese (Lichten and Cousins 2009). Microorganisms also have strict requirements for iron, copper, zinc, and manganese and have mechanisms of acquisition that involve modifying the Is Metal Uptake Related to Ecological Niche in Vertebrate Hosts? 17 form of metal present in f ood sources. Current models for metal ion acquisi- impact of the gut microbiota and compete for various forms of metal ions that may be present. The serendipitous discovery of s iderocalin, a secreted protein that binds iron complexed to bacterial siderophores , provides an example of additional complexities in the competition between the microbi- ota and host in the competition for metal ions. An obvious question is whether there are additional surface proteins and systems in the gut epithelial that are devoted to acquisition of metal ion complexes that exist due to the presence of the gut microbiome. Cobalamin (vitamin B12) is the form of cobalt that is transported by gut epithelial cells and there is a complex system for optimizing its u tilization. Cobalamin is bound by the salivary gland-derived glycoprotein, haptocorrin (t ranscobalamin), in the upper g astrointestinal tract to protect the sensitive vi- tamin from acidic breakdown (Kozyraki and Cases 2013). Cobalamin is then passed from haptocorrin to the parietal cell-produced glycoprotein—intrinsic factor (IF)—in the duodenum following the degradation of haptocorrin. The cobalamin-IF complex is then transported from the lumen by an endosomal- dependent pathway into the enterocyte by the cubilin-amnionless
