Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


glycoprotein—intrinsic factor (IF)—in the duodenum following the degradation of haptocorrin. The cobalamin-IF complex is then transported from the lumen by an endosomal- dependent pathway into the enterocyte by the cubilin-amnionless complex (Kozyraki and Cases 2013). The uptake of m olybdenum, chromium, and selenium is poorly character- ized. Molybdenum is likely absorbed as MoO 2– by an active transport process, which may be impeded by the presence of competing anions such as sulphate (Mendel and Kruse 2012). Uptake of chromate through anion transporters is considered a source of toxic exposure. The entry of dietary Cr(III) into the hu- man body may require coordination by an organic ligand (Lichten and Cousins 2009), and Se absorption is enhanced in its amino acid—selenocysteine and selenomethionine—form . The Distribution of Essential Metals throughout the Body Bioaccessible dietary iron taken up by the enterocyte is transported to the basal membrane where it is loaded onto transferrin (Tf), a bi-lobed glycoprotein ca- pable of binding two Fe3+ with high affi nity (Figure 2.2). Ferrous iron (Fe2+) is exported from the enterocyte through ferroportin and converted to Fe3+ by the ferroxidase h ephaestin, for loading iron onto Tf (Vashchenko and MacGillivray 2013). Transferrin transports iron to cells that require iron for growth, par- ticularly erythrocyte precursors which require iron for the oxygen transport protein hemoglobin. Iron is effi ciently recycled in the body through (a) di- rect engulfment of senescent erythrocytes and other cells, (b) macrophages and hepatocytes, or (c) recapture of released hemoglobin or heme by the se- rum glycoproteins haptoglobin and hemopexin, and taken up by hepatocytes. The recycled iron from macrophages and hepatocytes is then loaded onto Tf through ferroportin and a ferroxidase, as in the enterocyte. The regulation of 18 J. Lemire et al. Interstitial space Enterocyte Endothelial Capillary lumen Endothelial Apo- cell cell Tf Fe3+ Holo Fe2+ Ferroportin Fe3+ Fe3+ Holo ? Tf Tf Hephaestin ? Mn2+ ? Albumin Mn2+ Mn2+ ? Zn2+ Zn2+ Zn1, 4 Zn2+ ? Cu2+ (cid:302)(cid:302)2-macroglobulin Cu2+ Cu-ATPase Cu2+ and other ligands (ATP7A) ? B12 B12 B12 ? ? MRP1 ? ? ? B12 B12 B12 TC TC TC ? ? Cr, Se, Mo Cr, Se, Mo Lymph lacteal? Figure 2.2 Essential metal transport from the enterocyte to the systemic circulation. Iron is transported from the enterocyte to the interstitial space via export through ferro- portin and oxidation of Fe2+ to Fe3+ by hephaestin. This provides the form of
