Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


systemic circulation. Iron is transported from the enterocyte to the interstitial space via export through ferro- portin and oxidation of Fe2+ to Fe3+ by hephaestin. This provides the form of iron that is bound by apo-transferrin (apo-Tf) (Vashchenko and MacGillivray 2013). Zn2+ and Cu2+ are both exported from the enterocyte by specifi c transporters: Znt1, 4 and ATP7A (Cu- ATPase), respectively (Kim et al. 2008; Lichten and Cousins 2009). Cobalamin ( B12) is exported through MRP1, the multidrug protein, and binds to transcobalamin (TC) for dis- tribution in the blood (Kozyraki and Cases 2013). As indicated by the numerous question marks, there is considerable uncertainty as to how the metal ions released from the basal membrane of the enterocyte are transported to the lumen of the blood vessels and bound to proteins thought to be responsible for their distribution throughout the body. Fe homeostasis by hepcidin takes advantage of the critical role that ferroportin plays in export of iron from cells, and infl uences the stability of ferroportin (Zhang and Enns 2009). Cobalamin is likely exported from the enterocyte through the m ultidrug resistance protein 1 (MRP1) transporter following release from the IF cubulin- amnionless complex via lysosomal acidifi cation (Kozyraki and Cases 2013; Cole 2014). From the enterocyte, cobalamin is delivered through the systemic circulatory system by binding to t ranscobalamin (Kozyraki and Cases 2013). Further studies are required to establish whether cobalamin binds to transco- balamin before exiting the enterocyte, while in the interstitial space, or upon reaching systemic circulation. Copper is exported from the enterocyte by a Cu-ATPase (ATP7A) (Kim et al. 2008) but the ligands that it binds for transport throughout the body are not Is Metal Uptake Related to Ecological Niche in Vertebrate Hosts? 19 fi rmly established, although albumin and α -macroglobulin are likely candi- dates . It has also been suggested that the serum Fe oxidase, c eruloplasmin, may play an integral role in Cu transport through the systemic circulation, since 90% of serum copper is bound by ceruloplasmin. However studies in mice lacking ceruloplasmin demonstrated no apparent defect in Cu absorption or distribution . Export of zinc from the enterocyte relies on the Z n transporters Znt1 and Znt4 (Lichten and Cousins 2009), whereas M n export may rely on ferroportin (Madejczyk and Ballatori 2012). A lbumin has been implicated as the molecule responsible for carrying both zinc and manganese in the
