Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


2009), whereas M n export may rely on ferroportin (Madejczyk and Ballatori 2012). A lbumin has been implicated as the molecule responsible for carrying both zinc and manganese in the blood (Michalke et al. 2007; Lu et al. 2008). Although there is information on the pathways for exporting metal ions from the enterocyte, many questions remain: Where does the apo-Tf that binds the Fe3+ at the basal membrane of the enterocyte originate (Figure 2.2)? Is apo-Tf produced locally by enterocytes or by leukocytes, or is it transported from the lumen of capillaries? Are the proteins involved in binding other metal ions also present at the basal surface of the enterocyte, and, if so, what is their origin? How is the Fe-loaded Tf transported to the lumen of blood vessels for distribution throughout the body? How are other metals ions, or metal ions complexed to proteins, transported into the lumen of the blood vessels? Are metal ions or metal ion complexes transported through the lymphatics along with cell fl uids, just as chylomicrons are? Clearly, current gaps in our under- standing of how metal ions enter the systemic circulation remain a fi eld for future discovery in metal ion homeostasis (Figure 2.2). Mechanisms and Pathways for Metal Ion Acquisition in Microbes Sources of Metal Ions The descriptions o f metal ion homeostasis in the preceding section focused on the acquisition, distribution, and storage of metal ions within the body. As such, they provide insight on the forms of metal ions that would be available in the extracellular milieu during invasive infection (Hood and Skaar 2012) but do not necessarily provide information regarding what is available on mucosal surfaces. Due to our understanding of Fe homeostasis, we have a good grasp of the sources of iron available to invading microbes within the mammalian host (Hood and Skaar 2012). The predominant form of extracellular iron within the body is in the form of Tf, which is normally partially saturated (~30%), result- ing in rapid sequestration of any available Fe3+ by Tf. The structurally related glycoprotein, lactoferrin (Lf), is normally at nearly 1,000-fold lower levels than that of Tf. However, since it is released from neutrophil granules at sites of infection and infl ammation, the local concentrations can be substantial. The 20 J. Lemire et al. effi cient recycling of h emoglobin and h eme by haptoglobin and hemopexin not only limit the levels
