Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


the local concentrations can be substantial. The 20 J. Lemire et al. effi cient recycling of h emoglobin and h eme by haptoglobin and hemopexin not only limit the levels of free hemoglobin and heme, the levels of hemoglobin- haptoglobin and heme-hemopexin complexes are also kept very low, except under conditions of extensive hemolysis. Although the study of homeostasis of other essential metal ions is less ex- tensive than for iron, there are common features and considerations. The ma- jority of the zinc, manganese, and copper in plasma is bound to albumin or other serum proteins, and calprotectin-releasing cells (e.g., neutrophils) can release c alprotectin for Zn and Mn chelation (Hood and Skaar 2012). Just as there is some uncertainty of how metal ions from the diet are transported into serum (Figure 2.2), it is not readily apparent whether or how the components of serum involved in metal ion coordination are transported into the intersti- tial fl uids, except when there is damage to blood vessels during infection or infl ammation. The production of Lf by glandular epithelial cells (Figure 2.3) has led to the general assumption that Lf would be more readily available on mucosal surfaces than Tf. This assumption has been shown, however, to be incorrect for the male genitourinary tract in humans . Still, the levels of Lf increase upon gonococcal challenge, are likely due to the concomitant infl ammatory response. It is important to consider that Lf is secreted in its apo form and does not in itself represent a means of delivering host iron to the mu- cosal surface. L actoferrin will, however, readily complex any free Fe3+ that is available. Similarly, the secretion of members of the S100 family of vertebrate proteins would result in chelation of other essential metal ions but would not provide a supply of host-derived metal ions (Hood and Skaar 2012). Aside from the process of bleeding, there currently are no well-described mechanisms by which host metal ion sources would be available on the m ucosal surfaces where most microbes reside. Metal ions could certainly be transported to mucosal sur- faces by the secretions from glandular cells, which are signifi cant components on mucosal surfaces, but it may not be a well-controlled process. The prevalent forms of the metal ions on the mucosal surface are not well known. When considering the availability of essential metal ions on various muco- sal
