Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


a well-controlled process. The prevalent forms of the metal ions on the mucosal surface are not well known. When considering the availability of essential metal ions on various muco- sal surfaces, one not only has to consider the degree to which external sources (food, dust particles) are available and the degree to which host sources may be available, but also the degree to which the microbes themselves infl uence the available sources. Many microbes produce and secrete small Fe-binding chelators, termed s iderophores, which are capable of binding and sequester- ing iron in diverse environments. The selective capture by surface proteins enables the microbe to compete effectively for iron when the supply is lim- ited. Comparable systems for the specifi c capture of copper, zinc, or manga- nese have not been identifi ed, but the demonstration that some siderophores may have comparable affi nities of iron, copper, and zinc suggests that under some conditions siderophores could provide a means for other essential metal ions to piggyback on s iderophore-mediated systems. For Is Metal Uptake Related to Ecological Niche in Vertebrate Hosts? 21 Neutrophil Cu, Zn, Mn Hm-Hx Neisseria Hg-Hp Mucosal secretions Lf Cu, Zn, Mn Tf Lf RBC Mucosal layer ? Epithelial Bleeding cell Submucosal layer ? Endothelial cells Cu, Zn, Mn Neutrophil Figure 2.3 Host-derived essential metal ion sources on mucosal surfaces. Potential routes for movement of host-derived metals to the mucosal surfaces consist of migra- tion of host cells (neutrophil), bleeding, and mucosal secretions. The recent observation that Helicobacter pylori is capable of hijacking the Tf recycling system and bringing Tf-bound iron to the epithelial surface begs the question of whether microbes on mucosal surfaces have a variety of undiscovered mechanisms for bringing essential metal ions to the mucosal surface. Not to be ignored is that some bacteria can be transcytozed across the epithelial cell layer and may reside in the submucosal space. example, the Fe-binding catecholate siderophore yersiniabactin (Ybt) released by Escherichia coli also has the capacity to bind to copper. This Cu chelation capacity of Ybt contributes to higher Cu r esistance in u rinary tract infection isolates ( Chaturvedi et al. 2012). Transport across the Cytoplasmic Membrane plexes o f metal ions with proteins into the cell. Thus the fi nal stages of trans- port of metal ions across the cytoplasmic membrane are either with the free metal ion or as a metal ion complexed
