Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


the cell. Thus the fi nal stages of trans- port of metal ions across the cytoplasmic membrane are either with the free metal ion or as a metal ion complexed with small molecules. This process oc- curs irrespective of what the physiological source of metal ion is. The removal or capture of the metal ion from the host protein is a necessary prior step for protein-metal ion complexes, and the mechanisms vary considerably between Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria (Figures 2.4 and 2.5). A common mechanism for the transport of essential metal ions across the cytoplasmic membrane is through the action of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters . In addition to the cytoplasmic membrane complex, which consists of a cytoplasmic ATPase bound intimately to an in- ner membrane transporter, a specifi c binding protein component is normally 22 J. Lemire et al. Figure 2.4 Metal ion transport in Gram-negative bacteria. In this fi gure, only trans- port systems in which transport across the inner membrane is mediated by an ABC transport system (FbpABC, ZnuABC, BtuFCD) have been included. These systems typically have a periplasmic binding protein (FbpA, ZnuA, BtuF) that delivers the metal ion or metal ion complex to an inner membrane complex consisting of an in- ner membrane transporter (FbpB, ZnuB, BtuC) and a cytoplasmic ATPase component (FbpC, ZnuC, BtuD). For completeness, a porin in the outer membrane (right-hand side) has been included, although it is an unlikely mode for transport of essential metal ions across the outer membrane. The ZnuD outer membrane transporter and the Znu- ABC transport pathway represent the simplest system in which the outer membrane receptor binds Zn and transports it across the outer membrane. The BtuB outer mem- brane receptor and BtuFCD transport system for transporting v itamin B12 ( cobalamin) is a representative for heme and siderophore receptors in that the metal ion complex is directly bound and transported into the cell. The most complex system represented by the TbpAB, FbpABC system involves removal of metal ion from the protein carrier at the cell surface and transport of the metal ion into the cell. This process may involve a lipoprotein component that facilitates the transport process by delivery of the metal- containing protein to the integral outer membrane receptor protein. present as it not only confers specifi city on the transport process but also is ef- fective at capturing substrate for the transport process. In
