Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


integral outer membrane receptor protein. present as it not only confers specifi city on the transport process but also is ef- fective at capturing substrate for the transport process. In Gram-negative bac- teria the binding protein is soluble and contained within the periplasmic space (Figure 2.4), whereas in G ram-positive bacteria the proteins are lipoproteins anchored to the cytoplasmic membrane (Figure 2.5). A variety of ABC transport systems for essential metal ions have been iden- tifi ed and characterized in bacteria, including FbpABC for Fe3+, ZnuABC for zinc, MntABC for manganese, and NosVFD for copper. Careful biochemical and physiological studies, however, may be needed to defi ne the substrate pref- erence of some transport systems clearly, particularly for the Mn transporters. The structural features of the periplasmic binding proteins and related lipo- proteins that directly bind metal ions vary from the venus fl y-trap structure of Is Metal Uptake Related to Ecological Niche in Vertebrate Hosts? 23 Figure 2.5 Metal ion transport in G ram-positive bacteria. Metal ions or metal ion complexes (outlined as stars) can be captured directly by a tethered lipidated binding protein and transported across the inner membrane by the inner membrane permease- ATPase complex of the ABC transport system. A series of membrane-anchored proteins (proteins with near iron transporter, NEAT, domains) are required for the removal of heme from physiological heme sources such as h emoglobin or h emoglobin-haptoglobin complexes. After shuttling the heme between a series of NEAT domain proteins, the heme is transferred to the lipid-anchored binding protein and transported across the in- ner membrane by the ABC transporter complex. the cluster 1 type (FbpA-Fe), which involves considerable domain movement upon metal ion binding, to the more rigid cluster 8/9 type (TroA-Zn) proteins (Krewulak and Vogel 2008). Thus, the processes of metal ion removal and transport into the cell may vary. ABC transporters are also responsible for the transport of iron-siderophore complexes, heme iron, and cobalamin ( B12) into the cell. In addition, because the periplasmic binding proteins and lipoproteins all belong to the cluster 8 type, it is likely that the mechanism of removal and transport is similar to that proposed for the BtuFDC complex based on the atomic resolution structural information . In addition to the ABC transporters illustrated in Figures 2.4 and 2.5, there are a variety of other essential metal ion transport systems in the cytoplasmic membrane, such as the
