Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


In addition to the ABC transporters illustrated in Figures 2.4 and 2.5, there are a variety of other essential metal ion transport systems in the cytoplasmic membrane, such as the FeoAB (Fe2+), MntH (Mn), and ZupT (Zn) transport- ers, the latter being homologs of the eukaryotic NRAMP and ZIP transporter families. These transporters tend to have relatively broad substrate specifi cities in vitro, and determining whether their physiological role relates to a specifi c metal ion in the mammalian host can be elusive. Similarly it is unclear whether 24 J. Lemire et al. ABC transport systems or these types of transporters play more important roles in different ecological niches or under different conditions. Transport across the Gram-Negative Outer Membrane The Gram-negative outer membrane provides a semipermeable barrier con- taining substrate-specifi c porins and nonspecifi c porins that allow diffusion of small molecules of the appropriate size and charge characteristics to pass readily through their central channels along a concentration gradient (Figure 2.4). However, essential metal ions and metal ion complexes are generally in low concentrations in the external milieu; they move against a concentration gradient or are not suitable for passing through the standard porin proteins. Thus specifi c channels are required to facilitate the transport of metal ions and metal ion complexes across the outer membrane and serve to bind and capture the metal ion or metal ion complexes. Most G ram-negative bacteria have outer membrane receptor complexes that mediate the transport of specifi c metal ions or metal ion complexes across the outer membrane belonging to the TonB-dependent class of outer membrane proteins. T onB-dependent receptors interact with the cytoplasmic membrane- anchored TonB complex that is required for providing energy for the transport across the outer membrane . The simplest TonB-dependent systems are represented by ZnuD (a Zn-specifi c transporter), siderophore re- ceptors, heme receptor proteins, and BtuB as they appear simply to bind the metal ion (Zn) or metal ion complex (iron-siderophore, heme, or cobalamin) and mediate its transport across the outer membrane in a TonB-dependent manner (Figure 2.4). The apparent independence of ZnuD-mediated Zn trans- port from TonB is an interesting phenomenon, but whether it applies to acquisition of zinc from physiological sources in the host is still an open question. To some extent this is reminiscent of the inability to demon- strate a dependence for utilization of iron in Tf on the surface lipoprotein TbpB
