Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


is still an open question. To some extent this is reminiscent of the inability to demon- strate a dependence for utilization of iron in Tf on the surface lipoprotein TbpB with TbpB-defi cient strains until tested in the host . Additional complexities arise when metal ions or metal ion complexes are bound to proteins such as Tf, L f, h emoglobin, h emoglobin-haptoglobin, o r heme-hemopexin, and their removal is intrinsic to the overall transport pro- cess. The simplest are the single component receptors such as the TbpA2 re- ceptor or heme/hemoglobin receptors (HmbR). The process for heme acquisi- tion may be facilitated by production and secretion of protein hemophores to extract heme from hemoglobin and other heme sources, analogous to sidero- phores (Wandersman and Delepelaire 2004). The most complex are receptor transporter complexes consisting of a TonB-dependent integral membrane pro- tein and a surface lipoprotein, which facilitates the effi ciency of the transport process such as the TbpA-TbpB Tf receptors and the HpuA-HpuB hemoglobin-haptoglobin receptors (Rohde and Dyer 2004). The role of the accessory surface lipoprotein can be diffi cult to demonstrate, and Is Metal Uptake Related to Ecological Niche in Vertebrate Hosts? 25 the importance in the transport process may only become evident in the host . Structural studies with T onB-dependent transporters have led to insights into the process by which these proteins utilize energy transduced by the in- ner membrane TonB-Exb-ExbD complex (Figure 2.4) to mediate the transport of iron-siderophore complexes, n ickel complexes, or v itamin B12 across the outer membrane . In addition, ongoing structural and func- tional studies are beginning to provide insights into how the surface receptor complexes are able to extract iron from Tf and mediate its transport across the outer membrane. Although there is some preliminary evidence, it is not well established whether the process of transport across the outer membrane is ef- fectively coupled to the subsequent transport of ligand by the periplasm to the cytoplasm ABC transport system. Transport in Gram-Positive Bacteria Although G ram-positive bacteria do not have to contend with the potential bar- rier that the Gram-negative outer membrane represents, they still have to deal with relatively low concentrations of essential metal ions that are frequently bound to host proteins. The high binding affi nity of the lipoprotein compo- nent of ABC transporters may be suffi cient for capturing some metal ions and metal ion complexes
