Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


bound to host proteins. The high binding affi nity of the lipoprotein compo- nent of ABC transporters may be suffi cient for capturing some metal ions and metal ion complexes from the external milieu, but the competition with host proteins has required additional components for acquiring some metal ion or metal ion complexes (Figure 2.5). Thus production of siderophores provides one mechanism for acquiring iron from host Tf, and many bacteria produce lipoproteins capable of binding complexes of iron and siderophores produced by other bacteria (Figure 2.5). More complex systems involving a series of heme-binding proteins anchored to the cell wall are in- volved in acquiring heme iron from various physiological sources of heme. The cell wall-anchored proteins shuttle heme and deliver it to a lipid-anchored binding protein that transports heme iron into the cell through an ABC trans- port pathway (Figure 2.5). Metal Ion Acquisition on Mucosal Surfaces Metal Ion Acquisition in the Gastrointestinal Tract Mucosal surfaces o f the g astrointestinal tract represent a diverse set of eco- logical niches to which the colonizing microbes adapt, ranging from aerobic environments present in the o ral cavity to the acidic environment of the stom- ach to the nearly anaerobic environment of the colon. The microbial communi- ties that are established throughout the gastrointestinal tract are continuously 26 J. Lemire et al. exposed to microbes from the external environment, and this can impact the composition of the microbial fl ora and the development of disease. Although the microbes may be well adapted to the local environment, many of the microbes in the lower g astrointestinal tract (stomach and intestine) are acquired through the fecal-oral route. Thus they must also adapt to survival outside of the human or vertebrate host. In addition, the microbes are exposed to varying food sources and may thus require diverse capabilities and strat- egies for metal ion acquisition. As a consequence, versatile mechanisms of metal ion acquisition, such as the siderophore-mediated Fe acquisition mecha- nism, are often found in pathogens and inhabitants of the gastrointestinal tract. The secretion of s iderocalin (lipocalin2) by the host has been shown to limit proliferation of enteric pathogens that produce siderophores capable of being bound by siderocalin . The production of siderophores that are not bound by siderocalin is a strategy pathogens have used to overcome this growth limitation. Although microbes colonizing the gastrointestinal tract are expected primar- ily to
