Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of siderophores that are not bound by siderocalin is a strategy pathogens have used to overcome this growth limitation. Although microbes colonizing the gastrointestinal tract are expected primar- ily to access food sources of metal ions, there are unique niches where access host Fe sources may be an advantage. For example, it has recently been dem- onstrated that H. pylori is able to modulate the Tf recycling pathway in host epithelial cells with CagA and VacA, resulting in transport of submucosal Tf to the epithelial surface . Clearly this is just one example of unique adaptations to specifi c niches within the diverse microbial surfaces of the gastrointestinal tract that are likely to be revealed with further study. Metal Ion Acquisition in the Respiratory and Genitourinary Tracts Unlike the gastrointestinal tract, where there is a large intake of material con- taining metal ions from the environment, the microbes that inhabit the mucosal surfaces of the genitourinary tract (particularly the male genitourinary tract) and upper respiratory tract—excluding the oral cavity and oropharynx—may rely primarily on host sources of metal ions (Figure 2.3). Since many of the microbes and pathogens that reside in this niche are acquired primarily from other hosts through the close contact and exchange of material from the host (e.g., respiratory droplets, direct exchange during sexual contact) they are highly adapted to the only niche they inhabit: the host’s upper respiratory or genitourinary tract. This is refl ected in a relatively small genome size, many host-specifi c interactions, and, commonly, natural transformation systems that facilitate antigenic variation of surface components. Since metal ions on the upper respiratory and genitourinary tract mucosal surfaces may be primarily obtained from endogenous sources (Figure 2.3), it is perhaps not surprising that some bacteria which reside in this niche have devel- oped mechanisms of acquiring metal ions directly from host proteins. Many of the host-specifi c receptors that bind to host Fe-containing complexes (Tf, L f, h emoglobin-haptoglobin, h eme-hemopexin) have only been found in bacteria Is Metal Uptake Related to Ecological Niche in Vertebrate Hosts? 27 that reside in the g enitourinary and u pper r espiratory tracts (see Tf, Lf, Hg- Hp, Hm-Hx in Figure 2.3). It is also important to note that some bacteria are capable of attaching to host surface proteins to mediate transcytosis across epi- thelial cells, and thus may be able reside in the submucosal space (Sadarangani et
