Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


that some bacteria are capable of attaching to host surface proteins to mediate transcytosis across epi- thelial cells, and thus may be able reside in the submucosal space (Sadarangani et al. 2011) where the host Fe-binding complexes would be readily available. This raises the question of whether the ability to use host proteins directly for Fe acquisition is restricted to bacteria that are capable of accessing a different niche. Genomic comparisons of pathogenic and commensal Neisseria species suggest that some commensals have a different, and to some extent, mutually exclusive mechanism for Fe acquisition, which may be a re- fl ection of different niches. Thus our current appreciation of the mechanisms of metal ion acquisition by bacteria which reside on the genitourinary and upper respiratory mucosal surfaces may be biased by the natural focus on disease- causing bacteria. There has been a fairly extensive focus on the study of Fe acquisition mech- anisms of the Gram-negative pathogenic bacteria which reside exclusively in the genitourinary and upper respiratory tracts that directly acquire iron from host proteins and do not produce siderophores. The lack of s iderophore produc- tion is also observed in the important Gram-positive pathogen, Streptococcus pneumoniae, leading to an impression that reliance primarily on host-derived sources of metal ions by inhabitants of the genitourinary and upper respiratory tracts may lead to less reliance on siderophore-mediated mechanisms. This may refl ect the inhabiting of a particular subniche or just a bias in the microbes being studied. A more important question regarding these mucosal surfaces is: What The novel fi nding that H. pylori is capable of bringing Tf-Fe to the epithelial system by hijacking the recycling pathway begs the question of whether the in- habitants of the genitourinary and upper respiratory tracts have a diverse array of similar mechanisms for ensuring a suffi cient supply of essential metal ions. Conclusions It is readily apparent that there are many unanswered questions regarding met- al ion homeostasis and the interplay between microorganisms that colonize and infect the vertebrate host. Many of the questions will be addressed through ongoing studies that are being pursued, but some questions may require new initiatives and collaborations. The following are a limited set of questions that we feel warrant attention: • How do microbiota modulate the bioavailability of metal ions from dietary sources? What are the primary forms of metal ions that the en- terocyte is exposed
