Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


feel warrant attention: • How do microbiota modulate the bioavailability of metal ions from dietary sources? What are the primary forms of metal ions that the en- terocyte is exposed to as a consequence of microbiota actions? 28 J. Lemire et al. • How are metal ions released from the enterocyte transported to the lu- men of the blood vessels? What is the source of apo-Tf that accepts ferric ion from the enterocyte, and how does the resulting Fe-loaded Tf enter the lumen of the blood vessels? • How are metal ions in serum delivered to the tissues? Are essential metal ions from the host a primary source for microbes that inhabit the upper respiratory and genitourinary tracts? If so, what are the primary mechanisms for delivery of metal ions onto the mucosal surfaces? Competition for Metals among Microbes and Their Host Michael A. Bachman and Jeffrey N. Weiser Abstract Both microorganisms and their eukaryotic hosts must acquire and compete for metal ions, often from scarce environmental sources, for their metabolism. Since metal ions can also be toxic, their cellular levels must be precisely regulated. The battle over these nutrients may affect the balance between microbe and host, impacting infl ammatory responses and determining the outcome of this relationship during colonization and disease. This chapter examines aspects of the thrust and parry among bacteria residing in a host, and between bacteria and their host over metals. Introduction Microbial metabolism requires the acquisition of numerous metals from envi- ronmental sources. Many microbes reside within a niche, such as the mammali- an r espiratory or urinary tracts, where these nutrients are available in extremely limited quantities. To be successful in such a n iche where many species coex- ist, microbes must thus compete with one another to obtain required metals. Microbes that reside within a host face an additional challenge; namely, they must compete for these nutrients with their host, which may require the same metals for its metabolism. The most thoroughly studied of these biological bat- tles over metals involves the acquisition of iron (Fe), although there is a grow- ing appreciation over the struggle for manganese (Mn), zinc (Zn), and copper (Cu) among microbes and their hosts. Bacteria, for example, utilize iron for e lectron transport, amino acid synthesis, D NA synthesis, and protection from superoxide radicals. Under aerobic conditions, iron is primarily in the ferric [Fe (III)] oxidation state
