Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


utilize iron for e lectron transport, amino acid synthesis, D NA synthesis, and protection from superoxide radicals. Under aerobic conditions, iron is primarily in the ferric [Fe (III)] oxidation state and readily forms insoluble complexes. Sequestration of scarce quantities of soluble iron is a prototypical protective response against invading bacteria, mediated by the Fe-binding proteins transferrin and lactofer- rin and the s torage protein f erritin. In contrast to Z n supplementation, which can 30 M. A. Bachman and J. N. Weiser be protective, nutritional supplementation with iron and Fe overload states is associated with an increased risk for certain b acterial infections. Additionally, in response to infection, the host increases production of hepcidin peptide hor- mone, which acts to block Fe uptake from the gut and the release of Fe stores, thereby restricting Fe levels in the bloodstream . To acquire iron within the host and counteract Fe binding by the host, bacteria must develop ways of scrounging iron directly from host sources or secrete siderophores that bind ferric iron with greater affi nity. Growth limitation through the sequestra- tion of essential elements or nutrients has been termed “ nutritional immunity” and is now known to extend beyond Fe deprivation to other metals, including zinc and manganese (Hood and Skaar 2012). Cooperation and Competition among Bacteria for Metals The scavenging of scarce amounts of ferric iron may provide an advantage to siderophore-expressers by depleting the availability of this limiting, required nutrient for competitors. Siderophore production may also be an altruistic or cooperative trait, where the cost of production for the individual is outweighed by the benefi t to the group when other individuals can take up the siderophore- iron complex (Griffi n et al. 2004). The fi tness impact of siderophore-mediated cooperation on microbial ecology has been examined in detail using pyoverdin secreted by Pseudomonas aeruginosa . These in vitro studies demonstrate that among closely related populations (kin selection), co- operative utilization of a close relative’s siderophore is indeed favored. The in vivo relevance of these observations was subsequently shown in a w ax moth larvae infection model, where a combination of pyoverdin-cooperating P. ae- ruginosa strains were more virulent compared to other combinations (Buckling et al. 2007). In turn, microbes that are noncooperating cheats (“cheaters”) avoid the energetic cost of siderophore production but are able to obtain iron by tak- ing up siderophores made by their neighbors. Buckling
