Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


turn, microbes that are noncooperating cheats (“cheaters”) avoid the energetic cost of siderophore production but are able to obtain iron by tak- ing up siderophores made by their neighbors. Buckling et al. (2007) predict that cheats would be especially more fi t under greater Fe-limiting conditions. Neisseria gonorrhoeae, for instance, produces no known siderophores but de- pends on host-derived, Fe-binding proteins, including transferrin and lacto- ferrin, for its iron . In addition, the gonococcus has been shown to acquire its iron from siderophores produced by other bacteria (termed “x enosiderophores”), such as the common catecholate class of siderophores. In this study, xenosiderophore-mediated growth was shown to be dependent on the fbpABC operon encoding the same A BC transport system that enables the gonococcus to transport iron into the cell from host Fe-binding sources. An additional strategy for microbes to conserve the energy required for Fe uptake is to cease production of siderophores when these are no longer needed. In fact, studies from the P . aeruginosa wax moth larvae infection model demonstrate Competition for Metals among Microbes and Their Host 31 that cheaters which no longer produce pyoverdin arise de novo under condi- tions where they have a selective advantage. The full extent of competitive and cooperative interactions involving Fe acquisition in extensive and heteroge- neous microbial communities, such as within the mammalian gut, are likely to be complex and have yet to be fully explored. Microbial competition for zinc in vivo has recently been demonstrated for the gut microbe C ampylobacter jejuni. Expression of a high-affi nity ABC transporter for Zn uptake was required for Campylobacter survival in chick- en intestines in the presence of a normal microbiota, but not when chickens were reared under germ-free conditions with a more restricted microbiota. Differences in survival correlated with the presence of numerous Zn-binding proteins in the intestines of conventional chicks compared to the number in limited-microbiota chicks. This study concluded that the microbiota stimulates the production of host Zn-binding enzymes, which restrict the growth of bacte- ria that lack high-affi nity Zn transporters (Gielda and DiRita 2012). Bacterial Infection Induces Metal Ion-Sequestering Components of Innate Immunity Host–pathogen interactions often begin with colonization of mucosal surfaces. These relationships are highly specifi c, as certain microbial species are found only in particular microenvironments. We previously reported the use of tran- scriptional microarrays to screen host genes whose expression in the murine nasal
