Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


c, as certain microbial species are found only in particular microenvironments. We previously reported the use of tran- scriptional microarrays to screen host genes whose expression in the murine nasal mucosa was affected by colonization with the G ram-positive bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae . In this study, the most upregu- lated gene in response to colonization was lipocalin 2 (Lcn2, also known as siderocalin or neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, NGAL), whose ex- pression was increased up to 65-fold during colonization as measured using qRT-PCR. Western analysis showed that Lcn2 was secreted into airway surface fl uid in colonized animals. Immunohistochemical analysis localized Lcn2 ex- pression primarily to Bowman’s glands, which secrete Lcn2 into the nasal lu- men where it bathes the colonized mucosa. Similar results were observed dur- ing colonization with the Gram-negative bacterium H aemophilus infl uenzae, suggesting that Lcn2 secretion is a general response to infection of the airways that may have a role in determining the establishment or maintenance of muco- sal colonization . Indeed, Lcn2 is induced by broad innate immune signals, including TLR4 stimulation and IL-1 . Lcn2 contributes to antimicrobial defense by sequestration of a subset of microbial siderophores (Correnti and Strong 2012). Lcn2 specifi cally binds siderophores, such as the catecholate enterobactin (Ent), with an affi nity simi- lar to the Escherichia coli Ent receptor FepA; thus, it is able to compete with bacteria for Ent binding. Lcn2 is able to bind both ferric and aferric Ent, there- by depleting Ent from the microenvironment and inhibiting bacterial uptake 32 M. A. Bachman and J. N. Weiser of Ent-bound iron . As a result, Lcn2 is bacteriostatic. Bacterial growth can be restored by the addition of excess iron or Ent. In a murine sepsis model, serum Lcn2 is protective against an E. coli strain that requires Ent to obtain iron . Accordingly, Lcn2-defi cient mice (Lcn2−/−), which are otherwise healthy, succumb more readily to invasive E. coli infection. Conversely, co-injection of E. coli and a siderophore to which Lcn2 cannot bind is suffi cient to cause lethal infection in Lcn2+/+ mice. As neither S . pneumoniae nor H. infl uenzae are known to produce or uti- lize siderophores, successful colonizers of the nasal passages appear to have evolved siderophore-independent mechanisms, such as the binding and utili- zation of host sources including heme, transferrin, and lactoferrin, to acquire essential iron and to evade the inhibitory effects of
