Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


have evolved siderophore-independent mechanisms, such as the binding and utili- zation of host sources including heme, transferrin, and lactoferrin, to acquire essential iron and to evade the inhibitory effects of Lcn2. The Fe-sequestering effects of Lcn2 are likely an effective defense against Ent-dependent spe- cies in the mammalian r espiratory tract. Indeed, high levels of Lcn2 correlate with increased survival of patients with Gram-negative bacterial p neumonia . In contrast, Lcn2 appears to be less of a determining factor in the composition of the gut fl ora where the Ent-expressing members of the Enterobacteriaceae family are abundant. As is the case for ferric iron, the host also sequesters other metals required for microbial physiology during infection. To acquire zinc and manganese from the host reservoir, many bacterial species must express dedicated trans- port systems to compete for these metals. Virulence is often reduced when mutants of these Mn or Z n transporters are studied. Zinc is bound and seques- tered from microbes when bound by albumin, 2-macroglobulin, and transfer- rin (Foote and Delves 1984; Moutafchiev et al. 1998). Additionally, the Zn status of the host affects immune functions (Knoell and Liu 2010; Nairz et al. 2010), and serum Zn levels are reduced upon infection or exposure to LPS, an effect that restricts availability of the metal to invasive microbes (Weinberg 1972; Liuzzi et al. 2005). Manganese is bound by a poferritin, lactoferrin, and transferrin (Macara et al. 1973; Lönnerdal et al. 1985; Davidsson et al. 1989; Critchfi eld and Keen 1992; Aschner and Gannon 1994; Moutafchiev et al. 1998). The extracellular protein calprotectin (a heterodimer of S100A8/ S100A9 or calgranulin A and B), a major product of neutrophils that migrate to sites of infl ammation, binds manganese and possibly z inc (Kehl-Fie and Skaar 2010). Abscesses formed in response to Staphylococcus aureus infection are devoid of manganese. However, in mice lacking calprotectin, these are replete with manganese and have an increased bacterial burden, suggesting that cal- protectin-mediated Mn chelation protects against disease . It has also been postulated that other S100 proteins contribute to antimicrobial activity by restricting the bioavailability of other metals. At the other end of the spectrum, zinc may be toxic and levels elevated during infl ammation. It has been proposed that zinc, like copper, accumulates in phagosomes and may contribute to h ost defense against intracellular pathogens . Within the phagocytic cell, NRAMP1 modulates microbial access
