Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


It has been proposed that zinc, like copper, accumulates in phagosomes and may contribute to h ost defense against intracellular pathogens . Within the phagocytic cell, NRAMP1 modulates microbial access to iron, Competition for Metals among Microbes and Their Host 33 manganese, and possibly zinc within vesicles. Thus, intracellular organisms must deal with cellular mechanisms that restrict survival through modulations of local metal concentrations. The scope of the battle with the host over levels of metals for microbial communities and interactions among the microfl ora in vivo has not yet been fully explored. The Battle between Microbes and Host over Metals Affects Infl ammatory Responses A number of cell culture studies have shown siderophore-dependent effects (Bierer and Nathan 1990; Coffman et al. 1990; Autenrieth et al. 1991, 1995; Britigan et al. 1994, 1997, 2000; Hileti et al. 1995; Tanji et al. 2001; Lee et al. 2005; Paauw et al. 2009). Many, but not all, of these effects are due to Fe sequestration, and together these reports indicate that both F e defi ciency and e xcess affects immune function. For example, in cultured human respiratory epithelial cells, treatment with aferric Ent produces a dose-dependent increase in proinfl ammatory signals, such as secretion of the chemokine IL-8, which promotes an infl ux of neutrophils . Similar effects on pro- infl ammatory signaling have been attributed to the microbial siderophore de- ferrioxamine, where the effect of Fe chelation was ascribed to the activation of p38 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathways . Furthermore, siderophores are potent activators of hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), a global transcriptional regulator that enhances myeloid function and cytokine release . However, the contribution of HIF- 1 to siderophore-triggered infl ammation during infection is unknown. Through its interaction with Ent, Lcn2 can act as a signaling molecule. Two potential receptors for Lcn2 have been identifi ed: megalin and 24p3R (Devireddy et al. 2005; Hvidberg et al. 2005). Megalin is expressed in kid- ney tubules and mediates uptake of siderophore-bound complexes with iron through endocytosis . 24p3R is widely expressed in tissues, including the lung, as well as in lymphoid and myeloid cells. Although 24p3R has been shown to internalize Lcn2 alone or Lcn2 bound to a siderophore and to modulate Fe h omeostasis and apoptosis, these fi ndings are controversial . In respiratory epithelial cells, Lcn2 is internalized and potentiates the cytokine release triggered by aferric Ent. In contrast, ferric
