Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Fe h omeostasis and apoptosis, these fi ndings are controversial . In respiratory epithelial cells, Lcn2 is internalized and potentiates the cytokine release triggered by aferric Ent. In contrast, ferric Ent (Fe-Ent) does not elicit signifi cant IL-8 release. Thus, aferric Ent may be a proinfl ammatory signal for respiratory epithelial cells, permitting detection of microbial communities that have disturbed local Fe homeostasis. Lcn2 ex- pression by the host amplifi es this signal. This may be a mechanism for the mucosa to respond to metabolic signals (i.e., the depletion of ferric iron) of expanding microbial communities (i.e., the expression of increasing amounts of siderophores). 34 M. A. Bachman and J. N. Weiser depend solely on Ent for iron and have evolved to use alternative siderophores example in which the relative contribution of different Fe-scavenging systems has been studied in vivo is the Gram-negative member of the Enterobacteriaceae family, K lebsiella pneumoniae. K. p neumoniae is an opportunistic pathogen capable of colonizing multiple m ucosal surfaces, including the nasopharynx, urinary tract, and large intestine of humans; it is also a common cause of bac- terial pneumonia, urinary tract infection, and sepsis . Isolates of K. pneumoniae invariably produce Ent, and a subset produces ad- ditional siderophores, including yersiniabactin (Ybt), aerobactin, and salmo- chelin. Salmochelin is glycosylated Ent (Gly-Ent) encoded by the iroA locus in some isolates of K. pneumoniae, Salmonella enteric, and E. coli (Fischbach et al. 2006). This cluster encodes the Ent glycosylase IroB that blocks Lcn2 binding, IroC for export, IroN for import, IroE for linearization, and IroD to degrade Gly-Ent and release iron. Transformation of E. coli with the iroA locus is suffi cient to allow for lethal infection in Lcn2+/+ mice. Conversely, disrup- tion of either the iroC exporter or iroB glycoslyase attenuates virulence in a mouse model of systemic Salmonella infection . To study each potential effect of Lcn2, Lcn2-defi cient mice and K. pneu- moniae mutants predicted to be susceptible to Lcn2-mediated Fe sequestra- tion (iroA ybtS mutant) or infl ammation (iroA mutant) or to not interact with Lcn2 (entB mutant) were compared in a K. pneumoniae colonization model . During murine nasal colonization, the iroA ybtS double mutant was inhibited: iroA, entB, and ybtS mutants were not, and this inhibition was Lcn2 dependent. Therefore, either Gly-Ent or Ybt are suffi cient to protect against Lcn2-mediated growth inhibition. However, colonization with the iroA mutant induced
