Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


mutants were not, and this inhibition was Lcn2 dependent. Therefore, either Gly-Ent or Ybt are suffi cient to protect against Lcn2-mediated growth inhibition. However, colonization with the iroA mutant induced an increased infl ux of neutrophils compared to the entB mutant and this enhanced neutrophil response to Ent-producing K. pneumoniae was Lcn2 dependent. These fi ndings indicate that Lcn2 has both proinfl ammatory and Fe-sequestering effects along the respiratory mucosa in response to bacte- rial Ent and may serve as a sensor of microbial Fe metabolism to modulate the host’s response appropriately. Metal Ion Acquisition As a Determining Factor in the Pathologic Features of Infection To determine whether K. pneumoniae must produce Lcn2-resistant sidero- lates (n = 129) from respiratory, urine, blood, and stool samples through geno- typing and l iquid chromatography mass spectrometry . Three categories of K. pneumoniae isolates were identifi ed: Ent(+) (81%), Ent(+) Ybt(+) (17%), and Ent(+) Gly-Ent(+) with or without Ybt (2%). The Competition for Metals among Microbes and Their Host 35 expression of a erobactin was rare among clinical isolates of K . pneumoniae. Ent(+) Ybt(+) strains were signifi cantly overrepresented among r espiratory tract isolates (p = 0.0068). In ex vivo growth assays, Gly-Ent but not Ybt al- lowed evasion of Lcn2 in human serum, whereas siderophores were dispens- able for growth in human urine. In a murine pneumonia model, an Ent(+) strain was an opportunistic pathogen that was completely inhibited by Lcn2 but caused severe, disseminated disease in Lcn2–/– mice. In contrast, an Ent(+) Ybt(+) strain was a frank respiratory pathogen, causing pneumonia despite Lcn2. However, Lcn2 retained partial protection against disseminated disease. Ybt, therefore, is a virulence factor that promotes lower respiratory tract infec- tions through evasion of Lcn2 and leads to worsened survival from pneumonia . In addition to its role in Fe acquisition, Chaturvedi et al. (2012) report that Ybt secreted by uropathogenic E. coli facilitates bacterial infection by binding to copper and sequestering Cu(II). The removal of Cu(II) prevents catecholate-mediated reduction to the more toxic form Cu(I), which is able to generate reactive o xygen species and inactivate intracellular iron-sulfur clusters in bacteria. The siderophores Ent, Gly-Ent, and Ybt are not functionally equivalent and differ in their abilities to promote growth in the u pper respiratory tract, lungs, and serum. To understand how Lcn2 exploits functional differences between siderophores, isogenic mutants of an Ent(+) Gly-Ent(+) Ybt(+) K. pneumoni-
