Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


to promote growth in the u pper respiratory tract, lungs, and serum. To understand how Lcn2 exploits functional differences between siderophores, isogenic mutants of an Ent(+) Gly-Ent(+) Ybt(+) K. pneumoni- ae strain were inoculated into Lcn2+/+ and Lcn2–/– mice, and the pattern of pneumonia was examined . Lcn2 effectively protected against the iroA ybtS mutant [Ent(+) Gly-Ent(–) Ybt(–)]. Lcn2+/+ mice had small foci of pneumonia, whereas Lcn2–/– mice had many bacteria in the peri- vascular space. The entB mutant [Ent(–) Ybt(+) Gly-Ent(–)] caused moderate bronchopneumonia but did not invade the perivascular space that accumulated transferrin during infection. Accordingly, transferrin or serum blocked Ybt- dependent growth in vitro, a result that contrasts with experimental systems using other pathogens and growth conditions . Wild- type K. pneumoniae and its iroA mutant, which both produce Ent and Ybt, had a mixed phenotype, causing a moderate bronchopneumonia in Lcn2+/+ mice and perivascular overgrowth in Lcn2–/– mice. These fi ndings demonstrated that Ent promotes growth around blood vessels that are rich in the Fe-binding pro- tein transferrin, but Ybt does not. Together, transferrin and Lcn2 protect these spaces in the lungs against all types of K. pneumoniae tested. Therefore, the way in which iron i s acquired can be a determining factor as to where an organ- ism is able to grow and cause disease. Siderophores are also required for pulmonary infection by Bordetella per- tussis, Burkholderiea cenocepacia, Legionella pneumophila, and Yersinia pes- tis, and several of these pathogens express multiple siderophores (Brickman et al. 2008; Allard et al. 2009; Fetherston et al. 2010). In the case of Y. pestis, which has a complex life cycle with stages of infection involving different tis- sues, the inability to produce Ybt also affected infl ammation in the lungs and, 36 M. A. Bachman and J. N. Weiser in this instance, shifted an intranasal infection route from a pneumonic to a systemic disease (Fetherston et al. 2010; Lee-Lewis and Anderson 2010). In addition, a Y . pestis Ybt mutant was completely avirulent by a subcutaneous route ( bubonic plague), although a mutant defective in the Ybt system was fully virulent by an intravenous route (septicemic plague) (Fetherston et al. 2010). This indicates that the Ybt system is not essential for F e acquisition (or non-iron effects) after Y. pestis enters the bloodstream. Ferrous transport- ers are another example of systems required for Fe acquisition in some host environments
