Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


essential for F e acquisition (or non-iron effects) after Y. pestis enters the bloodstream. Ferrous transport- ers are another example of systems required for Fe acquisition in some host environments but not others. Again, Y. pestis provides an example: a Y. pestis strain with mutations in two ferrous transporters experienced a signifi cant loss of virulence in a bubonic plague model but was fully virulent in a pneumonic plague model . The same pattern holds true for a strain with mutations in the two known Mn transporters, thus demonstrating that Mn transport mechanisms affect virulence in some host environments but not oth- ers . Again, these studies illustrate that the way in which essential metals are obtained can be a determining factor in the tissue tropism for infecting agents. A recent study also demonstrated the importance of evasion of the Fe- dependent inhibitory effects of Lcn2 in the outcome of bacterial competition and in determining the composition of the microfl ora . The non- pathogenic “probiotic” bacterium E. coli strain Nissle, which is equipped with multiple redundant Fe uptake systems, outcompetes Salmonella Typhimurium in a mouse model of acute colitis and chronic persistent infection. The success of E. coli strain Nissle is dependent on its ability to acquire iron in the gut, since mutants defi cient in Fe uptake colonize the intestine but no longer reduce S. Typhimurium colonization. S. Typhimurium, however, is able to overcome the inhibitory effect of E. coli strain Nissle in Lcn2–/– mice. Deriu et al. (2013) concluded that Fe availability impacts S. Typhimurium growth and that in this example the benefi cial action of probiotic bacteria is mediated by a reduction in intestinal colonization by pathogens like S. Typhimurium through compe- tition for this limiting nutrient. Since many Ent-expressing members of the Enterobacteriaceae family normally reside in the gut lumen, a further impli- cation is that infl ammation increases the relative role of Lcn2 in modulating the fl ora in this environment. Interestingly, Nissle resembles uropathogenic E. coli strains. Genomic and metabolomic studies suggest that this subset of E. coli is generally more fi t to colonize the Fe-limited environment of the blad- der because of the expression and activity of additional siderophore systems . Detrimental Effects of Metals on Microbial Interactions Despite the requirement for metals for normal microbial and host physiol- ogy, they may be extremely toxic when present in excessive amounts or
