Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Detrimental Effects of Metals on Microbial Interactions Despite the requirement for metals for normal microbial and host physiol- ogy, they may be extremely toxic when present in excessive amounts or under Competition for Metals among Microbes and Their Host 37 certain environmental conditions. It appears that some organisms may take advantage of this situation and use the toxicity of certain metals for their own competitive success. For example, h ydrogen peroxide is produced by S . pneumoniae as a byproduct of the activity of pyruvate oxidase (SpxB) under conditions of aerobic growth. Coculture with S. pneumoniae leads to a rapid decrease in viable counts of other bacterial species . The addition of purifi ed catalase or use of an spxB mutant prevents killing of other common inhabitants of the u pper r espiratory tract (including H . infl uenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, and N eisseria meningitidis) in coculture experiments, suggesting that hydrogen peroxide may be responsible for this bactericidal ac- tivity. Production of hydrogen peroxide by S. pneumoniae has also been shown to have cytotoxic effects on human epithelial cells in culture and host tissue in animal models of pneumococcal disease. These antimicrobial and cytotoxic ef- fects are thought to occur mainly through D NA damage from hydroxyl radicals (OH•) produced via the Fenton reaction: H O + Fe2+ → Fe3+ + OH• + OH−. 2 2 Accordingly, the amount of ferrous iron (Fe2+) available to associate with DNA is believed to be a rate-limiting factor in Fenton-reaction killing. At millimolar concentrations of hydrogen peroxide generated by the pneumococcus, killing is thought to involve inactivation of housekeeping enzymes, perhaps through oxidation of active site thiols. The remarkable ability of S. pneumoniae to avoid Fenton chemistry and escape lethal damage at the high concentrations of hy- drogen peroxide it generates when grown aerobicallyallows it to outcompete species vying for the same niche . There is now clinical and experimental evidence for this effect. As is the case for the pneumococ- cus, nasal colonization by S . aureus is a major predisposing factor for subse- quent infection. Recent reports of increased S. aureus colonization and disease among children receiving pneumococcal v accine implicate S. pneumoniae as an important competitor for the same niche . Studies in a mouse model showed that expression of catalase by S. aureus contributes to the survival of this pathogen in the presence of S. pneumoniae during nasal co-
