Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


. Studies in a mouse model showed that expression of catalase by S. aureus contributes to the survival of this pathogen in the presence of S. pneumoniae during nasal co- colonization . Therefore, iron can mediate interspecies com- petition by enabling the toxic effects of r eactive oxygen molecules produced by one bacterium on its neighbor. Most antibiotics are derived from the natural products employed by mi- crobes to target other microbes. Although antibiotics act primarily on a number of essential targets of microbial physiology, there is experimental evidence, albeit controversial, that a common effect of antibiotic stress is an increase in levels of reactive oxygen species which triggers damage through the Fenton reaction (Kohanski et al. 2007; Liu and Imlay 2013). There is also a growing appreciation for how microorganisms manipulate the type and amount of po- tentially toxic metal ions to survive oxidative stress. E. coli, for example, can adapt to increased levels of hydrogen peroxide through the exchange of metals (Sobota and Imlay 2011). This mechanism involves Mn import and Fe deple- tion, converting a key enzyme in the pentose-phosphate pathway from Fenton 38 M. A. Bachman and J. N. Weiser chemistry susceptible to resistance. However, replacing iron with the wrong metal can also be disastrous. G allium, a metal structurally similar to iron but unable to perform its redox chemistry, disrupts P . aeruginosa Fe metabolism and protects mice from lethal pneumonia . Excess zinc may also be toxic to bacteria. Zinc(II) concentrations are elevated in response to infl ammation, and dietary supplementation with zinc has been associated with a decreased incidence of p neumonia in children . For the leading bacterial cause of acute r espiratory infection, S . pneumoniae, Mn(II) is an e ssential metal, but extracellular Zn(II) inhibits the acquisition of Mn(II) by competing for binding to the solute binding protein PsaA (McDevitt et al. 2011). Although the affi nity of PsaA for Zn(II) is far lower, Zn(II)-PsaA is more thermally stable than Mn(II)-PsaA. This suggests that Zn(II) may bind the permease irreversibly inducing Mn(II) starvation. Binding of Zn(II) does not lead to its transport and it does not substitute the organism’s requirement for Mn(II). The superoxide dismutase of the pneumococcus contains Mn(II), and the loss of this micronutrient leaves the organism more sensitive to oxi- dative killing by neutrophils. These observations suggest that host levels of Zn(II) and metal ion competition maybe
