Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and the loss of this micronutrient leaves the organism more sensitive to oxi- dative killing by neutrophils. These observations suggest that host levels of Zn(II) and metal ion competition maybe an important mechanism for innate defense of host mucosal surfaces. Conclusion and Future Research Directions The competition that microbes face for e ssential metals is severe and multi- faceted. Microbes compete among themselves, compete with their hosts, and even exploit host competition factors to inhibit growth of their rivals. Metals themselves compete for binding to microbial proteins and if microbes suc- cessfully accumulate substantial metal concentrations, they risk lethal toxicity. Although our understanding of microbial competition for metals is substantial, important questions remain unanswered: What are the pathologic effects of microbial metal theft by pathogens on their hosts? How does competition for metals infl uence microbiome dynamics and how do metal-based changes in our microbiome affect our health? We have clues to these questions regarding iron, but Mn, Zn, and Cu metabolism appear to be crucial to microbial fi tness as well. By unraveling the intricacies of microbial competition for metals, we may discover novel therap eutic approaches to protect us from these microbial pathogens. The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes Slade A. Loutet, Anson C. K. Chan, Marek J. Kobylarz, Meghan M. Verstraete, Stephanie Pfaffen, Bin Ye, Angel L. Arrieta, and Michael E. P. Murphy Abstract Metals are essential for all microorganisms as they are required as cofactors of enzymes that mediate metabolic processes that are indispensable for c ellular energy production and growth. Some metals, such as zinc, are readily bound and serve as key structural elements of many macromolecules. Thus, to grow, microorganisms have an essential quota for several metals. The catalytic and other chemical properties of metals that microorganisms value create issues for metal management. Due to their high affi nity for amino acids and their reactive nature, u ptake, intracellular transport, and s torage of metals are mediated by tightly regulated proteins. Protein chaperones function to sup- ply some specifi c metals to sites of utilization and, in some cases, storage. In particular, iron is diffi cult to acquire and is stored as a mineral in protein nanocages. Other metals, when present in excess, induce the expression of export systems to maintain a defi ned intracellular concentration of readily exchangeable metal. Introduction Whether a microorganism is a pathogen or a commensal, dependency on
