Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


excess, induce the expression of export systems to maintain a defi ned intracellular concentration of readily exchangeable metal. Introduction Whether a microorganism is a pathogen or a commensal, dependency on metals is universal. Although metals and metalloids dominate the periodic table, the list of e ssential metals is short and likely varies between species. The mecha- nisms by which these metals came to have biological relevance were probably infl uenced by factors such as their chemical properties and b ioavailability. The overall availability of each metal has changed over the course of geological history due to the onset of photosynthesis, which switched Earth from an an- oxic to an oxic environment (Catling and Claire 2005). As a result, metals, such as iron (Fe), were sequestered and others, such as copper (Cu) and zinc (Zn), were solubilized. Defi ning the availability of a metal also depends on the 40 S. A. Loutet et al. subcellular localization within the cell, such as the bacterial periplasm versus cytoplasm, which have differing metal concentrations as well as oxidative ver- sus reductive environments, respectively. As excessive metal concentrations can be highly toxic, tight control is maintained over the intracellular concen- tration of metals. Due to this supply limit, a given metalloprotein may not be bound to the metal for which it has the highest affi nity but rather it must com- pete for it with all of the other metalloproteins present. This c ompetition adds a layer of complexity that is diffi cult to monitor using current technologies. The metabolic pathways requiring metals are diverse, with metals often found as key cofactors in both essential and nonessential processes (Figure 4.1), including the synthesis of biological molecules (amino acids, DNA, RNA, lipids, and carbohydrates) and energy production (tricarboxylic acid [TCA] cycle, electron transport chain, and photosynthesis). Our understanding Glucose Extracellular environment Zn Cu Periplasm Cytosol Superoxide dismutase DNA Fe Mn synthesis Ni Fe DNA Glycolysis Zn Zn Transcription Ni Fe Fe Mn TCA cycle Zn Co Fe Protein synthesis Electron Fe Photosynthesis c U y r c e l a e Mn tra c n h s a p in ort Fe Fe Fe Ni Cu Ammonia Figure 4.1 The major pathways in a bacterial cell that involve one or more m etallo- proteins (light gray). Examples of the metal ion(s) involved in each pathway are high- lighted. Specifi c examples include ribonucleotide reductase (Fe, DNA
