Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


that involve one or more m etallo- proteins (light gray). Examples of the metal ion(s) involved in each pathway are high- lighted. Specifi c examples include ribonucleotide reductase (Fe, DNA synthesis), the Fur-like family (Zn/Ni/Fe/Mn, transcriptional regulation), threonyl-tRNA synthetase (Zn, protein synthesis), class II fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (Zn, g lycolysis), aconi- tase and succinate dehydrogenase (Fe, T CA cycle), arginase (Mn, urea cycle), plasto- cyanin (Cu, photosynthesis), photosystems (Fe, photosynthesis), and cytochromes and succinate dehydrogenase (Fe, e lectron transport chain). This partial picture will contin- ue to grow as studies continue to identify metalloproteins or reveal examples of metal promiscuity. In addition, proteins such as s uperoxide dismutase (dark gray) collectively utilize a variety of metals to perform the same biological function. The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes 41 of the fate of intracellular metals lies primarily within the detailed but often independent characterization of each protein that comprises the biochemical pathways within the cell. In this chapter we aim to familiarize the reader with general principles con- cerning the function of metal ions in bacteria, the movement and s torage of metals within bacterial cells, and the strategies of metal d etoxifi cation used by bacteria. We note that many gaps exist in the fundamental understanding of these processes in bacteria; in particular, little is known about these processes in relation to infection. Forms and Concentration Metals are trace elements in physiology. The total and r eadily exchangeable concentrations of specifi c metals are tightly regulated within the cell but vary greatly from metal to metal. Data on the content of specifi c metals per cell of many microorganisms are rarely available. The most comprehensive informa- tion in the literature is direct measurement of metal content by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) for Escherichia coli, some of which is summarized in Table 4.1. In general, available data stems from organ- isms that are easy to culture in a laboratory setting. Values obtained from a few species are often generalized without much supporting evidence. Large differ- ences in metal content exist as the ratio of manganese (Mn) to iron can vary by over fi ve orders of magnitude in bacteria (Lisher and Giedroc 2013). Iron and zinc are the most abundant metals in E. coli (Table 4.1). Iron is necessary for almost all forms of life under physiological conditions, it exists primarily in one of two readily interconvertible
