Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Ni- and Cu-traffi cking systems have been discovered that explain the low ex- changeable concentration of these metals in the cytoplasm. For other metals, data are limited or nonexistent. For instance, Co2+ (total concentration of <0.5 μM in E. coli) remains the major free form of cobalt (Co) in microbes, but the cytoplasmic concentration has not yet been studied. Nevertheless, the free Co concentration is likely low due to its toxic c ompeti- tion with other biologically essential metal ions (Okamoto and Eltis 2011). Mn2+ (total concentration of ~2 μM in E. coli) is imported by microorganisms for use in Mn-specifi c enzymes, and can also be exchanged with iron in the metal-binding sites of some Fe proteins (Cotruvo and Stubbe 2012). The pau- city of data on the overall metal content and speciation within many phyla of microorganisms is remarkable. Functions In biological systems, metals are observed to participate in various types of roles: they can act as signaling molecules, catalysts, or structural elements. Identifi cation of the physiologically and functionally relevant metal in pro- teins is not straightforward. The favored metal bound to a metalloprotein can, in some cases, be estimated by the observed amino acid ligands and the geometry of the metal site, though mischaracterization can occur due to the The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes 43 promiscuity of metal-binding sites and the similar chemical properties of cer- tain metals. Peptide deformylase is a prime example, emphasizing the need for careful identifi cation of the native metal . This enzyme was originally purifi ed with bound Zn2+ and later extensively characterized with bound Ni2+, a form that provided full activity. Subsequent studies, however, demonstrated that Fe2+ was bound in vivo. Moreover, Fe2+-bound peptide de- formylase is highly sensitive to inactivation by hydrogen peroxide (H O ). 2 2 During H O stress, Mn2+ import is upregulated and can displace the bound 2 2 Fe2+. Mn2+-bound peptide deformylase retains partial activity and is invulner- able to oxidation by H O (Anjem and Imlay 2012). Species-based metal co- 2 2 factor specifi city has also been observed for proteins such as the superoxide dismutases (SODs), which can collectively utilize manganese, iron, binuclear copper–zinc, or nickel . In yeast mitochondria, SOD can use ei- ther manganese or iron but selectively utilizes manganese, even though Fe concentrations are two orders of magnitude greater . Alternatively, isoenzymes utilizing different metals
