Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


yeast mitochondria, SOD can use ei- ther manganese or iron but selectively utilizes manganese, even though Fe concentrations are two orders of magnitude greater . Alternatively, isoenzymes utilizing different metals can functionally replace each other in a single organism. For example, NrdAB ribonucleotide reduc- tase is an Fe enzyme essential for E . coli aerobic growth, but under periods of Fe r estriction, the expression of Mn-dependent NrdEF is induced (Martin and Imlay 2011). Overall, this seemingly confl icting property of metal fl exibility and selectivity attests to the fi nely tuned, but adaptable nature of m etal homeo- stasis within an organism. As a part of this adaptable nature, metals are involved in signal transduction pathways and are recognized by sensory proteins to maintain metal homeosta- sis. Changes in metal content can indicate a change in the environment, such as the transition experienced by a pathogen moving from an external envi- ronment to inside a host. In addition, host organisms actively sequester met- als from bacterial commensals and pathogens alike. Therefore, bacteria must have the ability to sense the abundance of each metal and respond accord- ingly. Metal homeostasis is controlled by sensory proteins that bind specifi c metals and regulate uptake, export, or utilization of the metal. A classic ex- ample is the Fur-like family of related bacterial regulators—Fur, Z ur, Mur, and Nur—which recognize and regulate Fe2+, Zn2+, Mn2+ and Ni2+ homeostasis, respectively . Metal complexes such as heme can also function as signaling molecules. One example is HrtR from the commensal Lactococcus lactis, which is a heme sensor that regulates a h eme effl ux system (Lechardeur et al. 2012). In addition to their direct role in regulating metal acquisition, these sensory proteins can also modulate the expression of virulence and survival factors. For example, S taphylococcus aureus Fur was discovered to enhance the expression of several immunomodulatory proteins: protein A (SpA), staphylococcal im- munoglobulin G-binding protein (Sbi), and extracellular fi brinogen-binding protein (Efb) . 44 S. A. Loutet et al. Deprivation of iron typically elicits a complex response which ultimately results in a metabolic shift to pathways that rely less on iron. In S. aureus, this “iron-sparing” response redirects its metabolism from the Fe-requiring tricar- boxylic acid (TCA) cycle and respiratory chain to the Fe-independent glyco- lytic pathway . Little is known of the potential metabolic shifts akin to “iron sparing,” when bacteria fi nd
