Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


boxylic acid (TCA) cycle and respiratory chain to the Fe-independent glyco- lytic pathway . Little is known of the potential metabolic shifts akin to “iron sparing,” when bacteria fi nd themselves in environments low in other metals. In some rare cases, select bacteria completely eliminate the need for a particular metal as a metabolic strategy. Notably, B orrelia burg- dorferi—the only known bacteria that does not directly require iron or produce nucleotides de novo—is an obligate intracellular parasite that appears to utilize manganese in key proteins and depends on its (iron-requiring) host for essen- tial nutrients (Posey and Gherardini 2000). Transition metals (i.e., those elements in the d-block of the periodic table) play essential catalytic roles in microbial metabolic pathways. Of the transition metals, iron is commonly employed because its reduction potential is favorable for biochemical reactions. Iron is typically incorporated into enzymes as free ions, heme, or iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters, with the majority of Fe enzymes fall- ing under the oxidoreductase class . An essential free Fe- containing enzyme is the NrdAB r ibonucleotide reductase, which produces de- oxyribonucleotides from ribonucleotides for D NA synthesis and repair (Ando et al. 2011). The TCA cycle enzyme aconitase is a well-known Fe-S cluster enzyme responsible for the isomerization of c itrate into isocitrate (Prodromou et al. 1992). Heme iron plays a major role in the electron transport chain as a cofactor in cytochromes, which mediate electron transfer that ultimately leads to the generation of ATP (Kamen and Horio 1970). Enzymes can also require more than one type of iron. For example, succinate dehydrogenase plays a role in both the TCA cycle and the electron transport chain, and contains three Fe-S clusters as well as a heme cofactor . In biological molecules, cobalt is often bound in the center of a cyclic, four pyrrole ring structure (corrin). Derivatization of the corrin ring leads to a fam- ily of compounds known as the corrinoids, the most well-known of which is c obalamin (v itamin B12). Methionine synthase utilizes a cobalamin co- factor to transfer a methyl group to homocysteine, thus forming methionine . The noncorrin Co enzyme methionine aminopeptidase is also involved in methionine metabolism and catalyzes the removal of the N-terminal methionine from newly synthesized peptides (Ben-Bassat et al. 1987). Methionine aminopeptidase is essential for the maturation, subcellular localization, and degradation of many proteins (Kobayashi and Shimizu 1999), and inactivation of this
