Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


from newly synthesized peptides (Ben-Bassat et al. 1987). Methionine aminopeptidase is essential for the maturation, subcellular localization, and degradation of many proteins (Kobayashi and Shimizu 1999), and inactivation of this enzyme has been demonstrated to be lethal in organ- isms such as E . coli . Despite all of the work that has been done to characterize methionine aminopeptidase as a Co enzyme, some have suggested that iron is the true cofactor inside E. coli . Zinc is an essential transition metal estimated to be used by 4–10% of pro- teins encoded by the genome of some organisms . In The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes 45 fact, it is the second most abundant metal in characterized enzymes, behind magnesium and slightly ahead of iron . The majority of prokaryotic Zn proteins are enzymatic in nature, although the Zn cofactor can participate as either a structural or catalytic component. In addition to acting as a catalytic Lewis acid, zinc is distinct from other common transition metals in that it lacks redox reactivity and is thus an excellent metal for stabilizing negative charges. Not surprisingly, examples of Zn proteins are found in all six major classes of enzymes, with the largest proportion being hydrolases such as alkaline phosphatase and thermolysin. Nickel is an essential metal in some prokaryotes. For the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori, two Ni-containing enzymes contribute to its pathogenic- ity (Eaton et al. 1991; Olson and Maier 2002). Nickel-iron h ydrogenase allows for the use of molecular H as a substrate for respiration. Urease is an essential factor in stomach colonization; it neutralizes stomach acid through the produc- tion of ammonia. No bacterial Cu-dependent proteins have been observed to be localized to the cytoplasm (Rensing and McDevitt 2013). Thus far, only ten types of Cu enzymes have been identifi ed in prokaryotes, with c ytochrome c oxidase pres- ent in most organisms. In E . coli, the major periplasmic Cu protein is CueO, a multicopper oxidase that is part of a Cu- resistance mechanism (Roberts et al. 2002). In cyanobacteria, copper is shuttled into the thylakoid, a special- ized compartment with Cu-requiring p hotosynthetic and respiratory electron transport proteins . All other characterized Cu proteins are localized either to the periplasm or to the cytoplasmic membrane with the ac- tive, Cu-binding site facing away from the cytoplasm. In cases where the metal is structural, the selected metals
