Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


either to the periplasm or to the cytoplasmic membrane with the ac- tive, Cu-binding site facing away from the cytoplasm. In cases where the metal is structural, the selected metals tend to be redox inert and can act to neutralize repulsive negative charges. The most common metal in this capacity is Mg2+, which plays a major role in stabilizing the struc- tures of DNA and RNA backbone phosphate groups (Sreedhara and Cowan 2002) and assists in orienting the phosphate groups in nucleoside triphosphate (e.g., ATP, GTP, CTP, TTP) bound to enzymes . Ca2+ is another common structural metal, but it is primarily exploited by extracellular proteins, polysaccharides, and other cell wall components . A well- known structural feature containing a transition metal is the Zn fi nger motif, which mediates DNA- and RNA-binding as well as protein–protein interac- tions . Zinc can also play a structural role in certain Fur proteins, such as those from E. coli and H. pylori, where it binds to a second, nonregulatory site (Jacquamet et al. 1998; Vitale et al. 2009). Although the molecular details of metal uptake and effl ux are relatively well studied and the list of characterized metal-binding proteins continues to grow, the distribution of such metals within a cell remains largely unchar- acterized. Only recently have we begun to characterize the metalloproteome on a global scale with suffi ciently high enough resolution to determine such detailed metal distribution information within a subcellular context. A recent 46 S. A. Loutet et al. study on the pathogen B acillus anthracis revealed that cytoplasmic iron was primarily found in only four major pools: the electron transfer protein f erre- doxin, the miniferritin D ps2, two co-eluted S ODs (SodA1 and SodA2), and a single unidentifi able pool of metalloprotein(s) . Interestingly, m anganese consisted of a single major pool, which was identifi ed to be SodA1 as well. Through further investigation, Tu et al. revealed that SodA1 consists of a mixed population primarily bound to manganese in vivo, with the remaining population bound to iron. In contrast, SodA2 is exclusively bound to iron. A key question facing m etalloprotein research is the relative role of metals between commensal and pathogenic bacteria. Pathogens have been observed to carry a larger genetic toolbox of metal acquisition proteins and metallo- enzymes required for pathogenicity and antibiotic resistance. For example, genes encoding receptors for the siderophores yersiniabactin (Ybt)
