Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


observed to carry a larger genetic toolbox of metal acquisition proteins and metallo- enzymes required for pathogenicity and antibiotic resistance. For example, genes encoding receptors for the siderophores yersiniabactin (Ybt) and aero- bactin are more common in extraintestinal pathogenic E. coli than in commen- sal strains . S. aureus produces two distinct SODs as compared to the less virulent coagulase-negative Staphylococcus spp., which generally have one . In addition, many pathogenic Gram-positive bacteria possess FosB, a divalent metal-dependent thiol-S-transferase impli- cated in fosfomycin resistance . The difference between a commensal and a related pathogen, however, may be at the level of expression control rather than gene content, as known genomic pathogenicity islands were identifi ed in nearly 50% of randomly surveyed commensal fecal E. coli strains . A given organism may act as a commensal or a pathogen, depending on signals from its environment. Serotyping and genotyping studies have shown, in the same individual, that both asymptomatic intestinal E. coli and uropathogenic E. coli are clonally related (Grüneberg 1969; Yamamoto et al. 1997). Further confounding these issues are opportunistic pathogens, which take advantage of negative perturbations to the host defense systems. Taken together, whether or not pathogens and commensals have differ- ent metal requirements remains an open question. They may have the same general metal requirements, since many of the roles played by metals dis- cussed here are conserved among commensals and pathogens. They might also be distinguished by the possession and regulation of metal uptake and detoxifi cation systems. Current techniques do not allow for detailed analy- ses of metal-requiring processes on a global and dynamic scale. Advances in high-resolution m etallomics techniques, such as those discussed by Maret et al. (this volume), hold promise in providing great insight into metal functions and fl uxes within a bacterium, and how these change under different envi- ronmental conditions. New data will also inform us on intra- and interspecies differences in metal usage. These data have the potential to lead novel tools for infection control, bioremediation, or bioengineering based on bacterial metal-dependent processes. The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes 47 Metallochaperones M etallochaperones are a class of metalloproteins that bind metal ions and move them between uptake pathways, functional sites, storage systems, or detoxifi - cation pathways (Figure 4.2). They insert metal ions into other proteins via specifi c protein–protein interactions. Free metal ions must be quickly bound by
