Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


sites, storage systems, or detoxifi - cation pathways (Figure 4.2). They insert metal ions into other proteins via specifi c protein–protein interactions. Free metal ions must be quickly bound by the cognate metallochaperones to both facilitate transfer to the correct location and protect the cell from t oxicity associated with free intracellular metal ions. The activity of metallochaperone proteins can be divided into three stages: (a) selective binding of the cognate metal ion, (b) identifi cation of and interaction with the desired target metalloprotein, and (c) transfer of the metal ion to the target metalloproteins . In general, metal ions are bound to metallochaperones at exposed sites to facilitate protein-to-protein metal ion exchange. An example is the periplasmic protein CusF: a Cu1+ and Ag1+ chaperone for the CusCBA metal detoxifi cation system . CusF adopts a β-barrel fold and binds either Cu1+ or Ag1+ ions at a site at one end of the barrel . For a given metal, chaperones with different protein folds and binding pockets may exist. For example, Cu chaperones use at least four different protein folds and binding pockets (Robinson and Winge 2010). Purifi ed metallochaperones are often poorly selective for binding of the correct metal ion in vitro. Ni2+ bind- ing by UreE, the metallochaperone for urease assembly, can be outcompeted by Cu2+ and Zn2+ in vitro (Brayman and Hausinger 1996). In a bacterial cell, a number of factors likely contribute to the correct metal selection by metallo- chaperones (Tottey et al. 2005; Maret 2010). Bacteria maintain a limited metal pool through restriction of the readily exchangeable metal concentration by expressing storage systems and selective metal import and export systems. Compartmentalization within the bacterial cell can co-localize proteins in the presence of certain metals. Some metalloproteins undergo allosteric changes upon binding of only the correct metal ion. Finally, bacteria can alter their me- tabolism to exploit the most plentiful metals. Once a metallochaperone has acquired its cognate metal ion, it must iden- tify and interact with the correct target protein. These protein–protein interac- tions are driven by the factors that infl uence all protein–protein interactions, such as electrostatic or hydrophobic interactions between exposed surfaces . For metallochaperone–target protein interactions, other common features include a requirement for the correct metal ion and structural similarity between the metallochaperone and the target. The speci- fi city of protein–protein interactions likely contributes to the target metallo- proteins binding the
