Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


for the correct metal ion and structural similarity between the metallochaperone and the target. The speci- fi city of protein–protein interactions likely contributes to the target metallo- proteins binding the correct metal despite energetic constraints. Finally, the metallo chaperone must deliver its metal ion to the target protein. Metal transfer often involves ligand exchange reactions, where both proteins use the same li- gands to coordinate the metal ion and, in a stepwise fashion, transfer the metal from the metallochaperone to the target. In some systems, such as the transfer 48 S. A. Loutet et al. Metallochaperone- bound metals (Cu, Ni, Co, Mo?,W?, V?) Process 1 Process 3 Process 2 Process 5 or or Process 9 Process 6 Process 4 Process 10 Process 7 Process 8 Metal complexes Metabolite- (heme, [Fe-S], mocos) bound metals (Zn, Fe, Mn) Legend Metallochaperone Metal-binding metabolite Metal ion Metal import/export Metal ion complex Metalloprotein Figure 4.2 Metallochaperones are part of a complex set of metal pools that exist to minimize the concentration of free metal ions. The metalloprotein symbol represents proteins with a metal ion as a cofactor, with metal serving a structural role, or with met- al being stored. Degraded metalloproteins are represented with dashed outlines. Most, but not all, of the processes illustrated have been experimentally demonstrated. For some metals (top), metallochaperones act to transport metal ions from import systems to target metalloproteins (Process 1). They can also recover metal ions after metallo- protein degradation (Process 2) and transport excess metal ions to export systems (Pro- cess 3). Metallochaperones perform similar functions for metal complexes (left). These complexes can be directly imported (Process 4) or they can be synthesized de novo (Process 5) with metals obtained from a metallochaperone protein pool or a metabolite- bound pool (Process 6). Metal complexes can also be exported from the cell (Process 7). Some metals (bottom right) are proposed to be bound by small metabolites to buffer the bacterium from free metal ions. The metal-bound metabolites are thought to be in equilibrium with some metal-bound proteins (Process 8). Metal bound to metabolites may bind tightly to metalloproteins and be released only upon protein degradation (Pro- cess 9). Theoretically, these metabolites would interact with import and export systems (Process 10). For illustrative purposes these interactions are all being shown as occur- ring within the bacterial cytoplasm; however, many of these processes also occur in the bacterial cell envelope. The
