Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


10). For illustrative purposes these interactions are all being shown as occur- ring within the bacterial cytoplasm; however, many of these processes also occur in the bacterial cell envelope. The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes 49 of Ni2+ from UreE to the u rease enzyme complex , trans- fer of the metal ion to the target metalloprotein requires the assistance of ac- cessory proteins. Accessory proteins can act as scaffolds to enhance protein– protein interactions; they can provide energy or other enzymatic functions. In the case of the urease complex , UreD acts as a scaffold between the UreABC enzyme and other proteins required for maturation of the enzyme. Ni2+ insertion into the urease complex requires GTP hydrolysis, a function provided by UreG. A third accessory protein, UreF, is suggested to enhance the interaction between the GTPase activity of UreG and Ni2+ inser- tion by UreE. In cells, metal ions can also be found bound to nonprotein cofactors, such as iron bound to protoporphyrin IV ( heme) or m olybdenum (Mo) bound by a family of related cofactors (known as the Mocos). Metallochaperones ex- ist for these types of complexes: CcmE is a periplasmic heme-binding pro- tein that delivers heme to cytochrome c , whereas specifi c chaperones deliver each of the Mocos to their appropriate targets (Neumann and Leimkühler 2011). Another well-known example of a nonprotein cofactor is the widely used Fe-S clusters . In bacteria, at least three different Fe-S biosynthetic clusters exist, with the IscU system being the most well characterized (Vickery and Cupp-Vickery 2007). Although precise mechanistic details are still being characterized, IscU is responsible for build- ing the Fe-S cluster, which is then transferred to an acceptor protein, such as f erredoxin or aconitase, with the assistance of two accessory proteins (HscA and HscB) (Vickery and Cupp-Vickery 2007). The state of knowledge with regards to metallochaperones for the metals varies. Numerous Cu and Ni chaperones have been described in the litera- ture. Given the prevalence of Fe- and Zn-containing proteins, relatively little is known about metallochaperones for these elements. As proposed elsewhere (see Cavet et al., this volume), due to the large number of zinc, mononuclear iron, and Mn-containing proteins, we speculate that small molecule ligands (e.g., histidine and g lutathione) rather than proteins might be used as chap- erones for these elements. We believe that other metals used by bacteria in a
