Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


small molecule ligands (e.g., histidine and g lutathione) rather than proteins might be used as chap- erones for these elements. We believe that other metals used by bacteria in a smaller number of metalloproteins, including cobalt, v anadium, and t ungsten, also likely use protein chaperones; however, little data concerning chaperones for these elements are available. New avenues of metallochaperone research are likely to open up as emerging evidence from metalloproteome studies indicates that a wider va- riety of metals are incorporated into metalloproteins than previously thought. Metallochaperone research has mainly been confi ned to a subset of bacteria, particularly those causing disease. Environmental bacteria living in diverse ecosystems likely utilize additional sources of metals and contain novel metal- lochaperones. Finally, the proposed use of small molecule ligands as chaper- ones for zinc, manganese, and iron inside the bacterial cell awaits further study. 50 S. A. Loutet et al. Detoxifi cation and Cytoplasmic Metal Export Metals o ften g et into microbial cells via infl ux pumps for essential elements and must be selectively handled by membrane transport mechanisms, as many are harmful to bacteria. Metals demonstrate t oxicity due to their chemical af- fi nity for thiol groups, which can alter enzyme specifi city and disrupt cellular functions. Still, some metals (e.g., iron, cobalt, copper, and zinc) are essen- tial micronutrients but can also be toxic at high levels . The challenge for the bacterial cell is to maintain a level of homeostasis be- tween metal uptake for n utrition and membrane transport out to avoid toxicity. Microorganisms have adapted by developing a variety of resistance mecha- nisms, including energy-dependent effl ux, enzymatic transformations, seques- tration by metal-binding proteins and siderophores, and precipitation of metal sulfi des (Figure 4.3). These metabolic responses differ for each metal. Figure 4.3 Examples of mechanisms of metal detoxifi cation and r esistance. Enzy- matic detoxifi cation ( mercury reductase, green) alters a metal to a less toxic form. Mer- cury reduced to Hg0 is volatile and diffuses out of the cell (dashed line). Periplasmic (S ilE, blue) and cytoplasmic proteins (metallothionein, blue) mediate resistance by binding excess intracellular metals. Cation diffusion facilitator family pumps (CzcD, pink), CBA effl ux transport systems (CzcCBA, yellow), and P-type ATPases (CadA, orange) are all energy-dependent effl ux systems. Siderophores (e.g., pyoverdine) bind metals to lower the extracellular free metal ion concentration and can also participate in metal
