Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and P-type ATPases (CadA, orange) are all energy-dependent effl ux systems. Siderophores (e.g., pyoverdine) bind metals to lower the extracellular free metal ion concentration and can also participate in metal sulfi de precipitation (e.g., pyridine-2,6-bis[thiocarboxylic acid]). For illustrative purposes a Gram-negative bacteria with an outer membrane is depicted: dotted lines illustrate the extracytoplasmic movement of metal ions in Gram-positive bacteria or movement of metal ions through the Gram-negative outer membrane that are poorly understood. The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes 51 The most frequent, widespread mechanism of metal resistance is energy- dependent effl ux, generally without coincident covalent or redox chemistry. Effl ux systems fall into a small number of families (Nies 2003; Silver and Phung 2005). These include P-type ATPases, which are single polypeptide de- terminants with an intermediate phosphorylated by ATP; cation diffusion fa- cilitator pumps that are made up by a single polypeptide chemiosmotic pump; and export systems driven by resistance-nodulation-cell division (RND), which are comprised of three proteins: (a) an inner membrane RND protein, supported by (b) a membrane fusion protein (MFP) that provides a connection through the periplasmic space to (c) a protein belonging to the family of outer membrane factors (OMFs). These three proteins form a complex that can ef- fl ux its respective substrate from the cytoplasm, cytoplasmic membrane, or periplasm across the outer membrane to outside the cell. To differentiate this type of effl ux mechanism from ATP-driven A BC transporters, the RND-driven export system is also referred to as a CBA effl ux system. Cadmium resistance, for example, is found widely in environmental and clinical isolates for which three types of cadmium effl ux mechanisms have been discovered. The CzcD single membrane polypeptide chemiosmotic pump confers resistance by pumping out metal ions directly from the cytoplasm . The czc resistance determinant also encodes a CBA effl ux system and contains the genes for the OMF CzcC, the MFP CzcB and the CzcA protein of the RND family . This effl ux system may have the ability to pump metal ions out of both the cytoplasm and the periplasm (Nies 2003) as well as to confer some resistance to Co2+ and Zn2+ . CadA, a large single polypeptide P-type ATPase, can also contribute to Cd2+ resistance . P-type ATPases and other transporters for metal effl ux have also been found to be involved in extracytoplasmic protein metalation (Arguello et al.
