Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


can also contribute to Cd2+ resistance . P-type ATPases and other transporters for metal effl ux have also been found to be involved in extracytoplasmic protein metalation (Arguello et al. 2013). In Rhodobacter capsulatus the metalation of the periplasmic protein, cbb cytochrome c oxidase (cbb -COX), requires transport of Cu+ through a 3 3 major facilitator superfamily transporter protein . Gonzalez- Guerrero et al. (2010) described two nonredundant Cu+-ATPases, CopA1 and CopA2, in P seudomonas aeruginosa. CopA1 represents a classical Cu+- ATPase for Cu+ effl ux, whereas CopA2 has comparably slower transport ki- netics and higher affi nity for Cu+. Deletion of copA2 results in a mutant with decreased cytochrome c oxidase activity, thus suggesting that the properties of CopA2 are suitable for participation in the assembly of cuproproteins like ccb3-COX. Another metal resistance mechanism that has evolved for bacteria is the enzymatic detoxifi cation of a metal to a less toxic form. M ercury resistance, encoded by the mer operon, is a broadly occurring toxic metal resistance sys- tem found in Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria from environmental, developed a way to bind extracellular Hg2+ and transport it into the cytoplasm 52 S. A. Loutet et al. using a series of c ysteines on different proteins, termed a thiol “bucket bri- gade,” to active sites on mercuric reductase, while ensuring that no toxic mer- cury is free within the cell to cause damage (Silver and Phung 2005). In G ram- negative bacteria, there is no outer membrane protein known to be involved in the Hg2+ transport system. Instead, a periplasmic MerP protein is thought to relay Hg2+ to the inner membrane protein MerT. Once Hg2+ is at the inner sur- face of the cytoplasmic membrane, it is likely transferred to mercuric reductase (MerA) by cysteine-pair to cysteine-pair exchange. Thereafter, Hg2+ is reduced to elemental m ercury (Furukawa and Tonomura 1972; Schiering et al. 1991), which is volatile and able to diffuse out of the cell . Intracellular sequestration of toxic cations by metal-binding proteins serves as another method of metal resistance. Cd2+ and Zn2+ are commonly seques- tered by cysteine-rich proteins, such as metallothionein . These small polythiol metal cation-binding proteins function to lower free metal ion concentrations within the cytoplasm and afford a level of resistance. Another example of binding by sequestration is the Sil Ag+ resistance system in which resistance is partly facilitated by a small periplasmic metal-binding
