Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


cytoplasm and afford a level of resistance. Another example of binding by sequestration is the Sil Ag+ resistance system in which resistance is partly facilitated by a small periplasmic metal-binding protein, SilE . Metal resistance is also mediated through the secretion of s iderophores, which are low molecular weight molecules primarily produced for ferric iron acquisition. Siderophores can serve as multifunctional metabolites that are able to bind other metals outside of the cell and protect against metal tox- icity. An example of this environmental conditioning is the production of pyridine-2,6-bis(thiocarboxylic acid) (PDTC) siderophore by Pseudomonas stutzeri . This siderophore can form poorly soluble complexes with Hg2+, Cd2+, Pb2+, and As3+ and hydrolyze them to form in- soluble metal sulfi des. Precipitation of metals as metal sulfi des using sid- erophores acts as an environmental detoxifi cation mechanism by restricting the b ioavailability of extracellular metals. Conversely, P DTC can also fa- cilitate Zn utilization, as well as Fe uptake, in Pseudomonas putida (Leach et al. 2007). Another example of siderophores mediating bacterial tolerance to metals is the production of pyoverdine and pyochelin by P. aeruginosa . Despite their preference for iron, these siderophores are able to bind Al3+, Co2+, Cu2+, Ni2+, Pb2+, and Zn2+ in the extracellular milieu, leading to increased P . aeruginosa resistance and decreased intracellular metal accumulation. Uropathogenic E. coli (UPEC) uses Ybt to chelate host Cu2+ and prevent its reduction to the more bactericidal form, Cu1+, thus in- creasing the Cu resistance of UPEC . Importantly, the Cu2+-Ybt complex was identifi ed in samples from human patients with ac- tive u rinary tract infections with UPEC. Though siderophores mediate metal detoxifi cation outside of the cell, they are an intracellular crafted mechanism of resistance. The diversity seen in siderophore chemical composition, the upregulation of siderophore production in response to metals other than iron, the ability of siderophores to bind iron and other metals tightly, the fact that The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes 53 some bacteria make multiple siderophores, and the observation during infec- tions that siderophores play roles in metal binding and detoxifi cation all sup- port the idea that siderophores have evolved to perform multiple physiologi- cal functions with regards to homeostasis of iron and other metals (Schalk et al. 2011). Metal detoxifi cation is a rapidly advancing fi eld of research. Campylobacter jejuni has recently been shown to possess a membrane
