Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of iron and other metals (Schalk et al. 2011). Metal detoxifi cation is a rapidly advancing fi eld of research. Campylobacter jejuni has recently been shown to possess a membrane permease for the remov- al of roxarsone and nitarsone (organic arsenic molecules added to chicken and poultry feed to reduce b acterial infections and increase weight gain) from the cytoplasm . The permease was specifi c to these organic arse- nic forms and played no role in arsenite or arsenate resistance. M ycobacterium tuberculosis produces an extracytoplasmic multicopper oxidase that partici- pates in Cu resistance (Rowland and Niederweis 2013). Bacteria can also pre- cipitate metals as inorganic sulfi des, such as nickel sulfi de and cobalt pentland- ite (Co S ) . Many more detoxifi cation strategies are being 9 8 characterized as they are becoming more ubiquitous among bacterial popula- systems are commonly co-selected for with antibiotic resistance genes due to genetic co-resistance and physiological cross-resistance mechanisms (Baker- Austin et al. 2006). There is growing concern that metal contamination is in- directly selecting for antibiotic resistance, and studies have shown that metal- contaminated environments contain an overabundance of antibiotic resistance genes . Storage Iron in excess of that which is needed for cellular homeostasis is toxic and potentially lethal to the cell. Therefore, most organisms, including bacteria, have evolved a strategy that involves the use of proteins of the f erritin su- perfamily to protect cells from the harmful effects of excess iron (Andrews 2010). Ferritins are the major proteins that bind and store nonheme iron inside cells. The typical ferritin consists of 24 subunits, forming a hollow sphere that takes up soluble ferrous iron and oxidizes it at di-iron ferroxidase centers for s torage as a ferric mineral within the central cavity. Mammalian ferritins are composed of two different subunits: the H-chain subunit contains the catalytic ferroxidase center, and the L-chain subunit contains mineral nucleation sites. In bacteria, two ferritin subtypes are found: the heme-containing b acteriofer- ritin (BFR) and the bacterial ferritin. Both types are homopolymers in which the monomer contains the ferroxidase site and the mineral nucleation sites. Both BFR and bacterial ferritin play a role in Fe storage but may also have more specialized functions in Fe detoxifi cation, depending on the organism (Le Brun et al. 2010). Although both could theoretically hold up to 4500 Fe atoms (Crichton and Declercq 2010), when isolated from
