Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


in Fe detoxifi cation, depending on the organism (Le Brun et al. 2010). Although both could theoretically hold up to 4500 Fe atoms (Crichton and Declercq 2010), when isolated from non-overexpressing 54 S. A. Loutet et al. sources, BFR holds between 800 and 1600 Fe atoms whereas bacterial ferritin typically stores between 600 and 2300 Fe atoms . Outside the catalytic residues of the ferroxidase site, only a few residues are conserved between ferritin subfamilies , and amino acid sequence identities can be as low as 15%. Overall structure, however, is con- served among ferritins and BFR (Crichton and Declercq 2010). The ferroxi- dase center is located in the center of the monomer, a four helix bundle with a short fi fth helix at the C-terminus, and consists of two Fe-binding sites: site A and site B. However, the ferroxidase centers of B FR and bacterial ferritins are distinct in their Fe-coordinating ligand arrangement. In bacterial ferritin, a third Fe-binding site, site C, is located near the ferroxidase center. In the E. coli ferritin A, this site is not essential for rapid Fe oxidation but has an effect on the Fe mineralization and Fe movement into the protein cavity (Bou-Abdallah et al. 2014). Residues coordinating to site C are highly conserved in bacterial ferritins, indicating the functional importance of this site (Le Brun et al. 2010). Although ferritin is the most studied and best understood metal storage pro- tein, little is known about how iron enters and exits ferritin. Iron entry and exit in ferritin is suggested to be through their threefold channels (Treffry et al. 1993). However, ferritins also have B-channels, which are located between two subunit dimers . The roles of the channels in ferritin are Fe2+ uptake but may play an important role in Fe release . A third Fe s torage protein found in bacteria is the D ps (DNA-binding pro- tein from starved cells) ferritin. Dps ferritin forms a 12mer and can store up to 500 Fe atoms (Crichton and Declercq 2010). However, the function of Dps ferritin lies more in protecting DNA against oxidative and mechanical stress as well as enzymatic degradation . Other known metal storage proteins found in bacteria have a much lower storage capacity. For example, MoSto from A zotobacter vinelandii is a hexa- meric Mo storage protein that is functionally related to nitrogen fi xation by supplying nitrogenase with molybdenum.
