Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


lower storage capacity. For example, MoSto from A zotobacter vinelandii is a hexa- meric Mo storage protein that is functionally related to nitrogen fi xation by supplying nitrogenase with molybdenum. It can store more than 100 Mo atoms per hexamer as a polyoxomolybdate cluster in an interior cavity (Kowalewski et al. 2012). Another example is E. coli SlyD, which can bind two to seven Ni ions in its unstructured C-terminal region. This protein is proposed to act as a reservoir for nickel, but also contributes to the insertion of n ickel into the hy- drogenase precursor protein by transferring Ni atoms to the auxiliary protein HypB and modulating its activities . Ferritin is the most studied and best understood metal storage protein and the only known storage protein with a high capacity of several hundred to thousands of metal ions. MoSto is the only other example that we have come across of a mass storage protein similar to ferritin. In contrast, other known storage proteins can bind few metal ions, and storage by these proteins is con- sidered to be a secondary function. The Fate of Intracellular Metal Ions in Microbes 55 Concluding Remarks Although much progress has been made on the fate of intracellular metal ions in bacteria, many key questions are still outstanding. We know that metal ions play diverse functional and structural roles in bacterial cells but that they can be toxic at high concentrations. Bacteria have evolved machinery to (a) take up metal ions, (b) transport and deliver metal ions to the appropriate locations in cells, and (c) sequester, store, and, if necessary, expel metal ions to maintain an appropriate concentration of metal ions. Of the t ransition metals, iron, cop- per, nickel, zinc, m anganese, m olybdenum, c obalt, v anadium, and t ungsten have been shown to be used by bacteria. Bacteria are also exposed to and can detoxify many other toxic transition metals, such as chromium, cadmium, or mercury. This function makes bacteria potential agents for bioremediation. Despite our advanced knowledge about many metalloproteins, we have yet to identify the complete m etalloproteome, even in well-studied bacteria. New technologies should help to identify new metalloproteins and give us a greater sense of the metalloproteome of a given organism or a meta-metalloproteome from a complex, multi species sample. A well-curated, online resource cata- logue of known and predicted metalloproteins would be a welcome resource
