Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


metalloproteome of a given organism or a meta-metalloproteome from a complex, multi species sample. A well-curated, online resource cata- logue of known and predicted metalloproteins would be a welcome resource to metallo-microbiologists. One such platform was the Metalloprotein Database and Browser , which provided a database of metal- binding sites from protein structures deposited in the Protein Data Bank; how- ever, it is no longer available online. Other sites are available that provide some useful information. METAL-MACiE1 provides detailed information on the roles played by metals in catalytic mechanisms of approximately 200 metalloenzymes . BRENDA2 provides data on enzyme metal-binding properties curated from publications . We envision a database that provides users lists of experimentally validated and predicted metalloproteins for a given organism of interest. Such a database is essential for the full development of metalloproteomics. Current data are limited by the bacterial organisms that are commonly stud- toxifi cation of metals that differentiate pathogenic bacteria, human commensal bacteria, or environmental bacteria. As more environmental organisms are de- scribed, particularly those living in environments that are contaminated with metals, we w ill surely identify novel detoxifi cation strategies, but it also seems possible that we will fi nd bacteria using other transition metals functionally. More must also be done to assess the epidemiological risks of environmental metal pollution and how it functions in the maintenance and proliferation of antibiotic resistance. 56 S. A. Loutet et al. Finally, much work needs to be done to understand the concentrations and distributions of metals in the cell. ICP-MS has been used successfully in a number of organisms to establish total cellular content of metals (see Maret et al., this volume). As a next step, the distribution of the metals in different pools needs to be determined more accurately. How much of this metal is in readily exchangeable pools? How much is sequestered in storage systems, such as iron in ferritin or molybdenum in MoSto? How do these concentrations vary over time, stage of growth, and in the presence or absence of various nutrient sources? Are there differences between bacteria growing in suspension versus in a b iofi lm or in the presence or absence of other species of bacteria? In a bio- fi lm, are particular metals sequestered in different regions of the biofi lm? For and cellular pools? The answers to these and similar questions are fundamental to our understanding of the
