Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


lm, are particular metals sequestered in different regions of the biofi lm? For and cellular pools? The answers to these and similar questions are fundamental to our understanding of the use of metal ions by bacteria in the diverse ecosys- tems in which they live. Acknowledgments Our work is supported by operating grants from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research. S.A.L. holds an NSERC postdoctoral fellowship. M.M.V. holds an NSERC Canadian Graduate Scholarship. Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis James A. Imlay Abstract T ransition metals are required for the function of nearly half the enzymatic machinery of organisms. This is particularly challenging for bacteria, which move through envi- ronments in which metal levels can vary by orders of magnitude. Exacerbating the situ- ation is the fact that metals easily compete for enzyme-binding sites, with inappropriate metallation typically inhibiting enzyme function. Thus microbes work hard to acquire, balance, and sort their metal pools. This chapter surveys the common tactics by which bacteria control intracellular iron (Fe), m anganese (Mn), c opper (Cu), and z inc (Zn). The focus is on Escherichia coli, for which enough information is available to attempt an integrated view. High-affi nity import systems are regulated at the level of transcrip- tion by specifi c metal-sensing t ranscription factors; posttranslational controls have not yet been identifi ed. If these importers are insuffi cient, then metal-sparing strategies are engaged for iron and zinc, the two metals that are needed to activate essential enzymes. At the other extreme, m etal overload can result in chemical injuries (Fe, Zn, Cu) and the mismetallation of noncognate enzymes (Fe, Zn, Mn). Export systems are induced to avoid these outcomes. Underlying the entire situation is the question of whether metals are sorted among enzymes by thermodynamic affi nities or whether chaperone systems override binding strengths. At present the author infers that Cu movement may sometimes be chaperone driven, but that the other metals reversibly sample protein binding sites and populate them according to the relative binding strengths of proteins and competing metabolite ligands. This conclusion emphasizes that metal pool sizes must be controlled and balanced. Introduction A microbe can thrive in natural habitats only if it can correctly activate its numerous metalloenzymes. This process is diffi cult if metals are either under- or oversupplied by the environment. A variety of studies have
