Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


habitats only if it can correctly activate its numerous metalloenzymes. This process is diffi cult if metals are either under- or oversupplied by the environment. A variety of studies have indicated that mammalian hosts manipulate local m etal availability to suppress the growth of invading microbes. Yet long ago bacteria evolved strategies to adapt to 58 J. A. Imlay fl uctuations in m etal availability. This review explores how m etal defi ciency or excess can interfere with enzyme activities, as well as the adaptive measures that bacteria adopt to cope with such stresses. These issues lay the groundwork for considering how this ploy by the host may or may not succeed in blocking microbial growth. The Root of the Problem The challenges of metal homeostasis derive from the fact that contemporary life occurs under conditions that are strikingly different from those of the pri- mordial world in which cellular biochemistry evolved (Anbar 2008; Dupont et al. 2010). That world was anoxic. Iron in its ferrous form was readily available, and its facility at both redox and surface chemistry triggered its recruitment into numerous enzymes. The biochemical capabilities that it provided became the foundations upon which metabolic pathways evolved. Those enzymes and pathways persist today. Conversely, the anoxic world was one in which reduced sulfur species were stable and abundant. Consequently, soft metals—notably copper—were trapped in insoluble sulfi de minerals. Early life forms apparently did not use this metal at all. About 2.8 Gya the newly evolved photosystem II began to generate molecular oxygen. Initially, oxygen was scavenged by reduced Fe2+ and sulfur species; it did not begin to accumulate until these were titrated from the seas, a billion years later. By then iron had become much more sparing- ly available and, conversely, copper was released as a soluble bioavailable species. Contemporary organisms have thus inherited a requirement for iron that is not easy to satisfy. They feature a relative handful of Cu enzymes, which have apparently all arisen since the great oxygenation event . Zinc u tilization has also grown . The expansion of Zn en- zymes was once thought to have arisen from its scarcity in primordial sulfi dic environments, but a recent analysis suggests that zinc might always have been bioavailable . Indeed, unlike copper, zinc is widely used by, and is probably essential for, current-day anaerobes. In contemporary environments, metal availability is inconsistent, particu- larly for
