Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


always have been bioavailable . Indeed, unlike copper, zinc is widely used by, and is probably essential for, current-day anaerobes. In contemporary environments, metal availability is inconsistent, particu- larly for organisms that transit between anoxic habitats, which retain the met- al content of the ancient world, and oxic ones. It is thus perhaps fortuitous that studies of metal homeostasis began in E. coli, a facultative organism that makes its way in both worlds and which therefore must employ multiple strate- gies to satisfy its metal requirements. The General Case This review will focus on metal usage by E . coli. Emphasis will be on the ac- quisition and control of iron, manganese, copper, and zinc. Subsequent sections Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 59 outline the ways in which these metals are employed, their routes of import, the hazards of overload, how regulatory proteins track their pool sizes, and the effl ux and chaperone systems that cope with excess. Details vary among microbes; however, they follow a general pattern that can be laid out without getting lost in the details. A general discussion highlights the common chal- lenges that organisms face in ensuring proper metallation of client proteins. The fundamental problem is that although protein surfaces easily discrimi- nate among organic substrates, they have trouble with metals. The divalent transition metals lack shape, have a common charge, and overlap consider- ably in the coordination geometries that they will tolerate. Nevertheless, they are rarely interchangeable in the enzymes that rely upon them—an indication that actionable differences exist. In redox enzymes these differences arise from the distinct reduction potentials of iron, manganese, and copper. In nonredox proteins the metals exhibit biases in their coordination geometries. Further, in accordance with the Irving-Williams series: ligand affi nities, Mn(II) < Fe(II) < Co(II) < Ni(II) < Cu(II) > Zn(II) (Irving and Williams 1948). Such differ- ences cause variations in catalytic effi ciencies when the metals are loaded into enzymes, and they provide the means by which importers, sensors, exporters, and enzymes can (imperfectly) discriminate among them. How Does a Cell Provide the Correct Metal to a Divalent Metal-Binding Protein? This is perhaps the most fundamental problem in metals biology. In principle, two solutions exist. The fi rst is that the protein has a strong kinetic or t hermo- dynamic bias toward the correct metal. The second is that selection occurs at the level of a
