Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


fi rst is that the protein has a strong kinetic or t hermo- dynamic bias toward the correct metal. The second is that selection occurs at the level of a chaperone, which then guides the metal into a client protein. Both solutions occur. Cytoplasmic chaperone systems have been verifi ed for c opper and n ickel (Leitch et al. 2009; Farrugia et al. 2013) but not for the more widely used metals: iron, manganese, and zinc. Might their chaperone systems simply not have been discovered? Perhaps, but this is dubious. A protein-based chaperone typically requires a domain in the recipient protein to serve as its landing site (Schmidt et al. 2000; Padilla-Benavides et al. 2013). These have not been no- ticed in Fe-, Mn-, and Zn-using proteins, and in any case it would have been evolutionarily cumbersome for such domains to have arisen across a broad ex- panse of proteins that draw upon a common metal. (In a typical organism, only a few enzymes use copper and nickel, whereas scores may require iron, zinc, and manganese.) Further, the heterologous expression of Fe, Zn, or Mn en- zymes from distant organisms is usually successful, which indicates that metal delivery persists. One would have expected that drift in protein–protein recog- nition would have degraded chaperone-based metal delivery to heterologous 60 J. A. Imlay proteins. In contrast, heterologous expression of Ni or Cu enzymes is problem- atic . If chaperones are not involved in delivering zinc or iron to their cognate proteins, then one infers that Zn enzymes tend to acquire zinc in preference dynamically preferred outcomes in a given cell. At fi rst this seems surprising, given that zinc tends to outbind iron in most proteins. An example may help. Z ntR is a t ranscription factor that responds to Zn overload. Its K for zinc in water is approximately 10–15 M (Outten and D O’Halloran 2001; Ma et al. 2011). It can quickly be deduced that Zn loading occurs by ligand exchange with other solutes, as opposed to the binding of z inc that is water coordinated (i.e., Zn[H O] ), and this recognition is critical 2 n for thinking about how metals sample binding sites. The maximum second- order rate constant for a reaction in water is ~109 M–1 s–1; this rate constant means that every encounter between two reactants (say, zinc and a binding site) is productive (the zinc
