Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


constant for a reaction in water is ~109 M–1 s–1; this rate constant means that every encounter between two reactants (say, zinc and a binding site) is productive (the zinc binds). If zinc were exclusively present at 10–15 M Zn(H O) , then the binding rate would be the product of the rate constant 2 n and the concentration: 10–6 s–1. The halftime for binding would be, at best, one week. The amount of aqueous zinc is inadequate to metallate this protein in a workable time frame. The resolution is that zinc and presumably all metals move inside cells as exchangeable complexes with metabolites and with the surfaces of biomol- ecules. Thus the amount of zinc that is accessible to ZntR inside an overloaded E. coli cell is far higher than 10–15 M and may approach the total Zn concentra- tion (10–4 to 10–3 M) (Outten and O’Halloran 2001). One might imagine com- plexes of zinc with glutathione or histidine that, for example, deposit the metal through ligand exchange reactions in the ZntR binding site. Accordingly, the common statement that “there is no free zinc” (or copper or other metals) inside a cell should be understood as meaning that there is no fully hydrated metal. There are, however, substantial pools of metals that have not been stably incorporated into proteins, which are loosely bound by metabo- lites. The term “free metal” should really refer to this pool of unincorporated metal, although in frequent usage it has sometimes been confused with fully hydrated metal, which is vanishingly scarce and functionally irrelevant. However, the metal dissociation constants of proteins, which by conven- tion are measured against water, retain their utility. If ZntR is half-loaded with zinc, then the concentration of aqueous zinc is 10–15 M but the concentration of a Zn-loaded metabolite might be 10–6 M. If exchange reactions are quick, then loading times will be short enough such that ZntR can quickly sense a rise in the intracellular Zn pool. Returning to the problem of the thermodynamic distribution of metals, a Zn-dependent protein with a greater affi nity for zinc than that of ZntR (say, K of 10–17 M) would, in principle, be saturated with D zinc at levels lower than those that occupy ZntR. In this way, ZntR would not Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 61 trigger the synthesis of Zn effl ux systems unless Zn-requiring proteins are al-
