Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


those that occupy ZntR. In this way, ZntR would not Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 61 trigger the synthesis of Zn effl ux systems unless Zn-requiring proteins are al- ready activated. Iron binds more poorly to proteins than does z inc, but it also binds more poorly to the cellular metabolites. Imagine an Fe-dependent protein with K D values of 10–15 M for zinc and 10–8 M for i ron, and a Zn-dependent protein with K values of 10–18 M for zinc and 10–7 M for iron. The intracellular con- D centrations of aqueous iron and zinc might be 10–6 M and 10–15 M, respec- tively (matching the K values of the metal regulatory proteins, ZntR and Fur; D see below). If exchange reactions established thermodynamic equilibrium, the Fe-requiring protein would ultimately be 99% Fe bound and the Zn-requiring protein would be 99% Zn bound, even though both proteins inherently bind zinc better than iron. The metal occupancy would be determined by the bal- ance between the relative availabilities and binding constants of the metals for a given protein. This analysis depends on the notion that thermodynamic equilibrium is achieved. For this to occur, binding in vivo must be quick, and it must be re- versible. Can spontaneous metal release into water be suffi ciently fast to meet the second criterion, or must something pry out the metal? Consider the fi rst case. For metal release by Z ntR to water, K = k /k = 10–15 M. Since k D off on on cannot exceed 109 M–1 s–1, then k cannot exceed 10–6 s–1. Again, this implies off that spontaneous dissociation into water occurs with a halftime of one week— far too slow for the ZntR regulatory protein to succeed as a dynamic sensor of metal availability. We infer that for this protein to operate as a Zn sensor, the bound zinc must be transferred directly by ligand exchange to other me- tabolites. That is, metabolites grab zinc and pull it from the protein. A correct formulation of Zn binding by ZntR must be: apo-ZntR + Zn(L )  ZntR:Zn + nL, (5.1) n where L represents unknown nonaqueous ligands with substantial metal affi nity. This analysis indicates several things. First, for proper metallation, the pools of metals in the cell must be calibrated relative to one another so that each metal competes favorably for cognate proteins but
