Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


several things. First, for proper metallation, the pools of metals in the cell must be calibrated relative to one another so that each metal competes favorably for cognate proteins but unfavorably for non- cognate proteins. It must be the goal of regulatory proteins to set the pools in this way. Second, cellular metabolites must be available to coordinate metals and facilitate both metal binding to and dissociation from proteins. Third, the absolute concentrations of the metal pools inside cells must be high enough so that metalloprotein loading occurs in seconds, not hours. In most cases we do not yet know the correct values for the intracellu- lar metal levels and for the binding constants of metalloproteins. Presumably, they are indicated by the affi nities of the regulatory proteins that tip the cell behavior toward further import or effl ux. It is notable that the metal-binding sites of metalloregulators have evolved steric constraints which strongly favor cognate metals. CueR binds copper with high avidity; it does not bind zinc as 62 J. A. Imlay well . These preferences are primarily dictated by the geometries of the coordinating residues, and sometimes they are enhanced by allosteric effects which can be imparted by the cognate metals but not by mis- matched metals (for an excellent review, see Ma et al. 2009). However, metal- loenzymes have less fl exibility to evolve these discriminatory features: their structures are constrained by the exigencies of substrate binding and catalysis. Hence, mismetallation is more likely. Finally, it is important to note that a subset of metalloproteins almost cer- tainly does not achieve binding equilibrium. Superoxide dismutases and pro- teins with structural Zn atoms, for example, bury their bound metals within the protein so that they are inaccessible to chelators. In vitro these metals are released only if the protein is partially denatured. It is unclear whether dis- crimination against noncognate metals occurs at the level of the association rate or whether noncognate metals fail to trigger protein folding and thus are vulnerable to extraction. Iron Chemical Properties and Enzymatic Roles Local ligands can tune the electron affi nity of iron to a range of physiologi- cal potentials, making it a fi tting partner in redox reactions. Iron also exhibits little activation energy when it switches between four-, fi ve-, or six-coordinate geometries, a property which, together with its excellence as a Lewis acid, enables it to serve as
