Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


exhibits little activation energy when it switches between four-, fi ve-, or six-coordinate geometries, a property which, together with its excellence as a Lewis acid, enables it to serve as a surface catalyst. In the most studied bacterium, E. coli, iron is by far the most-used transition metal. It serves in the form of heme as a conduit for electrons in cytochrome oxidases, succinate dehydrogenase, sulfi te and nitrite reductases, and catalase. Iron-sulfur clusters in [4Fe-4S], [3Fe-4S], and [2Fe-2S] forms are redox-active cofactors in respiratory dehydrogenases (e.g., NADH dehydrogenase I), radical-generating enzymes (pyruvate:formate lyase-activating enzyme), and oxidant-sensing proteins (Fnr). Iron-sulfur clus- ters can also perform nonredox surface chemistry, binding and activating sub- strates for dehydration (aconitase); they also can apparently provide protein structure to many enzymes that operate upon nucleic acids (endonuclease III). Finally, lone Fe atoms provide redox-active mononuclear (superoxide dis- mutase) and binuclear (ribonucleotide reductase) centers, and in their ferrous form they provide substrate binding or activation sites in a wide variety of nonredox enzymes (erythrose-4-phosphate 3-epimerase). These enzymes are found throughout metabolism: in e nergy production, amino acid and cofactor biosynthesis, nitrogen and sulfur assimilation, and DNA metabolism. Most bacteria cannot grow when they cannot acquire ad- equate iron. Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 63 Avoiding Iron Defi ciency It i s an obvious problem that iron is hard to fi nd in contemporary habitats. When iron is abundant, it is typically imported through ferrous Fe importers, such as Feo (Figure 5.1). When iron is scarce several ad hoc solutions come into play. In E. coli these tactics are initiated by the deacti- vation of Fur, an Fe-dependent transcription factor that in its Fe-activated form represses Fe-s tarvation responses . F ur binds a single ferrous Fe atom in a regulatory site with moderate affi nity (K = 1 M; Mills and Marletta D 2005; Ma et al. 2012), plus a Zn atom in a structural site with high affi nity. A dimer of Fe-bound Fur [(Fur:Zn,Fe) ] binds DNA binds DNA and occludes the RNA polymerase binding site of genes that are useful when iron is scarce, thus shutting them off. Fur:Fe displaces protein H-NS from upstream of the gene, encoding ferritin. Since H-NS would otherwise block ftn transcription, Figure 5.1 Iron homeostatic mechanisms in E . coli K12. Ferrous iron is imported through Feo, citrate-chelated iron through Fec, and siderophore-bound iron through the enterochelin
