Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


otherwise block ftn transcription, Figure 5.1 Iron homeostatic mechanisms in E . coli K12. Ferrous iron is imported through Feo, citrate-chelated iron through Fec, and siderophore-bound iron through the enterochelin system. The latter two systems depend on T onB to power entry through outer-membrane receptors. Siderophores are then hydrolyzed to release the iron. E. coli also expresses receptors (not shown) for s iderophores excreted by other organisms. (Additional iron importers, including ones for heme, are found in pathogenic E. coli strains.) When iron is suffi cient, moderate excess is stored in ferritin, bacterioferritin, or (during o xidative stress) D ps. Two iron export systems, IceT and FieF, have been proposed. Fur is the iron-activated repressor that controls expression of Fe importers, ferritin, the Mn importer MntH, and the sRNA RyhB. During Fe limitation, Mn may substitute for iron in mononuclear enzymes, and RyhB blocks the synthesis of expend- able Fe proteins. 64 J. A. Imlay Fur:Fe has the effect of positively inducing it . Thus, dur- ing periods of Fe repletion, the cell stores excess iron, to be drawn upon when Fe levels subsequently decline. When intracellular iron becomes scarce, F ur is demetallated and thereby deactivated, allowing the engagement of adaptive responses. These responses include the induction of a variety of Fe import systems. Most famously, bac- teria excrete s iderophores (i.e., small molecules that solubilize ferric iron and deliver it to cells). The binding affi nity of siderophores for Fe(III) is so great that after the import of the siderophore-iron chelate, the release of the ferric iron is an energetic problem. Release by ligand exchange to a moderate-affi nity metabolite is energetically challenging, even if the latter is abundant. Release to a higher-affi nity metabolite, such as citrate, would simply defer the problem. The native siderophore in E . coli lab strains is degraded by esterases (Brickman and McIntosh 1992). Lower-affi nity siderophores apparently release the iron after its reduction by low-potential electron donors, a strategy that succeeds because the affi nity of siderophores for ferrous iron is substantially lower than for the ferric form (Miethke et al. 2011; Wang et al. 2011b). Pathogenic E. coli strains can also acquire their iron from heme, an impor- tant Fe source in their host environment (Torres and Payne 1997; Hagan and Mobley 2009). Lab strains, which were isolated from intestinal fl ora, cannot do this. Variation among the suite of
