Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


source in their host environment (Torres and Payne 1997; Hagan and Mobley 2009). Lab strains, which were isolated from intestinal fl ora, cannot do this. Variation among the suite of Fe importers is commonly observed in otherwise similar bacteria, as lateral gene transfer is a device that suits bacteria to distinct habitats. When siderophores are inadequate at acquiring suffi cient iron, the cell ad- justs further. E. coli does so in two ways. The derepression of the RyhB sRNA enables it to block the translation of messages that encode Fe enzymes that are abundant but conditionally dispensable . Repression of NADH dehydrogenase I, for example, spares the cell all the Fe atoms that would otherwise go into its nine iron-sulfur clusters, while NADH dehydro- genase II (an Fe-free enzyme) carries out the job of NADH reoxidation. The cell loses the proton motive force that NdhI contributes, but essential Fe en- zymes (such as the cluster enzymes involved in isoprenoid synthesis; Loiseau et al. 2007) can still be activated. Similarly, succinate dehydrogenase (ten Fe atoms) is not made, prohibiting growth on T CA-cycle substrates like acetate, but growth on fermentable carbon sources remains possible. It is striking that glycolysis, the sole high-titer pathway that is not dispensable under any rea- sonable condition, contains no metal-dependent proteins. Interestingly, some other bacteria prioritize the use of limited iron us- ing control systems that are analogous, but not homologous, to RyhB. In Corynebacteria, for example, the protein RipA plays the role of RyhB sRNA: RipA is a repressor of Fe proteins and is itself repressed by DtxR when iron is suffi cient . This example underscores the general observation that metal control strategies are broadly distributed even though the specifi c mechanisms that execute those strategies may vary. Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 65 In E. coli the other key adjustment to Fe r estriction is a shift toward the use of manganese rather than iron in key metalloproteins. MntH, the sole Mn importer, is repressed by Fur:Fe; when iron becomes scarce, the induction of MntH brings manganese into the cell . Manganese prob- ably populates the nonredox mononuclear enzymes that would otherwise rely upon iron. These enzymes require a metal to neutralize the charge of an oxy- (Sobota and Imlay 2011; Anjem and Imlay 2012). Manganese cannot directly substitute for iron in the redox enzymes s uperoxide dismutase and r ibonucleo- tide
