Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


the charge of an oxy- (Sobota and Imlay 2011; Anjem and Imlay 2012). Manganese cannot directly substitute for iron in the redox enzymes s uperoxide dismutase and r ibonucleo- tide reductase, because the polypeptides of those Fe enzymes are confi gured to poise iron, not manganese, at the proper reduction potential for catalysis. Instead the cell synthesizes Mn-activatible isozymes: the Mn-specifi c superox- ide dismutase and ribonucleotide reductase. Their structural genes (sodB and nrdEF) are repressed by Fur:Fe and thus are induced only when iron is scarce (Compan and Touati 1993; Martin and Imlay 2011). One other adjustment to Fe depletion may also exist. E. coli contains two aconitases, each of which uses [4Fe-4S] clusters to catalyze their dehydration/ rehydration reactions. Strikingly, and unlike clusters in other proteins, the clus- ter of aconitase B exists in equilibrium with the cellular pool of iron: when iron pools drop, the equilibrium shifts away from cluster stability, apoprotein accu- mulates and enzyme activity declines . Activity does not fall to zero, but citrate levels automatically rise to a higher steady-state to push through the remaining enzyme. Some of the accumulated c itrate is excreted. It seems plausible (though not proven) that the excreted citrate traps any avail- able extracellular iron, thereby serving as a short-term emergency siderophore that reenters through the ferric citrate import system . The connection between aconitase stability and Fe metabolism has also been seen in other organisms. In Bacillus, M ycobacterium tuberculosis, and mammals, apo-aconitase similarly accumulates upon Fe limitation and serves as an RNA- binding protein (Banerjee et al. 2007; Volz 2008; Pechter et al. 2013). The cleft vacated by the erstwhile [4Fe-4S] cluster binds conserved elements in mRNAs, stabilizing messages that encode Fe-import proteins and destabiliz- ing those of Fe-storage proteins. There has been some hint that apo-aconitase might do the same in E. coli (Tang and Guest 1999). Some lactic acid bacteria, which typically inhabit Fe-poor environments, have made the fateful commitment to eschew iron dependence (Archibald 1983; Posey and Gherardini 2000). They lack Fe-S and heme proteins, and thus they also lack the respiratory chain and T CA cycle that depend upon them. This compromise permits an independence from iron at the expense of less- effi cient e nergy production. Interestingly, these bacteria commonly contain millimolar levels of manganese, suggesting that their mononuclear enzymes are likely populated by manganese in place of iron. These organisms
