Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


effi cient e nergy production. Interestingly, these bacteria commonly contain millimolar levels of manganese, suggesting that their mononuclear enzymes are likely populated by manganese in place of iron. These organisms employ Mn-dependent ribonucleotide reductase and superoxide dismutase. In es- sence, the Fe-defi ciency adaptations that E. coli makes are only conditionally 66 J. A. Imlay constitutive in these other bacteria. As a fi nal twist, these bacteria often employ pyruvate oxidases that release copious hydrogen peroxide into their environ- ment . Peroxide is a poison for the Fe enzymes of their competitors (Jang and Imlay 2007; Anjem and Imlay 2012), thereby providing an advantage for the lactic acid bacteria. The take-home message is this: the central metabolic and biosynthetic path- ways that are shared by all organisms evolved in an Fe-laden environment; contemporary organisms have thus inherited a dependence on a metal that is not reliably present. This situation has forced the evolution of ad hoc mecha- nisms for adaptation to Fe limitation. E. coli, an organism that routinely tran- sits from an Fe-rich (anoxic) environment to a frequently Fe-poor oxic one, manifests these. Control of Iron Levels: Other Aspects It is striking that manganese can bind in the regulatory metal-binding site of F ur (Mills and Marletta 2005; Ma et al. 2012). Fur:Mn can repress several mem- bers of the Fur regulon, although apparently not all of them. For example, Fur represses synthesis of the MntH Mn importer when either manganese or iron is abundant inside the cell (Kehres et al. 2002a; Ikeda et al. 2005). However, the mangano-superoxide dismutase is only repressed when iron is abundant; when iron is scarce (so that FeSOD cannot be activated) but manganese is abundant, MnSOD synthesis is robust . These outcomes make physi- ological sense, but the physical mechanics of the protein that enable this selec- tive effect are unknown. IscR is an E. coli regulatory protein that controls the synthesis of the Fe-S cluster assembly machinery. It has a cluster binding site, and when [2Fe-2S] is loaded there, IscR substantially represses expression of the Isc assembly system . When cluster demand outstrips assembly, IscR shifts to its apoprotein form, enabling full synthesis of the Isc proteins. Interestingly, apo-IscR additionally acts as a positive t ranscription factor that induces expres- sion of a secondary cluster assembly machine encoded by the suf operon (Yeo et al. 2006). The regulatory pattern makes sense, in
