Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


a positive t ranscription factor that induces expres- sion of a secondary cluster assembly machine encoded by the suf operon (Yeo et al. 2006). The regulatory pattern makes sense, in that the Suf machinery requires iron levels that are lower than what is needed by the Isc machinery . The reason that Suf is less fastidious is not known. Recent studies have revealed that IscR also controls genes that have no ob- vious association with cluster assembly. These include NrdEF, a Mn-dependent ribonucleotide reductase (Cotruvo and Stubbe 2011; Martin and Imlay 2011). One possibility is that because IscR senses formation of a metal cluster, which can be built with iron but not manganese, it is a more precise sensor of Fe levels than is Fur, which responds to either iron or manganese. It remains to be seen whether this notion is correct. F ur is widely distributed, but it is not the universal sensor of iron. For ex- ample, the Gram-positive bacterium B radyrhizobium japonicum employs the Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 67 heme-sensing protein Irr as its primary transcriptional activator of Fe-import proteins. When adequate heme accumulates, Irr binds the heme and is convert- ed it to a form that is rapidly degraded by cell proteases, thereby shutting down the synthesis of import systems . In an apparent analogy to IscR, this system results in specifi city for iron. Interestingly, manganese has a secondary controlling effect: when Mn levels are high, manganese binds to Irr and stabilizes it . The effect is to maintain an Fe:Mn balance inside the cell. The consequence of an imbalance has not been determined. Avoiding Too Much Intracellular Iron Too much iron is not a good thing. As will be demonstrated, excessive in- tracellular amounts of most metals are problematic because the excess metal outcompetes other metals for their appropriate binding sites. Iron does this in the limited case of Mn-specifi c redox enzymes (Whittaker 2003; Martin and Imlay 2011). However, the most recognized effect of excess iron is to drive the formation of hydroxyl radicals through the Fenton reaction: Fe2+ + H O  [FeO2+]  Fe3+ + HO. (5.2) 2 2 Hydroxyl radicals react at nearly diffusion-limited rates with most biomol- ecules. The most consequential target is DNA (Imlay and Linn 1988). Since h ydrogen peroxide is an unavoidable product of fl avoenzyme autoxidation in oxic habitats , aerobic microbes are
