Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


ecules. The most consequential target is DNA (Imlay and Linn 1988). Since h ydrogen peroxide is an unavoidable product of fl avoenzyme autoxidation in oxic habitats , aerobic microbes are at pains to limit hydroxyl- radical formation by controlling the amounts of both reactants: loose ferrous Fe and H O . Deletions of fur that derepress Fe-importer synthesis in Fe-rich 2 2 habitats lead to high rates of DNA damage . These can be suppressed by the engineered synthesis of ferritins, which lower the amount of free iron. A complication to oxidative stress is that H O and superoxide both leach 2 2 iron from dehydratase Fe-S clusters and mononuclear enzymes, increasing the pool of loose iron (Liochev and Fridovich 1994; Keyer et al. 1995; Anjem and Imlay 2012). Further, they knock iron free from Fur, with the potential effect of inducing Fe importers at the very time when more iron is a bad idea (Varghese et al. 2007). Cells respond in two ways. First, the O xyR transcription factor senses excess H O and induces higher rates of Fur synthesis, partially com- 2 2 pensating for its lower metal occupancy . Second, OxyR induces the expression of Dps , a ferritin-like protein that sequesters iron . The effect is to down the level of free iron. Mutants that lack dps suffer overwhelming damage during periods of H O 2 2 exposure . It is interesting to note that when Fe-starved strains were abruptly supple- mented with iron, the intracellular Fe levels rose only modestly: from ~ 20 M unincorporated iron to ~ 70 M (Keyer and Imlay, unpublished data). Since the period of Fe starvation strongly induced import systems, what kept Fe levels 68 J. A. Imlay from sky-rocketing? One possibility is that infl ux was countervailed by an Fe effl ux system. FieF (YiiP) has been proposed to act as a Zn or Fe effl ux system (Grass et al. 2005b; Lu et al. 2009). In addition, Frawley et al. (2013) recently reported that MdtD (also known as IceT) acts as an Fe-c itrate exporter, al- though the conditions of its expression are not yet clear. An intriguing alter- native is that metal importers may be product inhibited. Control on the level of turnover has not yet been reported for most transition metal importers, but the bacterial MgtE m agnesium importer is inhibited when cytoplasmic magne- sium binds
