Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Control on the level of turnover has not yet been reported for most transition metal importers, but the bacterial MgtE m agnesium importer is inhibited when cytoplasmic magne- sium binds and induces a conformational shift that closes the pore (Hattori et al. 2009). To date the Zn or Fe effl ux pump YiiP provides a rare example of a metal transporter whose turnover is clearly controlled by the allosteric action of its substrate metal . The fact that we do not know whether metals stimulate or inhibit most transporters comprises an important gap in our understanding of metal homeostatic mechanisms. Manganese Chemical Properties and Enzymatic Roles M anganese is a transition element adjacent to iron in the periodic table. Like iron, it tolerates four-, fi ve-, or six-coordinate geometries and can transition between Mn(II) and Mn(III) redox states at physiological potentials. These similar characteristics enable manganese to play many of the same roles as iron and, in fact the metabolism of these metals is intertwined (Figure 5.2). E. coli expresses only a single Mn importer, MntH, a pump which is pow- ered by the membrane potential (Kehres et al. 2000; Makui et al. 2000). Its close relative, S almonella typhimurium, has an additional ATP-driven system: SitABC, also known in other bacteria as MntABC . Both the sit and mntH operons are repressed by an Fe-loaded Fur protein, with little expression under routine growth conditions (Kehres et al. 2002a; Ikeda et al. 2005). Indeed, the Mn content of E. coli is very low in nonstressed cells; for example, the Mn-dependent superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is largely inac- tive . Under these conditions the deletion of mntH does not cause any slowing of growth, even though intracellular Mn concentrations become miniscule. These observations suggest that manganese is specifi cally imported and employed in circumstances in which iron is unavailable. In fact, the deletion of mntH does block the growth of E. coli during Fe r estriction . Regulatory studies revealed that mntH (of both E. coli and Salmonella) is also strongly induced during periods of hydrogen peroxide stress, as its tran- scription is positively controlled by the H O -sensing OxyR transcription fac- 2 2 tor . The mntH mutants cannot tolerate extended H O 2 2 exposure . Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 69 Figure 5.2 Manganese homeostatic mechanisms in E . coli. Manganese is apparently used only during periods of
