Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


H O 2 2 exposure . Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 69 Figure 5.2 Manganese homeostatic mechanisms in E . coli. Manganese is apparently used only during periods of Fe defi ciency or H O stress. Upon deactivation of the Fur 2 2 repressor or activation of the OxyR transcription factor, the MntH importer is synthe- sized and brings Mn into the cytoplasm. SitABC (MntABC) is found in many other bacteria, including the close relative Salmonella, but not in E. coli (hence the asterisk). Manganese levels are held in check at the transcriptional level by repression of mntH by both Mn-charged M ntR and Mn-charged Fur. Excess Mn is exported by MntP; when Mn levels fall, MntP synthesis stops, and extant MntP may be inhibited by MntS. Two Mn-specifi c redox isozymes, Mn superoxide dismutase and Mn ribonucleotide reduc- tase, are induced only during Fe restriction. Analysis of the enzymes that can use manganese makes sense of these data. E. coli contains a number of enzymes in which iron serves as a nonredox co- factor. The cohort of such enzymes has not been adequately identifi ed, because reducing conditions are needed to activate the enzymes with ferrous iron in vitro; for this reason some of these enzymes have been mistakenly annotated as using manganese, zinc, or cobalt. These enzymes (e.g., ribulose-phosphate epimerase, p eptide deformylase, cytosine deaminase, LpxC) catalyze a variety of reaction types that have in common the formation of an oxyanion intermedi- ate that is stabilized by electrostatic interaction with the divalent ferrous atom (Anjem and Imlay 2012). Lesser activity is exhibited when the enzymes are charged with zinc, which may be reluctant to assume the octahedral geometry of the enzyme:substrate complex, and essentially no activity is provided by m agnesium. In contrast, manganese confers turnover numbers that approach those of the Fe-loaded enzymes. Thus the control of MntH synthesis by Fur makes sense if the imported Mn substitutes in these enzymes during Fe scarcity. 70 J. A. Imlay This hypothesis is supported by the fact that the structural genes for MnSOD as well as for the Mn-dependent r ibonucleotide reductase, NrdEF, are similarly repressed by Fur:Fe (Compan and Touati 1993; Martin and Imlay 2011). These enzymes are induced only when iron is available; that is, when the usual Fe- dependent isozymes (FeSOD and NrdAB) cannot be activated. These are redox enzymes, and direct Mn substitution into
