Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


are induced only when iron is available; that is, when the usual Fe- dependent isozymes (FeSOD and NrdAB) cannot be activated. These are redox enzymes, and direct Mn substitution into the Fe-dependent enzymes cannot work, because the redox potential of manganese in those polypeptide environ- ments is inappropriate for the reaction. Instead, the Mn isozymes are confi g- ured to poise manganese at the essential potentials. Thus the overall view is that Mn acquisition is a strategy to maintain the function of mononuclear and binuclear Fe enzymes when iron is unavailable. The induction of MntH during H O stress is essential for continued growth; 2 2 without it, the mononuclear nonredox enzymes are quickly inactivated by the oxidation of the ferrous cofactor by H O (Sobota and Imlay 2011; Anjem and 2 2 Imlay 2012). In contrast, manganese does not react easily with H O , and so 2 2 the Mn-loaded enzymes retain activity when exposed to H O in vitro. It has 2 2 been inferred that this is the mechanism by which Mn import sustains the ac- tivities of these enzymes inside H O -stressed cells. However, direct evidence 2 2 is lacking, because manganese binds weakly to active sites and dissociates during the process of enzyme recovery from cells. It is notable that lactic acid bacteria, which generate large amounts of H O via pyruvate oxidase, may 2 2 be immune to this oxidant because they characteristically maintain millimolar intracellular pools of manganese (Archibald and Fridovich 1981; Daly et al. 2004). It appears that these bacteria have fully committed to the defensive strategy that enteric bacteria resort to only under stressful conditions. This leads to an obvious question: If iron is often scarce and confers a vulnerability to oxidants, why don’t the enterics routinely use manganese? One answer is that Mn-cofactored enzymes are not quite as effi cient as Fe- cofactored ones (Anjem and Imlay 2012). Pursuant to the Irving-Williams se- ries, manganese binds ligands more poorly than does iron; thus manganese binds enzymes less effi ciently than iron, and in mononuclear enzymes it may also grip the substrate less effectively. A second point is that enteric bacteria would still require iron to populate h eme and Fe-S clusters. Manganese cannot substitute. Since enterics must establish intracellular Fe pools in any case, the diversion of some iron to mononuclear enzymes is simple. Finally, enterics are facultative
