Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and Fe-S clusters. Manganese cannot substitute. Since enterics must establish intracellular Fe pools in any case, the diversion of some iron to mononuclear enzymes is simple. Finally, enterics are facultative organisms which spend much of their lives in anoxic habitats. Iron tends to be reduced and available in that context. Thus the problems of oxida- tive stress and Fe scarcity might be relatively rare. The last point raises the question of whether manganese might be more routinely used by bacteria that dwell in oxic habitats. This is probably the case. B. japonicum is an obligate aerobe which, in contrast to E. coli, grows very poorly without Mn import; defects arise from the low activities of MnSOD (its sole superoxide dismutase) and its Mn-dependent pyruvate kinase (Hohle and O’Brian 2012). This bacterium has committed to manganese as a cofactor. Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 71 Whether the selective pressure for this evolutionary decision arose from the frequency of metal availability or oxidative stress is unclear. Avoiding Too Much Manganese Returning to E . coli, one can ask whether the cell sets upper limits on the amount of manganese that enters the cell. E. coli, like many bacteria (Rosch et al. 2009; Sun et al. 2010), has a LysE-family Mn effl ux pump (MntP in E. coli) that pumps manganese out of the cytoplasm when levels rise too high (Waters et al. 2011). Indeed, mntP mutants are poisoned when a surfeit of manganese is provided in growth medium. Specifi cally, excess manganese poisons h eme synthesis, apparently by blocking the insertion of iron into the porphyrin ring (Martin, Waters, and Imlay, unpublished data). It is typical that bacteria encode both importers and exporters of the same metal. Not surprisingly, the syntheses of both are controlled by the cellular content of the metal. In the case of manganese, this situation is unexpectedly complicated: Mn levels are sensed both by MntR, a Mn-specifi c member of the DtxR family (Patzer and Hantke 2001; Galsfeld et al. 2003), and by Fur itself, which can form a Fur:Mn complex . MntR:Mn represses mntH and activates mntP: when intracellular Mn levels are high, the cell shuts down the synthesis of an importer and activates the synthesis of the exporter. When iron is scarce, repression of mntH by MntR:Mn is less effective. Upon M ntH induction, the intracellular Mn levels rise quite high: ca. 100 μM, compared
