Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of the exporter. When iron is scarce, repression of mntH by MntR:Mn is less effective. Upon M ntH induction, the intracellular Mn levels rise quite high: ca. 100 μM, compared to ~ 10 μM under routine conditions . Thereafter Fur:Mn complexes form and repress the expression of mntH (Kehres et al. 2002a; Ikeda et al. 2005). This system might establish two different Mn set points: a low one when iron is available and a higher one when iron is scarce (or H O 2 2 is present). A shift to high manganese in the latter situation makes sense if manganese must occupy mononuclear sites for which it has only moderate af- fi nity. As an added wrinkle, when intracellular Mn levels are low, the synthesis of MntS (a sRNA that encodes a 42-amino-acid protein) is induced (Waters et al. 2011). MntS helps manganese fi nd its way into Mn-using proteins, perhaps by inhibiting the activity of any extant MntP (Martin, Waters, Storz, and Imlay, submitted). When Mn levels rise, MntR:Mn inhibits mntS transcription; the effect may be to enable MntP to export the excess. The ability of Fur to bind manganese in its Fe regulatory site has long been recognized . Fur:Mn is an effective repressor of many, but perhaps not all, genes in the Fur regulon. When manganese grossly overloads mntP mutants, Fur:Mn inhibits the synthesis of Fe importers, and heme synthe- sis stalls because the Fe levels become too low to sustain it. In this context we can recognize why manganese is involved in control- ling the Fe levels of B . japonicum. Irr is an inducer of Fe-import systems, but it is quickly degraded if it complexes with heme, an apparent indicator of Fe 72 J. A. Imlay suffi ciency. Manganese can diminish the affi nity of Irr for heme; this has the effect of stimulating greater Fe import if manganese is inside the cell (Puri et al. 2010). Since iron and manganese can problematically compete for some of the same proteins—including f errochelatase, which synthesizes heme (Martin, Waters, Storz, and Imlay, submitted)—it seems possible that Irr is confi gured to avoid these confl icts by keeping the two metals in balance with one another. This scenario underscores that the optimal intracellular level of one metal is contingent on the levels of competing metals. In summary, the regulation of Mn import by Fur, OxyR, and MntR in
