Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


underscores that the optimal intracellular level of one metal is contingent on the levels of competing metals. In summary, the regulation of Mn import by Fur, OxyR, and MntR in E . coli is confi gured so that Mn levels rise only when iron is scarce or H O threat- 2 2 ens Fe-cofactored enzymes. The MntP effl ux pump serves to remove manga- nese when its levels rise too high. Both the benefi t and threat of intracellular manganese arises from its ability to occupy protein sites that normally acquire iron. In aerobes the evolutionary shift toward the use of manganese may have proceeded further. A key question is whether the Mn-using enzymes in these aerobes have refi ned their sites so that they are more effective with manganese than with iron. Copper Chemical Properties and Enzymatic Roles Copper has an unusual story. Because c opper is a soft metal that binds tightly to sulfur ligands, in primordial environments it was trapped in sulfi de pre- cipitates (Anbar 2008; Ridge et al. 2008). Its unavailability meant that it was not employed as a cofactor in ancient microorganisms, and in contemporary organisms, it is used as a cofactor only in enzymes that have arisen since the accumulation of molecular oxygen, perhaps 2 Gyr ago. Further, copper is not used in cytoplasmic enzymes—which, after all, in- habit a cellular compartment that resembles ancient Earth, with high concen- trations of sulfur compounds that adhere tightly to cuprous copper. Instead, copper activates a relative handful of periplasmic and membrane enzymes that leverage its redox activity to p erform electron-transfer and oxidation reactions. These include monoamine oxidases, s uperoxide dismutatases, cytochrome ox- idases, and plastocyanins . Thus bacteria strive to keep copper out of the cytoplasm and to maintain adequate levels in the periplasm (Figure 5.3). High levels of copper are toxic to bacteria, a trait that has recently been exploited in the manufacture of anti- bacteria to copper depends enormously on whether Cu-binding compounds are present in the environment: while 5 μM copper can poison bacteria in minimal media, 5 mM may be necessary in LB medium (Macomber and Imlay 2009). Presumably the former is a better mimic of natural habitats. Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 73 Figure 5.3 Copper homeostatic mechanisms in E . coli. The few (ca. 5) Cu-dependent enzymes of E. coli all receive their copper from the periplasm;
