Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 73 Figure 5.3 Copper homeostatic mechanisms in E . coli. The few (ca. 5) Cu-dependent enzymes of E. coli all receive their copper from the periplasm; there are no cytoplasmic copper enzymes. Copper can slip into the cytoplasm through unknown mechanisms. When it does, the CueR transcription factor detects elevated levels of cytoplasmic Cu and induces the synthesis of the CopA export system and the CueO periplasmic copper(I) oxidase. The latter may diminish Cu infl ux by eradicating the monocation. Al- though E. coli Cu enzymes apparently acquire Cu passively in the periplasm, excessive- ly high periplasmic copper is sensed by the CusSR two-component system, which trig- gers synthesis of the Cus exporter. In some bacteria, periplasmic Cu-binding proteins (here, CueP) traffi c Cu from the cytoplasmic Cu exporters to periplasmic Cu proteins. The Problem with Copper in the Cytoplasm Toxic doses of copper block particular functions in E. coli. Copper exposure impedes the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids and the catabolism of TCA-cycle substrates because Cu(I) attacks the solvent-exposed Fe-S clusters of the dehydratases that lie in these pathways (Macomber and Imlay 2009). Copper apparently coordinates the bridging S ligands, thereby displacing iron and ultimately causing full cluster degradation. Workers have also postulated that the redox activity of copper might enable it to participate in Fenton-like reactions that generate toxic hydroxyl radicals, which can damage DNA. This chemistry occurs in vitro . However, Cu-overloaded E. coli did not exhibit higher than normal levels of D NA damage, even when exogenous H O was supplied . The likely explanation 2 2 74 J. A. Imlay is that cytoplasmic copper predominantly associates with protein and lipid sur- faces, away from the DNA, so that its genotoxic effects were small relative to that of the Fe pool. Copper can also catalyze the oxidation of protein thiols, although to date this effect has not been demonstrated in live cells. For most bacteria it is unclear how copper ever enters the cytoplasm. It seems plausible that Cu(II) might sneak in through metal transporters that intend to import different divalent metals, and that Cu(I) might ride in through monovalent (e.g., potassium) systems. In any case, bacteria universally main- tain ATP-driven effl ux pumps that effl ux copper from cytoplasm to periplasm. These proteins are strongly induced during Cu exposure, and null mutants are noticeably copper sensitive. C opper toxicity and r
