Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


ux pumps that effl ux copper from cytoplasm to periplasm. These proteins are strongly induced during Cu exposure, and null mutants are noticeably copper sensitive. C opper toxicity and r esistance has been exam- ined in a number of organisms, with E. coli and Enterococcus hirae among those which might be regarded as paradigmatic. Synthesis of the E. coli ex- porter, CopA , is induced when copper metallates CueR, a MerR-family transcription factor that in CueR:Cu form activates copA tran- scription directly . In some organisms (though not E. coli), CopA is apparently fed copper by small cytoplasmic Cu-binding proteins, which are thus regarded as chaperones (Gonzalez-Guerrero and Arguello 2008). Presumably they sweep copper off the surfaces of the myriad metabo- lites, proteins, and membranes to which it otherwise sticks. CueR:Cu also activates expression of cueO, a gene that encodes a periplasmic enzyme that oxidizes Cu(I) to Cu(II) with tetravalent reduction of molecular oxygen to water (Grass and Rensing 2001; Singh et al. 2004). CueO contributes substan- tially to Cu resistance. Most workers suspect that Cu(I) penetrates the cyto- plasmic membrane more easily than Cu(II) does, so that this action of CueO lessens Cu infl ux. Unfortunately, the ability of copper to adhere to cell-surface molecules is so great that this superfi cial copper dwarfs cytoplasmic copper, even in cueO copA mutants, thereby precluding accurate measurements of the levels of cytoplasmic copper. The measured K of CueR for copper is 10–21 M . D Its selectivity for Cu(I) arises from linear coordination by cysteine residues, a geometry that is incompatible with the principle divalent metals. This high affi nity allows CueR to outcompete adventitious Cu ligands. Using the same argument presented earlier, we can conclude that there is no fully hydrated Cu in the cell; copper transits from one surface to another through ligand- exchange processes. Within the cytoplasm the most plausible solubilizers are thiols (cysteine, glutathione) and amines (histidine, polyamine). Presumably these or other Cu-binding molecules have enough affi nity to extract copper from CueR, thereby deactivating it, when cytoplasmic Cu levels subside. The alternatives are that CueR:Cu is deactivated by Cu transfer to an unknown dedicated protein chaperone, which might in turn transfer it to CopA, or that CueR is degraded. Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 75 Copper in the Periplasm: Suffi ciency and Excess E. coli and many other bacteria manifest a second pump, CusCFBA, that
