Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


CueR is degraded. Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 75 Copper in the Periplasm: Suffi ciency and Excess E. coli and many other bacteria manifest a second pump, CusCFBA, that ex- pels copper from both the cytoplasm and the periplasm into the external envi- ronment . A small Cu-binding protein, CusF, binds excess periplasmic copper and feeds it into the CusCBA transmembrane export com- plex . Expression of these genes is activated by the two- component CusSR system; the sensor protein is localized in the cytoplasmic membrane and probably directly senses periplasmic Cu levels (Munson et al. 2000). Activation of CusSR requires higher levels of environmental copper than does CueR. Presumably the differences between these two responses pro- vide a window of Cu concentration that enables effective activation of peri- plasmic enzymes without collateral overloading of the cytoplasm. It is also plausible that high levels of copper directly damage proteins or membranes exposed within the periplasm. One of the most interesting, unresolved stories involves how copper fi nds its way to client proteins in the periplasm. Passive metallation is a possibil- ity: superoxide dismutase apoprotein can be activated by simple incubation with copper . Indeed, if S almonella is grown with scant copper, superoxide dismutase is synthesized and maintained in an inac- tive apoprotein form until copper is provided, at which point the enzyme im- mediately gains activity. It is striking that Cu enzymes, unlike Fe enzymes, are not regulated at the transcriptional level in response to the availability of their cognate metal. However, in several bacteria it appears that CopA-type cytoplasmic effl ux systems and periplasmic chaperones are important for effi cient activation of both periplasmic superoxide dismutase and cytochrome c oxidase (Swem et al. 2005; Gonzalez-Guerrero et al. 2010; Osman et al. 2013). This implies that copper takes a circuitous route: from the extracellular environment to the periplasm, into the cytoplasm, and then through ATP-driven effl ux pumps to periplasmic Cu-binding proteins, which ultimately insert the copper into their client apoproteins. If true, entry of copper into the cytoplasm is requisite for the activation of Cu enzymes. Still, no infl ux protein has been identifi ed in most of these bacteria. E . hirae is an exception (Solioz and Stoyanov 2003). Why would cells require Cu fl ow into the cytoplasm to metallate periplas- mic proteins? If Cu effl ux systems evolved before Cu-requiring proteins—a reasonable idea—then newly
