Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and Stoyanov 2003). Why would cells require Cu fl ow into the cytoplasm to metallate periplas- mic proteins? If Cu effl ux systems evolved before Cu-requiring proteins—a reasonable idea—then newly evolved periplasmic apoproteins may have found the effl ux systems to be the most reliable single source of copper. Periplasmic Cu-binding chaperones may have originally served to sequester copper, af- ter the manner of heavy-metal metallothionines, and subsequently evolved to pluck copper off the export systems and to deposit it onto client proteins. The latter would presumably have acquired chaperone docking sites to make the process maximally effi cient. 76 J. A. Imlay Copper thus stands alone among metals in several ways that all trace back to the strong affi nity with which it binds adventitious ligands. It activates only recently evolved enzymes, which are generally involved in oxygen-dependent processes; it is compartmentalized in the periplasm to avoid reactions between it and exposed Fe-S clusters; and it is traffi cked by chaperones to minimize nonproductive associations with biomolecules. Zinc Chemical Properties and Enzymatic Roles The Irving-Williams series indicates that zinc binds ligands with greater avid- suggested that it was minimally available to the microbes that prevailed in an- oxic, sulfur-rich primordial environments . A more recent analy- sis, however, suggests that zinc might not have been so scarce (Robbins et al. 2013). In any case, proteomics analyses indicate that zinc, unlike copper, was employed as an enzyme cofactor in ancient microbes, and it is employed by enzymes in contemporary anaerobes. Its severalfold greater use in eukarya might refl ect higher b ioavailability in oxic habitats, or it may merely refl ect its expansive use in regulatory proteins. At physiological redox potentials zinc is present exclusively in the diva- lent Zn(II) state. The most common enzymatic use of zinc is as a Lewis acid that activates water as a nucleophile. In this role, zinc is present in many hydrolases, coordinated in its preferred tetrahedral geometry by three ami- no acids (e.g., His, Asp, Cys) and a water or hydroxide moiety (Vallee and Falchuk 1993). In some bacterial enzymes (e.g., aspartate transcarbamoylase; Helmstaedt et al. 2001) it plays a structural role. In the latter guise it is bound by four amino acids, often four cysteines, without any open coordination site. Higher organisms exploit zinc in Zn fi nger structures, wherein the avidity with which it binds His Cys coordination sites is so
