Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


often four cysteines, without any open coordination site. Higher organisms exploit zinc in Zn fi nger structures, wherein the avidity with which it binds His Cys coordination sites is so great as to organize the 2 2 protein fold. Zinc is distinguished from iron, manganese, and copper in that it populates enzymes both in the periplasm and the cytoplasm. One might rationalize the use of zinc in periplasmic proteins by the fact that, like copper, it is a metal that binds proteins tightly. In a compartment in which metals cannot be concentrat- ed, this property might ensure full metallation. In contrast, iron and manganese bind relatively weakly to metal-binding sites, and so their local concentrations must remain high to ensure enzyme activity. Conversely, the thiophilicity of zinc does not match that of Cu(I), and it does not displace iron from Fe-S clusters as readily as does copper (Xu and Imlay 2012). Therefore, substantial levels of zinc can be tolerated in the cytoplasm. Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 77 Ensuring Zinc Suffi ciency Zinc presumably enters the periplasm by passive movement through porins (Figure 5.4). Based on its binding behavior, one expects the environmental Zn ion to be associated with small organic compounds, and it likely enters biological Zn-binding sites through exchange reactions, without dissociation into a fully hydrated Zn(II) form. Entry into the cytoplasm is catalyzed by both ATP- and pmf-driven Zn importers. These are found throughout the microbial biota, usually with both types present in a single species. E. coli, for example, features both the ATP-driven ZnuABC system (Patzer and Hantke 1998) and the proton-driven ZupT importer . Typically, pmf-driven importers operate at higher turnover number but lower affi nity; the converse is true of ATP-driven importers. ZupT is thus likely to be the predominant im- porter of zinc when zinc is relatively abundant, whereas the ZnuABC system is induced when cytoplasmic Zn levels fall . In E. coli, cytoplasmic Zn suffi ciency is monitored by Z ur, a Fur-family t ranscription factor with both structural and regulatory Zn-binding sites (Ma et al. 2011). Like other members of this family, the metallated [Zur:Zn ] form 2 2 Figure 5.4 Zinc homeostatic mechanisms in E . coli. Zinc passively enters the peri- plasm through porins and is pumped into the cytoplasm by ZupT (possibly constitu- tively) and ZnuABC (during Zn scarcity). Scarcity also triggers the replacement of Zn-binding ribosomal
