Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


enters the peri- plasm through porins and is pumped into the cytoplasm by ZupT (possibly constitu- tively) and ZnuABC (during Zn scarcity). Scarcity also triggers the replacement of Zn-binding ribosomal subunits with Zn-independent ones (YkgM and O) as an apparent sparing mechanism. Excess cytoplasmic zinc is sensed by ZntR, which then induces the ZntA exporter to augment the constitutive ZitB exporter. YiiP/FieF may be an ad- ditional Zn (or Fe) exporter. Periplasmic zinc proteins apparently bind zinc directly. Ex- cessive amounts of periplasmic zinc are sensed by the ZraSR two-component system, which induces ZraP, a periplasmic protein that may sequester zinc. 78 J. A. Imlay acts as a repressor of transcription. It is known to control only three E. coli promoters. It represses transcription of the structural genes for the ZnuABC importer, so that this high-affi nity, energetically expensive system is induced only when Zn import through ZupT (or other permeases) is inadequate. A znu mutant is hypersensitive to Z n defi ciency and accumulates less zinc (Patzer and Hantke 1998). This regulatory strategy resembles that for iron. Zur:Zn also represses YkgM and YkgO (Graham et al. 2009; Hensley et al. 2012). These are Zn-free homologs of Zn-binding ribosomal subunits L31 and L36. During periods of Zn defi ciency, the induction of these proteins ap- parently enables them to supplant the Zn-binding proteins; this action would diminish cellular Zn demand and may actually release “stored” zinc through the degradation of the extant Zn-loaded ribosomal subunits. The sparing effect might be substantial, given the high titer of ribosomal proteins inside the cell. This mechanism of Zn redistribution was fi rst identifi ed in B acillus subtilis and S treptomyces coelicolor (Nanamiya et al. 2004; Owen et al. 2007; Shin et al. 2007). The third Zur:Zn-repressed gene is zinT. ZinT is a 25 kDa protein that accu- mulates in the periplasm and exhibits tight (K ~ 20 nM) Zn binding (Graham D et al. 2009). Its role, however, is unclear. Although researchers have suggested that ZinT might serve as a Zn chaperone, perhaps capturing zinc and delivering it to the Znu importer, zinT mutants seem no more sensitive to Zn depletion than do wild-type cells. These adjustments raise the underlying question: What is the most immedi- ate physiological consequence of Zn defi ciency? Whether or not zinc was in- volved in primordial microbes, in contemporary organisms it is apparently an e ssential
