Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


is the most immedi- ate physiological consequence of Zn defi ciency? Whether or not zinc was in- volved in primordial microbes, in contemporary organisms it is apparently an e ssential metal. Zinc has been predicted to cofactor ca. 5% of E. coli proteins , including essential proteins ranging from RNA poly- merase to cell wall amidases. True Zn deprivation is diffi cult to achieve be- cause the metal taints lab glassware; however, exhaustive efforts by the Poole group have confi rmed that Zn defi ciency sharply diminishes growth (Graham et al. 2009). Their study did not identify the Zn-dependent enzymes that com- prised the growth bottleneck, and it is not clear whether Zn-defi cient organ- isms make metabolic compromises analogous to the RyhB-triggered abandon- ment of oxidative phosphorylation during Fe defi ciency. The Hazards of Excessive Zinc Zinc has long been recognized as an inhibitor of enzymes in vitro. Nanomolar concentrations inhibit a wide variety of enzymes through nonspecifi c binding to active site His and Cys residues. Perhaps a more avid mechanism of Zn tox- icity in vivo is through c ompetition with other divalent metals for metal bind- ing sites: on transporters, regulatory proteins, and metal-dependent enzymes. Among transition metals, zinc is particularly problematic because its position on the Irving-Williams series ensures that it binds especially tightly to protein Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 79 ligands. The prediction then is that excess zinc will disrupt the function of en- zymes that work best with other metals. E. coli is strikingly resistant to zinc. This is testimony to the effectiveness of effl ux systems, as sensitivity returns when they are deleted . When suffi cient doses of zinc are added to poison znt mutants, at least two classes of enzymes are targeted. Zinc destroys the exposed Fe-S clusters of the same dehydratases that copper poisons (Xu and Imlay 2012). Presumably the mechanism is again that the softer metal binds either the coordinating cysteine residues or the bridging inorganic sulfi de atoms of the cluster, displacing iron. Zinc is less effective at this effect than is Cu(I), silver, or mercury—again, in accordance with the greater thiophilicity of the latter metals. Manganese, a harder metal, has no effect on these clusters. Zinc favors tetrahedral coordination environments, and this geometry is achieved by most Fe and Mn mononuclear enzymes. It is common for fer- roproteins to acquire zinc during purifi cation;
