Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


clusters. Zinc favors tetrahedral coordination environments, and this geometry is achieved by most Fe and Mn mononuclear enzymes. It is common for fer- roproteins to acquire zinc during purifi cation; once bound, the zinc does not easily dissociate. Therefore, it is not surprising that high levels of intracellular Zn poisons enzymes that have evolved to use ferrous iron as a cofactor metal. Ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase (Rpe) is an example of such an enzyme (Gu and Imlay 2013). In its catalytic cycle its ferrous atom forms bidentate bonds to its substrate, activating it for reversible deprotonation; the product is then released. During this process the Fe atom shifts from four- to six-coordi- nate geometry and back. I ron is effective at this chemistry because of its ability to shift its coordination scheme, and m anganese can effectively substitute. In contrast, while zinc binds, it furnishes < 5% the activity of iron. The reason is not clear: the role of the metal is to stabilize electrostatically the oxyanionic possibility is that iron more easily shifts coordination geometries over the re- action course; another is that iron releases substrate ligands with more alacrity than does a softer metal like zinc. Yet zinc binds far more tightly to the protein: iron dissociates from Rpe with a halftime of a few minutes, while Zn dissocia- tion is negligible in 8 hours. In fact, when E. coli is overloaded with zinc, Rpe activity declines, and the recovered enzyme is quantitatively occupied by zinc. Interestingly, mismetallation of this type is exacerbated by o xidative stress (Gu and Imlay 2013). Both superoxide and hydrogen peroxide can oxidize the ferrous atoms of such enzymes, causing the ferric iron thus formed to dissoci- ate. Remetallation is customarily rapid. However, when such stress is chronic, the repeated dissociation of iron allows zinc many opportunities to compete for the metal-free site, and eventually it wins. Rpe is probably just representative of several mononuclear nonredox enzymes that become mismetallated with zinc during periods of superoxide or peroxide stress. The same effect has been confi rmed for 3-deoxy-D-arabinoheptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase, the Fe enzyme that initiates the aromatic biosynthetic pathway. Failure of this en- zyme is likely the cause of the collapse of this pathway during oxidative stress . 80 J. A. Imlay It is intriguing that although zinc binds extremely tightly to these enzymes in vitro, zinc is quickly removed from them in vivo: when
