Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


oxidative stress . 80 J. A. Imlay It is intriguing that although zinc binds extremely tightly to these enzymes in vitro, zinc is quickly removed from them in vivo: when oxidative stress is relieved inside cells, enzymes reacquire iron within 20 min (Gu and Imlay 2013). This observation suggests that something inside the cell helped extract zinc from these sites. Thiol compounds are the most obvious candidates, and indeed, cysteine (but not glutathione) replicated the effect in vitro. Cysteine is generally a better metal chelator than is g lutathione, because c ysteine provides both a thiolate and a nearby primary amine as metal ligands. In glutathione that amine is derivatized; thus glutathione binds metals poorly. The labilization of zinc by cysteine may be a model for how metals are constantly solubilized and guided away from low-affi nity sites and toward high-affi nity ones in vivo. Of course, it is possible that thiolate proteins (i.e., thioredoxins or glutaredoxins) can also serve this purpose. This has not yet been tested. Avoiding Zinc Excess How does excess zinc enter a cell? The regulation of the znuABC genes by Z ur offers compelling evidence that the Znu system serves the purpose of Zn trans- port (Patzer and Hantke 1998). The znu genes are not needed under routine growth conditions, indicating that other systems supply adequate zinc. One possibility is that import of zinc and other divalent metals is supported by gen- eral divalent importers. Metal importers powered by proton movement, rather than ATP hydrolysis, are generally less particular in their selection of met- als, perhaps refl ecting the thermodynamic price that must be paid to achieve substrate specifi city. ZupT and MntH can each transport a variety of divalent metals, including manganese, cadmium, cobalt, and iron (Grass et al. 2005a; Taudte and Grass 2010). ZupT is generally regarded as a Zn importer: zupT overproduction accelerated the import of exogenous zinc, and zupT defi ciency exacerbated the chelator-sensitivity of znu mutants . The PitA transporter imports divalent cations chelated by phosphate (van Veen et al. 1994); when exogenous Zn levels are high, deletion of pitA lessens the intracellular Zn load . In Cupriavidus metallidurans, the expression of both zupT and pitA was reduced when high levels of zinc were provided . Whether these systems evolved to be broad in their metal selection, or whether their apparent promiscuity is the outcome of extreme experimental conditions, is
