Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


levels of zinc were provided . Whether these systems evolved to be broad in their metal selection, or whether their apparent promiscuity is the outcome of extreme experimental conditions, is uncertain. Nevertheless, it is clear that Zn overimport is a natural phenomenon, as bac- teria universally express countermeasures to avoid it. ZntA is a P-type ATPase that exports zinc from cytoplasm to periplasm . ZitB, a member of the cation diffusion facilitator family, does the same (Grass et al. 2001). Both are induced when E. coli is exposed to high levels of zinc. Careful measurements show that upon abrupt exposure to zinc, ZitB lessens the imme- diate Zn accumulation, while ZntA has a more pronounced effect at later points Common Mechanisms of Bacterial Metal Homeostasis 81 in time . The implication is that ZitB may comprise a basal export activity, while after-induction ZntA supersedes it.1 The induction of zntA is stimulated by Zn-bound Z ntR (Brocklehurst et al. 1999). The responsiveness to zinc is sharpened by the fact that the Zn-free ZntR is subject to rapid proteolysis . In vitro measure- ments indicate that the Zn dissociation constant of DNA-bound Zur is 10–16 M, while that of ZntR is approximately fi vefold higher; this suggests that the window between them represents the target Zn activity inside cells (Outten and O’Halloran 2001) . Total Zn in E. coli is ~ 0.2 mM. One infers that even exchangeable zinc is continuously coordinated by metabolites and the surfaces of biomolecules. As discussed above, aqueous metal provides a standard state for binding-constant measurements but is not regarded as physiologically rele- vant. By using a modifi ed form of carbonic anhydrase as a Zn sensor, however, the Fierke group determined that the steady-state level of hydrated zinc inside wild-type E. coli is actually far higher, about 20 pM . Since ZntR is not activated inside these cells—as judged from the fact that zntA and other ZntR-controlled genes are not induced—there is an apparent contradic- tion. One possibility is that the in vitro behaviors of either ZntR or the carbonic anhydrase construct did not represent their Zn affi nity in vivo. Alternatively, Wang et al. considered whether activation might be kinetically determined; that is, that the activity of ZntR may depend on the speed with which it ac- quires zinc, rather than on its binding equilibrium per se. In principle, rapid ac- tivation might require Zn
