Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


activity of ZntR may depend on the speed with which it ac- quires zinc, rather than on its binding equilibrium per se. In principle, rapid ac- tivation might require Zn levels far in excess of femtomolar levels. However, they noted that during a post-pulse period of Zn effl ux, the ZntR response shut down even while intracellular Zn levels were still in the low nanomolar range, as reported by the carbonic anhydrase construct. Absent additional regulatory wrinkles (or inadequate equilibration by the reporter protein), this result im- plies that the binding constant of ZntR determined in vitro does not apply in vivo. This conundrum is currently unresolved, but the work presents a creative experimental design to put questions about Zn homeostasis on a quantitative footing. Finally, exposure to extracellular zinc activates a pair of two-component systems. First, the ZraS/ZraR system triggers synthesis of a single gene: ZraP , which encodes a 15 kD Zn-binding periplasmic pro- tein. Under high Zn conditions, ZraP is reported to bind 70% of the proteome- associated zinc . Although a chaperone role is possible, the function of ZraP may simply be to sequester or buffer zinc. ZraS differs from ZntR in that ZraS senses periplasmic Zn levels. Sequestration there, of course, could protect both periplasmic and cytoplasmic compartments from overloading. Second, the BaeSR system is also activated by exogenous zinc, Complicating the picture: YiiP (FieF) is another CDF family member. It effl uxes either Fe or Zn in vitro and is modestly induced by overload of either in vivo (Grass et al. 2005b; Lu et al. 2009). Its physiological substrate is uncertain. 82 J. A. Imlay and it stimulates the synthesis of proteins that also diminish cytoplasmic Zn levels (Wang and Fierke 2013). Two members of the regulon, MdtABC and MdtD, appear to be pumps, and the most obvious explanation is that they ex- port zinc or zinc complexes. Why the cell would need so many effl ux pumps is unclear. Summary Metal metabolism is a major part of cellular biochemistry, and both metal defi cits and excesses disrupt physiology. The particular challenge with metals is that they are similar enough that mistakes are made, but different enough that enzyme mismetallation impedes function. This review has attempted to summarize current knowledge of how metals are used, how their intracellular concentrations are c ontrolled, and how cells cope with too much or too little. Perplexing questions
