Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


has attempted to summarize current knowledge of how metals are used, how their intracellular concentrations are c ontrolled, and how cells cope with too much or too little. Perplexing questions remain:  Are importers controlled at the level of enzyme activity, either by al- lostery or product inhibition? How about exporters?  How are metals traffi cked through the cell: by ligand exchange with a multitude of metabolites, or with a dedicated few?  How are metals excised from inappropriate sites? Is the identity of a metal in a protein site determined primarily by binding thermody- namics or kinetics?  Do optimal metal pool sizes depend on environmental circumstances? If so, how does the cell adjust its homeostatic mechanisms to change the pool size?  How are metal regulatory proteins confi gured to resist or cope with metallation by noncognate metals?  To what extent has evolution adjusted the metals used by particular enzymes to fi t the metal availability of the local habitat? What is the nature(s) of these adjustments? Acknowledgments Insightful comments from other participants in the Forum are gratefully acknowledged. Research in the author’s lab is supported by GM49640 and GM101012 from the Na- tional Institutes of Health. Intervention Strategies for Metal Defi ciency and Overload Fudi Wang and Lihong Zhang Abstract An increasing amount of evidence shows the linkage between metal ion homeostasis and human disease. Defi ciency or overload of metal ions play vital roles in many human diseases, including infectious disease. Nutritional supplementation and m etal-based drugs have been suggested as potential intervention strategies to develop treatment for various diseases related to metal defi ciency and overload. However, there are numerous forms of metal ion supplementation and metal-based drugs with different features. This chapter provides an overview of the recommended dietary allowance, tolerable upper intake levels, and b ioavailability of metal elements and offers perspectives on inter- vention strategies for metal defi ciency and overload. Data for analysis were obtained National Academic Press websites were another principal source of data. Introduction It is well known that some metal ions (iron, zinc, copper, selenium, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, and vanadium) are essential for the proper functioning of living cells. Defi ciency of these essential metal ions is often linked with an increased risk for various diseases, including infectious diseases, especially among at-risk populations. Supplementation with metal ions has been shown to prevent, attenuate, and treat a
