Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


is often linked with an increased risk for various diseases, including infectious diseases, especially among at-risk populations. Supplementation with metal ions has been shown to prevent, attenuate, and treat a portion of infectious diseases successfully. For example, worldwide, Zn defi ciency is responsible for approximately 16% of lower r espiratory tract infections, 18% of m alaria, and 10% of diarrhoe- al disease; Zn supplementation has been recommended by the World Health Organization as the main treatment of choice for d iarrhea among children un- der fi ve years of age (WHO/UNICEF 2004). Whether essential or not, all metal can be toxic to living cells. Metal overload may cause illness and even death in humans. For example, about 100,000 children born with transfusion-dependent β thalassaemia are currently 84 F. Wang and L. Zhang reliant on regular transfusions, and at least 3,000 die annually in their teens or early twenties from uncontrolled F e overload (Modell and Darlison 2008). Moreover, Fe overload has been demonstrated to be related to some of the world’s most common infections: malaria, HIV-1, and tuberculosis (Sazawal et al. 2006; Boelaert et al. 2007; Prentice et al. 2007; Drakesmith and Prentice 2008). Therefore, it is urgent to consider the most appropriate strategies for prevention and treatment of metal overload. Government agencies in many countries have been providing nutritional (including essential metal elements) advice to the public for several decades. The aim of this chapter is to give an overview of the recommended dietary allowance (RDA), tolerable upper intake level (UIL), and bioavailability of metal elements and present perspectives on intervention strategies for metal defi ciency and overload. Recommended Dietary Allowance RDA is the daily intake level of a nutrient that is considered to be suffi cient to meet the requirements of 97% of healthy individuals for sustenance or avoid- ance of defi ciency states. It was developed during World War II by Lydia J. Roberts, Hazel Stiebeling, and Helen S. Mitchell. They surveyed all available data, created a tentative set of allowances for “energy and eight nutrients,” and submitted them to experts for review. The fi nal sets of guidelines were ac- cepted in 1941. The committee established by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences to investigate issues of n utrition was renamed the Food and Nutrition Board in 1941. Since then, this board reviews and revises the RDAs every fi ve to ten years. The reference daily
