Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


urgent 94 F. Wang and L. Zhang for governments and academic institutions to provide related information, in- cluding recent developments in nutritional research, through various publicity approaches such as media, websites, and training programs. To this end, in 2013 we organized the fi rst “Westlake Frontiers in Nutrition Research Training Program” in Hangzhou, China. Designed to provide a perennial platform of exchange for Chinese and overseas nutritional professionals, the program was a huge success. It is hoped that it will become an instrumental component to advance the health of all Chinese people. Environmental infl uences on both metal defi ciency and overload cannot be ignored. Minamata disease, endemic in Japan, is a typical example of metal over- load: large-scale food poisoning is caused by methylmercury. In November 2010, 2,271 patients were offi cially diagnosed as having Minamata disease; estimates, however, place the number of people from affected areas, who ex- hibit neurologic signs of m ethylmercury poisoning, in the tens of thousands . The bioaccumulation and biomagnifi cations of heavy metals such as m ercury, lead, and c admium pose a serious, continuous risk growth of the economic industry (e.g., the market of fl uorescent lamps that use mercury as an essential component), heavy metal exposure is expected to gain a high degree of public attention. K eshan disease, an endemic heart disease in China, is a typical example of metal defi ciency. Extensive cross-sectional epidemiological studies have shown t hat low Se concentrations in cereal grains and low Se status of lo- cal residents are associated with the occurrence of Keshan disease. Several large population-based intervention trials, using oral administration of sodium selenite tablets, have shown signifi cant reduction in the incidence of Keshan disease . It is thus imperative to identify defi ciencies of essential metal elements in different areas, especially mild levels of metal defi ciencies, which are more diffi cult to recognize than severe and moderate defi ciencies. Certainly, data from these endemic diseases provide a scientifi c basis for iden- tifying the minimum requirement, RDA, or UIL for certain metal elements. Metal–metal interaction is an important matter of concern. The metabolism and transport of metal ions is a complex process that takes place in numerous transporters in mammals. An example of a typical metal ions transporter can be found in the d ivalent metal ion transporter 1 (DMT1), which transports not only iron but also
