Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


transporters in mammals. An example of a typical metal ions transporter can be found in the d ivalent metal ion transporter 1 (DMT1), which transports not only iron but also zinc, copper, manganese, cobalt, nick- el, and the toxic metal ions lead and cadmium. Therefore, any strategy de- signed to address metal defi ciency and overload must take DMT1 into account. Excessive intake or defi ciency of one metallic element may interfere with ab- sorption, excretion, transport, storage, function, or metabolism of other metals. Recently, Graham et al. (2012) showed that Fe defi ciency—the most common Intervention Strategies for Metal Defi ciency and Overload 95 metal defi ciency affecting nearly 2 billion people worldwide—may be due to underlying zinc and other t race metal defi ciencies. Moreover, F e defi ciency has become a risk factor for c admium toxicity since it causes increases in tis- sue cadmium levels . Nutrition and health status may vary from individual to individual, and especially between people living in differ- ent areas, due to variations in environmental infl uence. People obtain metal ions from any combination of f ood (including highly f ortifi ed food), water, and nonfood sources (e.g., nutrient supplements and pharmacologic agents). Imbalances among the concentrations of metal elements may pose a risk for ability and effect of fortifi ed foods or supplements may differ from the natural constituents of foods. Regulating the endogenous distribution of metal ions is a vital therapeutic strat- egy for treating diseases with metal homeostasis imbalance. It must be kept in mind that some diseases related to metal defi ciency or over- load are caused by an inappropriate distribution of metal ions in organs or cell compartments. Using Alzheimer disease as an example, an increasing amount of evidence has demonstrated abundant distribution of Zn ions in the plaques of brains of people with the disease; this indicates an overload of Zn ions in the brain. Metal chelator treatment with clioquinol has provided signifi cant evidence of slowing cognitive deterioration . Surprisingly, metal chelator treatment increased the brain Zn level ; in contrast, low dietary zinc caused a signifi cant 25% increase in total plaque vol- ume in Alzheimer mice using stereological measures . Further studies demonstrated that clioquinol and PBT are ionophores that pro- mote the transport of zinc, iron, and copper across cell membranes (Adlard et al. 2008). Furthermore, an imbalance between “soluble” and
