Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


demonstrated that clioquinol and PBT are ionophores that pro- mote the transport of zinc, iron, and copper across cell membranes (Adlard et al. 2008). Furthermore, an imbalance between “soluble” and “insoluble” metal ions (such as Cu2+) is also a likely cause for diseases with metal homeostasis imbalance . Therefore, any strategy for treatment of diseases re- lated to metal defi ciency and overload should take this into account. Further understanding of metal elements and the mechanisms of metal defi cien- cy or overload is of great importance to the development and design of metal- based drugs. Knowledge of metal–metal interactions has been used successfully as a treat- ment strategy. In the case of C u overload in W ilson disease, treatment with zinc has been demonstrated as very effective in preventing symptoms. Take iron for example: the identifi cation of hepcidin as a key regulator of Fe absorption and Fe distribution in health and disease has greatly advanced our understand- ing of Fe homeostasis in humans and, in turn, has promoted the development of drugs aimed at decreasing Fe overload. Hepcidin mimetics, minihepcidins, have been shown to be effective in reducing Fe overload . 96 F. Wang and L. Zhang Natural p lant extracts may provide opportunities for a new intervention strategy to address metal defi ciency and overload. It is generally more diffi cult to absorb metal ions (e.g., iron) from plant matter than it is from animal sources. Since ancient times, empirical dietary thera- pies for treating a wide variety of diseases, including F e-defi ciency anemia, emerged in both traditional Chinese medicine and dietary culture. The contra- diction between absorption from plant and animal sources indicates a mecha- nism that requires analysis. It may account for signifi cant sources of dietary metal and play a key role in regulating the metal homeostasis. To pursue this, we recently screened 16 different medicinal plant extracts used to treat anemia- related disorders in traditional Chinese medicine and identifi ed the extract of C aulis Spatholobi (also called Jixueteng, the stem of Spatholobus suberectus Dunn) as a novel, potent hepcidin-encoding gene (HAMP) expression inhibi- tor. This extract could be modifi ed and optimized into a dietary supplement or a therapeutic option for the amelioration of hepcidin-overexpression-related diseases, including F e-defi ciency anemia . Of further inter- est, recent studies in our laboratory on the molecular mechanisms of “black foods” (i.e., foods
