Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


for the amelioration of hepcidin-overexpression-related diseases, including F e-defi ciency anemia . Of further inter- est, recent studies in our laboratory on the molecular mechanisms of “black foods” (i.e., foods that are black in color) inducing e rythropoiesis have shown that the black soybean extract regulates Fe metabolism by inhibiting the ex- pression of hepcidin . These fi ndings reveal the potency of natural plants in regulating Fe homeostasis and are bound to attract valuable research into natural plants and their regulation of other metal ions in homeo- stasis, hence, the prevention and treatment for diseases related to metal defi - ciency and overload. In conclusion, metal defi ciency and overload have become a major problem affecting billions of people worldwide. Whether metal defi ciency and overload are seen as the cause or result of infectious, neurodegenerative, or immune system diseases, intervention strategies offer new insights into the prevention and treatment of these diseases. First column (top to bottom): Jennifer Cavet, Sascha Brunke, Dennis Thiele, Heran Darwin, Robert Perry, Sascha Brunke, Carol Fierke Second column: Robert Perry, Heran Darwin, Jeffrey Weiser, Michael Murphy, Jennifer Cavet, Jeffrey Weiser, Dennis Thiele Third column: Carol Fierke, James Imlay, Anthony Schryvers, James Imlay, group discussion, Michael Murphy, Anthony Schryvers Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions The Microbe Perspective Jennifer S. Cavet, Robert D. Perry, Sascha Brunke, K. Heran Darwin, Carol A. Fierke, James A. Imlay, Michael E. P. Murphy, Anthony B. Schryvers, Dennis J. Thiele, and Jeffrey N. Weiser Abstract Metals play a central role in the outcome of host–pathogen interactions. Microbes must acquire metals for metabolic processes, with nearly a half of all enzymes requiring a metal cofactor for function, yet microbes can be poisoned by metals. The host innate immune defenses are thought to exploit these vulnerabilities to protect against invading pathogens, whereas microbes can respond by employing multiple strategies to maintain their metal homeostasis. An understanding of these microbial strategies combined with knowledge of the diverse metal challenges faced by different microbes in the various host niches could inform the development of much needed new approaches for combat- ing infectious diseases. This chapter summarizes extensive discussions on the interplay of metal ions in host–microbe interactions, from the microbial perspective. The focus is on fi ve key areas, highlighted as requiring a greater understanding: (a) how we defi ne and determine metal availability, (b) the different levels and sources of metals available to
