Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


on fi ve key areas, highlighted as requiring a greater understanding: (a) how we defi ne and determine metal availability, (b) the different levels and sources of metals available to microbes in different niches within the host, (c) the effect of the metal status of a pathogen, as derived from its prior environment, on its ability to establish an infection or the severity of disease, (d) the interplay between metals and the m icrobiota, and (e) how metal restriction and metal oversupply can kill or inhibit the growth of microbes. This chapter provides an overview of current understanding in these areas and raises a number of important open questions in need of future research. 100 J. S. Cavet et al. Introduction Our discussions addressed the relationship between the metal status of differ- ent host niches and the capabilities of different microbes (pathogens and com- mensals) within these niches to compete for metals and avoid metal poisoning in determining disease outcomes. The best understood microbial systems be- long to the bacteria and fungi; hence these organisms formed the basis of the discussions. Four background papers to this Forum informed and contributed greatly to our discussions: Lemire et al. (Chapter 2), Bachmann and Weiser (Chapter 3), Loutet et al. (Chapter 4), and Imlay (Chapter 5). Metal Availability both within and outside microbial cells? In approaching this question, we fo- cused primarily on intracellular metal availability and how metal-requiring proteins acquire their correct metal cofactors (Figure 7.1). Metal Availability outside Microbial Cells Hosts are suspected of manipulating metal availability in ways that stymie or support the growth of pathogenic and commensal microbes. This concept is diffi cult to approach and evaluate, because metal availability remains poorly defi ned and understood. What we consider as bioavailable metal to a pathogen in the host environment may, to some extent, differ depending on the particular pathogen and the array of m etal uptake systems and receptors that they possess and express; microbes frequently employ multiple uptake systems, particularly for iron (Fe), to meet their metabolic needs. In addition, the bioavailability of a particular metal within a specifi c niche is dependent not only on the total metal content, but also on other factors: m etal speciation (including oxidation state, mineralization, and the presence of metal-binding ligands), pH, and oxygen levels. The ability of a cell to acquire a given metal may also depend on the concentration
