Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


(including oxidation state, mineralization, and the presence of metal-binding ligands), pH, and oxygen levels. The ability of a cell to acquire a given metal may also depend on the concentration of competing metals for expressed transport systems. In terms of trying to address the metal requirements of microbes, there are diffi culties in carrying out growth experiments in metal-restricted conditions. The use of chelators to restrict a single metal in microbial growth experiments can be problematic as few chelators are available that are highly specifi c for a particu- lar metal, and for microbial growth experiments in complex media, alternative practical options are not yet available. A direct assay of the availability of a given metal is not easily accomplished and may be better defi ned by analyzing the rate at which a given organism is able to accumulate the metal. Microbial metal-responsive transcription factors act to integrate the expres- sion of cellular metal uptake, export, and sequestration systems with both their Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 101 Zn Fe Mn Metal channels Bacterial cell envelope Readily exchangeable metal Storage Kinetically Ribosomes (Zn) trapped metal Ferritin (Fe) etc. ? bound to protein Apo- metallochaperone Importer Exporter Cu Ni Figure 7.1 A model for the control of metal availability inside bacteria. Metal chan- nels function to import and export various nutritional metals (circles). These include outer membrane/cell-surface receptors, inner membrane transporters, and transporters that span the entire cell envelope. A readily exchangeable pool of metals (including zinc, iron, and manganese) is thought to exist that is bound to proteins, small metabolites, and membrane surfaces. These metals can be kinetically trapped when bound to some pro- teins (dashed lines). Metals can also be sequestered for storage (e.g., zinc and iron are stored in ribosomes and ferritin, respectively), which may contribute to the metal buffer- ing capacity of the cell. The metallation status of Zn, Fe, and Mn proteins is thought to be determined by the thermodynamic equilibrium with the readily exchangeable metal pool. For copper and nickel, protein m etallochaperones may circumvent thermodynam- ic competition by delivering cognate metals from importers to their designated proteins (both in the cytoplasm and cell envelope). Excess metal or metal released from protein turnover may also be transported by metallochaperones for effl ux. metabolic needs and environmental metal availability. Metal-sequestering pro- teins can store metals and allow for their controlled release in cells, whereas transmembrane metal
