Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


be transported by metallochaperones for effl ux. metabolic needs and environmental metal availability. Metal-sequestering pro- teins can store metals and allow for their controlled release in cells, whereas transmembrane metal transporters control metal ion uptake into and effl ux out of microbial cells. The lack of passive permeation of metal ions across cell membranes means that the active uptake and effl ux of metal ions by the trans- membrane transporters ultimately determines the intracellular metal levels. 102 J. S. Cavet et al. Metal Availability inside Microbial Cells There is still uncertainty as to how proteins acquire the correct metals. Although we currently have tools (e.g., inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry) that can easily measure the total metal content in microbes (see Matusch et al., this volume), it remains unclear as to what form this metal is in and to what extent it is accessible to metal-requiring proteins. The fi eld has not yet even reached consensus on the speciation of metals in cells and how to defi ne the metal available for binding to high-affi nity protein sites in cells. Another consideration is that metals tend to associate to metal-binding sites of proteins according to the Irving-Williams series. Hence the relative avail- ability of different metals in a cell is likely to determine which metal species associate with a given protein. For example, the concentration and speciation of the Zn and Fe pools within a cell may be controlled to favor Fe binding to an Fe-requiring protein, even though the affi nity of the protein for zinc may be higher than that for iron. Alternatively, selection could occur at a kinetic level using a specifi c metal shuttle (or metallochaperone), thus overcoming thermodynamic constraints. The extent of the involvement of metal shuttles in assisting proteins in acquiring their correct metal cofactors, however, remains a subject of debate. What Is the Nature of the Pool of Exchangeable Metal inside Cells? In our discussion of the possible nature of the pool of cellular metals avail- able to bind to proteins, it was noted that within cells, metal ions are bound by both high-affi nity ligands (such as m etalloproteins) and low-affi nity ligands (including small molecules and nonspecifi c binding to macromolecules). However, the fi eld has not yet agreed upon the best way to describe the cel- lular concentration of metal ions “available” to bind to high-affi nity ligands within proteins.
