Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


However, the fi eld has not yet agreed upon the best way to describe the cel- lular concentration of metal ions “available” to bind to high-affi nity ligands within proteins. Semantically, we dislike the term “free” metal, as it connotes metal bound to nothing but water (fully hydrated metal), which is unlikely to exist within cells. There was, however, general agreement that “available” metals are likely bound to metabolites and adventitious biomolecule surfaces. These metals are likely to be labile: through ligand-exchange reactions, they are accessible to the active metal-binding sites of enzymes. The term “readily exchangeable” metal was put forward as a term to refl ect that the ability of metals to populate a binding site is modulated by competing ligands within the cell. Thus, the exchangeable metal pool is buffered by rapid equilibration with other ligands. The extent to which a particular metal is readily exchange- able may differ for different metals. Metals for which we have known metal- lochaperones ( copper [Cu] and nickel [Ni]) should be considered as the least readily exchangeable, whereas manganese (Mn), zinc (Zn), and iron may be considered the most readily exchangeable. Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 103 The question then arises: Which molecules are the primary ligands for the pool of exchangeable metal? This is important for modeling m etal availability in cells. It is not known if cells modulate the metal-binding capacity of this ligand pool, by increasing or decreasing the concentration of a predominant liganding metabolite, to control the amount or identities of the metals that are available to enzymes. It is likely that the ligands include free amino acids ( cys- teine, histidine, glutamate) and glutathione; however, they could also include functional groups on the surfaces of membranes, nucleic acids, and proteins. A further consideration is the role and buffering capacity of dedicated metal stores (such as bacterial ferritins) or, for eukaryotic fungal pathogens, vacuoles that have general metal storage capacity or specialized functions (e.g., “z inco- somes”; Devirgiliis et al. 2004). In addition to not knowing the major components of the weak ligand pool dissociation from some proteins is faster than would be predicted from simple dissociation rate constants, suggesting that some small molecules facilitate the extraction of metals. It probably follows that these ligands speed the fl ow of metals between low- and high-affi nity binding sites, allowing thermodynamic equilibration to be more rapidly attained. In
