Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of metals. It probably follows that these ligands speed the fl ow of metals between low- and high-affi nity binding sites, allowing thermodynamic equilibration to be more rapidly attained. In principle, the size and nature of the weak ligand pool could infl uence how quickly and specifi cally various metals populate authentic binding sites in enzymes. In summary, the nature of the ligands involved in such an important feature of m etal homeostasis remains largely unknown. In addition, the importance of this pool of metal ions in allowing pathogens to survive under low metal con- ditions is still not understood. There are some methods that could be used to evaluate the exchangeable metal pools. Currently, small-molecule fl uorescent probes are useful for monitoring calcium and Cu fl uxes in cells (Dodani et al. 2011; Davidson and Duchen 2012); a similar approach could potentially be used to monitor other metals in cells, although the probes would need to be in thermodynamic equilibrium (this is often not true for regulators, which may kinetically trap metals). An estimate of the readily exchangeable pool of zinc in Escherichia coli has been made by the expression of engineered fl uorescent carbonic anhydrase proteins with defi ned Zn affi nity . Such an approach might be generalized to other metal pools (e.g., iron and manga- nese) as well as other microbial species. Protein-based metal sensors are also useful as they can be tagged, but again, their rate of metal exchange must be considered. Another approach would be to use X -ray fl uorescence microprobe (XRM) imaging . However, this technique measures only the metal identity and amount; it does not provide information about the metal ligand. For eukaryotic cells, fl uorescent ligands and XRM imaging can, how- ever, provide information about the metal compartmentalization in organelles. For a summary of techniques available for the analysis of metals in biological samples, see Matusch et al. (this volume). 104 J. S. Cavet et al. What Are the Native Metals Bound to Enzymes, and How Does One Figure This Out? In the published literature, there is substantial uncertainty, and even mis-iden- tifi cation, of the metals that populate specifi c enzymes. This arises from metal exchange in vitro. Mis-identifi cation can lead to a failure to recognize the de- pendence of certain enzymes and pathways upon the availability of a certain metal. For example, native metal ions may be
