Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


cation can lead to a failure to recognize the de- pendence of certain enzymes and pathways upon the availability of a certain metal. For example, native metal ions may be released from proteins upon cell lysis, followed by binding of an incorrect metal ion. This mechanism is particularly problematic for iron and manganese, which are often replaced by zinc upon cell lysis. Retention of redox sensitive metals, such as ferrous iron, by proteins can frequently be improved by cell lysis under anoxic conditions. Ideally, we would like to identify the metals bound to proteins in live cells. A potential method of doing this would be to use mass spectrometry to identify protein metalloforms in vivo . However, currently there is a problem of sensitivity: it is not possible to get resolution at the subcellular level, and it is diffi cult to obtain enough material to measure single metal- protein complexes. Do Metalloforms of an Enzyme Differ Depending on Circumstance? Some proteins actually have multiple metalloforms in vivo. These metallo- forms are part of a response to the availability of the metals from a habi- tat and cellular stores. Less clear is the frequency with which a secondary metalloform actually supplies suffi cient enzyme activity in vivo. Examples of successful Mn substitution for iron exist (Anjem and Imlay 2012); however, in other cases, full activity is met instead by the expression of a Mn-specifi c isozyme (Compan and Touati 1993; Cotruvo and Stubbe 2011). Similarly, zinc is capable of replacing nonredox ferrous iron, at least in some cases (and vice versa). For m etalloproteins harboring structural metal sites, isozyme sub- stitution can release a metal for general use. An example is Zn release from the substitution of ribosomal proteins . Many metal- loproteins are, however, highly metal specifi c; the loss of availability of the cognate metal results in loss of activity to the cell. For example, proteins with iron-sulfur (Fe-S) centers and heme are Fe specifi c, and a lack of iron requires adaption of metabolism. In addition to liberating iron by metal substitution, as described above, microbes may employ an Fe-sparing response that re- duces the expression of pathways requiring heme or Fe-S proteins. Example pathways that are repressed are the TCA cycle and sections of the respiratory chain . In addition t o simply restricting microbial access to essential metals, a hos- tile host may be able to
