Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


are the TCA cycle and sections of the respiratory chain . In addition t o simply restricting microbial access to essential metals, a hos- tile host may be able to poison microbes by forcing protein mis-metallation. The microbial metal homeostasis adaptation mechanisms have the potential to mute the possible effect. As such, knowledge of these adaption mechanisms Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 105 may point to an understanding of how a combination of host metal sequester- ing and supply systems can be used to control microbes. Do Thermodynamics of Binding Sites Control the Metallation Status? The metallation status of many Zn and Fe proteins is likely determined by t her- modynamic equilibration with the readily exchangeable metal pools in cells. However, the metal status of some proteins likely refl ects the kinetic trapping of a metal rather than its thermodynamic equilibration. The trapping of zinc in a Mn periplasmic binding protein provides one example . These differences in the exchange rates of metals may lead to differences in de-metallation behavior. For example, the loss of a metal from a habitat may lead to de-metallation of thermodynamically determined proteins (e.g., some simple Fe and Zn enzymes) by exchange with the cellular l igand pool, but not proteins with a kinetically trapped metal ion (e.g., s uperoxide dismutase, SOD). This also raises the prospect that the spectrum of under-metallated pro- teins would differ, depending on whether a protein was de-metallated during metal starvation (SOD would retain its metal) or synthesized during starvation (SOD would not have acquired its metal). It is possible that a variation in Zn affi nities of native Zn proteins could constitute a prioritization system under Zn starvation that has been evolutionarily selected. In addition, differences may be seen in the Zn affi nities among proteins, if a protein is able to use an alternative metal during Zn defi ciency. It is not clear if all proteins are fully metallated under metal-suffi cient conditions; the retention of apoenzymes may contribute to the buffering capacity of a cell and may allow the cell to respond to variations in metal content and identity. What Is the Involvement of Metal Shuttles (Metal Ligands and Proteins)? Protein metallochaperones direct metals to preferred client proteins and cir- cumvent thermodynamic c ompetition. At present, data indicate that nickel and copper are often delivered this way; characterized examples include Cu metallochaperones for Cu, Zn-SOD and caa3-type
