Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


proteins and cir- cumvent thermodynamic c ompetition. At present, data indicate that nickel and copper are often delivered this way; characterized examples include Cu metallochaperones for Cu, Zn-SOD and caa3-type cytochrome oxidase, and Ni metallochaperones for h ydrogenase and urease (Kaluarachchi et al. 2010; Robinson and Winge 2010; Osman et al. 2013). It was noted, though, that Caenorhabditis elegans delivers copper to C u/Zn-SOD w ithout using a metal- lochaperone (Jensen and Culotta 2005). There are no compelling data to say that iron, zinc, and manganese are handled by metallochaperones, and it ap- pears likely that either there are no protein-based metallochaperones or that redundant systems exist. The role of m etallochaperones in protein metalla- tion is an important question, because it may limit the extent to which cellular metal imbalances can lead to protein mis-metallation. Where metal selectivity is dependent on the relative metal concentrations, metal imbalances will lead to mis-metallation. Nickel and copper are delivered to a relative handful of 106 J. S. Cavet et al. proteins, and so the evolution of a metallochaperone system that includes a receiver domain on client proteins may have been easier. Metallochaperones for iron, zinc, and manganese might also be disfavored if cells have evolved to substitute one metal for another under conditions in which the primary metal is unavailable; a strict metallochaperone system might not allow that latitude. Summary Not all determinants of metal selectivity in cells are yet known. These deter- minants vary for each metal ion and may change depending on the nutritional environment and pathogen. Currently there are two extreme paradigms for metal selectivity (Figure 7.1). The fi rst stipulates that a metal ion is transported into the cell and immediately transferred to a metallochaperone protein, which delivers the metal to a specifi c metalloprotein. Most likely, c opper and n ickel follow this type of pathway in many, but not all, organisms. For metal ions that activate a small number of proteins, these metallochaperone-dependent pathways likely occur. In contrast, other metal ions, such as zinc and iron, metal selectivity in cells for these ions is proposed to depend primarily on the metal affi nity of the metalloprotein and the cellular “readily exchange- able” metal concentration, which is determined by both the total metal con- tent and the buffering capacity of the cell. Metal-responsive regulators likely sense this metal pool to modulate the expression of metal homeostatic systems
