Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


determined by both the total metal con- tent and the buffering capacity of the cell. Metal-responsive regulators likely sense this metal pool to modulate the expression of metal homeostatic systems according to cellular needs. These systems control the readily exchangeable metal concentration. In many cases, neither the metal affi nity of the proteins nor the readily exchangeable metal concentration in a cell is known, which makes estimation of the native metal ion diffi cult. Furthermore, the readily ex- changeable metal ion concentration in the cell likely varies with metal nutrition know whether microbes actively manage metal pool speciation to optimize the availability of the appropriate metal for macromolecular incorporation. Under changing metal loads, the metal(s) bound to metalloproteins may also vary. In some cases, the enzymes retain activity with the substituted metal ion, suggest- ing that this mechanism may potentially be used to address metal scarcity and metal overload. However, the importance of this mechanism during infections is not known and may vary for different microbes. Different Levels and Sources of Metals in Different Microbial Niches within the Host Here we focused on the different potential metal sources available to microbes at distinct locations within the host. At the heart of this discussion was the opinion that the metal sources available to a particular pathogen will vary Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 107 depending on a variety of factors, including its particular niche within the host, its route of entry, array of metal uptake and storage systems, and strategies for survival within the host. Diversity of Ecological Niches for Microbes in the Vertebrate Host The vertebrate host represents a diverse array of e cological niches for coloniz- ing microbes that vary, for example, in the level of available oxygen, nutrients, metals, metal-binding ligands, and pH. In regard to the availability of metal ions for microbes in these different sites, a primary consideration is the degree to which the availability is due to external sources versus a dependence on host-derived metal ions. For example, microbes that inhabit the gastrointes- tinal tract may predominantly acquire metal ions provided from the intake of food, whereas microbes that inhabit the skin or u pper r espiratory tract are pri- marily dependent on host-derived metal ions. Within the g astrointestinal tract there will also be substantial differences in the nature of the available metal ions in the f ood, due to the various stages of
