Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


ions. Within the g astrointestinal tract there will also be substantial differences in the nature of the available metal ions in the f ood, due to the various stages of processing: exposure to acid pH in the stomach, exposure to proteases, and exposure to microbes and microbial products in the lower gut. Metal ions in the form of salts present in food (in- cluded as additives) or provided in the form of supplements are modifi ed by the acidic environment of the stomach and infl uence the subsequent utilization by microbes and uptake by the host. Although the major differences between environments in different host sys- tems and subdivisions are fairly obvious, the degree to which various “micro- niches” might exist or be created by specifi c host–pathogen interactions and infl uence metal availability is less known. Different microbes that can colonize the same region have a different repertoire of metal ion acquisition strategies, and it is not readily apparent whether this is a refl ection of inhabiting a distinct niche, accessing different compartments, or a result of microbial interactions. For instance, it is unclear why t ransferrin receptors are present on N eisseria meningitidis and a subset of the “commensal” N eisseria species, whereas other Neisseria possess a distinct and different repertoire of Fe acquisition strategies . Sources and Forms of Metal Ions in Different Niches For niches in which the host is the primary source of metal ions, there is a paucity of information regarding the ultimate source or form of available metal ions. For instance, on the m ucosal surface of the upper respiratory tract there are no well-described mechanisms for provision of metal ions to the microbes that inhabit that environment. It is generally presumed that glandular cells secrete l actoferrin onto the mucosal surface, but it is normally in the apo form; thus it will not provide a source of iron but will infl uence the availability and form of any iron that is present. Similarly, the secretion of lipocalin 2 (s iderocalin) will 108 J. S. Cavet et al. capture Fe- siderophore complexes on the mucosal surface but may not repre- sent provision of metal ions to that environment. The secretions from glandular cells contain mucins, which are rich in cysteines, and other constituents that would be capable of complexing metal ions; however, the metal ion content of the secretions has not yet been
