Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


contain mucins, which are rich in cysteines, and other constituents that would be capable of complexing metal ions; however, the metal ion content of the secretions has not yet been determined. The presence of surface receptors on microbes for Fe-containing host pro- teins or protein complexes and the dependence of some microbial species on these receptors for survival in the host suggest that either these host proteins (transferrin, hemoglobin, hemoglobin-haptoglobin, heme-hemopexin, ferritin) are somehow transported to the mucosal surface, or that the microbes which possess these receptors are capable of accessing or residing in the submucosal space to access these Fe sources. Episodic bleeding or damage and replace- ment of mucosal epithelial cells are possible sources for these proteins, but whether this would maintain an adequate supply of metal ions is unclear. The recent observation that H elicobacter pylori modulates the activity of stomach epithelial cells to bring Fe-loaded transferrin from the submucosal surface to the epithelial surface is a demonstration of how microbes could play an active role in accessing host-derived metal ions and infl uence the form of available metal. Clearly this is an area that requires further investiga- tion, to determine the degree to which this type of phenomenon may impact on the availability and the form of metal ions in various niches in the host. In the gastrointestinal tract, the form and availability of metal ions will de- pend substantially on dietary intake (see Ackland et al., this volume). For in- stance, diets rich in meat will provide a ready source of heme iron that would be a preferred source of iron for both microbes and the host alike. However, the composition of the diet can also reduce the availability of metal ions by alter- ing the form; for example, phytates in grain-rich diets are known to inhibit the uptake of Zn ions . The form and availability of metal ions can be further modulated through the interplay between microbes and their host. For example, the release of the e nterobactin class of siderophores by microbes to complex available ferric iron derived from the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract can be countered by the secretion of host lipocalin 2 . The Intracellular Environment The intracellular environment of host cells has a different spectrum of metal sources for pathogens to acquire (Figure 7.2). Furthermore, metal levels will vary between the host cell cytoplasm and the various intracellular
