Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of host cells has a different spectrum of metal sources for pathogens to acquire (Figure 7.2). Furthermore, metal levels will vary between the host cell cytoplasm and the various intracellular compart- ments. Metal availability to intracellular microbes will depend on the lifestyle of the pathogen (e.g., extra- or intra-phagosomal) and their various strategies to propagate within the intracellular niches; for example, an ability to manipulate host cell Fe homeostasis to increase Fe availability (Cassat and Skaar 2013). The majority of the host heme and hemoproteins are intracellular. In addition, ferrous iron predominates in the cytoplasm. Still the host cell cytoplasm is Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 109 Tf Ferritin Zincosome Fe Tf Zn Cu CTR1 Siderophore Atox1 Microbe Cu Zn? sensed as an Fe-limited environment by microbial cells, because inorganic iron is bound in ferritin by other proteins and small molecular weight compounds. The status of iron and other metals is different within phagosomes. NRAMP1 (SLCIIA1) is thought to effl ux iron, zinc, and manganese from phagosomes, making them more metal defi cient . Controversy remains, however, about the direction of transport of these metals. It has been suggest- ed that the pH of the vacuolar compartment may determine the direction of transport of this proton-driven pump . Furthermore, the 1PMARN ATP7A Figure 7.2 Overview of metal levels and sources for intracellular pathogens. Iron-loaded transferrin (Tf) enters cells via receptor-mediated endocytosis. Iron is stored in the cytoplasm bound to transferrin, and zinc can be stored in specialized ves- icles called zincosomes. NRAMP1 localizes to the phagosmal membrane of infected macrophages, where it is thought to pump metals (iron, zinc, and manganese) out of the phagosome to starve microbes of these metals. In contrast, Cu infl ux into macrophage phagosomes is associated with increased microbicidal activity and a requirement for microbial Cu-r esistance systems. Activation of macrophages causes increased levels of the CTR1 Cu importer and localization of the ATP7A Cu pump from the trans-Golgi network to phagosomal membranes, with ATOX1 acting as a Cu metallochaperone to shuttle copper to ATP7A. Zinc may also be pumped into phagosomes as an antimicrob- ial defense against certain pathogens. Within phagosomes, some microbes (e.g., M yco- bacterium tuberculosis) can have access to recycling endosomes and thus gain access to iron from transferrin. Intracellular pathogens can also produce s iderophores which, for M. tuberculosis, can diffuse out of phagosomes and access cytoplasmic sources of iron.
