Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and thus gain access to iron from transferrin. Intracellular pathogens can also produce s iderophores which, for M. tuberculosis, can diffuse out of phagosomes and access cytoplasmic sources of iron. Other pathogens (e.g., L isteria monocytogenes) can gain access to these iron sources by escaping from the phagosome and entering the host cell cytoplasm. Some pathogens may also manipulate host cell metal homeostasis to their advantage. 110 J. S. Cavet et al. phagosomal pH may be critical for the speciation of the metal ions in this compartment. Whereas metal limitation is a primary strategy, it appears that the infl ux of some metals into microbe-containing phagosomes may be an important com- ponent of macrophage antimicrobial defenses. Certainly for copper, several different lines of research have shown that pathogens are exposed to high Cu levels in macrophage phagosomes, and Cu detoxifi cation systems are required for their survival within this compartment (White et al. 2009; Osman et al. 2010; Ward et al. 2010; Achard et al. 2012; Ding et al. 2013; Shi et al. 2014). It has also been suggested that zinc may be pumped into phagosomes as an antimicrobial defense against M . tuberculosis . Although elevated Zn levels are detected within mycobacterial-containing phagosomes, it is possible that Zn infl ux allows acidifi cation of the vacuolar compartment which leads to killing, rather than there being a direct effect of Zn toxicity on the microbe. Microbial Strategies for Obtaining Metals Microbes possess numerous strategies for obtaining metals, and these are dis- cussed in detail in the background papers (see Lemire et al., Bachmann and Weiser, Loutet et al., and Imlay, all this volume). Notably, the production of siderophores is a widely used strategy for obtaining iron, and some patho- gens may share the types of siderophore produced. Some organisms produce multiple siderophores with differing roles. Notably, K lebsiella pneumoniae produces four types of siderophores, and the phenotypes for the siderophore mutants are distinct with respect to their ability to cause respiratory tract in- fections and remove iron from transferrin (Bachman et al. 2011, 2012). The production and/or use of multiple siderophores (endogenous or produced by other microbes) can also provide pathogens with a strategy to circumvent the host’s attempt to prevent microbial Fe uptake. The production of lipocalin 2 by the host sequesters some siderophores, thereby preventing Fe a cquisition by these siderophores. However, while lipocalin 2 binds to e
