Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


prevent microbial Fe uptake. The production of lipocalin 2 by the host sequesters some siderophores, thereby preventing Fe a cquisition by these siderophores. However, while lipocalin 2 binds to e nterobactin and other phenolate-type siderophores, some bacteria, such as S almonella enterica and K. pneumoniae, glucosylate enterobactin to produce s almochelin that is not bound by lipocalin 2 . In addition, some bacteria can produce siderophores, such as p yochelin and y ersiniabactin, that are not rec- ognized by lipocalin 2 (Bachman et al. 2011; Cornelis and Dingemans 2013). Siderophores are a particularly versatile mechanism for acquiring iron in a variety of different niches. Accordingly, they are prevalent in microbes that re- side in the g astrointestinal tract and that are transmitted by the fecal-oral route. Although siderophores are a widespread mechanism for obtaining iron, there are multiple additional strategies. These include transferrin, lactoferrin, ferri- tin, and hemoglobin receptors as well as heme, ferrous, and ferric Fe transport- ers. Notably, most of the receptors for the host Fe-binding proteins or protein Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 111 complexes (transferrin, l actoferrin, h emoglobin-haptoglobin, and heme-hemo- pexin) are host specifi c and have only been found in microbes that inhabit the u pper r espiratory tract or g enitourinary tract. Pathogens which propagate with- in a specifi c niche in the host tend to have and use the transport systems that are effective within that niche. Bordetella use siderophore and heme uptake systems during different stages of upper respiratory tract infections, and there appears to be sequential expression of these systems based on environmental signals (Brickman and Armstrong 2009). In contrast, a study with Y ersinia en- terocolitica, which monitored transcriptional expression of the y ersiniabactin system and a heme transporter, found different levels of expression in different organs (blood, liver, spleen); however, both systems seemed to be responding coordinately in these niches . In Y . pestis, yersiniabactin is essential in the initial lymphatic spread and/or growth in the regional lymph node following a fl ea bite. However, after gaining access to the bloodstream, this siderophore is irrelevant to subsequent Fe acquisition and growth. In pneu- monic infections, a yersiniabactin mutant is attenuated but still lethal at higher infectious doses. However, the disease shifts from growth in the lungs and pneumonic disease to a septicemic disease (Fetherston et al. 2010; Lee-Lewis and Anderson 2010). The Yfe/Sit and Feo ferrous transporters
