Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


However, the disease shifts from growth in the lungs and pneumonic disease to a septicemic disease (Fetherston et al. 2010; Lee-Lewis and Anderson 2010). The Yfe/Sit and Feo ferrous transporters are not critical during pneumonic infection but are important during b ubonic plague. It is not clear whether two additional Y. pestis ferrous Fe transporters play a role in the lungs, or whether ferrous Fe sources are irrelevant in the lungs (Fetherston et al. 2012). In vitro studies have not shown a role for bacterial heme transporters for intracellular growth in host cells; instead some bacteria use a combination of siderophore and ferrous Fe uptake systems for intracellular Fe acquisition (Runyen-Janecky et al. 2003; Perry et al. 2007). In contrast to Fe/heme uptake systems, identifi ed bacterial Zn and Mn trans- porters show much less diversity. They primarily consist of ABC-type trans- porters, such as Z nuABC for zinc and SitABCD/YfeABCD for m anganese, as well as the NRAMP-family Mn transporter, M ntH ( Hood and Skaar 2012). A number of studies with different pathogens have shown loss of virulence when the Zn or Mn transporters are disrupted, supporting the notion that the host is also limiting for these metals (Kehl-Fie and Skaar 2010). Mutation of the two known Mn transporters (Yfe and MntH) in Y. pestis causes a loss of virulence in the mouse model of bubonic plague but not in the pneumonic plague model , again suggesting that niches have different metal availabili- ties. The neutrophil-derived protein c alprotectin (as well as other S100 family proteins), which chelates manganese and zinc, is one mechanism for withdraw- ing these metals from the sites of extracellular infections. It is likely that other Mn- and Zn-sequestering mechanisms also exist. Whereas most metal-chelat- ing compounds may primarily act to sequester metals away from microbes, they also have the potential to serve as a source of metals for microbes capable of accessing the metals from them. As such, they may provide some pathogens a competitive advantage; for example. S. enterica serovar Typhimurium is able 112 J. S. Cavet et al. to utilize calprotectin-bound zinc which enables it to outcompete the gut mi- crobiota to colonize the gut and invade . As a similar strategy, the pathogenic fungus C andida albicans secretes its own “zincophore” protein to bind and obtain zinc from the environment . The question arises as to whether pathogens differ from
