Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


strategy, the pathogenic fungus C andida albicans secretes its own “zincophore” protein to bind and obtain zinc from the environment . The question arises as to whether pathogens differ from commensals in having a greater capacity to compete for metals by possessing a greater ar- ray of metal uptake pathways. We concluded that there is no evidence to sup- port this; more detailed studies need to be undertaken, including cataloguing the array of systems used by pathogens and commensals in different niches. However, assigning organisms as commensals or pathogens can also be com- plex. Importantly, when examining metal uptake systems in microbes, multi- organism systems should be considered, as microbes rarely exist in isolation within the host. Furthermore, the extent to which variations in the total metal content of different organ systems (e.g., between the genitourinary tract, upper respiratory tract, and g astrointestinal tract) is infl uenced by the composition of the microbial communities at these locations and their array of metal acquisi- tion strategies should also be considered. Summary Whereas we accept that there are likely differences in the available sources of metals to microbes in different locations of the host, beyond the gut we largely do not know what these are: neither the metal levels nor the variety of metal- binding ligands. Direct measurements of metal availability are challenging due to limits of detection as well as diffi culties in sampling the various niches, par- ticularly for studies with humans. The use of model hosts (mammalian as well as others, such as zebrafi sh and C. elegans) offer advantages as they permit controlled studies into the effects of diet and other factors on metal sources. A potential strategy to identify and compare the various metal sources within the different host niches would be to catalog (e.g., using metagenomics) the dif- ferent metal uptake systems in the microbes that naturally inhabit them, rather than focusing on pathogens that are often only in transit through these environ- ments. Knowledge of the substrates for identifi ed metal uptake systems may yield clues as to what is being accessed. (Meta-)transcriptomic approaches can be used to monitor the temporal (and spatial) expression of metal import and export systems; however, the question arises as to whether their expression is being driven by microbial needs or their exposure to host factors in a particu- lar niche. It would be useful to combine knowledge of expression
