Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


to whether their expression is being driven by microbial needs or their exposure to host factors in a particu- lar niche. It would be useful to combine knowledge of expression studies of host metal transporters with those of microbial metal-handling systems, which could also be combined with measurements of total metal levels in tissues (e.g., by l aser ablation ICP-MS). It also may be useful to compare germ-free versus nongerm-free animals to gain an idea of the effect of resident microbes on metal availability. Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 113 Effect of the Metal Status of a Pathogen, as Derived from its Prior Environment, on its Ability to Establish an Infection or the Severity of Disease Does the previous environment of a pathogenic microbe (e.g., is it replete or deplete for certain metals) have an effect on its transmission to a host and dis- ease outcome. In other words, can microbes be primed for entry into a host by their metal status? Does Preinfection Metal Exposure Impact on Infectivity and Disease Outcome? M etal availability, whether i t is i n the essential or toxic range, has a strong impact on the transcriptome and the metabolism of pathogenic microbes. As microbial pathogens change from one environment to the other during dis- semination, metal status is retained, at least in the short term, thereby provid- ing a rheostatic physiological parameter of potential importance in infection. As many virulence factors and large-scale metabolic pathways are either de- pendent on metals for their catalytic activities and/or are under physiological control of metal-sensing systems, microbial pathogens may exhibit very dif- ferent phenotypes when confronting the host, depending on previous exposure to different metal concentrations. Furthermore, the impact of this prior metal exposure m ay vary across the different organ systems that impose different metal stresses. Alternatively, the host’s nutritional immune strategies might be, at least initially, circumvented by a suffi ciently large pool of metals, or metal d etoxifi cation systems, in the microbe. This effect is further aggravated by the presence of metal storage systems, such as bacterial ferritins or fungal vacuoles. After a period of metal surplus, starvation can likely be buffered during the early stages of an infection. This seems especially true for opportu- nistic commensal and environmental pathogens, as they are naturally exposed to metal species and concentrations that are very different from the host. With a suffi ciently large
