Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


true for opportu- nistic commensal and environmental pathogens, as they are naturally exposed to metal species and concentrations that are very different from the host. With a suffi ciently large pool of metals, growth may continue for several genera- tions in the absence of external sources due to metal partitioning to daughter cells. These few to tens of divisions may be decisive in establishing an infec- tion, or at least in allowing survival until new sources of metals are accessed. Opportunistic commensals may thus serve as a good, biologically relevant model for studying the effect of preinfection metal levels. An example of an environmentally derived human pathogen is the fungus Cryptoccocus neoformans, which in the environment can exist on the leaves of trees and grasses or in bird guano, with low- or high-metal availability, respectively . In the environment, the yeast or spore form is aerosolized and rendered available for entry into the lung, the initial site of infection in humans or other mammals. Successful colonization of the 114 J. S. Cavet et al. lung allows C. neoformans to disseminate to the bloodstream and cross the blood-brain barrier, where it causes lethal meningitis, particularly in immune- compromized individuals, but also in seemingly immunocompetent subjects. Therefore, we need to consider how the ability of organisms (such as C. neo- formans or other pathogenic microbes) to acquire metals or resist metals, at different locations in its life cycle, impacts on a successful primary infec- tion in the lung or other primary infection site. When C. neoformans enters the lung during an infection, it is engulfed by alveolar macrophages, which, among other antimicrobial effectors, use Cu t oxicity within the lumen of the phagosome as an antimicrobial weapon (Figure 7.2). For a leaf-derived infect- ing yeast form, the immediate stress arguably should be higher in this model, where the expectation is that the C. neoformans is somewhat Cu defi cient and has not primed a Cu defense response, which in this case is strongly medi- ated by the Cu-inducible, Cu-sequestering m etallothionein proteins (Ding et al. 2011, 2013). Successful colonization of the lung allows C. neoformans to escape from alveolar macrophage surveillance, disseminate to the circulation, cross the blood-brain barrier, and enter the brain where it causes lethal men- ingitis. In the central nervous system, C. neoformans produces m elanin as a virulence factor, using the Cu-dependent enzyme laccase . This need for
