Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


brain where it causes lethal men- ingitis. In the central nervous system, C. neoformans produces m elanin as a virulence factor, using the Cu-dependent enzyme laccase . This need for copper is further driven by well-characterized Cu-dependent Fe uptake permease-oxidase complexes, which serve as a major source of iron for Fe-S cluster biogenesis or as a direct catalytic cofactor for a variety of en- zymes . Consequently, as an environmental opportunistic pathogen, C. neoformans fi nds itself transitioning from a Cu o verload environ- ment to an environment where Cu acquisition is essential to thrive, once again inverting the balance between external sources and metabolic need. The acquisition of zinc by fungal and bacterial pathogens is dictated largely by high-affi nity Zn importers at the plasma membrane, the transcription of which is induced under Zn defi ciency and dampened by Zn satiety. In addition to the integral membrane Zn importers, starvation for zinc leads to the expres- sion of an auxilliary Zn acquisition system, Pra1, in the fungal gastrointestinal tract commensal and pathogen C . albicans . Pra1 protein has roles in both Zn binding and immune modulation via direct interaction with the complement system. As zinc plays a critical role in immune compe- tency, Pra1, which binds multiple Zn atoms, could in addition compromise immune function by sequestering zinc. As Pra1 expression is induced by Zn defi ciency, Zn levels encountered by C. albicans prior to the transition to the pathogenic phase may therefore play a role in the early stages of systemic infection. Furthermore, as with most pathogenic microbes, when C. albicans experiences Fe starvation it undergoes a change in carbon metabolism, away from the heavily Fe-dependent TCA cycle and oxidative phosphorylation. Alternative pathways, such as the glyoxylate cycle in fungi, are likely to be more benefi cial for survival to the antimicrobial insults in the glucose-poor environment of the phagosome during infection. In fact, C. glabrata depends Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 115 on x enosiderophores, produced by other fungi, to survive macrophage engulf- ment after being grown under conditions of low external iron, but it can be- come independent of siderophore-mediated Fe uptake in macrophages engi- neered to mimic human Fe-overload disease due to a dysfunctional Fe exporter ferroportin (Nevitt and Thiele 2011). In bacterial pathogens, Fe starvation is known to induce the expression of a plethora of virulence-associated factors, such as hemolysins in S taphylococcus
