Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Fe exporter ferroportin (Nevitt and Thiele 2011). In bacterial pathogens, Fe starvation is known to induce the expression of a plethora of virulence-associated factors, such as hemolysins in S taphylococcus aureus . The 50% lethal dose (LD ) of cells prestarved for iron is accordingly signifi cantly lower. This poses the question of where these effects may be seen in natural infections, and how they can be correctly replicated in the laboratory. The precise nature of the changes likely depends on the type of transmission and, hence, environments encountered (e.g., di- rectly from host to host, via vectors, or entering the host from the environment or a commensal stage). In Y . pestis, the pathogen is transmitted from the blood via a fl ea vector to a new host. Inside the insect gut, blood is digested, with signifi cant changes in the concentration of available iron likely ensuing (Perry et al. 1993). Most infection models are based on preculture conditions in the laboratory, which do not mimic the natural habitat or source from which the infecting organisms may derive metals in nature. Thus far, data strongly indicate that in addition to other factors (e.g., temperature, pH, and carbon sources), the metal supply of precultured pathogens should be taken into account. This will lead to infection experiments that better simulate the events in nature. As data or esti- mates on naturally occurring preinfection metal concentrations are not widely available, it would be informative to test the effect of biologically relevant metal concentrations on the outcome of laboratory infection experiments. For pathogens that spend time in the external environment, mechanisms must exist to allow metal transport to support basic metabolic needs for sur- vival. This challenge may be compounded by potential requirements for elabo- rating degradative enzymes to liberate environmental metal sources so that the metals are available to serve as substrates for cell-surface metal import mecha- nisms. The absence of these mechanisms, or of metal substrates for import, demand the elaboration of mechanisms to mobilize metals from intracellular stores such as bacterial ferritin or, in the case of fungal pathogens, from the lu- men of vacuoles for copper, iron, or zinc via dedicated transporters. The latter could serve as a buffer against vastly changing metal concentration, but data on the role of these buffers (and their capacity) in infections are for the most part still lacking. Furthermore, several mechanisms are feasible
