Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


against vastly changing metal concentration, but data on the role of these buffers (and their capacity) in infections are for the most part still lacking. Furthermore, several mechanisms are feasible for the pathogen to avoid other detrimental effects of differing pre- and peri-infection metal con- centrations. With respect to metal t oxicity, ligand-inactivated transporters may help in avoiding metal overload after a switch from relative starvation to metal surplus. The notion is that metal concentrations in microbial populations are generally Gaussian-distributed and may allow subpopulations with appropriate metal homeostasis mechanisms to cope with their previous environment. They 116 J. S. Cavet et al. may, therefore, achieve “correct” metal concentrations, which allow them to progress more easily with a productive infection. To determine the nature and effect of the infl uence of previous metal ex- posure on infections, several experimental approaches are likely to be infor- mative. For example, in vivo c ompetition experiments with deletion or trans- poson mutant libraries of pathogens grown under different, defi ned metal preconditions could help to determine the necessary genetic setup that is piv- otal to the outcome of the initial infection. The actual metal status of microbes re-isolated from the host after infection could be investigated; in combination with different preculture metal levels, this would give insight into whether or not high (or low) metal levels in the pathogen are kept within the host, so as to provide a selective advantage for growth and dissemination in the host during infection. Summary The ability to acquire or resist metals in a previous environment likely sets the stage for determining, to a signifi cant extent, the fi tness of a microbial pathogen for dissemination to additional tissues for virulence. Consequently, understanding the environments from which microbial pathogens are derived is an underappreciated, yet important area for investigation. Moreover, for microbial pathogens that possess multiple systems for m etal acquisition, such as the use of ferrous Fe importers and siderophore-mediated Fe uptake, the se- lection of which mechanisms are used in specifi c environments likely provide a mechanism for optimally positioning a pathogen for initiating successful colonization of host tissues. Clearly the metal levels of the infecting pathogen infl uence the expression of many genes, including known virulence factors. However, in laboratory infection experiments, metal levels are not controlled for normally. They may not be simulative of the environment from which the pathogen normally derives (e.g.,
