Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


known virulence factors. However, in laboratory infection experiments, metal levels are not controlled for normally. They may not be simulative of the environment from which the pathogen normally derives (e.g., gut, skin, vector), or they may have little relevance to the levels encountered by the pathogen prior to the initial host infection event. Biological relevance of these experiments may therefore be limited in this respect. In addition, for different pathogens, the metal concen- trations that precede infection, as well as their metal status, constitute an area for further investigation. With this information in hand, one could then con- sider if changes (within biologically relevant ranges) in specifi c prior metal exposure levels infl uence the course and/or outcome of an infection. Would different prior exposure levels alter the ability of pathogens to cope with se- vere changes in metal levels during the initial stages of infection, such as those occurring during an infl ammatory response? Are these changes “pre- dicted” by other external cues before the infection? Does prior metal expo- sure generally serve as a signal in itself for induction of metal-independent virulence factors? Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 117 The Interplay between Metals and the Microbiota Here we focused primarily on the infl uence of the microbiota composition on metal availability in different body environments and vice versa. Related topics were also discussed in other groups, with some degree of overlap (see Rehder et al., Ackland et al., and Maret et al., this volume). The complexity of the different microbial communities that exist at different anatomical sites within the body has been highlighted by The Human Microbiome project, sup- ported by the U.S. National Institutes of Health Common Fund (NIH HMP Working Group 2009). Metals and the Microbiota Evidence that a host’s microbiota can contribute to human physiology and im- mune status has been generated from a range of studies. With regard to metals and the microbiota, future research should be aimed at examining (a) whether the microbiota infl uences the bioavailability of dietary metals and (b) whether dietary or environmental intake of metals infl uences the structure and function of the microbiota (see Ackland et al., this volume). Some early work addressed the infl uence of the microbiota on tissue Fe dis- tribution using germ-free mice . Thus, the above questions need to be revisited with state of the art sequencing, which provides rich analy- sis and
