Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


microbiota on tissue Fe dis- tribution using germ-free mice . Thus, the above questions need to be revisited with state of the art sequencing, which provides rich analy- sis and defi nition of complex communities, along with new knowledge about how the microbiota infl uences development of the immune system (Arrieta and Finlay 2012), and susceptibility to colonization by pathogens (Buffi e and Pamer 2013). Initial goals should be to discern correlations between the mi- crobiota content and metal availability in the host and, more importantly, to determine the underlying mechanisms and consequences of those correlations. It is vital to get beyond simply counting numbers and extend any fi ndings to uncover mechanisms that relate to the microbiota. This would likely include investigations into the meta-t ranscriptomics and metabolic output of these complex communities in relation to metal homeostasis. There are already studies that show specifi c effects of metals in modulating microbial communities and the role of the host in the competition for these micronutrients. For example, the expression of a high-affi nity ABC transporter for Zn uptake by C ampylobacter jejuni is required for its survival in chicken intestines in the presence of normal microbiota, but not when chickens are reared under germ-free conditions with a more restricted microbiota (Gielda and DiRita 2012). The ability to survive was associated with the presence of numerous Zn-binding proteins in the intestines of conventional chicks, which were absent from limited-microbiota chicks. This study demonstrates that the microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract stimulates a reduction in Zn availability and, as such, restricts the growth of bacteria that lack the ability to compete using high-affi nity transporters. In this regard, human polymorphisms in Z ip4 118 J. S. Cavet et al. affect Zn uptake in the small bowel (Lichten and Cousins 2009), but whether or not this is exacerbated or otherwise infl uenced by the microbiota is unclear. A comprehensive picture of how host and microbial factors in the gut affect metal dynamics in the host is lacking (NIH HMP Working Group 2009). Given the signifi cance of the upper intestine on metal uptake in the body, research on how the microbiota might contribute to this process should focus on the small bowel inhabitants, without ignoring those of the colon and even feces, where much microbiota work related to pathogenesis of infection has been focused. The infl uence of any correlations that are
