Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


inhabitants, without ignoring those of the colon and even feces, where much microbiota work related to pathogenesis of infection has been focused. The infl uence of any correlations that are discovered on the susceptibility to, or outcome of, infection should be assessed in human populations and mod- el systems to ensure that both clinical correlations and underlying mechanisms are addressed. The burden of metal defi ciencies in particular populations (e.g., Zn defi ciencies in Pakistan and elsewhere) is a well-recognized issue (Akhtar 2013; Bhutta et al. 2013), and these populations would serve logically as the basis for human-centered research on any correlations with the microbiota. Laboratory models such as the mouse or z ebrafi sh will ultimately be impor- tant for understanding basic mechanisms of how diet and microbiota interact. Veterinary research on growth-promoting use of Zn oxide includes, for ex- ample, investigations into its effects on stimulating benefi cial microbes within the pig ileum . Whether or not this correlates to changes in susceptibility to infection has yet to be determined, but such research might provide data for hypotheses to test in human populations. Some s kin pathologies arise from metal defi ciencies (Ackland and Michalczyk 2006), and Zn replacement in otherwise defi cient populations has had rapid therapeutic effect on r espiratory symptoms, in addition to diarrheal symptoms . Thus, research into relationships between the micro- biota and metal homeostasis, and their potential effects on infectious disease, should also consider the skin and respiratory microbiota in addition to gut mi- crobiota. It is likely that metal acquisition and utilization by these communities relies on access to host sources, whereas the microbes in the gut could addi- tionally obtain these micronutrients directly from the diet. A further consideration is the status of the colonized host surface. Infl ammatory states will affect the availability of metals, the infl ux of h ost defense factors that are dependent on metals, and the composition of the mi- crobiota and metal utilization by these populations. In general, acquisition of metals has been studied in pathogens, or opportunistic pathogens, which are adept at handling the infl ammatory states they encounter in the host during disease. Our understanding of metal dynamics in organisms in a strict com- mensal relationship with their host, and especially complex communities of commensal organisms, is far less complete. Based on estimates of the size and complexity of the microbiota, this
