Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


strict com- mensal relationship with their host, and especially complex communities of commensal organisms, is far less complete. Based on estimates of the size and complexity of the microbiota, this population has the potential to act as a signifi cant reservoir/requirement for total metal species associated with a host. Microbial systems for sensing and acquiring iron, zinc, and manganese ap- pear to be highly conserved. Transcriptome and integrative metagenome and Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 119 metabolome studies of the microbiota are therefore likely to be informative about whether a host environment is metal replete or deplete. Summary Metals appear to affect the size and composition of the microbiota. There is a growing appreciation for how alterations in the microbiota affect various infectious and noninfectious disease states. As these studies defi ne specifi c mi- crobial species and factors that impact disease, it will be important to defi ne the role of metals in infl uencing these effects of the microbiota. How Metal Restriction and Oversupply Can Kill or Inhibit the Growth of Microbes What are the mechanisms by which exposure of microbes to m etal excess or metal defi ciency can inhibit microbial growth or cause death? When consider- ing this question, we need to keep in mind that excess of one metal may also induce defi ciency of a different metal. Hence the interplay between different metals is important. How Do Metals Poison Microbial Cells? In our discussions of the effects of metal restriction and metal oversupply, we considered the effects on a model organism, E . coli, so as to lay out the type of information that allows one to focus on this topic. The Effects of Metal Restriction E. coli growth fails upon Fe r estriction due to loss of heme and Fe-S cluster synthesis. Manganese is used only as a substitute for iron when the latter is unavailable; thus Mn restriction is consequential only in that circumstance. Zinc is much more broadly used, yet restriction has been diffi cult to study due to trace Zn contamination of culture systems. Copper activates very few enzymes, and these are useful but dispensable (at least in artifi cial culture); thus restriction is relatively benign. However, it is possible that in certain envi- ronments these enzymes become critical; examples are C u/Zn-S OD to protect against high extracellular reactive oxygen species (Craig and Slauch 2009). In contrast to E.
