Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


that in certain envi- ronments these enzymes become critical; examples are C u/Zn-S OD to protect against high extracellular reactive oxygen species (Craig and Slauch 2009). In contrast to E. coli, other bacteria may rely more heavily on manganese (e.g., Bradyrhizobium japonicum; Hohle and O’Brian 2012) and/or less on iron (e.g., Borrelia burgdorferi; Posey and Gherardini 2000). Collectively, the impact of metal restriction likely varies from organism to organism, according to how (or if) the organism uses a particular metal. For an individual organism, this may also depend on its immediate environment. 120 J. S. Cavet et al. How an Overabundance of Intracellular Metals Impedes Cell Growth Excess iron leads to Fenton chemistry that generates hydroxyl radicals; its ma- jor effect is to accelerate mutagenesis. The level of damage, however, does not rise to the point of growth inhibition, let alone death. In E. coli, excess manganese blocks h eme synthesis by competitively inhibiting f errochelatase. Since the requirement for heme arises from its use in cytochrome oxidase, Mn overloading blocks growth under oxic, but not anoxic, conditions. Iron can be outcompeted by excess zinc in Fe-using nonredox enzymes. Copper poisons solvent-exposed Fe-S clusters. Additional mechanisms may also exist but have not b een elaborated. The targets in E . coli are, however, not universal: lactic acid bacteria, for example, lack both heme and Fe-S clusters and are therefore resistant to manganese and possibly copper. Thus, some metals damage narrow subclasses of enzymes, and organisms which lack these may prove substan- tially resistant. More research needs to be done to understand the mechanisms of metal intoxication of various pathogens. Although E. coli has provided in- valuable information, it is not a universal model. The Effect of Metal Import and Export Systems It is notable that genetic mutations in metal import and export systems are often needed to establish metal restriction and m etal overloading. Both metal restric- tion and overloading are common experiences for many microbes. Many bio- logical habitats are metal limited. Conversely, when a metal-limited bacterium moves from a metal-poor habitat to a metal-rich environment, the cytoplasmic metal levels are likely to overshoot, because the extant import systems are not allosterically controlled. This is quickly corrected by the induced synthesis of export pumps, some of which are encoded by plasmids that enable growth in metal-rich habitats simultaneously with the repression of import pumps. Transient overshooting is not a
