Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


induced synthesis of export pumps, some of which are encoded by plasmids that enable growth in metal-rich habitats simultaneously with the repression of import pumps. Transient overshooting is not a problem for the microbe, since the poisoning mechanisms are readily reversed when metal levels fall. Inhibition of heme synthesis and of Fe enzymes is relieved when manganese and zinc dissociate from the enzymes that they are inhibiting; as Cu levels decline, the damaged Fe-S clusters are repaired. Thus, for overload- ing to have an important effect on bacterial populations, the metal stress would have to be persistent and of a severity that cannot be corrected by homeostatic responses. Metal importers with surface-exposed metal-binding ligands may be more vulnerable to m etal poisoning than cytoplasmic enzymes. The cytoplasm has an abundance of low molecular weight metabolites, such as cysteine, that con- tinuously facilitate the extraction of incorrect metals from inhibited enzymes. However, such compounds are less likely to be present in the periplasm or the extracellular environment to provide similar protection to extra-cytoplasmic metal-binding sites. Thus, for example, the inhibition of a Mn importer by Trace Metals in Host–Microbe Interactions 121 zinc may not easily be reversed; irreversible inhibition of the S treptococcus pneumoniae ABC-type Mn importer by Zn binding has recently been reported . The impact of fl uctuations in the bioavailability of one metal can also depend on a second metal, if both are able to perform equiva- lent functions. For example, because Mn import can correct for Fe defi ciency, the absence of both metals can be synergistic. Conversely, since excess zinc competes for the Fe sites of enzymes, excess zinc can exacerbate Fe defi ciency. Exposure to Metal Surfaces Solid metallic copper, Cu(0), or silver is able to kill many/most microbes rap- idly through surface contact. This property has been exploited in the design of antimicrobial surfaces (e.g., door handles, Cu pipes, incubator linings, cath- eters), which reduce the incidence of nosocomial infection. The effect seems dissimilar to what solubilized copper can achieve, but the underlying molecu- lar mechanism of metallic Cu toxicity is currently unknown. Nonnutritional Metals Nonnutritional metals have been used to treat microbial infection. In the pre- antibiotic era, toxic compounds such as mercurials and arsenicals were used to treat infections such as syphilis. More recently, silver has been exploited for its antimicrobial properties, for example, in wound dressings (Mijnendonckx et al. 2013). Gallium
