Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and arsenicals were used to treat infections such as syphilis. More recently, silver has been exploited for its antimicrobial properties, for example, in wound dressings (Mijnendonckx et al. 2013). Gallium has also been explored as an antibacterial agent, with some success demonstrated in treating P seudomonas aeruginosa lung infec- tions . Metallotherapeutic agents are now being explored to treat parasitic infections, including using ruthenium, r hodium, and gold de- rivatives of c hloroquine as antimalarials (Navarro and Visbal, this volume). However, the antimicrobial effects of these metals are largely unknown. Summary Since the effects of metals are directed toward the activities of enzymes, metal availability has the greatest impact on growing organisms that must maintain high metabolic fl uxes. Actively growing organisms are more sensitive to iron, which can catalyze Fenton chemistry on hydrogen peroxide, a by-product of metabolism. Static biofi lms, for example, are less likely to be affected. It ap- pears that the vulnerability of microbes to both metal limitation and metal tox- icity is exploited as part of the host’s antimicrobial arsenal. Whereas the effects of metal overloading and underloading are usually bacteriostatic, in a host this might be good enough, since nongrowing organisms can then be cleared by the host’s immune defenses. For some metals, such as arsenic, the toxic effects are still unknown, and further research is needed to understand these mechanisms. 122 J. S. Cavet et al. Knowledge of how metals kill cells can be used to design more optimal metal- based antimicrobial treatments. Acknowledgments We would like to thank the members of the other discussion groups for their contribu- tions to the discussions and writing of this report. Host–Microbe Interactions: The Host Perspective Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging Impact on Infectious Diseases Inga Wessels Abstract This chapter provides a summary of the functions of essential metallic elements in human metabolism and during infectious diseases as well as their homeostasis during development, m aturation, and aging. A list of food sources as well as information on the effects of defi ciency and excess is provided for each metallic element. As concentra- tions of metallic contaminants in the environment rise, brief characterizations of nones- sential but biologically relevant metallic environmental contaminants have been added. Cases of under-, mal- and overnutrition are increasing worldwide. In combination with fecting societal and health systems. Potential ways of approaching this problem are suggested and discussed. Introduction Metals
