Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


con- centration of free, ionized Co2+ is estimated at 5–12% of the total Co con- centration . Cobalt is acutely toxic in larger doses, and cumulative, long-term exposure (even at a low level) can give rise to adverse health effects related to various organs and tissues (see reviews by Barceloux 1999; Lauwerys and Lison 1994). Recent concern has been raised in terms of possible systemic health effects that result from elevated blood Co concentra- tions in patients with Co-containing hip implants . Adverse effects may impact the thyroid gland (inhibition of tyrosine iodinase, goiter, and myxedema), lungs (a sthma, hard-metal disease), skin ( allergic con- tact dermatitis), and the immune system . Cobalt metal and salts are also genotoxic; this is primarily caused by oxidative DNA damage through reactive oxygen species, perhaps combined with inhibition of DNA repair. Of note, evidence for carcinogenicity of Co metal and Co sulfate is con- sidered suffi cient in experimental animals but is not yet considered adequate 128 I. Wessels in humans. Interestingly, some of the toxic effects of cobalt have recently been connected to disturbances of calcium metabolism. More research is needed to increase understanding of the mechanisms that lead to the strong toxicity of cobalt in humans. Copper C opper plays a critical role in human metabolism as a cofactor for several cu- pric enzymes, including c ytochrome c oxidase, lysyl oxidase, tyrosinase, C u/ Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD), and ferroxidases (Pena et al. 1999; Prohaska and Gybina 2004; Shim and Harris 2003; Appendix 8.1). Copper is especially important for adequate uptake of iron by the body as well as for a functioning redox system (Cabrera et al. 2008; Appendix 8.1). Copper is a potentially toxic metal because of its role in the redox cycle and in supporting Fenton chemistry, which leads to the production of free radicals (Halliwell and Gutteridge 1984). Therefore, Cu homeostasis is tightly regu- lated. After being absorbed in the intestine, copper is exported from entero- cytes into the bloodstream (Hamza et al. 2003; Nyasae et al. 2007). Membrane transporters for copper include CTR1, D MT1, and the Cu “pumps” ATP7A and ATP7B. Liver ATP7B is particularly important in helping mammals, such as rats and humans, eliminate excess copper effi ciently in bile in a relatively non- reabsorbable form. In plasma, copper is primarily transported by c eruloplas- min and a lbumin . Defects in ATP7A ( Menkes
