Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


copper effi ciently in bile in a relatively non- reabsorbable form. In plasma, copper is primarily transported by c eruloplas- min and a lbumin . Defects in ATP7A ( Menkes disease) or ATP7B (W ilson disease) cause Cu accumulation in organs (liver) and result in severe embryonic malformation or are lethal to embryos . Dietary Cu defi ciency during embryonic development can be teratogenic and embryotoxic. Mouse embryos with swollen hind brains and offspring with severe neurological impairment and organogenesis defects in multiple tissues (severe connective tissue abnormalities, skeletal defects, lung abnormalities, etc.) have been observed in the offspring of Cu-defi cient dams (Keen et al. 1998). The extent and timing of Cu defi ciency dictate the severity and tissue specifi city of the effects on the embryo, fetus, and newborn. Proper transfer of copper from the mother to the developing embryo and neonate is of criti- cal importance, if neurological abnormalities and growth retardation are to be avoided . Aging has not been associated with signifi cant changes in the requirement for ized elderly have not show an increased demand for copper, in contrast to Zn lev- els, which drop signifi cantly and need to be corrected . Measurement of Cu status in humans is diffi cult. Moreover, many factors (e.g., zinc, carbohydrates, and v itamin C intake) affect Cu bioavailability, thus making it hard to establish a requirement for copper (Table 8.1). Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging 129 Iron Iron is the most abundant t ransition metal in the human body: approximately 4–5 g are present in a normal human adult (weight of 70 kg). The importance of well-defi ned amounts of iron for the survival, growth, replication, and dif- ferentiation in humans is well established. Iron is an essential component of proteins involved in oxygen transport (Andrews 1999; Appendix 8.1). A defi - ciency of iron limits oxygen delivery to cells, resulting in fatigue, poor work performance, and decreased immunity (Panel on Micronutrients et al. 2001). Conversely, excess iron can result in toxicity and even death . There are two forms of dietary iron: heme (Fe bound to heme proteins) and nonheme. Sources of nonheme iron are plant foods, such as lentils and beans . Heme iron can be found in animal foods, such as red meats, fi sh, and poultry, and is absorbed better than nonheme iron. For humans, heme iron, which is derived
