Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Heme iron can be found in animal foods, such as red meats, fi sh, and poultry, and is absorbed better than nonheme iron. For humans, heme iron, which is derived from hemoglobin in red blood cells, is of great impor- tance as it delivers oxygen to cells. Iron is mainly absorbed via a transporter protein: the DMT1, which facili- tates uptake of other trace metals, with both positive (Mn, Cu, Co, Zn) and negative (Cd, lead) effects. Within the enterocyte, iron is released via f erropor- tin into the bloodstream where it is then bound by the transport glycoprotein (or transferrin). Approximately 0.1% of the total body iron circulates in bound form to transferrin. Most absorbed iron is utilized in bone marrow for eryth- ropoiesis. About 10–20% of absorbed iron goes into a storage pool in cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system, particularly fi xed macrophages, and is recycled into erythropoiesis. This provides a balance between the storage and use of iron in the body. Iron absorption is regulated by dietary and storage mechanisms. If stores are full, hepcidin is released from the liver, causing enterocytes to retain ab- sorbed iron. A drop in body iron diminishes hepcidin, resulting in release of absorbed iron into circulation by the intestinal mucosa. Diet composition may also infl uence Fe absorption. Citrate and ascorbate can form complexes with iron that increase absorption, whereas tannates (tea), calcium, polyphe- nols, and phytates (legumes, whole grains) can decrease absorption (Panel on Micronutrients 2001; Hunt et al. 1994; Samman et al. 2001). Greater Fe uti- lization during growth in childhood, elevated Fe loss through minor hemor- rhages or menstruation in women, as well as a greater need for iron during p regnancy can increase the effi ciency of dietary Fe absorption to 20% (Allen 2002; Cogswell et al. 2003; see also Table 8.1). Iron defi ciency is the most frequent nutritional problem in the world, af- fecting 24% of the global population: approximately 4–10% in developed countries, rising dramatically to about 40% in developing countries (Baran 2004). Pregnant women, women with heavy menstrual losses, preterm and low birth weight infants, older infants and toddlers, teenage girls, and people with chronic infections, infl ammatory, or malignant disorders (e.g., a rthritis 130 I. Wessels and cancer) are at greatest risk of developing F e-defi ciency anemia because they have the greatest loss or need for iron (Allen 2002; Cogswell
