Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


a rthritis 130 I. Wessels and cancer) are at greatest risk of developing F e-defi ciency anemia because they have the greatest loss or need for iron (Allen 2002; Cogswell et al. 2003; see also Table 8.1). Signs of Fe-defi ciency anemia include fatigue, weakness, decreased work and school performance, slow cognitive and social devel- opment during childhood, diffi culty maintaining body temperature, and de- creased immune function. The latter increases the susceptibility to infections, such as glossitis or an infl amed tongue (Appendix 8.1; Allen 2002; Panel on Micronutrients et al. 2001). Aging has been widely documented to be associ- ated with d yshomeostasis of Fe metabolism and regulation in both rodents and humans. This process adversely affects muscle strength, physical per- formance, cognition, and longevity. Underlying mechanisms remain to be clarifi ed. Iron-related disorders include A lzheimer disease, Parkinson disease, Friedreich’s ataxia, and r etinal disease. Despite the prevalence and adverse well defi ned and many questions remain to be answered (reviewed in Xu et al. 2012). Considerable potential exists for F e toxicity because very little iron is excret- ed from the body. Excessive iron can accumulate acutely or chronically in tissues and organs. Acute Fe poisoning is mainly seen in children. Toxicity-producing gastrointestinal symptoms, including vomiting and diarrhea, occur with inges- tion of 20 mg of elemental iron per kg of body weight. If ca. 60 mg per kg body weight are ingested, systemic toxicity occurs. Early signs of Fe poisoning (with- in six hours after ingestion) include vomiting, diarrhea, fever, h yperglycemia, and l eukocytosis. Later signs include hypotension, metabolic acidosis, lethargy, seizures, organ damage, and coma (Madiwale and Liebelt 2006). Hereditary hemochromatosis (HHC), due to mutations in the HFE gene, is an example of an autosomal recessive disorder of Fe metabolism. For Caucasian populations in Northern Europe, incidence of HHC is between 1:200 and 1:500. Persons with HHC absorb dietary iron at two to three times the normal rate. I ron deposits in many organs and affects their function, pre- sumably by direct toxic effect. The major affected organs are the liver (cirrho- sis), heart (cardiomyopathy), pancreas (d iabetes mellitus), skin (pigmentation), joints (polyarthropathy), and gonads (hypogonadotrophic, hypogonadism). However, in the absence of a family history or genetic testing, HHC would not be suspected. Therapeutic phlebotomy to remove excess iron is used as treatment. The most common causes of death in individuals with HHC
