Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


family history or genetic testing, HHC would not be suspected. Therapeutic phlebotomy to remove excess iron is used as treatment. The most common causes of death in individuals with HHC are hepatocellular carcinoma associated with cirrhosis, hepatic failure, and cardiac failure (Crownover and Covey 2013). Manganese Manganese was fi rst found as a constituent of animal tissues in 1913, although a state of Mn defi ciency was not described until 1931. Its oxidation state ranges between –3 and +7. Over time Mn2+ (the only form absorbed by humans) is Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging 131 oxidized to Mn3+ (the oxidative state) in plasma. The human body contains ap- proximately 10–20 mg of manganese: 25–40% is present in bone whereas 5–8 mg is turned over on a daily basis. Manganese is essential as a cofactor for the metalloenzymes SOD, xanthine oxidase, arginase, galactosyltransferase, and pyruvate carboxylase . Under normal circumstances, dietary manganese is the main route of ex- posure for most people; however, water and atmospheric contamination can also be an exposure route . Homeostasis is achieved by the tightly controlled regulation of Mn absorption in the intestine and the inducible bili- ary excretion of manganese . Dietary manganese is absorbed by a diffusion mechanism as well as a transport mechanism, both of which are rapidly saturable. Approximately 6–16% of dietary manganese is absorbed ; absorption decreases in the presence of a large c alcium load. After absorption into the portal circulation, manganese remains either free or bound, preferably to transferrin, 2-macroglobulin, and a lbumin. All three are rapidly taken up, primarily by the liver but also by the pancreas and kidney. Metabolically active tissues with high numbers of mitochondria and pigmented structures appear to have the greatest concentrations of manganese. Excretion occurs primarily through the bile and, as such, nearly all manganese is excreted in the feces . Despite its essentiality, excessive Mn levels are toxic to the central nervous system. Manganese has been identifi ed as an occupational health hazard for miners, battery manufacturers, and automotive repair workers. Pathological Mn concentrations lead to a neurological disorder, called manganism, which is characterized by early psychotic symptoms, frequently followed by chronic symptoms similar to Parkinson disease . Manganese is essential for proper fetal development and other important aspects of metabolism . The fi ndings of two recent studies (see Wood 2009) indicate that lower maternal blood manganese is associated
