Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


essential for proper fetal development and other important aspects of metabolism . The fi ndings of two recent studies (see Wood 2009) indicate that lower maternal blood manganese is associated with fetal intrauterine growth retardation, lower birth weight, and higher neo- natal morbidity and mortality. Additional basic studies of maternal and fetal Mn physiology are needed. In experimental animals, Mn defi ciency is associated with impaired growth, skeletal defects, reduced reproductive function, abnormal glucose metabolism, and altered lipid and carbohydrate metabolism, whereas excess manganese can induce adverse neurological, reproductive, and r espiratory effects (Wood 2009). In the elderly, it has been reported that Mn deposits in the basal ganglia, especially the globus pallidus, and excessive levels of this metal can induce symptoms similar to Parkinson disease . In addition, the progression of cognitive decline among the elderly in this study has been associated with increased levels of copper and manganese (Ghazali et al. 2013). 132 I. Wessels Molybdenum M olybdenum was recognized as essential for human xanthine oxidase activity in 1953 and for sulfi te oxidase activity in 1971. The concentration of molybde- num in foods refl ects levels in the soil and irrigation water in which they were grown. Rich sources include legumes, grains, and nuts. Lower amounts are found in animals, fruits, and vegetables (Eckhert 2012; Appendix 8.1). Molybdenum is rapidly absorbed and excreted from the kidney, with reten- tion regulated primarily by urinary excretion. Physiologically relevant oxida- tion states for molybdenum are between +4 and +6. Molybdenum accumulates as the molybdopterin cofactor in the liver, kidney, adrenal gland, and bone at concentrations that range from 0.1 to 1 mg/g wet weight . Molybdenum serves an essential role in the nitrogen cycle: it is a cofactor of molybdoenzymes which are involved in nitrogen fi xation and nitrate reduc- tase, an enzyme required for the conversion of nitrate to ammonia. Another im- portant Mo function in mammalian systems is the transfer of oxygen to a two- electron substrate using one-electron-transferring compounds, such as fl avin adenine dinucleotide. Three mammalian hydroxylases are molybdoenzymes (Mendel and Bittner 2006): mitochondrial sulfi te oxidase, xanthine oxidase, and aldehyde oxidase. Molybdenum toxicity has been induced in rats where it was shown to cause renal insuffi ciency. In rabbits, it induced weight loss and histopathologic changes in the kidney and liver . In humans, a case of Mo toxic- ity may have occurred in 1961,
