Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


insuffi ciency. In rabbits, it induced weight loss and histopathologic changes in the kidney and liver . In humans, a case of Mo toxic- ity may have occurred in 1961, causing gout-like symptoms and abnormalities of the gastrointestinal tract, liver, and kidneys . Genetic and nutritional defi ciencies of molybdenum have been reported but are rare. Genetic sulfi te oxidase defi ciency was described, for example, by Irreverre et al. (1967). It resulted from the inability to form the Mo coenzyme despite the presence of adequate molybdenum. The defi ciency caused intel- lectual disability, seizures, opisthotonus, and lens dislocation (Bayram et al. 2013). Molybdenum defi ciency resulting in sulfi te toxicity occurred in a pa- tient who was receiving long-term total parenteral nutrition. Symptoms were tachycardia, tachypnea, headache, nausea, vomiting, and coma. Laboratory tests showed high levels of sulfi te and xanthine and low levels of sulfate and uric acid in the blood and urine. Administered intravenously, daily doses of 300 μg of ammonium molybdate IV caused dramatic recovery . Selenium S elenium is an essential micronutrient and exists in two forms: inorganic (sel- enate and selenite) and organic (selenomethionine and selenocysteine). Both have dietary sources. Selenium functions through selenoproteins and plays critical roles in reproduction, thyroid hormone metabolism, DNA synthesis, and protection from oxidative damage and infection (Hill et al. 2012; Sunda Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging 133 2012; Appendix 8.1). Some tissues (e.g., testis, kidney, and bone marrow) syn- thesize s elenoproteins for export and thus have greater requirements for sele- nium than other tissues. Intestinal absorption of selenium is not regulated; in plasma, selenium is mostly bound and transported by Se-binding protein 1. In addition, the Se con- tent of the body is regulated by hepatic production of methylated Se compounds, which are excreted predominantly into the urine . Skeletal muscle is the major site of Se storage, accounting for approximate- ly 28–46% of the total Se pool . Recent changes in the Se me- tabolism can be analyzed via blood or urine samples; hair or nails provide good sources for long-term tests. The brain must have a reliable supply of selenium to be viable and exhibits high priority over the body’s Se supply and retention under conditions of dietary Se defi ciency (Steinbrenner and Sies 2013). Selenium defi ciency produces biochemical changes that might predispose people under additional stresses to develop certain illnesses or
