Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


retention under conditions of dietary Se defi ciency (Steinbrenner and Sies 2013). Selenium defi ciency produces biochemical changes that might predispose people under additional stresses to develop certain illnesses or heart failure (Kucharzewski et al. 2002; Saliba et al. 2010; Appendix 8.1). It is also as- sociated with male i nfertility and might play a role in K ashin-Beck disease, a type of osteoarthritis occurring in certain low Se areas of China, Tibet, and Siberia . Iodine defi ciency may be exacerbated by Se defi ciency, potentially increasing the risk of cretinism in infants . Risks for Se defi ciency include populations living in Se-defi cient regions, dialysis pa- tients, and individuals with H IV. In preterm babies, low selenium is associated with an increased risk of complications, such as chronic neonatal l ung disease and retinopathy of prematurity . C ancer, c ardiovascular diseases, cognitive decline, and thyroid disease have also been connected to a disturbance in Se metabolism. Serum Se concentrations decline with age. Marginal or defi cient Se con- centrations might be associated with a ge-related declines in brain function, possibly due to decreases in selenium’s antioxidant activity (Shahar et al. 2010). Selenium status should be controlled regularly and corrected through supplementation. Zinc Zinc is an essential metal involved in numerous aspects of cellular metabolism. Required for the catalytic activity of approximately 300 enzymes, it plays a role in immune function, protein synthesis, wound healing, DNA synthesis, and cell division (Haase et al. 2006; Haase and Rink 2013; Appendix 8.1). Zinc also supports normal growth and development during pregnancy, childhood, and adolescence (Maret and Sandstead 2006) and is required for a proper sense of taste and smell (Prasad 2013; Appendix 8.1). The human body contains 2–3 g Zn2+, concentrated primarily in the liver, kidneys, pancreas, eyes, and bone. Daily, 0.1% of body zinc is exchanged (Maret and Sandstead 2006). Because no major storage organs for zinc exist, a 134 I. Wessels continuous nutritional supply is needed to cover Zn2+ requirememts . Following its uptake by the small intestine, the distribution of Zn2+ is carried out through plasma, where it is bound by proteins, mostly albumin (Scott and Bradwell 1983). Cellular Zn2+ is distributed in the nucleus (30–40%), membrane (10%), and cytoplasm (50%). The latter contains membrane-enclosed structures rich in zinc, so-called zincosomes (Haase and Rink 2013). Remaining cytoplasmic zinc is mostly bound to proteins, especially metallothioneins. Zinc
