Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


membrane (10%), and cytoplasm (50%). The latter contains membrane-enclosed structures rich in zinc, so-called zincosomes (Haase and Rink 2013). Remaining cytoplasmic zinc is mostly bound to proteins, especially metallothioneins. Zinc homeostasis in the human body is regulated by 14 Zip (Zrt/Irt-like) proteins, which increase the amount of zinc in the cell cytoplasm, and 10 ZnTs (Z n transporters), which decrease cytoplasmic Zn concentrations. There is considerable cell-specifi c expression of some of the transporters, which are dynamically regulated in re- sponse to Zn status and endocrine and cytokine signaling. Expression of these transporters can also regulate signal transduction via the level of intracellular zinc (Haase and Rink 2009). Although excessive Zn intake is very rare, recent estimates indicate that Zn defi ciency affects over 17% of the world’s population (Wessells and Brown 2012). The main cause of Zn defi ciency is malnutrition; however, disease and aging may also play a role. Phytates, which are present in whole grain breads, cereals, legumes, and other foods, bind zinc and inhibit its absorption . The predomi- nantly wheat diet in the Middle East contains high quantities of phytate and fi ber, which reduce Zn and Fe availability increasing the risk for Zn defi ciency . Symptoms of Zn defi ciency include impaired growth and devel- opment, impotence, loss of appetite, d iarrhea, hypogonadism in males, eye and skin lesions, weight loss, mental lethargy, dermatitis, delayed wound healing, alopecia (hair loss), various neurological symptoms, and impaired effective- ness of the immune system, leading to a higher susceptibility to infections (Wang and Busbey 2005; Maret and Sandstead 2006; Maret 2012; Appendix 8.1). Zinc defi ciency has been associated with birth defects and low birth weight, impaired learning, as well as delayed sexual development. Depending on the extent and timing of the defi ciency, embryotoxicity may also occur . S upplementation studies show a signifi cant 14% reduc- tion in preterm births in women from low-income settings, but no effect on low birth weight . A crodermatitis enteropathica (mutation in Zip4) is a rare hereditary autosomal recessive disease of Zn defi ciency. It leads to severe immunological consequences, including thymic atrophy, decreased lymphocyte counts and function, and death from infections. Mandatory clini- cal manifestations are skin changes, chronic diarrhea, and alopecia. Treatment with zinc is necessary to maintain life and reverses the symptoms (Haase and Rink 2009). A decline of Zn status with age has been
