Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


changes, chronic diarrhea, and alopecia. Treatment with zinc is necessary to maintain life and reverses the symptoms (Haase and Rink 2009). A decline of Zn status with age has been established, and a correlation be- tween Zn status and immune function in the elderly seems to exist. The ques- tion remains whether Zn defi ciency is caused by infections that occur more fre- quently in elderly people, thus leading to a subsequent loss of zinc, or whether Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging 135 aging poses a risk of becoming Zn defi cient, thus leading to immunosenes- cence and increased susceptibility to infectious diseases. Diseases associated with disturbed Zn homeostasis include diarrhea, common cold, age-related macular degeneration, and Cu defi ciency (Wintergerst et al. 2007; Caruso et al. 2007; Chong et al. 2007; Whittaker 1998; Willis et al. 2005). Metallic Elements with Suggested Essentiality Arsenic Exposure to the metalloid a rsenic occurs daily due to its environmental per- vasiveness. Arsenic presents as inorganic arsenate (iAsV), in most cases, or as inorganic arsenite (iAsIII), when anaerobic conditions are present in drinking water. Despite arsenic’s reputation as a poison, it actually has fairly low toxic- ity compared to other metals, although chronic exposure raises concern about its carcinogenicity. In fact, arsenic may even be essential and functional in humans in very small amounts, as it has been shown to be essential in rats and other animals. However, benefi cial effects in humans have not yet been defi ned . At least 90% of ingested iAsV and iAsIII are absorbed from the intestine and excreted primarily in the urine. Arsenic is mainly metabolized in the liver, with inorganic arsenic converted to monomethyl- and dimethylarsenicals by As methyltransferase . It has been reported that concentra- tions of iAs peak in the liver and kidney one hour after oral administration of iAsV, with dimethylarsinic acid then becoming the predominant form in the liver four hours after administration (Watanabe and Hirano 2013; Kenyon et al. 2005). Even if arsenic is not actively stored, it accumulates in bone, teeth, skin, hair, nails, and internal organs. On average, there is about 10–20 mg of arsenic in the human body; higher amounts may accumulate when kidney function is decreased. Normally, absorption of arsenic is fairly low (< 5%) as most is eliminated in urine and feces. Arsenic is considered carcinogenic and has been related to the lung, kidney,
