Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


decreased. Normally, absorption of arsenic is fairly low (< 5%) as most is eliminated in urine and feces. Arsenic is considered carcinogenic and has been related to the lung, kidney, bladder, and skin disorders. It is also toxic to developmental and reproductive systems . Immunotoxic, biochemical, and cellular tox- icities cause serious diseases such as h yperkeratosis, b lackfoot disease, vascu- lar diseases, and cancers . In several epidemiologic studies (e.g., Bloom et al. 2010), maternal ex- posure to high concentrations of inorganic arsenic in naturally contaminated drinking groundwater sources has been associated with an increased risk for the spontaneous loss of pregnancies. Decreased fetal weight and malforma- tion have also been reported. In neonates, As exposure causes encephaly, eye defects, renal agenesis, and gonadal agenesis . One study in Japan revealed that arsenic as well as m ercury and c admium accumulate in the 136 I. Wessels human body during aging and may play a role in the aging process (Yasuda et al. 2012). So far, no studies on As defi ciency have been reported. Chromium Over fi fty years ago c hromium was proposed to be an essential element for mammals, with a role in maintaining proper lipid metabolism and regulat- ing blood sugar. Over the next several decades, research recommended Cr nutritional supplements for weight loss and muscle development, without knowledge on mode of action (Anderson 1997; Vincent 2010; Appendix 8.1). A timely review by Hua et al. (2012) addresses some of the recent fi ndings regarding the molecular mechanisms of alleviating insulin resistance by chro- mium, which sheds light on the potential cellular pathways that are affected. Chromium occurs in any oxidation state from –2 to +6. Trivalent chromium (Cr3+) is the biologically active form, while hexavalent chromium (Cr6+) is potentially toxic to humans and carcinogenic. Absorption of Cr3+ from the in- testinal tract is low (0.4–2.5%), and the remainder is excreted in the feces (Offenbacher et al. 1986; Eckhert 2012). Absorbed chromium is stored in the liver, spleen, soft tissue, and bone . Diets high in simple sugar can increase Cr excretion, while vitamin C and niacin can enhance absorption (Kozlovsky et al. 1986; Offenbacher et al. 1986). Stress, infections, exercise, p regnancy, l actation, and aging can increase Cr loss or decrease its absorbtion, and might require supplementation (Davies et al. 1997; Lukaski et al. 1996). Although rare, Cr defi ciency causes glucose-handling disorders
