Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and aging can increase Cr loss or decrease its absorbtion, and might require supplementation (Davies et al. 1997; Lukaski et al. 1996). Although rare, Cr defi ciency causes glucose-handling disorders with d ia- betes-like symptoms and abnormalities of the motor and sensory nerves. It is, however, easily corrected through supplementation (Jeejeebhoy et al. 1977; Anderson 1995). However, the required value of Cr supplements for diabet- ic patients (especially type 2) and to correct blood lipid levels and promote weight loss has not yet been established . Defi ciences or overload of chromium, from conception through life, are associated with malfunctions, malformations, acute and c hronic diseases, and fetal toxicity (Appendix 8.1); the nature of these depends on onset, duration, and degree of the defi ciencies. Pregnant women may be at risk for Cr defi - ciency, but it should possible to cover the required amount by increasing Cr- rich foods in the diet, since supplements can easily result in high amounts of arsenic, which could negatively affect fetal development (Lindgren et al. 1984; Moukarzel 2009). Nickel The essentiality of n ickel in higher organisms is questionable. In order of abun- dance in Earth’s crust, nickel ranks as the 24th element. Thus, humans are con- stantly exposed to this ubiquitous element, although in varying amounts. Due to its abundance, natural Ni defi ciency does not occur (Denkhaus and Salnikow Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging 137 2002). The blood levels of nickel in nonsmokers range from 0.01–0.26 μg/l . Nickel intake occurs via inhalation, ingestion, and dermal absorption and is a function of bioavailability. Nickel is excreted equal- ly well via urine and feces. Inhaled nickel is selectively concentrated in the lung, followed by heart, diaphragm, brain, and spinal cord tissues (Tjalve et al. 1984). Exposure to high doses of nickel disturbs established cellular ho- meostasis via changes of intracellular Ca levels and produces oxidative stress. Nickel allergy, in the form of contact dermatitis, is the most common and well- fi brosis, variable degrees of kidney and cardiovascular system poisoning, and stimulation of neoplastic transformation. The mechanism of the latter effect is currently unknown and the subject of detailed investigation. Epidemiological studies have clearly implicated Ni compounds as human carcinogens based on a higher incidence of lung and nasal cancer among Ni mining, smelting, and refi nery workers (Denkhaus and Salnikow 2002). Nickel exposure can re- sult in signifi cant
