Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


based on a higher incidence of lung and nasal cancer among Ni mining, smelting, and refi nery workers (Denkhaus and Salnikow 2002). Nickel exposure can re- sult in signifi cant embryotoxic effects in terms of increased resorption rates, decreased fetal weight, delay in skeletal ossifi cation, and a high incidence of malformations (acephalia, ankylosis of the extremity, club foot, and skeletal anomalies) (Lu et al. 1979; Appendix 8.1). Vanadium Vanadium is a trace element found in living organisms with a potentially es- sential role. Less than 5% of ingested v anadium is absorbed. Vanadium is rap- idly cleared from plasma, accumulates in kidney, liver, testes, bone, and spleen and is able to cross the placenta. Vanadium is excreted primarily through the kidney, with a small amount through bile. Tissues with the highest concentra- tions include lung, teeth, thyroid, and bone . Vanadium is a cofactor for several enzymes including haloperoxidases and nitrogenases. In oxidation state 5 it is an analog of phosphorus, and thus an inhibitor against phosphorylases such as the ATPase, protein tyrosine phos- phatases, and ribonucleases. Vanadium demonstrates promising antidiabetic properties and thus has been applied as a potential therapeutic . No human cases of V defi ciency have been reported. Vanadium defi ciency in goats increased rates of abortion, convulsions, bone malformations, and early death. However, high concentrations are toxic . Vanadium is a reproductive toxin that affects males more than females. The International Agency for Research on Cancer lists vanadium as a possible carcinogen based on inhalation studies of V pentoxide in animals. Vanadate treatment resulted in micrognathia, supernumerary ribs, and al- terations in sternebral ossifi cation. Whereas embryolethality was not observed at any dosage level , vanadyl sulfate pentahydrate caused maternal toxicity, embryofetotoxicity, and teratogenicity (cleft palate, micro- gnathia) at all dose levels tested (Paternain et al. 1990; Appendix 8.1). 138 I. Wessels Metallic Elements and Infectious Diseases For any one or more of the trace metals discussed here, d yshomeostasis has long been associated with susceptibility and progression of infl ammatory dis- eases (Suttle and Jones 1989; Katona and Katona-Apte 2008). Incidence of certain infl ammatory diseases has been mapped to areas defi cient in selenium and zinc (Di Bella et al. 2010). However, descriptions of the underlying mech- anisms as well as the mode of action of supplementation strategies are just beginning to emerge. Trace elements are structural parts and cofactors of a
