Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


descriptions of the underlying mech- anisms as well as the mode of action of supplementation strategies are just beginning to emerge. Trace elements are structural parts and cofactors of a variety of enzymes. Lack of the metal causes alterations or loss of function as a general conse- quence. Proteins affected can either belong to the host, with a majority be- ing related to immune functions (see Weiss, this volume) or to the pathogen, which is mostly responsible for their proliferation or virulence (Bachmann and Weiser, this volume; Sterritt and Lester 1980; Thurman et al. 1989; Prado et al. 2012; Haase 2013). The later fi nding suggests that a benefi t for the host can be gained from the defi ciency; this might be true for an acute transloca- tion of trace metals away from the microbes (Bachmann and Weiser, this vol- ume). However, prolonged defi ciency has major, negative consequences for the host, especially for its immune system as described above (see also Weiss, this volume). Another general symptom of defi ciencies in cobalt, copper, molybdenum, iron, selenium, zinc, and vanadium is an increase in reactive oxygen produc- tion, due to the fact that the majority of enzymes involved in redox metabolism are metal dependent. Increased levels of reactive oxygen species can induce rapid mutation in RNA viruses, often resulting in a more virulent form. Recent published examples for Se defi ciency-related viral mutation are c oxsackievirus B3, infl uenza virus, and poliomyelitis virus (see Harthill 2011). Selenium sup- plementation decreased the mutation rate and improved the host response, in- cluding viral clearance. This is in concordance with the observation that H N , 2 2 H N , H N , and SARS originated from regions in China where selenium is 3 2 5 1 low. Experiments in mice confi rm those observations: Se-defi cient mice had higher rates of mutation to more virulent H N forms than mice with balanced 3 2 serum selenium. As an underlying mechanism, elevated reactive oxygen levels could be defi ned. Also, incidences of H IV and E bola are high in Se-deprived regions in Sub-Saharan Africa (Di Bella et al. 2010; Harthill 2011). For HIV, deeper insights into the incidents and severity of the disease inde- pendent of Se and Zn homeostasis have recently been established. Results of several studies showed that decreased serum selenium as well as serum zinc caused higher
