Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of the disease inde- pendent of Se and Zn homeostasis have recently been established. Results of several studies showed that decreased serum selenium as well as serum zinc caused higher incidents, more severe progression, higher bacterial loads, in- creased susceptibility to secondary infections (such as hepatitis C), mycobac- terial infections, and other especially opportunistic infections as well as higher mortality. Benefi ts from supplementing HIV patients with selenium or zinc are a decreased viral load, less hospitalization, and milder disease progression Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging 139 (Baum et al. 2010; Harthill 2011). Because of its strong impact on immune functioning, zinc has been linked to all kinds of infectious diseases (for details, see Haase 2013). Zinc supplementation has been repeatedly shown to be ben- efi cial in preventing diarrhea and decreases the incidents of infections in the neonates. Benefi ts derive from zinc’s role in intestinal fl uid transport, mucosal integrity, immunity, and the redox metabolism . Positive effects have been observed for treatment of p neumonia and other lower re- spiratory infections, malaria, the common cold, leprosies, tuberculosis, leish- maniasis, and s epsis, especially in risk groups such as infants, children, and the elderly. However, results from studies vary considerably and should thus be explored further in more detail (Fischer and Black 2004; Zeng and Zhang 2011; Basnet et al. 2014; Mocchegiani et al. 2013). An interesting example for the interplay of trace elements during infl ammation is that zinc can starve pneumonia by blocking the bacterial Mn uptake. Unique mechanisms have been proposed for the positive role of vanadium in preventing infl ammatory diseases: supplementation of mice with vanadium prior to LPS injection leads to upregulation of IL-1 antagonist, damping of brain-based proinfl ammatory cytokine upregulation, and blunting of central communication. Values for hu- man use remains, however, to be established . Although trace elements are toxic for humans if overdosed, the literature on the benefi cial effects of trace metal supplements goes back ages. Ointments containing trace metals (e.g., zinc) have long been used to treat and prevent skin infections; however, benefi ts from oral supplementation are more recent. Effects are partly due to the support of the immune system but include direct consequences to the microorganism as well. C obalt is mostly applied to keep surfaces sterile (e.g., in hospitals) due to its high toxicity for microbes. It is also used as an
