Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


to the microorganism as well. C obalt is mostly applied to keep surfaces sterile (e.g., in hospitals) due to its high toxicity for microbes. It is also used as an adjuvant for various infectious disease medications. One famous example is the Co chelate complex CTC-96, used to treat herpes, adenovirus, cytomegalovirus, Epstein–Barr virus, and varicella zoster virus (Schwartz et al. 2001b). The potential importance of cobalt for the h ost defense has been suggested, but remains to be explored in more detail. The general antimicrobial properties of copper have been described in lit- erature; over 300 publications were already available in 1973. More recent research has focused on defi ning more than thirty types of Cu-containing pro- teins across the animal kingdom. Similar to cobalt, most of our current knowl- edge stems from experiments that analyze the effect of surfaces containing high amounts of copper rather than a function within the host. A few of the re- cent studies have suggested an association of changes in Cu homeostasis with Escherichia coli, methicillin-resistant S taphylococcus aureus, Clostridium dif- fi cile, infl uenza, adenovirus, and fungi . As indicated earlier, not all trace elements have positive effects on the host defense against pathogens. One study in Bangladesh revealed that high intake of arsenic during pregnancy (ingested, e.g., through contaminated drinking water) increases the risk for infections of the lower respiratory tract and the 140 I. Wessels number of deaths in mothers and their infants. It has been suggested that ar- senic causes i mmune suppression and becomes apparent through suppressed antibody formation, T cell proliferation, decreased size of the t hymus, im- paired macrophage activity, and elevated production of reactive oxygen spe- cies . Iron overload has negative effects on the immune system as well and can result in increased susceptibility to infectious diseases. Nonessential Metallic Pollutants To s ummarize metal homeostasis throughout life, let us review some important facts on the impact of nonessential metals on human health. Mercury is one of the most toxic metals in the environment. It is released through activities in the a griculture industry (fungicides, seed preservatives), by pharmaceuticals, as pulp and paper preservatives, catalysts in organic syn- theses, in thermometers and batteries, in amalgams (d ental fi llings), and in chlorine and caustic soda production (Zhang and Wong 2007). Exposure to high levels of metallic, inorganic, or organic mercury can permanently damage the brain, kidneys,
