Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


ental fi llings), and in chlorine and caustic soda production (Zhang and Wong 2007). Exposure to high levels of metallic, inorganic, or organic mercury can permanently damage the brain, kidneys, and the developing fetus (Chang et al. 1980; Lindgren et al. 1984; Holt and Webb 1986; Appendix 8.1). The toxicity of mercury depends on its chemical form: ionic < metallic < organic (Clarkson and Magos 2006). C admium is naturally present in the environment: in air, soils, sediments, and even in unpolluted seawater. It is emitted into the air by mines, metal smelters, and industries that use Cd compounds to produce alloys, batteries, pigments, and plastics, although many countries have stringent controls on such emissions. Tobacco smoke is one of the largest single sources of Cd expo- sure in humans. Absorption of cadmium in the lungs through s moking is much greater than in the gastrointestinal tract, where people are exposed to cadmium through the consumption of plant- and animal-based foods. Seafood, such as mollusks and crustaceans, can also be a source of cadmium (Castro-Gonzalez and Mendez-Armenta 2008). Cadmium accumulates in the human body and can negatively affect the liver, kidney, lung, bones, placenta, brain, and central nervous system (Castro-Gonzalez and Mendez-Armenta 2008). Other dam- age that has been observed includes reproductive and developmentally toxic, hepatic, hematological and immunological effects; intrauterine growth re- tardation; and fetal death (Ahokas et al. 1980; Daston 1982; Holt and Webb 1986; Apostoli and Catalani 2011; Appendix 8.1). Interestingly, adverse effects are produced despite limited embryonic and fetal accumulation of the metal . Oral a luminum is ingested through food and drinking water as well as thera- peutic preparations administered in large quantities, such as phosphate bind- ers, antacids, and buffered aspirins (Cannata and Domingo 1989). Although the gastrointestinal tract normally represents a barrier to Al absorption, this barrier can be breached under some circumstances. Moreover, it has been Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging 141 demonstrated that concurrent ingestion of Al compounds and some organic dietary constituents (e.g., citric, lactic, and ascorbic acids) causes signifi cant increase in the gastrointestinal absorption of aluminum . Aluminum accumulation in the body manifests in impaired neurological devel- opment, Alzheimer disease, metabolic bone disease, dyslipidemia (abnormal blood lipids), and even genotoxic activity (Krewski et al. 2007; Hernandez- Sanchez et al. 2013). Of special concern is the intake of large amounts of aluminum by pregnant women. During p
