Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


lipids), and even genotoxic activity (Krewski et al. 2007; Hernandez- Sanchez et al. 2013). Of special concern is the intake of large amounts of aluminum by pregnant women. During p regnancy, “d yspepsia” (condition of disturbed ingestion) is a common complaint, and Al-containing antacids are widely used to relieve dyspeptic symptoms. Aluminum can act as a powerful neurological toxicant, provoking embryonic and fetal toxic effects in animals and humans after gestational exposure. Despite this knowledge, over-the- counter patient information leafl ets for European antacids vary substantially in terms of warnings that Al toxicity will increase health risk . Further studies are needed to clarify the link between Al exposure and disease in humans. Moreover, harmful and toxic doses need to be clearly defi ned for the public . Conclusion The incidence of m alnutrition in the world is alarming, as is the increasing problem of o besity. Furthermore, the incidence of defi ciency in essential nutri- ents is on the rise. The World Food Programme estimates that poor nutrition is responsible for 3.1 million child deaths annually (or 45% of all child deaths).1 The rate of maternal morbidity due to obesity has also increased. People of all ages are at risk for defi ciencies in essential nutrients, even though the metabolism of adults is often tolerant enough to cope with transient dietary defi ciencies. The primary groups at risk are pregnant women, fetuses, and the increasing elderly population. Often neglected are people exposed to high psychological and physical stress, including athletes and those who work in leadership positions. (Those groups of people may, however, be generally more health conscious and thus aware of additional dietary needs.) Balanced nutrition early in life is vitally important; undernutrition during pregnancy and the fi rst two years of life is a major determinant of (a) stunted development and subsequent obesity and (b) incidence of infectious diseases, with possible long-term damage and manifestation of noncommunicable dis- eases in adulthood . Disturbed metal balances in the elderly result from lifelong exposure to toxic metals as well as years of wear and tear on their metabolism, including enzyme and organ systems. In addition, dys- homeostasis in trace metals, especially defi ciencies, strongly impacts immune function throughout life, causing increased susceptibility and more severe 142 I. Wessels progression of all kinds of infectious diseases. Nutritional interference should be approached in different ways, depending on the age group. As
