Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


causing increased susceptibility and more severe 142 I. Wessels progression of all kinds of infectious diseases. Nutritional interference should be approached in different ways, depending on the age group. As described, problems in metal homeostasis in the elderly do not always stem from defi cien- cies or excess, but rather from a disturbance in an enzymatic process. It is thus imperative to identify the reason for the disturbance rather than simply to pre- scribe supplements. Supplementation in pregnant women should be carefully monitored. Often, changes in the diet are much more effi cient than chemical supplementation, as overexposure to supplemental nutrients can be detrimental for the developing embryo. R ecommended dietary allowances are well defi ned for age groups, yet how can people meet RDAs and live a healthy life? One option is to increase labeling on f ood and beverages, so as to indicate not only caloric and fat values but also the amounts of (trace) elements. Initial steps to provide more complete nutri- tional labeling have been taken, but public awareness and education is needed. The data provided in this review are only a summary of the mass volume of information that has been generated over the last decade. Detailed reviews on the homeostasis for each element, including involved transporters and binding proteins, are available. How can this information be brought to the public? One approach is to integrate nutrition into school curricula, starting at the kindergar- ten and primary school levels. Such educational approaches have begun in vari- ous areas, offering children and their parents the opportunity to prepare meals together. As an example, a detailed action plan for the United States was gener- ated by the White House Task Force on Childhood O besity2 and for Germany by the German Obesity Foundation (Müller et al. 2007). Initiatives such as Let’s Move! are great examples of an approach that can be taken to raise a healthy generation of children (for study results, see Pirzadeh et al. 2014). Doctors and antenatal exercise groups are also well positioned to provide information to the public. Here, there is often, however, a tendency to prescribe medications, which may not always be the best solution, when alternatives (e.g., a particular diet or a visit to a dietitian) might serve a patient better. E ssential metals are generally regarded as “safe,” in particular if taken up via food, which is the best source
