Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


a visit to a dietitian) might serve a patient better. E ssential metals are generally regarded as “safe,” in particular if taken up via food, which is the best source of necessary elements. However, there is always a risk of overdosage, although overdosage due to high food consump- tion has barely been described in the literature. In contrast, highly concentrated supplements have the potential to induce allergic or toxic reactions, and studies are lacking on the effects of supplement combinations. Taking several supple- ments at the same time may neutralize their impact (and have no benefi t) or produce negative, synergistic side effects. In general, there is much confusion as to what constitutes good nutrition—a situation often exacerbated (rather than remedied) by “health websites” and media reports. In addition to creating headlines, the latest “fad diet” often con- tradicts basic nutritional knowledge that has been trusted for decades, creating www.letsmove.gov Metal Homeostasis during Development, Maturation, and Aging 143 widespread alarm and instant dietary changes. Many such reports are biased and overgeneralized, marked by failure to evaluate fully the current literature in trusted journal publications. Thus the public is left misinformed and poten- tially ready to make poor dietary decisions. Yet how can people decide which information is accurate? The pharmaceutical industry has the ability to infl uence the generation and updating of RDA values. Often, discrepancies exist between values given by product labels. For example, the recommended dose for chromium in healthy individuals (during pregnancy and while nursing) is high, even though re- search suggests that lower values are suffi cient. Several years ago a conjecture was voiced, and taken up by the media, that chromium could mitigate diabetes and aid weight loss. As a result of the subsequent hype and claims for better substantiated. Obviously it is not in the economic interest of the pharmacologi- cal industry to rectify such ill claims. One approach to help people eat a more balanced diet is to improve the quality of food. This requires reducing the amounts of chemical fertilizers, in- secticides, pesticides, etc., as well as improving food processing methods to re- tain natural nutrients. In a ddition, people’s e ating habits need to be scrutinized. In many societies, there is a tendency to eat prepackaged, ready-made meals that are easily and quickly prepared. Such food, however, has typically much less nutritional value. People need to be aware of the negative
