Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


a tendency to eat prepackaged, ready-made meals that are easily and quickly prepared. Such food, however, has typically much less nutritional value. People need to be aware of the negative health impacts that could result from consuming high amounts of processed fast food and be encouraged, instead, to consume fresh food. Governmental involvement at all levels would be benefi cial. To make fresh food more attractive to the consumer, local producers may need support to lower prices for fresh products. Schools, universities, and businesses should also be encouraged to offer more healthy food options. The available research information is broad. However, studies have concen- trated primarily on a single element; interactions between metals, their com- petition for transporters, and binding proteins have, for the most part, been neglected. F uture research must focus on this to elucidate interactions and symbiotic effects. Overall, societies are becoming increasingly aware of the increase in m al- nutrition and have begun to search for solutions. Unfortunately, these solutions have centered on prescriptions and supplements. New strategies need to be developed that are more natural and preventive. Up-to-date research should be used to inform and update nutritional recommendations. Medical profes- sionals should be encouraged to update their knowledge regularly and to pass this on to their patients. Different media venues should be used to educate and inform people of all ages. All efforts should be geared toward expanding our understanding on disease and disease prevention, for this is always better, and usually cheaper, than treatment and medication. -latem laitnessenon dna laitnesse tnaveler yllacigoloib rof daolrevo ro ycneicfi ed fo smotpmys dna ,secruos doof ,snoitcnuF 1.8 xidneppA steehs tcaF latnemelppuS yrateiD morf detpadA .noitirtun latnerap latot :NPT ;esatumsid edixorepus :DOS ;lanitsetniortsag :IG .stnemele cil .)2102( ssoR dna )/lla-tsil/steehstcaf/vog.hin.do.sdo//:ptth( daolrevO ycneicfi eD ecruoS dooF snoitcnuF niks ,smotpmys IG ,yhtapolahpecnE ycneicfi ed on ,sledom lamina nI ,eciuj eparg ,hcanips ,ruofl ,eciR noitcnuf lacigoloisyhp nevorp oN -hpirep ,sititamred ,noitatnemgip laidracoym :snamuh rof detroper ,sniarg ,doofaes dna hsfi )retawtlas( .snamuh ni ,yhtaporuen ,sesaesid ralucsav lare deriapmi ,htworg decuder ,egamad srezilitref ,retaw gniknird dna star ni laitnesse eb ot nwonK s A ,aimena ,recnac ,yticixotoneg latanirep desaercni ,ytilitref slamina rehto yticixototapeh ytilatrom ,sesaesid gnul ,gnitimov ,aesuaN -ativ ot eud sredrosid lacigolorueN ,ria dna lios ni tnetnoc no sdnepeD ,21B nimativ fo tnenopmoC -borp lacigoloruen ,sesaesid traeh noitcnuflam 21B nim retaw gniknird ,sisehtnys AND ni devlovni suht sredrosid dioryht ,smel ygrene dna
