Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


lacigolonummi ,lanomroh ,yrosnes nZ latnem ;smelborp niks ;sredrosid dna sredrosid lanoitome ,ytilibatirri etiteppa fo ssol ;aehrraid cinorhc msidanogopyh ;ecnetopmi ;riah dna snoisel eye ,selam ni Impact of Metals on Immune Response and Tolerance, and Modulation of Metal Metabolism during Infection Günter Weiss Abstract Several metals play important roles in host cell and microbial metabolism because they form a part of central enzymes that are essential, for example, for D NA synthesis, cel- lular respiration, and key metabolic pathways. The availability of these metals differen- tially impact on host antimicrobial immune responses as well as on microbial defenses against them . Thus, during infection, host cells attempt to gain suffi cient access to these metals or to limit the availability of these factors for microbes; this is thought to play a decisive role in the course of infections. Accordingly, subtle changes in the metabolism of these metals and their distribution throughout the body occur: microbes activate different pathways to secure a suffi cient supply of these metals needed for their pathogenicity and proliferation as well as to mount effective defenses against the host immune system. This review focuses on the role of iron in the host–pathogen interplay. A brief dis- cussion is included on the role of zinc, manganese, and copper for host–pathogen inter- action, immune function, and their alteration by the infl ammatory response. Introduction Metal ions are pivotal in host–pathogen interactions. This is partly because microbes need metals, such as iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), or manganese (Mn), for important metabolic processes and proliferation and as central com- ponents for defenses against host-mediated radical formation. The basis for the essential function of these metals can be traced back to their ability to accept or donate electrons needed during metabolic processes. Metal accumulation 148 G. Weiss can become toxic, however, due to their ability to catalyze the formation of toxic oxygen and nitrogen radicals, which can intoxicate microbes or dam- age surrounding cells and tissues. Microbes take up t ransition metals through multiple pathways, and suffi cient acquisition of these metals through patho- gens is linked to the pathogenicity and proliferation of microbes. In additional, transition metals (specifi cally iron) play important roles in antimicrobial host responses, not only by synergistic effects toward antimicrobial radical forma- tion but also by directly affecting immune cell proliferation and antimicrobial immune effector pathways. Thus, the host immune system affects the metabo- lism
