Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


by synergistic effects toward antimicrobial radical forma- tion but also by directly affecting immune cell proliferation and antimicrobial immune effector pathways. Thus, the host immune system affects the metabo- lism of these metals and/or their availability for microbes via the action of cytokines, cellular proteins, or hormones—for which the term n utritional im- munity has been coined—and plays a decisive role in the course of infection. Role of Iron for Immune Cell Plasticity Iron is an e ssential metal due to its role as a prosthetic group in several essential proteins and enzymes involved in metabolic processes, mitochondrial respiration, and DNA synthesis. Iron catalyzes the formation of hydroxyl radicals, which then modulate the binding affi nity of critical transcription factors, such as HIF-1 or NF-kB, thus affecting gene expression during infl ammation . Therefore, both Fe overload and Fe defi ciency exert subtle effects on essential metabolic pathways as well as on the growth, proliferation, and differentiation of cells. Accordingly, the availability of iron affects the proliferation and differentiation of immune cells, which exploit different pathways to acquire this metal. The close interaction between iron and immunity is underscored by observations that certain immunological proteins do alter cellular Fe metabolism, as described for β2 microglobulin, HFE (which is a nonclassical MHC-I molecule linked to the majority of cases with human hemochromatosis), tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R), and the natural resistance-associated macrophage protein ( NRAMP1). Changes in immune function thus affect Fe homeostasis and vice versa . Lymphocytes have evoked different mechanisms to acquire iron, even under conditions when Fe availability is limited. All lymphocytes subsets, which include B and T lymphocytes as well as natural killer (NK) cells, are dependent on transferrin/transferrin receptor (TfR)-mediated Fe uptake; blockade of this pathway leads to diminished proliferation and differentiation of these cells . Accordingly, mitogenic stimuli, such as phytohemagglutinin, increase TfR surface expression on B and T cells. However, lymphocyte subsets differ in their dependence on transferrin- mediated Fe uptake. Induction of experimental Fe overload in rats resulted in a shift in the ratio between T helper (CD4+) and T suppressor/cytotoxic T cells (CD8+), with a relative expansion of the latter. Moreover, even the T helper Impact of Metals on Immune Response and Tolerance 149 (Th) subset responds differently to Fe perturbations. Several subsets of CD 4+ T helper cells are well established in humans; these are termed type 1 (Th-1), Th-2, Th-9,
