Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Tolerance 149 (Th) subset responds differently to Fe perturbations. Several subsets of CD 4+ T helper cells are well established in humans; these are termed type 1 (Th-1), Th-2, Th-9, Th-17, and Treg. Each subset produces a typical set of cytokines that regulate different immune effector functions, which cross-react with each other and play a decisive role in host responses to infections. Whereas Th-1 cells are very sensitive to treatment with anti-TfR antibodies, resulting in inhibition of their DNA synthesis, Th-2 cells are resistant to this procedure. This may be because Th-2 clones exhibit larger chelatable Fe storage pools than Th-1 cells. Thus, Th-1-mediated immune effector pathways are much more sensitive to changes in Fe homeostasis in vivo (Thorson et al. 1991). The latter can partly be attributed to a direct regulatory effect of iron on the activity of the central regulatory Th-1 cytokine IFN-γ . Monocytes and macrophages are the conductors that orchestrate Fe homeostasis in health and disease; they are thus on the interface between Fe homeostasis and immunity. One reason for this is that macrophages are essential for the maintenance of a suffi cient supply of iron for erythropoiesis, which is achieved by r ecycling iron from senescent red blood cells taken up by macrophages via erythrophagocytosis (Weiss and Schett 2013). In addition, macrophages need iron to produce highly toxic hydroxyl radicals by the enzyme phagocyte oxidase as part of their antimicrobial armamentarium . At the same time, macrophages are centrally involved in the diversion of Fe traffi c under infl ammatory conditions that occur during infection or cancer. Alterations of Iron Metabolism in Infl ammation Based on the decisive role of iron for both the host immune system and microbes, it has become clear that Fe metabolism is signifi cantly affected during the course of infection. These alterations of Fe traffi c are thought to result from a defense strategy of the body to limit the availability of iron for invading pathogens, for which the term n utritional immunity has been coined (Nairz et al. 2010; Cassat and Skaar 2013). This alteration in Fe homeostasis is mediated by cytokines and radicals as well as by acute phase proteins, which originate primarily from the liver. Combined, this mediation leads to retention of iron in macrophages and an impaired Fe absorption from the diet (Weiss and Schett 2013). The contribution of cytokines to systemic Fe regulation was fi
