Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


mediation leads to retention of iron in macrophages and an impaired Fe absorption from the diet (Weiss and Schett 2013). The contribution of cytokines to systemic Fe regulation was fi rst confi rmed through the observation of sustained h ypoferremia in mice injected with TNF-α or IL-1. Hypoferremia was paralleled by hyperferritinemia, which was traced back to induction of ferritin transcription by cytokines in cells of the reticuloendothelial system. In addition, the proinfl ammatory cytokines IL-1 and IL-6 regulate f erritin expression at the translational level. Iron storage in macrophages is further promoted via increased phagocytosis of erythrocytes. 150 G. Weiss This occurs when erythrocytes are damaged, as a result of exposure to infl ammation-driven radical formation, and are phagocytized via C3bi (CD11b/ CD18) receptors, which increase in expression following TNF-α treatment. Accordingly, the application of sublethal doses of TNF-α to mice resulted in a shortening of erythrocyte half-life and a faster clearance of these cells from the circulation via erythrophagocytosis (for a review, see Weiss 2002). The intriguing relationship between immunity and Fe homeostasis took on a new dimension after the acute phase protein hepcidin was identifi ed as the master regulator of Fe homeostasis . The observation that hepcidin-defi cient mice injected with turpentine did not develop h ypoferremia suggested that hepcidin could be involved in Fe disturbances during infl ammation or infection. One underlying mechanism is the induction of hepcidin expression by lipopolysaccharides (LPS), IL-1, IL-6, or IL-22 in hepatocytes. Hepcidin acts on Fe homeostasis upon binding to the only known Fe export protein ferroportin, thereby leading to Fe retention in macrophages and impaired Fe absorption from the diet . Accordingly, increased circulating hepcidin concentrations in serum result in reduced circulating Fe levels and increased Fe retention in macrophages, a scenario which should limit the access to iron from circulating pathogens (Ganz 2009; Nairz et al. 2010). In addition, mammalian monocytes and macrophages produce small amounts of hepcidin in response to LPS or IL-6. Although the basal expression is relatively low in comparison to the amount of hepcidin produced in the liver, microbial challenges, such as group A streptococci and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, can induce a 20- to 80-fold increase of hepcidin expression in these cells through a TLR-4-dependent pathway, whereas IL- 6-mediated induction of hepcidin is mediated via STAT3 activation (Nairz et al. 2010; Ganz 2009). Interestingly, hepcidin released by macrophages targets ferroportin in an autocrine fashion,
