Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


TLR-4-dependent pathway, whereas IL- 6-mediated induction of hepcidin is mediated via STAT3 activation (Nairz et al. 2010; Ganz 2009). Interestingly, hepcidin released by macrophages targets ferroportin in an autocrine fashion, thus promoting macrophage or monocyte Fe accumulation during infl ammatory processes. This may be a fast-acting defense mechanism of the innate immune system against invading microbes. Hepcidin targets f erroportin exposed on the cell surface, resulting in immediate blockage of Fe release and reducing the availability of this essential microbial nutrient in circulation. Effects of hepcidin on Fe homeostasis appear, however, to occur rapidly, but only for a limited duration. This has been confi rmed by the observation that injection of LPS results in the induction of hepcidin and development of hypoferremia, which lasted for several hours . Thereafter, serum Fe concentrations returned to normal or were even higher than at baseline. Thus, to ensure a sustained modulation of Fe homeostasis under infl ammatory conditions and during infection, a concerted action of different signals exerted by cytokines, acute phase proteins, and hormones is mandatory. A central regulatory factor that ensures sustained Fe retention in monocytes or macrophages, as well as reduced expression of ferroportin during infl ammation, is IFN-γ. The Th-1-derived cytokine IFN-γ induces Impact of Metals on Immune Response and Tolerance 151 ferritin transcription but also affects f erritin translation, which is based on activation of iron regulatory protein (IRP)-binding affi nity by the cytokine. This is partly due to the stimulation of n itric oxide (NO) formation by IFN-γ, which then activates IRP-1 binding to the ferritin iron-responsive element (IRE). This leads to an inhibition of ferritin translation, whereas effects to IRP-2 activity depend on the type of cell and NO product (Pantopoulos et al. 2012). Moreover, hydrogen peroxide and superoxide anion modulate IRP-1 activity through a rapidly inducible process involving kinase or phosphatase signal transduction pathways; this results in posttranscriptional regulation of IRE-regulated target genes, such as TfR and ferritin (Recalcati et al. 2010; Pantopoulos et al. 2012). IFN-γ treatment of monocytes blocks the uptake of t ransferrin-bound iron via downregulation of TfR expression. This is most likely due to induction of a proximal inhibitory factor by IFN-γ, which inhibits TfR transcription. However, IFN-γ induces the expression of divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) and acts synergistically with LPS and TNF-α in this respect. This stimulates ferrous Fe uptake into these cells and promotes their incorporation into ferritin
