Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) and acts synergistically with LPS and TNF-α in this respect. This stimulates ferrous Fe uptake into these cells and promotes their incorporation into ferritin . At the same time, IFN-γ and LPS induce Fe retention in macrophages by downregulating ferroportin transcription, thus blocking Fe release from these cells (Ludwiczek et al. 2003). Hepcidin formation by macrophages or monocytes may be part of a fast-acting innate immune effector arm aimed at preventing Fe export from macrophages, which is relevant under microbial invasion. The outcome is to reduce circulating Fe concentrations and the availability of this nutrient for pathogens. Thereafter, ferroportin transcription is blocked by IFN-γ or LPS, thus ensuring a prolonged blockage of Fe export. not affect the suppression of ferroportin mRNA expression by IFN-γ or LPS , treatment of murine macrophages with IL-4 and/or IL- 13, prior to stimulation with IFN-γ, suppresses NO formation and subsequent IRP activation, which concomitantly enhances ferritin translation. This has also detectable amounts of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Conversely, TfR mRNA levels increase following pretreatment of IFN-γ-stimulated macrophages with the anti-infl ammatory cytokines. This may be referred to as IL-4- or IL- 13-mediated antagonization of the inhibitory signal induced by IFN-γ, which inhibits TfR expression by an IRP-independent pathway. In addition, IL-10 and IL-6 may affect macrophage Fe a cquisition by stimulating the expression of the hemoglobin scavenger receptor CD163, thus promoting the uptake of hemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes into monocytic cells. The important role of Th-2-derived cytokines for the development of h yperferritinemia under chronic infl ammatory processes was confi rmed by a clinical study in patients with C rohn disease. In a placebo-controlled, double-blinded study, patients who received therapy with human recombinant IL-10 developed a normocytic anemia preceded by a signifi cant increase in serum ferritin levels; 152 G. Weiss reticulocyte counts were not, however, affected, compared to placebo-treated controls (Weiss and Schett 2013). Both anemia and h yperferritinemia resolved spontaneously within two to four weeks after IL-10 therapy was terminated. Thus, Th-2-derived cytokines may increase Fe uptake via induction of TfR and CD163, but will also promote Fe s torage within ferritin through activated macrophages. In addition, IL-10 stimulates HO-1 expression and activity, thus promoting Fe reutilization from phagocytosed erythrocytes, hemoglobin- haptoglobin complexes, and hemopexin-bound heme, respectively (Gozzelino et al. 2012). In addition, the increased expression of ferritin and the subsequent sequestration of iron within this protein
