Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


from phagocytosed erythrocytes, hemoglobin- haptoglobin complexes, and hemopexin-bound heme, respectively (Gozzelino et al. 2012). In addition, the increased expression of ferritin and the subsequent sequestration of iron within this protein contribute to limiting tissue damage during infection by inhibiting the catalytic action of iron. Thus, overexpression of H-chain ferritin (which harbors ferroxidase activity) results in tolerance to infection by limiting infl ammation-induced tissue damage, as shown in animal models of malaria . In summary, pro- and anti-infl ammatory cytokines and, most importantly, acute phase proteins cooperate at multiple steps to increase macrophage Fe accumulation by stimulating various Fe acquisition pathways in these cells. At the same time, cytokines and hepcidin inhibit Fe export from macrophages by downregulating ferroportin expression. This results in Fe retention within cells of the reticuloendothelial system and Fe-restricted erythropoiesis (Table 9.1). These processes result in the development of h ypoferremia, hyperferritin emia, and Fe-restricted a nemia, the latter of which has been termed anemia of c hronic disease (ACD) or anemia of chronic infl ammation (Weiss and from chronic infl ammatory disorders (e.g., a utoimmune diseases, chronic infections, malignancies). Although the development of anemia is associated with detrimental effects, especially in relation to cardiac function, quality of life, and growth and mental development, the underlying hypoferremia and the diversion of iron from circulation may also exert potentially positive effects, especially when infections underlie chronic immune activation. Impact of Iron on Antimicrobial Immune Effector Function The development o f ACD does not only limit the availability of iron for microbes but can strengthen the immune response directed against invading pathogens. Specifi cally, Fe loading of monocytes or macrophages inhibits IFN- γ-mediated pathways, such as the formation of TNF-α, reduced expression of MHC class II antigens and ICAM-1, decreased formation of neopterin, and impaired tryptophan degradation via IFN-γ-mediated induction of indole- amine-2,3–dioxygenase (for a review, see Nairz et al. 2010). As a result, Fe-loaded macrophages have an impaired potential, in vitro and in vivo, to kill various bacteria, parasites, fungi (e.g., L egionella, Listeria, Ehrlichia, Mycobacterium, Salmonella, L eishmania, Plasmodium, Candida, Mucor), and Impact of Metals on Immune Response and Tolerance 153 Table 9.1 Pathways for regulating F e homeostasis through cytokines, acute phase proteins, and radicals: interleukin (IL), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interferon (IFN), divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), ferroportin (FP1), nitric oxide (NO), and h ydro- gen peroxide (H O ). 2 2 Factors Mechanisms TNF-α
