Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


iron impairs iNOS inducibility by cytokines (Nairz et al. 2010). According to the regulatory feedback loop, NO produced by activated macrophages leads to an inhibition of ferritin translation, thus linking the maintenance of Fe homeostasis to NO formation for host defense. Through its deactivating effect on IFN-γ function, iron also affects the Th-1/Th-2 balance: Th-1 effector functions are weakened while Th-2-mediated cytokine production (e.g., IL-4 activity) is increased, a condition that is rather unfavorable in an infection (Nairz et al. 2010; Mencacci et al. 1997). Iron overload also has negative effects on neutrophil function: in chronic hemodialysis patients, Fe therapy impairs the potential of neutrophils to kill bacteria, thus reducing their capacity to phagocytize foreign particles . By modulating cytokine activities, iron triggers macrophage polarization, and opposite M1 and M2 macrophages differ in contrasting metabolic profi les in regard to Fe homeostasis . Moreover, the induction of M2 polarization along with increased expression of HO-1 has been linked to immune tolerance in infections, specifi cally in malaria . Thus, both Fe overload and Fe defi ciency have unfavorable immunological effects in vivo. Accordingly, mice kept on an Fe-rich diet presented with a reduced production of IFN-γ, compared to mice fed with a normal diet, and animals that received an Fe-defi cient diet showed decreased T cell proliferation (Omara and Blakley 1994). Both Fe-overloaded and Fe-defi cient mice had an increased mortality when a sublethal dose of LPS was received, compared to animals with a normal Fe status. In one study, Fe-defi cient children had a reduced incidence of infection accompanied by a higher percentage of CD8+ cells producing IL-6, a more pronounced expression of T cell activation markers on lymphocytes, and an increased formation of IFN-γ, as compared to Malawian children with a normal Fe status . This coincides with the observation of an adverse outcome in children who received F e supplementation, mainly as a result of an increased incidence of severe malaria, bacterial infection, or d iarrhea (Sazawal et al. 2006; Soofi et al. 2013). In line with this observation, improved outcomes, but no mortality benefi t, were observed in children with cerebral malaria who received the Fe chelator desferrioxamine, which corresponded to antimalarial immune responses. In Africa, an endemic form of secondary Fe overload, caused by the consumption of traditional Fe- containing beer and linked to the presence of a mutation in the ferroportin Impact of Metals
