Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


an endemic form of secondary Fe overload, caused by the consumption of traditional Fe- containing beer and linked to the presence of a mutation in the ferroportin Impact of Metals on Immune Response and Tolerance 155 gene , is associated with an increased incidence of and mortality from t uberculosis. These latter data are in accordance with in vitro fi ndings, which fi nd that changes in intramacrophage Fe availability stimulates the proliferation of mycobacteria and weakens the antimycobacterial defense mechanisms of macrophages. Other infections—ranging from bacterial, viral, and fungal diseases to parasitic diseases, where Fe overload is associated with an unfavorable course of the infection and/or an impaired immune response— have been well summarized . The importance of iron for the antimicrobial immune response pathways is further underscored by the fi nding that many innate resistance genes of macrophages act by limiting Fe availability for intracellular bacteria. Macrophages exposed to the intracellular bacterium S. typhimurium increase the expression of the Fe export protein ferroportin; this stimulates cellular Fe export and limits Fe availability for intramacrophage bacteria, leading to improved control of bacterial proliferation by macrophages. In part, this is because a reduction of cytoplasmic iron increases the activity of immune effector pathways, such as TNF-α, IL-6, IL-12, or NO formation (Nairz et al. 2010). Importantly, part of the antimicrobial activities of the Th-1 cytokine IFN-γ and iNOS have been linked to their ability to limit Fe availability in bacteria. Briefl y, induction of iNOS by macrophages exposed to intracellular bacteria results in an activation of the transcription factor Nrf2; this stimulates ferroportin transcription, induces the export of iron from Salmonella-infected macrophages, and stimulates antimicrobial immune effector pathways. Importantly, the impaired control of Salmonella infection in iNOS–/– mice can be completely overcome by treatment with the Fe chelator desferrasirox . The crucial role of ferroportin-mediated Fe export for host defense against infections with intracellular pathogens is further supported by the observation that overexpression of ferroportin in macrophages can control the infection with a number of intracellular bacteria, such as C hlamydia spp., Legionella, Salmonella, or Mycobacteria . Another immune gene that exemplifi es the role of iron in infection is the phagolysosomal protein N RAMP1. The expression of Nramp1 is associated with resistance toward infections in intracellular pathogens such as L eishmania, Salmonella, or Mycobacteria spp., and occurs mainly by shuttling divalent metals across the phagolysomal membrane (Forbes and Gros
