Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


associated with resistance toward infections in intracellular pathogens such as L eishmania, Salmonella, or Mycobacteria spp., and occurs mainly by shuttling divalent metals across the phagolysomal membrane (Forbes and Gros 2001; Blackwell et al. 2001). Investigations of the RAW264.7 macrophage cell line stably transfected with functional or nonfunctional Nramp1 have demonstrated that macrophages expressing functional Nramp1 exhibit signifi cantly lower iron uptake via TfR and increased Fe release mediated through increased ferroportin expression. Accordingly, as a net effect of the altered expression of Fe transporters, the overall cellular Fe content was lower in macrophages bearing functional Nramp1 . This provides further support for the hypothesis that NRAMP1 expression confers resistance toward intracellular pathogens by limiting the availability of iron to the microbes; a contribution 156 G. Weiss to Fe-mediated formation of toxic radicals has also been discussed (Forbes and Gros 2001). In addition, NRAMP1-mediated alterations of Fe homeostasis stimulate antimicrobial immune effector function, as evidenced by increased formation of NO or TNF-α, whereas expression of the anti-infl ammatory cytokine IL-10 is signifi cantly reduced . Recent evidence suggests that Nramp1 functionality results in increased formation of lipocalin 2 (NGAL, Lcn2) . Lipocalin 2 is a neutrophil and macrophage-derived peptide that captures Fe-laden microbial siderophores, thus interfering with the acquisition of siderophore-bound iron by specifi c Gram-negative bacteria, such as Escherichia coli or Klebsiella spp. (Flo et al. 2004). Moreover, Lcn2 delivers siderophore-bound iron to mammalian cells, which are able to import the complex via Lcn2 receptor. Most interestingly, recent data provide evidence for the existence of mammalian siderophores that are captured by Lcn2, indicating that Lcn2 may be involved in transcellular and transmembrane Fe traffi cking in mammals . In addition, Lcn2 expression affects neutrophil recruitment to the sites of infection which, depending on the underlying pathogen, exerts contrasting effects on the outcome of the infection . Interestingly, Lcn2 is also secreted during infection with non-siderophore-producing pathogens, such as C hlamydia or Plasmodia. This limits Fe availability for Plasmodia and impairs erythropoiesis, which further inhibits replication of plasmodia. In addition, following the mechanisms described above, Lcn2 stimulates innate immune responses by limiting Fe availability (Zhao et al. 2012). Similarly, lipocalin 2 may confer r esistance to infection by Salmonella and Mycobacteria spp. in patients suffering from hereditary hemochromatosis. As a consequence of reduced hepcidin formation and increased expression of Lcn2 upon infection, macrophages of these patients are Fe defi cient,
