Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Mycobacteria spp. in patients suffering from hereditary hemochromatosis. As a consequence of reduced hepcidin formation and increased expression of Lcn2 upon infection, macrophages of these patients are Fe defi cient, thus constituting a hostile environment for these pathogens . It is important to note that host-mediated alterations of Fe homeostasis (e.g., via the formation of hepcidin) may directly impact the proliferation of microbes. Hepcidin expression has been shown to affect the proliferation of intrahepatic sporozoites negatively, but it may also increase susceptibility to infection with Fe-dependent pathogens such as S almonella (Portugal et al. 2011). It appears that different regulatory mechanisms are initiated, depending on the type of the infectious pathogens. Although hepcidin induction appears to be a very effi cient strategy to limit the availability of iron for extracellular bacteria, since it restricts the nutrient iron within the reticuloendothelial system, this strategy may be detrimental to intracellular pathogens. For intracellular pathogens, multiple pathways (e.g., NOS2, ferroportin formation, NRAMP1) lead to mobilization and export of iron out of macrophages, rendering them Fe defi cient; this ameliorates the control of infection with intracellular microbes and positively affects innate immune responses. Impact of Metals on Immune Response and Tolerance 157 Alterations of Copper, Zinc, and Manganese Homeostasis during Infection C opper homeostasis is closely linked to Fe metabolism, because the ferroxidases hephaestin and c eruloplasmin (which mediate the oxidation of ferrous to ferric iron and its incorporation into transferrin) are Cu-containing enzymes . Thus, Cu defi ciency leads to Fe overload and subsequent Fe-mediated tissue damage. In addition, copper plays important roles as a prosthetic group for many enzymes, such as cytochromes, proteins involved in oxidative phosphorylation, and Cu or Zn superoxide dismutase (Hood and Skaar 2012). As with iron, copper is a r edox-active metal iron that is able to catalyze the formation of toxic hydroxyl radicals; Cu accumulation is thus associated with increased antimicrobial toxicity, also termed metal poisoning (Samanovic et al. 2012). Evidence suggests that copper kills microbes via mechanisms that are independent from radical formation (e.g., by displacing iron from Fe-S clusters within enzymes); however, further investigation into these functions is needed. Of note, copper and zinc have been shown to accumulate in phagosomes of macrophages infected with M. tuberculosis (Wagner et al. 2005). Proinfl ammatory cytokines, such as I FN-γ, induce the expression of the Cu permease Ctr1 in macrophages, which results in an increased Cu uptake
