Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


M. tuberculosis (Wagner et al. 2005). Proinfl ammatory cytokines, such as I FN-γ, induce the expression of the Cu permease Ctr1 in macrophages, which results in an increased Cu uptake into macrophages as well as translocation of the P-type ATPase ATP7A to phagolysosomes. This mediates Cu infl ux into these vesicles and subsequent metal poisoning of bacteria . Copper defi ciency is, therefore, associated with an increased susceptibility to infections. The transition metal zinc plays a central role in the function of structural proteins and is essential for immune cell proliferation and differentiation (Liu et al. 2012). Cell differentiation is manifested through the association between Zn defi ciency and thymic atrophy, impaired B, T, and NK cell responses, as well as reduced formation of proinfl ammatory cytokines. Zinc, however, can be used as an antimicrobial weapon to intoxicate microbes. Recent evidence suggests that the granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM- CSF) induces the sequestration of zinc in macrophages. Specifi cally, GM-CSF induced the expression of two Zn transport proteins, leading to accumulation of the metal in the Golgi apparatus which triggered the formation of toxic radicals by virtue of NADPH oxidase, thereby exerting antifungal activity against Histoplasma capsulatum . Of interest, bacteria need zinc for their pathogenicity and as part of their defense against host-mediated oxidative stress. In randomized controlled trials aimed at improving children’s health by avoiding negative effects of Fe and Zn defi ciency on growth and mental development, daily dietary supplementation of i ron and zinc, in the form of micro-powders, resulted in an increased b urden of infections . Therefore, Zn sequestration during an infection is considered to represent another branch of nutritional immunity. Components 158 G. Weiss of the S100 protein family bind Zn+2, Cu+2, and Mn+2 (see below), which exert antimicrobial activity (Hood and Skaar 2012). Two of these proteins, S100A8 and S100A9, form a heterodimeric complex named calprotectin. Calprotectin is expressed by neutrophils, where it accounts for up to 50% of cytoplasmic proteins. The secretion of calprotectin is performed primarily by apoptotic neutrophils and associated with extracellular traps. Binding and sequestration of zinc and manganese by calprotectin is suggested to exert antimicrobial activity by weakening the antioxidant defense mechanism of microbes, which need these two molecules to activate their radical detoxifying enzymes. In addition, other S100 proteins, such as S100A12 (calcitermin), can also bind transition metals. Found in human airways, S100A12 exerts antimicrobial
