Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


these two molecules to activate their radical detoxifying enzymes. In addition, other S100 proteins, such as S100A12 (calcitermin), can also bind transition metals. Found in human airways, S100A12 exerts antimicrobial activity against several bacteria as well as against fungi or nematodes. The expression of S100 proteins can be induced by IL-17 and IL-22, whereas S100 proteins infl uence immune function by exerting proinfl ammatory activity and promoting neutrophil chemotaxis (Hood and Skaar 2012). The S100A7 protein (also termed psoriasin) is secreted by keratinocytes where it exerts antimicrobial actions after binding with zinc. It is important to bear in mind, however, that metal depletion strategies of the host affect pathogenic bacteria as well as the commensal or protective fl ora. Thus, bacteria which have evolved strategies to outcompete these metal restrictions benefi t from a developmental advantage and may thus become more pathogenic . As briefl y mentioned, Zn sequestration is often accompanied by the capture of manganese, which is needed by microbes as part of the antioxidant defense protein Mn or Zn s uperoxide dismutase and as a catalytic component of several central proteins (where it can also replace the more redox active metal iron). Like iron, both zinc and manganese are transported by N RAMP1, and limitation of Mn availability within the phagolysosome is considered to be an important mechanism by which macrophages confer resistance toward infection with intracellular pathogens. In addition, NRAMP2 (better known as D MT1) transports a myriad of divalent metal ions across membranes in an ATP- and proton-dependent process. DMT1 expression and Fe transport capacity are increased in infl ammatory macrophages ; however, it has not been investigated thus far whether this is also paralleled by increased accumulation of copper, zinc, or manganese in macrophages and whether or not this strengthens antimicrobial activities. The central role of Mn starvation in antimicrobial activity has recently been underpinned by the fi nding that calprotectin-mediated Mn restriction causes maximum growth inhibition of bacteria . Conclusion Transition metals play decisive roles in host–pathogen interactions and affect the outcome of infections, due to their essential nature in pathogen proliferation Impact of Metals on Immune Response and Tolerance 159 and microbial resistance mechanisms to oxidative stress. In addition, these metals are important for host immune cell proliferation and differentiation, as well as for mounting an effective antimicrobial immune response. More efforts are needed to understand metal traffi cking between the host
