Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


important for host immune cell proliferation and differentiation, as well as for mounting an effective antimicrobial immune response. More efforts are needed to understand metal traffi cking between the host and microbe. Specifi cally, we need to disentangle the multiple roles of these t ransition metals for innate and adaptive antimicrobial immune responses as well as for microbes. Thus far, most studies have concentrated on evaluating the role of a single metal in host–pathogen interactions, yet the metabolisms of different transition metals are interconnected in multiple ways. To gain new insights into the cross-regulatory interactions of infection, and ultimately in vivo, the effects of metals like iron, zinc, copper, and manganese need to be evaluated in parallel in host–pathogen interactions. The resulting knowledge will enable novel therapeutic targets for tackling microbes to be identifi ed and provide insight into how modulation of metal metabolism, on either the host or pathogen site, can positively affect the course of infections. Metal-Based Antiparasitic Therapeutics Maribel Navarro and Gonzalo Visbal Abstract This review discusses the potential of metal-based compounds to act as safe and af- fordable drugs in the treatment of important t ropical parasitic illnesses such as C hagas disease, l eishmaniasis, and m alaria. Currently, half the world’s population is estimated to be at risk of contracting these vector-borne diseases, and almost one million people die annually from these diseases. No effective vaccine exists to treat these infectious diseases and available treatments are far from ideal. C oordination metal complexes offer potential in the development of new a ntiparasitic drugs. Indeed, coordination compounds in medicine are a growing and exciting research fi eld, having been used successfully in cancer therapy. As an antiparasitic agent, ferroquine has entered phase II clinical trials against malaria and is an excellent example to encourage the development of antiparasitic metal-based drugs. Insights into the mechanism of actions of metal- based antiparasitic drugs are discussed. Introduction Metals have been used for medicinal purposes since prehistoric and ancient times. Many metals fulfi l essential roles in the human body, and defi ciency of some metals can lead to disease. Moreover, metals such as iron, zinc, copper, manganese, and cobalt are incorporated into proteins or enzymes which facili- tate a number of crucial functions in the body. It is also well known that metals can induce toxicity in humans. Attention to this undesirable effect was brought to light through Paul
