Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


number of crucial functions in the body. It is also well known that metals can induce toxicity in humans. Attention to this undesirable effect was brought to light through Paul Ehrlich’s seminal work in 1910 on chemotherapy (the use of drugs to injure an invading organ- ism without injury to the host). Ehrlich’s formulation of S alvarsan—an arsenic compound—not only provided a successful treatment for syphilis, it marked the entry of metallotherapeutic agents into broad clinical usage. Based on the advances in coordination chemistry, a variety of metal-con- 162 M. Navarro and G. Visbal use. Well-known examples are platinum complexes (cisplatin, carboplatin, ne- daplatin, and oxaliplatin) used to treat c ancer; g old complexes (auranofi n, sol- ganol and myocrisin) used as antiarthritic drugs; silver used as an antimicrobi- al; and antimony (sodium stibogluconate and meglumine antimoniate) used to several metal-based drugs that are based on t itanium, r uthenium, iron, or p lati- num to treat cancer; bis(ethylmaltolato)oxovanadium(IV) as an antidiabetic drug; and ferroquine to treat malaria (Figure 10.1) (Alessio 2011; de Almeida et al. 2013; Farrell 2002; Guo and Sadler 1999; Thompson and Orvig 2003). There is growing interest in metal-based drugs with potential application in a variety of therapeutic areas. Most efforts have been focused on developing drugs for cancer therapies, due to the success of cisplatin in the treatment of testicular and ovarian cancer. This success has inspired and led researchers to search for new metal-based chemotherapies for other illnesses, such as parasitic diseases. Unfortunately, though, the use of the metal complexes in the treatment of tropical parasitic diseases has not advanced at the same speed as cancer research. in the poorest areas of the world. Together they affect about one-third of the world’s total population, causing more than one million deaths per year. Most of the available treatments are often toxic, not very effective, expensive, and sometimes diffi cult to administer. To make things worse, strains resistant to drugs currently in use have emerged (Aguiar et al. 2012; Bhargava and Singh Figure 10.1 Selected metal-based drugs that are currently used clinically for cancer phase for diabetes (h) and malaria (k). Metal-Based Antiparasitic Therapeutics 163 2012). Thus, there is an urgent need to develop new effective, adequate, affordable, and safe chemotherapies to treat parasitic diseases. Metal-based drugs offer a rich source of effective chemotherapeutic agents against the ma- jor protozoan diseases, especially when the drugs are
