Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


adequate, affordable, and safe chemotherapies to treat parasitic diseases. Metal-based drugs offer a rich source of effective chemotherapeutic agents against the ma- jor protozoan diseases, especially when the drugs are designed to attack spe- cifi c parasitic targets. Here, we review efforts to discover novel metal-based antiparasitic agents for the treatment of C hagas disease, leishmaniasis, and malaria—important representatives of tropical diseases. Metal-Based Therapeutics for Trypanosomatidae Trypanosomatidae are parasitic protists that cause Chagas disease and various manifestations of leishmaniasis in humans in many tropical and subtropical parts of the world. Even though these infectious diseases constitute a major (NTDs), due to the minimal levels of investment, on the part of both public and privates sectors, to develop new drugs for treatment. NTDs are concentrated among the world’s poorest populations; worldwide they threaten more than 350 million people, affect up to 20 million, and are responsible for a signifi cant number of deaths annually. American trypanosomiasis, also known as Chagas disease, is endemic throughout Latin America. It is primarily transmitted to humans through the feces of triatomine bugs, also known as “kissing bugs.” Occasionally, the re- sponsible parasite, T rypanosoma cruzi, is transmitted through contaminated food, blood transfusion, and/or passage from an infected mother to her new- born during pregnancy or at childbirth. Leishmaniasis is caused by protozoa parasites from over twenty L eishmania species and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected female phle- botomine sandfl ies. It is currently estimated that 12 million people are infected worldwide.1 There are three main types of the disease: cutaneous and muco- cutaneous leishmaniasis are the most common, and visceral leishmaniasis is fatal if left untreated. An estimated 200,000–400,000 new cases of visceral leishmaniasis occur worldwide each year. Current treatment for Chagas disease is based on nitroheterocyclic drugs (e.g., nifurtimox and benznidazole), which show signifi cant activity only in the acute phase. The fi rst line of treatment for leishmaniasis relies on pentavalent antimonials: sodium stibogluconate (Pentostam®) and meglumine antimoni- ate (Glucantime®) are the most representative drugs in use (see Figure 10.1). Although effective, these antimonials can cause severe side effects. When an- timonials fail, Amphotericin B, pentamidine, or miltefosine are recommended as a second line of treatment for all three forms of leishmaniasis. 164 M. Navarro and G. Visbal At present, there is no effective vaccine for either leishmaniasis or trypano- somiasis and, unfortunately, the treatments for trypanosomatid infections are
