Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


forms of leishmaniasis. 164 M. Navarro and G. Visbal At present, there is no effective vaccine for either leishmaniasis or trypano- somiasis and, unfortunately, the treatments for trypanosomatid infections are far from ideal. This situation clearly calls for the development of new, effec- tive, and nontoxic antiparasitic drugs. Since most of the drugs currently avail- able for both diseases are characterized by poor effi cacy, high toxicity, and increasing resistance, research into metal complexes as potent chemothera- peutic agents against trypanosomiasis and leishmaniasis is, and must remain, a priority. One promising and attractive approach to the development of metallotherapeutic agents to treat parasitic infection was achieved through the application of metal-drug synergism. This concept consists of designing metal compounds that are based on the coordination of a transition metal into organic compounds with known or potential biologic activity. This modifi cation is important within biological systems, due to the binding capability and reactivity of the transition metals, which are determined by the d-orbitals. These d-orbitals allow the design and preparation of a wide variety of coordination and organometallic compounds with different geometries (coordination spheres), oxidation states (redox potential), and use of diverse kinds of ligands. These geometries lead to metal complexes with enhanced lipophilicity, different kinetic and thermodynamic properties toward biological receptors, and the ability to interact with intracellular biomolecules, etc. Such combinations can translate into enhanced activity of the parental organic drug. This activity enhancement may be related to the stabilization of the organic drug by coordination to the metal ion, which leads to a longer residence time of the drug in the organism, thus allowing it to reach the biological targets more effi ciently. Another important effect of this combination is that it may also result in a decrease in the t oxicity of the metal ion, due to complexation with the organic drugs, which makes it less available for undesirable reactions that lead to toxicity. Furthermore, these metallodrugs are capable of affecting multiple parasitic targets simultaneously. This approach was followed by Sánchez-Delgado and colleagues, and led to the discovery of metal complexes through the coordination of metal-frag- ment complex to clotrimazole (CTZ) and ketoconazole (KTZ). These ligands, CTZ and KTZ, have been shown to inhibit effectively the growth of the T. cruzi parasite. Several metal complexes were achieved using metals such as ruthenium, copper, rhodium, platinum, and gold. All of these metal-CTZs and metal-KTZs were able to
