Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


growth of the T. cruzi parasite. Several metal complexes were achieved using metals such as ruthenium, copper, rhodium, platinum, and gold. All of these metal-CTZs and metal-KTZs were able to inhibit the proliferation of the epimastigotes form of T. cruzi considerably better than the CTZ and KTZ ligands. The most active compound of this group of metal-CTZ complexes was RuCl (CTZ) (Figure 2 2 10.2a). This promising metal complex affects the regular function of the sterol biosynthesis when CTZ is liberated and attacks the parasite’s DNA through covalent interaction of the Ru motif, thus demonstrating the metal-drug synergistic concept defi ned above (Sánchez-Delgado and Anzellotti 2004; Navarro et al. 2010; Gambino and Otero 2012). Metal-Based Antiparasitic Therapeutics 165 Figure 10.2 Selected metal-based therapeutic agents for trypanosomiasis (a, b) and leishmaniasis (c, d, e, f). The Sánchez-Delgado group has continued to use this successful concept and has recently extended it to include the use of ancillary ligands, which provide the leader Ru- CTZ complex with better and desirable physicochemical and biological properties. Accordingly, organometallic Ru-CTZs were developed that displayed high antiparasitic activity in vitro against T. cruzi epimastigotes and Leishmania major promastigotes. Ru[(η6-pcymene)Cl (CTZ) ] (Figure 2 2 10.2b) was the most promising complex; it increased the activity of CTZ against L. major and T. cruzi, with no appreciable toxicity to human osteoblasts (Martínez et al. 2012). Similar organometallic compounds have been reported for Ru-KTZ . Following this approach, the bioactive ligand, 5-nitrofuryl- and 5-nitroacroleine-containing thiosemicarbazones, has been incorporated into Ru, Pt, and Pd complexes, and it was found that Pt(II) and Pd(II) complexes were more active in vitro on T. cruzi epimastigotes than Nifurtimox and the corresponding free ligand. Another interesting ligand, 2-mercaptopyridine N-oxide (mpo), also coordinated to several metals (e.g., p alladium, v anadium, and g old; Figure 10.2c) and showed signifi cantly increased activity compared to mpo sodium salt on epimastigotes of different T. cruzi strains. Reported metal-mpo complexes showed a clear correlation between parasite inhibition and NADH fumarate reductase inhibition, thus highlighting this enzyme as the main target of these complexes as well. Other organometallic compounds of iridium and rhodium with pentamidine (antileishmanial agents) have also been shown to be active against L. don- ovani promastigotes; some were even more active than pentamidine isethion- ate. A synergistic effect was noted when this complex was administered in combination with pentamidine, amphotericin B, or paromomycin. The Pt(II)- pentamidine complexes
