Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


were even more active than pentamidine isethion- ate. A synergistic effect was noted when this complex was administered in combination with pentamidine, amphotericin B, or paromomycin. The Pt(II)- pentamidine complexes appear to be less active than Rh(I) and Ir(I) analogs 166 M. Navarro and G. Visbal against amastigotes of L. donovani. In addition, nitroimidazole dithiocarba- mates, benznidazole dithiocarbamates, and related ligands coordinated to plati- num, osmium, and rhodium displayed a moderate activity against L. donovani. An interesting approach has been developed using gold(III), palladium (II), and rhenium(V) cyclometallated complexes against T. cruzi and three Leishmania species: L. major, L. mexicana, and L. donovani. Preliminary data indicate that these metal complexes target parasite cysteine proteases. Another rational strategy was based on the c oordination of sterol hydrazone ligands to p latinum (Figure 10.2d). These steroid ligands have been shown to be specifi c inhibitors of (S)-adenosyl-L-methionine: Δ24-sterol methyl transfer- ase (SMT), an enzyme which catalyzes the incorporation of this alkyl group to produce the main sterol leishmania’s parasites (ergosterol and 24-alkylated ste- rol analogs), is necessary for their survival and growth. SMT inhibitors should only affect parasitic cells, without damaging cells from higher eukaryotes, therefore bypassing any undesirable clinical side effect . Other types of metal complexes were developed as antiparasitic agents based on two facts: 1. The metabolic pathways of kinetoplastid parasites are similar to those present in tumor cells. 2. Selected antitumor metal-containing complexes, such as c isplatin (functions by binding to DNA and disrupting DNA replication), have been evaluated against T. rhodiense and T. cruzi. These results, along with the fact that many antiprotozoal drugs bind to DNA, have led some to propose that, in general, every DNA-interacting compound could be active against parasites . This motivated us to design DNA metallointercalators that could show activity against some of these pathogenic parasites through their interaction with DNA. This strategy was based on the use of polypyridyl ligands (typically intercalators), such as phen (phenantroline), 1,10-phenantroline-5,6-dione (phendione), dppz (dipyrido[3,2-a:2′,3′-c]phenazine), and dpq (dipyrido[3,2-a:2′,3′-h]quinoxo- line), which were coordinated to copper, silver, gold, palladium, and ruthenium to obtain a series of metal compounds: • [Cu(dpq)(NO )]NO 3 3 • [Cu(dpq) (NO )]NO 2 3 3 • [Cu(dppz)(NO )]NO 3 3 • [Cu(dppz) (NO )]NO 2 3 3 • [Ag(dpq) ]NO 2 3 • [Ag(dppz) ]NO 2 3 • [Cu(dppz) ]BF 2 4 • [Au(dppz) ]Cl 2 3 • PdCl (Phen) • [Ru(phen) phendione](PF
