Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


)]NO 2 3 3 • [Ag(dpq) ]NO 2 3 • [Ag(dppz) ]NO 2 3 • [Cu(dppz) ]BF 2 4 • [Au(dppz) ]Cl 2 3 • PdCl (Phen) • [Ru(phen) phendione](PF ) . 2 6 2 Metal-Based Antiparasitic Therapeutics 167 The biological activity of these metal complexes against L. (V.) braziliensis and L. (L) mexicana was evaluated, and all of them showed leishmanicidal activity. This biological activity was higher for the metal-dppz complexes. In addition, the complexes with two coordinated molecules of the planar ligand were more active than those with one. [Cu(dppz) ]BF , which corresponds to Cu(I) com- 2 4 plex, displayed a higher leishmanicidal effect than those observed with Cu(II). In contrast, Ag complexes were less active than complexes of Cu(II), whereas complexes of palladium and ruthenium showed moderate activity. [Au(dppz) ] Cl was the most effective complex in the series (Figure 10.2e): its strong in vitro activity against L. (L) mexicana could be related to its ability to inter- act with DNA through an intercalative mode. Other DNA metallointercalator (2,2′:6′2′′-terpyridine) Pt(II) complexes and analogs have produced remarkable growth inhibition of L. donovani. These complexes exploit the intercalative DNA properties of the terpyridine ligand along with the covalent binding ability of the Pt(II) center. Similar complexes using mixed-ligand vanadyl complexes, [VIVO(L -2H)(L )]—where L is a tridentate salycylaldehyde semicarbazone 2 1 1 derivative and L is dppz as coligand—showed signifi cant activity against T. cruzi and were as active as Nifurtimox. A recent report showed [Cu(CH COO) (dppz) ]CH COO and [Zn(dppz) ](BF ) to have signifi cant activity against a 2 3 2 4 2 visceratropic L. infantum strain and to be more active than the reference drug miltefosine. In addition, their DNA–intercalation interaction correlates with leishmanicidal activity. Trivalent antimony(III) and bismuth(III) complexes with the dppz were synthesized, characterized, and evaluated against the pro- mastigote form of Sb(III)-sensitive and Sb(III)-resistant L. infantum chagasi and L. amazonensis strains. Both complexes were more effective than dppz alone in inhibiting the growth of L eishmania promastigotes. The lack of cross- resistance to the Sb(III)-dppz (Figure 10.2f) complex together with the much lower activity of antimonyl tartrate, SbCl , and BiCl strongly support the 3 3 model that the metal is not active by itself but rather it improves the activity of dppz through complexation (Benítez et al. 2013; Lizarazo-Jaimes et al. 2012; Madureira et al. 2013; Navarro 2009; Navarro et
