Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


not active by itself but rather it improves the activity of dppz through complexation (Benítez et al. 2013; Lizarazo-Jaimes et al. 2012; Madureira et al. 2013; Navarro 2009; Navarro et al. 2007). Using a different approach, Cu complexes with fl uorinated β-diketones were synthesized and tested against promastigotes of L. amazonensis and showed inhibition of trypanosomatid-specifi c trypanothione reductase. It was found that the highly lipophilic and redox activity of these Cu derivatives increased toxicity toward promastigotes . Copper and zinc with sulfonamides that contain 8-aminoquinoline ligands showed activity against L. chagasi and L. brasilensis (Everson da Silva et al. 2010). Interesting results have been reported for Ag nanoparticles (Baiocco et al. 2011) and Au nanoparticles (de Almeida and Carabineiro 2013) in the inhibition of leishmaniasis promastigotes. In summary, based on the above discussion, it is clear that the presented metal-based drugs are designed to attack important and specifi c parasitic tar- gets of the T. cruzi and Leishmania. Due to the well-known complexity of these 168 M. Navarro and G. Visbal efforts are thus needed to develop a rational design for an affordable and safe drug that will simultaneously attack several specifi c and/or selective targets in these parasites. Taking into account the metal-drug synergism strategy, metal- based drugs could play an important role in this research and drug design. Metal-Based Therapeutics for Malaria M alaria is a major cause of illness and death in children and adults who live in tropical countries, in particular, Africa. It is one of the world’s most ancient diseases and is one of the most devastating parasitic infections known to af- 207 million episodes of malaria occurred in 2012 and approximately 627,000 people died. Despite important efforts made in research and the investment in its control, prevention, and treatment, malaria remains a primary cause of mortality and morbidity throughout the Tropics. Malaria is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected female mos- quitoes from more than thirty anopheline species. Five species of parasites of the genus P lasmodium are infectious to humans: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale, P. malariae, and P. knowlesi. Malaria caused by P. falciparum is the most deadly. The most successful treatment used to be chloroquine (CQ); it was con- sidered the ideal drug, due to its low cost, high effi cacy against all species of the Plasmodium parasite, and lack of signifi cant side effects. However, CQ-
