Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


was con- sidered the ideal drug, due to its low cost, high effi cacy against all species of the Plasmodium parasite, and lack of signifi cant side effects. However, CQ- resistant malaria parasites started to emerge in the late 1950s, spreading from Asia to Africa and South America, reducing its effi ciency as a fi rst line antima- larial drug and resulting in major setbacks to the effective control of malaria. Fortunately, very effective artemisinin-derivative (dihydroartemisinin, artesu- nate, and artemethe) drugs replaced chloroquine. However, monotherapy is not recommended for different reasons. Currently, malaria is treated with a com- bination of two or more drugs that have different modes of action to provide an adequate cure rate and delay development of resistance. Artemisinin-based compounds are combined with drugs including lumefantrine, mefl oquine, amodiaquine, piperaquine, and chlorproguanil/dapsone (Sinclair et al. 2009; WHO 2013b). At least three different strategies have been developed to ad- dress this public health problem: 1. The indiscriminate use of insecticides has been discontinued, due to insects’ resistance to these chemicals and environmental impact. It should be noted, however, that renewed interest has been shown in the use of indoor residual spraying as a primary vector control intervention to reduce and interrupt transmission in African countries. Metal-Based Antiparasitic Therapeutics 169 2. Vaccination is one of the most effective modes of treatment available, yet despite many efforts, effective vaccines are lacking. At the time of writing trial of a new malaria vaccine developed by GlaxoSmithKline, which has shown some effectiveness in children over an 18-month period. 3. The use of c hemotherapy, discussed here, focusing on metal-based drugs. Metal-drug synergism has been exploited to obtain effective antimalarial metal agents. In line with this, chloroquine was modifi ed through the incorporation of a transition metal into the molecular structure. Several metal complexes were synthesized, characterized, and evaluated. The fi rst ones, RhCl(COD)CQ and [RuCl (CQ)] (Figure 10.3a), demonstrated that c oordination to ruthenium 2 2 is effective in circumventing the resistance of two CQ-resistant strains of P. falciparum (FcB1 and FcB2). In vivo experiments showed that [RuCl (CQ)] 2 2 caused a reduction of the parasitemia by 94% at a concentration equivalent to 1 ED (50% effective levels) of chloroquine diphosphate. Encouraged by these results, the Sanchez-Delgado group varied the ancillary ligands and over- all charge of the complexes, leading to new organometallic Ru-CQ complex- es (Figure 10.3b), which showed an
