Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Encouraged by these results, the Sanchez-Delgado group varied the ancillary ligands and over- all charge of the complexes, leading to new organometallic Ru-CQ complex- es (Figure 10.3b), which showed an enhanced activity against CQ-resistant strains of the parasite. Figure 10.3 Selected metal-based therapeutic agents for malaria. The main mechanism of the action found for these metal-CQ complexes is the inhibition of the β-hematin formation. 170 M. Navarro and G. Visbal In other efforts to obtain metal complexes of greater effi cacy, a Au com- plex of CQ—[Au(PPh )(CQ)]PF (Figure 10.3c)—was synthesized. It caused 3 6 marked inhibition of the in vitro growth of P. berghei and was also very effec- tive against two CQ-resistant FcB1 and FcB2 strains of P. falciparum, display- ing greater activity than the corresponding chloroquine diphosphate. Motivated by this higher activity, a series of new Au-CQ complexes were developed by coordinating gold to chloroquine with different changes in the structure of the [Au(PPh )(CQ)]PF complex. These changes included vari- 3 6 ations of the phosphine ligand with the purpose of inducing changes in the electronic and steric properties, variations of the counter anion (e.g., nitrate), variations of the Au oxidation state, such as Au(I) and Au(III), or using biologi- cally important ligands such as 1-thio-β-D-glucose-2,3,4,6-tetraacetate. The highest activity in FcB1 and W2 strains was obtained for [Au(PEt )(CQ)]PF , 3 6 while Au(III) complexes such as [Au(Cl) (CQ) ]Cl showed excellent activity 2 2 in strains K1. Chloroquine has been coordinated to other metals such as iridi- um, p latinum, t itanium, and copper, which have displayed moderate activities. To gain insight into the possible mechanism of action of the metal-CQ de- rivatives, two potential targets of action accepted for the chloroquine have been evaluated: the inhibition of hemozoin (malarial pigment) formation and DNA interaction. Chloroquine is believed to act by concentrating in the para- site digestive vacuole and preventing the crystallization of toxic heme into hemozoin, leading to membrane damage and parasite death. It is uncertain how this drug’s mechanism operates, but it is well established that chloroquine forms complexes with h ematin in solution and is an inhibitor of β-hematin for- mation. The main mechanism of the action found for the metal-CQ complexes that were evaluated address the inhibition of β-hematin formation, specifi cally in interfacing. In terms of Au and Ru concentrations in these drugs, and the likelihood of adverse effects on the
