Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


were evaluated address the inhibition of β-hematin formation, specifi cally in interfacing. In terms of Au and Ru concentrations in these drugs, and the likelihood of adverse effects on the patient, Au and Ru complexes have thus far only been tested in vitro and in vivo in mice. Thus, it is currently not pos- sible to predict the likelihood of adverse effects in humans. More studies are needed before the possible concentration of these potential antimalarial drugs is known. Using a similar strategy, primaquine, mefl oquine, and amodiaquine metal derivatives were prepared and evaluated as antimalarial drugs. These com- pounds, however, did not show signifi cant reduction in parasitemia. Another interesting and successful metal-based strategy for malaria treat- ment involved the introduction of the ferrocenyl moiety into the lateral side chain of chloroquine, known as f erroquine (FQ, SSR97193; see Figure 10.1). FQ is extremely active against both CQ-susceptible and CQ-resistant P. falciparum, and is being developed by Sanofi -Aventis; it entered phase is the fi rst organometallic drug: a ferrocenyl group covalently fl anked by a 4-aminoquinoline and a basic alkylamine. An extensive investigation was car- ried out in search of analogs with better activities; indeed a library of ~150 Metal-Based Antiparasitic Therapeutics 171 antimalarial complexes has been prepared based on ferrocene-conjugate an- alogs of known antimalarial drugs, such as artemesinin, atovaquone, mefl o- quine, and quinine, among others. Ferroquine was also modifi ed in the secondary and tertiary amines. It was combined with thiosemicarbazones and associated with glutathione reductase inhibitors. Another interesting approach was the study of chloroquine diphos- phate associated with ferrocene carboxylic acid via a salt bridge. A rutheno- cene analog of FQ was also reported. Mixed CQ and/or FQ metal complexes— [RhCl(COD)L], [Au(L)(C F )NO ], and [Au(L)(PPh )NO ] where L = CQ or 6 5 3 3 3 FQ—were also synthesized. All of these compounds have shown very promis- ing antimalarial activities, which implies that the presence of the ferrocenyl moiety in these structures causes signifi cant changes that moderate the attack by malaria parasites. The pharmacokinetic profi le of FQ seems to cover (together with appropri- ate partner) both cure and posttreatment of malaria prophylaxis. The mecha- nism of action and the induction of resistance to FQ have been studied in detail by Biot and colleagues. Its mechanism of action may be related to a strong inhibition of the hemozoin formation that
