Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


induction of resistance to FQ have been studied in detail by Biot and colleagues. Its mechanism of action may be related to a strong inhibition of the hemozoin formation that leads to the accumulation of toxic heme (free or complexed with FQ), and thus to the death of malaria parasite. In addition, possible interactions between the malaria pigment and FQ may desta- bilize hemozoin, thereby irreversibly damaging the membrane. Evidence was found which shows that FQ accumulates within the digestive vacuole along with sulfur-containing compound(s). As accumulation of sulfur most likely arises from the infl ux of g lutathione and its accumulation, FQ (under the oxi- dizing conditions of the digestive vacuole) should be capable of undergoing redox reactions, thus causing lipid oxidation. As a consequence, FQ (unlike CQ) might be capable of producing oxidative stress. T rioxaquines represent a new class of antimalarial agents. These are hybrid molecules that contain two covalently linked pharmacophores: 1,2,4-trioxane, as in artemisinin, and 4-aminoquinoline, as in chloroquine. The fi rst genera- tion of trioxaquines was found to be highly active against CQ-resistant strains of P. falciparum. Ferrocene and trioxane derivatives have also been reported, as well as their biological studies which showed that they are active in vitro against CQ-resistant P. falciparum. Selected metallodrugs (e.g., cisplatin, auranofi n, aurothiomalate, and NAMI-A) have also been evaluated as antimalarial agents. They show differ- ent potencies but effectively reduce P. falciparum growth in vitro, implying high and broad parasite sensitivity to these metals. Recent reviews have been published on metallopharmaceutics agents developed to fi ght against malaria parasites (Navarro et al. 2012; Biot et al. 2012; Salas et al. 2013). Another rational strategy involves the use of Ru-based compounds de- signed to deliver c arbon monoxide and confer robust protection against ma- laria . Interestingly, this class of metallodrugs, referred to as 172 M. Navarro and G. Visbal CO-releasing molecules, provide host disease tolerance; that is, they protect the host from developing severe forms of disease without an overt effect on the pathogen itself . Conclusions and Outlook It is clear that the commercially available drugs for the treatment of leishma- niasis, Chagas disease, and malaria are very limited and far from ideal. There is thus an urgent need to develop new, effective drugs to aid the millions of people suffering from these parasitic diseases, who are waiting for effective, safe, and affordable treatments. Based on
