Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


an urgent need to develop new, effective drugs to aid the millions of people suffering from these parasitic diseases, who are waiting for effective, safe, and affordable treatments. Based on the knowledge that has been gained from analyzing the rationale behind metal-based antiparasitic agents designed to be more active and less toxic than the organic compounds described herein, it is possible to envis- age that c oordination metal complexes may offer an excellent way to discover and develop new antiparasitic drugs. However, metal-based therapeutics faces two hurdles: not only must they fi ght against parasitic disease, they must also overcome the prejudice that metals imply toxicity. Metal-based drugs should be treated separately according to their individual biological activity and toxi- cological properties. This might help attract the attention of pharmaceutical companies and spur more funding for this promising research fi eld. Undoubtedly, this important area of research needs to be accompanied by fi rm knowledge and understanding of the biology of these parasites. Fortunately, nowadays, a great number of protein targets have been identifi ed, and novel metal compounds can be designed to attack specifi c parasitic targets. These advances may have an important impact on the general strategy for the discovery and development of effective metal-based antiparasitic agents with lower toxicity. The ideal metal-based antiparasitic drug will only be achieved if future work is coordinated. Multidisciplinary groups are needed and should include organic and inorganic synthetic chemists, biologists, pharmacologists, toxicologists, and physicians. Research efforts should be combined and knowledge must be shared. Most importantly, these efforts must be able to rely on fi nancial support from diverse research programs and the pharmaceutical industry. Impact of Lifestyle on Metal Exposure, Homeostasis, and Associated Diseases George V. Dedoussis Abstract Unhealthy lifestyle factors (e.g., cigarette smoking, excessive alcohol drinking, long working hours, reduced sleep, physical inactivity, obesogenic diets) and psychologi- cal stress contribute to c ardiovascular disease, c ancer, and other causes of mortality in industrialized countries. Many of these factors correlate with alterations in the ho- sential for human antioxidant defense and immune function. Metal levels consumed by humans are infl uenced by the mineral composition of soil used to grow food as well as weather conditions, the composition of water for irrigation, and agricultural practices (e.g., types and amounts of f ertilizers used). In some cases, major sources of trace metals derive from environmental pollution that results from industrial and
