Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


for irrigation, and agricultural practices (e.g., types and amounts of f ertilizers used). In some cases, major sources of trace metals derive from environmental pollution that results from industrial and other anthropogenic activities (e.g., cadmium from agricultural fertilizers). Food processing and packaging also play a role (e.g., aluminum and t in from canned foods). Although some individuals encounter toxic metals mainly in the workplace, for most people pri- mary exposure of toxic and essential metals occurs through diet. The most common foods in our diet that contain metals are fi sh and seafood (mercury, copper and zinc), vegetables and grains ( cadmium, magnesium, and m olybdenum), chocolate and coffee ( cobalt, copper, and n ickel), fruit (l ead), nuts (s elenium), and mushrooms (vanadium). This chapter discusses the impact that lifestyle has on exposure to metals, homeostasis, and associated diseases. Introduction As of conception and throughout life, humans experience a broad range of fects of these exposures depend not only on dose but also on how they interact with each other as well as the characteristics of the individual (e.g., age, sex, 174 G. V. Dedoussis genotype). Trace metals are ubiquitous environmental pollutants with known toxic properties. Human exposure to these chemicals may occur occupation- ally, environmentally, or through dietary intake. In the general population, food and water are the most common metal sources, while cigarette smoking is an additional relevant source of exposure to trace metals such as cadmium (Cd) and chromium (Cr). The relationship between chemical elements in rainwater and the frequency of hospitalizations for gastric and duodenal peptic ulcers as well as for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) was studied on the population of the province of Opole, Poland during the years 2000–2002. A high positive correlation was found between hospitalized cases of gastric peptic ulcers or CML in women exposed to cadmium and lead contained in rainwater (Szygula et al. 2011; Tubek et al. 2011). G ender is a factor that affects the impact of trace metal exposure. For instance, statistically higher amounts of s ilver (Ag), m an- ganese (Mn), and lead (Pb) have been found in females in some communities. This has been attributed to traditional lifestyles: wearing large amounts of Ag jewelry, cooking with colored Al pots and kitchen utensils glazed with trace metals . The impact of cooking on trace metal exposure was recently demonstrated through the pan-frying and grilling of fi sh
