Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


colored Al pots and kitchen utensils glazed with trace metals . The impact of cooking on trace metal exposure was recently demonstrated through the pan-frying and grilling of fi sh and shellfi sh: cooked products had elevated metal concentrations compared to the fresh un- cooked specimens . The cooked marine species studied were shown to be good sources of the essential metals iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), and chromium and also contained low enough levels of the toxic metals Fetuses and neonates are especially vulnerable to toxic chemicals because of the immaturity of their d etoxifi cation systems. Intake of trace metals per unit of body weight, however, is generally higher in children than in adults . A large number of epidemiological studies have as- sociated early exposure to lead, mercury, arsenic (As), and cadmium with in- tal , and endocrine disorders . ductivity of more than 2 billion people worldwide. Fortifi cation of foods of- fers one way to address micronutrient defi ciencies in a cost-effective manner . In addition, during storage or baking, it does not pose any risk of substantial deteriorative effects on native mineral contents in whole wheat fl our—a highly preferred food carrier for the fortifi cation of minerals in the developing world. Social and environmental epidemiologists underline the synergies between the biochemical environment and the social environment and stress the im- portance of exploring the role of environmental pollution as a contributing factor in health disparities (O’Neill et al. 2007). The socio-spatial distribution of environmental quality reveals that poor people and deprived communities experience accumulated exposure to multiple, suboptimal environmental con- ditions (Evans and Kantrowitz 2002): proximity to hazardous waste facilities Lifestyle: Metal Exposure, Homeostasis, and Associated Diseases 175 and busy roads, fl ood risk, and air quality (Walker and Burningham 2011). For trace metals, negative associations have also been found between socio- economic status and internal concentrations of lead and cadmium in adult populations in the United States. The negative relation between socioeconomic status and cadmium or lead (where higher socioeconomic status equals lower exposure) may largely be explained by age, gender, smoking behavior, and the residential area of the adolescent . Hair is considered a suitable b iomarker of chronic exposure to many toxic elements (Ag, Al, As, Au, Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, Hg, Mn, Ni, Pb, Se, Tl, and Zn) and can thus be applied to environmental biomonitoring and forensic medicine .
