Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


toxic elements (Ag, Al, As, Au, Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, Hg, Mn, Ni, Pb, Se, Tl, and Zn) and can thus be applied to environmental biomonitoring and forensic medicine . This technique was employed in a recent study by Dongarra et al. (2012), conducted in Sicily, and demonstrates how trace mineral levels measured in children’s scalp hair varied as a result of environmental contexts. For example, a signifi cant percentage (10–30%) of hair samples taken from one site was found to contain concentrations of a luminum, rubidium, lead, ar- senic, and uranium that exceeded the coverage intervals. This is not surprising, since the rocks and therefore soils from this area contain polymetallic sulpho- salt/sulfi de mineralizations. Facilitated by the considerable presence of CO in solution, the volcano Mount Etna contains concentrations of c hromium, a nti- mony, nickel, uranium, and zinc in concentrations that are far higher than those commonly found in Sicilian groundwater . It is well known that during infection, along with immune system activa- tion, a sequential series of alterations in metabolism occurs, including changes in trace element balance . The host’s acute response to infection generally includes increased synthesis of metal-binding proteins and a concomitant fl ux of trace elements between blood and tissues. Necessary for the proper functioning of the immune system, metal ions may have a signifi - cant infl uence on the interaction between bacteria and host. Below I present a short description of the most common trace metals as well as their relation with dietary intake and, when data are available, lifestyle and human activities. Arsenic Human exposure to inorganic a rsenic, a known carcinogen, occurs predomi- nately through diet and drinking water. Early in pregnancy, moderate exposure to As-contaminated drinking water has been associated with an increased risk for experiencing nausea, vomiting, and abdominal cramping . Studies in mice have shown that As exposure during pregnancy reduced the clearance of and exacerbated the infl ammatory response to infl uenza A, and resulted in acute and long-term changes in lung mechanics and airway struc- ture . Long-term exposure to high levels of arsenic is as- sociated with increased risk for c ardiovascular disease and mortality, although 176 G. V. Dedoussis the risk from long-term exposure to low or moderate As levels (< 100 μg/l in drinking water) is unclear. Dietary exposure to organic forms of a rsenic occurs primarily through the ingestion
