Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


from long-term exposure to low or moderate As levels (< 100 μg/l in drinking water) is unclear. Dietary exposure to organic forms of a rsenic occurs primarily through the ingestion of seafood. Many researchers have reported that urinary dimethylated As levels are increased by seafood intake. In Korea, seaweed is consumed by itself as an ingredient in soup stock and processed foods. Thus, Korean dietary habits may be responsible for the increased uri- nary dimethylated As levels that have been reported within this population . Seaweed is also consumed in other Asian countries (e.g., Japan and China). Accordingly, urinary dimethylated As levels may be higher in East Asian countries than in Europe and North America. Cadmium Cadmium, a toxic and carcinogenic heavy metal, is released into the environ- ment as a result of industrial and agricultural activities (Jarup and Akesson 2009). Multiple mechanisms potentially link cadmium with carcinogenesis, including oxidative stress and infl ammation , interference with DNA repair , and alterations of DNA methylation . Recently it was suggested that H IV-infected patients have higher levels of cadmium in their blood when compared to non-HIV in- fected individuals, although the cause of this accumulation remains undeter- mined. Increased levels of cadmium in HIV-infected individuals could contrib- ute to the higher prevalence of c hronic diseases among these subjects (Xu et al. 2013). In addition, Cd-induced oxidative stress directly increases the ability of infl uenza virus to replicate in host cells, thus suggesting that exposure to heavy metals could result in increased severity of virus-induced respiratory diseases . Smoking is a major source for Cd exposure . However, diet can signifi cantly infl uence Cd uptake. Mollusks, crustaceans, cereals, bread, potatoes, and leafy vegetables have been described as the major dietary Cd sources. Together, vegetables and grains contribute daily, on average, 66% of estimated dietary cadmium. Higher Cd levels have been observed in indi- viduals who consume less discretionary foods (i.e., sweets, bakery products, processed meats, snack foods, etc.) . These individuals may have a healthier lifestyle because of their higher fi ber intake, as another observational study demonstrated that high fi ber intake inhibited the gastrointestinal absorption of cadmium. Women are known to be more signifi cantly impacted by Cd exposure than men. Although only approximately 5% of cadmium ingested through food is actually absorbed, Cd absorption is potentiated by low Fe stores. Lower Fe stores of women may,
