Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Cd exposure than men. Although only approximately 5% of cadmium ingested through food is actually absorbed, Cd absorption is potentiated by low Fe stores. Lower Fe stores of women may, in part, be the reason that women are consistently ob- served to have higher average urine and blood Cd concentrations (Akesson et al. 2002). Cadmium and Fe homeostasis have been linked by other studies. Lifestyle: Metal Exposure, Homeostasis, and Associated Diseases 177 For example, plasma f erritin levels were inversely related with cadmium. This is probably due to the up-regulation of transporters caused by low Fe stores infl uencing Cd absorption . In addition to the g ender-specifi c differential accumulation of cadmium ob- served by previous studies, Cd levels within the human body are infl uenced by other biological factors. For example, Cd levels increase with age. This is primarily an effect of the very long half-life at which this element is retained within the human body. A recent study has shown evidence that an NMR-based metabolic profi ling strategy in an uncontrolled human population is capable of identifying intermediate biomarkers of response to toxicants at true environmental concentrations. In particular, c itrate levels re- tained a signifi cant correlation to urinary cadmium and smoking status after controlling for age and sex. Oxidative stress (as determined by urinary 8-oxo- deoxyguanosine levels) was elevated in individuals with high Cd exposure, thus supporting the hypothesis that trace metal accumulation causes mitochon- drial dysfunction. Cobalt Cobalt (Co), an essential element, is a central bonding atom for v itamin B12 (also called cobalamin), which is necessary for the metabolism of folates and fatty acids. The biological functions and activities of cobalt play a role in erythropoiesis, the regulation of various phosphoprotein phosphatases, and as a substitute for zinc in metalloenzymes. Recently, Hoffman et al. (2013) demonstrated that certain Co(II) and Cu(II) metal-based complexes possess antimicrobial action with notable selectivity and marked potency against Mycobacterium tuberculosis, including multidrug-resistant strains. These com- plexes were confi rmed to be bacteriocidal and not affected by effl ux inhibitors. In food of animal origin, cobalt is found as cobalamin, whereas in plants it is present in an inorganic form. The gastrointestinal absorption of cobalt in hu- mans is highly variable (18–97%), depending on its chemical form. The high- est mean concentrations are found in chocolate (0.139 mg/kg), offal (0.091 mg/kg), and butter (0.046 mg/kg). The mean exposure of
