Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


highly variable (18–97%), depending on its chemical form. The high- est mean concentrations are found in chocolate (0.139 mg/kg), offal (0.091 mg/kg), and butter (0.046 mg/kg). The mean exposure of a French popula- tion to cobalt was estimated at 0.18 μg/kg/day in adults and 0.31 μg/kg/day in children. The main contributor to cobalt intake in adults was coffee (11%). For children, chocolate was the main contributor (12%) . While no Co defi ciency has been shown in humans, excess Co exposure could be detrimental. In humans, cardiomyopathies were reported in the 1960s in heavy drinkers of beer to which Co had been added as a foam stabilizer. It was calculated that these drinkers had ingested an average of 0.04–0.14 mg Co/kg/ day for several years. However, the risk that has been associated with dietary exposure to cobalt does not seem to constitute a major public health issue with regard to threshold effects. 178 G. V. Dedoussis Copper Copper (Cu) is an essential redox active metal that is potentially toxic in ex- cess. Multicellular organisms acquire copper from the diet and must regulate Cu uptake, storage, distribution, and export at both the cellular and organismal levels. Systemic Cu defi ciency can be fatal, as seen in M enkes disease patients. Conversely, Cu toxicity occurs in patients with Wilson disease. In addition, Cu dyshomeostasis has been implicated in neurodegenerative disorders such as A lzheimer disease. It has been reported that smoking increases plasma levels of copper and that these levels are positively correlated with Cu/Zn- SOD activ- ity. Both plasma Cu and Cu/Zn-SOD activities have been shown to increase in response to the chronic infl ammation of the respiratory tract found in smokers (Northrop-Clewes and Thurnham 2007). In addition to environmental factors, such as smoking, there are several signifi cant dietary sources of copper. In a recent study, Cu, Mn, Se, and Zn levels were determined in fresh, canned, and frozen fi sh and shellfi sh prod- ucts . The highest concentrations of copper were found in crustacean species (shrimp and prawn), as they have hemocyanin (a Cu- containing protein) which functions as an oxygen transport molecule. Data from the Nutrient Data Laboratory of the U.S. Department of Agriculture indi- cate that dark chocolate ranges from 1.0 to 1.8 mg Cu/100 g, depending on the content of cocoa solids. Thus 100 g of dark chocolate can provide more than the r ecommended
