Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


dark chocolate ranges from 1.0 to 1.8 mg Cu/100 g, depending on the content of cocoa solids. Thus 100 g of dark chocolate can provide more than the r ecommended dietary allowance (RDA) of copper (0.9 mg), and the dark- est chocolate can double that amount. Even when diluted with sugar and milk, chocolate can provide an appreciable supplement of copper. Copper plays an important role in public health. A considerable body of evidence from laboratory-based studies demonstrates that Cu alloys are ef- fi cacious against a diverse range of pathogenic microorganisms. Early stud- ies demonstrated a rapid killing of Escherichia coli O157, Listeria monocy- togenes, and methicillin-resistant S taphylococcus aureus in the presence of copper (Noyce et al. 2006; Wilks et al. 2006; Warnes et al. 2012). This was followed by observations that both vegetative cells and spores of virulent tox- acquired infections, were destroyed after Cu treatment . It was previously demonstrated that a family of small peptides called trefoil factors (TFFs), implicated in the maintenance of the integrity of gastrointes- tinal tissue, are able specifi cally to bind Cu ions at the carboxy-terminus and that Cu binding favors the homodimerization of the peptide, thus enhancing its motogenic activity . The fi nding that copper can in- fl uence expression , biological activity, and structure of TFF1 prompted researchers to use copper to investigate the effect of homodi- merization of TFF1 on the interaction between H elicobacter pylori and the peptide . Thus, it was demonstrated that the Cu-TFF1 Lifestyle: Metal Exposure, Homeostasis, and Associated Diseases 179 complex promotes H. pylori colonization of gastric epithelial cells and a mu- cus-secreting cell line . Iron The adult human body contains 3–4 g of iron, approximately 70% of which is present in hemoglobin (Hb) in red blood cells and myoglobin in muscle. Iron is instrumental for the transport of oxygen around the body and is an essential component of many enzymes, such as cytochromes, where it plays a role in e lectron transport, respiration, and hormone synthesis. Iron defi ciency affects almost 50% of the population worldwide, making it the most common nutri- tional defi ciency (Zimmermann and Hurrell 2007). I ron-d efi ciency anemia is the end state of Fe defi ciency, and there is a clear gender difference with Fe de- fi ciency being most prevalent among women (Zimmermann and Hurrell 2007). Recently, it was demonstrated that H.
