Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Fe defi ciency, and there is a clear gender difference with Fe de- fi ciency being most prevalent among women (Zimmermann and Hurrell 2007). Recently, it was demonstrated that H. pylori infection in children infl uences the serum ferritin and Hb concentrations, markers of early depletion of Fe stores and anemia, respectively . In addition, Fe overload is as- sociated with signifi cant morbidity and mortality. Abnormal accumulation of brain iron has been detected in various neurodegenerative diseases, but the contribution of Fe overload to pathology remains unclear . Good food sources of iron include meat and meat products that contain heme Fe, especially red meat and offal as well as dark poultry meat, oily fi sh (e.g., tuna and sardines), cereal products (e.g., f ortifi ed breakfast cereals), main sources of iron must come from fortifi ed cereals, soybeans, tofu, lentils, kidney beans, chickpeas, baked beans, and dark green vegetables. Bread, pota- toes, and dried fruit are also a useful source of iron. For elderly people, obtain- ing an adequate supply of iron may be a challenge due to impaired absorption, reduced food intake associated with lower physical activity, and changes in dietary patterns that result in a more limited diet. In addition to dietary sources impacting Fe stores within humans, other en- vironmental and biological factors affect Fe levels. For example, it is known that serum Fe decreases during active training; this is probably due to the in- fl ammatory response of physical activity . Intense physical training can induce a two- to threefold increase in proinfl ammatory cytokine levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha and i nterleukin (IL)-1b (Ostrowski et al. 1998) as well as the cytokine IL-6 . The increase in infl am- matory cytokines, especially IL-6, stimulates the synthesis of hepcidin, a key regulator of Fe metabolism , thus leading to lower levels of iron and transferrin. In a recent report, Kim et al. (2014) describe the mechanism of Fe homeostasis in response to Salmonella enterica var. Typhimurium (S. ty- phimurium) infection, an intramacrophage bacterium. They showed that the es- trogen-related receptor γ (ERRγ) modulates the intramacrophage proliferation 180 G. V. Dedoussis of S. typhimurium by altering host Fe homeostasis, therefore demonstrating an antimicrobial effect of an ERRγ inverse agonist. Manganese Manganese is an essential nutrient involved in the metabolism of amino acids, proteins, and lipids. In excess, however, manganese can be a potent neuro-
