Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of an ERRγ inverse agonist. Manganese Manganese is an essential nutrient involved in the metabolism of amino acids, proteins, and lipids. In excess, however, manganese can be a potent neuro- toxicant. Occupational and environmental exposure to airborne manganese has been associated with neurobehavioral defi cits in adults and children (Riojas- Rodriguez et al. 2010). Manganese is commonly found in groundwater be- cause of the weathering and leaching of Mn-bearing minerals and rocks into aquifers. Within these waters, Mn concentrations can vary by several orders of magnitude; however, exposure to manganese at levels commonly found in many groundwater sources has been associated with intellectual impairment in children . Previous studies have reported a relationship between the concentration of manganese in drinking water and the Mn levels present in hair (Bouchard et al. 2007). In addition, it was recently found that the biological samples (scalp hair, blood, and urine) of male HIV-1 patients contained signifi cantly lower concen- trations of manganese and chromium compared to control subjects (Afridi et al. 2014). Hence, the lower levels of these trace elements may be predictors for secondary infections in HIV-1 patients. The chemical form of manganese, notably the valence state and solubility, might modify its toxicity (Michalke et al. 2007). Moreover, Mn absorption is decreased in the digestive system with concurrent intake of dietary fi ber, oxalic acids, tannins, and phytic acids . G ender differences of Mn levels show contradictory results: in Korean populations, men show higher levels compared to women (Lee et al. 2012) whereas in Caucasian populations, women have higher blood Mn levels than men . Within a human host, Mn levels are likely to impact microbial growth dur- ing infection. It has been shown that manganese is sequestered from sites of in- fection through the action of a host-derived immune-associated protein known as calprotectin in a murine model of staphylococcal infection (Corbin et al. 2008). The antimicrobial effect of this Mn sequestration is further highlighted by the fact that the staphylococcal Mn acquisition systems MntABC and MntH were required for S. aureus survival in mice expressing calprotectin, but were expendable in calprotectin-defi cient animals . Molybdenum M olybdenum (Mo) is a trace element and an essential nutrient in the human diet. It is a cofactor for the enzymes xanthine oxidase, sulfi te oxidase, and Lifestyle: Metal Exposure, Homeostasis, and Associated Diseases 181 aldehyde oxidase, which are involved in the metabolism of
