Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


It is a cofactor for the enzymes xanthine oxidase, sulfi te oxidase, and Lifestyle: Metal Exposure, Homeostasis, and Associated Diseases 181 aldehyde oxidase, which are involved in the metabolism of sulfur-containing amino acids, purines, and pyrimidines. A dose-dependent trend between mo- lybdenum and declined sperm concentration and normal morphology has been reported . Signifi cant sources of m olybdenum (as soluble molybdates) in the human diet are leafy vegetables, legumes, organ meats, grain products, cow’s milk, and eggs. The Mo content in food sources varies, depending on the amount that has been taken up from the soil. Before wean- ing, an infant’s primary Mo sources derive from breast milk and infant formula (both cow-milk and soy-based types). In an ongoing study of premature, hospi- talized infants, Abramovich et al. (2011) recorded daily intake of formula and breast milk. Based on the intake data and the infants’ average weight measured midterm of the hospitalization stay, mean Mo intakes per day and per kilogram bodyweight were calculated. Abramovich et al. (2011) report that the mean Mo content in soy-based and cow-milk formulas intended for the feeding of full-term o r premature infants is higher than in human milk. Despite lower bioavailability of molybdenum from formula compared with human milk, the maturity of their compensatory mechanisms. One of the enzymatic functions of bacteria enabled by molybdenum is anaerobic respiration. Anaerobic respiration has been shown to contribute to intestinal disease due to the fact that anaerobically respiring pathogens can outcompete benefi cial gut microorganisms when alternative electron acceptors are provided during intestinal infl ammation. This process has been disrupted in mutant pathogens with dysfunctional Mo homeostasis . These fi ndings indicate that dietary molybdenum may play a role in gut disease associated with infl ammation-induced dysbiosis. Nickel Exposure to n ickel (Ni) increased signifi cantly during the twentieth century because of its common applications . Typically, nickel is utilized in metallurgical processes for the production of alloys such as stainless steel . The release of nickel into the environment occurs from various sources: metallurgy and refi ning industries, coal combustion, diesel and fuel oil as well as sewage. Nickel and its compounds are bioaccumulated by the human body through inhalation, ingestion, and dermal absorption. It is considered a carcinogenic agent and is the fourth most frequent contact aller- gen . Humans are exposed to nickel through food, jew- elry, coins, and d ental restorations
