Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


It is considered a carcinogenic agent and is the fourth most frequent contact aller- gen . Humans are exposed to nickel through food, jew- elry, coins, and d ental restorations . Food which contains considerable amounts of nickel include cacao, dark chocolate, nuts, almonds, soya beans, oatmeal, spinach, tea leaves as well as fresh and dried legumes . In addition, Torjussen et al. (2003) report that c igarette smok- ing is a possible source of Ni exposure and conclude that Ni exposure from 182 G. V. Dedoussis smoking is greater than occupational or workplace exposure. Other sources of Ni exposure included photocopiers, PVC and Cu pipes, and amalgam fi llings (d ental amalgam contains about 50% Hg as well as other toxic metals—Sn, Cu, Ni, and Pd). The literature reports that females more frequently suffer from Ni-induced d ermatitis than males (10–20%, 1–5%, respectively) (Picarelli et al. 2011). In a recent study from Poland, Michalak et al. (2012) demonstrated that the type of water-supply system infl uenced Ni content in hair. The high- est content was observed when PVC pipes were present, followed by Cu and fi nally steel pipes. Gender differences have also been recorded: the hair of females contained statistically higher Ni levels than the hair of males. One of the most established links between Ni exposure and infection is that of H. pylori colonization of the human stomach. The H . pylori eradication rate with standard triple therapy is very low. H. pylori is known to require the Ni- containing metalloenzymes u rease and NiFe-h ydrogenase to survive the low pH environment in the stomach. Very recently, the addition of a Ni-free diet to standard triple therapy was shown to signifi cantly increase H. pylori eradica- tion rates . The reduction of H. pylori urease activity due to the Ni-free diet could expose the bacterium to gastric acid and increase the susceptibility of H. pylori to amoxicillin treatment. Selenium In terms of its nutritional value and pathophysiological effects, more controversies are associated with selenium (Se) than with any other trace element. The history of its research is a continuous twist between toxicity and essentiality . Some studies have suggested a role of selenoproteins in the prevention of chronic degenerative disorders, including Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases, c ancer, cardiovascular disease, atherosclerosis, stroke, and infertility. Children with recurrent wheezing were found to have lower hair Se levels than healthy
