Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


chronic degenerative disorders, including Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases, c ancer, cardiovascular disease, atherosclerosis, stroke, and infertility. Children with recurrent wheezing were found to have lower hair Se levels than healthy children, thus suggesting a potential link between Se and infection . In antiretroviral therapy-naive H IV-infected adults, 24-month supplementation with a mixture containing multivitamins and selenium was shown to reduce the risk of immune decline and morbidity signifi cantly . Concerns, however, have been raised about a possible association between Se supplementation and an increased risk of developing i nsulin resistance and t ype 2 diabetes ( Sabino et al. 2013). Dietary Se intake is determined by its content in different foods, the bio- availability of its chemical forms, and the dietary patterns adopted by different populations. The Se content of foods varies according to soil concentration of selenium. Several physicochemical properties of soil (e.g., pH and moisture) can also affect the entrance of selenium into the food chain. Geochemical map- ping of selenium has revealed areas that are poor in selenium (e.g., Scandinavia, Lifestyle: Metal Exposure, Homeostasis, and Associated Diseases 183 New Zealand, certain parts of China) and seleniferous areas (e.g., certain parts of United States, Canada, China and South America). The corresponding di- etary intakes vary respectively: from 3 μg/day in Se-poor areas of China to 350 μg/day in Colombia . However, the enrichment of soils with Se-containing f ertilizers and the use of supplements in animal agricul- ture have partially overcome low intakes due to Se-poor soils . Nevertheless, the determination of daily Se intake by food frequency question- naires is almost impossible because the amount of selenium differs greatly among the same foods, and nutritional tables are unreliable for this trace ele- ment. Beef, white bread, pork, chicken, eggs, and fi sh seem to be the main contributors of selenium in a typical Western d iet; Brazil nuts have the highest Se content among all foods (Navarro-Alarcon and Cabrera-Vique 2008). The contribution of fi sh and shellfi sh products to the RDA and adequate intakes of copper, manganese, selenium, and zinc range from 2.5% (Mn) to 25.4% (Se) . Vanadium Vanadium (V) is an important trace element responsible for maintaining nor- mal biological systems and body functions in humans. It has been reported that V compounds exhibit an insulin-like function or an antidiabetic effect in rats . The best food sources of v anadium are mushrooms,
