Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


functions in humans. It has been reported that V compounds exhibit an insulin-like function or an antidiabetic effect in rats . The best food sources of v anadium are mushrooms, shellfi sh, black pepper, parsley, dill weed, beer, wine, grain and grain products, and arti- fi cially sweetened drinks. Vanadium exists in several forms, including vanadyl sulfate and vanadate. Vanadyl sulfate is most commonly found in nutritional supplements. The average diet provides 6–18 mg per day. Dietary vanadium in excess of 30 mg/kg can alter the amount and diversity of intestinal bacteria in avian broilers, implying that the structure and initial balance in the intesti- nal microbiota are disrupted . These fi ndings could have signifi cant implications to human health because many foodborne infectious diseases originate from the gut microbiota of food animals. If these fi ndings extend to humans, a similar V-induced dysbiosis in the human gut microbiota could lead to intestinal disease. As vanadyl sulfate, vanadium is a trace mineral associated with sugar regulation. It is believed to regulate fasting blood sugar levels and improve receptor sensitivity to insulin (Boden et al. 1996; Schulz et al. 1998). Based on available research, vanadyl sulfate appears to be a useful intervention for type 2 diabetic individuals with insulin resistance. Zinc Zinc is an essential trace element for all organisms, and its content in the hu- man body is 2–3 g. The greatest amount is stored in skeletal muscle and bones: 184 G. V. Dedoussis 11% of the total-body zinc is localized in the liver and skin, and only 0.1% is found within the plasma (Tuerk and Fazel 2009). Zinc is present in all food groups, yet the main dietary sources include oysters, red meat, poultry, fi sh, seafood, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and dairy products. The RDA for zinc is 8 and 11 mg for adult women and men, respectively; however, these values can range from as high as 12–14 mg for women during p regnancy and b reast- feeding to as low as 2–9 mg during childhood and adolescence (Trumbo et al. 2001). Zinc homeostasis is regulated via the gastrointestinal tract, includ- ing the coordinated functions of many transporters. All Zn transporters have transmembrane domains and are encoded by two gene families: ZnT and Zip (Sandstrom and Cederblad 1980). Zinc homeostasis is impaired in diabetic animals and humans; t ype 2 diabetes is associated with decreased plasma Zn
