Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


by two gene families: ZnT and Zip (Sandstrom and Cederblad 1980). Zinc homeostasis is impaired in diabetic animals and humans; t ype 2 diabetes is associated with decreased plasma Zn levels . In a European cohort, Marcellini et al. (2006) found that psychological functions were related to Zn defi ciency that resulted from a reduced intake and less variety of foods rich in zinc. This phenomenon was more evident in Greece and Poland than in other European countries (Italy and France) . Consistent fi ndings from several Z n supple- mentation trials in humans and animal models support the idea that zinc offers protection against cellular oxidation and type 2 diabetes . In addition, Zn defi ciency may play an important role in susceptibility to in- fections, since zinc is essential for numerous immune functions (Ibs and Rink 2003). Although nutritional defi ciencies are often associated with inadequate food intake and poor dietary quality, many studies have shown that other fac- tors (e.g., intestinal parasites) play an important role as predictors of such de- fi ciencies . A consistent change in Zn level in the blood of children infected with Giardia lamblia has been noted and eradication of G. lamblia led to a signifi cant improvement in the mean serum Zn levels six months after treatment in school children . This intestinal parasite causes a generally self-limited clinical illness characterized by d iar- rhea, abdominal cramps, bloating, weight loss, and malabsorption. However, for reasons that remain obscure, asymptomatic giardiasis with high reinfection rates occurs frequently, especially in developing countries . Obesity, Trace Metals, and Infection Jerome O. Nriagu Abstract Trace metals are required in small quantities for a wide array of metabolic functions in the body. In terms of obesity, they can enhance insulin action through activating insulin receptor sites, serve as cofactors or components for enzyme systems involved in glu- cose metabolism, increase insulin sensitivity, and act as antioxidants to prevent tissue oxidation. Chronic hyperglycemia causes signifi cant alterations in the status of many trace metals in the body and consequently increases the oxidative stress which can con- tribute to the p athogenesis of infectious diseases. Whether obese individuals with t race metal defi ciency (or t oxicity) are at increased risk for infection is a matter of concern in many developing countries, where a growing segment of the population (exposed to traditional health risks) has embraced Western d
