Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


at increased risk for infection is a matter of concern in many developing countries, where a growing segment of the population (exposed to traditional health risks) has embraced Western d ietary habits. A better understanding of the roles of different trace metals will undoubtedly facilitate the development of new treatment and prevention strategies that can more effectively reduce the silent burden of comorbid obesity and infectious diseases. Introduction This chapter addresses the risk overlap and role of metals at the confl uence of First and Third World disease risks. With rapid evolution of the socioeconomic structures and impressive urbanization rates, major chronic degenerative dis- eases have spread epidemically in many developing countries. We are now wit- nessing the emergence of a new, highly complex, and challenging pathocenosis in these countries, where comparatively “new” disorders once associated with a “Western” lifestyle (e.g., obesity, diabetes, and immune disorders) coexist rampantly with acute and c hronic diseases typical of traditional societies (e.g., malaria, schistosomiasis, viral hepatitis, and other infectious diseases). A mat- ter of critical interest is whether trace metals can play a mediating role when these two nosologic entities are superimposed. 186 J. O. Nriagu The two strongest selection pressures in human evolution were probably a robust immune response capable of clearing bacterial, viral, and parasitic infection and an ability to store nutrients effi ciently to survive times when food sources were scarce . These traits have evolved in their relationships over time. Recent studies have shown that the critical proteins necessary for regulating energy metabolism—such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors, Toll-like receptors, and f atty acid-binding proteins—also act as links between nutrient metabolism and activation of chronic infl ammation in immune cells (Nieman et al. 1999; Keaney et al. 2003; Matsuzawa-Nagata et al. 2008). Expression of these proteins and their metabolism depend on an optimum supply of essential trace elements being available and the absence of large amounts of the toxic metals. Evolutionary selection led to a phenotype characterized by effi cient energy storage and the formation of i nsulin resistance, both of which activate infl ammatory cells; this could be considered a protective mechanism that coevolved to repartition energy sources within the body during times of nutritional stress and infection (Johnson et al. 2012; Ruiz-Nunez et al. 2013). The development of insulin resistance could also be considered a survival strategy aimed at reallocating the energy-rich nutrients that result from an activated
