Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


et al. 2012; Ruiz-Nunez et al. 2013). The development of insulin resistance could also be considered a survival strategy aimed at reallocating the energy-rich nutrients that result from an activated immune system, limit- ing the immune response and repairing the infl icted damage, among other things . I argue that in ancient times, infl ammatory cell activation and insulin resistance were maintained largely by t race metal homeostasis, through regulation by the metabolic cycles of iron and zinc in particular. Modern l ifestyles have managed to introduce a number of false infl ammatory triggers, characterized by a lack of infl ammation-suppressing factors, which have led to an imbalance: energy intake now far exceeds en- ergy output. We have reached a point where a once benefi cial adaptive trait has become very detrimental to our health. The risk factors most commonly proposed for the recent increase in the prevalence of obesity include, but are not limited to, increased availability of energy-dense food items, increased portion sizes (especially in commercially marketed food items), abnormal dietary composition (especially as fast f oods), the built environment, and physical inactivity . When an infl am- matory disease spreads like an epidemic over a short period of time, it needs to be scrutinized for environmental causes and infectious implications. The changes in environmental exposures and d ietary intake from trace metals in Western foods have impacted the obesity epidemic and this deserves some attention. This is especially true considering that systemic low-grade infl am- mation, altered immune response, and oxidative stress are common features shared by obesity, many infectious diseases, and a dysregulated system of metal homeostasis. What is currently emerging in the scientifi c literature is that disruption in trace metal homeostasis can impair the immune function of adipose tissue in obesity and, consequently, exacerbate certain infections. Obesity, Trace Metals, and Infection 187 The mediating role of metals in comorbidity of obesity and infectious diseases should not be a matter of “if” but rather a question of “how much.” Obesity and Infections Although obesity is a well-documented risk factor for metabolic and cardiovas- cular problems, its impacts on susceptibility to infectious diseases are just be- ginning to receive attention (Anaya and Dellinger 2006; Falagas and Kompoti 2006; Smith et al. 2007). Studies in hospital settings report that obese patients are more likely to develop secondary infections and complications such as sep- sis, p neumonia, bacteremia,
