Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Kompoti 2006; Smith et al. 2007). Studies in hospital settings report that obese patients are more likely to develop secondary infections and complications such as sep- sis, p neumonia, bacteremia, as well as wound and catheter-related infections (Karlsson and Beck 2010). Hospitalized obese patients have been reported to be at increased risk for pulmonary aspiration and community-related respira- tory tract infections (Koenig 2001; Jubber 2004). Increased susceptibility to acute respiratory tract infection has been shown to be associated with body mass index (BMI) in overweight children . Obese individuals are at increased risk for H elicobacter pylori infection (Arslan et al. 2009), and children with increased BMI have been found to be at greater risk of being asymptomatic carriers of N eisseria meningitidis . Case control studies have shown an increased risk of cellulitis and skin infec- tions in overweight and obese cases (Karppelin et al. 2010; Bjornsdottir et al. 2005). Morbid obesity has been shown to be an independent risk factor for in- creased severity of infection and death from a recent H1N1 pandemic i nfl uenza strain . In addition, increased BMI has been associated with greater risk for several other b acterial infections, including periodontal infections, S taphylococcus aureus nasal carriage, and gastric infection by H. pylori (Herwaldt et al. 2004; Ylostalo et al. 2008). One study found that obe- sity was signifi cantly associated with herpes simplex virus 1 infection (Karjala et al. 2011). Reported results (Huttunen and Syrjanen 2013) regarding the as- sociation between obesity and the risk and outcome of community-acquired infections (e.g., pneumonia, bacteremia, sepsis, and as well as the course of HIV infection) are still equivocal. Weber et al. (1985) were the fi rst study to describe a relationship between vaccine response and obesity, and they found that higher BMI was the sin- gle best predictor of failure to develop detectable antibody to serum-derived h epatitis B vaccine in health-care workers. Further studies have subsequently confi rmed the association between obesity and poor antibody response to hepatitis B vaccines (Roome et al. 1993; Wood et al. 1993; Simo-Minana et al. 1996; Young et al. 2001). Other than responses to hepatitis B vaccines, there have been few studies on vaccine effi cacy in the obese host. Eliakim et al. (2006) demonstrated that antibody response to standard tetanus immuniza- tion was lower in overweight 13-year-olds compared to age-matched controls. 188 J. O. Nriagu Dinelli
