Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


the obese host. Eliakim et al. (2006) demonstrated that antibody response to standard tetanus immuniza- tion was lower in overweight 13-year-olds compared to age-matched controls. 188 J. O. Nriagu Dinelli and Moraes-Pinto (2008) reported that an obese female remained non- responsive, even following six doses of hepatitis B vaccine. The fact that there has been no published study of BMI in relation to the effi cacy of i nfl uenza v accination is a serious oversight. These studies with h epatitis B suggest that vaccine responses in obese individuals may be very different from vaccine responses in lean individuals (Karlsson and Beck 2010). If obese individuals then they may not be receiving the full benefi ts of our current immunization protocols. A number of studies with genetically obese animals consistently fi nd re- duced r esistance to bacterial and viral infections, consistent with observations in human subjects. These studies often use mouse models lacking l eptin (ob/ ob), an important adipokine, or the leptin receptor (db/db). Experiments with ob/ob mice have found increased susceptibility to a number of different bac- terial infections including M ycobacterium abscessus, K lebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and M. tuberculosis (Wieland et al. 2005; Hsu et al. 2007). Other studies, however, have found no differences in bacterial growth in ob/ob mice challenged with the K. pneumoniae and S. pneumoniae strains (Mancuso et al. 2002; Wieland et al. 2005; Hsu et al. 2007; Ordway et al. 2008). Experiments with db/db mice have reported increased susceptibility to S. aureus and H . pylori, and increased susceptibility to L isteria monocytogenes has been reported in both ob/ob and db/db mice (Ikejima et al. 2005; Wehrens et al. 2008; Park et al. 2009). Increased susceptibility to viral myocarditis in- duced by coxsackievirus B468 as well as encephalomyocarditis virus has been reported in studies with ob/ob mice . Diet-induced obese animal models have been used to assess the effects of chronic overnutrition, and such studies have yielded confi rmatory results. As with the genetically obese model, diet-induced obese mice are more susceptible to bacterial infection, including infection with Porphyromonas gingivalis and S. aureus-induced sepsis (Amar et al. 2007; Strandberg et al. 2009). Studies over the past three decades also suggest that some microbes may promote obesity in animals and humans, a phenomenon called “i nfectobesity” . Germ-free mice are resistant to diet-induced obesity, sug- gesting that specifi c microbes may cause
