Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


some microbes may promote obesity in animals and humans, a phenomenon called “i nfectobesity” . Germ-free mice are resistant to diet-induced obesity, sug- gesting that specifi c microbes may cause adiposities (Backhed et al. 2007; Nathan 2008). Induction of obesity in mice experimentally infected with ca- nine distemper virus was the fi rst report of infectobesity (Lyons et al. 1982; Dhurander 2011). Subsequent studies have shown that several viruses, bac- teria, parasites, and scrapie agents can cause obesity in chicken, rodents, and nonhuman primates . In addition, a number of microbes, including C hlamydia pneumoniae, Selenomonas noxia, H. pylori, and h erpes simplex virus 1 or 2, have been associated with human obesity (Dart et al. 2002; Fernandez-Real et al. 2007; Arslan et al. 2009). Adenoviruses are, how- ever, the only human pathogens that are causatively and correlatively linked Obesity, Trace Metals, and Infection 189 with animal and human obesity and seem to directly infl uence the adipose tis- sue (Hegde and Dhurander 2013). Obesity and Trace Metals Recent studies of early life exposure to environmental chemicals are begin- ning to provide interesting information on the potentially important role of pre- and perinatal metabolic programming as a risk factor for obesity later in life (Merrill and Birnbaum 2011). A review of metabolic programming and how early life exposure to the “obesogenic” trace metals might be setting the stage for weight gain later in life was recently published by Merrill and Birnbaum (2011). From this review, the two most important obesogenic “metals” that have been identifi ed are o rganotins and l ead. Male mice and male rats exposed to t ributyl tin (TBT) during puberty were found to show increased body mass, associated with increased relative fat mass (Makita et al. 2005; Si et al. 2011; Zuo et al. 2011). Two other studies, however, found opposite effects of TBT exposure on the body weights of female rats . Cell culture models support a role of developmental exposure to organotins in obesity. TBT also induces adipogenesis in multipotent stem cells of mice and humans, while both TBT and triphenyltin (TPT) induce differentiation of 3T3-L1 adipocytes . Although some evidence suggests that Pb exposure may also infl uence the risk of obesity, most of the human data on the association between develop- mental Pb exposure and obesity is equivocal. Lead levels in the teeth of male and female children in the United
