Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


most of the human data on the association between develop- mental Pb exposure and obesity is equivocal. Lead levels in the teeth of male and female children in the United States are positively associated with BMI measured at the same time . A cross-sectional study found no association between blood Pb levels and obesity in 11-year-olds (Merrill and Birnbaum 2011); however, another study of adults showed a marginally signifi cant inverse dose-response relationship between age-adjusted patella Pb levels in adulthood and abdominal obesity (Hu et al. 1998; Park et al. 2006). Results of animal research are consistent with an early-life susceptibility to Pb- associated adiposity and suggests there is a g ender effect . While much remains to be learned about early life exposure to obesogenic metals and infectious diseases, numerous studies have reported on the infl u- encing effects of defi ciencies in essential trace metals in obese individuals in many parts of the world. A few studies have even suggested that adiposity increases the susceptibility to metal toxicity (Huang et al. 2007; Wildman and Mao 2001; Guerrero-Romero et al. 2006; Komolova et al. 2008). An interest- ing trend that has been noted is that the rates of obesity are increasing more rapidly in regions of the world where micronutrient defi ciencies are more prev- alent . This pattern could suggest that (a) the micronutri- ent defi ciencies of individuals in these communities may be contributing to the increase in obesity rates or that (b) the correction of native defi ciencies with 190 J. O. Nriagu Western metal-enriched f oods itself is the risk factor for obesity. It is not clear whether such defi ciencies in obese individuals are the result of inadequate in- take relative to overall body mass and/or are due to alterations in the metabo- lism and excretion of the trace metals. This question is further complicated by the uncertainty as to how to assess and defi ne the optimal status of trace elements in obese individuals. Documentation of the infl uencing factor of Zn status on obesity has come from studies of animal models and human subjects (reviewed by García et al. 2009). A number of epidemiological studies have reported that low Zn intake and low Zn concentrations in blood and other biological fl uids are associated with increased prevalence of obesity and diabetes (common comorbid condi- tions). Obesity has been associated with hypozincemia in
