Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


low Zn concentrations in blood and other biological fl uids are associated with increased prevalence of obesity and diabetes (common comorbid condi- tions). Obesity has been associated with hypozincemia in Italian (Di Martino et al. 1993), Turkish , Thai , Indian , and Taiwanese adult populations, as well as in Turkish children . A study in Guatemala found that Zn-defi cient children were more obese than children with adequate Zn nutrition , and a study by Arsenault et al. (2007) reported a higher increase in fat-free mass among a subset of children with mild-to- moderate stunting who received liquid zinc compared to children who were not stunted and who also received zinc. Zinc is an antioxidant, hence its defi ciency has been associated with in- creased oxidative stress and the infl ammatory response in obese individuals (Sprietsma 1999; DiSilvestro 2000; Ozata et al. 2002; Tungtrongchitr et al. 2003; Cunningham-Rundles et al. 2005). Suboptimal Zn intake has been asso- ciated with low superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in overweight and obese individuals . Another study found that blood con- centrations of zinc, SOD, and glutathione peroxidase were signifi cantly lower in obese men compared to a control group . The available literature thus implicates Zn defi ciency as infl uencing infl ammation. Animal models suggest that Zn defi ciency can lead to reduced lean body mass and increased body fat, which may be risk factors for obesity (García et al. 2009). During the initial stage of an infection, levels of zinc (and other essential trace metals) decline rapidly as the metals are redistributed to the point of infection, to boost immunity, and into tissues (especially liver), so as to deny bioavailable trace metals to the infecting pathogens. Furthermore, mobiliza- tion of zinc into the cellular compartment may be required to facilitate gene transcription and protein production, including the synthesis of adipocytes (especially leptin and adiponectin), insulin-degrading enzymes, and acute phase proteins (APPs) . These are also common presentations in obesity. In obese individuals, Fe defi ciency may result from low Fe intake, reduced Fe absorption, and the sequestration of Fe as a result of chronic infl ammation (Yanoff et al. 2007; Zimmermann et al. 2008). One of the common pathologic conditions observed in obesity is systemic Fe defi ciency and hypoferremia Obesity, Trace Metals, and Infection 191 . Along with a large number of studies that indicate disturbed Fe homeostasis in obesity,
