Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


in obesity is systemic Fe defi ciency and hypoferremia Obesity, Trace Metals, and Infection 191 . Along with a large number of studies that indicate disturbed Fe homeostasis in obesity, recent data point to a cause–effect rela- tionship between Fe status and obesity-related pathologies (Nead et al. 2004; Pinhas-Hamiel et al. 2003). Although the possibility of obesity-induced Fe- defi cient anemia was debated for a long time, this hypothesis has not been confi rmed through experimental data (Ausk et al. 2008; Anna et al. 2009). An association between reduced Fe concentrations in human biomarkers and obesity has been reported in a number of epidemiological studies (Seltzer and Mayer 1963; Nead et al. 2004; Chambers et al. 2006; Lecube et al. 2006; Moayeri et al. 2006). An analysis of the NHANES III data showed that chil- dren who were overweight or at risk of being overweight were twice as likely to be F e defi cient ; another study of adults found an in- verse correlation between serum Fe concentration with BMI, waist circumfer- ence, and fat mass in Hispanic women living in the United States (Chambers et al. 2006). A study of obese and nonobese postmenopausal women found signifi cantly higher concentrations of transferrin receptors in serum of the obese women . A cross-sectional study of children by Pinhas-Hamiel et al. (2003) found that low Fe concentration in blood and Fe- defi ciency anemia were more common in obese children and adolescents than among normal-weight children. Zimmerman et al. (2008) showed that high BMI Z-scores were associated with decreased Fe absorption in women and reported improvement of Fe status in Fe-defi cient children following intake of Fe-fortifi ed f oods. The mutual interaction between Fe homeostasis and obesity-related p atho- genesis leads to h ypoferremia and results in increased adipose tissue Fe content being stored in either adipocytes or adipose tissue macrophages. The infl am- mation of obesity and obesity-related hepcidin and lipocalin 2 hyperproduc- tion seem to be the most probable cause of obesity-related hypoferremia, since oversecretion of these proteins leads to Fe sequestration in reticuloendothelial system cells . The latter also leads to increased adipose tissue Fe content, which produces preconditions for adverse effects of local Fe overload. Being a r edox-active metal, iron is capable of inducing oxida- tive stress as well as endoplasmic reticulum stress, infl ammation, and adipose tissue endocrine dysfunction. It is presumed to
