Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Being a r edox-active metal, iron is capable of inducing oxida- tive stress as well as endoplasmic reticulum stress, infl ammation, and adipose tissue endocrine dysfunction. It is presumed to increase the levels of the pro- infl ammatory cytokines i nterleukin 6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), which, in turn, increase the expression of hepcidin (McClung et al. 2009; García et al. 2009). Thus, the disturbance in Fe homeostasis (including both systemic hypoferremia and local adipose tissue Fe overload) and obesity pathogenesis seem to interact mutually in ways that can also infl uence host– pathogen interactions. A rsenicism, from intake of inorganic arsenic in water and food, is a major health problem that is found especially in areas with high prevalence rates for infectious diseases and a growing epidemic of obesity . In recent years, increasing epidemiologic evidence from multiple countries 192 J. O. Nriagu supports the role of inorganic arsenic in the development of d iabetes (reviewed by Huang et al. 2011; Wang et al. 2014). A recent meta-analysis pooled 17 published articles that reported on 2,243,745 participants and found a 13% increase in risk of t ype 2 diabetes mellitus for every 100 mg/l increment in con- centration of inorganic arsenic in drinking water . Biologic evidence in support of obesogenicity of arsenic includes the fact that arsenic could affect β cell function and insulin sensitivity through several mechanisms, including oxidative stress, glucose uptake and transport, gluconeogenesis, adi- pocyte differentiation, and calcium signaling (Tseng 2004; Davey et al. 2007; Diaz-Villasenor et al. 2007; Maull et al. 2012; Douillet et al. 2013). Arsenic can also act as an endocrine disrupter affecting the function of hormone re- ceptors, including glucocorticoid, androgen, estrogen, and thyroid hormone in cell culture and animal models (Bodwell et al. 2006; Davey et al. 2007). In addition, arsenic may also impact diabetes through epigenetic mechanisms, including hyper- and hypomethylation of diabetes-related genes (Smeester et al. 2011; Kuo et al. 2013). Copper is a pro-oxidant that participates in metal-catalyzed formation of free radicals; together with z inc, c opper also acts as a structural and catalyt- ic component of some metalloenzymes . Copper is protection of cells from superoxide radicals . Zinc, on the other hand, acts as an antioxidant by protecting the sulfhydryl groups of proteins and enzymes against free radical damage in the body (DiSilvestro 2000). The protective and toxic effects of copper
