Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


hand, acts as an antioxidant by protecting the sulfhydryl groups of proteins and enzymes against free radical damage in the body (DiSilvestro 2000). The protective and toxic effects of copper and zinc in the pathogenesis of obesity and diabetic complications have been documented (Walter et al. 1991; Galhardi et al. 2004; Forbes et al. 2008). In particular, the relationships of serum Cu and Zn levels with obesity and diabetes have been extensively studied; results generally show that serum Cu levels are signifi cantly increased (refl ecting oxidative status of the adipose) and Zn levels are signifi cantly de- creased in obese and diabetic adults (Zargar et al. 1998; Basaki et al. 2012; Ferdousi and Mia 2012; Naka et al. 2013). Biologically speaking, c admium and, to a lesser degree, mercury should be of interest in the biology of insulin-secreting β cells, because of their similar- ity to zinc and the importance of zinc in the physiology of β cells (Afridi et al. 2008; Eddins et al. 2008). Given that zinc is co-secreted with insulin and that β cells have to maintain a high metabolic turnover of zinc, these cells are highly vulnerable to changes in Zn homeostasis . Impairment in function of insulin-producing pancreatic β cells has been proposed to be one of the underlying causes of diabetic complication in obesity (Huang and Arvan 1995). The recent study by Muayed et al. (2012) reported that mouse β cells accumulated cadmium in a dose- and time-dependent manner over a prolonged period of time. In this study, Cd uptake led to a functional impairment of β cell function (including inhibition of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion) without Obesity, Trace Metals, and Infection 193 inducing general cell toxicity or oxidative stress. The results of such in vitro experiments have yet to be validated in human studies. Obesity, Trace Metal Homeostasis, and Infection Modern lifestyles have fundamentally changed the types, amounts, and forms of trace metals to which people are routinely exposed, and the consequences for human health have yet to be fully assessed. A large number of studies sug- gest that these changes can signifi cantly infl uence the pathogenesis of obe- sity and infectious diseases as separate entities (see above). The question as to whether obese individuals with trace metal defi ciency or t oxicity (growing traits in the developing countries) are at increased risk for infectious diseases has not received much attention. For
