Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


whether obese individuals with trace metal defi ciency or t oxicity (growing traits in the developing countries) are at increased risk for infectious diseases has not received much attention. For this review, I have relied on a “weight of evidence” approach to make suggestive inferences. There are multiple cellular and biochemical pathways in the homeostasis of trace metals which can infl uence metabolic disorders (including insulin re- sistance, obesity, and d iabetes) and infections. The three potential processes in metal metabolism that can simultaneously infl uence the pathogenesis of obe- sity and many infections are: 1. nutritional trace metal defi ciency or excessive exposure to toxic metals, which can compromise immune function; 2. elevated blood volume as a function of increased adipose tissue mass, which increases the trace metal requirements and can potentially dys- regulate the systemic distribution of many metals; and 3. formation of systemic infl ammation and oxidative status common through trace metal homeostasis. The proposed mechanisms behind obesity and infectious diseases include immune system dysregulation, decreased cell-mediated i mmune responses, obesity-related comorbidities, r espiratory dysfunction, and pharmacological issues (Huttunen and Syrjanen 2013). As to be expected, however, most stud- ies on obesity and susceptibility to infections in humans and animals have fo- cused on the role and functionality of the immune system. The immune system cells and adipocytes show similarities in structure and function, such as the production of various infl ammatory mediators (Marti et al. 2001; Huttunen and Syrjanen 2013). Adipose tissue itself has its own immune function and can also interact by secreting adipokines, such as l eptin . In some respect, obesity can be regarded as a violation of the well-balanced system of adipocytes and immune cells, which can lead to a disturbance to the immune surveillance system and dysregulation of the immune response, impairment of chemotaxis, and alteration in macrophage differentiation (Nave et al. 2011; Huttunen and Syrjanen 2013). The homeostatic cycle of many trace metals is closely linked to these processes. 194 J. O. Nriagu Sepsis, the syndrome of microbial infection complicated by systemic in- fl ammation, provides an exaggerated illustration of the mediating effects of zinc on obesity and infection. An association between obesity and the increased morbidity and mortality from sepsis has been documented in a number of stud- ies (Cheng et al. 2008; Sander et al. 2010), and both conditions share a number of important clinical and pathophysiological features.
