Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


sepsis has been documented in a number of stud- ies (Cheng et al. 2008; Sander et al. 2010), and both conditions share a number of important clinical and pathophysiological features. A characteristic feature of obesity is the induction of a chronic infl ammatory state characterized by increased cytokine production by adipocytes or macrophages infi ltrating adi- pose tissue . An exaggerated infl ammatory response to microbial infection is a prominent feature of sepsis . Adipose tissue se- cretes proinfl ammatory adipokines such as interleukin-6, TNF-α, and c alcito- nin, which are commonly associated with sepsis pathophysiology (Knoell et al. 2009). Adipocytes also express Toll-like receptors, which are responsive to en- dotoxin; these are also critical factors in sepsis . Another feature of obesity is systemic lipotocixity that results from adiposity, leading to the production of toxic metabolites and overactivation of oxidative pathways . Oxidative stress and high lipid concentrations may lead to apoptosis and endothelial dysfunction (Ho et al. 2003; Calvano et al. 2005). Relatedly, Liu et al. (2014) recently made the important observation that Zn defi ciency signifi cantly increases mortality in a mouse model of polymicrobial sepsis due to overactivation of the infl ammatory response. They showed that during the initial stage of sepsis, Zn defi ciency can induce rapid release of cy- tokines, such as TNFα, IL-1β, and IL-6, which rapidly activate the acute phase response (APR) and lead to the production of APPs. They also report that the upregulation of APR under Zn defi ciency was accompanied by enhanced JAK- STAT3 signaling and a corresponding increase in serum amyloid A production. Further, Liu et al. (2014) report that adding zinc to the experimental system reduced the JAK-STAT3 signaling and APR activity, indicating that zinc plays a pivotal role in balancing the host response through the APR and enhanced expression of APPs during the severe infection associated with sepsis. In recent years, it has become clear that chronic systemic low-grade infl am- mation, altered i mmune response, and oxidative stress are the basis for many, if not all, Western diseases centered around the metabolic syndrome (Keaney et al. 2003; Furukawa et al. 2004; Matsuzawa-Nagata et al. 2008; Fernández- Sánchez et al. 2011). These features are also commonly associated with trace metal defi ciencies (or toxicity) and infections. The adverse impact of obesity on immunity is particularly striking in t uberculosis, a disease that may have shaped recent
