Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


associated with trace metal defi ciencies (or toxicity) and infections. The adverse impact of obesity on immunity is particularly striking in t uberculosis, a disease that may have shaped recent human evolution. In premodern times, type 1 diabetes was ob- served to predispose individuals to tuberculosis . It is now be- coming clear that obesity-associated prediabetes and type 2 diabetes are risk factors that affect the contagiousness of tuberculosis and prolonged posttreat- ment of the infection (Alisjahbana et al. 2007; Restrepo 2007; Stevenson et al. 2007). Suppression of the ability to generate interferon (IFN)-α has been im- plicated in increasing susceptibility : IFN-α enhances Obesity, Trace Metals, and Infection 195 the antimicrobial capacity of macrophages , and defi ciencies in its production or signaling underlie most syndromes of susceptibility to myco- bacterial infection . In India, the case burden of tuberculosis attributable to obesity and/or diabetes has been estimated to exceed markedly that attributable to infection by H IV (Alisjahbana et al. 2007; Restrepo 2007). Coincidentally, the prevalence of zinc, iron, and other trace metal defi ciencies in India is among the highest in the world (see Ackland et al., this volume). Both obesity and defi ciencies in trace metals lead to the expression of copious amounts of the infl ammatory cytokines seen in tuberculosis patients, and it is most likely that all three conditions share common pathogenic features. The likelihood that the superposition of the growing vulnerabilities of obesity into endemicity of trace metal defi ciencies may be involved in the changing pre- sentation of tuberculosis and other infectious diseases in some parts of India cannot be discounted. A large volume of literature reports that the disruption of the homeosta- sis of redox-active metals (including iron, copper, chromium, cobalt among others) may lead to o xidative stress—a state where increased generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) overwhelms the body’s antioxidant protection and subsequently induces D NA damage, lipid peroxidation, protein modifi ca- tion, and other effects associated with numerous diseases, including obesity and diabetes and related metabolic syndrome (reviewed by Jomova and Valko 2011). Redox-active metals are quintessentially involved in the formation of superoxide radical, hydroxyl radical (mainly via Fenton and Haber–Weiss reactions), nitric oxide, and other ROS species in biological systems, which can subsequently activate the formation of other organic free radicals. Redox- inactive metals including cadmium, arsenic, lead, and m ercury, on the other hand, moderate the
