Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


in biological systems, which can subsequently activate the formation of other organic free radicals. Redox- inactive metals including cadmium, arsenic, lead, and m ercury, on the other hand, moderate the biological redox cycles via bonding to sulphydryl groups of proteins and depletion of antioxidant species such as glutathione. An alter- native mechanism leading to the formation of hydrogen peroxide by oxidation of As(III) to As(V) under physiological conditions has been proposed (Mishra and Flora 2008). As a redox-inert metal, zinc occupies a special position among the metals in that it is an essential component of numerous proteins involved in defense against oxidative stress. Under a normal homeostatic mechanism, the metal-induced formation of free radicals is tightly infl uenced by the action of cellular antioxidants with many low molecular weight antioxidants, such as ascorbic acid ( vitamin C), alpha-tocopherol ( vitamin E), glutathione, c a- rotenoids, fl avonoids, and other antioxidants, being formed which are capable of chelating metal ions, thus reducing their catalytic activity with respect to ROS (Jomova and Valko 2011). The capacity of these metabolites to prevent the harmful effects of hypoxia is limited and can be overwhelmed by habitual intake of energy-dense and antioxidant-poor diet . Some evidence suggests that excessive zinc in energy-dense food causes ex- cessive accumulation of body fat both in rodents and humans, thereby implicat- ing the involvement of zinc in the etiology of obesity (Prentice 1993; Chen et 196 J. O. Nriagu al. 1996; Taneja et al. 1996; 2012). The current understanding of a Zn effect on obesity is that zinc positively modulates secretion of insulin from pancreas and certain adipocites (including leptin, adiponectin) from adipose cells (Song et al. 2009). Zinc defi ciency alters Z n transporter expression in adipose tissue (see above) and is associated with reduced serum leptin concentrations in healthy humans and rats (Mantzaros et al. 1998; Baltaci et al. 2005). Obese humans and mice, however, show higher concentrations of circulating l eptin hyperlep- tinemia as well as h yperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia in tandem with lower Zn concentrations (h ypozincemia) in blood or adipose tissue, suggesting inter- esting interrelationships between these factors in obesity (Taneja et al. 2012; Liu et al. 2013). Leptin is essential for normal development of both innate and adaptive immune responses, and the lack of this hormone or its receptor results in severe immune abnormalities and greater susceptibility to viral, bacterial, mycobacterial, and fungal
