Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of both innate and adaptive immune responses, and the lack of this hormone or its receptor results in severe immune abnormalities and greater susceptibility to viral, bacterial, mycobacterial, and fungal infections . Recent studies show that ob/ob mice exhibit increased pulmonary bacterial burdens and reduced survival following an intratracheal challenge with either K . pneumoniae or S. pneumoni- ae (Mancuso et al. 2002; Hsu et al. 2007). The extent to which leptin and other adipokines are involved in mediating the role of zinc and other trace metals in the comorbidity of obesity and infectious diseases is unknown at this time. Conclusions Modern lifestyles have fundamentally changed the types, amounts, and forms of trace metals to which people are routinely exposed, and a growing number of studies suggest that these changes can signifi cantly infl uence the pathogen- esis of obesity and infectious diseases as separate entities. This review uses a weight of evidence approach to suggest that obese individuals with defi ciency or toxicity (growing traits in the developing countries) in some trace metals are at increased risk for infectious diseases. Multiple cellular and biochemical pathways are involved in the homeostasis of trace metals, which can infl u- ence metabolic disorders (including i nsulin resistance, obesity, and d iabetes) and host–pathogen interactions. Redox-active metals are quintessentially in- volved in the formation of superoxide radical, hydroxyl radical (mainly via Fenton and Haber–Weiss reactions), n itric oxide, and other ROS species in biological systems, which can subsequently induce DNA damage, lipid per- oxidation, protein modifi cation, and other effects associated with numerous diseases, including obesity and diabetes and related metabolic syndrome. The proposed mechanisms linking trace metals to obesity and infection include (a) nutritional trace metal defi ciency or excessive exposure to toxic metals, which can compromise immune function; (b) elevated blood volume as a function of increased adipose tissue mass, which increases the trace metal requirements and can potentially dysregulate the systemic availability of many metals to infecting pathogens; and (c) formation of systemic infl ammation and oxidative status common through trace metal homeostasis. In truth, our understanding of the trace metal-obesity-infection nexus remains very limited and a fertile area for future research. First column (top to bottom): Dieter Rehder, Günter Weiss, Victor DiRita, Julia Bornhorst, Miguel Soares, Dieter Rehder, Lothar Rink, Robert Black Second column: Robert Black, Inga Wessels, Eric Skaar, Miguel Soares, Julia Bornhorst, Robert Perry, Victor DiRita, Rodney
