Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Weiss, Victor DiRita, Julia Bornhorst, Miguel Soares, Dieter Rehder, Lothar Rink, Robert Black Second column: Robert Black, Inga Wessels, Eric Skaar, Miguel Soares, Julia Bornhorst, Robert Perry, Victor DiRita, Rodney Dietert Third column: Maribel Navarro, Lothar Rink, Rodney Dietert, Dennis Thiele, Maribel Navarro, Inga Wessels, Fudi Wang, Eric Skaar Metals in Host– Microbe Interaction The Host Perspective Dieter Rehder, Robert E. Black, Julia Bornhorst, Rodney R. Dietert, Victor J. DiRita, Maribel Navarro, Robert D. Perry, Lothar Rink, Eric P. Skaar, Miguel C. P. Soares, Dennis J. Thiele, Fudi Wang, Günter Weiss, and Inga Wessels Abstract This overview covers the role of the metal ions in infectious diseases, focusing on iron (Fe), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), and, to a lesser extent, manganese (Mn) and the metal- loid selenium (Se). In addition, recommended dietary allowances are addressed, as are metal-based drugs for the treatment of tropical diseases. The human organism binds e ssential metals such as iron, manganese, copper, and zinc to specifi c compounds (including proteins) in order to withhold these metals from invading pathogens (“ nutritional immunity”); in this way, metal binding provides re- sistance to infection. Selenium status can also affect the host–pathogen interaction, but pathogens have mechanisms to counteract this protective potency. As alternative to a withdrawal of metals, microbes can be exposed to particularly high—and thus toxic— levels of metal ions. A secondary protective mechanism stems from the production (by host innate immune cells) of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species; this can also result in host tissue damage. In addition, the g asotransmitters n itric oxide (an oxidant) and c arbon monoxide are indirectly involved in side effects (deprotection and protection, respectively, of bound heme) that result from the immune response. Host-mediated alteration of Fe homeostasis directly impacts on the proliferation of microbes. Depending on the type of pathogen, different regulatory mechanisms can be initiated. Limiting the availability of iron can be an effi cient strategy to restrict extra- cellular bacteria, although such a strategy is detrimental for intracellular pathogens. Iron homeostasis is partly linked to Cu homeostasis. Copper defi ciency predisposes mammals to infectious diseases, to some extent as a consequence of a lack of neutro- phils induced by inadequate Cu availability or supply. Finally, there is a clear-cut cor- 200 D. Rehder et al. relation between b acterial infections and Zn removal from serum. More generally, Z n defi ciency reduces immune defense against infections,
