Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


is a clear-cut cor- 200 D. Rehder et al. relation between b acterial infections and Zn removal from serum. More generally, Z n defi ciency reduces immune defense against infections, chronic infl ammatory disease, and reduced cellular activation, whereas high levels of zinc can hamper effective signal transduction. Due to the epidemic proportions of tropical diseases (e.g., l eishmaniasis, C hagas disease, and malaria) and lack of effective treatment, drugs are being developed that are based on coordination compounds of metals, including copper, iron, ruthenium, and gold. These m etals are coordinated to aromatic ligand systems that allow for a stabiliza- tion of the drug, during the drug’s transport to its target, and eventually intercalation into DNA. For malaria, the increasing resistance of the malaria parasite against the classical drug c hloroquine may be overcome by employing ferrocenyl derivatives of chloroquine. Introduction This report focuses on the distribution and function of the e ssential elements iron, zinc, c opper and, to some extent, manganese, and s elenium. Molybdenum was excluded because its impact on infectious diseases is hardly known. Also excluded were v anadium, chromium, nickel, and cobalt. Chromium has long been considered to be an indispensable trace metal , but from today’s point of view, it is unlikely to be essential ; there is, however, evidence of its potential to invoke cancer in the +V state, generated from chromate(VI) under physiological conditions . The essentiality of vanadium has not yet been established. The similarity, how- ever, between vanadate and phosphate strongly suggest a role for vanadate in the regulation of phosphate-metabolizing enzymes, such as phosphatases and kinases . An example is the antidiabetic effect of vanadate as a consequence of the inhibition of protein-tyrosine-phosphatase through the co- ordination of vanadate to the cysteinate in the active site. Cobalt is the central metal in v itamin B12; however, whether external “free” c obalt is a nutritional requirement has yet to be clarifi ed. Finally, nickel does not appear to be direct- ly essential for humans, yet its inalienability for microbes—and thus also for the human microbiome—presupposes an indirect essentiality also for humans. More generally, the consequences of the microbiome for m etal availability in the host, and vice versa, remain to be explored. The essentiality of many transition metals, and of the main group element se- lenium, presupposes that these elements are available as micronutrients for hu- mans as well
