Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


to be explored. The essentiality of many transition metals, and of the main group element se- lenium, presupposes that these elements are available as micronutrients for hu- mans as well as for both symbiotic and pathogenic microbes and parasitic proto- zoa. In response to an infection, the host can increase the metal concentration up to levels that are toxic for the pathogen or reduce the availability of the essential metal for the invading microbes, using specifi c metal ion-binding proteins and/ or by withdrawing metal ions from affected cells and tissues. On the other hand, parasitic microorganisms have developed sophisticated mechanisms to cope with metal ion restrictions and overloads. Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 201 We begin with an overview of biologically essential elements, in general, and metals/metalloids that are essential for humans and of interest in the host– microbe interaction. We address in some detail the distribution and function of manganese, iron, copper, zinc, and selenium, emphasizing the competition for these elements in the frame of the interaction between the host (the human body) and the invading microbes/parasites. The role of the g asotransmitters c arbon monoxide (CO) and n itric oxide (NO) is presented in relation to their interference with bound and free ferrous ions, followed by a brief discussion on dietary allowances for essential metals, as recommended by the World based drugs in the treatment of tropical diseases caused by parasitic protozoa. Essential Metals and Metalloids: An Overview Figure 13.1 shows the periodic table of life elements. To ascertain that neither defi ciency nor overload occurs, metal homeostasis must be tightly regulated. Even in the case of intact metal homeostasis, defi ciencies are inevitable when a person is subjected to an unbalanced diet. This happens, in particular, in infants, children, pregnant and nursing women, as well as elderly individu- als. People who are particularly susceptible to an unbalanced provision (com- monly an undersupply) of essential metals and metalloids are those at risk Group 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. doireP Figure 13.1 B iologically and medicinally relevant elements. Elements that are demonstrably essential for humans are shown in black (for the buildup of organic compounds) and green. Elements that are essential for only select groups of organisms are noted in gray; toxic metals are listed in red. Metals used in therapy are shown
