Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


organic compounds) and green. Elements that are essential for only select groups of organisms are noted in gray; toxic metals are listed in red. Metals used in therapy are shown in mauve: Li ( bipolar disorder), Ag (wound disinfection), Sb ( leishmaniasis, schistosomiasis), Pt (c ancer therapy), Au ( r heumatoid arthritis), Bi (gastrointestinal disorders). Metals employed in diagnostic techniques (such as positron emission tomography, PET, and magnetic resonance imaging, MRI) are highlighted in blue. Gd is framed, because it is an f-group element. Other m etal prescriptions are sporadically used medicinally. For example, l anthanum carbonate is sometimes applied in dialysis to reduce serum phosphate levels (hyperphosphatemia). The essentiality of c hromium (e.g., in the form of a hardly defi ned picolinato-Cr3+ complex, the “glucose tolerance factor”) has recently been critically scrutinized ; Cr has thus not been included. 202 D. Rehder et al. of undernourishment and/or malnutrition, such as inhabitants of developing countries, people with infections, and, to some extent, vegans. Recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) for metals, as released and rec- ommended by governmental authorities and the WHO, need to be reviewed and assessed critically in light of the scientifi c arguments presented in this publication; for detailed discussion of RDAs and relevant tables, see Wang and Zhang (this volume). One problem with RDAs is that speciation (and thus b ioavailability) of the respective nutritional element is not considered. Open questions include adverse effects from normal levels of metal supplementation (e.g., iron in relation to copper), in particular with respect to long-term effects, dietary needs, infections, and chronic diseases. Eventually, in setting (upper) limits for the intake of essential metals, differentiation by population should be considered. Below we provide an overview of the uptake, distribution, and selected spe- cifi c functions of elements essential for humans. Further details on manganese, iron, zinc, and copper, and the metalloid selenium in a broader context are provided by Wessels and Loutet et al. (this volume). Magnesium M agnesium plays a central role in phosphate (and hence energy) metabolism. For example, Mg adenosine triphosphate (ATP)—where Mg2+ is coordinated to phosphate, H O/OH–, and the carboxylate of Asp or Glu—activates the phosphate-dependent metabolic pathways. Magnesium provides support to en- doskeletons, and stabilizes the structure of proteins and polysaccharides. Calcium The majority (about 99%) of calcium is present in bones as hydroxyapatite Ca (PO ) (OH) F (x ≤ 0.01) and teeth (x 
