Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


structure of proteins and polysaccharides. Calcium The majority (about 99%) of calcium is present in bones as hydroxyapatite Ca (PO ) (OH) F (x ≤ 0.01) and teeth (x  0.1). Calcium also plays a role 5 4 3 1–x x in muscle contraction/relaxation, blood clotting, enzyme regulation, the gat- ing of K+ channels, stabilization of protein structures, and signal transduction. Extracellular c(Ca2+) exceeds intracellular c(Ca2+) by a factor of 2.5 × 103. Three hormones are involved in Ca2+ metabolism. Manganese Manganese is associated with the lipid, carbohydrate, and amino acid metabo- lism. Examples of Mn-dependent enzymes in humans are prolidase, arginase, and mitochondrial s uperoxide dismutase (SOD). The Ca2+-binding protein calprotectin also effectively binds Mn2+. Mn2+ and Zn2+ share some chemical properties; there is, however, no established connection for the competition between these two metal ions. Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 203 Iron I ron is the most abundant transition metal in the human body. It is critically involved in key physiologic functions, including the transport of gaseous mol- ecules, such as oxygen O ( hemoglobin), or g asotransmitters, such as NO and C O, electron transport in the mitochodria, and activity of a variety of redox enzymes. Redox enzymes include many that are involved in the formation of free radicals implicated in h ost defense mechanisms that target pathogens for destruction (e.g., the Fenton reaction). These are commonly based either on heme iron or on iron-sulfur (Fe-S) proteins. Most iron in the body is recycled; a daily uptake of 1–2 mg suffi ces for maintenance of Fe homeostasis. A schematic of Fe uptake, distribution, and recycling is illustrated in Figure 13.2. It should be noted that only 20–25% of the bioavailable iron in mammals exists in the form of accessible iron, bound to t ransferrin, stored inside ferritin, in Fe-S clusters or transiently bound to Fe chaperones and transporters. The remaining 75–80% of bioavailable iron ex- ists inside the protoporphyrine IX ring of heme, the prosthetic group of hemo- proteins. Among these, hemoglobin comprises up to 70% of the total pool of heme, thus accounting for the major Fe compartment in mammals. Bioavailable iron can transit from the heme into the labile Fe compartment via a controlled process that relies on heme catabolism by heme oxygenases, as illustrated by the fi nding that the heme oxygenase-1 isoform, constitutively expressed by he- mophagocytic macrophages, is essential to
