Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


controlled process that relies on heme catabolism by heme oxygenases, as illustrated by the fi nding that the heme oxygenase-1 isoform, constitutively expressed by he- mophagocytic macrophages, is essential to maintain Fe homeostasis (Poss and Tonegawa 1997; Yachie et al. 1999). It becomes apparent therefore that regula- tion of heme catabolism, allowing for the extraction and recycling of iron into the labile Fe compartment, is essential for the maintenance of Fe homeostasis Figure 13.2 Uptake of iron and Fe homeostasis. In blood plasma, ferric iron is tightly bound to the transport protein transferrin; ca. 80% of the overall iron is present in the form of heme. The intestinal absorptive cells, termed enterocytes, are located in the duodenal lumen. Hepcidin, a peptide hormone produced in the liver, attains a central role due to its binding to the Fe transporter f erroportin, which decreases Fe fl ow into the plasma by initiating endocytosis and proteolysis of ferroportin. 204 D. Rehder et al. in mammals (Gozzelino and Soares 2014). Maintenance of Fe homeostasis also relies on the transit of labile iron into the Fe-heme compartment, through de novo heme synthesis, catalyzed by a sequence of eight enzymatic steps completed by the insertion of iron into the proptoporphyrin IX ring, and cata- lyzed by f errochelatase. This is essential, for example, for the insertion of Fe- heme into hemoglobin and maintenance of erythropoiesis. An inadequate supply of iron can lead to anemia and Friedreich ataxia, whereas abundance can result in o xidative stress (due to abnormal Fe deposi- tion) and hemochromatosis. Cobalt Cobalt is the central metal ion (Co+, Co2+, Co3+) of v itamin B12 and its deriva- tives. An undersupply of c obalt causes p ernicious anemia and results, for ex- ample, in damage to nervous tissues. Larger doses of cobalt are acutely toxic. “Free” cobalt, supplied through food, cannot be used in the human physiologi- cal system. Copper C opper is present in various redox enzymes, where the metal switches between the oxidation states +I and +II. Copper is also involved in Fe homeostasis (see, e.g., hephaestin in Figure 13.2). Several diseases are connected to Cu imbal- ance: W ilson disease (Cu overload), M enkes disease (Cu defi ciency) and pos- sibly Alzheimer disease (imbalance between “labile” and “tightly bound” Cu). In grazing cattle, molybdate MoO 2– in soils can immobilize copper and lead to Cu defi ciency. Zinc Zinc (Zn2+; redox
