Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Alzheimer disease (imbalance between “labile” and “tightly bound” Cu). In grazing cattle, molybdate MoO 2– in soils can immobilize copper and lead to Cu defi ciency. Zinc Zinc (Zn2+; redox inactive under physiological conditions) is the second most abundant transition metal in the human body and forms the active center of enzymes, including hydrolases, carboanhydrase, and alcohol dehydrogenase. Other Zn-dependent functions are manifest in genetic transcription (“Zn fi n- gers”), in the stabilization of tertiary and quaternary structures of peptides, and in DNA repair proteins. Low molecular mass proteins rich in zinc, the thio- neins, store zinc and regulate Zn levels, but can also act as scavengers for toxic Pb2+, Cd2+ and Hg2+ (for an updated view of zinc, see Chasapis et al. 2012). Molybdenum M olybdenum is a constituent of the molybdopterin cofactor in three enzymes in humans: sulfi te oxidase (SuOx), xanthine oxidase (XaOx), and DMSO reduc- tase. SuOx is located in the mitochondria, where it catalyzes the oxidation—and Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 205 thus d etoxifi cation—of sulfi te (supplied exogenously, or formed in the frame of the metabolism of cysteine and methionine) to sulfate. An inadequate supply of molybdenum causes severe neurological damage in early childhood. XaOx catalyzes the oxidation/dehydrogenation of aldehydes as well as the oxida- tion of hypoxanthine to xanthine. Dimethyl sulfoxide reductase catalyzes the reduction of dimethyl sulfoxide to dimethylsulfi de. Selenium Selenium is an essential micronutrient, present in the body in the form of sele- nocysteine SeCys and selenomethionine. SeCys serves as a building block in enzymes, such as g lutathione peroxidase, and in some molybdopterin cofactors. Toxic Elements The t oxicity of cadmium, m ercury, and lead results from the ability of these metal ions to form very stable thiocompounds, and thus to denature peptides and proteins through the reaction with cysteine sulfhydryl groups. In addition, Zn metabolism is disturbed when Zn2+ is replaced in Zn thioneins. N ickel and a luminum are other possibly nonessential elements that can disrupt metabolic pathways when present in more than trace amounts. The Role of Manganese, Iron, Copper, Zinc, and Selenium Manganese Innate Immunity Similar to iron and zinc, mammals bind m anganese in an attempt to withhold this transition metal from invading pathogens. The neutrophil-derived protein, calprotectin, chelates both zinc and manganese, removing these metals from sites of infection. Calprotectin is a heterodimer encoded by the genes S100A8 and S100A9,
