Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


from invading pathogens. The neutrophil-derived protein, calprotectin, chelates both zinc and manganese, removing these metals from sites of infection. Calprotectin is a heterodimer encoded by the genes S100A8 and S100A9, and is one of the most abundant proteins at sites of infl amma- tion. While the relative contribution of Zn and Mn chelation to the inhibition of infections remains to be completely defi ned, it is clear that Mn chelation by calprotectin is required to inhibit bacterial growth to the greatest extent possible and, as such, to provide resistance to bacterial infections. Moreover, Zn and Mn chelation can inhibit microbial virulence factors that rely on these metals . The protein S100A12 is also constitutively expressed in neutrophils and has a role in infection and immunity, presumably through Zn binding (Goyette and Geczy 2011). In ad- dition, S100A7 inhibits microbial growth through Zn binding and has an im- portant role in protecting against i nfections of the skin (Schröder and Harder 2006). Notably, the S100 protein family is comprised of 24 family members, 206 D. Rehder et al. including many metal-binding proteins. This raises the exciting possibility that additional Mn- and Zn-binding components of the innate immune system have yet to be uncovered. In an interesting turn of events, N eisseria meningitidis, the causative agent of m eningitis, has been reported to produce a protein that binds calprotectin and thus enables the organism to utilize this protein as a nutrient Zn source . It is likely that bacteria have multiple strategies to circumvent calprotectin-dependent metal binding, but these strategies have yet to be uncovered. Transport and Infl ammation Currently, undefi ned mammalian compound(s) contribute to Mn chelation. Although some studies have detected manganese bound to t ransferrin and l ac- toferrin (Aschner and Gannon 1994), their contribution to withholding manga- nese from pathogens has not been determined. Mutation of Mn uptake systems in a number of bacterial pathogens results in a loss of virulence in various pathogenesis models . This is further support that che- lation of manganese in mammals creates a Mn-defi cient environment which pathogens must overcome. Due to the ubiquitous occurrence of manganese in the diet, daily dietary uptake in industrial countries is higher than the recommended daily require- ment. Thus M n defi ciency is extremely rare and has only been shown in ex- perimental models . Defi ciency has been demonstrated in several animal species (e.g.,
