Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


require- ment. Thus M n defi ciency is extremely rare and has only been shown in ex- perimental models . Defi ciency has been demonstrated in several animal species (e.g., rats, mice, pigs, chicken, and cattle) and can result in several biochemical and structural defects such as poor bone growth, skeletal abnormalities, ataxia, and abnormal glucose tolerance (Santamaria and Sulsky 2010). In human subjects on an experimental low Mn diet, d ermatitis, slowed growth of hair and nails, decreased serum cholesterol levels, and decreased levels of clotting proteins have been reported . In contrast, toxicity is more common, and chronic manganese overexposure has been shown to correlate with permanently progressing neurodegenerative damage. In a few studies that targeted neuropathological mechanisms, the role of neuroinfl ammation has been uncovered: Manganese enhances the release of the infl ammatory cytokines i nterleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor promote the activation of astrocytes and subsequent release of infl ammatory mediators such as prostaglandin E2 and the g asotransmitter NO (Aschner et al. 2009; Filipov and Dodd 2011). In addition, manganese potentiates NO produc- tion in cytokine-stimulated astrocytes . In biological systems, the most relevant and stable Mn species exist in the form of Mn2+ and Mn3+. These Mn ions are transported into cells via several mechanisms (e.g., facilitated diffusion and active transport) and transporters for other divalent ions (e.g., Fe2+ and Zn2+), indicating an interconnection be- tween Mn, Fe, and Zn homeostasis. Manganese is discussed to be transported, Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 207 among others, via the d ivalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), the t ransferrin re- ceptor (TfR), the divalent metal/bicarbonate ion symporters ZIP8 and ZIP14, various calcium channels, the solute carrier-39 (SLC39) family of Z n trans- porters, park9/ATP13A2, the Mg transporter hip14, the transient receptor po- tential melastatin 7 (TRPM7) channels/transporters, homomeric purine recep- tors (P2X and P2Y), and the citrate transporter . Iron Heme Iron in Host–Microbe Interaction There is a key and singular aspect related to Fe metabolism that should be tak- en into consideration in the context of host–microbe interactions in mammals: the vast majority of bioavailable iron in the affected host is actually contained inside the prosthetic heme groups of hemoproteins. Mechanisms which control host heme synthesis, transport , and catabolism (Gozzelino and Soares 2014) should thus play a critical role in the maintenance of host– microbe interactions and in the pathologic outcome of
