Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


host heme synthesis, transport , and catabolism (Gozzelino and Soares 2014) should thus play a critical role in the maintenance of host– microbe interactions and in the pathologic outcome of infectious diseases. R eactive oxygen and nitrogen species produced by host innate immune cells during microbial infections, which confers resistance to infection, can eventually lead to host tissue damage and exacerbate rather than prevent the severity of infectious diseases . Moreover, infl amma- tory and i mmune responses are associated with varying degrees of hemoly- sis and rhabdomyolysis, and hence with the release of noncovalently bound heme from hemoglobin and myoglobin, generating free heme (Gozzelino et al. 2012). The impact of this event in the deregulation of Fe metabolism dur- ing infections should be appreciated, taking into account that the majority of the iron is contained within the heme groups of h emoglobin and m yoglobin (Gozzelino and Soares 2014). The redox activity of nonhemoprotein-bound heme, “free heme,” is no longer under the control of the amino acids that sur- round the prosthetic heme groups within the so-called heme pockets of these hemoproteins. Presumably for this reason, free heme is highly pro-oxidant and cytotoxic, exerting proinfl ammatory effects through the engagement of spe- cifi c pattern recognition receptors, such as the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR-4) that is expressed by monocytes/macrophages as well as in endothelial cells . Free heme can also exert chemotactic effects via the engagement of G protein-coupled receptors expressed in polymorphonucelar cells. The combination of these effects has a signifi cant and yet unappreciated impact on the outcome of infectious diseases . To ensure regulated adaptation of heme transport and catabolism, several stress response systems have evolved to minimize the negative impact caused by the generation of free heme during infection . These systems are essential to control the proinfl ammatory, vasoactive and cytotox- icity effects of heme, as well as to sustain systemic Fe homeostasis, avoiding 208 D. Rehder et al. tissue Fe o verload, tissue damage, and a nemia in the infected host (Soares et al. 2009). The impact of such regulatory pathways has been demonstrated unequivocally for the heme-catabolizing enzyme heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in mice, as well as in humans , where HO-1 defi ciency is asso- ciated with impaired Fe recycling, anemia, vascular damage, and depletion of hemophagocytic macrophages , presumably driven by heme cytotoxicity . Moreover HO-1 defi ciency renders infected hosts
