Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


ciency is asso- ciated with impaired Fe recycling, anemia, vascular damage, and depletion of hemophagocytic macrophages , presumably driven by heme cytotoxicity . Moreover HO-1 defi ciency renders infected hosts extremely susceptible to systemic infections, as demonstrated for severe s epsis , m alaria, and more recently for t ubercu- losis . The protective effect afforded by HO-1 expression against systemic in- fections has been linked to the adaptation of cells to cellular and tissue Fe overload (Gozzelino and Soares 2014). This is demonstrated by the fi nding that deletion of the ferritin H chain gene, which acts downstream of HO-1 to neutralize the pro-oxidant effect of the iron released from heme catabolism, is strictly required to support the protective effect of HO-1 against systemic infections, as has been demonstrated for malaria. In the context of systemic infections, the induction of HO-1 expression in the host is essential to provide protection against the cytotoxic effects and presumably the proinfl ammatory and vasoactive impact of free heme. These salutary effects are essential to reduce tissue damage and hence disease sever- ity, and to support host survival. This host defense strategy, while essential to the survival of an infected host, does not appear to exert a negative impact on the pathogen—a phenomenon referred to as disease tolerance (Gozzelino and Soares 2014). Gasotransmitters: The Interaction of Nitric Oxide and Carbon Monoxide with the Heme Group Gasotransmitters are biologically active molecules produced physiologically by several evolutionary conserved enzymes . These gas- eous molecules include nitric oxide, generated by the enzymatic conversion of L-arginine and molecular oxygen to L-citrulline (Figure 13.3a) and cata- lyzed by different nitric oxide synthases (NOS). Carbon monoxide is gener- ated through the catabolism of heme (Figure 13.3b) and catalyzed by different isoforms of heme oxidases. Hydrogen sulfi de (H S) is produced from cysteine by cystathionine beta-synthase and cystathionine gamma-lyase, but will not be covered in further detail here. Gasotransmitters share biophysical properties that include lipid solubil- ity, which allows for diffusion across cellular membranes and underlies their intrinsic ability to target, more or less distally, specifi c intracellular signal transduction pathways without requiring classical cognate ligand/receptor in- teractions . This occurs, for example, via the physical interaction of gaseous molecules with t ransition metals . This is Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 209 Figure 13.3 ( a) Formation of n itric oxide: NO is catalyzed by nitrogen
