Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


molecules with t ransition metals . This is Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 209 Figure 13.3 ( a) Formation of n itric oxide: NO is catalyzed by nitrogen oxide synthase, NOS, in a two-step process via an [NOH] intermediate. [H] represents reduction equivalents, commonly delivered by nicotine adenine dinucleotide NADPH. (b) Carbon monoxide (CO) forms by oxidative catabolism of free heme, catalyzed by heme oxygenase (HO). A potent inducer for the transcription of the HO-1 gene is nitric oxide. well illustrated for iron in the context of Fe-S clusters or heme groups within metalloproteins. Briefl y, NO or CO binding to Fe2+ within Fe-S clusters or in the prosthetic heme groups of metalloproteins can modify the tertiary struc- ture of those proteins and their biological activity, as illustrated, among oth- ers, for guanylate cyclase, an enzyme that generates cyclic guanosine mono- phosphate (cGMP), or for cytochrome-c. Although the s ignaling pathway for NO includes other well-established mechanisms (e.g., tyrosine nitrosylation), transition metal-mediated signal transduction appears to be a general principle by which gasotransmitters exert their biological effects. While the output of this interaction is specifi c to each gasotransmitter, this common mechanism illustrates how regulation of the metabolism of t ransition metals may affect the biologic action of gasotransmitters. Interaction of gasotransmitters with Fe2+ produces additional effects that can be critical for the outcome of infectious diseases. For example, as a pro- oxidant labile-free radical, NO’s interaction with Fe2+ in the heme group of h emoglobin results not only in tight binding and scavenging of this gasotrans- mitter, but also promotes the oxidation of hemoglobin ; this, in turn, can then act in a proinfl ammatory manner to impact the outcome of infectious diseases, as illustrated for sepsis (Larsen et al. 2010; Adamzik et al. 2012). In contrast, the interaction of CO with Fe2+ in the heme groups of hemoglobin has the opposite effect: Fe heme oxidation is prevent- ed as is hemoglobin oxidation. Ultimately, this blocks heme release from the 210 D. Rehder et al. globulin chains of hemoglobin (Pamplona et al. 2007; Gozzelino et al. 2010). This latter effect is suffi cient in itself to explain the protective effect of this gasotransmitter against the pathological outcome of malaria (Pamplona et al. 2007; Ferreira et al. 2008), the infectious disease triggered by P lasmodium in- fection . It is likely that in a similar manner to hemoglobin,
