Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of malaria (Pamplona et al. 2007; Ferreira et al. 2008), the infectious disease triggered by P lasmodium in- fection . It is likely that in a similar manner to hemoglobin, CO can prevent heme release from other hemoproteins such as myoglobin. Whether this effect of CO also limits the pathologic outcome of other infec- tious diseases remains to be established, but it is likely to be the case. Interplay of Iron Distribution between (Infectious) Microbes and Host Cells Infected host cells tend to control the homeostasis of essential metals, either by limiting the availability of metals that are necessary to maintain the physiology and replication of microbes, or by exposing microbes to high (and thus toxic) concentrations of metals directly or indirectly (e.g., by increasing free radical formation). One example is the Fenton reaction: Fe2+ + H O → Fe3+ + OH + 2 2 •OH. The host immune system affects the availability of essential metal ions for microbes through cytokines (hormonal regulators or signaling molecules). The microbes, in turn, activate pathways to secure a suffi cient supply of metal ions. In the case of Fe homeostasis (cf. discussion in the next section), monocytes and differentiated macrophages (i.e., cells that digest bacteria, dying cells, and senescent erythrocytes) are involved in the regulation of Fe levels and free radical production, including reactive o xygen and nitrogen species. The limi- tation of the availability of iron for invading pathogens is termed “nutritional i mmunity.” Instantaneous Fe retention by macrophages (and thus restricted availability of plasma iron in the case of an infection) is also induced through binding greater amounts of h epcidin to the f erroportin (Figure 13.2) of macro- phages; this switches off the transport protein ferroportin and causes Fe reten- tion in the macrophages and Fe depletion in the (infected) surroundings. In addition, decreased expression of ferroportin, coupled with the inhibition of ferritin (the Fe storage protein) translation, provides a basic means to reduce Fe supply. Inhibition of ferritin translation, in turn, is partly coupled to the stimu- lation of NO formation. Patients with chronic infl ammation, therefore, suffer from Fe defi ciency ( hypoferremia) and high serum ferritin (h yperferritinemia), and thus develop anemia. As noted above, bioavailable iron in mammals exists mainly within the hy- drophobic methene-bridged tetrapyrrole ring of heme as a prosthetic group in hemoproteins. The most abundant of these are hemoglobin and myoglobin, with another
