Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


in mammals exists mainly within the hy- drophobic methene-bridged tetrapyrrole ring of heme as a prosthetic group in hemoproteins. The most abundant of these are hemoglobin and myoglobin, with another signifi cant pool of ubiquitously expressed hemoproteins formed by cytochromes. Mechanisms controlling host heme metabolism, including heme synthesis, transport and catabolism (Gozzelino and Soares 2014), play a critical role in the maintenance of host–microbe interac- tions as well as in the pathologic outcome of infectious diseases. Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 211 I ron homeostasis is also linked to Cu homeostasis through the Cu-based ferroxidases h ephaestin (Figure 13.2) and c eruloplasmin. Thus, Cu defi ciency prevents the incorporation of Fe3+ into ferritin and provokes an overload of free iron and Fe(hydr)oxide deposits. Comparable to the Fenton reaction (see above), Cu+ can promote the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Cu/ Zn superoxide dismutase (S OD) catalyzes the disproportionation (and thus de- toxifi cation) of superoxide to peroxide and dioxygen (2O  + 2H+ → H O + 2 2 2 O ). Thus, Cu defi ciency prevents the effective removal of the ROS hyperox- ide O . One of the many problems encountered with Zn defi ciency points to the same direction. Similar considerations also apply for Mn-dependent SODs. Impact on Anti-Immune Effector Functions The development of anemia in infl ammation and c hronic disease not only lim- its the availability of iron for microbes, it also strengthens the i mmune response that is directed at invading pathogens. Specifi cally, Fe loading of monocytes/ macrophages inhibits interferon gamma (IFN-γ)-mediated pathways, such as formation of T NF-α, reduced expression of the major histocompatibility com- plex class II antigens and the intracellular adhesion molecule 1, decreased for- mation of neopterin, and impaired tryptophan degradation via IFN-γ mediated induction of indole-amine-2,3-dioxygenase . As a result, Fe-loaded macrophages have an impaired potential to kill various bacteria, parasites, and fungi (such as Legionella, Listeria, Ehrlichia, Mycobacteria, Salmonella, L eishmania, Plasmodia, Candida, Mucor) as well as viruses, in vitro and in vivo through IFN-γ mediated pathways (see also Cavet et al., this volume). Part of this can be attributed to the reduced formation of NO in the presence of iron, since NO is an essential effector molecule of macrophages to fi ght infectious pathogens and tumor cells (see above). Iron blocks the tran- scription of inducible NO synthase (iNOS or NOSII), the enzyme
