Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


an essential effector molecule of macrophages to fi ght infectious pathogens and tumor cells (see above). Iron blocks the tran- scription of inducible NO synthase (iNOS or NOSII), the enzyme responsible for cytokine-inducible high-output formation of NO by hepatocytes or macro- phages. This is attributed to a direct infl uence of iron on the binding affi nities of transcription factors, such as the nuclear factor for the expression of IL-6 or the hypoxia inducible factor-1 . According to the regu- latory feedback loop, NO produced by activated macrophages activates the iron responsible element (IRE) of the binding function of the iron regulatory protein (IRP-1), leading to inhibition of ferritin translation, and thus linking maintenance of Fe homeostasis to NO formation for host defense. Through its deactivating effect on the IFN-γ function, iron also affects the balance of the thymus helper (Th) cells T 1/T 2. T 1 effector functions are weakened, H H H whereas T 2-mediated cytokine production, such as the activity of IL-4, is H increased, a condition which is rather unfavorable in an infection (Mencacci et al. 1997; Nairz et al. 2010). Iron overload also has negative effects on neutro- phil function, as Fe therapy of chronic hemodialysis patients impairs the po- tential of neutrophils to kill bacteria, thus reducing their capacity to phagocyte 212 D. Rehder et al. foreign particles . By modulating cytokine activities, iron also triggers macrophage polarization, and opposing M1 and M2 macrophages dif- fer in contrasting metabolic profi les in regard to Fe homeostasis (Recalcati et al. 2010). Moreover, the induction of M2 polarization along with increased expression of the heme oxygenase HO-1 has been linked to immune tolerance in infections, specifi cally malaria. Thus, both F e overload and F e defi ciency have unfavorable immunological effects in vivo. Accordingly, mice kept on an Fe-rich diet exhibited a reduced production of IFN-γ as compared to mice fed with a normal diet, whereas ani- mals that received an Fe-defi cient diet presented with decreased T cell prolif- eration (Omara and Blakley 1994). Mortality increased in both Fe-overloaded and Fe-defi cient mice when a sublethal dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was received, compared to animals with a normal Fe status. In one specifi c study, Fe-defi cient children in Malawi featured exhibited a reduced incidence of infection, paralleled by (a) a higher percentage of CD8+ cells1 which produced IL-6, (b) a more pronounced expression
