Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


study, Fe-defi cient children in Malawi featured exhibited a reduced incidence of infection, paralleled by (a) a higher percentage of CD8+ cells1 which produced IL-6, (b) a more pronounced expression of lymphocytes with T cell activation markers, and (c) an increased formation of IFN-γ as compared to children with a normal Fe status . This ob- servation coincides with an adverse outcome in children receiving F e supple- mentation, mainly as a consequence of an increased incidence of severe ma- laria and b acterial infection , and an improved outcome in children with cerebral malaria who received the Fe chelator desferrioxamine, stimulating the antimalarial immune responses. In Africa, an endemic form of secondary Fe overload—traced back to the consumption of traditional Fe- containing beer and linked to a mutation in the ferroportin gene (Gordeuk et al. 2003; Navarro and Visbal, this volume)—is associated with an increased incidence and mortality from t uberculosis. These data are supported by in vitro fi ndings which show that changes in intramacrophage Fe availability stimu- lates the proliferation of mycobacteria and weakens antimycobacterial defense mechanisms of macrophages. Other infections, ranging from bacterial, viral and fungal to parasitic diseases, where Fe overload is associated with an un- favorable course of infection and/or an impaired immune response, have been reviewed . The importance of iron for antimicrobial immune response pathways is fur- ther underscored by the fi nding that many innate resistance genes of macro- phages act by limiting Fe availability for intracellular bacteria. Macrophages exposed to the intracellular bacterium S almonella typhimurium increase ex- pression of ferroportin, which results in a stimulation of cellular Fe export and a limitation of Fe availability for intramacrophage bacteria, and leads to improved control of bacterial proliferation by macrophages. This is partly due to the fact that a reduction of cytoplasmic iron increases the activity of immune CD8 (CD stands for cluster of differentiation) is a transmembrane glycoprotein; CD8+ is short for cytotoxin T cells with a CD8 surface protein. Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 213 effector pathways, such as T NF-α, IL-6, IL-12, or N O formation (Nairz et al. 2010). Importantly, part of the antimicrobial activities of the Th-1 cytokine IFN-γ and iNOS have been linked to their ability to limit Fe availability in bacteria. Briefl y, induction of iNOS by macrophages exposed to intracellular bacteria activates the transcription factor Nrf2 (a regulator of the antioxidant
