Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


to their ability to limit Fe availability in bacteria. Briefl y, induction of iNOS by macrophages exposed to intracellular bacteria activates the transcription factor Nrf2 (a regulator of the antioxidant defense in macrophages), which stimulates ferroportin transcription, induces the export of iron from Salmonella-infected macrophages, and stimulates anti- microbial immune effector pathways. Importantly, the impaired control of Salmonella infection in iNOS–/– mice can be completely overcome when mice are treated with the Fe chelator desferrasirox . The crucial role of ferroportin-mediated Fe export for h ost defense against infections with intracellular pathogens is further supported by the observation that overex- pression of ferroportin in macrophages can control the infection by a number of intracellular bacteria, such as C hlamydia sp., Legionella, Salmonella, or Mycobacteria . Another immune gene that exemplifi es the role of iron for infection is the phagolysosomal protein Nramp1 (natural resistance-associated macro- phage protein 1). Expression of Nramp1 is associated with r esistance toward infections by intracellular pathogens such as L eishmania, Salmonella, or Mycobacteria spp. mainly by shuttling divalent metals across the phagolysom- al membrane (Blackwell et al. 2001; Forbes and Gros 2001). Investigations of the RAW264.7 macrophage cell line stably transfected with functional or nonfunctional Nramp1 demonstrated that macrophages which lack functional Nramp1 exhibited a signifi cantly higher Fe uptake via the TfR and, as a conse- quence, an increased Fe release mediated through increased ferroportin expres- sion. Accordingly, as a net effect of the altered expression of Fe transporters, the overall cellular Fe content was lower in macrophages bearing functional Nramp1 . This provides further support to the hypothesis that Nramp1 expression confers resistance toward intracellular pathogens by limiting the availability of iron to the microbes; a contribution to Fe-mediated formation of toxic radicals has also been discussed (Forbes and Gros 2001). In addition, Nramp1-mediated alterations of Fe homeostasis stimulate antimicro- bial immune effector function, as refl ected by increased formation of NO or TNF-α, whereas the expression of the anti-infl ammatory cytokine IL-10 is sig- nifi cantly reduced . Recent evidence suggests that Nramp1 functionality results in increased formation of lipocalin 2 (also known as s ider- ocalin or NGAL) . Lipocalin 2 is a neutrophil (gelatinase- associated) and macrophage-derived peptide which captures Fe-laden micro- bial siderophores, thus interfering with the acquisition of siderophore-bound iron by specifi c Gram-negative bacteria, such as Escherichia coli or Klebsiella spp. . Moreover, l ipocalin 2 delivers
