Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Fe-laden micro- bial siderophores, thus interfering with the acquisition of siderophore-bound iron by specifi c Gram-negative bacteria, such as Escherichia coli or Klebsiella spp. . Moreover, l ipocalin 2 delivers siderophore-bound iron to mammalian cells that are able to import the complex via a lipocalin 2 receptor. Most interestingly, recent data provide evidence for the existence of mammali- an siderophores that are captured by lipocalin 2, thus 214 D. Rehder et al. indicating that lipocalin 2 may be involved in transcellular and transmembrane Fe traffi cking in mammals. In addition, lipocalin 2 expression affects neutrophil recruitment to the sites of infection which, depending on the underlying pathogen, exerts contrasting effects on infection outcomes . Interestingly, l ipocalin 2 is also secreted during infection with non-siderophore-producing pathogens, such as Chlamydia or P lasmodia. Concomitantly, lipocalin limits Fe availabil- ity for Plasmodia, thereby impairing e rythropoiesis. Impaired erythropoiesis, in turn, restrains the replication of Plasmodia. Thus, through the mechanisms described above, lipocalin 2 stimulates innate i mmune responses via limitation of Fe availability . By a similar mechanism, lipocalin 2 may confer resistance to infection by the intracellular bacterial species S almonella and Mycobacteria in patients suffering from h ereditary hemochromatosis. As a consequence of reduced h epcidin formation and increased expression of lipo- calin 2 upon infection, macrophages of these patients are Fe defi cient and are thus a hostile environment for these pathogens . It is important to note that host-mediated alterations of Fe homeostasis (e.g., via the formation of hepcidin) may directly impact the proliferation of microbes. It has been shown that hepcidin expression negatively affects the proliferation of intrahepatic sporozoites, but may also affect the susceptibility to infection with Fe-dependent pathogens, such as Salmonella (Portugal et al. 2011). Accordingly, it appears that different regulatory mechanisms are initi- ated, depending on the type of the infectious pathogens. Hepcidin induction appears to be a very effi cient strategy to limit Fe availability in extracellular bacteria, where nutrient iron is restricted within the reticulo-endothelial sys- tem. This strategy appears, however, to be detrimental for intracellular patho- gens, where multiple pathways lead to the mobilization and export of iron out of macrophages, rendering them Fe defi cient—a fact that ameliorates the con- trol of infection with intracellular microbes and also positively affects innate immune responses. Copper Copper is present in a variety of essential redox enzymes such as cytochrome oxidase, C u/Zn-SOD,
