Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


trol of infection with intracellular microbes and also positively affects innate immune responses. Copper Copper is present in a variety of essential redox enzymes such as cytochrome oxidase, C u/Zn-SOD, a nd others. Importantly, copper is also a critical cofactor for high-affi nity Fe uptake in fungi, Fe effl ux from intestinal epithelial cells and macrophages, and Fe loading onto t ransferrin in mammals (see Figure 13.2 for the interplay of iron and copper). In mammals, copper is absorbed at the apical surface of the intestinal epi- thelium primarily by the high-affi nity Cu(I) importer Ctr1 in a manner involv- ing cell surface Cu(II) metalloreductase activity. Copper uptake at the apical surface is modulated by Cu-dependent endocytosis of Ctr1, but as high Zn levels can block intestinal Cu absorption, additional Cu t ransport mechanisms (at the cell surface or at the basolateral membrane) may be involved. Within Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 215 the cytosol, copper is distributed to enzymes, such as Cu/Zn-SOD, or to the secretory compartment by Cu chaperone proteins CCS (Cu chaperone for SOD) and Atox1 (antioxidant protein 1), respectively. Atox1 transfers cop- per to the Cu-transporting P-type ATPases, ATP7a, expressed in the intestine, and ATP7b, expressed in the liver and other tissues, for import into the lumen of the trans-Golgi network for loading onto secreted Cu-dependent proteins. Under elevated Cu concentrations, intestinal epithelial ATP7a localizes to the basolateral membrane, where it mobilizes copper into the circulation; con- sequently, mutations in the ATP7a gene cause Menkes disease, an X-linked peripheral C u defi ciency that typically results in death by 2 or 3 years of age. In contrast, mutations in the ATP7b gene result in hepatic Cu accumulation: normally, ATP7b excretes biliary Cu, and neuronal dysfunction results from Cu overload. Copper is clearly required for innate immune cell function in at least two ways. First, copper drives the development of neutrophil myeloid progenitor cells. As the mechanisms for this are as yet unknown, understanding the role of copper in neutrophil development represents a key area for further investiga- tion. As dietary Cu defi ciency or c ancer chemotherapy lead to n eutropenia and predispose mammals to infectious diseases, knowledge in this area is needed to determine dietary or genetic predisposition to infection via inadequate Cu ho- meostasis or dysfunction of the Cu homeostatic machinery. This is particularly relevant since neutropenia is one of the most
