Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


determine dietary or genetic predisposition to infection via inadequate Cu ho- meostasis or dysfunction of the Cu homeostatic machinery. This is particularly relevant since neutropenia is one of the most sensitive consequences of dietary Cu defi ciency. Second, recent accumulating evidence supports a microbiocidal role for copper in the macrophage phagosomal lumen. In response to proin- fl ammatory conditions, expression of both Ctr1 at the plasma membrane and ATP7a (which partially localizes to the phagosomal membrane) is elevated, driving Cu accumulation in the lumen, as ascertained by X-ray fl uorescence microscopy studies. RNA iterference-mediated knock down of ATP7a compro- mises macrophage antibacterial activity, providing strong evidence for the im- portance of Cu compartmentalization in the phagosome as one of several im- portant host defense mechanisms. Still, the mode by which phagosomal copper is particularly potent in killing microbial pathogens is not well understood. Mycobacterium tuberculosis has three independent Cu-resistance pathways that involve the Cu-sensitive operon repressor (CsoR), the mycobacterial Cu t ransport protein B (MctB), and the regulated-in Cu repressor (RicR) (Shi et al. 2014). Because M. tuberculosis is a human-exclusive pathogen, the evolution of this bacterium to possess three Cu-resistance pathways strongly suggests that it encounters toxic levels of Cu in the host and that this may be driving multiple pathways for resistance. There are varying reports on increased incidence of microbial infection in patients suffering from Menkes disease. However, the precise impact of Cu defi ciency on this observation may be obfuscated by the plethora of clinical phenotypes presented in patients that are both a direct or indirect consequence of peripheral Cu defi ciency. Future studies will need to elucidate mammalian 216 D. Rehder et al. sources of antimicrobial copper; in particular, c eruloplasmin, an abundant multi-copper oxidase which may play a role in addition to (or perhaps in some instances in place of) ATP7a. Moreover, mice supplemented with copper are better able to control tuberculosis growth (Rowland and Niederweis 2013). In mice, the RicR regulon is required for Cu r esistance and virulence (Shi et al. 2014). Copper-resistance mechanisms, via the Cu-specifi c activation of m etallothionein gene transcription, also play a role in C ryptococcus neofor- mans (a fungus) infections . Zinc Distribution during Infection During b acterial infection z inc rapidly shifts from the serum into the liver . Zinc uptake and intracellular distribution is mediated by Zn trans- porters from two families: Zn transporter
