Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


b acterial infection z inc rapidly shifts from the serum into the liver . Zinc uptake and intracellular distribution is mediated by Zn trans- porters from two families: Zn transporter (ZnT, SLC30A1-10) and Zrt- and Irt- like proteins (ZIP, SLC39A1-14). ZIPs increase cytosolic zinc whereas ZnTs decrease it. Knowledge about the concentration of tissue zinc is incomplete. Serum zinc drops down, since the Zn transporter ZIP14 is upregulated in the liver ; this results in tissue Zn accumulation. ZIP14 expres- sion is induced by the proinfl ammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-1 (Lichten and Cousins 2009). In other infectious diseases, this shift of zinc has not been di- rectly shown, but since the effect is mediated by cytokines also released during parasitic, viral, and fungal infections, this seems to be a general effect. On the cellular level, Zn redistribution is more complicated. Some stud- ies have shown that, in macrophages, zinc is accumulated in the cytoplasm, whereas it is depleted in the phagolysosomes. Enrichment of zinc in the pha- golysosomes has also been noted. A detailed comparison of the studies re- vealed that zinc is enriched during bacterial infections but is depleted during infections with protozoa (Haase and Rink 2014). This may imply that the mac- rophages are able to distinguish between different types of pathogens, and thus choose the appropriate defense mechanism. Since zinc in high concentration is toxic for bacteria , this would be the obvious approach for this type of infection, whereas Zn defi ciency could induce programmed cell death in eukaryotic cells. Role in Host Resistance, Susceptibility, and Tolerance The essentiality o f zinc for the immune system has been known for decades. Zinc defi ciency always results in an immune defi ciency . Generally, one has to distinguish between a general effect of zinc on the cell cycle and proliferation, and specifi c effects toward immune cells. Since the immune sys- tem is the organ system with the highest proliferation rate in the human body (e.g., 80 million neutrophils are released from the bone marrow per minute), Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 217 any m icronutrient defi ciency with an infl uence on cell proliferation will reduce the immune response due to leukopenia. However, several specifi c effects of zinc on the immune system are known . The fi rst observation revealed a reduction of the number of T cells due to t hymus
