Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


several specifi c effects of zinc on the immune system are known . The fi rst observation revealed a reduction of the number of T cells due to t hymus atrophy. Atrophy of the thymus is induced by a lack in active thymulin, a nonapeptide thymic hormone that is only active in its Zn- bound state (Figure 13.4). Thymulin is involved in T cell differentiation. The infl uence of Zn defi ciency on the B lymphocyte system is less pronounced. There is no effect on mature B cells, whereas the number of B cell precur- sors is reduced. The number of monocytes/macrophages and dendritic cells is increased during Zn defi ciency, since Zn defi ciency promotes the differen- tiation of myeloid cells into monocytes/macrophages as well as dendritic cell maturation. Differentiation of neutrophils, however, is not infl uenced by Zn defi ciency (Haase and Rink 2014). Furthermore, Zn defi ciency results in a proinfl ammatory phenotype of the immune system, depending on the increased number of macrophages as well as on direct epigenetic effects on proinfl ammatory cytokine genes (Wessels et al. 2013). Zinc-defi cient macrophages produce the proinfl ammatory cytokines, the i nterleukins IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-α without a danger signal, normally need- ed for the induction. At least for IL-1, zinc opens the promoter of the IL-1 gene, leading to an enhanced transcription of the gene . Interestingly, the promoter is closed after addition of exogenous zinc, so that the activity of the gene is directly regulated by the cellular Zn concentration. While the monocytes/macrophages show a chronic infl ammatory status due to Zn defi ciency, the T helper cell (T 1) system exhibits a reduced capacity, re- H sulting in a decreased production of IL-2 and IFN-γ. These two effects trigger chronic infl ammatory diseases and an increased number of infections (Rink Figure 13.4 B inding of Zn2+ to thymulin. The zinc ion is in a tetrahedral environment, coordinated to a water molecule and side-chain oxygen functions of two serinates (red and mauve) and one aspartate (blue) of the nonapeptide (after Dardenne and Pleau 1994). 218 D. Rehder et al. 2011). In contrast to the T 1 system, the T 2 system remains almost uninfl u- H H enced by Zn defi ciency, in regard to cytokine production. However, the signal transduction of IL-4 is diminished in the case of Zn defi ciency (Rink 2011; Gruber et
