Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


H enced by Zn defi ciency, in regard to cytokine production. However, the signal transduction of IL-4 is diminished in the case of Zn defi ciency (Rink 2011; Gruber et al. 2013). Combined, both effects result in T 2 dominance during Zn H defi ciency. Zinc supplementation restores the T 1 system, inducing a normal H production of IL-2 and IFN-γ. Cellular activation is also infl uenced by Zn defi ciency, since the release of zinc into the cytoplasm is a signal comparable to that otherwise initiated by calcium (Haase and Rink 2009). Zinc signals are generated by TLRs, the T cell receptor, and some cytokine receptors (Haase and Rink 2009, 2014; Rink and Maywald 2014). Therefore, Zn defi ciency results in a lack of an appropriate signal of the respective receptor. The function of zinc in the signaling process is not completely understood, but one effect is the inhibition of phosphatases stabilizing the signal induced by kinase activities. Clearly described examples are the mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase and PTEN phosphatase and tensin homolog in IL-2 signaling (Haase and Rink 2014). However, sig- nal transducer and activator of transcription STAT-5 phosphorylation in IL-2 signaling is not infl uenced, showing that zinc has some specifi city in its in- hibitory capacity. On the other hand, STAT-6 phosphorylation induced by IL-4 is negatively infl uenced by Zn defi ciency, whereas STAT-3 phosphorylation induced by IL-6 is increased . A complete picture of the Zn-regulated signaling pathways is still missing, but a summary of the most important pathways is illustrated in Figure 13.5. Finally, zinc is important for the induction of regulatory T cells (Treg) and for tolerance induction. Zinc stabilizes the Treg-specifi c transcription factor Foxp3 due to an inhibition of the histondeacetylase sirtuin-1 (Haase and Rink 2014; Rink and Maywald 2014). Normally, sirtuin-1 deacetylates Foxp3 resulting in an ubiquitinylation and degradation of this transcription factor. When sirtuin-1 is inhibited, Foxp3 will not be degraded, eventuating in a regulatory phenotype of the T cells. Therefore, Zn homeostasis is important to maintain the complete capability of the immune system to interact with immune activation or tolerance. Thus, Zn defi ciency is not only accompanied by a high frequency of infections, but also by an increase of allergies and autoimmune diseases . Excess zinc also exerts negative effects on the i mmune response, although this is not as stringently defi ned as Zn defi
