Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


an increase of allergies and autoimmune diseases . Excess zinc also exerts negative effects on the i mmune response, although this is not as stringently defi ned as Zn defi ciency. Whereas slightly increased Zn levels inhibit phosphatases only, unphysiologically high concentrations have been shown to inhibit kinases, thereby interrupting signaling by various receptors. Furthermore, high Zn concentrations decrease the fl uidity of membranes and thereby reduce the clustering of receptors normally needed for an effective signal transduction. High Zn concentrations also have negative effects on differentiation and maturation of monocytes/macrophages (Haase and Rink 2009; Rink 2011). Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 219 Therapeutic Effects in Infectious Diseases of Children The recognition of the many roles of zinc in human immune and nonimmune defenses against infection, and the increased rates of infectious diseases with severe Zn defi ciency syndromes have led to a hypothesis that children with milder degrees of Zn defi ciency may be at increased risk of infections. If true, this could result in a large disease burden due to the high prevalence of Zn defi ciency and high rates of infectious diseases in low- and middle- income countries. Because of the frequent co-occurrence of Zn defi ciency with other nutritional defi ciencies, the limitations of determining the Zn status in individuals, and the potential confounding of the relationship with socioeconomic conditions affecting the Zn status and infections, observational studies are not suited to test this hypothesis. Thus, numerous randomized controlled trials, in which the effects of zinc can be segregated, have been conducted. Some of these trials have been focused on the treatment of specifi c childhood infectious diseases, while others have sought to determine whether daily or weekly Zn supplementation can reduce the incidence of infectious diseases. In all trials where this hypothesis has been assessed, children receiving zinc versus those not receiving zinc is the sole variable between the comparison groups. Most trials have been done to assess the effect of zinc in treating diarrhea in children. The fi rst defi nitive trial in India found a 23% (95% Confi dence Interval 12–32%) reduction in diarrhea duration . In the nearly two decades since that trial was published, more than a hundred randomized trials of zinc in treatment of diarrhea have been conducted. Overall they confi rm that Zn supplementation reduces the diarrhea episode duration by about one quarter . Furthermore, trials done
