Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


trials of zinc in treatment of diarrhea have been conducted. Overall they confi rm that Zn supplementation reduces the diarrhea episode duration by about one quarter . Furthermore, trials done in diarrhea due to specifi c etiologies have shown a similar effect in childhood illness caused by Shigella sp. and Vibrio cholera. Clinical trials in health facilities and community-based trials of Zn supplementation for diarrhea treatment have shown that this has some preventive effects also for diarrhea and lower respiratory diseases; the community studies further show a reduction in hospitalizations from diarrhea and p neumonia, and in child mortality . These fi ndings resulted in a recommendation, in 2004 from WHO and UNICEF, that zinc (20 mg per day) be used along with fl uids to manage all childhood diarrhea. Some, but not all, trials of zinc in the treatment of pneumonia have found benefi t, and a recent trial in young infants with probable serious bacterial infection showed a reduction in treatment failure rates with Zn supplementation. Trials to evaluate the possible preventive effect of daily or weekly Zn sup- plementation have also been widely done. A recent meta-analysis included 33 comparisons involving almost 17,000 children . Overall there was a 20% (95% Confi dence Interval 10–29%) lower incidence of diar- rhea in children who received zinc. A preventive effect of zinc on acute low- er respiratory infections has also been demonstrated. Very large randomized 220 D. Rehder et al. controlled trials of Zn supplementation have been carried out in Zanzibar and Nepal (Sazawal et al. 2007; Tielsch et al. 2007). These showed a reduction of 18% (95% Confi dence Interval 4–30%) in total mortality in children 12–47 months of age. Figure 13.5 Infl uence of zinc on the signaling pathways (modifi ed after Rink and Maywald 2014). Top: Zinc interacts with a multitude of signaling pathways in dif- ferent leukocyte subsets. During the activation of the adaptive immune system, the central interaction (depicted) takes place between antigen-presenting cells (APC) and T cells. Zinc, however, infl uences the same (as well as some other) pathways in different leukocyte subsets. APCs are activated by pattern recognition receptors, e.g., Toll-like receptors (TLRs). All TLRs, with the exception of TLR-3, generate a Zn signal after stimulation with their specifi c ligand. Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 221 Figure 13.5 (continued) For example, the activation of TLR-4 by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from
