Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Zn signal after stimulation with their specifi c ligand. Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 221 Figure 13.5 (continued) For example, the activation of TLR-4 by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from Gram-negative bacteria is shown to induce a fast Zn release (dotted arrows) from zincosomes. This fast Zn signal (in green) is physiologically required for nuclear factor kappa B (NFκB) activation (solid arrows) as well as for the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling, both resulting in translocation of the appropriate transcription factors into the nucleus (dashed arrows). However, increasing Zn con- centration for a time (e.g., after use of ionophores, highlighted in red) inhibits even TLR-4 signaling ( ). This effect appears to be mediated by direct inhibition of the IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK), a de-ubiquitination of the tumor necrosis fac- tor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF-6) by upregulation of A20, a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibition or an inhibition of TIR-domain-containing adapter- inducing i nterferon-β (TRIF). PDE inhibition results in an increase of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). cGMP activates protein kinase A which inhibits RAF directly and NFκB indirectly. Lastly, increased intracellular Zn concentrations persisting for a longer time have the opposite effect due to an inhibition of adenylate cyclase (AC) transcription. Bottom: On the T cell side, zinc infl uences the signaling of the T cell receptor (TCR), as well as the signaling pathways of at least IL-1, IL-2, and IL-4. A Zn signal is directly induced by ZIP 6 due to an APC-mediated activation (green) of TCR. This re- sults in augmented ZAP phosphorylation, sustained Ca2+ infl ux, and downstream TCR signaling by binding of the lymphocyte-specifi c protein tyrosine kinase (LCK). The binding of IL-2 to its receptor (IL-2R) induces a Zn release from zincosomes (dotted arrow). The increased intracellular Zn concentration (red) mediates IRAK inhibition ( ), as described for APCs, and mediates c-Src tyrosine kinase (Csk)/protein ki- nase A (PKA) inhibition of LCK in TCR signaling. It also induces (solid arrows) a zeta-chain (TCR)-associated protein kinase (ZAP), and protein kinase C (PKC) activ- ity, MAPK signaling, and NF-κB phosphorylation. Lastly, calcineurin (CN) is inhibited by increased intracellular Zn concentrations, avoiding translocation into the nucleus (dashed arrows) of the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT). However, Zn defi - ciency also infl uences cytokine signaling in T cells. As an example, phosphorylation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) in IL-4R signaling is
