Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Zn defi - ciency also infl uences cytokine signaling in T cells. As an example, phosphorylation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) in IL-4R signaling is decreased during Zn defi ciency.Additional abbreviations: IKK, I kappa B kinase; IRF3, interferon regulatory factor 3; MKK, MAPK kinase; PKA, protein kinase A; PTP, pro- tein tyrosine phosphatases; AP-1 activator protein 1; GMP, guanosine monophosphate; GTP, guanosine triphosphate; MKP, MAP-kinase phosphatase; CREB, cyclic adenos- ine monophosphate response element-binding protein. Open Questions In this discussion on zinc, ambiguities with respect to Zn homeostasis, the mode of operation of zinc, and Zn supplementation in the case of infectious diseases have been insinuated. To some degree, these open questions also ap- ply to other essential metals. Thus, we briefl y summarize core issues that await resolution: • Is zinc needed for liver metabolism (e.g., in acute phase reaction)? • Is transient hypozincemia an activation signal for the immune system? • Does hypozincemia (the withholding of zinc from bacteria) constitute a similar defense mechanism as in iron? • How does Zn metabolism interact with the metabolisms of iron, cop- per, and manganese? 222 D. Rehder et al. • What are the actual molecular targets of zinc within the cell and/or in specifi c cell types? There are 14 Zn importers (ZIPs, responsible for an increase of cytoplasmatic zinc) and 10 Z n transporters (ZnTs, respon- sible for a decrease of cytoplasmatic zinc); however, their locations (cell type, compartment) are not completely understood yet. • How are parasites and microbes affected by high or low Zn levels, and what are the mechanisms of the therapeutic effects of zinc? • How are compartmentalization and speciation of zinc related? interact with Zn-containing enzymes and storage proteins (thioneins)? Selenium Background Selenium is incorporated into a variety of selenoproteins whose functions (e.g., calcium fl ux, oxidative burst, redox signaling, and effector immune functions) can exert a dramatic impact on infl ammation, immunity, and pathogen sta- tus . Selenium was among the fi rst micronutrients to be characterized in several species for alteration of immune function, including its immunological relationship to other antioxidant-modulating dietary factors (such as vitamin E). In humans, lower Se plasma concentrations have been associated with intensive care unit patients who experience severe infections, increased tissue infl ammation, subsequent organ dysfunction, and mortality . This general relationship is supported by numerous animal studies, which link Se status
