Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


care unit patients who experience severe infections, increased tissue infl ammation, subsequent organ dysfunction, and mortality . This general relationship is supported by numerous animal studies, which link Se status to innate immune defenses against pathogens in affected tissues, virulence of certain pathogens, and the risk of immune-medi- ated organ damage. Susceptibility to Viral and Bacterial Infections and to Parasites Evidence suggests that Se status and, in particular, Se defi ciency can affect the host–pathogen interaction in viral infections. In mouse models, mildly viru- lent forms of two different viruses, c oxsackievirus B3 and infl uenza, under- went unexpected genetic conversion to highly virulent forms with elevated risk of specifi c host pathology. The status of the antioxidant selenoenzyme g lutathione peroxidase a pparently plays a role in this host–pathogen alteration. Examples of similar nutritional–viral pathogenesis interactions appear to occur in humans . Evidence suggests that both S e defi ciency and supplementation can affect host immunity and resistance to b acterial infections. Selenium defi ciency ap- pears to target innate immune cell function, resulting in increased suscepti- bility to several bacterial diseases. With Se-defi cient mice, innate immune- mediated protection was reduced and burdens of L isteria monocytogenes were Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 223 elevated in several tissues over the course of the infection compared with di- etary controls . Selenium supplementation has been reported to protect against chronic bacterial (E. coli) prostatitis in a rat model. Alone, selenium reduced b acterial infection and lowered infl ammatory cell infi ltration of the prostate. In addition, Se supplementation enhanced the effectiveness of antibiotic treatment . Selenium also exerts direct effects on bacteria. Organoselenium compounds have been reported to inhibit the formation of b iofi lms among bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus . This has implications for both medical and dental procedures, where Se-based coat- ings have been applied to polycarbonate medical devices as well as in dental sealants. Selenium status affects both the host i mmune response and parasite me- tabolism. In the nematode infection of Heligmosomoides bakeri in mice, ad- equate Se supplementation affects local tissue T 2 response, resulting in worm H expulsion. With Se defi ciency, the T 2-driven immune response in tissues is H inadequate, glutathione protection is reduced, and the adult worms increase their metabolism, leading to enhanced pathogen success. In this model, di- etary restoration of Se levels
