Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


in tissues is H inadequate, glutathione protection is reduced, and the adult worms increase their metabolism, leading to enhanced pathogen success. In this model, di- etary restoration of Se levels can rapidly result in an effective host defense and worm expulsion . Selenium supplementation appears to produce h ost resistance benefi ts against trypanosomes. In rats infected with Trypanosoma bruceri, dietary Se supplementation beginning two weeks prior to infection resulted in reduced a nemia and parasitemias and increased sur- vival intervals . Evidence suggests that combined Se and v itamin E defi ciency can exert a signifi cant effect on the host immune status and pathogen susceptibility well beyond that of either single defi ciency. With Citrobacter rodentium infection in mice, double-defi cient animals had increased immune cell infi ltration of the colon with elevated production of both proinfl ammatory cytokines and mark- ers of o xidative stress. Bacterial burden was signifi cantly elevated in the dou- ble-defi cient animals . Recommended Dietary Allowances and Related Intake Levels The actual guideline for nutritional metal intake for healthy people is the RDA, differentiated according to sex, age, pregnancy, and lactation. Values vary for different countries (United States, China, European Union, Australia). Daily RDAs range between 3–22 mg for Zn, 6–15 mg for Fe, 0.2–1.7 mg for Cu, and 15–200 μg for S e. These guidelines are a source of information for nutritional advice and attempt to reduce the risk of diseases, including infectious diseases related to metal defi ciency. For z inc, the missing differentiation in RDAs be- tween the age groups 14–50/70 and >70 years of age comes as a surprise, since 224 D. Rehder et al. the bio-recovery of zinc decreases with age . For i ron, the RDA for males appears to be rather high, since just 1–2 mg are excreted daily. Along with RDAs come recommendations which list tolerable upper intake levels (UIL). The UIL defi nes the highest average daily intake that is likely to however, they are not recommended as being benefi cial to an individual. In particular, the UIL should be considered (and even challenged) in the case of self-medication (e.g., nutritional supplements available in drugstores and su- permarkets). Daily UILs range between 10–50 mg for iron, 4–40 mg for zinc, 1–10 mg for copper and 45–450 μg for selenium. For a detailed overview and corresponding tables of RDAs and UILs in re- lation
