Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


mg for iron, 4–40 mg for zinc, 1–10 mg for copper and 45–450 μg for selenium. For a detailed overview and corresponding tables of RDAs and UILs in re- lation to age, sex, and geographical areas, see Wang and Zhang (this volume). RDAs and UILs do not directly refl ect the bioavailability of the metals; that is, to what extent metal ions present in nutrients (and supplements) can actually be disposed of and utilized by an individual. As far as artifi cial formulations are concerned, absolute and relative bioavailability are distinguished: absolute bioavailability compares bioavailability following nonintravenous versus in- travenous application; r elative bioavailability compares b ioavailability from two differing formulations applied intravenously. Further, bioavailability de- pends on whether a metal is applied in the form of an inorganic compound, a metal ion coordinated to an organic chelate (e.g., an amino acid), or a conju- gate between yeast and an inorganic salt, etc. In addition, the bioavailability of metals depends on factors associated with ation, gut fl ora). Bioaccumulation and biomagnifi cation of metals can cause nutritional overloads of essential metals/metalloids that are required only in minor amounts, such as copper, molybdenum, and selenium. Furthermore, in- teraction between different metals can infl uence their uptake and distribution (e.g., by transporters for divalent metal ions), as discussed above. Metal-Based Drugs in the Treatment of Tropical Parasitic Diseases M etal-based drugs are used therapeutically to treat c ancer (c isplatin, carboplatin, and oxaliplatin), a rthritis (the gold compounds solganol, myocrisin, and aurano- fi n), and parasitic infections caused by l eishmaniasis and s chistosomiasis (anti- mony compounds based an antimonite plus gluconates) (see Navarro and Visbal, this volume). Examples of platinum, gold, and antimony complexes used me- dicinally are shown in Figure 13.6. In addition, silver and silver compounds are used as disinfectants, and other compounds, such as antidiabetic bis(maltolato) otherwise not in common use, and it does not appear that pharmaceutical com- panies commonly have interest in drugs that contain a metal core. Metals in Host–Microbe Interaction: The Host Perspective 225 H N 2 Pt O O AcO OAc O O S A – c A = u– a P ce ( t C yl H ) C O O O 2 – O CO 2 – 3Na+ H N 2 O O AcO OAc 2 5 3 HO HO H O O Sb – O S O b H O
