Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


2 – O CO 2 – 3Na+ H N 2 O O AcO OAc 2 5 3 HO HO H O O Sb – O S O b H O O H OH OH Oxaliplatin Auranofin Sodium stibogluconate Figure 13.6 E xamples for coordination compounds of metals that are in medicinal use: oxaliplatin (colorectal c ancer), auranofi n ( rheumatoid arthritis), and sodium stibogluconate ( leishmaniasis). Earlier we addressed the benefi ts that Se supplementation brings against trypanosomes, organisms which cause s leeping disease and C hagas disease (see also Navarro and Visbal, this volume). Promising in vivo and in vitro studies have used diverse metal complexes and shown that they are just as effective as antiparasitic drugs in combating leishmaniasis, Chagas disease (American t rypanosomiasis), a moebiasis, and malaria. These drugs exploit the metal–drug synergism: targeting is more effi cient (with respect to the employment of just the organic constituent), and drug stabilization equates to longer residence time. Thus, coordination compounds of r uthenium, copper, r hodium, platinum, and g old (Navarro et al. 2010; Biot et al. 2012), as well as v anadium (an early transition metal; for a review, see Rehder 2012) have successfully been tested for their antimicrobial activity against Trypanosoma and Leishmania parasites. Examples of effi cient ligand systems are hydrazones, semicarbazones, fl uorodiketones, sulfonamides, and 8-aminoquinoline. Coordination complexes of copper, silver, ruthenium, and platinum, which contain aromatic or pseudo-aromatic ligands for the potential intercalation in DNA, have shown promising in vitro activity against T rypanosoma cruzi and Leishmania major promastigotes. In many cases, the ligands in this group of complexes derive from ortho-phenanthroline (Figure 13.7), and the action of these complexes suggests a mechanism comparable to that of anticancer drugs. The increasing resistance of malaria parasites against c hloroquine—the classical remedy for malaria infections—has spurred the development of metal (Fe, Au, Ru, and Pt) complexes based on chloroquine and its derivatives. These complexes circumvent resistance against chloroquine by preventing the conversion of hematin to the stable dimer hemozoin: oxidation “dimerization” heme hematin hemozoin (13.1) Fe2+ Fe3+(OH)–heme Coupling between two hematins takes place through the formation of coordi- native bonds between Fe3+ and carboxylate. Hematin, i.e., Fe3+(OH)-heme, is generated through the oxidation of heme (containing ferrous iron), which is toxic for the malaria parasite. In addition, ferrocenyl-derivatized amino-chlo- roquinoline has been shown to function according to a comparable mechanism. For additional details and references, see
