Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


ferrous iron), which is toxic for the malaria parasite. In addition, ferrocenyl-derivatized amino-chlo- roquinoline has been shown to function according to a comparable mechanism. For additional details and references, see Navarro and Visbal (this volume) 226 D. Rehder et al. Figure 13.7 T hree coordination compounds with promising potential in the treatment of tropical diseases: the copper complex with the dipyridophenazin ligand system is active against trypanosomiasis, whereas the gold complex (based on the chloroquine ligand) and ferroquine are active against malaria parasites. and recent reviews on the development of metallopharmaceuticals to combat malaria (Navarro et al. 2012; Salas et al. 2013). In conclusion, diverse (transition) metal ions can be used to treat parasitic tropical diseases. The metal commonly functions by stabilizing the active component (the specifi c ligand in the coordination compound) and by enhancing the drug’s activity in the sense that the metal ion improves the drug’s lifetime, its target specifi ty, and the effi cacy of binding into the target site. A metal-based drug can also function through the delivery of metal ions to a specifi c site of action, in particular because the metal switches easily between different oxidation states, such as Fe2+/3+ and Au+/3+. Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases Selenium and Mercury Their Interactions and Roles in Living Organisms Tamara García-Barrera Abstract The essential or toxic character of the elements depends not only on their concentration, but also on the chemical form in which they occur. This is the case of arsenobetaine, which has limited biological activity compared to the highly toxic inorganic arsenic. Some elements, however, can counteract the toxic action of others through coopera- tive, competitive, or availability mechanisms. A good example of this is the protective effect of some chemical forms of selenium (Se) against mercury (Hg) toxicity. The range between defi cient and essential dose of selenium is nonetheless narrow, and some chemical forms of selenium are toxic (e.g., selenocystathionine, which is very abundant in Lecythis minor and causes hair loss). Cadmium causes the conversion of xanthine dehydrogenase into xanthine oxidase and abnormalities in urate transporters (hyperuricemia), observed in rats under oxi- dative stress, but cadmium does not have redox properties. This is because cadmium replaces other metals with redox properties. Another example is that toxicity caused by the presence of a rsenic in drinking water in countries like Bangladesh is increased through selenium and zinc
