Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


other metals with redox properties. Another example is that toxicity caused by the presence of a rsenic in drinking water in countries like Bangladesh is increased through selenium and zinc (Zn) defi ciency detected in the soil. Clearly, the essentiality or toxic character of trace elements cannot be considered in isolation, since it can be modulated by their interaction with the particular organism (its genome), with other elements, and with biomolecules, and is dependent on dose and chemical form. Introduction Metals play an essential role in the metabolism of living organisms and, in contrast to metabolites, cannot be produced or consumed through biochemical reactions. For this reason, the study of the metabolism of metals lies at an im- portant interface between chemistry and biology. The availability of elements and their specifi c chemical properties are the promoter forces for the evolution 230 T. García-Barrera of life on Earth (Thiele and Gitlin 2008). This explains the extremophile or- ganisms and variety of organisms that can live under different geochemical conditions. It is important to consider systems biology in relation to the me- tabolism of trace metals, in which the metalome is defi ned as “the distribution of elements, concentration at equilibrium of free metallic ions or free elements in a cellular compartment, cell or organism and refers to the identity and/or quantity of metals/metalloids and their species” . The sys- tematic study of trace metals requires information about how the organisms detect, incorporate, and use these metals (Thiele and Gitlin 2008). Metallic ions are strongly bound to proteins, which overcomes steric problems, elec- trostatics repulsions, and other noncovalent interactions that prevent the as- sociation with monomeric proteins. The importance of metals in biological systems is revealed by their infl uence on more than 50% of the proteins as well as by the fact that metalloproteins represent about 30% of the known proteins . M etalloproteins use the singular properties of metals present in living organ- isms to develop their function, making life possible. In this sense, the ability of eukaryotic cells to detect and interact with metals is performed through three mechanisms: affi nity, allosterism, and accessibility (Waldron and Robinson 2009). Another important factor is the lability of the metal–biomolecule link that promotes the rapid assembly and disassembly of the metal cores as well as rapid association and dissociation of substrates. In this way, metalloproteins consist of kinetically labile and thermodynamically
