Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


that promotes the rapid assembly and disassembly of the metal cores as well as rapid association and dissociation of substrates. In this way, metalloproteins consist of kinetically labile and thermodynamically stable units (Lippard and Berg 1994). In addition, the study of complex interactions in cells, where the viscous medium contains high concentrations of other molecules, which stim- ulate competitive reactions, is mandatory to understand the biological role of metalloproteins in their native environments. Moreover, the regulation of met- als in cells differs considerably from that observed in vitro, since the metal– biomolecule union is completely modulated by biological molecular fi lters . In this way, m etallochaperones guide the metals and distribute them among the different enzymes and biomolecules, thus requiring them, at a precise moment, to develop their function and contribute to the metals traf- fi c, homeostasis, signaling, detoxifi cation, and metabolism (O’Halloran and Culotta 2000). However, elements interact not only with biomolecules but also with other elements or chemical species (García-Barrera et al. 2012). In this sense, some elements or their species can counteract the action of others through coop- erative, competitive, or availability mechanisms. A good example of this is the antagonistic effect of selenium on Hg toxicity, fi rst reported in 1967 in an experiment with rats treated with mercury chloride and selenite (Parizek and Ostadalova 1967). Since living organisms are usually exposed to a com- plex environment in which different elements and their species are present together, these types of interactions complicate even more the panorama of Selenium and Mercury: Interactions and Roles in Organisms 231 “ metallomics.” Thus the metabolism of trace elements cannot be considered in isolation. The Essentiality of Trace Elements The classifi cation of e ssential elements is not absolute because some elements historically considered to be toxic are now classifi ed as essential, such as se- lenium, chromium (Cocho et al. 1998; Maret and Copsey 2012), or tungsten, which was recently added to the list of metals found in biology (Lippard and Berg 1994). In addition, certain elements have a dual character: they are either essential or toxic depending on their concentration and/or chemical form, which in turn depends on their chemical properties (i.e., selenium or chromium). The ligands in bioinorganic chemistry are commonly amino acid side chains or constituents of nucleic acids. The coordination depends critically on the three-dimensional folding of proteins and tertiary structures of nucleic acids
