Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


in bioinorganic chemistry are commonly amino acid side chains or constituents of nucleic acids. The coordination depends critically on the three-dimensional folding of proteins and tertiary structures of nucleic acids (Lippard and Berg 1994). Metals, however, can also be bound to prosthetic groups of metalloproteins (i.e., iron-protoporphyrin IX, magnesium-chloro- phyll), bleomycin, siderophores, coenzymes (i.e., cobalamin-cobalt), and meth- ylcobalamin. The latter can transfer a CH– ion to Hg, Pb, and Sn salts in aque- ous solution, a biomethylation reaction that probably contributes to the toxicity of these elements. Finally, metals can be bound to complex assemblies such as cell membranes, viruses, and intracellular compartments (i.e., ribosome, the mitochondrion and endoplasmatic reticulum) (Lippard and Berg 1994). Another example is the structure defi ned as “z inc fi ngers,” which is a small protein struc- tural motif characterized by the coordination of one or more Zn ions to stabilize the fold. In this way, some elements (e.g., copper, zinc, cadmium, mercury, and silver) coordinate by proteins through a sulfur atom whereas others (e.g., nitrogen or oxygen atoms. Metabolites of arsenic, selenium, and iodine have a metalloid-carbon covalent bond. Other elements (e.g., aluminum, nickel, and iron) coordinate by small organic ligands. Magnesium, vanadium, iron, cobalt, and nickel coordinate by tetrapyrol ligands; calcium, strontium, barium, lan- thanum, and lead form complexes with polysaccharides; and, fi nally, p latinum, r uthenium, c hromium, and n ickel are coordinated by nucleic acids and their constituents (Schaumlöffel et al. 2005). In s elenoproteins (i.e., glutathione per- oxidase, selenoprotein P), s elenium is strongly bound to the organic moiety since selenocysteine is genetically encoded in these selenoproteins, and thus it is an integral protein constituent. Selenium Essentiality and Toxicity Selenium has antioxidant properties and is used in cancer chemoprevention. It is needed to produce triiodothyronine, which is required for healthy brain and 232 T. García-Barrera bone development, normal growth, and thermoregulation. At correct levels, selenium has been found to be necessary for proper immune system function- ing and has been shown to inhibit the progression of human immunodefi ciency virus to acquired inmunodefi ciency syndrome . Selenium can be incorporated into the diet from several food sources (e.g., yeast, garlic, onions). The daily r ecommended selenium dose is 21 and 16 μg per day for men and women, respectively (WHO/FAO/IAEA 1996). Due to the narrow range between benefi cial and toxic levels of selenium, however, both effects can be
