Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and 16 μg per day for men and women, respectively (WHO/FAO/IAEA 1996). Due to the narrow range between benefi cial and toxic levels of selenium, however, both effects can be elicited. Lower levels can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and other degenerative diseases, whereas high intake can induce hair loss, nail brittleness and loss, gastrointestinal disturbances, skin rash, garlic breath, fatigue, irritability, and nervous system abnormalities . There is, however, some controversy related to the upper limits for Se intake, and while some authors do not report any adverse level for an intake of < 800 μg/day for adults, others report selenosis when Se intakes are ≥850 μg/ day . In this context, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has defi ned an intake limit of 1262 μg/day as the reference at which by the European Community has been set at 300 μg/day (Rayman and British 2004; Roman et al. 2014). For a discussion of the recommended dietary allow- ance (RDA) and tolerable upper intake levels (UILs) for selenium, as reported It is also well known that inorganic forms of selenium are more acutely toxic than organic forms, such as Se-enriched yeast (Se-yeast), in which sele- nomethionine (SeMet) is the main species, accounting for 54–74% of total selenium (Rayman and British 2004). The LD50 in rats for Se-yeast has been established by several authors at 37.3 mg/kg, compared with 12.7 mg/kg for sodium selenite, demonstrating that Se-yeast is considerably less acutely toxic than sodium selenite. Histological examination of livers of animals fed Se- yeast revealed up to 50% greater deposition of selenium; however, no cor- responding toxicity (e.g., severe hepatotoxicity, cardiotoxicity, splenomegaly) was found in rats fed selenite at levels of 16 μg/day over an eight-week period (Rayman and British 2004). It has been suggested that organic forms of sele- nium may be more toxic during long-term consumption due to its rapid incor- poration into tissue proteins rather than its excretion. In 2002, the EC Scientifi c Committee on Food expressed concern that organic selenium (e.g., SeMet or Se-yeast) could accumulate in body tissues to toxic levels. However, a large number of studies have shown that Se-yeast can be administered in doses as high as 800 μg per day for lengthy periods without any toxic effects. This lead to the conclusion that there cannot be a continuing rise in tissue selenium and that organic selenium is no more hazardous than
