Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


mino acid metabolism, and gut microfl ora . Nevertheless, the mechanisms responsible for toxic effects of inorganic mercury in organisms are still not known. The organic forms of mercury are especially toxic since alkyl mercury is not well metabolized. Due to its high solubility in lipids, organic mercury bioaccu- mulates and becomes biomagnifi ed through the f ood chain, thus affecting hu- man health. The World Health Organization sets a maximum tolerable weekly intake of 5 μg/kg of body weight for total mercury, of which no more than 3.3 μg/kg should be present as MeHg+. The guideline level for total mercury in drinking water has been established at 1 μg/l (WHO 1993:51). The European 234 T. García-Barrera Commission Regulation 466/2001/EC (amended by Regulation 221/2002/EC) came into effect on April 2002 and sets maximum levels for mercury in bivalve mollusks at 0.5 mg/kg of their wet weight . Interaction of Mercury and Selenium Species through Biological Mechanisms Effects on Toxicity In general, the simultaneous administration of selenite counteracts the negative impacts of exposure to inorganic mercury, particularly in regard to n eurotoxic- ity, fetotoxicity, and c ardiovascular diseases. In humans, a selenite and SeMet- dependent protection against mercury-induced apoptosis and growth inhibition in human cells has been observed. However, other studies reveal that inor- ganic selenium is ineffective in preventing most of the MeHg+-induced brain biochemical alterations and that alone it is also toxic. The Se:Hg molar ratio is very important since mercury in molar excess over selenium is a stronger inducer of m etallothionein levels in some animals (García-Barrera et al. 2012). As stated previously, selenium can counteract the toxicity of methylmer- cury, as demonstrated by an in utero study of mice exposed to MeHg+ and selenium. The group that was given the lowest amount of selenium and highest dose of MeHg+ was mostly adversely affected in neurobehavioral outcome. In rodents, antioxidant nutrients such as dietary selenium and v itamin E may alter MeHg+ reproductive and developmental toxicity (García-Barrera et al. 2012). A great number of studies have been carried out related to the protective infl uence of the selenocompounds against MeHg+ toxicity, especially SeMet. Exposition of MeHg+ in rats resulted in a signifi cant increase in urinary por- phyrins and a decrease in motor activity that was counteracted by SeMet (García-Barrera et al. 2012). Mechanisms The following mechanisms have been proposed to explain the interaction be- tween selenium and
