Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and a decrease in motor activity that was counteracted by SeMet (García-Barrera et al. 2012). Mechanisms The following mechanisms have been proposed to explain the interaction be- tween selenium and mercury: • Selenium provokes the redistribution of mercury to less sensitive organs. • They compete for the same cleavages. • Both combine to form Hg-Se complexes. • Highly toxic Hg species are converted by selenium into less toxic forms. • Selenium prevents the oxidative stress caused by mercury. It is believed that a 1:1 Hg-Se compound of low biological availability and activity is formed inside cells, and that cell damage is quite low, even in the presence of very high Hg concentrations, if both elements are present in an Selenium and Mercury: Interactions and Roles in Organisms 235 equimolecular ratio. This has been stated in studies with marine mammals and humans exposed to high levels of inorganic mercury. In 1978, experiments with marine organisms suggested a direct Hg-Se linkage, and the 1:1 molar ra- tio of mercury and selenium increment holds true in several species, including humans (García-Barrera et al. 2012). A tissue with a Se:Hg molar ratio higher than 1 is suggested as a threshold for the protective action against Hg toxicity. The possibility that Hg-Se formation is responsible for the 1:1 molar ratio is supported by experiments which have shown that (a) enzimatically digested liver and plasma fractions with a 1:1 molar ratio release mercury and selenium in insoluble forms and (b) binding to the same plasma protein is preceded with the conversion of selenite to H Se in red blood cells (García-Barrera et al. 2012). Selenium can also affect the activities of enzymes cleaving the C-Hg bond in organic mercury compounds. In this way, experiments with rats show an enhancement of PMA (phorbol myristate acetate) cleavage enzymes in liver when sodium selenite is supplemented in drinking water. It has also been ob- served that MeHg+ exposure exerts an inhibitory effect on paronaxe 1 activity in humans that can be counteracted by selenium. Other hypotheses are that selenium can promote a redistribution of mercury from more sensitive organs (kidney, central nervous system) to less sensitive ones (muscle), that selenium competes for the same receptors, that complexes such as tiemannite or Se- Hg-S are formed, and that MeHg+ conversion into less toxic forms is promoted and oxidative damage prevented. Yang et al. (2002) propose that selenium is involved in
