Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


tiemannite or Se- Hg-S are formed, and that MeHg+ conversion into less toxic forms is promoted and oxidative damage prevented. Yang et al. (2002) propose that selenium is involved in the demethylation of MeHg+ in the liver, which results in the for- mation of inorganic and less toxic Hg compounds (see also García-Barrera et al. 2012). Biochemical Interactions The ability of different Se compounds and selenium incorporated in vivo into liver tissue (biological selenium) to form an Hg-Se compound varies and in- creases in the following order: biological Se < SeMet < selenite. The protective effect of the Se compounds against mercury toxicity might, therefore, follow the same order. Mercury ions can react with thiols (–SH) and selenols (–SeH), which constitute a part of cysteine and selenocysteine. As a consequence, they can be incorporated to proteins, prosthetic groups of enzymes, and peptides. Mercury ions can also react with selenides (Se2–) and, with hydrogen selenide, they can form complexes together with glutathione that can be fi nally bound to selenoprotein P (García-Barrera et al. 2012). Similar complexes can be formed in other cells with active Se metabolism or during degradation of metal-bonded proteins and metallo(selenoproteins) in lysosomes (biomineralization processes), representing the last step of de- toxifi cation. A direct interaction between MeHg+ and the selenol group of g lu- tathione peroxidase has also been reported. However, to explain the reduced activity of the enzyme after MeHg+ exposure, another molecular mechanism 236 T. García-Barrera has been proposed: cultured cells showed that MeHg+ induced a “Se-defi cient- like” condition, which affected the synthesis of glutathione peroxidase thought to be a posttranscriptional effect (García-Barrera et al. 2012). Mercury vapor shows similar behavior to MeHg+ in relation to its ability to penetrate cell membranes, where it is oxidized in the biological active form (Hg2+) by catalase. Such in situ-generated ions can react with endogenously generated highly reactive Se metabolites, like HSe–, and consequently a part of the selenium is unavailable for selenoprotein synthesis. Mercury can also pro- voke the increase of free radicals that induce lipid, protein, and DNA oxidation (García-Barrera et al. 2012). Other Interactions Although the Hg-Se interaction has been widely studied, there are other well- known interactions and other less studied but suffi ciently confi rmed. One well- studied element is arsenic, which can interact in an antagonistic fashion with zinc and phosphorous and synergistically with cadmium. Likewise, it has been demonstrated
