Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


suffi ciently confi rmed. One well- studied element is arsenic, which can interact in an antagonistic fashion with zinc and phosphorous and synergistically with cadmium. Likewise, it has been demonstrated in rats that zinc prevents As-induced tissue oxidative stress (Modi et al. 2006), while there is evidence in bacterial systems of arsenic in macro- molecules that normally contain phosphorous . Otherwise, arsenic and cadmium provoke a more pronounced renal toxicity than exposure to each of the agents alone; they induce lipid peroxidation, expression of gluta- thione and metallothionein, and redistribution of essential elements. Zinc, on the other hand, antagonizes testicular damage induced in mice through low doses of mercury , the teratogenic and embryophatic effects , and replaces mercury in metallothionein . In rats, zinc also counteracts the hepathotoxicity of cad- mium , reduces the Cd-induced metallothionein synthe- sis and alterations in lipid metabolism (Rogalska et al. 2009), and, in mice, protects against Cd effects on pre-implantation of embryos . Analytical Strategies to Study Interactions between Elements During the last decade, various “-omics” technologies have provided massive information-generating methods to allow comprehensive description of nearly all components within the cell. G enomics has revealed the characteristics of the information contained in the cellular core, which determines cell function and behavior; transcriptomics allows gene expression to be examined; and pro- teomics analyzes protein synthesis and cell signaling. Nicholson et al. (1999) defi ned m etabonomics as “the quantitative measurement of the dynamic multi- parametric metabolic response of living systems to pathophysiological stimuli Selenium and Mercury: Interactions and Roles in Organisms 237 or genetic modifi cation.” Metabolomics can also be defi ned as the measure- ment of all the metabolites in a specifi ed biological sample . Whereas metabonomics provides a means for understanding the variation in low molecular mass metabolites in complex multicellular organisms and their response to change, the “-omics” sciences are concerned with cellular macro- molecules. To understand a cell, tissue, or living organism behavior, it is also necessary to consider low molecular mass molecules since they represent the last action mechanism of the organisms. Although metabolomics and metabo- nomics are the most common strategies for metabolomic analysis, other impor- tant approaches (Ogra and Annan 2012) include: • Metabolite profi ling: the identifi cation and quantifi cation of a selected number of pre-defi ned metabolites, generally related to a specifi c meta- bolic pathway. • Metabolic fi ngerprinting: high
