Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


profi ling: the identifi cation and quantifi cation of a selected number of pre-defi ned metabolites, generally related to a specifi c meta- bolic pathway. • Metabolic fi ngerprinting: high throughput, rapid, global analysis of samples to provide sample classifi cation, usually without quantifi ca- tion and metabolic identifi cation. • Metabolite target analysis: qualitative and quantitative analysis of one or few metabolites related to a specifi c metabolic reaction. • Metabolite footprinting: the study of metabolites in extracellular fl uids. • Metal-metabolomics: the study of metal or metalloid containing me- tabolites (i.e., selenometabolomics). • Environmental metabolomics: the comprehensive metabolome analy- sis of living organisms for the characterization of their interactions with the habitat (see Maret et al., this volume). As discussed earlier, it is necessary to remember that approximately one-third of all proteins require the presence of metals as cofactors to develop their func- tion . These metals are responsible for catalytic proper- ties or structure of proteins, and their presence in molecules is determined in many cases by the genome . M etallomics considers that the identifi cation of a metal cofactor into a protein can greatly assist its func- tional assignment and help place it in the context of known cellular pathways (González-Fernández et al. 2008). Since chemical species are the specifi c forms of an element defi ned to isotopic composition, electronic or oxidation state, and/or complex or molecular structure , the defi n- ing line between metallomics, metal metabolomics, and chemical speciation is very thin. In general, g enomics can explain “what could happen” in living organ- isms; t ranscriptomics can address “what seems to happen”; proteomics looks at “what is provoked so that it does happen”; and metabolomics can explain “what happened in the past and what is happening at the moment.” Although metabolomics can be very instrumental in understanding biological systems, other “-omics” are also useful and should be used as well. Under such scenario, 238 T. García-Barrera metals play essential roles due to their interaction with proteins, metabolites, and other biomolecules (for further discussion, see Maret et al., this volume). Acknowledgments This work was supported by the project CTM2012-38720-C03-01 from the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, and by projects P08-FQM-3554 and P12- FQM-442 from the Regional Ministry of Economy, Innovation, Science and Employ- ment (Andalusian Government, Spain). New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern Jozef M. Pacyna, Kyrre Sundseth, and Elisabeth
