Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


P12- FQM-442 from the Regional Ministry of Economy, Innovation, Science and Employ- ment (Andalusian Government, Spain). New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern Jozef M. Pacyna, Kyrre Sundseth, and Elisabeth G. Pacyna Abstract This chapter discusses the occurrence, material fl ows, technical applications of and pol- lution by platinum (Pt), palladium (Pd), thallium (Tl), rare earth elements (REEs), g old (Au), silver (Ag), and a ntimony (Sb), all of which are essential for global economic growth. Modern technology relies on these chemicals for the production of various in- dustrial goods. However, their use releases pollutants into the environment, thus posing a threat to human health. The impacts of these chemicals on human health are assessed in the context of their linkage to infectious diseases. The consequent environmental damage and political and economic implications of using these chemicals are also discussed. cost-effective approaches are needed in mining and production processes. It is sug- gested that r ecycling and waste management can be improved signifi cantly in many regions of the world to lessen the environmental impact of using these metals while contributing to a better economic situation. Information on the potential impacts that REEs and technologies using these metals have on infectious diseases is largely missing in the literature. This information gap needs to be closed through forthcoming research. Introduction Waste production, as measured by emission levels of pollutants to the atmo- sphere, impacts aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems and needs to be minimized, or even avoided, during the production of industrial goods. To this end, new innovative technologies have been designed to address this problem; their im- plementation, however, is still accompanied by emissions of various pollutants to the environment. This is due primarily to the presence of various chemicals as impurities of raw materials that are used in the production process (i.e., by-product emissions) or to the application of chemicals used to improve the operation of various technologies. Emissions of several trace metals have been 240 J. M. Pacyna et al. well studied over the last three to four decades (e.g., Nriagu and Pacyna 1988; Pacyna and Pacyna 2001; UNEP 2013). In this chapter, we review information on the application of select trace met- als in new technologies to produce industrial goods and the resulting environ- mental emissions of these metals. High technology and environmental applica- tions of several metals have grown dramatically in diversity and importance over the past
