Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


industrial goods and the resulting environ- mental emissions of these metals. High technology and environmental applica- tions of several metals have grown dramatically in diversity and importance over the past four decades. These applications, however, can have an adverse Our primary focus is to analyze the use and environmental emissions of trace metals with scientifi cally documented harmful effects on the environ- ment and human health. Wherever heavy metals might affect infectious dis- ease, it is of paramount importance to reduce their release into the environ- ment. Once the most dangerous species, particle sizes, and ways of ingestion are identifi ed, human exposure must be limited. To estimate this exposure and recognize its sources, we provide an overview of overall occurrence, material fl ows, technical applications of and pollution by platinum, palladium, thallium, rare earth elements, gold, silver, and antimony. Throughout, these metals will be referred to as “metals of concern.” Finally, we present an approach that analyzes the costs and benefi ts of reducing the emissions of these metals to the environment. Human Health Impacts Trace metal toxicology is one of the broadest, rapidly growing fi elds in toxi- cology. Metals have served as one of the earliest medicines as well as poisons throughout human history (e.g., Chang 1996). A great number of studies have been conducted to assess the impact of metals in terms of (a) carcinogenesis and genotoxicity, (b) neurotoxicology, (c) renal toxicology, and (d) reproduc- tive and developmental toxicology. In addition, research has been carried out on bioresponses and reactivities to metal toxicity, immunomodulation by met- als, and the effects of metals on other organ systems. Over the last two decades, clinical aspects of metal toxicity as well as environmental and human risk as- sessments have been reported (see, e.g., Chang 1996). Each metal has a unique mechanism of action with regard to its impact on of concern. Pure platinum is relatively nontoxic; however, Pt salts give rise to allergic symptoms, including irritation (after short-term exposure) and hypersensitiv- ity of the skin, d ermatitis, p latinosis, and a sthma (a result of long-term ex- posure). Platinum compounds can also produce toxic effects, including cu- mulative nephrotoxicity and sometimes neurotoxicity (Van der Voet and de Wolff 1996). Palladium, similar to platinum, is one of 15 metals that can cause New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern 241 allergic contact dermatitis, a form of delayed hypersensitivity reaction of
