Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Palladium, similar to platinum, is one of 15 metals that can cause New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern 241 allergic contact dermatitis, a form of delayed hypersensitivity reaction of the skin (Kimber and Basketter 1996). T hallium and its compounds are extremely toxic, and numerous cases of fatal Tl p oisoning have been reported (Van der Voet and de Wolff 1996). Large doses of Tl compounds cause acute gastrointestinal symptoms with neurologi- cal effects that manifest hours to days after exposure. These symptoms com- prise a demyelinating polyneuropathia and may result in mental disturbances (e.g., psychosis, paranoia, and hallucinations). Occasionally, Tl poisoning causes kidney and liver damage. In addition, thallium is a suspected human carcinogen. Rare earth elements are a set of 17 chemical elements in the periodic table: the 15 lanthanides plus s candium and y ttrium. Scandium and yttrium are con- sidered REEs because they tend to occur in the same ore deposits as the lan- thanides and exhibit similar chemical properties. Physical growth and develop- ment, immune system function, and intelligence can be affected when REEs been devised to measure children’s environmental exposure to REEs. Elemental gold is nontoxic and nonirritating when ingested. Soluble com- pounds (Au salts) such as Au chloride are, however, toxic to both the liver and kidneys. Common Au cyanide salts (e.g., potassium Au cyanide) are toxic by virtue of both their cyanide and Au content. Rare cases have been reported (Wu et al. 2001) of lethal Au poisoning from potassium Au cyanide. G old toxicity can be ameliorated through chelation therapy that uses an agent such as dimer- caprol. Gold contact allergies affect mostly women. In fact, in 2001, gold was voted the “Allergen of the Year” by the American Contact Dermatitis Society.1 is still under debate. Most Ag salts are toxic. In large doses, Ag compounds can be absorbed into the circulatory system, where they become deposited in various body tissues, leading to blue-grayish pigmentation of skin (e.g., Zheng 1996). The eyes can also be affected. Ongoing research is currently search- ing for information on the toxic effects of n anosilver (e.g., the release of Ag from nanoparticle containing dressing), since nanosilver emissions to the atmo- sphere have become a new challenge in trace metal studies . Antimony and most of its compounds are toxic. The effects of Sb poison- ing are similar to arsenic (As) poisoning, although the toxicity
