Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


new challenge in trace metal studies . Antimony and most of its compounds are toxic. The effects of Sb poison- ing are similar to arsenic (As) poisoning, although the toxicity of antimony is by far lower than that of arsenic. Fatalities from Sb poisoning are rare, but acute systematic exposure to Sb compounds causes hair and weight loss as well as dry scaly skin. Damage to the heart, liver, and kidneys can occur, and death from myocardial failure may follow. The systemic toxicity of trivalent Sb compounds is signifi cantly less than pentavalent Sb compounds, and this fact is quite important when the use of Sb compounds is considered. A similar toxicity profi le is observed for As compounds. (accessed October 9, 2014) 242 J. M. Pacyna et al. In Table 17.2, Ackland et al. (this volume) summarize the effects of the above-mentioned trace metals of concern on the immune system and host defenses against infection, as well as their direct antimicrobial properties. However, information on potential impacts of REEs and technologies using these metals on infectious diseases is largely missing from the literature. This gap must be addressed by future research efforts. Major Applications Several industrial sectors use metals of concern throughout production. For many applications, these metals are critical resources that enable modern tech- nologies. As such, ensuring an adequate supply of these metals has become a matter of economics as well as environmental and political concern. Because they are essential for a large and expanding array of high-technology applica- tions, long-term shortage would force signifi cant changes in societal develop- ment in various regions of the world. Platinum and Platinum Group Metals P latinum and Pt group metals (PGMs) are critical components for various tech- nologies used in the manufacture of industrial catalysts, automobile catalysts, electronics, glass products, jewelry, dentistry and other applications, including pharmaceutical production. Of the 245 tonnes of platinum sold in 2010, it is es- timated that vehicle emission control devices and jewelry accounted for prima- ry usage: 113 tonnes (46%) and 76 tonnes (31%), respectively . Since the early nineteenth century, Pt powder has been used to catalyze the ignition of hydrogen. In automobiles, its use in catalytic converters allows the complete combustion of low concentrations of unburned hydrocarbons from the exhaust into carbon dioxide and water vapor. In the petroleum industry, platinum is used especially in the catalytic reforming of naphthalenes into
