Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


(EU-25, including Norway and Switzerland) in 2004 are depicted, based on an analysis by Saurat and Bringezu (2008). 244 J. M. Pacyna et al. created (particularly by secondary production of PGMs), and the recycling rate. This information provides a basis for discussing options to reduce de- mand for primary PGMs. Substance fl ow analysis can also be used to discuss the fl ow of metals within a given sector. An assessment of Pd, Au, and Ag fl ows during the preprocessing of waste from electrical and electronic equipment has been prepared by Chancerel et al. (2009). Figure 15.2 shows the fl ows of these metals during preprocessing of 1 tonne of input in waste electrical and electronic equipment. Thallium T hallium and its compounds are used mainly in optics, electronics, high- temperature superconductivity, and various medical applications. Because they are harder than other common infrared optics, Tl compounds have been used as infrared optical material. In addition, Tl compounds transmit at signifi cantly longer wavelengths. Thallium is also used to produce high-density glasses. The electrical conductivity of some Tl compounds changes with exposure to infrared light. As a result, Tl compounds are used to produce photoresistors. They are also used to improve the effi ciency of sodium iodine (NaI(Tl)) crystals in scintillation detectors. Finally, one of the most interesting applications of thallium is in the development of high-temperature superconducting materials for applications such as magnetic resonance imaging, storage of magnetic energy, magnetic propulsion, and electric power generation and transmission. Rare Earth Elements Since 1985, production of REEs has grown rapidly to meet the demand created by new and important applications (see Table 15.1). This sharp increase has been met by China (Figure 15.3), which currently produces over 95% of the world’s REE supply, mostly in Inner Mongolia, even though it has only 37% of proven reserves. By 2012, these fi gures were reported by Bradsher (2010) to have decreased to 90% (production rate) and 23% (proven reserves). The diverse nuclear, metallurgical, chemical, catalytic, electrical, magnetic, and optical properties of the REEs have led to a variety of applications: from everyday usage (e.g., lighter fl ints, glass polishing), to high-technology (e.g., phosphorus, lasers, magnets, batteries, magnetic refrigeration) and futuristic applications (high-temperature superconductivity, safe storage and transport of hydrogen for a post-hydrogen economy) . As can be seen from Table 15.1, many applications of REEs are character- ized by high specifi city.
