Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Asia Minor as of ca. BC 600.3 Major industrial applications include the use of gold in toners to shift the color of prints or to increase their stability in photog- raphy. In addition, because it refl ects electromagnetic radiation (e.g., infrared and visible light as well as radio waves) well, gold is used for the protective coatings on many artifi cial satellites, in infrared protective faceplates in ther- mal protection suits and astronaut helmets, as well as in electronic warfare (accessed October 9, 2014) (accessed October 9, 2014) )tk( noitcudorP 40 China 20 USA Other 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 Monazite-placer Mountain pass Chinese ? era era era Figure 15.3 G lobal production of rare earth elements (1 kt = 106 kg) from 1950 to 2000 . 248 J. M. Pacyna et al. aircraft. Due to its effectivity in heat shielding, it can be used in automobiles; McLaren Racing Limited, for example, uses a Au foil in the engine compart- ment of its F1 model. Since it can be manufactured so thin that it appears transparent, gold is also used in the design of some aircraft cockpit windows; passing electricity through it permits de-icing or anti-icing. Finally, gold is used in electronics. Since it is a very effective conductor for electricity, it has been used in the electrical wiring of various high-energy applications. Silver In the Middle Ages, silver and Ag salts were used primarily to produce a strong clear yellow pigment in early stained glass. In the parish church of Le Mesnil- Villeman, Manche, France, evidence of the Ag stain technique is traceable back to 1313 . Later, silver was used in currency coins, ornaments, and jewelry. More recently, silver has been used in various industrial applications: in electrical contacts and conductors, mirrors, and catalysis of chemical reac- tions. Some of these electrical and electronic products employ silver because of its superior conductivity (e.g., in cables and wires) and to ensure superior re- fl ectivity of visible light (e.g., mirror production). Silver compounds are used in photographic fi lm as well as in disinfectants, microbiocides, and antibiotics. Control rods of nuclear reactors are routinely made using the Ag 0In Cd al- 8 15 5 loy; this permits effi cient joining of high-absorption cross sections for thermic neutrons (contributions Ag 50 barn, Cd 130 barn, In 10 barn). It also ensures stability during activation, corrosion, and temperature fl uctuations:
