Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


0.01 2.7E8 780 Middle cont. crust 1.1 2.4E8 Oceanic crust 0.083 Lower cont. crust 5.3E8 2.6E8 2.3 2.4 2.7 0.010 Mantle 2.5E10 0.16 Error > 100% Flows: Gg Ag / yr 75 - 100% Stocks: Gg Ag Core 50 - 75% 25 - 50% : Change in net stock 2.9E11 0 - 25% No estimate Figure 15.4 E arth’s global cycle of s ilver (from Rauch and Pacyna 2009, reprinted with permission from John Wiley and Sons). Trioxide of antimony is used to make fl ame-proofi ng compounds and products. These nonmetallic uses include plastic additives in the production of stabilizers, catalysts, ceramics and glass production, and pigment produc- tion (Butterman and Carlin, Jr. 2004). Increasingly, antimony is being used in microelectronic applications, where it is being used by the semiconductor industry as a dopant in the production of diodes, infrared detectors, and other devices. Environmental Impacts of Production and Application Ideally, t he application of metals of concern in new technologies should im- prove the effi ciency of industrial production without damaging the environ- ment. However, industrial processes (i.e., applications related to both primary and secondary production: m ining, smelting, recycling) continue to contami- nate the environment with metals and other pollutants (e.g., CO , sulfur and nitrogen oxides). For example, in 2004, SO emissions associated with the 250 J. M. Pacyna et al. production of P GMs used in Europe reached 3% of the total direct SO emis- sions for the EU-15 in 2003. At the same time, reduction of SO emissions in Europe resulted in the need to provide sulfur supplementation of soils via fertilizers. The application of new technologies that utilize metals of concern can, how- ever, benefi t the environment by reducing emissions of some contaminants. An obvious example is the reduction of automobile emissions of various gaseous pollutants that was achieved through PGM catalysts, as well as the application of these catalysts in petrochemical industry. In the following sections, we review information on environmental damage and benefi ts that have resulted from the application of metals of concern. Environmental Damage Caused by the Production Sources of metals of concern—particularly REEs and PGMs—are placer sand deposits or side elements from ores of other major metals (e.g., zinc, copper, nickel, and lead). Ore mining, refi ning, and smelting can have serious environ- mental consequences if not properly managed. Most mining operations occur in underground mines and
