Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


(e.g., zinc, copper, nickel, and lead). Ore mining, refi ning, and smelting can have serious environ- mental consequences if not properly managed. Most mining operations occur in underground mines and affect the environment well beyond the immediate area of the extraction site (due, in particular, to sulfur emissions and deposition through acid rain). To reduce aboveground pollution and costs, there is a ten- dency to sort lumps of ore underground in the mine galleries using automated X-ray analytical techniques. For open pit mines, pollution via dust from car- rier ores that are released during digging and milling poses a major concern. Gold, for example, occasionally mined as a trace constituent of arsenopyrit (FeSAs), leads to As exposure, as exemplifi ed around the Kinross Paracatu mine in Brazil. Two major technological processes are involved in nonferrous metallurgy. The fi rst is the pyrometallurgical process, where roasting is used to split sulfur from the metals in the ores. This high-temperature process is a known source of emissions of various pollutants, including metals of concern to the atmo- sphere. The second is based on the hydrometallurgical process: ore is dissolved in acid and digested; elements are then differentially precipitated or separated using ion chromatographic techniques, which means that discharges of pollut- ants to aquatic ecosystems can be expected. Secondary metal production involves waste recycling that contains various pollutants, including metals of concern. This process usually involves high temperatures, and emissions of contaminants to the atmosphere are very dif- fi cult to avoid. Compared to s econdary production technologies, primary metal production technologies are much better controlled with respect to the pollut- ant emissions. Not all wastes are recycled, however. Signifi cant quantities of metals depos- ited in wastes can be found in tailing and landfi lls. This poses a serious problem related to the contamination of terrestrial ecosystems by various contaminants. New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern 251 Quantifi cation of emissions from metals of concern to the atmosphere, land, and water has been approached only on a limited scale. This information is largely missing from the literature, particularly for emissions on scales larger than local scale (i.e., on national, continental, or global scales). Nriagu and Pacyna (1988) published the fi rst worldwide inventory of antimony, thallium, and 14 other trace elements to air, water, and land. It was estimated that at least one-quarter of all the a ntimony and t hallium
