Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


worldwide inventory of antimony, thallium, and 14 other trace elements to air, water, and land. It was estimated that at least one-quarter of all the a ntimony and t hallium produced and used annually at the end of the 1980s ended up as environmental contaminants. Subsequent to this inventory, the methodology for assessing the charge of metals to the environment, as a result of their production and uses, has improved signifi cantly. Current methodology is based on the application of substance (material) fl ow analysis and life cycle assessment. Several research groups have been formed to perform analyses. For example, the Stocks and Flows been involved in evaluating current and historical fl ows of specifi c techno- logically important materials, determining available stocks in different types of reservoirs and the fl ows among the reservoirs, developing scenarios of pos- sible metal use in the future, and assessing metal supply and demand as well as emissions to the atmosphere. Figure 15.5 depicts the fl ow of metals during these processes and subsequent release to the environment. S ilver was one of the metals analyzed by the STAF program, as shown in Figure 15.4 (Rauch and Pacyna 2009). Earth and its orbital bodies constitute the system boundary, and all fl ows larger than 1 Mg/yr between reservoirs were explicitly quantifi ed. Mass balance of atmospheric, water, and biomass reservoirs—assuming no net accumulation due to high turnover rates—was ap- plied to estimate fl ow magnitudes. Estimated uncertainties are absolute errors Human and environmental exposure Environmental compartments (air, water, and soil) Fate Initial Manufacturing Use / Waste production / assembling consumption management Recycling Remanufacturing Reuse Ore Final storage extraction Raw material supply Product or material life cycle Figure 15.5 A fl ow scheme of the releases of pollutants to the environment during various production processes. 252 J. M. Pacyna et al. calculated by propagation of the estimated or standard errors associated with the source data. The entire exercise provides a diagrammatic representation of Earth’s global metal cycles, combining the endogenic reservoirs of the core, mantle, and consolidated crust, the natural exogenic cycles of the pedosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere, the anthropogenic exogenic reservoirs from pro- duction to waste management, and Earth’s atmosphere and orbit. Metals (metal groups) of concern impact the environment in different ways that are related to variations in production/use processes used in various coun- tries. For P GM metals, the total material
