Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


(metal groups) of concern impact the environment in different ways that are related to variations in production/use processes used in various coun- tries. For P GM metals, the total material requirement (TMR), which represents the resource-intensive side of PGM production, is higher for South Africa (over 628,000 tonnes per 1 tonne of extracted PGMs; Saurat and Bringezu 2008) than for Russia. TMR includes wastes from precious metal m ining as well as material used to generate the electricity used in mining. Thus, the TMR factor refl ects CO emissions: the higher the TMR factor, the higher the CO emis- 2 2 sions. In general, the production of selected metals of concern (e.g., PMGs and gold) requires very high amounts of primary energy, estimated at between 200,000 and 300,000 MJ/kg . Thus, large amounts of greenhouse gas emissions can be expected when this primary energy is produced. A particular hazard related to the production of REEs is mildly radioactive slurry tailings, resulting from the common occurrence of thorium and u ranium in the REE ores. However, other resources, such as coal, also contain these radioactive chemicals, resulting in emission of various radioisotopes during the coal combustion for electricity production (needed to produce REEs). In addition, toxic acids are required during the refi ning process of REEs. Improper handling of these substances may result in signifi cant environmental contamination. Negative Implications Related to Usage Unfortunately, various applications that use metals of concern negatively im- pact the environment. As illustrated in Figure 15.5, most of these impacts relate to the disposal of wastes containing these metals. E-wastes (i.e., wastes from electrical and electronic equipment) constitute one important type of waste (e.g., Robinson 2009) and often contain REEs and PMGs compounds, among other trace elements. Concentrations of environmental contaminants found in E-wastes depend on the type of item that is discarded and the point in time when that item was produced. E-waste composition is spatially and temporally heterogeneous. China receives some 70% of all exported E-waste (Liu et al. 2006); signifi cant quantities are also exported to India, Pakistan, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Ghana , and possibly to Brazil and Mexico. Most E-waste currently ends up in landfi lls . From dumpsites where processed or unprocessed E-waste is deposited, E-waste New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern 253 contaminants can enter aquatic systems via leaching. Similarly, following hy- drometallurgical processes, disposal of
