Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


where processed or unprocessed E-waste is deposited, E-waste New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern 253 contaminants can enter aquatic systems via leaching. Similarly, following hy- drometallurgical processes, disposal of acid into waters or onto soils and the dissolution or settling of airborne pollutants can contaminate aquatic systems. E-waste contaminants are also dispersed into the air via dust, thus providing a major exposure pathway for humans through ingestion, inhalation, and skin absorption. Atmospheric emissions also occur through metal use in nanotech- nology. Good examples are emissions of n anosilver (e.g., Walser et al. 2013) from various applications of nanoparticles in antibacterial materials, antistatic materials, cryogenic superconducting materials and biosensor materials (e.g., Zhang et al. 2006a), and emissions of nanoplatinum and nanopalladium from applications in necessary catalysts for commercially important reactions (e.g., Pauporte et al. 2006). Benefi cial Implications for the Environment Major environmental benefi ts from various applications of metals of concern begin with the employment of high technologies to produce energy and various industrial and agriculture goods. The application of P GMs in catalytic con- vertors for the automobile industry has reduced emissions of nitrogen oxides (NO ) and NMVOCs (nonmethane volatile organic compounds), although x CO and SO emissions increase slightly during this process due to higher fuel 2 2 consumption. Still, the use of car catalysts leads to a signifi cant overall reduc- tion of emissions from acidifying and eutrophication agents, whereas the effect on global warming is less relevant (Saurat and Bringezu 2008). The problem, though, shifts from environmental impacts discussed above to impacts that largely affect Earth’s surface through the increase in resource extraction and mining wastes. In this context, the overall environmental effect related to the application of PGMs depends on their mode of production. Benefi cial effects will be larger if the PGMs are produced from r ecycling (i.e., through second- ary production). However, since recycling rates are still relatively low in many sectors (e.g., electronics, production of catalytic convertors), p rimary produc- tion is needed for the foreseeable future. PGMs are used as catalyzers not only in the automobile industry but also in other industrial sectors (e.g., in electric power plants, refi neries, and the chemical industry) to lower the emissions of NMVOCs and other pollutants. Particularly important is the application of catalyzers in the electricity and heat production sectors, where the application of PGMs to reduce emissions of NO x is
