Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


NMVOCs and other pollutants. Particularly important is the application of catalyzers in the electricity and heat production sectors, where the application of PGMs to reduce emissions of NO x is currently regarded as the most modern technology. Catalytic properties of silver make it ideal to use as a catalyst in oxidation reactions in the chemical industry, where it is used, for example, to produce formaldehyde from methanol. This method of formaldehyde production is re- garded as being extremely environmental friendly. 254 J. M. Pacyna et al. Political and Economic Implications The special properties of the metals of concern that we have described explain why these metals are essential for hundreds of applications. Yet despite their necessity, most countries rely on imports to meet their production needs for two reasons: (a) most of the global supply originates from a few exploitable ore deposits and (b) most of the metals are diffi cult to extract in an economical- ly viable and environmentally sound manner. Due to relatively lower exploita- tion costs (particularly in terms of labor and regulatory costs) and the transfer of processing technology from Europe and North America to Asia over the last few decades, China has emerged as the major producer of many of these met- als . This reality (i.e., having a single major provider on a global level) makes geopolitics and trade policies very important factors in the determination of global supply and market price. Additional factors infl uence market price as well: scarcity, supply-demand balance, stocks and rate of use, market disruptions, market expectations, and the level of speculative versus nonspeculative investments. From 1990–2007, for example, as the observed price of R EEs declined, China raised restrictions on exports, which caused prices to increase substantially as of 2007; these restrictions failed in 2012 after threats were made that would have shifted global production (e.g., Haxel et al. 2002; Tse 2011). Metals of concern are widely used to improve human well-being. Their ap- plication is critical in many areas of technology, transport, and defense systems, and, as such, they constitute an important part of the industrial economy. At the same time, the increasing dependency on these metals is a matter of great concern for scientists and policy makers, as future market scarcity becomes likely. New technologies and fast-growing products (e.g., cell phones, com- puters, electric motors for cars) use many trace metals of concern. The growth of
