Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


makers, as future market scarcity becomes likely. New technologies and fast-growing products (e.g., cell phones, com- puters, electric motors for cars) use many trace metals of concern. The growth of world economies—particularly material-intensive emerging economies and heavily populated developing countries—will drive future demand for these metals. This may lead to a pressure on availability as well as on the value chain of the product, including waste-handling systems. In addition, due to REE use in many defense systems (e.g., some metals are essential for precision-guided missiles, smart bombs, aircrafts, and magnets in defense weapon systems), availability affects national vulnerability. Final Comments Metals of concern are essential for global economic growth. However, many of these metals are diffi cult to extract in an economically viable and environmen- tally sound manner. This contradiction needs to be taken into account when the further use of these metals is considered in new modern technologies. In addi- tion, the recycling of waste is a very important issue that must be addressed. New Technologies Using Trace Metals of Concern 255 New recycling technologies have been developed that enable better extraction of metals, particularly REEs and PGMs. However, effective recycling has yet to be implemented: in Japan alone, it is estimated that 300,000 tonnes of REEs are currently stored in unused electronics . The “true value” of metals, including social and environmental costs and benefi ts, need to be taken into account when new metals are considered for ap- plication. Potential revenues from the entire value chains need to be compared holistically with cost or benefi ts, assessed according to a life-cycle perspective. To assist analysis, monetary valuation methods need to be employed. Research on mercury provides an example of costs and benefi t analysis performance: investment and operational costs to reduce Hg emissions from anthropogenic sources, including the Hg uses, have been compared to damage costs that re- sulted from Hg pollution of the environment and subsequent human health im- pacts . It would be worth exploring whether procedures from the Hg costs and benefi ts analysis could be modifi ed and used to analyze metals of concern. Future research should fi nd ways to improve the production and use of metals of concern that makes sense, both in economic and environmentally friendly terms. More effi cient, cost-effective approaches are needed to mine and produce metals, so that air, water, and soil emissions generated during these processes
