Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


both in economic and environmentally friendly terms. More effi cient, cost-effective approaches are needed to mine and produce metals, so that air, water, and soil emissions generated during these processes can be reduced. In addition, energy requirements for primary production constitute a major concern. We need to improve energy effi ciency and increase the use of renewable energy sources to reduce environmental im- pacts related to the use of energy in metal production. Recycling and waste management can be improved signifi cantly in many regions of the world. This would contribute to a better economy while lower- ing the environmental impacts of metal’s production and use. Recycling rates are increasing but further improvement is needed. System optimization, in- The Promise of Nanometals Reducing Infection and Increasing Biocompatibility Mian Wang, Wenwen Liu, and Thomas J. Webster Abstract Conventional metals (e.g., titanium, cobalt-chromium alloys, stainless steel, etc., with micron particulates or micron grain sizes) have a long history of successful use in the body despite the fact that they are non-biodegradable (i.e., they persist in the body for the rest of a patient’s lifetime). This could cause a continual infl ammatory response and such chemistries become separated in particulate form from the bulk metal during use. Recently, research groups have introduced a new classifi cation of metals with nanoscale particulate or grain sizes to decrease traditional metal toxicity, eliminate infection with- out using antibiotics, reduce infl ammation, kill cancer cells, and increase tissue growth. Findings are presented with a mechanistic understanding of how cells recognize and respond favorably to nanomaterials. In contrast to the damage that heavy metals can cause in the body, current innovative approaches use heavy metals formulated at the nanoscale to fi ght health problems. This chapter summarizes the diffi culties associated with the use of metals in the body and discusses how they can potentially be overcome through the use of metallic nanomaterials. Toxicity of Metals Due to their non-biodegradable nature, metal compounds and metal ions have been heavily scrutinized for t oxicity in the biomaterial science community. Metals have, however, been widely used successfully for decades in d ental, o rthopedic, and o ther m edical device applications. In particular, their great strength, ductility, and durability provide excellent properties as bone substi- tutes. Despite their widespread use in orthopedics, metal ions released from bone biomaterials do possess toxicity and induce some clinical complications. 258 M. Wang et
