Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


excellent properties as bone substi- tutes. Despite their widespread use in orthopedics, metal ions released from bone biomaterials do possess toxicity and induce some clinical complications. 258 M. Wang et al. It is important to keep in mind that all materials are toxic (induce cellular death) at some concentration, and some studies have been completed in vitro and in vivo to determine metal cytotoxicity . There are also clinical reports on the in vivo effect of metal ion release . Specifi cally, stainless steel contains more than one kind of metal element which, when considered together, may create even more potential safety prob- lems. Some medical implant alloys may lead to genotoxicity, such as TiAlV and CoCrMo . Other studies have also correlated metal- lic elements with cytotoxicity (e.g., Okazaki and Gotoh 2013). Copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), manganese (Mn), silver (Ag), and aluminum (Al) may all introduce problems as trace elements in the human body. For instance, zinc plays diverse positive roles in biological functions but may adversely infl uence DNA syn- thesis, enzyme activity, and hormonal activity (Storrie and Stupp 2005). Most importantly, these metals can lead to signifi cant cytotoxicity when experienced at high doses. Apart from wear debris generated from surface corrosion and/or mechani- cal loosening, dissolution of metals after long-term use is another probable cause of metal presence in the body. The prolonged contact of metal alloys with bodily fl uids results in gradual corrosion of even the most stable metals. Some implant metallic material components are potentially carcinogenic. The release of soluble metal ions includes aluminum, chromium (Cr), vanadium (V), c obalt (Co), and titanium (Ti) . Recently, numerous in vitro investigations into the impact of metal toxicity toward cells have been established (Daley et al. 2004; Rochford et al. 2012). Among those soluble metals, c hromium, cobalt, t itanium, chromium, and a luminum have mutagenic actions on tissue-forming cells. However, Cr(VI) and Ni(II) were proved to be carcinogens to humans . On a genotoxic level, Daley et al. found that metal ions can cause both direct effects, through DNA breakage, and indirect effects, by inhibiting the repair of DNA . High concentrations of metals can negatively infl uence cellular functions and may induce cancer; these concepts are fi nding increasing agreement (Rochford et al. 2012). As described below, different metal ions have different cytotoxic- ity mechanisms which must be properly understood in order to
