Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


these concepts are fi nding increasing agreement (Rochford et al. 2012). As described below, different metal ions have different cytotoxic- ity mechanisms which must be properly understood in order to develop bio- metals with decreased toxicity. Copper Nanoparticles of c opper are used in numerous consumer products, from facial sprays to medical devices. Inhaled copper or skin exposure may lead to cytotox- icity. Park et al. (2013) report that copper and its oxides are cytotoxic, possibly even more so when formulated into nanoparticles. Nanoparticles have come under great scrutiny for toxicity concerns since the same volume of nanopar- ticles of the same chemistry, compared to micron particles, results in increased surface area exposure, which may lead to increased toxicity. Moreover, the Nanometals: Reducing Infection and Increasing Biocompatibility 259 nanoparticle size can lead to Cu ion release inside of cells, because they easily cross cell membranes. Karlsson et al. (2008) showed that CuO particles were much more toxic than Cu ions, as CuO particles caused more DNA damage due to oxidative lesions. In neurobiology, copper is the third most abundant transition metal in the human body and brain, with an average neural Cu con- centration on the order of 0.1 mM . Zinc Zinc is an essential element in the human body and can be used as an anti- bacterial agent. In some research, Zn nanoparticles have been used to modify implants to improve the antibacterial effect . Zinc, however, is also toxic at high doses in the human body. Zinc inhibits Ca uptake, even- tually resulting in reduced total Ca body content in the organism. When Ca reduction is severe enough, an organism will die as a result of hypocalcaemia . At high concentrations, zinc oxide (ZnO) nanoparticles are toxic to mammalian cells in vitro and the human lung in vivo; the mechanism of t oxicity is poorly understood, and it is not known to what extent sequential nano-bio interfaces play a role (Xia et al. 2008; Palmiter 2004). Both ZnO and zinc are cytotoxic. Some studies have investigated the mechanism of Zn toxicity and proposed that the ZnO particles dissolve to form Zn+. It has also been reported that Zn+ induced a signifi cantly higher rate of cell death than an equivalent amount of zinc in the form of ZnO (Xia et al. 2008; Palmiter 2004). The ZnO dissociation disrupts cellular Zn homeostasis, leading to lysosomal and mitochondria damage
