Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


than an equivalent amount of zinc in the form of ZnO (Xia et al. 2008; Palmiter 2004). The ZnO dissociation disrupts cellular Zn homeostasis, leading to lysosomal and mitochondria damage and ultimately cell death. Another mechanism of toxicological injury may be through the production of reactive oxygen spe- cies (ROS) and o xidative stress . Dissolution of ZnO raises intracellular Zn2+ and is associated with high levels of ROS production (Xia et al. 2008). Palmiter (2004) reports that in vitro toxic concentrations of Zn2+ typically exceed 10 mg/l. In addition, zinc may inhibit key enzymes in the gly- colytic pathway, leading to ATP depletion in cells . Silver S ilver is well known for its broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity against G ram-negative and G ram-positive bacteria, fungi, chlamydia, mycoplasma, and certain viruses, especially antibiotic-resistant strains. Many implant sur- face-modifi cation studies use silver as the antibacterial agent (e.g., Balazs et al. 2004). At suitable doses, it is possible to fabricate coatings with long-term antibacterial characteristics by introducing and controlling Ag release (Zhao et al. 2011). However, silver has a high degree of toxicity. In primary human endometrial epithelial cells, the cytotoxicity of the metal ions is ranked as fol- lows: Ag+ > Cu2+ > Zn2+ . Concentrations of Ag nanoparticles between 5–10 μg/ml induced necrosis or apoptosis of mouse spermatogonial 260 M. Wang et al. stem cells . Several studies report different cyto- toxicity concentrations of s ilver, including 1.6 ppm Ag+ and 36 μmol/l Ag+ for Ag nanoparticles between 5 and 10 μg/ml (Braydich-Stolle et al. 2005; Franck et al. 2004). Chromium Chromium is contained in stainless steel and other orthopedic-related Cr al- loys (e.g., CoCrMo). Compared to other metallic implants, it has good proper- ties for corrosion resistance. However, chromium can cause signifi cant cyto- toxicity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, macrophages, osteoblast-like cells, and bone marrow stromal cells. It also can cause an immunogenic effect, which may lead to implant failure (Fleury et al. 2006; Granchi et al. 1998). As such, chromium is not an ideal metal to use in i mplants, and many industries and researchers are shying away from its use. Titanium Titanium-based dental and orthopedic implants are widely used in clinical set- tings. It is commonly understood to be a low toxic material due to the oxide that forms on its surface. In fact, there have not been many reports concerning the toxicity
