Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


It is commonly understood to be a low toxic material due to the oxide that forms on its surface. In fact, there have not been many reports concerning the toxicity of titanium, and most of these studies have focused on Ti alloys . Magnesium M agnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral found in the human body. It has been intensively investigated for vascular stents and orthopedics, due to its natural ability to biodegrade and because it is a common nutrient for humans. Still, excessive amounts of Mg have been linked to increased risk of c ardiovas- cular disease (Weisinger and Bellorin-Font 1998). Use of Metals for Fighting Infection and Infl ammation Infection Infection and infl ammation are the most common complications caused by implants. They are exacerbated through exposure to heavy metals specifi cally contained in those implants, the effects of which may persist over the lifetime of the patient, thus, creating a constant potential for infection and infl amma- tion. The presence of an implanted device results in an increased susceptibil- ity to infection for the patient, owing to the creation of an immunologically compromised zone adjacent to the implant. Immune response is infl uenced Nanometals: Reducing Infection and Increasing Biocompatibility 261 by the status of the tissue surrounding the implant, implant design, alignment of implant components, mechanical properties, surface morphology, and wear debris. Bacteria colonization constitutes another cause for concern. Some implant failures are commonly associated with S taphylococcus aureus and S. epidermidis, S. aureus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa are common patho- gens responsible for medical device infections . E scherichia coli, E nterococcus faecalis, and Enterobacter cloacae are less frequently en- countered . S. epidermidis and S. aureus ( Gram-positive bacteria) as well as E. coli and P. aeruginosa (G ram-negative bacteria) are the most commonly tested bacteria in medical device antimicrobial research, and recently signifi cant promise has been shown for the use of nanostructured ma- terials to inhibit such bacterial actions (Hetrick and Schoenfi sch 2006). At the cellular level, implant-associated infections result from extensive bacterial adhesion and growth on the implant material surface (Roguska et al. 2012). For a successful implant, tissue integration must occur before bacte- rial adhesion to the implant materials so that colonization of bacteria at the implant can be prevented. If tissue integration does not occur before bacterial adhesion, the host is unable to protect itself (Hetrick and Schoenfi sch
