Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


that colonization of bacteria at the implant can be prevented. If tissue integration does not occur before bacterial adhesion, the host is unable to protect itself (Hetrick and Schoenfi sch 2006) and b acterial infection will lead to implant failure quickly after surgery. Peri- implant disease, peri-implant mucositis, and peri-implantitis are complications indicative of implant failure . Peri-implant infection is a collective term for infl ammatory reactions in the soft tissues surround- ing implants. Soft tissue surrounding implants will commonly have a revers- ible infl ammatory response, called peri-implant mucositis, whereas soft tissue complications (hyperplastic mucositis, fi stulations, and mucosal abscess) seem mainly to have an infectious etiology . Loose prosthetic components have been reported to be related to fi stula- tions and hyperplastic mucositis (Sánchez-Gárces and Gay-Escoda 2004). Abscesses can sometimes be seen in relation to food particles trapped in the peri-implantitis, referred to as an infl ammatory reaction with a loss of sup- porting bone surrounding implants (Norowski and Bumgardner 2009). In such cases, adhesive bacteria have the capability to form a biofi lm to prevent further desirable tissue formation. As shown in Figure 16.1, the process of bacterial infection can be separated into three steps (Hetrick and Schoenfi sch 2006; Taylor and Webster 2011). The fi rst step is the adsorption of proteins from bodily fl uids (such as fi bronectin, vitronectin and fi brinogen) onto an implant surface. Depending on the proteins adsorbed, bacteria may subsequently adhere, thus setting up the potential for a device-associated infection. The adhesion of bacteria is generated by the sur- face adsorption of a bacterial-formed biofi lm of macromolecules or organic compounds (Hetrick and Schoenfi sch 2006). This second step can be divided into two series based on what happens during and after implant surgery. The primary difference between these two series is whether a special biofi lm forms 262 M. Wang et al. (a) (b) Catheter contamination Gum disease Implant contamination (c) Maturation Detachment Cell–cell Attachment to adhesion the surface Attachment to and the host matrix proliferation proteins Figure 16.1 Biofi lm pathogenicity in humans is mediated by dissemination and bio- fi lm matrix formation. (a) Possible routes of biofi lm dissemination originate from gum disease and catheter or implant contamination. (b) Scanning electron micrographs of a clinical endotracheal tube identifi ed as Streptococcus p neumonia. Scale bar shown is 1 μm. (c) Schematic of biofi lm-mediated, device-related infection, starting
