Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


contamination. (b) Scanning electron micrographs of a clinical endotracheal tube identifi ed as Streptococcus p neumonia. Scale bar shown is 1 μm. (c) Schematic of biofi lm-mediated, device-related infection, starting with bacte- rial attachment to a device or adsorbed host proteins, leading to biopolymer mediated cell–cell adhesion, maturation, and eventual detachment, which results in the spread of infection. Reprinted from Taylor and Webster (2011) with permission from Dove Medical Press Ltd. on the implant materials (Taylor and Webster 2011). Padial-Molina et al. (2011) report that implant surface properties (e.g., charge, roughness, morphology, and hydrophobicity) determine the formation of the biofi lm, which forms very quickly after implantation. Thereafter, the biofi lm affects implant reactions with the host immune system and infl uences tissue formation and bacterial adhesion. As a result, adhesion of additional bacteria signifi cantly decreases after biofi lm formation because the biofi lm forms a “capsule” or “microenvi- ronment,” which limits interactions with other cells or biological molecules. After the initial attachment of bacteria on the surface of implant materials, bacteria begin to aggregate and accumulate in multiple layers (Vacheethasanee and Marchant 2000). During this process, more protein is secreted by bacteria and absorbed by this biofi lm. As for cellular aggregation and biofi lm formation, a microsystem forms on the surface of implant materials, and this can be referred to as the third step (An and Friedman 1998). During biofi lm formation, bacteria secrete an exopolysaccharide layer which can prevent microorganism clearance by the immune response. With this protective coating, bacteria in this biofi lm have been reported to show a high resistance to antibiotics (Hetrick and Schoenfi sch 2006). When a biofi lm matures enough, bacteria migrate to the surrounding Nanometals: Reducing Infection and Increasing Biocompatibility 263 area or a part of it detaches, moving to the planktonic state within the body fl uid to initiate a new cycle of biofi lm formation. Understanding how to minimize infection induced by bacteria has improved over the past decade as a result of improvements in sterilization and surgical equipment cleaning. Although sterilization techniques signifi cantly reduce the chance of infection, new technology is still required to improve medical de- vice bacterial colonization, especially since our standard of care focuses on using pharmaceutical agents, which have quickly led to bacterial mutation and resistance. Passive strategies, including medical device nanostructured sur- face modifi cation, have signifi cantly reduced the chance
