Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


focuses on using pharmaceutical agents, which have quickly led to bacterial mutation and resistance. Passive strategies, including medical device nanostructured sur- face modifi cation, have signifi cantly reduced the chance of b acterial infection. Another intensely investigated method to improve the antibacterial effi cacy of implant materials is to deliver antibiotics underneath the bacteria (i.e., from a surface coating). Common antibiotics that are usually used in this method are vancomycin, tobramycin, cefamandol, cephalothin, carbenicillin, amoxicillin, and gentamicin (Norowski and Bumgardner 2009). The rate and manner in which a drug is released from a coating factor into the effectiveness of the antibiotic; there is concern, however, that such approaches will lead to the de- velopment of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. These properties are determined by the matrix into which an antibiotic is loaded or doped (Hetrick and Schoenfi sch 2006). Antibiotic release has been widely used in all kinds of coatings. Release strategies from non-biodegradable and biodegradable polymers to carbonated hydroxyapatite are the most representative examples (Price et al. 1996; Stigter et al. 2004). Antibiotics have also been released from porous metals created using anodization, which even without drug release have shown signifi cant abilities to decrease bacteria growth (Figure 16.2). To date, a common method used to transfer metals into materials to decrease bacterial growth is to coat the metals with polymers. P olymer coatings used for antibiotic delivery include polyurethane and polymethyl methacrylate (Price et al. 1996). Antibiotic release can be prolonged through polyurethane coatings, when an additional thin polymer layer is applied on the top of the antibiotic- loaded polymer . This secondary layer serves as a barrier to drug diffusion, thereby extending the total release duration time. Alternatively, biodegradable coatings can deliver controlled doses of antibiotics. Sustained release is critical for fi ghting infection due to the persistent nature of bacte- rial adhesion and functions on medical device surfaces. Similar release pro- fi les have also been obtained from carbonated hydroxyapatite (CHA) coatings. Hydroxyapatite surfaces have strong bonds with bone and have been applied as a promising method for improving long-term implant coatings; when created at the nanoscale, they can decrease bacterial functions. These coatings were premodifi ed via immersion in antibiotic solutions. Although simple, antibiotic- loaded CHA coatings demonstrate very good antibacterial effi cacy against S . aureus, such bacteria may mutate and form news strains resistant to such anti- biotics . 264 M. Wang et al. Figure
