Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


demonstrate very good antibacterial effi cacy against S . aureus, such bacteria may mutate and form news strains resistant to such anti- biotics . 264 M. Wang et al. Figure 16.2 S EM micrographs of titanium before and after electron beam evapo- ration and anodization: (a) conventional titanium as purchased from the vendor; (b) nanorough titanium after electron beam evaporation; (c) nanotextured titanium after anodization for 1 min in 0.5% HF at 20 V; (d) nanotubular titanium after anodization for 10 min in 1.5% HF at 20 V. Scale bars = 200 nm. After Puckett et al. (2010), with permission from Elsevier. For this reason, there is currently much interest in the use of nanostructured surface modifi cation or n anoparticles of metals to fi ght infection without the use of antibiotics. Specifi cally, this strategy involves the development of im- proved antibacterial biomaterials via surface modifi cation, such as changing metallic surface roughness or decorating them with nanomaterials (Roguska et al. 2012; Zhao et al. 2011; Puckett et al. 2010). Altering surface roughness of metallic materials at the nanoscale can signifi cantly increase surface area (and, thus, exposure of the metallic chemistry), leading to changes in net sur- face energy. This change in hydrophilic properties of the medical device leads to changes in initial protein adsorption and bioactivity, which can infl uence whether bacteria attach, grow, and form biofi lms. For example, for TiO , it has been reported that novel nanotubes with unique surface energy can be formed on the surface of titanium via an electrochemical reaction (Roguska et al. 2012; Zhao et al. 2011). Apart from surface nanotubes, researchers have also incor- porated nanoparticles to decrease bacterial adhesion on implant materials, such as silver, zinc, ZnO, and zirconia (ZrO ) (Huang et al. 2012a; Roguska et al. Nanometals: Reducing Infection and Increasing Biocompatibility 265 2012; Xu et al. 2010; Zhao et al. 2011). These results suggest that nanopar- ticles known to be antibacterial (such as silver and zinc) combined with com- mon metallic materials can signifi cantly improve the antibacterial performance relative to conventional Ti implant materials. In addition, coating metals with other metals or metal ions is also an effective way to create antibacterial im- plant materials. As mentioned above, silver and zinc have been reported to act broadly against a wide range of bacteria (Xu et al. 2010; Zhao et al. 2011). The antibacterial properties
