Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


materials. As mentioned above, silver and zinc have been reported to act broadly against a wide range of bacteria (Xu et al. 2010; Zhao et al. 2011). The antibacterial properties of silver have been known for centuries as the chemical nature of silver affords antibacterial activity in multiple ways. Biomolecules like proteins and enzymes contain nucleophilic sulfhydryl, hydroxyl, and amine functionalities which can coordinate with Ag cations (Ag+). As a result, Ag+ disrupts the function of bacterial cell membranes and important metabolic proteins or enzymes. This is why silver plays a role in a ntibacterial adhesion . Furthermore, Wang and collaborators have used selenium coatings on numerous materials (including metals) to inhibit biofi lm formation on paper towels and polycarbonate medical devices (Wang et al. 2012c; Wang and Webster 2013). These studies show that the use of nanoparticle selenium- coated paper towels, polycarbonate, and metallic medical devices creates con- ditions that do not support the proliferation of bacteria; this increased elimina- tion of bacteria is accomplished without the use of antibiotics, which again could lead to the development of a ntibiotic-resistant bacteria. In their attempts to gain a clear understanding of the relationship between the nanostructure of a metal surface and bacterial attachment, Puckett et al. (2010) showed that different roughness values of titanium at the nanoscale can infl uence bacterial attachment. They investigated the adhesion and growth of S. aureus, S. epidermidis, and P. aeruginosa on conventional titanium, nanorough titanium generated through electron beam evaporation, as well as nanotublar and nanotextured titanium produced by two anodization methods (Figure 16.3). Different nanoscale roughness properties of Ti substrates have already been shown here. Incredibly, without the use of antibiotics, they found that nanorough Ti surfaces were crystalline TiO whereas the nanotublar and nanotextured surfaces were amorphous and all decreased bacteria growth. This study provides further knowledge of how to reduce bacteria colonization on metals commonly used in o rthopedics through the sole use of nanoscale sur- face features. In addition to these efforts concerning modifying the roughness of metals with nanoscale features to decrease bacterial functions, some research has been conducted on the use of metallic nanoparticles to penetrate and then destroy biofi lms. Specifi cally, attention is being focused on superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPION) as a superior nanoparticle chemistry to decrease multiple b acterial infections on demand (and as controlled by an external magnetic source), which is even better
