Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


267 proinfl ammatory cytokines (Hallab and Jacobs 2009). Proinfl ammatory fac- tors, like TNF-α and IL-6 cytokines, are produced by macrophages via the NFĸβ pathway. Meanwhile, the proinfl ammatory cytokine IL-1β has been shown to promote danger signaling in human macrophages (Hallab and Jacobs 2009). Infl ammation activation of macrophages to secrete TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and PGE2 stimulate differentiation of pre-osteoclasts into osteoclasts (bone resorbing cells) . In this way, osteoclast resorption of bone- surrounding prosthetics may lead to harmful implant loosening; this does not necessarily mean that new bone will form like that which occurs naturally through the stimulation of osteoclast functions (Figure 16.4). Oftentimes such particles are generated through wear debris from ortho- pedic implants, but macrophages will also attempt to engulf larger medical device surfaces. The mechanism of implant debris initiating a proinfl ammatory immune response is still not clear, especially when the role that nanoparticles Figure 16.4 Debris-induced infl ammation is primarily mediated by macrophages. Macrophages ingest debris, which results in the release of proinfl ammatory cytokines that affect local cell types and induce a widening zone of soft tissue damage and infl am- mation. Reprinted with permission from Hallab and Jacobs (2009). 268 M. Wang et al. play in such processes is considered. There is concern that smaller wear debris particles in the nanometer regime will initiate a larger proinfl ammatory im- mune response due to a larger surface area to volume ratio; however, some studies have indicated that small enough metallic nanoparticles can even avoid immune system recognition completely. Apart from the activation of local infl ammatory responses, which results in osteoblast deposition, decreasing bone formation, and osteoclast digestion of bone, metallic wear debris has a signifi cant negative infl uence on mesen- chymal stem cell differentiation into functional bone cells (Hallab and Jacobs 2009). Moreover, as the population ages, it can be expected that more patients with osteoporosis will require orthopedic procedures, including arthroplasty. Thus, the toxic consequences of orthopedic wear debris discussed above, in relation to infl ammation, need to be closely considered. Adverse outcomes are more likely in osteoporosis patients who require orthopedic procedures . Thus, some metals and associated wear debris particles will lead to immune reactions or infl ammatory reactions that should be considered carefully. In this manner, again, the use of nanometals in orthopedics will re- sult in nanoparticulate wear debris that cannot be recognized by the immune
