Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


reactions that should be considered carefully. In this manner, again, the use of nanometals in orthopedics will re- sult in nanoparticulate wear debris that cannot be recognized by the immune system and may be the future for all metallic-based orthopedic implants. Use of Nanometals for Cancer Treatment It is not possible t o discuss the use of metals in orthopedics without mention- ing the potential link between metallic wear debris and cancer. Small particles of wear debris (less than 150 nm) can be ingested by cellular endocytosis and pinocytosis processes. Larger particles (more than 150 nm to 10 μm) can be phagocytosed by osteoblasts, fi broblasts, endothelial cells, and, most impor- tantly, macrophages (Hallab and Jacobs 2009). As mentioned, macrophages play an important role in ingesting implant debris and secreting antigens for promoting T cell reactions (Shanbhag et al. 1995; Shanbhag et al. 1998). Once wear debris is ingested by macrophages, a series of biological reactions can occur in the host. Specifi cally, pathogen antigens are secreted by macrophages and presented to T helper cells. Thereafter, T cells release proinfl ammatory mediators, which causes wear debris-induced infl ammation (Hallab and Jacobs 2009). Finally, this infl ammation will lead to implant device loosening. Most importantly, wear debris and T cell activation can lead to cellular D NA damage . This has been reported, in animal studies, to lead to a carcinogenic potential of orthopedic implant materials: increases in serum c obalt and c hromium concentrations after metallic orthopedic implant insertion have been shown in numerous studies involving rodents, canines, and felines. However, a recent study implies no signifi cant wear debris increases in human leukemia patients after receiving a metallic implant (Hallab and Jacobs 2009). This remains an intensely debated topic, in which numerous researchers Nanometals: Reducing Infection and Increasing Biocompatibility 269 believe that metallic implant-induced debris causes bone cancer as a result of DNA damage from reactive oxygen synthesis. Alternatively, researchers have turned their attention toward nanotechnol- ogy to combat cancer. For instance, Zhang and colleagues have investigated various nanopatterned PLGA surfaces with different topographies to explore the ideal material for a nticancer implants (Zhang and Webster 2012a, b, 2013). They have found a selective decrease in cancer cell functions pertinent for regenerating healthy bone, lung, and breast tissue in the place of respective resected cancerous tissue, all without the use of chemotherapeutic agents. The mechanism for selectively decreasing such
