Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


pertinent for regenerating healthy bone, lung, and breast tissue in the place of respective resected cancerous tissue, all without the use of chemotherapeutic agents. The mechanism for selectively decreasing such cancer cell functions, while increasing functions of healthy cells, may lie in the fact that nanometer surface features can change selected protein adsorption/bioactivity to inhibit cancer cell functions. Another possible reason is that the stiffer membranes of cancer cells over healthy cells may restrict their attachment on protruding nanorough surfaces (Zhang and Webster 2013) (see again Figure 16.3). This result pro- vides insights into understanding the role of metallic surface nanotopographies in cancer cell interactions. More importantly, it may also lay the groundwork for the next generation of anticancer materials that can selectively decrease cancer cells without the use of chemotherapeutics. Conclusions not degrade in the human body and may cause a series of persistent problems over the lifetime of a patient. This chapter addressed numerous problems and diseases associated with the exposure to such metallic materials, such as infec- tion, infl ammation, cancer, and toxicity. Although some of these topics are still controversial, it has become clear that nanostructured surface features on me- tallic implants, as well as metallic nanoparticles themselves, may actually help to decrease infection, infl ammation, and cancer. So while some believe that increased surface area to volume ratios can lead to increased metallic nanopar- ticle toxicity in the body, there may be numerous, yet to be fully explored, op- tions to use metallic nanotechnology in the future to improve the treatment of a wide range of health problems. First column (top to bottom): Leigh Ackland, John Pettifor, Julia Bornhorst, George Dedoussis, Rodney Dietert, Julia Bornhorst, group discussion Second column: Ellen Silbergeld, Jerome Nriagu, Leigh Ackland, Jozef Pacyna, Jerome Nriagu, Rodney Dietert, Leigh Ackland Third column: Jozef Pacyna, Rodney Dietert, John Pettifor, Ellen Silbergeld, Julia Bornhorst, George Dedoussis, Jerome Nriagu Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases Gaps and Opportunities M. Leigh Ackland, Julia Bornhorst, George V. Dedoussis, Rodney R. Dietert, Jerome O. Nriagu, Jozef M. Pacyna, and John M. Pettifor Abstract This chapter aims to provide insights into current knowledge and gaps in our under- standing of the infl uence that trace metals in the environment have on the p athogenesis of infectious diseases. By reducing immune function, trace metal defi ciencies may substantially contribute to the global burden of d iarrhea,
