Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


metals in the environment have on the p athogenesis of infectious diseases. By reducing immune function, trace metal defi ciencies may substantially contribute to the global burden of d iarrhea, pneumonia, and malaria. Im- proved methods and biomarkers for assessing the risks of trace metals defi ciencies and toxicities are required. Human activities may be contributing to trace metal defi ciency in soils and plants, which is a risk factor for infectious diseases in many countries, by exacerbating the preponderance of cereals and cash crops that reduce food diversity and micronutrient intake. Adaptive strategies are needed to reverse these trends. The microbiomes of the body are in the frontline for exposure to metals and crucial in mod- erating the outcome of host–parasite interactions. Anthropogenic activities have led to increased toxic metal exposure, and effects on human hosts need clarifi cation. Metal toxicities can also impair the immune system and hence increase the susceptibility to infectious pathogens. Climate change affects metal speciation and the build-up of trace elements in the human f ood chain, with as yet unknown outcomes on infectious dis- ease. Food processing and the use of metallic nanomaterials can alter human exposure to metals in ways that can infl uence the host–pathogen competition for metals. The effects of metals on human health may also be mediated through modifi cation of the epigenome, conferring drug resistance on pathogenic bacteria and enhancing/reduc- ing human tolerance to infectious parasites. The emerging metals c erium, g adolinium, 272 M. L. Ackland et al. l anthanum, and y ttrium constitute another driver of change in metal exposure and may potentially modulate the immune system with unknown consequences for human health. Introduction Research during the last half century has clearly established that trace met- als, whether essential or nonessential, play important roles in a wide variety of processes in living systems and can be a defi ning factor in the outcome of parasitic infections (Fraga 2005; Winans et al. 2011). From the environmen- global biogeochemistry of trace metals that can infl uence the patterns of infec- tious diseases by moderating the exposure of human hosts to suboptimal and/ or toxic levels of trace metals: 1. The inadvertent contribution of human activities to the epidemic of trace metal defi ciency through modern agricultural practices—a prob- lem that affects over one billion people worldwide and is especially prevalent in developing countries. 2. Worldwide contamination of the
