Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of trace metal defi ciency through modern agricultural practices—a prob- lem that affects over one billion people worldwide and is especially prevalent in developing countries. 2. Worldwide contamination of the environment with toxic but nonessen- tial trace metals through industrial emissions, which have overwhelmed the natural cycles of these elements in many ecosystems. 3. Global change, which tends to increase the bioaccumulation of trace metals in the human food chain. The fi rst trend is related to the venerated G reen Revolution, which promoted selective breeding of high-yielding crops that have low concentrations of zinc and other trace metals . The unintended consequences of the ongoing changes in trace metal balances in natural ecosystems raise concerns as to whether new efforts in developing countries to increase food production and establish emitting factories will further exacerbate the dispari- ties in the global burden of infectious diseases. The growing worldwide contamination of the environment with toxic trace metals, such as a rsenic, c admium, l ead, m ercury, p latinum, s ilver, and t hallium, and the bioaccumulation and biomagnifi cations of these heavy met- als up the food chain have been well documented . Since these heavy metals have become so widely dispersed, they have the potential to pose a continuous risk for human and animal health globally over a long time period because they are nondegradable. Increasingly, the riskscape used to evaluate this situation (which includes the coexistence of high levels of toxic metal pollution, the high prevalence of trace metal defi ciencies, and the high incidence of infectious diseases) is becoming common in many parts of the world. In addition, the potential for interaction of these risk factors is real, Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 273 but the consequences for the pathogenesis of infectious diseases have not re- ceived much attention. Burden of Disease Attributable to Metals and Infections An assessment of “ burden of disease” is widely used in public health to evalu- ate the aggregate impact that risk factors for a disease have on human health. This is usually considered on a disease-specifi c basis, such as the contribution of salt to the burden of c ardiovascular disease or the contribution of c admium to end-stage renal disease. By implication, this estimate provides a statement of the expected reduction in disease burden that can be predicted by reducing or eliminating exposure to
