Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


c admium to end-stage renal disease. By implication, this estimate provides a statement of the expected reduction in disease burden that can be predicted by reducing or eliminating exposure to the risk factor (e.g., reducing salt intake). Most diseases have multiple effectors and in the case of infectious diseases, which may be caused by a specifi c pathogen, involve multiple factors (e.g., preva- lence, virulence of the pathogen, transmission, host response) that infl uence the severity of the disease. Separately, trace metal defi ciencies or toxicities and infectious diseases contribute substantially to the global burden of morbidity and mortality. Understanding the role of such factors in disease burden is im- portant to national and international public health investments and programs. Thus, it is important to gain a better understanding of the burden of infectious disease that is attributable to defi ciencies in essential metals or excesses of toxic metals; that is, the proportion of the load or burden of infectious diseases that is attributable to metal insuffi ciency compared to that which is attributable to metal t oxicity. A unifi ed global effort to mitigate the high burden of disease attributable to insuffi ciency and toxicity of trace metals, in relation to infec- tious diseases, should be considered important for achieving the Millennium Development Goals and should drive future research. The attributable contributions of metal defi ciency or toxicity to the global infectious disease burden have been estimated for only a few metals: zinc, iron, lead, and arsenic. From their dietary trials, Black and colleagues (Caulfi eld and Black 2004; Black et al. 2008) estimate that Zn defi ciency in children less than fi ve years old increases the incidence of diarrheal disease by 1.28 (95% CI 1.10–1.50), pneumonia by 1.52 (95% CI 1.20–1.89), and m alaria by 1.56 (95% CI 1.29–1.89). From these relative risks, Zn defi ciency was estimated to cause 176,000 diarrhea deaths, 406,000 pneumonia deaths, and 207,000 malaria deaths. The loss of worldwide disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) attribut- able to Zn defi ciency was estimated to be 28 million annually and was ranked fi fth among the risk factors for mortality and morbidity. Subsequent analysis by Lim et al. (2012) dramatically revised these estimates downward: in 2010, total mortality due to Zn defi ciency was estimated to be 97,330. The revised DALY estimate was 9.14 million; this ranked Zn defi ciency 31st among the common risk
