Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


2010, total mortality due to Zn defi ciency was estimated to be 97,330. The revised DALY estimate was 9.14 million; this ranked Zn defi ciency 31st among the common risk factors contributing to the global burden of disease (Lim et al. 274 M. L. Ackland et al. 2012). The variation in estimates, however, underscores the lack of knowledge of the moderating infl uence of Zn defi ciency on infectious diseases. For 2010/2011, reported annual deaths attributable to Fe defi ciency world- wide were estimated to be around 105,000 (Lim et al. 2012; WHO 2013a). Estimated DALYs for this risk range from 46–48 million life years (Lim et al. 2012; WHO 2013a). These estimates were based on Fe-defi ciency anemia as the primary outcome measure, with the assumption that common infectious diseases (e.g., hemolytic malaria and parasitic and bacterial infections/infesta- tions such as hookworm, trichuriasis, amoebiasis, and schistosomiasis) con- tribute to deplete stores of iron and hence result in F e-defi ciency anemia. It must be emphasized that the converse is also true: Fe defi ciency is present in these diseases and is thus a risk factor with sequelae that can go well beyond the development of anemia. Because of failure to account for all comorbid effects, most estimates of the contribution of Fe defi ciency to disease burden may be grossly incorrect or underreported. In terms of the contribution of heavy metal toxicities to the global infec- tious disease burden, in 2010, P b exposure was estimated to have accounted for 674,000 deaths, and the global DALYs attributable to this risk factor are estimated to be 13.9 million life years . The most recent as- sessment by the World Health Organization (WHO) did not rank Pb exposure among the top twenty leading causes of global DALYs . The contribution of infections to Pb-induced morbidity on the calculated DALYs is unclear. A number of studies have estimated the DALYs for A s exposure in drinking water in Bangladesh (Lokuge et al. 2004; Ahmed et al. 2005). None, however, has considered arsenic as a risk factor for any of the water-related infectious diseases (e.g., cholera, helminth infections, schistosomiasis, and trachoma) that coexist widely with elevated levels of arsenic in local drinking water. The signifi cance of arsenic on risk for infectious diseases remains, therefore, to be established. Our ability to assess the metal-attributable fraction of the infectious disease burden is severely limited
