Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


The signifi cance of arsenic on risk for infectious diseases remains, therefore, to be established. Our ability to assess the metal-attributable fraction of the infectious disease burden is severely limited by lack of information on (a) infectious disease end- points that can be infl uenced by metal exposures, (b) distribution of exposure to each metal in the population and the effects of coexposure to more than one metal, and (c) etiological effect sizes for the relationships between metal exposure and disease outcome . It is hoped that this chapter will draw attention to the need for epidemiological studies to collect these types of information. A study has been done on small-scale gold miners in watersheds of the Tapajos in Amazonian Brazil who were coexposed to high incidence of infec- tive mosquito bites and elevated levels of methylated m ercury (MeHg) from consumption of contaminated fi sh (Silva et al. 2004; Silbergeld et al. 2005). Increased risks for malaria (diagnosed by thin smear) were found in miners from downstream settlements exposed to MeHg compared to miners in similar Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 275 ecosystems that did not use mercury (diamond and emerald miners). High prevalence of endemic malaria exists in many regions of Latin America, Asia, and Africa where intensive artisanal small-scale g old mining is widespread. These settings provide opportunities to conduct epidemiological studies to as- sess the relationships between metal exposure and malaria. Animal models of infectious disease have provided insights into the effect of mercury on infectious diseases. Studies have included m ercury and ma- laria in mice , coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) and mercury , and listeria and both cadmium and lead (Simonet et al. 1984; Kowolenko et al. 1991). These studies have consistently reported that metal preexposures increase the severity of disease in mice. The study of mice infected with CVB3 showed a disturbed Hg balance in the intestine, serum, and brain, as well as infection-induced changes in m etallothionein 1 (MT1, a metal-binding/-transporting protein) in the intestine, liver, and brain (e.g., Frisk et al. 2008). This observation was presumed to be a normal response in common infections and the underlying mechanism for the reported fi ndings of Hg changes in blood and tissues. Such results from animal studies (Koller 1975; Beck et al. 1994; Frisk et al. 2007, 2008; Ilbäck et al. 2007) point to serious consequences when infected individuals
