Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


blood and tissues. Such results from animal studies (Koller 1975; Beck et al. 1994; Frisk et al. 2007, 2008; Ilbäck et al. 2007) point to serious consequences when infected individuals are concomitantly exposed to potentially toxic metals, such as mercury in their environment. Coexposures Involving Metals While metals and their impact on risk for infectious disease are often studied on a one metal and one disease basis, humans are more likely to be exposed to mixtures of metals from their diet and environment. The issue becomes more complex in terms of risk assessment since metals may compete for uptake, dis- tribution, and/or use among the host’s immune cells and pathogens. As a result, antagonistic or synergistic effects may operate locally or systemically. Table 17.1 illustrates some examples of reported interactions among and between metals and other frequently encountered environmental factors. This list is not intended to be exhaustive. Among the interactions described in Table 17.1, three patterns are apparent: 1. Metals may act synergistically to cause toxic effects on the immune system. In mice, lead and arsenic caused a greater immunotoxic effect when administered together than when singly administered (Bishayi and Sengupta 2006). 2. In many cases, exposure to toxic heavy metals can result in signifi cant local or systemic defi ciencies of nutritionally required metals. 3. Nonmetal factors are also important in coexposure. For example, both dietary fat and dietary protein (source and percentage) can modulate risk of metal-induced host toxicity. 276 M. L. Ackland et al. Table 17.1 S elect examples of that can affect the host, including immune–microbe interactions. Metal Additional Environmental Outcome Risk Factor Arsenic Selenium Selenium protects against some immuno- toxicity (for basal immune profi les) but does not prevent As-mediated oxidative damage Arsenic trioxide Genistein Increased oxidative potential Cadmium Lead Dose-dependent interactions for oxida- tive-driven neurological outcomes that varies based on developmental window of prenatal coexposures Cadmium Lead Antagonism of the metals for suppres- sion of adult hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities Cadmium Selenium Selenium alters Cd tissue distribution and protects against Cd-promoted innate im- mune oxidative tissue damage Copper Zinc May synergize to inactivate the exposed Fe-S cluster of key bacterial dehydratase enzymes Lead Maternal diet (protein Partial immune protection differences) Lead Arsenic Increased dose sensitivity of macrophages Lead High fat diet Increased blood Pb levels Lead Iron Fe defi ciency increases Pb absorption Lead Selenium In adults, higher Pb levels appear to pre-
