Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


dose sensitivity of macrophages Lead High fat diet Increased blood Pb levels Lead Iron Fe defi ciency increases Pb absorption Lead Selenium In adults, higher Pb levels appear to pre- dispose for Se defi ciency Selenium Vitamin E Some sparing against oxidative damage Iron Aluminum Reduced Fe levels in lymphoid tissues Iron Gallium Reduced Fe availability Iron Cobalt Reduced Fe availability Iron Copper Copper infl uences Fe recycling in macrophages Manganese Zinc Interaction in innate immune, calprotec- tin-mediated host defense Vanadium Magnesium Magnesium protects against Vd-associat- ed, oxidative-induced anemia Zinc Excessive alcohol Zn defi ciency for macrophages Zinc Lead Replaces zinc in critical enzymes Zinc Cadmium Replaces zinc in critical enzymes Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 277 Potential for Leveraging Information from Current Population Studies Considerably more information is required to establish with certainty the role that heavy metals (defi ciencies or excess) play in the p athogenesis, morbidity, and mortality of infectious diseases globally. However, some existing and on- going studies can be used to obtain data on associations between defi ciency of metals and infectious diseases. These include the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) in the United States, the N ational Children’s Studies (NCS) in many countries and regions, and the EU ZINCAGE study. In a recent cross-sectional study, Xu et al. (2013) used NHANES 2003–2010 to compare exposures to heavy metals (including cadmium, lead, and total mercury) in HIV-infected and non-HIV-infected subjects in the United States. They found that HIV-infected individuals had higher concentrations of all heavy metals than the non-HIV infected group. HIV status was signifi cantly associated with increased blood cadmium (p = 0.03) after adjusting for age, sex, race, education, poverty income ratio, and smoking. However, H IV status was not statistically associated with lead or mercury levels after adjusting for the same covariates. Xu et al. concluded that exposure to cadmium was a con- tributing factor to the higher prevalence of c hronic diseases (e.g., c ardiovascu- lar diseases) among HIV-infected subjects. A study based on the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES) from 2009–2010 explored the additive effects of metals on metabolic syndrome, a constellation of cardiovascular risk factors, includ- ing central obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and impaired glucose toler- ance . Although the effect of individual heavy metals (specifi cally lead, m ercury, and cadmium) on metabolic syndrome was weak, the combined heavy
