Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


hypertension, dyslipidemia, and impaired glucose toler- ance . Although the effect of individual heavy metals (specifi cally lead, m ercury, and cadmium) on metabolic syndrome was weak, the combined heavy metal exposure affected metabolic syndrome more synergistically than individual exposure in the general Korean population. Together, the N HANES and KNHANES studies suggest that metals and infections give rise to similar comorbidities in the form of metabolic syndrome. Currently, the NCS in the United States is examining the effects of the en- vironment—broadly defi ned to include factors such as air, water, diet, noise, family dynamics, community and cultural infl uences—and genetics on the NCS study follows children from before birth until 21 years of age. The goal of the study is to improve the health and well-being of children and to expand understanding of the role that various factors have on health and disease. There should be enough information in the resulting data base to permit the assess- ment of possible comorbidities attributable to coexposure to trace metals and pathogenic organisms. Another large study that is currently underway is the Japan National Study on Children and the Environment, which has already enrolled over 100,000 infants. It is similar in design to the NCS in terms of methods, data collection, and biosampling in a longitudinal design and can be used similarly to assess comorbidities from metal–pathogen interactions. 278 M. L. Ackland et al. Metal Suffi ciency, Defi ciency, and Toxicity within the Context of Infections The lack of clarity in the defi nitions of defi ciency, susceptibility, and toxicity of metals in relation to infectious disease leads to diffi culties in determining these parameters. Here we wish to highlight the main issues involved. For fur- ther discussion, see Rehder et al. (this volume). Confl icts in Principles and Methods Used to Determine Suffi ciency and Defi ciency of Essential Trace Elements Different principles and methods have been used by various governmental agencies to establish (a) recommendations designed to protect the public from the toxic effects of trace metals (including essential ones) and (b) advisable safe intakes aimed at protecting the public from the adverse effects of defi - ciency. This has often resulted in confl icting recommendations. To highlight one example, consider the recommended dietary allowances (RDAs)—estab- lished by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. National Research Council to ensure adequate nutritional intake of trace metals
