Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


example, consider the recommended dietary allowances (RDAs)—estab- lished by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. National Research Council to ensure adequate nutritional intake of trace metals to main- tain normal physiological functions—and the reference dose (RfD) or daily ex- posure levels—set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to protect the public from trace metal t oxicity: Because of uncertainties inherent in toxicity evaluation, RfDs must often include uncertainty factors to provide suffi cient margin of safety (especially for vulnerable groups). This, in turn, can bias the RfD estimate toward the low side. For mercury in fi sh, the current RDA is substantially higher than the RfD; this has led to confl icting fi sh consumption advisories in the United States and created public confusion. Such confl icts point to the need for new principles and methods in the assessment of risks of essential trace metals: nutritional and toxicological information must be con- sidered in a balanced way . Such a unifi ed approach should pro- vide a coherent framework for assessing the moderating effects of trace metals on infectious diseases. Biomarkers to Establish Links between Metal Exposure and Infectious Disease Biomarkers, defi ned as an indicator of some biological state or condition, refl ect changes in the organism’s metabolism in response to an exposure (or lack thereof). Biomarkers have greatly expanded the scope of epidemiologi- cal and toxicological research by providing insights into events that couple exposures and diseases or dysfunctions. In addition, they inform knowledge of events within the organism that connect changes in exposure with changes in health. This approach allows us to test hypotheses as to the processes of pathophysiological response and generates useful information on early signals Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 279 of adverse effects associated with exposures. Figure 17.1 illustrates the metal pathways that link metal exposure to infectious disease. To the standard model (Silbergeld and Davis 1994), we have added the microbiome at the interface between the external exposure and the internal dose to denote the importance of microbial events in absorption. Each point on the diagram represents a po- tential biomarker. The concept of body metal status (i.e., whether the body contains amounts of metals that are suffi cient for optimal biological processes) is not well de- fi ned, yet it is central to the development of RDAs . In assessing metal status,
