Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of metals that are suffi cient for optimal biological processes) is not well de- fi ned, yet it is central to the development of RDAs . In assessing metal status, the question of whether subjects are defi cient, at risk of being defi cient, have adequate body levels, or are experiencing metal toxicity cannot often be answered simply, particularly if the metal (such as zinc) has numerous biological functions. A common host response during acute bacterial, viral, and parasitic infections is an increase in the synthesis of metal-binding proteins in several target organs involved in the infectious process (Beisel 1998; Ilbäck et al. 2004). This may result in signifi cant changes in the dynamics and concen- trations of both essential and nonessential trace elements in blood and tissues that are used as biomarkers (Beisel 1998; Ilbäck et al. 2003). A signifi cant amount of work has been done on disease-related redistribution of the essen- tial trace elements following an infection, and a number of proteins that can serve as metal carriers have been identifi ed: Fe-binding ferritin, divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), Cu-binding ceruloplasmin, and Zn-binding MT1–MT4 (Beisel 1998; Nordberg and Nordberg 2000; Ilbäck et al. 2004). Since trace ele- ments are required for host defense processes, a fl ux of trace elements between blood and other tissues, including the tissues that are involved in the disease, is usually orchestrated during active infection (Beisel 1998; Frisk et al. 2007). Although less is known about infection-induced changes in nonessential trace elements, changes have been described that may not be favorable to the host: Metal exposure Metal response Pollution (air, water) Sources of Biological Early Altered Internal Infectious Diet metal effective biological structure/ dose disease exposure dose effect function Lifestyle Susceptibility factors Microbiome Gender Coexposure Lifestyle Age Genetic makeup Figure 17.1 Metal pathways that link metal exposure to infectious disease. 280 M. L. Ackland et al. an increased redistribution of cadmium from the liver to the kidneys (Ilbäck et al. 2004), increased Hg concentration in red blood cells , or increased loading of arsenic, cadmium, copper, and zinc into the brain (Ilbäck et al. 2007). Biomarkers provide important information about metal status in different tissues and organs with respect to defi ciency or toxicity, and they as- sist in establishing the impact of metal defi ciency on infectious disease. Global Trends in Trace Metal Defi ciency with the Potential to Impact on
