Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


or toxicity, and they as- sist in establishing the impact of metal defi ciency on infectious disease. Global Trends in Trace Metal Defi ciency with the Potential to Impact on Infectious Diseases Trace metal defi ciency in soils and plants is a risk factor for infectious dis- eases in many parts of the world. From 190 major agricultural soils, it is es- timated that 49% are defi cient in zinc, 31% defi cient in b oron, 15% defi cient in m olybdenum, 14% defi cient in copper, 10% defi cient in manganese, and 3% defi cient in iron (Sillanpää 1982; Graham et al. 2012). In general, soils associated with trace metal defi ciencies include neutral and calcareous soils, intensively cropped soils, paddy soils and poorly drained soils, sodic and saline soils, peat soils, soils with high available phosphorus and silicon, sandy soils, as well as highly weathered acid and coarse-textured soils; these types of soils are widespread in many parts of the world (Singh 2008; Lyons and Cakmak 2012). Low availability of zinc and other trace metals in such soils is one of the most widely distributed stressors in world agriculture, especially in southeast Asian countries and Australia (Brennan and Bolland 2006; Singh 2008; Lyons and Cakmak 2012). More than 85% of the cereal-growing areas in India are affected by low zinc . Cereals and wheat grown in such soils are liable to be defi cient in zinc and other trace metals, leading to low crop yields and decreased n utritional quality of the f ood (Bouis 2003; Cakmak et al. 2010). The preponderance of cereals and cash crops in modern cropping systems and worldwide adoption of high-yielding cultivars have combined to reduce our food diversity and micronutrient intake in ways that can impact the im- mune system (Govindaraj et al. 2011; Graham et al. 2012). Today, production of various wild, traditional, or ancient food crops, which are genetically very diverse and may be rich in trace elements, has been largely displaced by crops of the modern agricultural system (Welch and Graham 2005; Birner et al. 2007; Graham et al. 2012). The latter has contributed to a decrease in cereal prices and an increase in price for legumes, fruits, vegetables, and animal and fi sh protein; this has led to the so-called “ hidden hunger” or micronutrient defi cien- cy brought about by these less nutritious cereal crops becoming more
