Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and animal and fi sh protein; this has led to the so-called “ hidden hunger” or micronutrient defi cien- cy brought about by these less nutritious cereal crops becoming more afford- able and available . Among widely cultivated food crops with high-yield capacity, wheat plays a particularly important role in daily en- ergy intake (especially in the developing countries), accounting for about 50% of daily energy intake in many Central Asian and Middle Eastern countries (Lyons and Cakmak 2012). Such high-yield wheat cultivars are poor sourc- es of micronutrients, especially zinc and iron, and are rich in anti-nutritional Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 281 compounds such as phytic acid and phenolic compounds, which reduce bio- logical availability of zinc and iron in the human digestive tract (Graham et al. 2012). The factors which lead to a reduced availability of trace elements in crops occur in areas of the world with high incidence of infectious diseases. Food Systems Approach to a “Greener Revolution” Until recently, micronutrient defi ciency was primarily viewed as a soil or (to a lesser extent) plant problem. More importantly, though, it needs to be ad- dressed as a human health problem—one that impacts susceptibility to infec- tious diseases. The unintended consequences of the G reen Revolution, which promoted micronutrient defi ciencies in the human population (reviewed by Bouis et al. 2012; Graham et al. 2012), has prompted a growing call for agricultural tech- nologies that can sustainably meet the increasing food demands of the world’s expanding population while providing adequate supplies of bioavailable trace elements and micronutrients for public health. Conceptual models have been advanced for such food systems, including a farm-to-fork approach that is fo- cused on cropping systems and their abilities to support balanced human nutri- tion in sustainable ways (Welch et al. 1997; Lyons and Cakmak 2012). This approach aims to increase diversity (re-diversifi cation) of cropping systems, particularly with respect to indigenous fruits, vegetables, and pulses, and de- veloping trace metal dense cultivars of staple crops. In addition, it advocates fi nding a more effective means of using the iron and zinc contained in cereal brans (which are often removed during food preparation) and developing ap- propriate technologies to preserve and store foods (Coombs 2000; Welch and Graham 2012; Thompson and Amoroso 2013). Such new stategies need to ad- dress simultaneously the demand of the growing human population
