Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


to preserve and store foods (Coombs 2000; Welch and Graham 2012; Thompson and Amoroso 2013). Such new stategies need to ad- dress simultaneously the demand of the growing human population for food and a balanced nutrient output, in the context of environmental, economic, and social sustainability. Such a “greener revolution” differs from the traditional concept of agriculture, which measures its success in terms of crop production (bushels per acre yields) or cost in dollars per year; indeed, the new system would expand that view to include measures of impact on human n utrition and health.To provide improved trace element nutrition and potentially lessen the risk for infectious diseases, a greener revolution must include adaptive strate- gies to reverse micronutrient defi ciencies. Metal Pathways and Metals in the Microbiome “Exposure” t o metals occurs outside the organism through, for example, air and water pollution, d iet, or l ifestyle (cigarette s moking is a major source of exposure to lead and cadmium). The metals in an exposure pathway (Figure 17.1), such as air, water, and food, are then presented to the organism primarily 282 M. L. Ackland et al. through inhalation, ingestion, or dermal contact. Processes of absorption medi- ate transfer of metal-containing substances into the internal environments of the organism. As illustrated in Figure 17.1, the microbiome (vertically stacked circles) is situated at portals of entry, such as the gut and skin, at the boundary of the organism. The Importance of the Microbiome The microbiome is a microbial community within a specifi ed niche (e.g., with- in an organ system or ecologic space) or a community of all microbes, chemi- cals, and inputs/outputs related to the microbial system. This fi eld of study the Human Microbiome Project with the intent of surveying and characterizing the microbes that reside at different body sites . The seminal report on microbes from 18 body sites in over 240 healthy volunteers revealed the complex nature of the human microbial inhabitants and the in- credible amount of both intra- and interpersonal variation in the communities that inhabit the human body. Nonetheless, how the availability of critical trace elements infl uences the biotic composition and distribution at each site has yet to receive any attention. Some microbiomes (e.g., the skin, g astrointestinal tract, and lung) reside at the portals of host exposure to the environment. In the schematic model of b iomarkers of exposure and outcomes
