Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


microbiomes (e.g., the skin, g astrointestinal tract, and lung) reside at the portals of host exposure to the environment. In the schematic model of b iomarkers of exposure and outcomes (Figure 17.1), these microbiomes may represent a front line for exposure to metals, whether via inhalation, ingestion, or dermal route. It is the place where the human host fi rst encounters micro- biota and environmental sources of metals. In the following, we introduce a modifi ed exposure–outcome biomarker model to include the microbiome as a signifi cant early stage component affecting host exposure and immune-related h ost defense. A potentially critical target of heavy metal exposures during de- velopment is disruption of complete attainment of the normal adult human microbiome. The processes involved may include interactions that take place in the microbiome (gut but possibly others such as oral and lung), in terms of metabolizing the trace metals as well as removing toxic heavy metals from the organism prior to absorption through the epithelial layer. Gut Microbiome The g ut has the largest microbial community in the human body and contains at least two orders of magnitude more genes than are found in the human ge- nome . Microorganisms in the human gut microbiome have devel- oped coping strategies to transform a toxic metal into a less harmful form or to bind the metal intra- or extracellularly, so as to prevent harmful interactions within the host cell (Diamond et al. 1998; Monachese et al. 2012). Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 283 The gut microbiota can infl uence two processes pertaining to metals: (a) detoxifi cation in relation to the removal of drugs, mutagens, and other harmful agents from the body, and (b) detoxifi cation to prevent the entry of damaging compounds into the body . Detoxifi cation occurs in the human intestinal tract, liver, and kidneys where microbes reduce or moderate the forms and concentrations of toxic metals . Gut micro- biota may also have a major role in binding metals, preventing their entry to the body and thus protecting the host. The extent of detoxifi cation depends on the route of entry, the foodstuff consumed, and the types of host microbiota . The effects of gut microbiota on the sequestration and detoxi- fi cation of toxic metals and the extent that these microbes provide protection to the human host remain an area for systematic
