Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of gut microbiota on the sequestration and detoxi- fi cation of toxic metals and the extent that these microbes provide protection to the human host remain an area for systematic investigation. One recent study has shown that perturbations in the gut microbiome composition of mice can lead to gut microbiome phenotypes that signifi cantly affect As metabolic reac- tions, including reduction, methylation, and thiolation . While some of the observed associations between changes in trace metals, microbiota composition, and disease condition may be no more than epiphenomenal, the critical role of safe and essential levels of trace metals in maintaining a healthy gut ecology must nevertheless be recognized. An interesting idea of employing certain members of the gut microbiota to reduce metal toxicity in humans was recently proposed (Monachese et al. 2012; Marco and Tachon 2013). L actobacilli and possibly other bacterial types used in the food industry or as probiotics have the ability to bind and sequester metals and prevent their entry into human organs . Such “bioremediation” of the human body using microbiota-modifying approaches has several advantages: • They do not require expensive technology or infrastructure. • They can be based on locally produced foods, such as yogurt made in the home or community. • Local acceptance is assured. This intervention strategy potentially represents an affordable option for bil- lions of people around the world who are being chronically exposed to toxic metals in their environment . The potential for the human micro- ulcerative colitis , and may be applicable to other diseases including infectious diseases. Oral Microbiome The human oral cavity is heavily colonized by microorganisms, including vi- ruses, protozoa, fungi, archaea, and bacteria. Unlike the commensal micro- biota found at other body sites, which seemingly live in harmony with the host, the normal microbiota of the mouth is responsible for the two most common 284 M. L. Ackland et al. diseases of humans: dental caries and periodontal diseases . It has long been recognized that caries is an infectious and transmissible disease that can be moderated by trace metal defi ciency or excess in the oral cavity. No spe- cifi c microorganisms o r properties of microorganisms are solely responsible for the initiation and progression of caries. Of the key bacteria in saliva sam- ples, mutans streptococci are probably the most cariogenic microorganisms because of two special features: (a) their high acidogenic and aciduric capacity and
