Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


caries. Of the key bacteria in saliva sam- ples, mutans streptococci are probably the most cariogenic microorganisms because of two special features: (a) their high acidogenic and aciduric capacity and (b) their ability to produce extracellular polysaccharides, resulting in the adhesion of dental plaque on tooth surfaces . Both processes can be affected by trace metals. Another important group of bacteria is the salivary lactobacilli, which indicate the presence of a caries-type oral environment and are predictors of the progression potential of the lesions . T race metal defi ciency and excess have been found to inhibit the growth of these and other plaque species . The strongest evidence for stimula- tory effects of trace metals on caries prevention comes from the anticalculus and anticaries effects, antibacterial activity, and antiplaque effi cacy of many trace metals which have been repeatedly shown in human and animal studies . Although a number of human studies have reported signifi cant positive associations between trace metal levels in teeth and saliva and dental caries (Blanusa et al. 1990; Burguera et al. 2002), there are still open questions regarding the mechanisms of pro-caries action and the effects of trace metals on the microorganisms in terms of caries promotion. Trace metals can infl uence the differentiation of oral mucosa (Meyer et al. 1981) and the aggregation and adhesion characteristics of dental caries-asso- ciated microorganisms . The oral microbiome is a unique system for understanding the role of trace metals on its ecology and how the microbiome affects the fate and effects of the metals. There is clearly a need for methodologies that can be used to test the cariogenic properties of the trace metals and how the forms of metals in saliva relate to the diversity and compo- sition of cariogenic bacteria in the oral cavity. Infl uence of Genetic Factors Some of the more common polymorphisms (> 5%) involve genes that also play a role in the immune response to infections (e.g., interleukin 6). There are also genes known to regulate toxicokinetics and toxicity of toxic metals, such as arsenic, mercury, and lead. The natural resistance-associated macrophage proteins (Nramp1 and 2) are proton-dependent solute carriers of divalent met- als such as Fe2+ and Mn2+ (Slc11a1 and 2). Their expression in both resting and microbicidal macrophages, which metabolize iron differently, raises ques- tions about the Nramp mechanism of Me2+ transport and its impact in distinct phenotypic
