Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and 2). Their expression in both resting and microbicidal macrophages, which metabolize iron differently, raises ques- tions about the Nramp mechanism of Me2+ transport and its impact in distinct phenotypic contexts . N RAMP1, vitamin-D receptor, and t umor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) gene polymorphisms have been associated with sus- ceptibility to infectious diseases, but the results have been inconsistent (Merza Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 285 et al. 2009). In addition to NRAMP, polymorphisms in other metal-related genes have been associated with toxicity effects of metals. For lead, the most signifi cant (and prevalent) gene is that encoding the enzyme δ-aminolevulinic dehydrase (ALAD). The ALAD protein is a signifi cant binding site for lead within the erythrocyte and thus regulates erythrocyte:plasma toxicokinet- ics for lead. A common polymorphism in the ALAD gene (G177C) can alter plasma Pb concentrations signifi cantly, by 1.66-fold . Another example is the gene that expresses metallothionein. Metallothioneins are a family of intracellular proteins that bind metals and may provide pro- tection against metal toxicity (e.g., zinc, copper, and cadmium). A study in Chinese populations found that a mutation in the gene that encodes MT1A (a Cd-binding form of the protein) was associated with signifi cant increases in blood cadmium and urinary β-2 microglobulin, which is a biomarker of renal toxicity . Gender, Metals, and Infections Gender (as distinct from genetics) is also associated with essential metal status, toxic metal levels, and infectious disease. In some cases this involves gender- specifi c differences in diet and behavior. Infectious disease incidence is often male biased. Two main hypotheses have been proposed to explain this obser- vation. The physiological hypothesis emphasizes differences in sex hormones and genetic architecture, whereas the behavioral hypothesis stresses gender- related differences in exposure. The population-level predictions of these hy- potheses have yet to be thoroughly tested in humans. After puberty, disease incidence is male biased in cutaneous and visceral l eishmaniasis, s chistoso- miasis, pulmonary tuberculosis, leptospirosis, meningococcal meningitis, and h epatitis A. Severe d engue is female-biased, and no clear pattern is evident for typhoid fever. For most diseases, male bias emerges during infancy, when behavior is unbiased but sex steroid levels transiently rise. Behavioral factors likely modulate male-female differences in some diseases (e.g., the leishmani- ases, tuberculosis, leptospirosis, or schistosomiasis) and age classes. The im- mune system is known to be biased by gender, with
