Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


likely modulate male-female differences in some diseases (e.g., the leishmani- ases, tuberculosis, leptospirosis, or schistosomiasis) and age classes. The im- mune system is known to be biased by gender, with genetics, hormonal status, and other factors contributing to male-female differences. As a result there are differences between men and women in terms of infection and severity of many infectious diseases as well as postinfection sequelae (McClelland and Smith 2011). To date, few studies have examined sex differences in immune response to metals. Silva et al. (2005) report on the effects of prenatal exposures of BALB/c mice to HgCl on the ontogeny of the immune system. Immune func- tion was assessed by collection of cells from lymph nodes, spleens, and thy- mus from postnatal day 11 through 60 and studied in male and female mice. Organ-specifi c effects were observed on maturation. At maturity, females and males differed in terms of effects: in females there was an overall decrease in 286 M. L. Ackland et al. ConA-stimulated cytokine release from cells ex vivo, whereas in males, there was an overall increase in release (both compared to unexposed mice of the same strain and gender). Similar gender-specifi c effects after in utero exposure to HgCl were reported by Pilones et al. (2009). Growing evidence indicates gender differences in susceptibility to disease infection and in response to metal exposure. However, limited attempts have been made to examine the relationships between these two factors in the patho- genesis of infectious diseases among males versus females. More studies are required to understand the basis of the differences in metal metabolism be- tween males and females. Impacts of Metals in the Environment on Infectious Diseases Mining, smelting, and widespread use of metals to support the expansion of human industrial activities have led to an exponential increase in the amounts of heavy metals that are released into the atmosphere, water, and soil. Anthropogenic inputs have overwhelmed the natural biogeochemical cycles of many elements in many ecosystems . As a consequence, all life forms on Earth are being exposed to a wide range of toxic metals in the environ- ment, which they might not have encountered previously in their evolutionary cycle. As a matter of necessity, many organisms have evolved unique mecha- nisms which allow them to survive and, in some instances, reduce the toxicity of metals in their environments. The extent to which such coping strategies can
