Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


have evolved unique mecha- nisms which allow them to survive and, in some instances, reduce the toxicity of metals in their environments. The extent to which such coping strategies can be used by pathogens to moderate the infl uence of new metal compounds on their interactions with human host is a matter that has received little study. Sources and Emissions of Toxic Metals Most of the available information on sources and emissions of toxic metals relates to mercury, lead, cadmium, and arsenic, which are emitted from both anthropogenic and natural sources. For these metals, information is available on geochemical cycling and pathways in the environment as well as on uptake into biota, including the food chain. The most recent and accurate information available is for m ercury. The major anthropogenic sources of Hg emissions at present and expected in the future derive from coal combustion, followed by release of mercury as a result of artisanal g old mining and production (Pacyna et al. 2010; UNEP 2013). As much as 2000 metric tons of mercury are emit- ted annually from anthropogenic sources, and similar amounts are being re- leased from natural sources, including the reemissions of mercury from land and water surfaces . Nonferrous metal smelting and other industrial processes are the main emission sources for the remainder of the abovementioned metals. Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 287 An important group of metals in the environmental context consists of other well-known metals, such as v anadium, nickel, copper, zinc, c hromium, silver, antimony, gold, thallium, rare earth elements (REEs), and the p latinum group of metals (PGMs). Major emission sources, applications, and exposure path- ways of all of the abovementioned metals are presented in Appendix 17.1, which also includes information on the possible impact of metals on the im- mune system as well as their antiviral and antimicrobial properties. As listed in Appendix 17.1, proximate sources of human exposure to toxic metals are not limited to direct consumption of contaminated food but can include inhalation of contaminated air and other specifi c practices (e.g., t obacco smoking) as a major source of exposure to lead and cadmium. Even though most countries have removed Pb additives from a utomotive fuels, crude oil still contains sub- stantial amounts of naturally occurring lead. As a result, some unleaded gaso- line may contain up to 15 mg/l of this element.
