Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


a utomotive fuels, crude oil still contains sub- stantial amounts of naturally occurring lead. As a result, some unleaded gaso- line may contain up to 15 mg/l of this element. It should be noted that emis- sions of many metals, particularly mercury, occur at local and regional scales, especially in the developing countries with high rates of endemic diseases, such as malaria, leishmaniasis, and dengue. Metal Emissions and Lung Infection Particulate matter exposures a re associated with increased risks for human in- fections, and this association is so rampant that, historically, particle-related disease was frequently, but erroneously, regarded as a variety of infection (e.g., coal workers’ pneumoconiosis was previously referred to as “miners’ con- sumption” and “miners’ phthisis”) . Once inhaled, particles are de- posited in the nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and distal lung. It is not by coincidence that the respiratory tract is the system most frequently infected after particulate exposure. Exposures to particles from mining and smelting, fossil fuel combustion, biomass burning, metallurgical works, transportation- related emissions, agricultural work, c igarette smoking, work, e nvironmental tobacco smoke (ETS), wood stoves and gas stoves, as well as ambient air pol- lution have all been associated with an increased risk for respiratory infec- tions . For instance, particulates from cigarette smoking, b iomass burning, mining, smelting, and ETS have been linked to an elevated risk for tuberculosis, atypical mycobacterial infections, and meningitis. One possible explanation for particle-related infections is that the surfaces of airborne par- ticulates, especially from anthropogenic sources, are enriched in essential trace elements. Particles deposited in the respiratory tract thus represent a reservoir of essential trace elements which the infective pathogens can exploit to meet their metabolic needs. In addition, particulate surfaces contain n onessential metals (mercury, cadmium, arsenic, beryllium, and manganese) which can in- crease the risk for infection through moderating the immune response. As an example, elevated levels of serum lead and mercury and low levels of zinc and selenium have been associated with recurrent wheezing in children (Razia 288 M. L. Ackland et al. et al. 2011). Children with recurrent wheezing are much more susceptible to r espiratory tract infections than healthy children, and trace metals could sig- nifi cantly infl uence the pathogenesis of the recurrent wheezing. Changes in energy sources (so-called energy mix), manufacturing, and new technologies are changing the physical and chemical characteristics of the and Pacyna 2001). In addition,
