Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


pathogenesis of the recurrent wheezing. Changes in energy sources (so-called energy mix), manufacturing, and new technologies are changing the physical and chemical characteristics of the and Pacyna 2001). In addition, we are experiencing a geographic shift in terms of where metals are emitted most intensively: from North America and Europe to Asia. These changes have resulted in signifi cant risk overlap in the develop- ing countries and have involved a juxtaposition of metal hazards from modern industries and the so-called traditional hazards typically associated with infec- tious diseases. Such risk overlap can contribute both directly and indirectly to global health disparities. Global Drivers of Change in Metal Exposure Climate Change The twentieth century has witnessed an era of unprecedented, large-scale an- thropogenic changes to the natural environment which have infl uenced the emergence and spread of infectious diseases. Recent studies (Jia et al. 2010; Li et al. 2012; Stern et al. 2012) have shown that climate change is already hav- ing a signifi cant impact on many aspects of the transport pathways, speciation, and cycling of trace elements in many ecosystems. How the overwhelming modifi cation of the natural cycles of the trace elements by human activities feeds into this global change/infectious disease link has not received much at- tention. In this regard, the effects of changes in trace metal levels (to defi ciency or subtoxic levels) on the establishment and spread of indirectly transmitted, vector-borne anthroponoses (e.g., m alaria, d engue fever, y ellow fever) has to be of special interest. We need to understand to what extent the trace metal nutriture in changing ecosystems can infl uence the vector–pathogen link in the transmission chain. In this sense, it would be good to know how the nonhuman life cycle of the pathogens would respond to changes in trace metal exposures that are driven by climate change. More generally, climatic change and heavy metal stress can infl uence vari- ous processes in plants, including growth, physiology, biochemistry, and yield, and can hence pose a threat to f ood security (see review by Rajkumar et al. 2013). Elevated atmospheric CO levels have been shown to enhance bio- mass production and metal accumulation in plants and have been linked to the ability of plants to support greater microbial populations and/or protect the microorganisms against the impacts of heavy metals (Li et al. 2010b; Guo et al. 2011; Kim and Kang 2011). Climatic
