Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of plants to support greater microbial populations and/or protect the microorganisms against the impacts of heavy metals (Li et al. 2010b; Guo et al. 2011; Kim and Kang 2011). Climatic change can infl uence metal bio- availability in soils and consequently affect plant growth by moderating the function and structure of plant roots and diversity and activity of rhizosphere Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 289 microbes (Sardans et al. 2008; Rajkumar et al. 2010). Better understanding of how plant–metal interactions respond to climatic change is essential in de- veloping high-yielding crops that can tolerate multistress conditions without accentuating the toxic metal levels and compromising future food security. Food Processing Another issue that affects human intake of both essential and toxic metals is food processing. Cooking can be a source of exposure to toxic metals (e.g., from the cooking water) as well as a cause of depletion of essential metals from food. Certain ceramic cookware, for example, has been associated with Pb exposure, and some cooking methods may deplete the essential metals in foods . Processing of grains including wheat, rice, and sugar substantially lowers their trace element concentrations. The process of milling rice and wheat removes the bran which contains the major portion of zinc (Borresen and Ryan 2014). Loss of trace elements in refi ning of wheat to produce white fl our results in a 78% loss of zinc, 16% loss in selenium, 86% loss of manganese, and 68% loss of copper; white sugar contains 40 times less zinc than raw sugar, and nearly 6 times less copper . Removal of the essential trace metals during food processing is likely to reduce the im- mune-boosting capacity of the diet and increase the consumer’s susceptibility to infectious diseases. Metals in Infant Nutrition An infant’s gut is particularly sensitive to colonization patterns as inherent in- testinal defense mechanisms are immature, and immature intestinal epithelial cells are known to have exaggerated infl ammatory responses to both commen- sal and pathogenic bacteria (Mshvildadze and Neu 2010). Since the core mi- crobiota formation is dependent on exposure to the microbes that fi rst colonize the g astrointestinal tract (“founder species”), the establishment of a “healthy” microbiota in the fi rst days of life after birth is expected to be critical for nor- mal development. It is expected that the trace metals status would be one of the important moderating
