Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


rst days of life after birth is expected to be critical for nor- mal development. It is expected that the trace metals status would be one of the important moderating factors that may reduce the normal commensal microbi- ota colonization and impair benefi cial stimulation of gastrointestinal mucosal development as well as innate and adaptive immune responses. During the fi rst one to two years of life, the microbiome of a healthy human infant evolves to- ward a typical adult microbiota (Palmer et al. 2007; Dave et al. 2012). Infants, in particular neonates, are reported to be at a higher risk from insuffi ciency of essential metals or from exposure to toxic levels of metals. The role of trace metals on the d ysbiosis and metabolic programming during this highly vulner- ably period in the development of their gut microbiome should be presumed to be important, but is unknown at this time. 290 M. L. Ackland et al. Recent studies have shown that human milk, instead of being sterile, pres- ents a continuous supply of commensal, mutualistic, and/or potentially probi- otic bacteria to the gut microbiome of an infant. These bacteria can contribute to the reduction of the incidence and severity of infections and maturation of the immune system in the breastfed infant, among other functions. The intro- duction of early f ormula feeding, either exclusively or in combination with continued breast-feeding, reduces or negates the protective benefi ts of breast- feeding, as is occuring in countries where mixed feeding practices in infants less than six months have become commonplace. The WHO has reported that only one-third of infants worldwide were exclusively breast-fed during the fi rst six months of life in 2009, the majority receiving some other f ood or fl uid in the early months . In terms of essential metals, levels in infant formulas have been reported to be from 3–100 times higher than the concen- trations found in breast milk, depending on the particular metal. For example, three times higher levels of z inc have been found in infant formulas (based on cow milk) than breast milk and 100 times higher levels of manganese in infant formulas (based on soy milk) (Aschner and Aschner 2005). The high concentrations, due to the fortifi cation of formulas with these essential metals, have been justifi ed in the past because of differences in their bioavailability in infant formulas compared
