Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


high concentrations, due to the fortifi cation of formulas with these essential metals, have been justifi ed in the past because of differences in their bioavailability in infant formulas compared to breast milk. However, currently there is less clar- ity, and the levels of fortifi cation need to be reassessed in light of the low intake of these elements in the breast-fed infant and the possible deleterious conse- quences of metal overload which could infl uence host infections (Ljung et al. 2011; Bornhorst et al. 2013) The high intake of zinc with infant formula may account for the difference in the gut microfl ora of breast- and formula-fed in- fants, and the differing microbiome phylotypes may account for the increased susceptibility of formula-fed infants to infectious agents. Metals in Fast Foods The gut microbiota of people in the Western World is signifi cantly different (re- duced in diversity) from that of people who live in rural villages in developing countries and are habituated to traditional lifestyles . This dif- ference is usually attributed to the fact that the great majority of ingredients in the industrially produced foods consumed in the West are absorbed in the upper part of the small intestine, and thus of limited benefi t to the small intestinal and large bowel microbiotas. Lack of proper nutrition, including safe and essential levels of trace metals for gut microbiota, has been implicated in dysfunction of gut ecology, dysbiosis, chronically elevated infl ammation, and the production and leakage of endotoxins through the various tissue barriers and hyperactiva- tion of the immune system (Mshvildadze and Neu 2010; Quigley 2013). In addition, heat- and storage-related treatments can result in the formation of the so-called advanced glycation end products and advanced lipoxidation end products in such foods as dairy products (especially powdered milk, which is Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 291 frequently used in industrially produced foods), deep-fried foods, grilled meat and poultry, smoked and cured foods, as well as coffee. Consumption of such foods, which are often the main constituents of fast foods, has been linked to infl ammation and immune system modulation . Fast f oods have been reported to provide concentrated calories but de- creased levels of micronutrients (Bowman and Vinyard 2004; Wimalawansa 2013). Regular consumption of such foods can induce a dysbiosis in the gut bacteria that synthesizes and converts a variety of compounds
