Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


levels of micronutrients (Bowman and Vinyard 2004; Wimalawansa 2013). Regular consumption of such foods can induce a dysbiosis in the gut bacteria that synthesizes and converts a variety of compounds to impact the physiology, immunity, and presumably the susceptibility or resistance of hu- man individuals to infection. Exposure to elevated levels of nonessential met- als and/or suboptimal amounts of essential trace metals due to consumption of fast foods clearly has the potential to impact the gut microbiota and suscepti- bility to infections in profound ways. Thus more research needs to be focused on this topic. Epigenetic Effects of Metals Epigenetics is a term that encompasses events in the genome which affect gene expression without direct changes in gene structure, such as deletion or muta- tion. These events can be heritable. During the early stages of pre- and postim- plantation development of the zygote, programmed silencing and/or activation of specifi c events is key to normal ontogeny (Christensen and Marsit 2011). DNA methylation is the most widely studied epigenetic marker. Epigenetic changes, which may be stable mechanisms or have some plasticity, are likely to emanate from the environment; thus it is important to characterize the role of environmental exposures in epigenetic alterations. Existing evidence that implicates the role of environmental factors on epigenetic changes comes from studies of diseases such as cancer and adverse reproductive/developmental events. A contribution of heavy metal emissions to human health may be medi- ated though epigenetic effects that affect susceptibility or response to infec- tion. The fl exibility of epigenetic responses is a critical mechanism of both innate and adaptive immune responses in which gene expression is rapidly altered to respond to the presence of an antigen or other stressor, as well as accomplishing the achievement of the mature immune response repertoire (Kondilis-Mangum and Wade 2013). Evidence of the epigenetic effects of metals on infection is illustrated by data which shows that Zn defi ciency in vitro increases interleukin (IL)-1β and TNF-α mRNA and protein, which is associated with increased accessibilities of IL-1β and TNF-α promoters in Zn-defi cient cells . The cellular basis of the chromatin-remodeling process induced by Z n defi ciency is, however, not clear. A rsenic is the most frequently studied metal, in terms of its effects on the methyl donor pool, as it is progressively metabolized to a mono- and a di- methyl species (see review by Reichard and Puga 2010).
