Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


in terms of its effects on the methyl donor pool, as it is progressively metabolized to a mono- and a di- methyl species (see review by Reichard and Puga 2010). Early life exposure to 292 M. L. Ackland et al. arsenic h as been linked to altered immune function in children in Bangladesh, where children exposed to arsenic via contaminated groundwater have an increased incidence of respiratory infections and reduced thymic function . Other metals for which epigenetic effects have been reported include nickel, c admium, and c hromium VI (Salnikow and Zhitkovich 2008; Arita and Costa 2009). Exposure to diesel exhaust particles, often enriched in heavy metals, is associated with an increase in global hypomethylation and hypermethylation of the promoter of several genes, including I FN-γ and FOXP3 (Liu et al. 2008; Brunst et al. 2013). Diesel exhaust particles were shown to induce COX-2 ex- pression through histone modifi cation of H4 near the COX-2 gene promoter . As IFN-γ and FOXP3 are involved in the immune response and COX-1 is proinfl ammatory, exposure of bronchial epithelium to metal- containing particulate matter may have an impact on susceptibility to respira- tory infection (see above). It is likely that other metals may have signifi cant epigenetic effects. Available information shows that pathogens and heavy metals can acti- vate or suppress gene expression through epigenetic modifi cations, and these changes can last throughout life . The epigenetic targets of some heavy metals are often similar to those of pathogens and include changes in (a) D NA methylation patterns, either at the global or the individual gene level; (b) the histone code, affecting histone methylation, acetylation, ubiqui- tination, and phophorylation; and (c) miRNA expression (see review by Ho et al. 2012). Whether these epigenetic changes are enhanced or suppressed during coexposure to metals and infective pathogens is unknown at the present time. Metalliferous Nanoparticles and Infections Nanotechnology has been applied in the food sector and is used for various purposes such as food supplements, functional food ingredients, and food packaging (Sonkaria et al. 2012; Chen et al. 2014). Opportunities to exploit and develop n anomaterials have resulted in a large number of patents world- wide. Nanomaterials can be found in the form of uncomplexed metals, inor- ganic metals, and carbon-based compounds. Inorganic nanoparticles of silver, t itanium, aluminium, and zinc oxide are used for numerous applications. Silver nanoparticles, for example, are utilized
