Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


of uncomplexed metals, inor- ganic metals, and carbon-based compounds. Inorganic nanoparticles of silver, t itanium, aluminium, and zinc oxide are used for numerous applications. Silver nanoparticles, for example, are utilized due to their antimicrobial properties. Silver zeolites are used in beverage containers (EFSA Panel on FEC 2011). However, concerns are rising about the hazardous risks that these may have on Sonkaria et al. 2012). To date, there is little information on the release of met- als from nanomaterials, largely due to the fact that there are no requirements for disclosure of nanotechnology use and the failure of agencies to develop rig- orous testing rules for specifi c applications. In Europe, for example, titanium nitride nanoparticles are intended to be used as an additive in polyethylene Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 293 terephthalate. In 2011 the European Food Safety Authority evaluated the safety of these n anoparticles and concluded that there is no safety concern for the consumer if the nanoparticulate substance used does not exceed 20 mg/kg for a particular application (EFSA Panel on FEC 2012). In addition to applications in commercial products, nanotherapy aimed at using the chemical and physical characteristics of metallic nanomaterials for the treatment of infectious disease at the molecular level constitutes an active area of research. The small-sized particles are characterized by a high surface area, unique physicochemical properties, and surface charges which enhance their effective antimicrobial action . Antibacterial nanopar- ticles consisting of silver, gold, iron, zinc, copper, and titanium or their oxides have been featured in a number of studies and have been found to be effective against S taphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and H IV virus (Sundar and Prajapati 2012). The antimicrobial mechanisms of nanomaterials are basically unknown but the commonly proposed pathogenic impacts are said to be dominated by infl ammation-driven effects, including photocatalytic production of reactive oxygen species (which damage cellular and viral components), degradation of the bacterial cell wall or membrane, in- terruption of energy transduction, inhibition of enzyme activity, and DNA syn- thesis (Weir et al. 2008; Sundar and Prajapati 2012). Metal oxide nanoparticles have been shown to have different infl ammatory footprints, implying different hazards in terms of pathology, risks, and risk severity . The availability of metals in nanoparticles is infl uenced by the zeta potential, solu- bility, the immune response associated with infl ammation and hypoxic con- ditions,
