Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and risk severity . The availability of metals in nanoparticles is infl uenced by the zeta potential, solu- bility, the immune response associated with infl ammation and hypoxic con- ditions, as well as degradation of macromolecules within infl ammatory foci (Nizet and Johnson 2009; Chao et al. 2012). The limited information available suggests that current applications of metal-based nanomaterials can infl uence susceptibility to infectious diseases, judging by the effects of different metals on infective pathogens. Most of the studies relate to engineered nanomaterials, and there is currently little information on the effect of natural nanomaterials (“colloids”) on disease infection. Emerging Metals Emerging metals constitute another driver of change in metal exposure. Among the rare earth metals (Table 17.1), four deserve special attention relative to re- ported immune and/or microbial effects: c erium, g adolinium, l anthanum, and yttrium. Cerium has been reported to have both immunomodulatory and di- rect antimicrobial effects. Cerium nitrate has been used as an antibiofi lm agent on hospital catheters and shown to signifi cantly reduce b iofi lm formation by Candida albicans . Additionally, cerium helps to restore cell-mediated immunity among immunosuppressed burn patients (Peterson et al. 1985). Gadolinium chloride stimulates the innate immune system and, in particular, modulates macrophage cell population. It appears to signal through 294 M. L. Ackland et al. TLR4 and TLR7 receptors on macrophages, increasing the production of sev- eral profi brotic or proinfl ammatory cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors (Wermuth and Jimenez 2012). However, pretreatment of rats with g adolinium chloride prior to bile duct ligation can also reduce Kupffer cell numbers and function in the liver as a means of reducing the risk of septic shock (Jones et al. 2013). Exposure of mice to lanthanum chloride inhibits production of proinfl ammatory (IL-1 and TNF-α) cytokines . The metal appears to act by inhibiting activation of NF-kappa B. Y ttrium exposure has been reported to elevate humoral immunity while concomitantly producing a defi cit of CD8+ T lymphocytes . Both traditional as well as comparatively new groups of metals (e.g., rare earth metals, titanium) con- tribute to this new category of human exposure. Information on immunomodu- lation relative to risk of infection by these compounds is becoming available (Appendix 17.1). Direct Impacts of the Environment on Host–Parasite Interactions From an ecological perspective, the processes by which metals in the environ- ment could possibly impact host–pathogen interactions in a
