Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


(Appendix 17.1). Direct Impacts of the Environment on Host–Parasite Interactions From an ecological perspective, the processes by which metals in the environ- ment could possibly impact host–pathogen interactions in a direct manner in- clude (a) the changing pathogenicity of parasites and the emergence and spread of drug resistance and (b) changing of host resistance to the pathogen. Metals and Drug Resistance in Bacteria Antimicrobial resistant infections are considered the most critical global and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Newly emerging resistant strains are increasingly likely to be multidrug resistant . For this reason, identifi cation of pressures that contribute to the dissemination of resistance is a high priority in biomedical and basic research. Metals may be one source of pressure for resistance selection and dissemi- nation. There is evidence for co-packaging of metal- and drug-resistant genes on transmissible genetic elements among bacteria . It has been suggested that environmental conditions of increased metal con- centrations of both toxic and essential metals could contribute to the emer- gence and spread of drug resistance within environmental microbial systems . Specifi c to methicillin-resistant S . aureus, Cavaco et al. (2010) reported that c admium and zinc drive co-selection for methicillin resistance in S. aureus through horizontal transfer of plasmids containing both mec and czr (Cd/Zn-resistance) genes. For this reason, there is increased con- cern that antimicrobial-resistance genes function as environmental pollutants . Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 295 Modifi cation of Host Tolerance The human host employs two nonmutually exclusive strategies in response to an infection: the ability to limit parasite burden (resistance) and the ability to limit the harm caused by a given burden of parasites (tolerance). From an ecological perspective, resistance protects the host at the expense of the para- site, whereas tolerance saves the host from harm without having any direct negative effects on the parasite (Ayres and Schneider 2012). This distinction is useful because it recognizes the important fact that hosts can sometimes be quite healthy despite high parasite burdens or, conversely, die with parasite always well correlated (Schneider and Ayres 2008; Ayres and Schneider 2012; Medzhitov et al. 2012). Although these two components together determine how well a host is protected against the effects of parasitism, studies of human host defense have to date focused primarily on resistance; the possibility of tol- erance and its implications have been largely ignored .
