Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


against the effects of parasitism, studies of human host defense have to date focused primarily on resistance; the possibility of tol- erance and its implications have been largely ignored . The role that trace metal homeostasis might play in human tolerance mechanisms has been completely overlooked. The mechanisms by which metal homeostasis increases the host’s tolerance to invading pathogens have yet to be explored in detail. The following mecha- nisms may be involved: • The production of reactive oxygen species and toxic free radicals. • Inducible mechanisms such as the heme/HO-1 system (defi cient for the Hmox1 gene), which has been shown to provide tolerance for Plasmodium and polymicrobial infections (Seixas et al. 2009; Larsen et al. 2010) The expression of the Fe-sequestering protein ferritin H chain in mice and ferritin in humans has also been found to be associated with reduced tissue damage irrespective of pathogen burden (confer tolerance) following infection of mice with P lasmodium (Gozzelino et al. 2012). • Activation of toll-like receptors, which can induce the production of cytoprotective and tissue repair factors to maintain epithelial integrity and homeostasis . • Dietary imbalance in trace metal intake (Ayres and Schneider 2009). • Phagocytosis-dependent microbial containment (Deretic and Levine 2009; Rashed 2011; Chifman et al. 2012). When these and related mechanisms are suffi cient to prevent major disruptions in physiological functions of the host after exposure to a parasite, infections remain asymptomatic. The interaction of immune defense and tolerance mechanisms in protect- ing the human host against the pathophysiological effects of parasites has not been studied . What is clear is that morbidity and mortality may result from the failure of tolerance mechanisms, even in the 296 M. L. Ackland et al. presence of effective resistance. This would normally be indicated by hosts that present different morbidity or mortality profi les at comparative parasit- emia. The distinction between failed resistance and failed tolerance is criti- cally important in terms of the choice of therapeutic strategies. When failed tolerance is the underlying factor, boosting immunity and reducing pathogen burden (using drugs) may be ineffective, whereas enhancing tolerance (e.g., with trace metal intervention) may have salutary effects. Drug interventions that target the tolerance pathways may also be more desirable when immune defenses are either ineffi cient, compromised, or cause excessive i mmunopa- thology. Boosting tissue tolerance should be a particularly useful strategy in the case of pandemic diseases that
