Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


when immune defenses are either ineffi cient, compromised, or cause excessive i mmunopa- thology. Boosting tissue tolerance should be a particularly useful strategy in the case of pandemic diseases that cause morbidity and mortality worldwide, such as malaria, tuberculosis, and HIV—infectious diseases for which patho- gen control through v accination or antimicrobial drugs is currently unattain- able . Trace metal-related intervention holds some promise in this regard. New Approaches to Epidemiological Studies Whole-genome methods have led to the unprecedented discovery of robust associations between genetic markers and susceptibility to disease and have improved the understanding of infectious disease biology by revealing the cru- cial host–pathogen interaction sites (Khor and Hibberd 2012). Success in map- ping the human genome and the realization that genetics can only account for a limited fraction of the etiology of diseases has led to the development of the complementary concept of the “e xposome,” defi ned as the measure of all the exposures of an individual during a lifetime and how those exposures relate to health (Buck Louis and Sundaram 2012). Exposomics (the study of the expo- some) focuses on simultaneous assessment of exposures that may originate from external and internal sources. External exposures may be from the en- vironment, diet, or behavior, whereas internal environmental exposures stem from bodily functions and processes that govern homeostasis. Assessment of internal exposures focuses on chemicals and b iomarkers and relies primarily on high-throughput molecular “omics” technologies: genomics, metabonom- ics, lipidomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics. Strategies in internal expo- sure assessment involve the use of (a) biomarkers to determine exposure, effect of exposure, disease progression, and susceptibility factors; (b) technologies that generate large amounts of data; and (c) advanced informatics to fi nd sta- tistical associations between exposures, effect of exposures, and other factors such as genetics with disease (Miller and Jones 2014). External exposures, in contrast, involve measurements related to environmental stressors using common approaches, such as survey instruments, geographic mapping and remote sensing technologies, direct reading instruments, personal exposure sensors, and laboratory-based analysis . Exposomics thus Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 297 represents a new and exciting approach to improve, integrate, and consolidate exposure data for use in e nvironment-wide association studies to identify as- of response, or patterns of disease. Progress in the study of the nexus of trace metals and infectious diseases will c learly require new research paradigms for transforming
