Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


identify as- of response, or patterns of disease. Progress in the study of the nexus of trace metals and infectious diseases will c learly require new research paradigms for transforming how we think sign; and new strategies for collecting and interpreting data. Exposome repre- sents a good framework for assessing the effects of c oexposure to metals and infective pathogens in that the paradigm is aimed at (a) accurate and reliable measurement of many exposures in the external environment, (b) measuring a wide range of biological responses in the internal environment, and (c) ad- dressing the dynamic and life course nature of the exposure (Miller and Jones 2014). Exposome adopts a holistic approach to understanding the environmen- tal determinants of disease, the mechanism by which these exposures interact with lifestyle behaviors, and delays in the manifestation of effects. Building the exposome for metals and pathologies of infectious diseases will require an integration of approaches, including environmental measurements and vali- dated biomarkers. Below we propose approaches that could be used to address some of the major gaps in our knowledge of how metals impact on infectious disease within the exposome framework. We emphasize that many challenges still remain in developing the exposome concept into a workable approach for epidemiological research . Longitudinal and Cross-Sectional Studies in Areas with Overlapping Risks Many parts of the world experience coincident exposures to trace metal defi - ciency/toxicity and endemic communicable diseases. High prevalence rates of As p oisoning associated with high levels of arsenic in groundwater have been reported in many areas that have a high incidence of communicable diseases. Similar opportunities exist with respect to mercury (artisanal mining commu- nities), l ead (communities around base metal mining and s melting operations), and selenium (communities where soils are highly enriched in this element). The fact that soils with unusual concentrations of toxic metals are depleted in zinc and other microelements could provide an opportunity to explore the com- bined effects of Zn defi ciency and toxic metal exposure on the pathogenesis of infectious diseases. Different types of study design offer the possibility of collecting exposure information from candidate communities: • A cross-sectional study could be used to collect exposure data from a few people in great detail and determine what additional information is needed to validate hypothesized exposure-biomarker relationships. 298 M. L. Ackland et al. • Case control studies could be used to look
