Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


in great detail and determine what additional information is needed to validate hypothesized exposure-biomarker relationships. 298 M. L. Ackland et al. • Case control studies could be used to look at exposures that have oc- curred relatively recently, when no relevant biologic samples may be particularly relevant. • A cohort study (involving a group with a common set of characteristics over time) could be considered the gold standard in assessing exposure characteristics to ascertain the infl uence of metals on disease infection. Inhalation Exposures to Toxic Metals and Infectious Disease The lung is a unique microbiome for exposomic study. Real time modeling of exposure to airborne metals from pollutants using technologies that track the absorption and distribution of inhaled metals from airborne particulate matter within the body would give novel insights into how metals interact with the body and its microbiome at different interfaces. Data from such studies would provide information about how potentially toxic metals may infl uence respira- tory and other infectious diseases. Biomarkers that Provide Better Representation of Body Metal Status Many of the body compartments that are sampled to provide estimates of body these include, for example, blood, urine, hair, feces, sweat, and saliva. The “blood exposome” and its connection to disease was recently explored using human blood concentrations for 1,561 small molecules and metals along with their sources, evidence of chronic disease risks, and numbers of metabolic pathways . Similar studies could be done with the other biological samples. The resulting data could then be combined and metabolic profi ling (m etabonomics/m etabolomics) used to defi ne an individual’s meta- bolic phenotype, which is infl uenced by metal exposure, d iet, l ifestyle, geno- type, and disease pathology; this could also reveal intermediate biomarkers for disease risk that refl ect adaptive response to exposure. Implementation of such exposomic research will require the development and refi nement of analytic methods capable of handling the diverse array of biomakers and also other ex- posures for which there are no known or measurable biomarkers. Such analytic approaches can lead to a more comprehensive understanding of trace metal sta- tus in the context of environmental exposures and how changes in trace metal status relate to human health across the lifespan. Use of Stable Isotopes to Study Uptake and Distribution of Metals by the Body over Time In biomedical research, r adioactive trace metals are fi rst combined with other
