Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


lifespan. Use of Stable Isotopes to Study Uptake and Distribution of Metals by the Body over Time In biomedical research, r adioactive trace metals are fi rst combined with other elements to form chemical compounds. The labeled compounds are taken in- ternally, either orally or intravenously. Once administered to the patient (or Metals in the Environment as Risk Factors for Infectious Diseases 299 volunteer), the radioactive compounds are localized to specifi c organs or cel- lular receptors. This characteristic behavior makes it possible to determine the translocation of a metal to the infected organ(s) as well as to image the extent of a disease process in the body. Since these images are based on cellular func- tion and physiology, rather than on physical changes in the tissue anatomy, they provide important insights on actual metabolic cycle and pharmacokinet- ics of an element. R adioisotopes can thus be used to assess the effect of disease state on systemic redistribution of a trace metal. A mass balance of the admin- istered radionuclide can be used to estimate the b ioavailability and absorption rate across the gastrointestinal tract. Because of concerns for health effects of the radionuclide, dietary exposure studies increasingly rely on stable isotopes of the elements. The diet (or food component) is spiked with a known stable isotope and the changes in the isotope fi ngerprint are monitored to estimate the excretion and bodily retention rates. This method has been used with success to estimate dietary exposure to zinc, lead, mercury, and other metals with more than one abundant stable isotope. The identifi cation of peptides that result from posttranslational modifi ca- tions is important in understanding normal pathways of cellular regulation as well as assessing exposure and identifying damage from a toxic metal. Because of their low abundance in proteomes, effective detection of modifi ed peptides by mass spectrometry typically requires enrichment to eliminate false identifi - cations. Polacco et al. (2011) described a new method of high-resolution m ass spectrometry for identifying peptides with Hg-containing adducts based on the infl uence of mercury’s seven stable isotopes on peptide isotope distributions. They showed that the pattern of peak heights in isotope distributions from primary mass spectrometry single scans was able to identify Hg adducts with sensitivity and specifi city greater than 90%. Summing peptide isotope distribu- tions across multiple scans improved specifi city to 99.4% and sensitivity above 95%, which
