Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


to identify Hg adducts with sensitivity and specifi city greater than 90%. Summing peptide isotope distribu- tions across multiple scans improved specifi city to 99.4% and sensitivity above 95%, which made it possible to detect unexpected Hg modifi cations. Polacco et al. (2011) suggest that the method can also be used to detect several less com- mon elements, including the essential element, selenium, as selenocysteine in peptides. This study and others with radioisotopes suggest that the isotopes of metals (radioactive or stable) can be an important tool (“isotopeomics”) in exposome research. For a discussion on the applicaton of isotopes for analysis of metal body distribution, see Maret et al. (this volume). Conclusions In this chapter we have tried to provide insights into current knowledge and gaps in understanding of the interplay between trace metals in the environment and disease infection. The contributions of metal defi ciencies to the global burden of infectious diseases is substantial for zinc and iron but less defi ned for other metals. How emerging metals will relate to emerging pathogens, and 300 M. L. Ackland et al. hence infl uence the disease burden, is a matter that deserves further research. Despite considerable research that is taking place separately on trace metals and infectious pathogens, little is currently known about the interactions be- where direct coexposure occurs. A number of global trends have been identi- fi ed that have the potential to upset the natural host–pathogen–metal nexus, including climate change, Western-style food processing, increasing reliance on infant formula, consumption of fast foods, and commercialization of prod- ucts with metalliferous n anomaterials. From an ecological perspective, the two main processes by which the environment can directly impact host–pathogen interactions are (a) the changing pathogenicity of parasites with the emergence and spread of d rug resistance and (b) the changing of h ost resistance to the pathogen. The specifi c mechanisms involved in each process are essentially unknown. In many parts of the world, the levels of trace metals in soils and local food chain are closely associated with the body burden of the metals and sometimes the health of local communities. Failure to ascertain the environmental component of disease etiology stems, to a large extent, from limitations in our ability to assess the environmental exposures (which have traditionally been measured using questionnaires and geographical mapping) and tackle multiple exposures. A new exposure para- digm is needed that can
