Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


fusnI F gnicuder lacimehc ,sresal derarfni :esU muibrettY gnidnib AND aiv ytivitca sserts ,leets sselniats ,serafl yoced ,tnega )bY( seguag detroper evah sexelpmoc )III(uL noitamrofni tneicfi fusnI F evitcarfer hgih ,srotceted nacs :esU muitetuL ytivitca lairetcabitna rof stsoh etalatnat muitetul ,ssalg xedni )uL( srohpsohp Methods and Technologies for Analyzing Trace Metals in Biological Systems Emerging Strategies in Metalloproteomics Peter-Leon Hagedoorn Abstract The impact of changing metal ion concentrations on infection with a pathogenic mi- croorganism has been established in several cases. To understand the molecular basis of the interplay between metals in the host and the pathogen in infectious diseases, metalloproteomics may prove to be a very powerful approach. Metalloproteomics is the comprehensive analysis of all metal-binding and metal-containing proteins in a bio- logical sample. Strategies in metalloproteomics can be divided into experimental and computer-based approaches. Samples that have been analyzed using metalloproteomics strategies are cell lysates, subcellular fractions, and recombinantly expressed proteins from structural genomics platforms. Samples can be enriched in metal-binding protein by using immobilized metal i on affi nity chromatography (IMAC). Subsequently, m etalloproteins have been separated using either 2D electrophoresis or 2D l iquid chromatography (LC). Resolved proteins have been further analyzed for metals and protein content. I nductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), X-ray absorbance or fl uorescence and autoradi- ography of radioactive metal isotopes have been used to determine the metal content, and different soft ionization mass spectrometry techniques and S DS-PAGE have been used to determine or quantify protein content. Computer-based strategies have been developed to predict metalloproteomes from genomes based on information from litera- ture resources and different genomic and protein structural databases. Many of the methods presented here are comprehensive in nature. The interplay of computer-based and experimental strategies in metalloproteomics will signifi cantly advance the fi eld in the near future. Introduction The term m etallome was originally introduced by the Oxford professor R. J. P. Williams to refer to the free metal ion pool in the cell . Today, the metallome is defi ned more broadly (even covering nonmetal elementals) and can be viewed as the comprehensive analysis (structure, function, and 312 P.-L. Hagedoorn interactions) of all metals and metal species in a cell or tissue type (Mounicou et al. 2009). This includes semi-metals (e.g., Se), free metal ions, metal–DNA interactions, and metalloproteins. Metalloproteomics, on the other hand, is the comprehensive analysis of all metal-binding and metal-containing proteins in
