Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


al. 2009). This includes semi-metals (e.g., Se), free metal ions, metal–DNA interactions, and metalloproteins. Metalloproteomics, on the other hand, is the comprehensive analysis of all metal-binding and metal-containing proteins in a biological sample. Thus, it is a subset of the metallome. Strategies in metalloproteomics can be divided into experimental and computer-based approaches. Experimental approaches usually involve a com- bination of p rotein separation and metal analysis techniques (Figure 18.1). Computer-based approaches involve bioinformatics tools to predict, ideally, the whole metalloproteome of an organism or group of organisms based on • Cell lysate • Subcellular fraction Sample • Recombinantly expressed proteins • IMAC Pre- fractionation • Native or denaturing 2D-PAGE Protein • 2D-HPLC separation • (LA)-ICP-MS • XRF/HT-XAS Metal • Autoradiography analysis • Colorimetric/luminometric • LC-ESI-MS • MALDI-TOF MS Protein • SDS-PAGE analysis Figure 18.1 S chematic overview of experimental metalloproteomic strategies. IMAC: immobilized metal ion affi nity chromatography; 2 D-PAGE: two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; 2D-HPLC: two-dimensional high performance liq- uid chromatography; ( LA)-ICP-MS: (laser ablation) inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry; X RF: X-ray fl uorescence; HT–X AS: high throughput–X-ray absorbance spectroscopy; LC-ESI-MS: liquid chromatography– electrospray ionization–mass spec- trometry; M ALDI-TOF MS: matrix assisted laser desorption–time of fl ight mass spec- trometry; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Emerging Strategies in Metalloproteomics 313 genomic information, protein structural information, and biochemical infor- mation available in databases. In this chapter, several experimental and computer-based strategies are pre- sented that have emerged in recent years. In addition, relevant biochemical in- formation is presented that has been obtained using these methods, and specifi c advantages and disadvantages of the different methods are discussed. Experimental Metalloproteomics Metal-Binding Protein Fractionation Using Immobilized Metal Ion Affi nity Chromatography (IMAC) IMAC is well known, in the nickel ion bound form, for the isolation of his- tagged proteins. IMAC can be used for other applications as well (Cheung et al. 2012). The method is based on a resin that contains metal ion-chelating groups, such as nitrilotriacetic acid or iminodiacetic acid. Such materials can be charged with different metal ions in a manner that still makes coordination by amino acid residues from metal binding proteins possible. These proteins with high affi nity to the chelated metal ions bind and can be eluted using a pH gradient or a competitive ligand, such as EDTA or imidazole. IMAC has been used to enrich metal ion-binding proteins for proteomic investigations. In one instance, Ni-IMAC
