Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


eluted using a pH gradient or a competitive ligand, such as EDTA or imidazole. IMAC has been used to enrich metal ion-binding proteins for proteomic investigations. In one instance, Ni-IMAC was used in combination with 2 D-PAGE to identify Ni-binding proteins that may be related to metal-specifi c allergic contact der- matitis . Another example is the combination of Ni- and Co-IMAC in combination with mass spectrometry (MS) to identify putative Ni- and Co-binding proteins from Streptococcus pneumoniae . In a metalloproteomic workfl ow, IMAC can be used prior to further sepa- ration with 2D-PAGE or 2D-LC and subsequent protein identifi cation. The advantage of IMAC is that it is relatively inexpensive and straightforward and can be implemented in high-throughput liquid-handling workfl ows. Important disadvantages are the occurrence of false positives (e.g., histidine-rich pro- teins) and false negatives (e.g., metal-containing proteins). Methods Based on Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) ICP-MS i s a powerful metal analysis technique that is used as a standard tech- nique in trace element analysis. The technique is based on the ionization of a sample by introducing it into an ICP, where it vaporizes and is broken down into atoms, of which many are ionized to form singly charged cations. Ions are subsequently transferred via an interface to a mass spectrometer. The interface is necessary to change the ion beam from the atmospheric pressure of the ICP to the high vacuum of the MS. Metals are identifi ed based on their masses and 314 P.-L. Hagedoorn isotopic distribution. The method is sensitive and has a large dynamic range for many metals and other elements. One inherent problem of ICP-MS is the occurrence of isobaric interferences originating from elements in the sample matrix or the ICP gas, e.g., 56Fe (m = 55.93494) and 40Ar16O (m = 55.95729). High-resolution ICP-MS allows better separation of the different metal iso- topes and prevents most isobaric interferences. ICP-MS has been used in quantitative proteomics by employing metal-coded affi nity tags, which consist of three parts: (a) a metal chelate complex consisting of 1,4,7,10-tetraazacy- clododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid (DOTA) coordinating a lanthanide, (b) an affi nity anchor for purifi cation, and (c) a reactive group for the reaction with amino acids to label proteins . Below, two different strate- gies are presented for metalloproteomics using ICP-MS. 2D Gel Electrophoresis – Laser Ablation ICP-MS Laser ablation ICP-MS (LA-ICP-MS) offers the possibility of directly analyz-
