Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


proteins . Below, two different strate- gies are presented for metalloproteomics using ICP-MS. 2D Gel Electrophoresis – Laser Ablation ICP-MS Laser ablation ICP-MS (LA-ICP-MS) offers the possibility of directly analyz- ing m etalloproteins following 1D or 2D-PAGE. This technique is based on the use of a focused laser beam to ablate part of the sample, which is transferred to the ICP using a continuous argon gas stream; the elemental ions are then ana- lyzed by MS. Becker et al. (2004) used LA-ICP-MS to analyze the yeast mi- tochondrial proteome for phosphorus, sulfur, copper, zinc, and iron. Samples were separated by Blue Native PAGE in the fi rst dimension and S DS-PAGE in the second. Two gels were produced in parallel: one analyzed for protein phos- phorylation sites using M ALDI-FTICR-MS; the other analyzed with LA-ICP- MS. This method offers primarily qualitative identifi cation of metalloproteins and can provide element ratio, whereby the S content can be used as a measure of the protein amount. LA-ICP-MS analysis of the same gel would require ICP-MS measurements during the process the gel is destroyed. However, ICP-MS has the advantage that it provides a multi-elemental analysis, and that nonmetal elements, such as sulfur, can be used to estimate the amount of protein. LA-ICP-MS can be applied to a biological tissue directly and used to detect multiple different metals simultaneously. However, it has the disadvantage of being destructive to the biological sample and has a detection limit in the μM range for copper and zinc. 2D Liquid Chromatography – ICP-MS A successful metalloproteomic workfl ow resulted in the fi nding that protein- folding location is used as a natural strategy to regulate metal ion binding in proteins of the cupin family in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803 . The workfl ow was based on p rotein separation using 2D-LC and subsequent analysis of each fraction with ICP-MS for metals and Emerging Strategies in Metalloproteomics 315 SDS-PAGE for proteins. The metal distribution is carefully aligned with the distribution of proteins after SDS-PAGE by using principal component analy- sis. The advantage of this method is that multiple different metals can be ana- lyzed simultaneously and considerable fl exibility in the separation is possible by changing LC techniques. The 2D-LC approach generates a large number of samples that have to be analyzed by ICP-MS and SDS-PAGE. Cvetkovic et al. (2010) used a combination of 2D-LC, high-throughput tandem mass
