Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


The 2D-LC approach generates a large number of samples that have to be analyzed by ICP-MS and SDS-PAGE. Cvetkovic et al. (2010) used a combination of 2D-LC, high-throughput tandem mass spectrometry, and ICP-MS to identify the m etalloproteome of the thermophilic archaeon P yrococcus furiosus. The organism was found to incorporate more metals in its proteins than anticipated, as Pb-, Mn-, Mo-, U-, and V-containing proteins were found. However, the incorporation of lead and u ranium was found to be only substoichiometric; that is, only 0.01 U atom per ferritin (Pf0742) monomer . These data, together with a preliminary analysis of the metalloproteomes of E scherichia coli and Sulfolobus solfataricus by the same approach, led Cvetkovic et al. to conclude that the microbial metalloproteome is largely uncharacterized. The method employed by Cvetkovic et al. is laborious and does not appear to be suitable for the analysis of a large number of different biological samples (e.g., different microbial growth conditions). Multielement detection by ICP-MS is powerful, because it allows for the detection of metals that were not anticipated by the re- searcher. This method is a good starting point to explore the metalloproteome of a particular (micro-)organism. Methods Based on Radioactive Metal Isotopes Radioactive metal isotopes have great potential in metalloproteomics, as they offer superior sensitivity as well as the possibility of imaging m etalloproteins and quantifying metal levels. Table 18.1 summarizes suitable radioactive iso- topes for metalloproteomics based on their potential for imaging and relatively short half-life. Table 18.1 Metal radioisotopes with potential for metalloproteomics. The selection criteria are: t between 2 and 100 hours; suitable β- abundance and energy. 1/2 Radionuclide Half-life time (hours) 56Mn 2.6 65Ni 2.5 64Cu 12.7 67Cu 61.8 69Zn 13.8 99Mo 66.0 187W 23.8 316 P.-L. Hagedoorn Metal Isotope Native Radio Autography in Gel Electrophoresis (MIRAGE) MIRAGE is a metalloproteomics technique that involves four steps: 1. Labeling of target proteins with a radioisotope. 2. Separation of intact holoproteins using native isoelectric focusing, fol- lowed by Blue Native PAGE in the second dimension. 3. Spot visualization and quantifi cation using autoradiography. 4. Protein identifi cation by tandem mass spectrometry after in-gel trypsin digestion. Step 1 can be achieved simply by growing a microorganism in a medium con- taining a radioactive metal isotope. The advantage of MIRAGE is that on a single 2D-PAGE gel, all proteins which contain a particular metal ion can be visualized (Figure 18.2).
