Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


con- taining a radioactive metal isotope. The advantage of MIRAGE is that on a single 2D-PAGE gel, all proteins which contain a particular metal ion can be visualized (Figure 18.2). Furthermore by quantifying the beta emission from the radioisotopes, it is possible to obtain absolute quantities of the metal that is associated to a protein. Obtaining absolute quantities is challenging in con- ventional proteomic techniques, and the term quantitative proteomics nearly always refers to relative quantities. The main disadvantage of this technique is that one can detect only one type of metal at a time. This is especially interest- ing for researchers who are interested in a particular metal, rather than all types of metals at the same time. Protein identifi cation by MS/MS typically results in several overlapping proteins for each metal-containing spot. Using the E. coli genome annotation, the proteins relevant to the metal under investigation can be selected. MIRAGE has previously been used to determine the soluble Cu, Fe, and Zn proteome of E. coli and the Mo and W proteomes of P . furiosus. MIRAGE in- vestigation of the soluble Cu proteome of E . coli showed that the multicopper oxidase CueO is the only detectable Cu protein. CueO is a multicopper oxidase responsible for the oxidation of Cu+ to Cu2+. Scavenging cytoplasmic free cop- per has been proposed as a possible physiological role of CueO (Sevcenco et al. 2009a). The soluble Fe proteome of E. coli was found to be dominated by just three different proteins: 90% of the Fe was associated with superoxide dismutase, f erritin, and b acterioferritin . The Zn pro- teome of E. coli experiencing Zn stress was dominated by ZraP, a putative Zn storage protein . MIRAGE investigation of the effect of m olybdenum on the W proteome of P. furiosus revealed that the organism exhibits a strong preference for W over Mo incorporation in its enzymes, even when the intracellular concentration of molybdenum was higher than t ungsten (Sevcenco et al. 2009b; Sevcenco et al. 2010). The occurrence of numerous overlapping proteins in the spots following native-native 2D-PAGE can be resolved by improving the resolution of the native-native 2D-PAGE; for example, by using a more narrow pH range in the isoelectric focusing step or by employing pre-fractionation using other pro- tein separation techniques. Quantitative data on the protein levels will provide Emerging Strategies in Metalloproteomics 317 Z Log10 (intensity)
