Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


the isoelectric focusing step or by employing pre-fractionation using other pro- tein separation techniques. Quantitative data on the protein levels will provide Emerging Strategies in Metalloproteomics 317 Z Log10 (intensity) Y 6.2 6.0 SodB X 5.8 5.6 Dps 5.4 KatE Bfr 5.2 AcnA FdoH 4.2 40 CodA Fur Ftn KatE FumA, FumB First d im 0 KatE pH ension, m m Bfr XdhD 120 30 Sec o nd di m 0 ensio n , mm LMW 7.1 HMW Figure 18.2 3 D image of 59Fe–MIRAGE of E. coli soluble protein extract (575 μg protein) obtained from cells grown in 6 μM Fe . AcnA: aconitase A; Bfr: bacterioferritin; CodA: cytosine deaminase; Dps: DNA-binding protein from starved cells; FdoH: formate dehydrogenase-O iron-sulfur cluster binding subunit; Ftn: ferritin; FumA: fumarase A; FumB: fumarase B; Fur: ferric uptake regulator; KatE: hy- droperoxidase HPII; SodB: Fe s uperoxide dismutase; XdhD: xanthine dehydrogenase- like protein Mo and iron-sulfur cluster containing subunit. Reprinted with permission reserved. valuable information on the metal/protein stoichiometry. At present, the abso- lute quantifi cation of proteomes is diffi cult and laborious, although fi rst studies into this area have recently appeared . 2D-Denaturing, PAGE, Western Blotting, Phosphor Imaging Radioactive metal isotopes have been reported many times in the literature to identify and isolate metalloproteins. A relatively early approach to identify Zn- binding proteins in a comprehensive manner was published by Katayama et al. (2002). Proteins were separated using denaturing 2 D-PAGE and, subsequently, the denatured proteins were transferred to a PVDF membrane using Western blotting. The resulting blot was incubated with a radioactive Zn isotope under 318 P.-L. Hagedoorn non-denaturing conditions. The rationale behind this approach is that upon re- folding of the denatured proteins in the presence of zinc, the metal will be incorporated and the metalloproteins can be identifi ed. As this method is based on unfolding and refolding, there is a high risk of obtaining false positives as well as false negatives. Many of the Zn-containing proteins identifi ed using MIRAGE were also found by Katayama et al. (2002), indicating that the method is apparently successful. This method does not pro- vide quantitative information on the (natural) distribution of zinc among the proteins in a biological sample. High-Throughput Colorimetric-Luminometric Metalloprotein Detection A very different approach has been published by Högbom et al. (2005) and involves an elegant combination of c olorimetric and luminometric techniques to determine manganese, iron,
