Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Colorimetric-Luminometric Metalloprotein Detection A very different approach has been published by Högbom et al. (2005) and involves an elegant combination of c olorimetric and luminometric techniques to determine manganese, iron, c obalt, copper, and nickel or zinc. The proce- dure is a combination of two luminescence and one colorimetric assays. The protein sample (ca. 10 μg) was added to urea to denature the protein and release the metal ions. Subsequently luminol, sodium carbonate, and hydrogen perox- ide were added, and the fi rst luminescence data were recorded. Metal ions are known to enhance the rate of the reaction of luminol with hydrogen peroxide under alkaline conditions. In the second step, 4-(2-pyridylazo)resorcinol (PAR) was added, and the second luminescence data were recorded. PAR is a metal ion chelator and forms colored complexes with various metal ions. After a two- hour incubation period and centrifugation step to release nitrogen gas bubbles resulting from the luminol reaction, the absorbance was measured at 492 nm. The combination of positive and negative responses on the three different as- says allows for the identifi cation of the different metal ions (Figure 18.3). + + + 1st luminol 2nd luminol PAR assay Co test test - - - Cu Fe + 2nd luminol Mn test - + PAR assay Ni/Zn - Negative Figure 18.3 Schematic workfl ow of the luminometric/colorimetric metallopro- teomics approach. Emerging Strategies in Metalloproteomics 319 This method appeared to be powerful in the qualitative detection of met- als in relatively pure protein samples, although it tolerates sub-stoichiometric levels of contaminating metals and can simultaneously measure copper and zinc or nickel. Since the identifi cation of the metal ions in the colorimetric/ luminometric method relies on an ingenious combination of positive and nega- tive results in the different assays, mixtures of metal ions will be diffi cult to analyze. It appears that this approach is most useful in cases where it is known that the sample contains relatively pure proteins and only one major metal is expected. An important advantage of this approach is that it can be imple- mented in existing high-throughput microplate-based platforms. The method was performed in a 384-well format and took three hours to complete, which, according to Högbom et al. (2005), makes it a true high-throughput method. The sensitivity of the method, however, is orders of magnitude lower than for most other techniques discussed here. Methods Based on Synchrotron Radiation
