Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


(2005), makes it a true high-throughput method. The sensitivity of the method, however, is orders of magnitude lower than for most other techniques discussed here. Methods Based on Synchrotron Radiation X-Ray Absorption (XAS) and X-Ray Fluorescence (XRF) X AS and X RF are based on the property that X-ray photons of a certain en- ergy are able to expel electrons from the 1s electron shell around the nucleus. This hole is subsequently fi lled by another electron from a higher energy shell under the emission of a fl uorescent X-ray photon. The fl uorescence signals are highly characteristic of the type of metal. XAS and XRF have been used to structurally characterize metal sites in proteins in techniques such as EXAFS and XANES. SR- XRF has been used to obtain the distribution of certain met- als in a single cell . In recent years, strategies have been developed to use XAS and XRF to perform metalloproteomics (Shi et al. 2005; Shi and Chance 2011). Spatial resolution of Synchrotron X-ray beams has im- proved to a resolution in the order of 0.1–1 μm with a penetration depth of approximately 1 mm. These metalloproteomic strategies involve performing high-throughput XAS on proteins produced in a structural g enomics pipeline and detecting metalloproteins that have been separated using non-denaturing 1D or 2D gel electrophoresis using XRF or XAS. High-throughput XAS to detect c obalt, nickel, copper, and zinc has been performed on recombinant proteins from P . furiosus produced in a structural genomics pipeline . This structural genomics pipeline in- volved the cloning, expression, and purifi cation of ca. 2200 gene products from P. furiosus. Approximately 3 μl of 0.2–1.0 mM of each protein were re- quired. In a similar approach, 654 proteins (100 μg each) from the New York Structural Genomics Research Consortium were analyzed for Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn content . Over 10% of the proteins were found to contain stoichiometric amounts of one of these metals. Scott et al. (2005) concluded that their method was approximately 95% accurate in predicting the stoichiometric metal content. When analyzing metalloproteins from such 320 P.-L. Hagedoorn structural g enomics pipelines, one must be careful as often his-tags and I MAC are used for high-throughput protein purifi cation, and this may lead to improp- er metal incorporation or metal loss during purifi cation . A different approach involves the use of X RF
