Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


for high-throughput protein purifi cation, and this may lead to improp- er metal incorporation or metal loss during purifi cation . A different approach involves the use of X RF to directly scan proteins that have been separated on a non-denaturing electrophoresis gel (Native 2D-PAGE). This method was successfully applied to identify the metal com- position of different isoforms of metalloproteins on a native 2D-PAGE (Ortega 2009). In principle, even information of the redox state and the chemical en- vironment of the metal ion can be obtained . A similar approach has been used in a metalloproteomic investigation of the response of E. coli to Hg2+ . Proteins were separated using a conventional denaturing 2D-PAGE, after which differentially expressed proteins were iden- tifi ed using MS; Hg-containing proteins were found by scanning the gel using XRF. Apparently, Hg binding to these proteins was so tight that they were not disrupted by the extensive exposure of the protein to the denaturing agents (SDS and urea). XAS and XRF are essentially noninvasive to the protein sample. These techniques, however, are only applicable to isolated pure proteins of high concentration. XAS provides more chemical information on the metal envi- ronment than any of the other techniques discussed in this chapter. The main disadvantage of the XRF- and XAS-based techniques is the requirement of a Synchrotron facility. In addition, although XRF is a very sensitive technique and allows the measurement of metals in small sample volumes, even within eukaryotic cells, the concentration of the metal required in the sample is rela- tively high (Ascone and Strange 2009). Computer-Based Metalloproteomics Computer-based methods have already been used in several of the experi- mental strategies outlined above. Cvetkovic et al. (2010) used the Integrated Resource of Protein Domains and Functional Sites (InterPro database) to link the found metals to the proteins detected by MS. In the MIRAGE experiments, genome annotation was used to select the proteins relevant to the metal under investigation when a mixture of proteins was found to be present in a metal- containing spot . The wealth of genomic and protein structural information has not been over- looked by metalloproteomics researchers. The Metal MACiE database1 pro- vides structural and functional information on the metals involved in enzyme catalysis. Metal MACiE contains only metalloproteins with a known crystal structure and only a selected number of metal ions . One typical example of this limitation is
