Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


involved in enzyme catalysis. Metal MACiE contains only metalloproteins with a known crystal structure and only a selected number of metal ions . One typical example of this limitation is that there are no tungsten-containing (accessed Dec. 2, 2014) Emerging Strategies in Metalloproteomics 321 enzymes in the database, whereas in the Protein Data Bank there are at least four known t ungsten enzyme crystal structures. More recently the MetalPDB database2 has been constructed . This database provides structural information about metal sites in proteins and is searchable by metal, by PDB entry, by enzyme or protein name, as well as by other identifi ers and keywords. The information that can be retrieved from this database is pre- dominantly structural. The user has to be aware that metal identities and coor- dination in crystal structures from proteins may contain errors: mismetallation may have occurred during protein production or crystallization, or the metal identity may not have been properly validated by structural biologists. Several strategies to extract metalloproteomic information from such da- tabases have been developed. One particularly comprehensive approach in- volves the following steps for one particular metal: 1. Interrogate literature and database resources to identify metallopro- teins, transporters, cofactor biosynthesis proteins, and others (e.g., chaperones or regulatory proteins) and compile a set of proteins linked to one metal. 2. Perform BLAST searches of this set of proteins against sequenced genomes, identify homologs, and identify metal-using organisms and metal-containing proteins. 3. Analyze the data to construct metalloproteomes for a particular organ- ism or group of organisms or identify the metalloproteome for a par- ticular metal ion. The search includes transporters, cofactor biosynthesis proteins, and regula- tory proteins, most of which will not be metal containing. By using the strategy outlined above Zhang and Gladyshev (2009) have been able to investigate the metal usage by many different organisms. Computer-based methods are interesting as they offer predictions that can be challenged experimentally. Furthermore, these methods offer an overview of met- al usage in biology, based on our current knowledge. Their main drawback is that they are limited by our current knowledge and understanding of biological metal metabolisms. The strategies still require signifi cant manual involvement and databases need to be curated. Unfortunately, two important metalloproteomics resources—Prosthetic centers and metal ions in protein active sites (PROMISE) and the Metalloprotein Database and Browser (MDB)—have recently been dis- continued and no longer exist (Degtyarenko et al.
