Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


important metalloproteomics resources—Prosthetic centers and metal ions in protein active sites (PROMISE) and the Metalloprotein Database and Browser (MDB)—have recently been dis- continued and no longer exist (Degtyarenko et al. 1998; Castagnetto et al. 2002). On the other hand, comprehensive genome, pathway, and protein databases like PROSITE and BioCyc are searchable for particular metals or metal-related bio- logical functions (Caspi et al. 2010; Sigrist et al. 2012). .it (accessed Dec. 2, 2014) 322 P.-L. Hagedoorn Concluding Remarks In a recent perspective article by Lothian et al. (2013), an integrative metal- loproteomics strategy was envisioned, combining traditional proteomics and ICP-MS-based metalloproteomics on biological samples that have been en- riched in particular stable isotopes for certain metals. In such a workfl ow, changes in protein level and metal content can be obtained, although no experi- mental data have yet been presented. Many of the methods presented in this chapter are comprehensive in nature. Some strategies are especially suitable for the systematic analysis of relatively pure recombinant proteins as produced in a structural genomics pipeline (e.g., SR-XRF and the high-throughput colo- rimetric/luminometric method). Other methods are suited to fi nd and quantify metalloproteins that have been separated on a 2D-PAGE gel or by 2D-LC, such as methods based on L A-ICP-MS and M IRAGE. The fi rst method allows for the detection of many metals simultaneously and requires analysis of large numbers of sample, whereas the second can only measure one (radioactive) metal isotope and provides a direct image of metal distribution and quantifi - cation of the metal levels in the different proteins. For the intracellular local- ization of metals in a single eukaryotic cell, S R-X RF appears to be the only amenable technology. For the multi-elemental imaging of a piece of tissue, LA-ICP-MS may well be the most suitable technique. For the identifi cation and quantifi cation of all proteins that contain a particular metal ion in any biological sample, MIRAGE is perhaps the optimal approach. Finally, in the near future, we can expect the interplay of computer-based and experimental strategies in metalloproteomics to advance the fi eld signifi cantly. Measuring Metals in Complex Biological Systems Andreas Matusch, Ana-Maria Oros-Peusquens, and J. Sabine Becker Abstract This chapter presents a conceptual overview of techniques for e lement imaging in bio- logical specimens. Mass spectrometric techniques, particle and photon-induced X-ray emission techniques as well as X-ray and electron absorption techniques are described.
