Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


overview of techniques for e lement imaging in bio- logical specimens. Mass spectrometric techniques, particle and photon-induced X-ray emission techniques as well as X-ray and electron absorption techniques are described. In addition, it discusses frequent methodological issues common to elemental bioimag- ing in all of these techniques. These concern differential leaching of analyte species from distinct biological structures in contact with water and the use of reference pa- rameters correcting for nonhomogeneous material density and nonhomogeneous in- strument sensitivity. The use of 3D atlases of element concentrations for hypothesis generation is exemplifi ed by manganese in the rat brain. The data reported in this chapter were acquired from healthy tissue and illustrate the potential of measurement methods, which can have a major impact in clarifying the role of heavy metals in infectious disease. The examples described have been selected from among various applications of element imaging and may indirectly help infection biologists choose appropriate analytical strategies for their experiments. Overview of Methods for Element Imaging in Biological Tissue Adapting element imaging to an analytical question involves a compromise between sensitivity and precision, on one hand, and spatial and possibly spec- tral resolution, on the other. The smallest detectable absolute amount of analyte determines the minimum volume of the smallest volume element (voxel). Most of the methods discussed herein— laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (LA- ICP-MS), scanning electron microscopy en- ergy dispersive X-ray analysis (SEM- EDX), and benchtop X-ray fl uorescence (XRF)—are limited in spatial resolution and can be used to map infected or- gans or infected animals as a whole. They may help to determine quantita- tive element/metal balances in differentially affected zones or layers (e.g., in 324 A. Matusch et al. abscesses, granoluma, lymph nodes, affected gut segments) or in architectural subunits (e.g., liver lobule, nephron, or glandular unit). When the topic of interest requires measurement of in situ element distribu- tion in single bacteria in conjunction with that of its surroundings, including host cells, true microscopic techniques must be applied. A resolution of a few voxel per bacterium at 50 nm can be attained with n ano secondary ion mass spectrometry (NanoSIMS) and, at a few synchrotron, XRF nanoimaging in- struments, which recently have become operational. The only element-imag- ing techniques shown to provide structural details of bacteria are synchrotron X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS, 10–50 nm) and energy fi ltering trans- mission electron microscopy (EFTEM, 2–50
