Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


The only element-imag- ing techniques shown to provide structural details of bacteria are synchrotron X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS, 10–50 nm) and energy fi ltering trans- mission electron microscopy (EFTEM, 2–50 nm). For the high-resolution techniques, laborious preparation of at least semi- thin (<2 μm), if not thin (<0.5 μm), sections through cryo-ultramicrotomy is necessary after high-pressure freezing to maintain original element distribu- tions. Alternatively, the water in the sample can be sublimated and cryosubsti- tuted by acetone in a freeze substitution apparatus, followed by infi ltration/em- bedding by polyacrylate or polymetharylate resins (e.g., Lowicryl HM20™) and conventional ultra-microtomy. Techniques Involving Mass Spectrometry Laser Ablation Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (LA-ICP-MS) For applications requiring absolute quantifi cation of multiple elements, im- aging by LA-ICP-MS is the method of choice. ICP-MS has an impressive dynamic range, reaching nine orders of magnitude in quadrupole and twelve orders of magnitude in the extended range confi guration of sector fi eld instru- ments. In a typical application of LA-quadrupole-ICP-MS for tissue imaging, we observed a range of 2∙107 between the highest concentrations of the most abundant isotope 39K and the lowest of all limits of detection determined for 208Pb. This is unparalleled among analytical methods and only comparable to the dynamic range of detection of radioactivity. If we consider imaging techniques, the dynamic range of LA-ICP-MS is even superior to that involving radioactive detection. Furthermore, LA-ICP- MS can resolve very small sub ppm concentrations of one element in a matrix of highly concentrated (> 1000 ppm) elements of neighboring atomic number (Z) . For polyisotopic elements, elemental mass spectrometry (LA-ICP-MS, SIMS) offers unique possibilities. For example, it can verify results by comparing the distribution images of several isotopes, such as 64Zn, 66Zn, and 67Zn. It can also perform s table isotope tracer studies using isotopi- cally enriched preparations. The principle of LA-ICP-MS is displayed in Figure 19.1 and explained in the legend. The x-length of one pixel is the product of the x-speed of the xyz stage and the acquisition time for one mass spectrum, which in turn is the sum Measuring Metals in Complex Biological Systems 325 Bars of matrix- matched standard m / z knalB knalB (a) Sample 4 8 121620 Added concentration (b) Laser beam (c) sag reirrac rA Interface High (10–3 Pa) vacuum Lens Inductively coupled plasma Load coil Sample xyz-stage Ablation chamber Ion source retemortceps ssaM Figure 19.1 P rinciple
