Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


(b) Laser beam (c) sag reirrac rA Interface High (10–3 Pa) vacuum Lens Inductively coupled plasma Load coil Sample xyz-stage Ablation chamber Ion source retemortceps ssaM Figure 19.1 P rinciple of quantitative LA-ICP-MS bioimaging. (a) Native cryosec- tions of sample and a stack of spiked homogenate standards are placed together in the ablation chamber, moved by the mobile x yz stage through the laser focus at fi xed posi- tion and so ablated line by line. (b) The ablated material is transported as aerosol by about 1.1 l/min Ar or He/Ar into the inner of three concentric tubes of an ICP torch and crosses the argon plasma fl ame. The plasma acts as a secondary coil; the circulating cur- rents therein are induced by the ~ 1500 W alternating voltage applied at radiofrequency to the four-winded primary (load) coil. In addition to the inner stream, the plasma is fed and regulated by an auxiliary Ar stream of about 0.7 l/min through the middle tube and cooled by the outer Ar stream of about 14 l/min. At about 7000 K, the material is atomized and ionized. Ions are accelerated and extracted into the mass analyzer where they are separated according to their m/z ratio. (c) For each pixel, a mass spectrum is obtained that contains ion intensities at the preselected m/z ratios. Adapted with permis- 326 A. Matusch et al. of dwell times for the preselected m/z (e.g., 80 μm s–1 × 0.1 s × 12 = 96 μm). The y-size of a pixel is the preselected distance between the centers of lines (e.g., 100 μm) which might be subdivided into the line width equalling the laser spot diameter (e.g., 70 μm) and a width of residual material between lines (e.g., 30 μm). When there is overlap (i.e., the spot size is larger than that of the pixel), this is termed oversampling. Due to a lack of appropriate calibration phantoms made of biological material, there is almost no formal determination of the spatial resolution of laser ablation in terms of full width at half maximum (FWHM). Pixel dimensions are considered equivalent with spatial resolution. As a rule of thumb, spatial resolution will be in the range of the laser spot diameter. Commercial ablation systems, such as the NWR213 or the UP266, realistically allow resolutions down to 10 μm, although technically 5 μm is the smallest spot size that can be chosen.
