Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


Commercial ablation systems, such as the NWR213 or the UP266, realistically allow resolutions down to 10 μm, although technically 5 μm is the smallest spot size that can be chosen. In 2013 the NWR-femto was launched, offering 1 μm spot size. Optimizing carrier gas fl ow, the particle composition of the ablated aerosol, transport effi ciency by minimizing dead volume, and ion extraction effi ciency of the mass spectrometer may leave some potential for further improvements. It should be kept in mind that longer scan times bring risks of hardware drift, plasma breakdown, or data overfl ow. From a practical point of view, scan times of 12 h can be used in an optimized setup without compromising data quality; however, the measurement time should not become substantially longer. Scanning an area of 1 cm2 at 100 μm takes 2.8 h. Approximate realistic detection limits are 500 fg Cu and 50 fg Pt meaning 0.1 μg g–1 and 0.01 μg g–1 wet weight concentration, respectively, at 100 μm lateral resolution in a 30 μm native cryosection. The sensitivity of ICP-MS in- creases considerably with higher element order due to the lower fi rst ionization energy and less noisy polyatomic interferences from biological matrix, argon, and residual traces of ambient air. We prefer that samples for LA-ICP-MS are placed onto Starfrost™ adhesive standard glass slides. Mounting onto cov- erslip glasses is an alternative, as these typically contain considerably lower element contamination than silicon and oxygen. Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry (SIMS) In SIMS, a primary ion beam is shot onto the sample surface and launches (sputters) secondary atomic and molecular ions, which are then accelerated into mass analyzer and analyzed. Primary beams of Au + or Bi + clusters, C +, n n 60 O +, or O– are used to create positively charged secondary ions, while Cs+ or SF + are primarily used to produce negative secondary ions. The yield of secondary ions, and therefore the sensitivity, depends highly on (a) the fi rst ionization energy, which is best for Li, Na, K, Rb, and Sr in positive ion mode, and on (b) the electron affi nity (EA) in negative ion mode, which is best for Cl, Se, Br, F, Au, P, CN–, CO–, etc.; elements in between may be diffi cult to detect in some settings . Due to the low penetration depth, this technique is highly sensitive to drying artifacts,
