Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


CN–, CO–, etc.; elements in between may be diffi cult to detect in some settings . Due to the low penetration depth, this technique is highly sensitive to drying artifacts, whereby soluble compounds Measuring Metals in Complex Biological Systems 327 are transported to the surface forming a crust there, which makes it totally unsuitable to quantify elements present as mobile species (e.g., K+ Na+, Li+, in part Ca2+) in air-dried thicker sections. For meaningful SIMS measurements to refl ect real element levels, a perfectly plane sample surface is provided by cryo substituted resine-embedded ultramicrotome sections (discussed below). To allow higher primary ion currents or higher shoot frequency, with this high- er penetration depth reaching 10 nm (dynamical mode), conductive support or coating is required (discussed further below). Otherwise, charge compensation through electron fl ooding makes the use of conventional glass slides possible. In static SIMS mode, working with primary ion doses of <1012 cm–2, prima- ry particles implanted into the sample and secondary particles sputtered away are almost in equilibrium providing secondary ions of low energy, narrow dis- tribution of low initial velocities, and an information depth of about 5 atomic layers. In the dynamic SIMS mode, there is net removal of material of up to 10 nm in a single run and the possibility of depth profi ling by multiple runs. NanoSIMS, optimized for dynamic mode, provides high-spatial resolution down to about 50 nm in negative ion mode (see Figure 19.2) and 200 nm in Figure 19.2 L actobacillus sakei was grown on media supplemented with different iron sources (left and right column). Samples were high-pressure frozen, freeze-substi- tuted with polyacryl embedding medium, and ultra-cut into 50 nM sections. Iron was imaged using E FTEM on a Zeiss CEM902; the 708 KeV energy edge corresponds to the characteristic L2,3 L-shell electron abstraction energy. Parallel electron energy loss spectra are inserted and 250 KeV energy loss (below the C K-edge) images are superim- posed (upper images). Dynamic SIMS was acquired with a CAMECA NanoSIMS-50 ion microprobe equipped with a magnetic sector fi eld analyzer, which is capable of detecting fi ve secondary ion species simultaneously. Primary ion beams of about 6 pA Cs+ were used to generate negative secondary ions and of O– to generate positive sec- ondary ions. Pixel size was 390 nm × 117 nm. From Duhutrel et al. (2010); adapted with permission from the American Society for
