Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


and of O– to generate positive sec- ondary ions. Pixel size was 390 nm × 117 nm. From Duhutrel et al. (2010); adapted with permission from the American Society for Microbiology. 328 A. Matusch et al. positive ion mode. NanoSIMS uses a sector fi eld analyzer equipped with up to seven collector detectors for highest sensitivity; this allows for continuously running the primary ion beam. Here about 5 ions reaching the detector are suffi cient for detection, which requires sputtering 1000 Si atoms from the ana- lytical volume.1 Appendix 20.6 in Maret et al. (this volume) gives examples of sensitivities and limits of detections of NanoSIMS for the elements titanium through uranium. The use of time of fl ight (ToF) analyzers, better suited for static mode, requires pulses or shots of primary ion beams, and the ToF readout time limits lateral analysis speed. Suitable primary ions of lower energy (e.g., Au, C , or Bi clusters) permit molecules that are larger than 1500 Da to be 60 300 imaged. Spatial resolution is limited to about 0.5–5 μm, and can even go down to 100 nm in exceptional cases. Techniques Sensitive to Inner Electron Shell Transitions This group of quasi-nondestructive techniques employs focused X-ray pho- ton, electron, proton, or p article beams of suffi cient energy, which are scanned over the sample. Possible interactions between radiation and matter include absorption or inelastic scatter, which leads to specifi c ionization of an inner (K-, L-, M-) electron shell while lifting an electron by a discrete amount to a higher level. Here, the absorbed energy and, conversely, the energy loss of the incident particle (ΔW) correspond to the potential difference of the shell electron (U), according to U ∙ e = ΔW. Photons of the frequency f are absorbed as entire quantum h ∙ f = ΔW + W (where W represents the excess kinetic kin kin energy of ejected photoelectrons). For a given transition, the ionization energy is a function of (Z – 1)2, whereby Z is the atomic number. This relationship was fi rst observed and formulated for the XRF K -lines, the energy of which is α1 proportional to (Z – 1)2 (Moseley’s Law). X-Ray and Electron Absorption Techniques Absorption spectra are not continuous but rather show element-specifi c edg- es. Spectra are measured using e lectron energy loss spectrometry (EELS) on transmission electron microscopy platforms that are equipped with
