Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


spectra are not continuous but rather show element-specifi c edg- es. Spectra are measured using e lectron energy loss spectrometry (EELS) on transmission electron microscopy platforms that are equipped with a multisec- tor fi eld electron spectrometer at the sample stage, while working at a fi xed acceleration voltage. XAS is available at some end stations of synchrotron sources, which allow incident X-ray energy to be fi ne-tuned. The element se- lective imaging modes thereof are termed energy fi ltering transmission electron microscopy (EFTEM) and scanning transmission X-ray microscopy (STXM), respectively. For fast imaging of a given element, the entire spectra does not need to be recorded per pixel; the difference or quotient of an absorption im- age is taken within an energy window (e.g., 40 eV width) above (i.e., at higher (accessed December 4, 2014). Measuring Metals in Complex Biological Systems 329 energy than) the a bsorption edge (post-edge), so that a background image can be generated from an extrapolation of one or several acquisitions below (i.e., at lower energy than) the absorption edge (pre-edge). To achieve high sensi- tivity in absorption techniques, a sharp absorption edge is required. The elec- tron spectrometer of EFTEM is spatially resolving. Elements with full elec- tron confi gurations (e.g., zinc, cadmium, and mercury) have particularly round edges, whereas elements with possible 2p → 3d transitions (potassium through nickel) and 3d → 4f transitions (tin through thulium) exhibit particularly sharp edges and eventually additional sharp “white” absorption lines. Normalizing to the spectrum integral can correct for sample thickness. Using EFTEM, single ferritin molecules of 8 nm diameter could be imaged at C, N, and O edges, and their Fe load of up to 4500 atoms was discriminated. In EFTEM, spatial resolu- tions of 2–50 nm were reached; in XAS, 10–50 nm. In addition to measuring total element levels, XAS and EELS allow pre- dictions to be made regarding the chemical environment of elements when acquired at high spectral resolution. Both techniques provide information on the electron environment, oxidation state, binding partners/ligands, and com- plex geometry. XAS even allows a classifi cation of biomolecules and detects features of the C K-edge characteristic for proteins. The spectral range from 15 eV below to 150 eV above an absorption edge is termed n ear edge X-ray absorption fi ne structure (NEXAFS) and encompasses the range beyond ex- tended X-ray absorption fi ne structure (EXAFS). In EELS,
