Trace Metals and Infectious Diseases
KEYWORDS: metal, metals, iron, host, proteins, protein, ions, metal ions, bacteria, zinc, ion, metal ion, transport, essential, systems


above an absorption edge is termed n ear edge X-ray absorption fi ne structure (NEXAFS) and encompasses the range beyond ex- tended X-ray absorption fi ne structure (EXAFS). In EELS, in addition to near edge and extended fi ne structure, the plasmon region of electron energy losses, ranging about 0–100 eV, provides additional speciation information. Obtaining spectra pixel per pixel is, however, time consuming and may be reserved for selected regions of interest. Another advantage of EFTEM is that fi ltering electrons with an energy loss of 250 eV, which is below the C K-edge at 284 eV, generates high-contrast structural elastic scatter images of unstained organic material suited for perfect superimposition with element images. X-ray and electron absorption techniques allow the acquisition of high- quality structural images in the same session. XAS provides best structural contrast of hydrated samples in the “water” window: from above C K-edge at 284 eV to below the O K-edge at 543 eV. X-Ray Emission Techniques Once an electron shell has an inner electron (K-, L-, or M-) gap, this is fi lled by electrons from the outer shells. Two relevant processes control how the specifi c amount of excess energy can be released: (a) characteristic X-rays are emit- ted (this is termed X-ray fl uorescence when excitation was by X-rays) or (b) outer shell electrons are ejected (this is termed A uger electron emission). The higher the atomic number Z, the lower the probability/quantum yield of Auger and the higher that of X-ray emission. The ratio for K-gaps is 50:50 for Z = 38 330 A. Matusch et al. (strontium). X-ray emissions are typically detected in an angle of 45°–90° to the incident beam. Restrictions Related to the Interactions of Incident Beam and Matter The yield of X-ray emission per incident beam fl ux, termed the production cross section of characteristic X-ray emission, asymptotically decreases with Z for particles while the photon-induced fl uorescent X-ray production cross section increases with Z. In addition to the characteristic element-specifi c discrete line spectrum, electron and p article beams produce a continuous spectrum of bremsstrahlung background. The production cross section of bremsstrahlung in the relevant range increases with energy for electrons, decreases with energy for protons and larger particles, and is proportional to (z/m – Z/M)² with z/m and Z/M cor- responding to the charge to mass ratio of incident particle and target material, respectively. As
