Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


ABSTRACT Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is characterized by hypercalcemia and elevated or inappropriately normal parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. PHPT results from excessive secretion of PTH from one or more of the parathyroid glands. The clinical presentation of PHPT has evolved since the 1970’s with the advent of the routine measurement of serum calcium at that time. Classical PHPT, with its associated severe hypercalcemia, osteitis fibrosa cystica, nephrolithiasis, and neuropsychological symptoms, once common is now infrequent. Today most patients are asymptomatic and have mild hypercalcemia, but may have evidence of subclinical skeletal and renal sequelae such as osteoporosis and hypercalciuria as well as vertebral fractures and nephrolithiasis both of which may be asymptomatic. Parathyroidectomy is the only curative treatment for PHPT and is recommended in patients with symptoms and those with asymptomatic disease who have evidence of end-organ sequelae. Parathyroidectomy results in an increase in BMD and a reduction in nephrolithiasis. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is characterized by hypercalcemia and elevated or inappropriately normal parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. The disorder today bears few similarities to the severe condition described by Fuller Albright and others as a “disease of stones, bones, and groans” in the 1930s ( 1 - 3 ). The skeletal hallmark of PHPT was osteitis fibrosa cystica, radiographically characterized by brown tumors of the long bones, subperiosteal bone resorption, distal tapering of the clavicles and phalanges, and “salt-and-pepper” erosions of the skull ( 4 ). Nephrocalcinosis and nephrolithiasis were present in the majority of patients, and neuromuscular dysfunction with muscle weakness was also common. With the advent of the automated serum chemistry autoanalyzer in the 1970s, the diagnosis of PHPT was increasingly recognized, leading to a four- to five-fold increase in incidence ( 5 - 7 ). Classic symptomatology, concomitantly, became much less frequent. In the United States and elsewhere in the developed world, symptomatic PHPT is now the exception and more than three fourths of patients having no symptoms attributable to their disease, making PHPT a disease that has “evolved” from its classic presentation ( Table 1 ) ( 8 ). Symptomatic nephrolithiasis is still observed, although much less frequently than in the past. Now, radiologically evident bone disease is rare, but subclinical skeletal involvement can be readily detected by bone densitometry ( 9 ). This chapter describes the modern presentation, diagnosis
