Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


in the alimentary submucosa of the esophagus ( 20 - 22 ). On histologic examination, most parathyroid adenomas are encapsulated and are composed of parathyroid chief cells. Adenomas containing mainly oxyphilic or oncocytic cells are rare, but can give rise to clinical PHPT ( 23 ). Very rarely, PHPT may be due to parathyromatosis. This refers to an uncommon condition in which benign hyperfunctioning parathyroid tissue is scattered throughout the neck and/or in the superior mediastinum (see Unusual Presentations) ( 24 ). EPIDEMIOLOGY The incidence of PHPT has changed dramatically over the last half century ( 5 , 6 , 25 , 26 ). Before the advent of the multichannel autoanalyzer in the early 1970s, Heath et al reported an incidence of 7.8 cases per 100,000 persons in Rochester, Minnesota ( 5 ). With the introduction of routine calcium measurements in the mid-1970s, this rate rose dramatically to 51.1 cases per 100,000 in the same community. After prevalent cases were diagnosed, the incidence declined to approximately 27 per 100,000 persons per year in the United States until 1998, at which time another sharp increase was noted ( 25 , 27 , 28 ). This second peak has been attributed to the introduction of osteoporosis screening guidelines and targeted testing in those with osteoporosis ( 28 ). Recent works shows the incidence of PHPT increases with age and is higher in women and African-Americans than in men and other racial groups, respectively ( 29 ). Greater appreciation of the catabolic potential of PTH in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis has led to measurement of PTH even in subjects who do not have hypercalcemia. This trend has led to the emergence of a new entity, normocalcemic PHPT or NPHPT( 30 ). This condition is characterized by normal serum calcium, elevated PTH, and exclusion of known causes of secondary hyperparathyroidism. The incidence of NPHPT is unknown, but recent studies suggest a prevalence ranging from 0.2-3.1% ( 31 , 32 ). DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS The diagnosis of PHPT is made when hypercalcemia and elevated PTH levels are present. PTH levels that are inappropriately normal are also consistent with the diagnosis. The other major cause of hypercalcemia, malignancy, is readily discriminated from PHPT by a suppressed PTH level. Further, both the clinical presentation and biochemical profile of PHPT and hypercalcemia of malignancy help distinguish them. Patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy typically have severe and symptomatic
