Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


suppressed PTH level. Further, both the clinical presentation and biochemical profile of PHPT and hypercalcemia of malignancy help distinguish them. Patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy typically have severe and symptomatic hypercalcemia and advanced cancers that are clinically obvious. On the other hand, in PHPT most patients are asymptomatic and the serum calcium level is typically mildly elevated (within 1 mg/dl of the upper limit of normal). Extremely rarely, a patient with malignancy will be shown to have elevated PTH levels resulting from ectopic secretion of native PTH from the tumor itself ( 33 ). Much more commonly, the malignancy is associated with the secretion of parathyroid hormone–related protein (PTHrP), a molecule that does not cross-react in intact PTH assay (discussed below). Finally, it is possible that a malignancy is present in association with PHPT. When the PTH level is elevated in someone with a malignancy, this is more likely to be the case than a true ectopic PTH syndrome. While ninety percent of patients with hypercalcemia have either PHPT or malignancy, the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia includes a number of other etiologies such as vitamin D intoxication, granulomatous disease, and others ( 33 ). With the exception of lithium and thiazide use and familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH), virtually all other causes of hypercalcemia are associated with suppressed levels of PTH. If lithium and/or thiazides can be safely withdrawn, serum calcium and PTH levels that continue to be elevated 3-6 months later, confirm the diagnosis of PHPT. FHH, on the other hand, is differentiated from PHPT by family history, typically (but not always) low urinary calcium excretion, and mutations in the calcium sensing receptor ( CASR ) or more recently associated GNA11 and AP2S1 genes ( 34 - 36 ). In addition, virtual complete genetic penetrance leads to its clinical appearance typically before the age of 30. It is extremely unusual for FHH to present without an antecedent history after the age of 50. To distinguish PTH-mediated from non-PTH mediated causes of hypercalcemia, PTH should be measured with an intact immunoradiometric (IRMA) or immunochemiluminometric (ICMA) assay, which readily discriminates between PHPT and hypercalcemia of malignancy. In PHPT, PTH concentrations are usually frankly elevated, but most often within 2 times the upper limit of normal. A minority may have PTH levels in the normal range, typically in the upper range of normal. In PHPT, such values, although within the normal range, are
