Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


limit of normal. A minority may have PTH levels in the normal range, typically in the upper range of normal. In PHPT, such values, although within the normal range, are clearly abnormal in a hypercalcemic setting. Several factors affect the PTH level in those with and without PHPT, including age, vitamin D levels, and renal function. Because PTH levels normally rise with age, the broad normal range (typically 10-65 pg/mL) reflects values for the entire population. In the younger individual (< 45 years), one expects a narrower and lower normal range (10-45 pg/mL). Occasionally, the PTH level as measured will be as low as 20-30 pg/mL. Such unusual examples require a more careful consideration of other causes of hypercalcemia, but such individuals will usually be shown to have PHPT because hypercalcemia that is not PTH-mediated suppresses the PTH concentration to levels that are either undetectable or at the lower limits of the reference range. Souberbielle et al ( 37 ) have illustrated that the normal range is dependent on whether or not the reference population is or is not vitamin D deficient. When vitamin D–deficient individuals were excluded, the upper limit of the PTH reference interval decreased. Patients with PHPT and vitamin D deficiency have a “heightened” PTH levels compared to those who are vitamin D sufficient ( 38 ). On the other hand, renal dysfunction tends to elevate PTH levels via a number of mechanisms, including reduced clearance and degradation of PTH. Indeed, patients with PHPT and severe renal dysfunction (glomerular filtration rate < 30ml/min), may also have higher PTH levels compared to those with better renal function ( 39 ). In addition, the “intact” IRMA for PTH overestimates the concentration of biologically active PTH, particularly in renal failure. In 1998, Lepage et al ( 40 ) demonstrated a large non-( 1 – 84 ) PTH fragment that comigrated with a large aminoterminally truncated fragment (PTH[7–84]) and showed substantial cross-reactivity in commercially available IRMAs. This large, inactive moiety constituted as much as 50% of immunoreactivity by IRMA for PTH in individuals with chronic renal failure ( 41 ). Recognition of this molecule led to the development of a new IRMA using affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies to PTH ( 39 – 84 ) and to the extreme N-terminal amino acid regions, PTH ( 1 – 4 ) ( 42 , 43 ). This “whole PTH” or third generation assay detects only
