Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


84 ) and to the extreme N-terminal amino acid regions, PTH ( 1 – 4 ) ( 42 , 43 ). This “whole PTH” or third generation assay detects only the full-length PTH molecule, PTH ( 1 – 84 ). This assay has clear utility in uremic patients, but in PHPT, both assays are equally useful ( 40 , 44 - 46 ). Using the third-generation assay for PTH ( 1 - 84 ), a second molecular form of PTH( 1 - 84 ) that is immunologically intact at both extremes has been identified. This molecule reacts only poorly in second-generation PTH assays. It represents less than 10% of the immunoreactivity in normal individuals and up to 15% in renal failure patients. In a limited number of patients with a severe form of PHPT or with parathyroid cancer, it may be over-expressed ( 47 ). PHPT can be discriminated from secondary and tertiary hyperparathyroidism by its different biochemical profile. Secondary hyperparathyroidism is associated with an appropriate elevation in PTH in response to a hypocalcemic provocation and either a frankly low or normal serum calcium level. Secondary hyperparathyroidism is often due to vitamin D deficiency. Other causes include malabsorption, kidney disease, or hypercalciuria. Infrequently, patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism may become hypercalcemic, and will ultimately be found to have PHPT, when the underlying condition (for example, vitamin D deficiency) is corrected ( 48 ). In these cases, the hypercalcemia of PHPT was ‘masked’ by the co-existing condition. On the other hand, tertiary hyperparathyroidism describes a condition in which prolonged, severe secondary hyperparathyroidism (as in end-stage renal disease) evolves into a hypercalcemic state due to the development of autonomous functioning of one or more of the hyperplastic parathyroid glands. This can be observed in patients on dialysis or after renal transplant. Tertiary hyperparathyroidism is usually obvious from the history. Normocalcemic primary hyperparathyroidism (NPHPT) describes a condition characterized by normal serum albumin-corrected calcium levels and ionized calcium values with an elevated PTH level. This condition can only be diagnosed when all known causes of secondary hyperparathyroidism have been excluded. Patients with NPHPT typically are diagnosed when PTH is measured in the course of an evaluation for low bone mass. NPHPT may represent the earliest manifestations of PHPT, a “forme fruste” of the disease. Several reports have appeared describing these individuals, with some patients progressing to overt hypercalcemia while under observation ( 30 , 32
