Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


manifestations of PHPT, a “forme fruste” of the disease. Several reports have appeared describing these individuals, with some patients progressing to overt hypercalcemia while under observation ( 30 , 32 , 49 , 50 ). Although the term “normocalcemic PHPT” has been in use for decades, there has been considerable controversy concerning the accuracy of this designation. In many cases, the increases in PTH levels were attributable to the limitations of available assay technology. The older midmolecule radioimmunoassay for PTH, previously in common use, measured hormone fragments in addition to the intact molecule. Spuriously elevated PTH levels, particularly in those with renal insufficiency in whom clearance of hormone fragments is impaired, were seen. Alternative explanations for hyperparathyroidism with NPHPT have been discovered, including medications, hypercalciuria, renal insufficiency, and certain forms of liver and gastrointestinal disease. In recent years, it has become clear that many patients designated as having NPHPT were vitamin D deficient. Vitamin D deficiency with coexisting PHPT can give the semblance of normal calcium levels when in fact they would have been hypercalcemic if the vitamin D levels were normal. Since a possible view of NPHPT is a condition fostered by an element of vitamin D resistance, it is important to ensure vitamin D sufficiency. While the Institute of Medicine states that normal levels of vitamin D, as measured by 25-hydroxyvitamin D, are 20 ng/ml, it did not address conditions of abnormal mineral metabolism, such as PHPT. In particular, in NPHPT, we and others recommend that levels of 25-hydorxyvitamin D be raised, if necessary, to > 30 ng/mL for at least 3 months in order to rule out an element of vitamin D insufficiency in this population. Biochemical profiles for the various causes of hypercalcemia and hyperparathyroidism are shown in Table 2 . Table 2. Biochemical Profiles for Various Causes of Hypercalcemia and Hyperparathyroidism View in own window Cause Serum Calcium PTH Urine Calcium Primary Hyperparathyroidism Elevated Elevated or Inappropriately Normal High or High Normal Hypercalcemia of Malignancy and non-PTH Mediated Hypercalcemia Elevated Suppressed Typically High* Secondary Hyperparathyroidism Normal or Low Elevated Low in vitamin D deficiency, malabsorption, chronic renal failure, High in Idiopathic Hypercalciuria Tertiary Hyperparathyroidism Elevated Elevated Low before transplant FHH Elevated Typically High Normal or Elevated Typically Low Normocalcemic Primary Hyperparathyroidism Normal High <350 mg/24 hours ( 30 ) * may vary by cause OTHER BIOCHEMICAL FEATURES In PHPT, serum phosphorus tends to be in
