Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


population- and geographic-specific screening practices. It is also postulated that vitamin D deficiency may affect clinical presentation. Vitamin D deficiency heightens PTH elevations and this can worsen the hyperparathyroid process ( 53 ). In regions of the world and populations where biochemical screening is not routine and incidentally where vitamin D deficiency is endemic, symptomatic PHPT is the most common form and PHPT will appear to be uncommon because it is only discovered when symptomatic ( 54 - 64 ). In areas and populations where screening is routine, asymptomatic PHPT will predominate and the incidence of PHPT is higher ( 52 , 65 ). This chapter focuses on asymptomatic PHPT, as it is the predominant form in the United States and in most of the developed world. At the time of diagnosis, most patients with PHPT do not exhibit classic symptoms or signs associated with disease. Clinically overt kidney stones and fractures are rare ( 66 ). Constitutional complaints such as weakness, easy fatigability, depression, and intellectual weariness are seen with some regularity (see later discussion) ( 67 ). The physical examination is generally unremarkable. Band keratopathy, a hallmark of classic PHPT, occurs because of deposition of calcium phosphate crystals in the cornea, but is virtually never seen grossly. Even by slit-lamp examination, this finding is rare. The neck shows no masses. The neuromuscular system is normal. The sections below provide a detailed description of the multi-systemic manifestations of PHPT. Diseases associated epidemiologically with PHPT have included hypertension ( 68 - 70 ), peptic ulcer disease, gout, or pseudogout ( 71 , 72 ). More recently celiac disease has been associated with PHPT ( 73 ). Some concomitant disorders such as hypertension are commonly seen, but it is not established that any of these associated disorders are etiologically linked to the disease. The Skeleton The classic radiologic bone disease of PHPT, osteitis fibrosa cystica , is rarely seen today in the United States. Most series place the incidence of osteitis fibrosa cystica at less than 2% of patients with PHPT. The absence of classic radiographic features (salt-and-pepper skull, tapering of the distal third of the clavicle, subperiosteal bone resorption of the phalanges, brown tumors) does not mean that the skeleton is not affected. With more sensitive techniques, it has become clear that skeletal involvement in the hyperparathyroid process is actually quite common. This section reviews the profile of the skeleton
