Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


is not affected. With more sensitive techniques, it has become clear that skeletal involvement in the hyperparathyroid process is actually quite common. This section reviews the profile of the skeleton in PHPT as it is reflected in assays for bone markers, bone densitometry, bone histomorphometry, and new skeletal imaging techniques. BONE TURNOVER MARKERS PTH stimulates both bone resorption and bone formation. Markers of bone turnover, which reflect those dynamics, provide clues to the extent of skeletal involvement in PHPT ( 74 ). Bone Formation Markers Osteoblast products, including bone-specific alkaline phosphatase activity, osteocalcin, and serum amino-terminal propeptide of type I collagen (P1NP), reflect bone formation ( 74 ). In PHPT, alkaline phosphatase levels, the most widely clinically available marker, can be mildly elevated, but in many patients, total alkaline phosphatase values are within normal limits ( 75 , 76 ). In a small study from our group ( 77 ), bone-specific alkaline phosphatase activity correlated with PTH levels and BMD at the lumbar spine and femoral neck. Osteocalcin is also generally increased in patients with PHPT ( 77 - 79 ). Sclerostin is an important regulator of bone formation. Patients with PHPT have low sclerostin levels, suggesting PTH down regulates sclerostin ( 80 ). As expected the bone formation marker, serum amino-terminal propeptide of type I collagen (P1NP), is negatively associated with sclerostin in PHPT ( 81 ). In a small series of 27 patients followed for up to a year post-PTX, circulating sclerostin increases shortly after post-surgery but return to the age reference range within 10 days ( 82 ). Bone Resorption Markers Markers of bone resorption include the osteoclast product, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), and collagen breakdown products such as hydroxyproline, hydroxypyridinium cross-links of collagen, and N- and C-telopeptides of type 1 collagen (NTX and CTX) ( 74 ). Urinary hydroxyproline, once the only available marker of bone resorption, no longer offers sufficient sensitivity or specificity to make it useful. Although urinary hydroxyproline was frankly elevated in patients with osteitis fibrosa cystica, in mild asymptomatic PHPT it is generally normal. Hydroxypyridinium cross-links of collagen, pyridinoline (PYD), and deoxypyridinoline (DPD), on the other hand, are often elevated in PHPT. They return to normal after parathyroidectomy ( 83 ). DPD and PYD both correlate positively with PTH concentrations. Studies of NTX, CTX and TRAP are limited, although levels of the latter have been shown to be elevated ( 48 ).
