Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


and PYD both correlate positively with PTH concentrations. Studies of NTX, CTX and TRAP are limited, although levels of the latter have been shown to be elevated ( 48 ). Thus, sensitive assays of bone formation and bone resorption are both elevated in mild PHPT. Longitudinal Bone Turnover Marker Studies Studies of bone turnover markers in the longitudinal follow-up of patients with PHPT indicate a reduction in these markers following parathyroidectomy. Information from our group ( 83 , 84 ), Guo et al ( 85 ), and Tanaka et al ( 86 ) all report declining levels of bone markers following surgery. The kinetics of change in bone resorption versus bone formation following parathyroidectomy provide insight into skeletal recovery. We have found that markers of bone resorption decline rapidly following successful parathyroidectomy, whereas indices of bone formation follow a more gradual decrease ( 83 ). Urinary PYD and DPD decreased significantly as early as 2 weeks following parathyroid surgery, preceding reductions in alkaline phosphatase. Similar data were reported from Tanaka et al ( 86 ), who demonstrated a difference in time course between changes in NTX (reflecting bone resorption) and osteocalcin (reflecting bone formation) following parathyroidectomy, and Minisola et al ( 87 ), who reported a drop in bone resorptive markers and no significant change in alkaline phosphatase or osteocalcin. The persistence of elevated bone formation markers coupled with rapid declines in bone resorption markers indicate a shift in the coupling between bone formation and bone resorption toward an accrual of bone mineral postoperatively. More recent data indicate that levels of preoperative markers of bone turnover (formation and resorption) are positively associated with the extent of bone accrual after parathyroidectomy, though some of the patients included in this study had more severe PHPT than is typically seen in the United States today ( 88 ). BONE DENSITOMETRY The advent of bone mineral densitometry as a major diagnostic tool for osteoporosis occurred at a time when the clinical profile of PHPT was changing from a symptomatic to an asymptomatic disease. This fortuitous timing allowed questions about skeletal involvement in PHPT to be addressed when specific gross radiologic features of PHPT had all but disappeared. Observations of skeletal health in PHPT made by bone densitometry have established the importance of this technology in the evaluation of all patients with PHPT. The Consensus Development Conference on Asymptomatic Primary Hyperparathyroidism in 1990 implicitly acknowledged
