Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


by bone densitometry have established the importance of this technology in the evaluation of all patients with PHPT. The Consensus Development Conference on Asymptomatic Primary Hyperparathyroidism in 1990 implicitly acknowledged this point when bone mineral densitometry was included as a separate criterion for clinical decision making ( 89 ). Since that time, bone densitometry has become an indispensable component of both evaluating the patient and establishing clinical guidelines for management and monitoring. The known physiologic proclivity of PTH to be catabolic at sites of cortical bone make a cortical site essential to any complete densitometric study of PHPT. By convention, the distal third of the radius is the site used. The early densitometric studies in PHPT also showed another physiologic property of PTH, namely, to preserve bone at cancellous sites. The lumbar spine is an important site to measure not only because it is predominantly cancellous bone, but also because postmenopausal women are at risk for cancellous bone loss. In PHPT, bone density at the distal third of the radius is diminished ( 90 , 91 ) while at the lumbar spine it is only minimally reduced ( Figure 1 ). The hip region, containing relatively equal amounts of cortical and cancellous elements, shows bone density intermediate between the cortical and cancellous sites. The results support not only the notion that PTH is catabolic for cortical bone but also the view that PTH is generally protective against bone loss in cancellous bone ( 92 - 94 ). In postmenopausal women, the same pattern was observed ( 91 ). Postmenopausal women with PHPT, therefore, show a reversal of the pattern typically associated with postmenopausal bone loss. Rather than preferential loss of cancellous bone at the lumbar spine, the cortical site of the distal radius is more often affected in postmenopausal women with PHPT. Figure 1. The pattern of bone loss in primary hyperparathyroidism. A typical pattern of bone loss is seen in asymptomatic patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. The lumbar spine is relatively well preserved while the distal radius (1/3 site) is preferentially affected. (Reprinted with permission from Silverberg SJ, Shane E, DeLaCruz L, et al. Skeletal disease in primary hyperparathyroidism. J Bone Mineral Res 1989;4:283-291). The bone density profile in which there is relative preservation of skeletal mass at the vertebrae and reduction at the more cortical distal radius is not always seen in PHPT. Although this pattern is evident in
