Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


there is relative preservation of skeletal mass at the vertebrae and reduction at the more cortical distal radius is not always seen in PHPT. Although this pattern is evident in the vast majority of patients, small groups of patients show evidence of vertebral osteopenia at the time of presentation. In our natural-history study, approximately 15% of patients had a lumbar spine Z score of less than –1.5 at the time of diagnosis ( 95 ). Only half of these patients were postmenopausal women, so not all vertebral bone loss could be attributed entirely to estrogen deficiency. These patients are of interest with regard to changes in bone density following parathyroidectomy and are discussed in further detail later. The extent of vertebral bone involvement will vary as a function of disease severity. In the typical mild form of the disease, the pattern described earlier is seen. When PHPT is more advanced, there will be more generalized involvement, with involvement of the lumbar bone. When PHPT is severe or more symptomatic, all bones can be extensively involved. Vitamin D deficiency in mild asymptomatic PHPT seems to have minimal effect on BMD with only slightly reduced BMD at the 1/3 radius in those with low vitamin D ( 96 , 97 ). BONE HISTOMORPHOMETRY Analyses of percutaneous bone biopsies from patients with PHPT have provided direct information that could only be indirectly surmised by bone densitometry and by bone markers. Both static and dynamic parameters present a picture of cortical thinning, maintenance of cancellous bone volume, and a very dynamic process associated with high turnover and accelerated bone remodeling. Cortical thinning, inferred by bone mineral densitometry, is clearly documented in a quantitative manner by iliac crest bone biopsy ( 98 , 99 ). Van Doorn et al ( 100 ) demonstrated a positive correlation between PTH levels and cortical porosity. These findings are consistent with the known effect of PTH to be catabolic at endocortical surfaces of bone. Osteoclasts are thought to erode more deeply along the corticomedullary junction under the influence of PTH. Histomorphometric studies have also contributed information about cancellous bone in PHPT ( 100 ). Again, as suggested by bone densitometry, cancellous bone volume is well preserved in PHPT. This is seen as well among postmenopausal women with PHPT. Several studies have shown that cancellous bone is actually increased in PHPT as compared to normal subjects ( 101 , 102
