Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


is seen as well among postmenopausal women with PHPT. Several studies have shown that cancellous bone is actually increased in PHPT as compared to normal subjects ( 101 , 102 ). When cancellous bone volume is compared among age- and sex-matched subjects with PHPT or postmenopausal osteoporosis, a dramatic difference is evident. Whereas postmenopausal women with osteoporosis have reduced cancellous bone volume, women with PHPT have higher cancellous bone volume ( 101 ). The region(s) of bone loss in PHPT is (are) directed toward the cortical bone compartment, with good maintenance of cancellous bone volume unless the PHPT is unusually active. In PHPT, age-related bone loss appears to be mitigated. In a study of 27 patients with PHPT (10 men and 17 women), static parameters of bone turnover (osteoid surface, osteoid volume, and eroded surface) were increased, as expected, in patients relative to control subjects ( 103 ). However, in control subjects, trabecular number varied inversely with age, whereas trabecular separation increased with advancing age. These observations are expected concomitants of aging. In marked contrast, in the patients with PHPT, no such age dependency was seen. There was no relationship between trabecular number or separation and age in PHPT, suggesting that the actual plates and their connections were being maintained over time more effectively than one would have expected by aging per se. Thus, PHPT seems to retard the normal age-related processes associated with trabecular loss. In PHPT, indices of trabecular connectivity are greater than expected, whereas indices of disconnectivity are decreased. When three matched groups of postmenopausal women were assessed (a normal group, a group with postmenopausal osteoporosis, and a group with PHPT), women with PHPT were shown to have trabeculae with less evidence of disconnectivity compared with normal, despite increased levels of bone turnover ( 102 , 103 ). Thus, cancellous bone is preserved in PHPT through the maintenance of well-connected trabecular plates. To determine the mechanism of cancellous bone preservation in PHPT, static and dynamic histomorphometric indices were compared between normal and hyperparathyroid postmenopausal women. In normal postmenopausal women, there is an imbalance in bone formation and resorption, which favors excess bone resorption. In postmenopausal women with PHPT, on the other hand, the adjusted apposition rate is increased. Bone formation, thus favored, may explain the efficacy of PTH at cancellous sites in patients with osteoporosis ( 92 , 104 - 106 ). Assessment of bone remodeling variables
