Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


subjects without PHPT, postmenopausal women with PHPT had higher bone volume (BV/TV), higher bone surface area (BS/TV), higher connectivity density (Conn.D), and lower trabecular separation (Tb.Sp.). There were also less marked age-related declines in BV/TV and Conn.D as compared to controls, with no decline in BS/TV. Using the technique of backscattered electron imaging (qBEI) to evaluate trabecular BMD distribution (BMDD) in iliac crest bone biopsies, Roschger et al ( 108 ) showed reduced average mineralization density and an increase in the heterogeneity of the degree of mineralization, consistent with reduced mean age of bone tissue. Studies of collagen maturity using Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy provide further support for these observations ( 109 ). Bone strength, therefore, in PHPT has to take into account a number of factors related to skeletal properties of bone besides BMD ( 110 ). NEW IMAGING TECHNIQUES Newer non-invasive skeletal imaging technologies offer new insight into the skeletal manifestations of PHPT beyond observations made by DXA and radiography. The trabecular bone score or TBS provides an indirect assessment of trabecular microstructure from the DXA image. In those without PHPT, it has been shown to predicts fracture independently of BMD ( 111 ). In PHPT, TBS reveals trabecular microstructural deterioration at the spine, despite preserved BMD by DXA at this site ( 112 ). High resolution peripheral quantitative CT (HRpQCT) is a technology that noninvasively and directly measures skeletal microstructure at the distal radius and tibia. Utilizing this technology, studies in patients with PHPT indicate not only cortical thinning, but additionally trabecular deficits at the radius and tibia ( Figure 2 ) ( 113 - 115 ). At the radius, trabeculae were fewer, thinner, more widely and heterogeneously spaced. At the tibia, trabeculae were more heterogeneously spaced ( 116 ). These deficits led to reduced stiffness when images were analyzed using microfinite element analysis, a technique that integrates structural and denisitometric information from the HRpQCT image into an estimated of mechanical competence. These recent findings, pointing to abnormalities in the trabecular compartment of bone, help to account for the increased risk of vertebral fractures (see below) observed in PHPT that had remained unexplained prior to the advent of such technologies ( 117 - 120 ). The difference in microskeletal abnormalities between the iliac crest bone biopsy data and HRpQCT may well reflect site-specific sampling differences. Figure 2. High-resolution peripheral quantitative CT images of the radius in a
