Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


in microskeletal abnormalities between the iliac crest bone biopsy data and HRpQCT may well reflect site-specific sampling differences. Figure 2. High-resolution peripheral quantitative CT images of the radius in a patient with primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT; left) and a normal control (right). Trabecular deterioration is evident in PHPT. Image from Stein EM, Silva BC, Boutroy S, et al. Primary hyperparathyroidism is associated with abnormal cortical and trabecular microstructure and reduced bone stiffness in postmenopausal women. J Bone Miner Res 2012 FRACTURES Fractures were a common clinical event in classic PHPT. In modern PHPT, one would anticipate, based on the BMD patterns observed with DXA, an increased risk of peripheral fractures, but a reduction in vertebral fractures. While not all studies are consistent and much of the data is retrospective and/or cross-sectional, the majority of studies suggest an increased risk for vertebral fractures in patients with PHPT ( 117 - 123 ). Moreover, recent data indicates that many vertebral fractures are in fact clinically silent ( 118 , 124 ). The paradox of increased vertebral fracture risk despite preserved lumbar spine BMD in PHPT had remained unclear until the advent of TBS and HRpQCT, which clearly document trabecular deficits in addition to previously recognized cortical skeletal deterioration. Using the Danish National Patient registry and a nested case-control design, Ejlsmark-Svensson et al. recently showed that vertebral fractures in patients with PHPT occur at a higher BMD than in patients without PHPT, again pointing to the importance of other elements of bone quality in PHPT ( 125 ). In one recent study, among asymptomatic PHPT patients, only those who met surgical guidelines showed a higher incidence of vertebral fractures compared with controls ( 118 ). The risk for hip fracture is not clearly increased in PHPT. In a study that focused on hip fracture, a population-based prospective analysis (mean of 17 years’ duration; 23,341 person years) showed women with PHPT in Sweden not to be at increased risk ( 126 ). The Mayo Clinic experience with PHPT and risk of fracture reviewed 407 cases of PHPT recognized during the 28-year period between 1965 and 1992 ( 117 ). Fracture risk was assessed by comparing fractures at a number of sites with numbers of fractures expected based on gender and age from the general population. The clinical presentation of these patients with PHPT was typical of the mild form of the disease, with the serum
