Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


expected based on gender and age from the general population. The clinical presentation of these patients with PHPT was typical of the mild form of the disease, with the serum calcium being only modestly elevated at 10.9 ± 0.6 mg/dL. The data from this retrospective epidemiologic study indicate that overall fracture risk was significantly increased at many sites such as the vertebral spine, the distal forearm, the ribs, and the pelvis. There was no increase in hip fractures. One might expect to see an increased incidence of distal forearm fractures as seen in the May study, because the hyperparathyroid process tends to lead to a reduction of cortical bone (distal forearm) in preference to cancellous bone (vertebral spine). Unfortunately, there were no densitometric data provided in this study, so one could not relate bone density to fracture incidence. The impact of PHPT on fracture incidence appears complex and may be site-specific. This relationship is likely influenced by site-specific changes in areal bone density, bone size, and microstructure. Excess PTH would induce cortical thinning due to endosteal bone resorption but would also increase periosteal apposition, thus increasing bone diameter. Decreased areal bone density would increase fracture risk, while increased bone diameter and preserved microstructure at certain sites, might protect against fractures. Prospective studies are needed to elucidate the site-specific risk of fracture in PHPT. Nephrolithiasis and Renal Function In the past, classic clinical descriptions of PHPT emphasized kidney stones as a principal complication of the disease ( 127 ). The cause of nephrolithiasis in PHPT is probably multifactorial. An increase in the amount of calcium filtered at the glomerulus resulting from hypercalcemia may lead to hypercalciuria despite the physiologic actions of PTH to facilitate calcium reabsorption. A component of absorptive hypercalciuria exists in this disorder. The enhanced intestinal calcium absorption is likely a result of increased production of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d, a consequence of PTH’s action to increase the synthesis of this active metabolite ( 128 ) ( 129 ). Indeed, urinary calcium excretion is correlated with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels ( 129 , 130 ). The skeleton provides yet another possible source for the increased levels of calcium in the glomerular filtrate. Hyperparathyroid bone resorption might contribute to hypercalciuria, and subsequently to nephrolithiasis, even though there is no convincing evidence to support this hypothesis ( 131 ). Finally, alteration in local urinary factors, such as a reduction in inhibitor activity or an
