Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


nephrolithiasis, even though there is no convincing evidence to support this hypothesis ( 131 ). Finally, alteration in local urinary factors, such as a reduction in inhibitor activity or an increase in stone-promoting factors, may predispose some patients with PHPT to nephrolithiasis ( 131 , 132 ). It remains unclear whether the urine of patients with hyperparathyroid stone disease is different in this regard from that of other stone formers. Studies in the 1970s and 1980s documented a higher incidence of renal stone disease than do reports of more recent experience. Although the incidence of symptomatic nephrolithiasis today is much less common than it was in classical PHPT, kidney stones remain the most common manifestation of symptomatic PHPT (see Table 1 ). Estimates suggest symptomatic kidney stones in 15% to 20% of all patients ( 133 ). Screening for asymptomatic nephrolithiasis, indicates that the prevalence is actually much higher and this is now recommended in the most recent set of guidelines on the management of asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism ( 134 - 138 ). The etiology of why stones develop in some but not others with PHPT has been postulated since the 1930s, but is still not well understood. In the 1930s, it was generally accepted that bone and stone disease did not coexist in the same patient with classic PHPT ( 2 , 139 ). Albright and Reifenstein ( 139 ) theorized that a low dietary calcium intake led to bone disease, whereas adequate or high dietary calcium levels caused stone disease. Dent et al ( 140 ), who provided convincing evidence against this construct, proposed the existence of two forms of circulating PTH, one causing renal stones and the other causing bone disease. A host of mechanisms, including differences in dietary calcium, calcium absorption, forms of circulating PTH, and levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d, were proposed to account for the clinical distinction between bone and stone disease in PHPT ( 131 , 140 ). Today, there is no clear evidence for two distinct subtypes of PHPT or that the process affecting the skeleton and kidneys occur in different subsets of patients ( 127 ). Cortical bone demineralization is as common and as extensive in those with and without nephrolithiasis ( 127 , 131 ). Although more recent work has suggested that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d plays an etiologic role in the development of nephrolithiasis in PHPT, not all studies are consistent with
