Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


127 , 131 ). Although more recent work has suggested that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d plays an etiologic role in the development of nephrolithiasis in PHPT, not all studies are consistent with this premise ( 127 , 131 , 132 , 138 , 141 ). Other investigations have shown risk factors for nephrolithiasis include younger age and male sex, whereas degree of hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria, PTH levels and other urinary factors have less consistently been associated ( 38 , 135 , 136 , 138 , 141 - 143 ). Hypomagnesuria has recently been associated with silent kidney stones in PHPT ( 144 ). Other renal manifestations of PHPT include hypercalciuria, which is seen in approximately 40% of patients, and nephrocalcinosis. The frequency of nephrocalcinosis is unknown, but it appears to be relatively uncommon today ( 135 ). Though there were clear reports of renal impairment in early descriptions of PHPT, the prevalence of renal dysfunction (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <60 ml/min) today in patients with mild PHPT is low with recent studies suggesting rates of 15–17% ( 39 , 145 , 146 ). Neither the severity of PHPT nor having a history of nephrolithiasis were risk factors for reduced eGFR in a 2014 study in those with mild PHPT; instead, traditional risk factors, such as age, hypertension, use of antihypertensive medication, and fasting glucose levels were associated with poorer kidney function ( 145 ). Longitudinal data is reassuring in this regard, as renal function remains stable in PHPT over long periods of follow-up ( 52 , 147 ). Other Organ Involvement CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Interest in the effect of PHPT on cardiovascular function is rooted in pathophysiologic observations of the hypercalcemic state. Hypercalcemia has been associated with increases in blood pressure, left ventricular hypertrophy, heart muscle hypercontractility, and arrhythmias ( 148 , 149 ). Furthermore, evidence of calcium deposition has been documented in the form of calcifications in the myocardium, heart valves, and coronary arteries. The association of overt cardiovascular symptomatology with modern-day PHPT is unclear because of inconsistencies between studies. An explanation for the inconsistent results reported in the literature on the cardiovascular manifestations of PHPT relates to the fact that the clinical profile of the disease has changed. As a result, the cohorts that have been studied have varied greatly in the severity of their underlying disease. This is particularly true in terms of the serum calcium and parathyroid hormone
