Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


result, the cohorts that have been studied have varied greatly in the severity of their underlying disease. This is particularly true in terms of the serum calcium and parathyroid hormone concentrations, with data from cohorts with marked hypercalcemia and hyperparathyroidism showing the most cardiovascular involvement. Because it is thought that both calcium and PTH can independently affect the cardiovascular system, such variability among cohorts can give rise to inconsistent results. Recent studies have focused on not only cardiovascular mortality, but also hypertension, coronary artery disease (CAD), valve calcification, left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), carotid disease, and vascular stiffness. Cardiovascular Mortality There is little doubt that in very active PHPT, cardiovascular mortality is increased ( 150 - 153 ). Of some interest are the postoperative observations in which the higher cardiovascular mortality rate persists for years after cure ( 154 ). These observations differ markedly from those in which asymptomatic PHPT has been studied. Although limited, the studies have not shown any increase in mortality ( 155 , 156 ). The Mayo Clinic studies help to bring these observations together. In the mildly hypercalcemic individuals, overall and cardiovascular mortality was reduced, but in those whose serum calcium was in the highest quartile, cardiovascular mortality was increased ( 156 ). The idea that the more common asymptomatic form of PHPT is not associated with increased mortality is supported by data from Nilsson et al ( 157 ) and by other studies ( 158 , 159 ) in which more recently enrolled subjects had better survival than those who entered earlier and presumably had more active disease. Hypertension Hypertension, a common feature of PHPT when it is part of a MEN syndrome with pheochromocytoma or hyperaldosteronism, has also been reported as more prevalent in sporadic, asymptomatic PHPT than in appropriately matched control groups. The mechanism of this association is unknown, and the condition does not clearly remit following cure of the hyperparathyroid state ( 68 , 70 , 160 - 163 ). Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) and Valve Calcification Both calcium and PTH have independently been shown to be associated with coronary heart disease ( 164 , 165 ). Aside from autopsy studies such as those of Roberts and Waller ( 166 ), in which coronary atherosclerosis was seen in patients with marked hypercalcemia (16.8 to 27.4 mg/dL), the more recent literature has been controversial. When CAD is present in PHPT, it is most
