Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


which coronary atherosclerosis was seen in patients with marked hypercalcemia (16.8 to 27.4 mg/dL), the more recent literature has been controversial. When CAD is present in PHPT, it is most likely due to traditional risk factors rather than the disease itself ( 159 , 167 , 168 ). Some studies have actually shown that in mild PHPT, there is better exercise tolerance as determined by the electrocardiogram ( 169 ). Valve calcification, which is present in severe PHPT, has been shown to be more extensive (greater valve area) when present in those with mild PHPT versus controls ( 149 , 170 , 171 ), and is associated with increased PTH levels but it is not reversible with parathyroidectomy ( 171 ). Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is a strong predictor of cardiovascular disease and mortality ( 172 , 173 ). LVH has been associated with PHPT in many, but not all, studies ( 174 ). A 2015 meta-analysis indicated that parathyroidectomy is associated with a decline in left ventricular mass and that higher levels of PTH pre-operatively predict a greater cardiovascular benefit. However, dissociating disease severity from study design (RCTs included individuals with lower levels of calcium and PTH than those included in observational studies) was not possible ( 175 ). Vascular Function Conflicting data exist regarding whether intima media thickness is increased in PHPT ( 176 - 180 ). Multiple studies have reported increased vascular stiffness, sometimes associated with PTH levels, in mild PHPT, but its reversibility with parathyroidectomy is inconsistent ( 180 - 183 ). Given conflicting data, most experts do not consider cardiovascular disease to be an indication for parathyroidectomy ( 137 ). NEUROLOGICAL, PSYCHOLOGICAL, AND COGNITIVE FEATURES Descriptions of classical PHPT do indeed indicate neuropsychological features ( 2 , 184 ). The extent to which these features remain a part of the modern picture of PHPT as well as the exact mechanisms underlying them is unclear. Perhaps the most common complaints have been those of weakness and easy fatigability ( 67 ). Classic PHPT was formerly associated with a distinct neuromuscular syndrome characterized by type II muscle cell atrophy ( 185 ). Originally described by Vicale in 1949 ( 186 ), the syndrome consisted of easy fatigability, symmetric proximal muscle weakness, and muscle atrophy. Both the clinical and electromyographic features of this disorder were reversible after parathyroid surgery ( 187 , 188 ). In
