Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


of easy fatigability, symmetric proximal muscle weakness, and muscle atrophy. Both the clinical and electromyographic features of this disorder were reversible after parathyroid surgery ( 187 , 188 ). In the milder, less symptomatic form of the disease that is common today, this disorder is rarely seen ( 189 ). In a group of 42 patients with mild disease, none had complaints consistent with the classic neuromuscular dysfunction described previously. Although more than half of all patients expressed nonspecific complaints of paresthesias and muscle cramps, electromyographic studies did not confirm the picture of past observations. The “psychic groans” described by early observers of patients with classic PHPT remain a source of controversy today. Patients with PHPT often report some degree of behavioral and/or psychiatric symptomatology. A retrospective inquiry of patients with more severe disease showed a 23% incidence of psychiatric symptomatology (n = 441) ( 190 ). A number of studies suggest, however, that even ‘mild PHPT’ (serum calcium <12 mg/dl) is associated with non-specific symptoms such as depression, anxiety, fatigue, decreased quality of life (QOL), sleep disturbance, and cognitive dysfunction. Many, but not all, observational studies have indicated these features improve after parathyroidectomy ( 191 ). Three RCTs have investigated the reversibility of reduced QOL and psychiatric symptoms ( 192 - 194 ). Despite being of similar design and using similar assessment tools, all three randomized controlled trials came to different conclusions; one randomized controlled trial suggested parathyroidectomy prevents worsening of QOL and improves psychiatric symptoms ( 193 ); another randomized controlled trial indicated no benefit; and the third randomized controlled trial demonstrated improvement in QOL ( 192 , 194 ). One randomized controlled trial investigated changes in cognition after parathyroidectomy, but its small size precluded definitive conclusions being drawn ( 195 ). While less well studied, some, but not all, studies have demonstrated reduced memory or impairment in other cognitive domains ( 195 - 201 ). It is unclear if cognition improves after parathyroidectomy because results of studies in which longitudinal control groups are compared to those undergoing parathyroidectomy are inconsistent ( 197 , 199 , 202 - 204 ). Recent work has turned to the potential mechanisms that contribute to cognitive dysfunction in PHPT. Our latest studies have addressed this issue. We hypothesized that cerebrovascular dysfunction (i.e., vascular stiffness) might underlie cognitive changes in patients with PHPT. While PTH correlated with cerebrovascular function as measured by transcranial
