Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


have addressed this issue. We hypothesized that cerebrovascular dysfunction (i.e., vascular stiffness) might underlie cognitive changes in patients with PHPT. While PTH correlated with cerebrovascular function as measured by transcranial Doppler, there was no consistent association between cerebrovascular function and cognitive performance ( 205 ). In a separate study, we utilized functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess if cerebral activation was altered by PHPT. Functional magnetic resonance imaging, or fMRI, is a non-invasive tool that maps brain function based on changes in blood flow ( 206 ). We found that PHPT was associated with differences in task-related neural activation patterns but no difference in cognitive performance. This may indicate compensation to maintain the same cognitive function, but there was no clear improvement in neural activation after parathyroidectomy ( 206 ). At present, most experts do not recognize cognitive or psychiatric symptoms as a sole indication for parathyroidectomy. Reasons for this include the failure to clearly demonstrate reversibility in randomized controlled trials, the inability to predict which patients might improve and a lack of a clear mechanism ( 137 ). GASTROINTESTINAL MANIFESTATIONS Primary hyperparathyroidism has long been considered associated with an increased incidence of peptic ulcer disease. Most recent studies suggest that the incidence of peptic ulcer disease in PHPT is approximately 10%, a figure similar to its percentage in the general population. An increased incidence of peptic ulcer disease is seen in patients with PHPT resulting from MEN1, in which approximately 40% of patients have clinically apparent gastrinomas (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome). In those patients, PHPT is associated with increased clinical severity of gastrinoma, and treatment of the associated PHPT has been reported to benefit patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome ( 207 , 208 ). Despite this, current recommendations (Consensus Conference Guidelines for Therapy of MEN1) state that the coexistence of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome does not represent sufficient indication for parathyroidectomy, because medical therapy is so successful ( 208 ). Although hypercalcemia can underlie pancreatitis, most large series have not reported an increased incidence of pancreatitis in patients with PHPT with serum calcium levels less than 12 mg/dL. The Mayo Clinic experience from 1950 to 1975 showed that only 1.5% of those with PHPT exhibited coexisting pancreatitis, and alternative explanations for pancreatitis were found for several patients. Regarding pancreatitis in pregnancy in patients with PHPT, these conditions may coexist, but there is no evidence for a causal relationship between the disorders ( 209 ).
