Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


for several patients. Regarding pancreatitis in pregnancy in patients with PHPT, these conditions may coexist, but there is no evidence for a causal relationship between the disorders ( 209 ). OTHER SYSTEMIC INVOLVEMENT Many organ systems were affected by the hyperparathyroid state in the past. Anemia, band keratopathy, and loose teeth are no longer part of the clinical syndrome of PHPT. Gout and pseudogout are seen infrequently, and their etiologic relationship to PHPT is not clear. Unusual Presentations NEONATAL PRIMARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Neonatal PHPT is a rare form of the disorder caused by homozygous inactivation of the calcium-sensing receptor ( 210 ). When present in a heterozygous form, it is a benign hypercalcemic state known as familial hypercalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH). However, in the homozygous neonatal form, hypercalcemia is severe and the outcome is fatal unless recognized early. The treatment of choice is early subtotal parathyroidectomy to remove the majority of hyperplastic parathyroid tissue. PRIMARY HYPERPARATHYROISM IN PREGNANCY Primary hyperparathyroidism in pregnancy is primarily of concern for its potential effect on the fetus and neonate ( 211 , 212 ). Potential complications of PHPT in pregnancy include spontaneous abortion, low birth weight, supravalvular aortic stenosis, and neonatal tetany. The last condition is a result of fetal parathyroid gland suppression by high levels of maternal calcium, which readily crosses the placenta during pregnancy. These infants, accustomed to hypercalcemia in utero, have functional hypoparathyroidism after birth, and can develop hypocalcemia and tetany in the first few days of life. Today, with most patients (pregnant or not) presenting with a mild form of PHPT, an individualized approach to the management of the pregnant patient with PHPT is advised. A recent retrospective study suggested that PHPT did not increase the risk of abortion, birth weight, length, or Apgar score ( 213 ). Thus, many of those with mild disease can be followed safely, with successful neonatal outcomes without surgery. However, parathyroidectomy during the second trimester remains the traditional recommendation for this condition. ACUTE PRIMARY HYPERPARATHYROIDISM Acute PHPT is known variously as parathyroid crisis , parathyroid poisoning , parathyroid intoxication , and parathyroid storm. Acute PHPT describes an episode of life-threatening hypercalcemia of sudden onset in a patient with PHPT ( 214 , 215 ). Clinical manifestations of acute PHPT are mainly those associated with severe hypercalcemia. Nephrocalcinosis or nephrolithiasis is frequently seen. Radiologic evidence of subperiosteal bone resorption is also commonly present. Laboratory evaluation is remarkable
