Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


of acute PHPT are mainly those associated with severe hypercalcemia. Nephrocalcinosis or nephrolithiasis is frequently seen. Radiologic evidence of subperiosteal bone resorption is also commonly present. Laboratory evaluation is remarkable not only for very high serum calcium levels but also for extremely high levels in PTH to approximately 20 times normal ( 215 ). In this way, acute PHPT resembles, in biochemical terms, parathyroid carcinoma. A history of persistent mild hypercalcemia has been reported in 25% of patients. However, given the rarity of this condition, the risk of developing acute PHPT in a patient with mild asymptomatic PHPT is very low. Intercurrent medical illness with immobilization may precipitate acute PHPT. Early diagnosis, with aggressive medical management followed by surgical cure, is essential for a successful outcome. The initial impression of patients who present in this manner, without an antecedent history of hypercalcemia, is often mistaken for malignancy. However, the parathyroid hormone level usually quickly clarifies the diagnosis to PHPT in most situations. PARATHYROID CANCER An indolent yet potentially fatal disease, parathyroid carcinoma accounts for less than 0.5% of cases of PHPT. In contrast to patients with PHPT due to benign parathyroid pathology, patients with parathyroid carcinoma typically have marked elevations in serum calcium and PHT. The cause of the disease is unknown, and no clear risk factors have been identified except for hereditary syndromes. There is no evidence to support the malignant degeneration of previously benign parathyroid adenomas ( 216 ). Parathyroid carcinoma has been reported particularly in hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor (HPT-JT) syndrome ( 217 - 221 ), a rare autosomal disorder in which as many as 15% of patients will have malignant parathyroid disease. Because cystic changes are common, this disorder has also been referred to as cystic parathyroid adenomatosis ( 222 ) . In HPT-JT, ossifying fibromas of the maxilla and mandible are seen in 30% of cases. Less commonly, kidney lesions, including cysts, polycystic disease, hamartomas, or Wilms’ tumors, can be present ( 223 ). Parathyroid carcinoma has also been reported in familial isolated hyperparathyroidism ( 218 , 224 ). Parathyroid carcinoma, as defined pathologically, has been reported in MEN1 syndrome and with somatic MEN1 mutations ( 225 - 227 ). However, recurrent parathyroid disease in MEN1 may mimic but might not actually be a result of malignancy. Only one case of parathyroid carcinoma has been reported in the MEN2A syndrome ( 228 ). Loss of the retinoblastoma
