Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


mimic but might not actually be a result of malignancy. Only one case of parathyroid carcinoma has been reported in the MEN2A syndrome ( 228 ). Loss of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene was formerly considered a marker for parathyroid cancer ( 229 ), but more recent studies do not unequivocally support this impression ( 230 ). Work by Shattuck et al ( 231 , 232 ) has provided new insights into the molecular pathogenesis of parathyroid cancer. Parathyroid carcinomas from 10 of 15 patients with sporadic parathyroid cancer carried a mutation in the HRPT2 gene. The HRPT2 gene encodes for the parafibromin protein that was shown to be mutated in a substantial number of patients with parathyroid cancer. Marcocci et al ( 216 ) have reviewed this topic, pointing out a potential role for parafibromin in parathyroid cancer. In three of 15 patients with parathyroid cancer, Shattuck et al ( 231 ) showed that the mutation was in the germline. The presence of the mutation in the germline suggests that this disease might be related in some way to the HPT-JT syndrome, in which this gene has been implicated ( 231 ). In addition, there is an increased risk of parathyroid cancer in the HPT-JT syndrome. In fact, certain clinical features in patients with a germline mutation and in their relatives are indicative of the HPT-JT syndrome or phenotypic variants ( 220 , 223 , 224 ). Manifestations of hypercalcemia are the primary effects of parathyroid cancer. The disease tends not to have a bulk tumor effect, spreading slowly in the neck. Metastatic disease is a late finding, with lung (40%), liver (10%), and lymph node (30%) involvement seen most commonly. The clinical profile of parathyroid cancer differs from that of benign PHPT in several important ways ( 216 ). First, no female predominance is seen among patients with carcinoma. Second, elevations in serum calcium and PTH are far greater. Consequently, the hyperparathyroid disease tends to be much more severe, with the classic targets of PTH excess involved in most cases. Nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis is seen in up to 60% of patients; overt radiologic evidence of skeletal involvement is seen in 35% to 90% of patients. A palpable neck mass, distinctly unusual in benign PHPT, has been reported in 30% to 76% of patients with parathyroid cancer ( 233 ). Grossly, malignant glands are large, often exceeding 12 g.
