Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


mass, distinctly unusual in benign PHPT, has been reported in 30% to 76% of patients with parathyroid cancer ( 233 ). Grossly, malignant glands are large, often exceeding 12 g. They tend to be adherent to adjacent structures. Microscopically, thick, fibrous bands divide the trabecular arrangement of the tumor cells. Capsular and blood vessel invasion is common by these cells, which often contain mitotic figures ( 233 ). Treatment is reviewed below. Parathyromatosis Originally reported in 1975, fewer than one-hundred cases of parathyromatosis have been described in the literature ( 234 , 235 ). The condition is characterized histologically by small collections or nodules of parathyroid cells embedded within surrounding soft tissue outside the parathyroid gland capsule margins ( 24 , 236 ). Parathyromatosis may rarely be embryologic in origin or, more often, is secondary to tissue seeding during parathyroid surgery or fine needle aspiration ( 24 , 234 , 237 ). The majority of cases have been described in those who have undergone parathyroid surgery for secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with end-stage renal disease ( 24 , 235 ). While clinically and biochemically similar to primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyromatosis is associated with recurrent or persistent disease ( 24 ). The diagnosis is typically made at the time of surgery, although pre-operative imaging has been reported to be diagnostically helpful ( 238 , 239 ). Management is challenging and complete cure is uncommon. Treatment involves complete surgical excision of all parathyromatosis nodules and/or parathyroid tissue ( 24 , 240 ). Intra-operative parathyroid hormone level monitoring and pathologic review of frozen sections at the time of surgery may be helpful to increase surgical success. Successful accounts of medical therapy with calcimimetics and bisphosphonates have been reported ( 24 , 235 ). EVALUATION The diagnosis of PHPT is confirmed by demonstrating an elevated or inappropriately normal PTH level in the face of hypercalcemia. Further biochemical assessment should include serum phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase activity, vitamin D metabolites, albumin, and creatinine. A morning 2-hour or 24-hour urine collection should be obtained for calcium and creatinine. A urinary bone resorption marker such as serum CTX or urinary N-telopeptide can be helpful. Bone densitometry is performed in all patients. It is important to obtain densitometry at three sites: the lumbar spine, the hip, and the distal third of the radius. Because of the differing amounts of cortical and cancellous bone at the three sites and the different effects
