Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


the lumbar spine, the hip, and the distal third of the radius. Because of the differing amounts of cortical and cancellous bone at the three sites and the different effects of PTH on cortical and cancellous bone, measurement at all three sites gives the most accurate clinical assessment of skeletal involvement in PHPT. Bone biopsy is not routinely obtained in the evaluation of PHPT, but is essential in research. In the most recent guidelines, spinal imaging is recommended to assess for clinically silent vertebral fractures ( 137 ). This can be vertebral X-rays, vertebral fracture assessment or TBS score, the latter two obtained by the DXA image. While symptomatic kidney stones are present in 15% to 20% of patients by history, the finding that many more have clinically silent nephrolithiasis has led to the recommendation to obtain renal ultrasound, CT, or abdominal x-ray to assess for either nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis. NATURAL HISTORY Since the early 1990s, new knowledge of the natural history of PHPT with or without surgery has been very helpful in guiding decisions regarding surgery in patients with asymptomatic PHPT. The authors and their colleagues have conducted the longest prospective observational trial ( 52 , 241 ). This project began in 1984 in an effort to define the natural history of asymptomatic PHPT. The study included detailed analyses of pathophysiologic, densitometric, histomorphometric, and other skeletal features of PHPT ( 52 , 241 ). Much of the information gleaned from that study has been summarized already in this chapter. The 15-year follow-up to this study constitutes the longest natural-history study of this disorder ( 241 ). Recommendations for surgery or observation were made based on the 1990 set of National Institutes of Health guidelines, but both groups included patients who did or did not meet surgical guidelines. This is because some patients opted for surgery even if they did not meet the guidelines, whereas others opted for a conservative approach even if they did meet guidelines for surgery. As will be described in the following sections, this imperfect design was followed by three studies that were truly randomized but were of much shorter duration. The results with regard to natural history from all studies are remarkably concordant. Natural History with Surgery Successful parathyroidectomy results in permanent normalization of the serum calcium and PTH levels. Postoperatively, there is a marked improvement in BMD at all sites (lumbar spine, femoral neck,
