Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


with Surgery Successful parathyroidectomy results in permanent normalization of the serum calcium and PTH levels. Postoperatively, there is a marked improvement in BMD at all sites (lumbar spine, femoral neck, and distal one-third radius) amounting to gains greater than 10% ( 52 ) ( Figure 3 ), The improvement is most rapid at the lumbar spine, followed by gains at the hip regions and the distal 1/3 radius during the 15-year follow-up ( 241 ). The improvements were seen in those who met and did not meet surgical criteria at study entry, confirming the salutary effect of parathyroidectomy in this regard on all patients. Figure 3. Improvement in bone density after parathyroid surgery. Data shown are the cumulative percentage changes from baseline over 15 years of follow-up in patients who underwent parathyroidectomy. Natural History Without Surgery In subjects who did not undergo parathyroid surgery, serum calcium remained stable for about 12 years, with a tendency for the serum calcium level to rise in years 13 to 15 ( 241 ). Other biochemical indices such as PTH, vitamin D metabolites, and urinary calcium did not change for the entire 15 years of follow-up in the group as a whole. Bone density at all three sites remained stable for the first 8 to 10 years. However, after this period of stability, declining cortical BMD was seen at the hip and more dramatically at the distal one-third radius site. Although the numbers became limiting after 10 years of follow-up, it is noteworthy that a small majority of the subjects lost more than 10% of their BMD during the 15 years of observation. Even though this decline was observed in the majority of subjects, only 37% of subjects met one or more guidelines for surgery after the 15 years of follow-up. Randomized Studies of the Natural History of Asymptomatic Primary Hyperparathyroidism The long natural history study of asymptomatic PHPT has added much to our knowledge about this disease throughout time. Subsequent randomized trials confirm the observational data, but are limited by their shorter duration. In 2004, Rao et al ( 242 ) reported on 53 subjects, assigned either to parathyroid surgery (n = 25) or to no surgery (n = 28). The follow-up lasted for at least 2 years. There was a significant effect of parathyroidectomy on BMD at the hip and femoral neck but not the spine or forearm. Bollerslev et al (
