Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


for at least 2 years. There was a significant effect of parathyroidectomy on BMD at the hip and femoral neck but not the spine or forearm. Bollerslev et al ( 192 ) reported in 2007 the interim results of their randomized trial of parathyroidectomy versus no surgery. This study from three Scandinavian countries was larger, with 191 patients who were randomized to medical observation or to surgery. After surgery, biochemical indices normalized and BMD increased. In the group that did not undergo parathyroid surgery, BMD did not change. Also, in 2007, Ambrogini et al ( 194 ) reported the results of their randomized controlled trial of parathyroidectomy versus observation. Surgery was associated with a significant increase in BMD of the lumbar spine and hip after 1 year. Whether fracture risk decreases after parathyroidectomy is not clear. The study by Bollerslev reported on vertebral fracture risk reduction at 5 years after initial treatment allocation. That study indicated that successful parathyroidectomy versus observation was associated with a reduction in vertebral fracture risk that was of borderline statistical significance ( 243 ). GUIDELINES FOR PARATHYROIDECTOMY Parathyroidectomy remains the only currently available option to cure PHPT. As the disease profile has changed, questions have arisen concerning the advisability of surgery in asymptomatic patients. If asymptomatic patients have a benign natural history, the surgical alternative is not an attractive one. On the other hand, asymptomatic patients may display levels of hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria that cause concern for the future. Similarly, bone-mass measurements can be frankly low. In an effort to address such issues, there have been four consensus development conferences (in 1991, 2002, 2008, and 2013) on the management of asymptomatic PHPT ( 89 , 137 , 244 - 247 ). The most recent guidelines that emerged from the 2013 conference are helpful to the clinician faced with the asymptomatic hyperparathyroid patient: All symptomatic patients are advised to undergo parathyroidectomy. Surgery is advised in asymptomatic patients with ( 1 ) serum calcium greater than 1 mg/dL higher than the upper limit of normal; ( 2 ) renal guidelines: reduction in creatinine clearance to less than 60 mL/min; urinary calcium excretion >400 mg/24 h with increased stone risk; or presence of nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis on renal imaging; ( 3 ) skeletal guidelines: reduced bone density T-score < –2.5 at any site; or vertebral compression fracture on an imaging study; and ( 4 ) age younger than
