Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


imaging; ( 3 ) skeletal guidelines: reduced bone density T-score < –2.5 at any site; or vertebral compression fracture on an imaging study; and ( 4 ) age younger than 50 years. The most recent guidelines are shown in Table 5 . A noteworthy change in the guidelines reflects the fact that asymptomatic kidney stones and vertebral compression fractures are now considered as indications for parathyroidectomy. Table 5. Comparison of New and Old Guidelines for Surgery in Asymptomatic Primary Hyperparathyroidism View in own window 1990 NIH Consensus Conference 2002 NIH Workshop 2008 International Workshop 2013 International Workshop Serum calcium 1-1.6 mg/dL elevation 1.0 mg/dL elevation 1.0 mg/dL elevation 1.0 mg/dL elevation Renal 24-h urine calcium >400 mg Creatinine Cl reduced by 30% 24-h urine calcium >400 mg Creatinine Cl reduced by 30% No 24-h urine Creatinine clearance: <60 mL/min 24-h urine for FHH/stone risk U Ca >400 mg/day Creatinine clearance: <60 mL/min Calcification on renal imaging Bone Z-score < −2.0 in forearm T-score < −2.5 at any site T-score < −2.5 Fragility fracture T-score < −2.5 Vertebral fracture on imaging Age <50 <50 <50 <50 FHH, Familial hypercalciuric hypercalcemia. Columns 3 and 4 modified from Bilezikian JP, Brandi ML, Eastell R, et al: Guidelines for the management of asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism: summary statement from the Fourth International Workshop, J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014; 99:3561-3569 A number of points were discussed that did not lead to specific recommendations, including the issues of the neurocognitive and cardiovascular aspects of PHPT. The workshop panel also acknowledged a potential role of vitamin D deficiency in fueling processes associated with abnormal parathyroid glandular activity. Finally, the panel also reaffirmed the entity of normocalcemic PHPT, but noted that there are insufficient data to provide evidence-based guidelines for management. SURGERY A large percentage of those patients who meet the surgical guidelines listed in Table 5 are asymptomatic. Some asymptomatic patients who meet surgical guidelines elect not to have surgery for varying reasons including personal choice, intercurrent medical conditions, and previous unsuccessful parathyroid surgery. Conversely, there are patients who meet none of the NIH guidelines for parathyroidectomy but opt for surgery nevertheless. Physician and patient input remain important factors in the decision regarding parathyroid surgery. Preoperative Localization of Hyperfunctioning Parathyroid Tissue A number of imaging tests have been developed and have been applied singly or in combination to address the challenge of preoperative localization. The rationale for locating
