Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


Hyperfunctioning Parathyroid Tissue A number of imaging tests have been developed and have been applied singly or in combination to address the challenge of preoperative localization. The rationale for locating abnormal parathyroid tissue before surgery is that the glands can be notoriously unpredictable in their location. Although most parathyroid adenomas are identified in regions proximate to their embryologically intended position (the four poles of the thyroid gland), many are not. In such situations, previous surgical experience and skill are needed to locate the ectopic parathyroid gland. In such hands, 95% of abnormal parathyroid glands will be discovered and removed at the time of initial parathyroid surgery. However, in the patient with previous neck surgery, even expert parathyroid surgeons do not generally achieve such high success rates. Preoperative localization of the abnormal parathyroid tissue can be extremely helpful under these circumstances. Preoperative imaging is also necessary for any patient who will undergo parathyroidectomy using a minimally invasive approach. Imaging studies should not be used for the diagnosis of PHPT because the sensitivity and specificity of various imaging modalities varies with some having false-positive rates as high as 25% ( 248 ). NONINVASIVE IMAGING Noninvasive parathyroid imaging studies include technetium (Tc)-99m sestamibi scintigraphy, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) scanning, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning. Tc-99m sestamibi is generally regarded to be the most sensitive and specific imaging modality, especially when it is combined with single-photon emission CT (SPECT). For the single parathyroid adenoma, sensitivity has ranged from 80% to 100%, with a 5% to 10% false-positive rate. On the other hand, sestamibi scintigraphy and the other localization tests have a relatively poor record in the context of multiglandular disease ( 249 ). The success of ultrasonography is highly operator dependent ( 250 ). In centers where there is great expertise, this noninvasive approach is most attractive. Abnormalities identified by ultrasound as possible parathyroid tissue may prove to be a thyroid nodule or lymph node, which underscores the importance of the skill and experience of the ultrasonographer. Rapid spiral thin-slice CT scanning of the neck and mediastinum with evaluation of axial, coronal, and sagittal views can add much to the search for elusive parathyroid tissue, albeit with attendant higher radiation exposure ( 251 ). Four-dimensional (4D) CT has emerged as a promising method and consists of multiphase CT acquired at non-contrast, contrast-enhanced, arterial and delayed phases. In a recent
