Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


radiation exposure ( 251 ). Four-dimensional (4D) CT has emerged as a promising method and consists of multiphase CT acquired at non-contrast, contrast-enhanced, arterial and delayed phases. In a recent study, 4D CT was superior compared with sestamibi SPECT/CT ( 252 ). MRI can also identify abnormal parathyroid tissue, but it is time consuming and expensive. It is also less sensitive than the other noninvasive modalities. It can nonetheless be useful when the search with these other noninvasive approaches has been unsuccessful. PET with or without simultaneous CT scan (PET/CT) can be used, but like MRI, it is expensive and does not have the kind of experiential basis that make it attractive. There are also specificity issues because FDG, the scanning agent, accumulates in the thyroid, making differentiation between parathyroid adenoma and thyroid nodules difficult. Recently, 18F-fluorocholine (FCH) positron emission tomography (PET) has been employed for the detection of parathyroid adenomas. INVASIVE IMAGING Parathyroid Fine-Needle Aspiration Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) of a parathyroid gland, identified by any of the aforementioned modalities, can be performed and the aspirate analyzed for PTH. This technique is not recommended for routine de novo cases.( 253 ) A theoretical concern with this approach is the possibility that parathyroid cells could be deposited outside the parathyroid gland in the course of the aspiration. Autoseeding of parathyroid tissue would be an unwanted consequence of this procedure if it were to occur. Arteriography and Selective Venous Sampling for Parathyroid Hormone In situations where the gland has not been identified by any of the techniques described, the combination of arteriography and selective venous sampling can provide both anatomic and functional localization of abnormal parathyroid tissue. This approach, however, is costly and requires an experienced interventional radiologist. It is also performed in only a few centers in the United States. This approach is reserved for those individuals who have undergone previous unsuccessful parathyroid surgery in whom all other localization techniques have failed ( 254 ). Surgical Approach In the hands of an expert parathyroid surgeon, parathyroidectomy is a successful with infrequent complications. A standard surgical approach is the four-gland parathyroid exploration under general or local anesthesia, with or without preoperative localization. This approach has been reported to lead to surgical cure in more than 95% of cases ( 255 ). Several alternative approaches have emerged that focus on the single gland and not the total four-gland neck exploration that was routinely
