Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


in more than 95% of cases ( 255 ). Several alternative approaches have emerged that focus on the single gland and not the total four-gland neck exploration that was routinely used in the past. Unilateral approaches are appealing for a disease in which most often only a single gland is involved. These procedures include a unilateral operation in which the gland on the same side that harbors the adenoma is ascertained to be normal. Because multiple parathyroid adenomas are unusual, a normal parathyroid gland is considered by some to be sufficient evidence for single-gland disease. Another limited surgical approach that has emerged in many centers as the approach of choice is the minimally invasive parathyroidectomy (MIP) ( 256 , 257 ). Preoperative parathyroid imaging is necessary, and the procedure is directed only to the site where the abnormal parathyroid gland has been visualized ( 258 ). Preoperative blood is obtained for comparison of the PTH concentration with an intraoperative sample(s) obtained after removal of the “abnormal” parathyroid gland. The availability of a rapid PTH assay in or near the operating room is necessary for this procedure. If the ten-minute post-excision PTH level falls by more than 50% compared to baseline, and into the normal range, the gland that has been removed is considered to be the sole source of overactive parathyroid tissue, and the operation is terminated. If the PTH level does not fall by more than 50%, into the normal range, the operation is extended to a more traditional one in a search for other overactive parathyroid tissue. There is a risk (albeit small) that the minimally invasive procedure may miss other overactive gland(s) that are suppressed in the presence of a dominant gland. The MIP procedure seems to be as successful, in the range of 95% to 98%, as more standard approaches ( 259 , 260 ). According to a recent meta-analysis that included more than 12,000 patients, MIP was associated with similar rates of success, disease recurrence, persistence, overall failure, and reoperation ( 261 ). The operative time was significantly shorter, with a lower overall complication rate for MIP compared to bilateral neck exploration. In Europe, MIP is being performed with an endoscopic camera, but this does not offer any advantage other than a smaller incision ( 262 , 263 ). Yet another variation on this theme is the use of preoperative sestamibi scanning with an intraoperative
