Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


not offer any advantage other than a smaller incision ( 262 , 263 ). Yet another variation on this theme is the use of preoperative sestamibi scanning with an intraoperative gamma probe to help locate enlarged parathyroid glands. Immediate Postoperative Course After surgery, biochemical indices return rapidly to normal ( 52 , 264 ). Serum calcium and PTH levels normalize, and urinary calcium excretion falls by as much as 50%. Serum calcium levels no longer fall rapidly into the hypocalcemic range, a situation characteristic of an earlier time when PHPT was a symptomatic disease with overt skeletal involvement. The acute reversal of PHPT was associated with a robust deposition of calcium into the skeleton at a pace that could not be compensated for by supplemental calcium. Thus, postoperative hypocalcemia was routine and was sometimes a serious short-term complication (“hungry bone syndrome”). Occasionally, postoperative hypocalcemia still occurs, especially if preoperative bone turnover markers are markedly elevated or there is concomitant vitamin D deficiency. More typically, however, the early postoperative course is not complicated by symptomatic hypocalcemia. After successful parathyroid surgery, biochemical indices of the disease return to normal and BMD improves, as mentioned. The capacity of the skeleton to restore itself is seen dramatically in young patients with severe PHPT. Kulak et al ( 265 ) reported two patients with osteitis fibrosa cystica who experienced increases in bone density that ranged from 260% to 430% in a period of 3 to 4 years following surgery. Tritos and Hartzband ( 266 ) and DiGregorio ( 267 ) have made similar observations. MEDICAL MANAGEMENT Patients who do not meet any surgical guidelines are often followed without intervention. The most recent guidelines for management of asymptomatic PHPT restated the position that it is reasonable to pursue a nonsurgical course of management for those who do not meet criteria for surgery, at least for a period of years. In those patients who are not going to have parathyroid surgery, the Workshop ( 137 ) suggested a set of monitoring steps that are summarized in Table 6 . This includes annual measurements of the serum calcium concentration, a calculated creatinine clearance, and regular monitoring of BMD. Table 6. Comparison of New and Old Management Guidelines for Patients with Asymptomatic Primary Hyperparathyroidism Who Do Not Undergo Parathyroid Surgery View in own window Measurement Older Guidelines Newer Guidelines Serum calcium Semiannually Annually 24-h urinary calcium Annually Not recommended
