Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


Patients with Asymptomatic Primary Hyperparathyroidism Who Do Not Undergo Parathyroid Surgery View in own window Measurement Older Guidelines Newer Guidelines Serum calcium Semiannually Annually 24-h urinary calcium Annually Not recommended Creatinine clearance Annually Not recommended Serum creatinine Annually Annually Bone density Annually Annually or biannually Abdominal x-ray Annually Not recommended From Bilezikian JP, Brandi ML, Eastell R, et al: Guidelines for the management of asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism: summary statement from the Fourth International Workshop, J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014; 99:3561-3569. Ideal medical therapy of PHPT would provide the equivalent to a medical parathyroidectomy. Such an agent would normalize serum calcium and PTH levels as well as urinary calcium excretion, increase BMD and lower fracture risk, and reduce the risk of kidney stones. Unfortunately, no currently available single drug meets all these criteria. The following medications can achieve some of these goals and might be considered in patients not having surgery in whom it is desirable to lower serum or urinary calcium levels or increase BMD. General Measures Patients should be instructed to remain well hydrated and to avoid, if possible, medications that can increase serum calcium (e.g. thiazide diuretics). Prolonged immobilization, which can raise the serum calcium concentration further and induce hypercalciuria, should also be avoided. DIET AND SUPPLEMENTS Dietary management of PHPT has long been an area of controversy. Many patients are advised to limit their dietary calcium intake because of the hypercalcemia. However, it is well known that low dietary calcium can lead to increased PTH levels in normal individuals ( 268 - 270 ). In patients with PHPT, even though the abnormal PTH tissue is not as sensitive to slight perturbations in the circulating calcium concentration, it is still possible that PTH levels will rise when dietary calcium is tightly restricted. Conversely, diets enriched in calcium could suppress PTH levels in PHPT, as shown by Insogna et al ( 271 ). Dietary calcium could also be variably influenced by ambient levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. In patients with normal levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d, Locker et al ( 272 ) noted no difference in urinary calcium excretion between those on high (1000 mg/day) and low (500 mg/day) calcium intake diets. On the other hand, in those with elevated levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d, high calcium diets were associated with worsening hypercalciuria. This observation suggests that dietary calcium intake in patients can be liberalized to 1000 mg/day if 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels
