Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d, high calcium diets were associated with worsening hypercalciuria. This observation suggests that dietary calcium intake in patients can be liberalized to 1000 mg/day if 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels are not increased but should be more tightly controlled if 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels are elevated. Although calcium supplements are not specifically recommended in those with PHPT and osteoporosis, small doses do not seem to exacerbate hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria if the diet is deficient ( 273 ). Most experts recommend that patients with PHPT who are going to be followed without surgery have an intake of calcium that is consistent with nutritional guidelines for a normal population. Recent guidelines recommend maintaining 25-hydroxyvitamin D to levels of 21–30 ng/ml with conservative doses of vitamin D (600–1000 IU daily) based on data showing that vitamin D repletion lowers PTH levels ( 274 ). Higher levels of vitamin D might be beneficial. A 2014 RCT of cholecalciferol (2,800 IU daily versus placebo) indicated that treatment increased 25-hydroxyvitamin d levels from 20 ng/ml to 37.8 ng/ml, lowered levels of PTH, and increased lumbar spine BMD without having a deleterious effect on serum or urinary calcium levels ( 275 ). PHARMACEUTICALS Phosphate Oral phosphate can lower the serum calcium by up to 1 mg/dL ( 276 , 277 ). A complex interplay of mechanisms leads to this moderating effect of oral phosphate. First, calcium absorption falls in the presence of intestinal phosphorus. Second, concomitant increases in serum phosphorus will tend to reduce circulating 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels. Third, phosphate can be an antiresorptive agent. Finally, increased serum phosphorus reciprocally lowers serum calcium. Problems with oral phosphate include limited gastrointestinal tolerance, possible further increase in PTH levels, and the possibility of soft-tissue calcifications after long-term use. It is essentially not used any longer in the management of PHPT. Estrogens and Selective Estrogen-Receptor Modulators The earliest studies on the use of estrogen replacement therapy in PHPT date back to the early 1970s. A 0.5 to 1.0 mg/dL reduction in total serum calcium levels in postmenopausal women with PHPT who received estrogen was seen along with a lowering of urinary calcium ( 278 , 279 ). Most studies indicated no change in PTH ( 279 - 281 ). A randomized controlled trial of conjugated estrogen (0.625 mg daily plus medroxyprogesterone 5 mg daily) versus placebo indicated that hormone-replacement therapy effectively increases BMD at all skeletal sites in patients with PHPT,
