Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


controlled trial of conjugated estrogen (0.625 mg daily plus medroxyprogesterone 5 mg daily) versus placebo indicated that hormone-replacement therapy effectively increases BMD at all skeletal sites in patients with PHPT, with the greatest increases at the lumbar spine ( 281 ). This randomized controlled trials, however, did not confirm the calcium-lowering effect of earlier uncontrolled studies ( 274 ). In view of concerns expressed about chronic estrogen use in the Women’s Health Study, estrogen use is not often recommended for medical management of hyperparathyroidism. Raloxifene, a selective estrogen-receptor modulator, has been studied in PHPT, but the data are sparse. In a short-term (8-week) trial of 18 postmenopausal women, raloxifene (60 mg/day) was associated with a statistically significant although small (0.5 mg/dL) reduction in the serum calcium concentration and in markers of bone turnover ( 282 ). No long-term data or data on bone density are available. Bisphosphonates and Denosumab Bisphosphonates are conceptually attractive in PHPT because they are antiresorptive agents with an overall effect of reducing bone turnover. Although they do not affect PTH secretion directly, bisphosphonates could reduce serum and urinary calcium levels. Early studies with the first-generation bisphosphonates were disappointing. Etidronate has no effect ( 283 ). Clodronate use was associated in several studies with a reduction in serum and urinary calcium ( 284 ), but the effect was transient. Alendronate has been studied most extensively in PHPT. Studies by Rossini et al ( 285 ) and Hassani et al ( 286 ) were followed by those of Chow et al ( 287 ), Parker et al ( 288 ), and Kahn et al ( 289 ). These studies were all characterized by a randomized, controlled design. Typically, BMD of the lumbar spine and hip regions increases along with reductions in bone turnover markers ( Figure 4 ). Except for the study of Chow et al ( 287 ), serum calcium was unchanged. These results suggest that bisphosphonates may be useful in patients with low bone density in whom parathyroid surgery is not to be performed. One small study suggests that denosumab increases BMD in women with PHPT to a greater extent than patients without PHPT but with osteoporosis ( 290 ). Figure 4. The effect of alendronate on bone mineral density in primary hyperparathyroidism. With alendronate, bone mineral density increases significantly after 1 year, while the placebo group shows no change until it is crossed over to
