Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


on bone mineral density in primary hyperparathyroidism. With alendronate, bone mineral density increases significantly after 1 year, while the placebo group shows no change until it is crossed over to alendronate in year 2. (Modified from reference Khan AA, Bilezikian JP, Kung AWC, et al: Alendronate in primary hyperparathyroidism: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2004;89:3319-3325). Inhibition of Parathyroid Hormone The most specific pharmacologic approach to PHPT is to inhibit the synthesis and secretion of PTH from the parathyroid glands, such as those that act on the parathyroid cell calcium-sensing receptor. This G protein–coupled receptor recognizes calcium as its cognate ligand ( 291 - 293 ). When activated by increased extracellular calcium, the calcium-sensing receptor signals the cell via a G protein–transducing pathway to raise the intracellular calcium concentration, which inhibits PTH secretion. Molecules that mimic the effect of extracellular calcium by altering the affinity of calcium for the receptor could activate this receptor and inhibit parathyroid cell function. The phenylalkylamine (R)-N(3-methoxy-a-phenylethyl)-3-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-propylamine (R-568) is one such calcimimetic compound. R-568 was found to increase cytoplasmic calcium and to reduce PTH secretion in vitro, as well as in normal postmenopausal women ( 294 , 295 ). This drug was also shown to inhibit PTH secretion in postmenopausal women with PHPT ( 296 ). A second-generation ligand, cinacalcet, has been the subject of more extensive investigations in PHPT and is now approved for the treatment of severe hypercalcemia in PHPT when surgery cannot be pursued. Studies conducted by the authors and their colleagues ( 297 - 299 ) indicate that this drug can reduce the serum calcium concentration to normal in PHPT, but despite normalization of the serum calcium concentration, PTH levels do not return to normal; they do fall by 35% to 50% after administration of the drug. Urinary calcium excretion does not change; serum phosphorus levels increase but are maintained in the lower range of normal; and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels do not change. The average BMD does not change, even after 5 years of administration of cinacalcet ( 300 ). Marcocci et al ( 299 ) have shown that cinacalcet is effective in subjects with intractable PHPT. Silverberg et al ( 301 ) have shown that cinacalcet reduces calcium levels effectively in inoperable parathyroid carcinoma. Hydrochlorothiazide Though avoiding agents that exacerbate hypercalcemia is generally recommended in patients with PHPT, a recent study has recently reexamined the role of
