Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


calcium levels effectively in inoperable parathyroid carcinoma. Hydrochlorothiazide Though avoiding agents that exacerbate hypercalcemia is generally recommended in patients with PHPT, a recent study has recently reexamined the role of thiazides in patients with PHPT. This retrospective analysis of 72 patients suggested that thiazides might not increase serum levels of calcium in PHPT as they can do in normal individuals. Hydrochlorothiazide (12.5–50 mg daily for 3.1 years on average) was associated with a decrease in urinary calcium excretion but no change in serum levels of calcium ( 302 ). Smaller and cross-sectional studies have suggested similar results, although it is unclear if hydrochlorothiazide reduces the risk of nephrolithiasis ( 303 , 304 ). Given the heterogeneity of doses used, and the absence of larger, (preferably) randomized trial data, recommending thiazide use routinely in PHPT is premature. However, thiazides could be considered in those who refuse surgery or are poor surgical candidates but at high risk of nephrolithiasis in whom the benefit is thought to outweigh the risk as long as serum levels of calcium are monitored regularly. TREATMENT OF PARATHYROID CANCER Surgery is the only effective therapy currently available for parathyroid cancer. The greatest chance for cure occurs with the first operation. After the disease recurs, cure is unlikely, although the disease may smolder for many years thereafter. The tumor is not radiosensitive, although there are isolated reports of tumor regression with localized radiation therapy. Traditional chemotherapeutic agents have not been useful. When metastasis occurs, isolated removal is an option, especially if only one or two nodules are found in the lung. Such isolated metastasectomies are never curative but they can lead to prolonged remissions, sometimes lasting for several years. Similarly, local debulking of tumor tissue in the neck can be palliative, although malignant tissue is invariably left behind. Chemotherapy has had a very limited role in this disease. Bradwell and Harvey ( 305 ) have attempted an immunotherapeutic approach by injecting a patient who had severe hypercalcemia resulting from parathyroid cancer with antibodies raised to their own circulating PTH. Coincident with a rise in antibody titer to PTH, previously refractory hypercalcemia fell impressively. A more recent report ( 306 ) provided evidence of the antitumor effect in a single case of PTH immunization in metastatic parathyroid cancer. Attention has been focused instead on control of hypercalcemia. Intravenous bisphosphonates have been used to treat severe hypercalcemia. Although efficacious in the
