Primary Hyperparathyroidism
KEYWORDS: pubmed, hyperparathyroidism, phpt, primary, bone, primary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid, patients, calcium, pth, endocrinol, clin, clin endocrinol, metab, endocrinol metab


case of PTH immunization in metastatic parathyroid cancer. Attention has been focused instead on control of hypercalcemia. Intravenous bisphosphonates have been used to treat severe hypercalcemia. Although efficacious in the short term, they do not provide an approach that allows long-term outpatient normalization of serum calcium levels. Denosumab has more recently been reported to treat resistant hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma ( 307 , 308 ). The calcimimetic agents offer a newer approach. Our group ( 309 ) reported on a single patient treated with the calcimimetic, R-568; despite widely metastatic disease, the patient showed serum calcium levels that were maintained within a range that allowed him to return to normal functioning for nearly 2 years. A wider experience by Silverberg et al ( 301 ) showed that cinacalcet is useful in the management of parathyroid cancer. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved this calcimimetic for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid cancer. Use of this agent in parathyroid cancer led to improvement in serum calcium levels and a decrease in symptoms of nausea, vomiting, and mental lethargy, which are common concomitants of marked hypercalcemia. There are no data on the effect of cinacalcet on tumor growth in parathyroid cancer. Similarly, there are no data on the use of a combination of cinacalcet and bisphosphonates in parathyroid cancer, the former used to decrease PTH secretion from the cancer, and the latter used to decrease release of calcium from the skeleton. Cinacalcet offers an option for control of intractable hypercalcemia when surgical removal of cancerous tissue is no longer an option. SUMMARY This chapter has presented a comprehensive summary of the modern-day presentation of PHPT. Typically, an asymptomatic disorder in countries that are economically more developed, the disorder’s presentation has raised issues regarding the extent to which such patients may nevertheless show subclinical target organ involvement, who should be recommended for parathyroid surgery, who can be safely followed without surgical intervention, as well as questions regarding the role of medical therapy. Questions about the natural history and pathophysiology of the disorder continue to be of great interest. Inasmuch as this disorder continues to evolve, it is clear that additional careful studies are required continually to gain new insights into this disease. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported in part by National Institutes of Health grants NIDDK 32333, DK084986, RR 00645, and R21DK104105. With permission, this chapter is adapted
