HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, symptoms, patients, manuscript, ppi, author, author manuscript, reflux, therapy, manuscript author, esophageal, bpa, clinicians, monitoring, acid


HHS Public Access Author manuscript Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 13. Published in final edited form as: Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 May ; 20(5): 984–994.e1. doi:. AGA Clinical Practice Update on the Personalized Approach to the Evaluation and Management of GERD: Expert Review Rena Yadlapati*, C. Prakash Gyawali‡, John E. Pandolfino§ CGIT GERD Consensus Conference Participants California Illinois Abstract BACKGROUND & AIMS: As many as one-half of all patients with suspected gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) do not derive benefit from acid suppression. This review outlines a personalized diagnostic and therapeutic approach to GERD symptoms. METHODS: The Best Practice Advice statements presented here were developed from expert review of existing literature combined with extensive discussion and expert opinion to provide practical advice. Formal rating of the quality of evidence or strength of recommendations was not the intent of this clinical practice update. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 1: Clinicians should develop a care plan for investigation of symptoms suggestive of GERD, selection of therapy (with explanation of potential risks and benefits), and long-term management, including possible de-escalation, in a shared-decision making model with the patient. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 2: Clinicians should provide standardized educational material on GERD mechanisms, weight management, lifestyle and dietary behaviors, relaxation strategies, and awareness about the brain-gut axis relationship to patients with reflux symptoms. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 3: Clinicians should emphasize safety of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) for the treatment of GERD. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 4: Clinicians should provide patients presenting with troublesome heartburn, regurgitation, and/ or non-cardiac chest pain without alarm symptoms a 4- to 8-week Box 8124, St. Louis, MO 63110. ; tel: (314) 454-8201; fax: (314) 362-3643. CGIT GERD Consensus Conference Participants Kenneth Chang, Peter J. Kahrilas, Philip O. Katz, David Katzka, Sri Komanduri, John Lipham, Paul Menard-Katcher, V. Raman Muthusamy, Joel Richter, Virender K. Sharma, Michael F. Vaezi, and Sachin Wani. Supplementary Material Hepatology at www.cghjournal.org, and at Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript trial of single-dose PPI therapy. With inadequate response, dosing can be increased to twice a day or switched to a more effective acid suppressive agent once a day. When there is adequate response, PPI should be tapered to the lowest effective dose. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 5: If PPI therapy is continued in a patient with unproven GERD, clinicians should evaluate the appropriateness and dosing within 12 months after initiation, and offer endoscopy with prolonged
