HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, symptoms, patients, manuscript, ppi, author, author manuscript, reflux, therapy, manuscript author, esophageal, bpa, clinicians, monitoring, acid


to worsen GERD. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 13. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 14: Candidacy for invasive anti-reflux procedures includes confirmatory evidence of pathologic GERD, exclusion of achalasia, and assessment of esophageal peristaltic function. Keywords Ambulatory Reflux Monitoring; Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease; Proton Pump Inhibitors The prevalence of symptomatic gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD) is rising, with more than 30% of United States adults reporting at least weekly symptoms.1,2 Symptoms of GERD encompass heartburn or regurgitation (typical esophageal symptoms), non- cardiac chest pain (atypical esophageal symptom), and a myriad of extra-esophageal symptoms which include cough, dysphonia, sore throat, and globus.3 Further, symptoms can arise from coexisting or confounding pathophysiology such as mechanical defects, physiologic abnormalities, heightened nociception, and hypervigilance. Despite heterogeneous presentations and pathogeneses, patients with GERD have historically been managed in a similar catch-all fashion, often in the absence of objective abnormalities. Up inhibitor (PPI) therapy.4–6 Drivers of inadequate response include absence of pathologic GERD to begin with or symptom pathophysiology that is insufficiently targeted with acid suppression.7 In recognition of this problem, the current care paradigm has shifted towards a personalized approach to the evaluation and management of GERD symptoms.8 This Clinical Practice Update (CPU) provides best practice advice for a personalized diagnostic and therapeutic approach to GERD. Methods This expert review was commissioned jointly by the American Gastroenterological GI Innovation and Technology (CGIT), and the AGA Governing Board to provide timely guidance on a topic of high clinical importance to the AGA membership. The AGA CGIT Consensus Conferences bring together content experts, stakeholders (industry, regulatory, and payor), along with a patient advocate to discuss current needs and gaps in innovation relevant to the topic. This is an exhaustive, comprehensive didactic and discussion session created to provide a novel interactive environment to foster the AGA CGIT mission. The topic of this CPU was thoroughly discussed by expert faculty contributors selected by AGA CGIT, industry representatives and patient advocates at the conference organized and hosted by AGA CGIT. The content of this expert review was generated, discussed, and voted upon by the expert faculty contributors at a closed-door meeting during the AGA CGIT conference. All faculty contributors provided up-to-date declaration of conflicts of interest to ensure credibility of this document, and signed off on the final manuscript, which underwent internal peer review by the AGA Institute Clinical Practice Updates
