HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, symptoms, patients, manuscript, ppi, author, author manuscript, reflux, therapy, manuscript author, esophageal, bpa, clinicians, monitoring, acid


peristalsis and salivation, and downstream gastric motility.14 This discussion frames patient expectations in terms of response to acid suppression and potential need for adjunctive strategies. For instance, appreciating the role of the crural diaphragm may facilitate adherence to diaphragmatic breathing.15 Further, understanding the intra-abdominal to intra-thoracic pressure gradient may improve acceptance of weight management and modified dietary/nighttime routines.16–19 For patients with a known hiatal hernia and/or symptom burden following meals or during sleep, reduction of supine GERD by elevating the head of the bed and avoiding meals within 3 hours of bedtime are useful.20 An introductory discussion about the brain-gut axis can also empower and encourage the patient to integrate stress-reducing activities such as mindfulness into their daily lives, and can open the door for future psychological interventions.21 The supplemental document available with this update is a handout that can be provided to patients with suspected GERD (Supplemental Figure 1). Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 13. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript PPI Trial—Clinicians should provide patients presenting with troublesome heartburn, regurgitation, and/or non-cardiac chest pain without alarm symptoms a 4- to 8-week trial of single-dose PPI therapy (BPA 4). Any commercially available PPI can be used for the trial, the choice of which may be guided by payor coverage, out-of-pocket costs, and prior experiences with a particular PPI. Patients should be counseled to take the PPI 30 to 60 minutes prior to a meal. Education and literature emphasizing safety of PPIs for the treatment of GERD should be provided (BPA 3).22 Patient symptoms should be reassessed after a 4- to 8-week trial (Figure 1). With inadequate response, dosing can be increased to twice a day or switched to a more effective acid suppressive agent once a day (BPA 4). These can include PPIs that are more potent,23 less metabolized through the CYP2C19 pathway (eg, rabeprazole, esomeprazole), or available in an extended release formulation (eg, dexlansoprazole),24 as well as potassium competitive acid blockers when available. Routine re-evaluation of treatment should be performed, and the PPI should be tapered to the lowest effective dose when there is adequate response (BPA 4) (Figure 1). Best practices surrounding PPI de-prescribing are further elaborated in a separate AGA CPU. Personalized Diagnostic Approach to GERD Symptoms Indications for Objective Testing—Particular clinical scenarios warrant objective respond adequately to a PPI trial or if alarm symptoms exist, clinicians should investigate
