HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, symptoms, patients, manuscript, ppi, author, author manuscript, reflux, therapy, manuscript author, esophageal, bpa, clinicians, monitoring, acid


AGA CPU. Personalized Diagnostic Approach to GERD Symptoms Indications for Objective Testing—Particular clinical scenarios warrant objective respond adequately to a PPI trial or if alarm symptoms exist, clinicians should investigate with endoscopy and, in the absence of erosive reflux disease (Los Angeles B or greater) or long-segment (≥3 cm) Barrett’s esophagus, perform prolonged wireless pH monitoring off medication (96-hour preferred if available) to confirm and phenotype or to rule out GERD (BPA 6). In addition, clinicians should perform upfront objective reflux testing (rather than an empiric PPI trial) in patients with isolated extra-esophageal symptoms and suspicion of reflux etiology (BPA 8). Another indication for objective testing may include patients with unproven GERD that have a symptom response to empiric PPI therapy, in order to establish the appropriateness of long-term PPI therapy (Figure 1). Thus, if PPI therapy is continued in a patient with unproven GERD, clinicians should evaluate the appropriateness and dosing within 12 months after initiation, and offer endoscopy with prolonged wireless reflux monitoring off PPI therapy to establish appropriate use of long-term PPI therapy (BPA 5). In this context, endoscopy with prolonged reflux monitoring is optimally performed after withholding PPI for 2 to 4 weeks whenever possible.25 This is an important consideration in terms of shared decision-making as many patients want to understand why they may need chronic lifelong maintenance therapy. Upper Endoscopy—Complete endoscopic evaluation of GERD symptoms includes inspection for erosive esophagitis (graded according to the Los Angeles classification when present), diaphragmatic hiatus (Hill grade of flap valve), axial hiatus hernia length, and inspection for Barrett’s esophagus (with grading according to the Prague classification and biopsy when present) (BPA 7).26,27 Confirmatory evidence of erosive reflux on endoscopy is found in a minority of patients. These findings include esophagitis (Los Angeles B or greater) and/or the presence of long-segment (≥3 cm) Barrett’s esophagus, with Los Angeles Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 13. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript C or D esophagitis constituting severe erosive disease. However, up to 80% of symptomatic patients will not have objective reflux evidence on endoscopy.28 Of note, Los Angeles A esophagitis can be seen in healthy asymptomatic volunteers and is not considered evidence of erosive reflux disease (Figure 2). Ambulatory Reflux Monitoring—Ambulatory reflux monitoring is available in 2 configurations. Wireless pH monitoring (Bravo) uses a pH capsule introduced via a trans-oral catheter during sedated esophagogastroduodenoscopy
