HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, symptoms, patients, manuscript, ppi, author, author manuscript, reflux, therapy, manuscript author, esophageal, bpa, clinicians, monitoring, acid


GERD, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is an effective primary anti-reflux intervention in obese patients, and a salvage option in non-obese patients, while sleeve gastrectomy has potential to worsen GERD (BPA 13). Candidacy for invasive antireflux procedures includes confirmatory evidence of pathologic GERD, exclusion of achalasia, and assessment of esophageal peristaltic function (BPA 14). Conclusion For patients presenting with GERD symptoms, a stepwise diagnostic approach will identify mechanisms driving symptoms for a precision management approach. Patients should receive education on GERD pathophysiology and lifestyle modifications, and be involved in a shared decision-making model. A 4- to 8-week trial of single-dose PPI is considered safe and appropriate for patients with typical reflux symptoms and no alarm symptoms, with escalation to twice-a-day dosing or switching to a more potent acid suppressive agent if symptoms persist. Symptom response should prompt PPI titration to the lowest effective dose. When long-term PPI therapy is planned, objective reflux testing should be offered to establish a diagnosis of GERD and a long-term management plan. Objective testing with upper GI endoscopy is warranted in PPI non-response, presence of alarm signs/ symptoms, isolated extra-esophageal symptoms, or in patients who meet criteria to undergo screening for Barrett’s esophagus. In the absence of confirmed erosive disease or Barrett’s esophagus on endoscopy, prolonged wireless pH monitoring off PPI therapy is utilized to assess esophageal acid exposure. Patients without erosive disease on endoscopy and with physiologic acid exposure often have a functional esophageal disorder. In these patients, neuromodulation or behavioral interventions can be utilized, and PPI therapy can be titrated off as tolerated. Patients with non-severe GERD often respond well to optimization of lifestyle and pharmacotherapy, and may ultimately be able to wean pharmacotherapy down to the lowest effective dose (unless erosive reflux disease or Barrett’s esophagus exists). On the other hand, patients with severe GERD will generally require long-term anti-reflux management. A precision approach to escalation of management is suggested for patients with ongoing symptoms despite these measures, which should be driven by integrity of the anti-reflux barrier, presence of visceral hypersensitivity and hypervigilance, confirmation of PPI refractory-GERD, symptom profile, body mass index, and esophageal (as well as gastric) motor function. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2023 January 13. Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Best Practice Advice (BPA) Statements Approaching GERD Symptoms in Clinic BPA #1. Clinicians should develop a care plan for investigation of symptoms suggestive of
