HHS Public Access
KEYWORDS: gerd, symptoms, patients, manuscript, ppi, author, author manuscript, reflux, therapy, manuscript author, esophageal, bpa, clinicians, monitoring, acid


Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Author Manuscript Best Practice Advice (BPA) Statements Approaching GERD Symptoms in Clinic BPA #1. Clinicians should develop a care plan for investigation of symptoms suggestive of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), selection of therapy (with explanation of potential risks and benefits), and long-term management, including possible de-escalation, in a shared decision-making model with the patient. BPA #2. Clinicians should provide standardized educational material on GERD mechanisms, weight management, lifestyle and dietary behaviors, relaxation strategies, and awareness about the brain-gut axis relationship to patients with reflux symptoms. BPA #3. Clinicians should emphasize safety of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) for the treatment of GERD. BPA #4. Clinicians should provide patients presenting with troublesome heartburn, regurgitation, and/or non-cardiac chest pain without alarm symptoms a 4- to 8-week trial of single-dose PPI therapy. With inadequate response, dosing can be increased to twice a day or switched to a more effective acid suppressive agent once a day. When there is adequate response, PPI should be tapered to the lowest effective dose. Personalized Diagnostic Approach to GERD Symptoms BPA #5. If PPI therapy is continued in a patient with unproven GERD, clinicians should evaluate the appropriateness and dosing within 12 months after initiation, and offer endoscopy with prolonged wireless reflux monitoring off PPI therapy to establish appropriate use of long-term PPI therapy. trial or when alarm symptoms exist, clinicians should investigate with endoscopy and, in the absence of erosive reflux disease (Los Angeles B or greater) or long-segment (≥3cm) Barrett’s esophagus, perform prolonged wireless pH monitoring off medication (96-hour preferred if available) to confirm and phenotype or to rule out GERD. BPA #7. Complete endoscopic evaluation of GERD symptoms includes inspection for erosive esophagitis (graded according to the Los Angeles classification when present), diaphragmatic hiatus (Hill grade of flap valve), axial hiatus hernia length, and inspection for Barrett’s esophagus (with grading according to the Prague classification and biopsy when present). BPA #8. Clinicians should perform upfront objective reflux testing off medication (rather than an empiric PPI trial) in patients with isolated extra-esophageal symptoms and suspicion of reflux etiology. BPA #9. In symptomatic patients with proven GERD, clinicians should consider ambulatory 24-hour pH-impedance monitoring on PPI as an option to determine the mechanism of persisting esophageal symptoms despite therapy (if adequate expertise exists for interpretation). Precision Management Approach to GERD BPA# 10 Clinicians should personalize adjunctive pharmacotherapy to the GERD phenotype, in contrast to
