NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: injection, bta, speech, bta injection, egd, patients, pes, swallowing, author, author manuscript, manuscript, total, laryngectomy, total laryngectomy, procedure


accurate injection, or anxiety or inability to tolerate the procedure. Therefore, the purpose of this case series is to assess the efficacy of the BTA injection through the EGD in patients with PES. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript Method Eight sessions of BTA injections were performed through the EGD in 4 laryngectomized patients (3 males; 1 female) with TE puncture. All patients had decreased TE speech fluency due to PES ; 3 patients also had dysphagia due to evidence of shortened duration of PES relaxation during swallows on videofluoroscopic examination. Videofluoroscopic examination was performed by the speech pathologist prior to each injection to identify the location of the spasm . The location of the spastic segment was identified at the time of EGD by transillumination of the marked area on the skin surface of the neck identified as the area of spasticity by the speech pathologist at the time of videoflouroscopic recording. Additionally, during endoscopy, non strictured smooth narrowing/spasticity above the TE prosthesis was identified by resistance to air insufflation without resistance to the passage of the scope. A total of 100 IU of BTA (Onabotulinumtoxin A, Botox®, Allergan, Irvin, California) were injected into 4 quadrants of the PES segment through the EGD (Fig. 1). Our intention was to inject into the muscular layer followed by gentle “massage” with back and forth movement of an 18 mm CRE balloon dilator to facilitate uniform distribution of the BTA. None of the patients had evidence of anastomotic stricture on MBS or endoscopic view and during the procedure there was no resistance to the passage of the endoscope or to the back and forth movement of the CRE balloon dilator. All cases were performed using monitored anesthesia care (MAC). TE speech fluency was rated before and after injection by the speech pathologist. Fluent TE speech was defined by the ability to produce 10 to 15 syllables per breath and sustain vowel production (/a/) for a minimum of 10 seconds . Intraesophageal air insufflation was performed in all patients . Fluent TE speech and/or a decrease in peak intraesophageal pressures defined improved TE speech production after injection. Diet level was graded according to the Performance Status Scale of Head and Neck Surgery (PSS-HN) normalcy of diet subscale in all patients before and after injection . An increase in PSS-HN normalcy of diet scale and/or decreased gastrostomy dependence defined improved swallow
