NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: injection, bta, speech, bta injection, egd, patients, pes, swallowing, author, author manuscript, manuscript, total, laryngectomy, total laryngectomy, procedure


Neck Surgery (PSS-HN) normalcy of diet subscale in all patients before and after injection . An increase in PSS-HN normalcy of diet scale and/or decreased gastrostomy dependence defined improved swallow function after injection. Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval was not required for this small case series. Results Case 1 A 67-year-old Caucasian male with a history of total laryngectomy for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the larynx, presented with phonation difficulty and dysphagia requiring gastrostomy tube feedings. The pre-treatment modified barium swallow (MBS) study showed PES (Fig. 2). His speech improved with percutaneous lidocaine injection at the PES segment performed in a clinical setting. Subsequent percutaneous BTA injection failed to improve speech or swallowing dysfunction. The first BTA injection through the EGD yielded no response. The decision was made to perform a second procedure as the patient had responded to the lidocaine injection. After the second BTA injection using EGD, his speech improved immediately with relaxation of the PES (Fig. 3) and he remained symptom free for 10.5 months. His dysphagia improved gradually and he was weaned from gastric Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 June 06. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript tube feeding. He responded to a third procedure after the recurrence of symptoms, mainly swallowing deterioration, and subsequently he remained symptom free at 5 months follow up. Additional follow up was unavailable due to the patient’s diagnosis of recurrent disease. Case 2 A 71-year-old Caucasian male with a history of total laryngectomy and partial pharyngectomy using radial forearm flap reconstruction for SCC of the larynx, presented with phonation difficulty. Percutaneous BTA was not performed as the site of the PES identified on the MBS study was located too far distal increasing the risk for pneumothorax. BTA injection through the EGD at the PES segment was performed. Speech improved significantly and he remained symptom free for 11 months. A second procedure was performed successfully resulting in a durational effect of 12.5 months. A third procedure proved successful at 8 months follow up. Case 3 A 76-year-old Caucasian male with a history of SCC of the larynx treated with total laryngectomy presented with phonation difficulty and dysphagia. The MBS study was consistent with PES. He underwent percutaneous BTA injection without improvement of his symptoms. However, he responded to BTA injection through the EGD and remained symptom free at 13 months follow up after a
