NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: injection, bta, speech, bta injection, egd, patients, pes, swallowing, author, author manuscript, manuscript, total, laryngectomy, total laryngectomy, procedure


He underwent percutaneous BTA injection without improvement of his symptoms. However, he responded to BTA injection through the EGD and remained symptom free at 13 months follow up after a single injection. Case 4 A 73-year-old Caucasian female with a history of total laryngectomy for SCC of the larynx presented with phonation difficulty and dysphagia. She was unable to tolerate percutaneous BTA injection due to anxiety; therefore, she underwent BTA injection through the EGD. Both TE speech and swallowing improved and she remained symptom free at fifteen month follow up after a single injection. Discussion Traditionally, PES after total laryngectomy is managed by otolaryngologists or head and BTA injection may not always be successful. In some of these cases, the site of the PES segment cannot be accurately identified for injection. We postulate that BTA injection may be facilitated through EGD because of improved visualization and identification of the involved segment. We are not aware of any reports in which gastroenterologists have used EGD to relieve PES for improved TE speech and swallowing dysfunction in patients with laryngectomy. Evidence has shown that local BTA injection can successfully improve symptoms of PES that result in speech and swallowing problems after removal of the larynx. Lewin et al. treated 23 patients with 100 U of BTA injected transcutaneously under EMG guidance and reported voice improvement in 87% with an average durational effect of 20 months . Krause et al. described BTA injected through rigid pharyngoscopy under general anesthesia in 10 patients with an average durational effect of 20 weeks . In our case series, the Gastrointest Endosc. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2014 June 06. NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript NIH-PA Author Manuscript durational effect ranged from 10.5 to 15 months in our 4 patients. All patients had improved TE speech fluency. Three patients in our series also had dysphagia and they all had swallowing function improvement after the procedure. During the study period, one of the three patients, who had both swallowing and TE speech dysfunction, underwent a second BTA EGD injection in response to swallowing deterioration despite adequate TE speech fluency. We postulate that a swallowing decline occurred before changes in speech production were apparent because the narrow lumen facilitated vibratory contact but impeded food bolus passage. Thus, changes in swallowing function were perceived before changes in speech production. One patient who was at increased risk for pneumothorax with
