NIH Public Access
KEYWORDS: injection, bta, speech, bta injection, egd, patients, pes, swallowing, author, author manuscript, manuscript, total, laryngectomy, total laryngectomy, procedure


facilitated vibratory contact but impeded food bolus passage. Thus, changes in swallowing function were perceived before changes in speech production. One patient who was at increased risk for pneumothorax with percutaneous injection because of the distal location of the PES segment did well without any complication following BTA injection through EGD. It is possible that BTA injection techniques through rigid pharyngoscopy or EGD may minimize complications such as pneumothorax or vascular injuries in at-risk patients. One other advantage of BTA injection through EGD is that it does not require general anesthesia. In our experience, BTA injection through the EGD allows direct visualization and accurate site of injection under MAC thereby avoiding the additional cost and recovery time associated with general anesthesia. Interestingly, our first case did not have improvement of symptoms after EGD BTA injection; however, he responded to a second procedure –this is not an unusual situation as it has been reported in the percutaneous BTA injection literature. The 18 mm CRE balloon dilator was used with the intention to facilitate the uniform distribution of the BTA by massage. There was no mechanical dilation effect. No resistance was noted to the back and forth movement of the CRE balloon dilator and there was no mucosal tear at the end of the procedure. In addition, dilation of the PES segment is proven to be an ineffective treatment for this condition . Conclusion BTA injection through the EGD improves TE voice production and dysphagia in laryngectomized patients with PES. This procedure is a viable therapeutic option for patients who fail to respond to percutaneous BTA injection, or for whom percutaneous injection is contraindicated or not tolerated. Our experience demonstrates that BTA injection through the EGD is a safe and relatively simple procedure that does not require fluoroscopy, electromyography, or general anesthesia. We believe the use of EGD for BTA injection performed by gastroenterologists offers a new alternative to help improve the quality of life of select laryngectomized patients with poor speech and swallowing function.
