Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


syndromes 1 Recommendations 1.1 This recommendation no longer stands. 1.2 This recommendation has been updated and replaced by recommendation 1.1.5 in the NICE guideline on acute coronary syndromes. 1.3 This recommendation has been updated and replaced by recommendation 1.1.5 in the NICE guideline on acute coronary syndromes. 1.4 This recommendation has been updated and replaced by recommendations 1.2.7 and 1.2.8 in the NICE guideline on acute coronary syndromes. 1.5 This recommendation no longer stands. 1.6 This recommendation no longer stands. 1.7 It is recommended that a glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitor is considered as an adjunct to percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for all patients with diabetes undergoing elective PCI, and for those patients undergoing complex procedures (for example, multi-vessel PCI, insertion of multiple stents, vein graft PCI or PCI for bifurcation lesions); currently only abciximab is licensed as an adjunct to PCI. In procedurally uncomplicated, elective PCI, where the risk of adverse sequelae is low, use of a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor is not recommended unless unexpected immediate complications occur. 1.8 GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors are not currently licensed in the UK for use as an adjunct to thrombolytic therapy in ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). 2 Clinical need and practice 2.1 Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the most common cause of death in the UK. It is a progressive disease. The first presenting symptom is often stable angina (pain in the chest on exertion), which may progress to an acute coronary syndrome (ACS). ACSs encompass a range of symptoms with broadly similar underlying causes. They include ischaemic cardiac chest pain of recent origin in the categories: • non-ST-segment-elevation ACS, including unstable angina and non-ST- segment-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) • myocardial infarction (MI) with ST-segment-elevation (an acute myocardial infarction [MI], also known as STEMI). 2.2 Unstable angina covers a range of clinical states falling between stable angina and acute MI, including angina at rest lasting more than 20 minutes, increasing angina and angina occurring more than 24 hours after an acute MI. 2.3 NSTEMI (also known as non-Q-wave MI) is the term used when the cardiac markers (troponins and creatine kinase [CK]) are elevated to ranges that indicate that MI has occurred, but a Q-wave does not develop on electrocardiogram (ECG) tracings. This profile is thought to indicate damage to the heart muscle that does not extend through the full thickness of the myocardium. NSTEMI therefore represents a subgroup of patients with non-ST-elevation ACS
