Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


ECG); evidence of impairment of left ventricular function (either pre-existing or during MI); and elevated C-reactive protein. In addition, those with raised levels of cardiac troponin are considered to be at high risk of an event. 2.8 Despite the use of standard therapy (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants), the rate of adverse outcomes (such as death, non-fatal re-infarction, refractory angina or readmission for unstable angina) at 6 months after presenting with unstable angina is about 30%. 2.9 In guidance issued in September 2000, NICE recommended the intravenous use of glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors, in addition to aspirin and low (adjusted) dose unfractionated heparin, for patients with unstable angina at high risk of death or further MI. NICE's guidance recommended intravenous administration of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors to patients undergoing acute or elective PCI. 3 The technology 3.1 Abciximab (ReoPro) 3.1.1 Abciximab is a monoclonal antibody that targets the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptor on the surface of platelets. 3.1.2 Abciximab is indicated as an adjunct to aspirin and heparin for the prevention of ischaemic complications in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). It is also indicated for the short-term (1 month) reduction of risk of myocardial infarction (MI) in patients who have unstable angina that is not responding to full conventional therapy and who are to undergo PCI. Abciximab is administered intravenously at an initial bolus dose of 250 microgram/kg body weight followed by a maintenance dose of 0.125 microgram/kg/min (maximum 10 microgram/min) over 12 to 36 hours. 3.1.3 As with the other GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors, the side effects of abciximab (including bleeding and thrombocytopenia) are related to its pharmacological effects. For full details of side effects and contraindications, see the summary of product characteristics. 3.1.4 The cost of abciximab is £280 (net) for a 10-mg vial (BNF 43rd edition). For a 70-kg person, the cost per course ranges from £840 to £1,120, depending on the duration of treatment (costs rounded to full vials). 3.2 Eptifibatide (Integrilin) 3.2.1 Eptifibatide is a synthetic cyclic heptapeptide and is 1 of the small-molecule GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors. It reversibly inhibits platelet aggregation by preventing the binding of fibrinogen and other adhesive ligands to the GP IIb/IIIa receptor. 3.2.2 Eptifibatide is indicated for the prevention of early MI in patients presenting with unstable angina or non-Q-wave MI (NSTEMI) who have had chest pain within the last 24 hours and who have electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or elevated cardiac enzymes.
