Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


The assessment group found 1 new study (GUSTO IV), in addition to 4 studies from the previous appraisal that are relevant to this review. All were classified as randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that included patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI, but the definitions of the participants varied between trials. Two studies looked at eptifibatide, 2 at tirofiban and 1 at abciximab; all these studies compared treatment with placebo or no treatment. On the whole, the studies were well conducted. Outcome measures included death, myocardial infarction (MI), need for revascularisation and adverse events associated with use of the trial drugs. Differences between trials precluded pooling results in the assessment report. 4.1.1.2 In nearly all studies involving the small-molecule glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors (eptifibatide and tirofiban), the rates of death and MI were reduced in the treatment groups compared with the comparator group; however, the difference was not always statistically significant. In all of the trials, the risk of bleeding was greater in the groups receiving a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor than in the comparator group, but the difference was not always statistically significant. 4.1.1.3 In the GUSTO-IV trial of abciximab, the results demonstrated neither benefit nor trends of benefit in the primary outcomes of death and MI at 30 days. 4.1.1.4 The assessment group concluded that the effects of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors were small compared with those of other interventions in acute coronary syndrome (ACS), for example aspirin. Subgroup analyses showed that GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors may be particularly effective in troponin-positive patients. A recently published meta-analysis seen by the committee (the Boersma study) analysed the data for various subgroups and suggested that, in those not routinely scheduled for early percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), the rate of cardiac complications is reduced following the administration of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors. 4.1.1.5 The submissions for this appraisal from consultees (manufacturers or sponsors, professional, and patient or carer groups) contained no clinical evidence on the use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors for the medical management of ACS that had not already been included in the assessment report. 4.1.1.6 The clinical experts were asked about the evidence for medical management in those not going on to have a PCI during GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor administration, which is frequently the scenario in current UK practice. They stated that current evidence-based good practice is to investigate, by means of coronary angiography, with a view to early revascularisation, all of those patients presenting
