Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


in current UK practice. They stated that current evidence-based good practice is to investigate, by means of coronary angiography, with a view to early revascularisation, all of those patients presenting with ACS deemed to be at high enough risk to merit a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor. 4.1.1.7 They were also asked to comment on the importance of various risk factors used to identify high-risk ACS patients. They considered that an elevated troponin result often confirms the high-risk status of an individual, but that increased troponin should not be thought of as the only indicator of high risk and that other clinical factors have to be taken into account. 4.1.2 GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors as an adjunct to PCI 4.1.2.1 The assessment group found 5 new trials (PRICE, ADMIRAL, TACTICS-TIMI, TARGET and ESPRIT), in addition to 12 studies from the previous appraisal that are relevant to this review. Fourteen trials compared treatment with placebo or no treatment, 10 of which involved abciximab, 3 involved eptifibatide and 1 involved tirofiban. There were 2 head-to-head trials, 1 of abciximab and eptifibatide and 1 of abciximab and tirofiban. One further trial compared invasive and conservative treatment, with all participants receiving tirofiban. The definition of participants both within and between trials was broad, from patients undergoing elective PCI to those who had acute PCI after MI. All trials were classified as RCTs, and many of them were large (with at least 1,000 participants). Outcomes measured included death, non-fatal MI, the need for PCI or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) after the current procedure, and adverse events. 4.1.2.2 Again, the results of the trials were not pooled for the assessment report because of heterogeneity, which included differences between studies in the inclusion criteria for patients undergoing the procedure. Only 1 trial showed the use of a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor to be associated with a significant reduction in the mortality rate at 30 days; another trial showed significant reduction in the mortality rate at 6 months. The use of a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor was associated with a reduction in the rate of revascularisation at 30 days and at 6 months in studies in which this was measured, but the difference was statistically significant in 1 trial only. 4.1.2.3 However, with composite outcomes (usually a combination of death, subsequent MI and revascularisation), the great majority of trials showed a statistically significant benefit of treatment with a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor. There
