Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


with composite outcomes (usually a combination of death, subsequent MI and revascularisation), the great majority of trials showed a statistically significant benefit of treatment with a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor. There were more minor and major bleeds in the treatment groups in all studies, but the increased rates were not always statistically significant. There was little evidence of benefit for subgroups. 4.1.2.4 The only new data submitted on the use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors during PCI were longer-term data from 2 trials (ESPRIT and EPIC), some re-analysis of the existing data, and data from a recent UK audit presented by the British Cardiac Society and Royal College of Physicians (London). 4.1.2.5 The clinical experts were asked to comment on the use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors as an adjunct during elective PCI. Their view was that elective single-vessel PCI in a low-risk patient carries a very small absolute risk of complications. Consequently, the use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in such low-risk patients was generally considered unlikely to confer any clinically significant additional benefit; GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors should only be used in these circumstances if unexpected complications occur. Conversely, the use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors as an adjunct to PCI was considered beneficial in patients with evidence of recent ACS, in patients with diabetes and in patients undergoing potentially complex PCI, which might include multivessel disease, the use of multiple stents, PCI of a vein graft or PCI of bifurcation lesions. 4.2 Cost effectiveness 4.2.1 GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors for the medical management of ACSs 4.2.1.1 The assessment group found no additional cost-effectiveness studies beyond the 7 included in the previous appraisal of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors. None of these studies were UK-based. Since management of ACS in the UK differs from that in other developed countries, particularly in regard to the rate of PCI, the results were not considered to be applicable to the UK. Economic models for tirofiban and eptifibatide were submitted by the manufacturers for the original appraisal. 4.2.1.2 The eptifibatide manufacturer's model was based on a prospective economic evaluation conducted as part of the PURSUIT trial. Based on the subgroup of patients from Western Europe (12% of the total patients), the cost per life-year gained for eptifibatide was estimated as £8,179 to £11,079. Although lifetime survival duration was modelled, no extrapolation of costs over the patients' lifetime was attempted and it is not clear how this would impact on the results.
