Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


to £11,079. Although lifetime survival duration was modelled, no extrapolation of costs over the patients' lifetime was attempted and it is not clear how this would impact on the results. 4.2.1.3 The tirofiban manufacturer's model reported that 22% of the cost of tirofiban is offset by savings due to the reduction in events. The lack of a standardised outcome measure makes it difficult to interpret these results in relation to other treatments. The absolute reduction in event rates associated with tirofiban was not adjusted for UK-specific, baseline-event rates. 4.2.2 Use as an adjunct to PCI 4.2.2.1 A further 6 economic studies in the literature were identified in addition to the 17 studies included in the original appraisal, but none of these fully reflects current UK practice and the long-term costs and consequences. The original appraisal also considered the manufacturer's submission for abciximab. 4.2.2.2 In the manufacturer's model for abciximab, for patients undergoing urgent and elective PCIs in a UK setting, estimates of cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) ranged from £6,941 to £9,053 based on the EPILOG trial and from £3,949 to £5,151 based on the EPISTENT trial. These estimates must be interpreted with caution for the following reasons: the baseline risk of events is different in the UK from that in the trials; the assumption that patients surviving the first year will live for a further 15 years ignores variability of prognosis; and it may not be valid to assume that costs do not differ between treatment options over a period of 2 to 15 years. 4.2.3 Assessment group model 4.2.3.1 The assessment group developed a UK-specific model to look at the optimal use and timing of use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in ACS patients. The model estimated health outcomes in terms of QALYs and had a lifetime time horizon. Four treatment strategies for GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors were compared: • a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor used as part of initial management, with treatment begun immediately in all ACS patients at the time they were identified • a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor started only after making a decision to carry out PCI • a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor used as an adjunct to PCI, started up to 1 hour before the procedure • no use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors. An additional analysis looked at initial management in high-risk ACS patients only (defined as those with at least 1 of 3 factors: age over
