Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


no use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors. An additional analysis looked at initial management in high-risk ACS patients only (defined as those with at least 1 of 3 factors: age over 70 years, diabetes, ST-depression). Initially, baseline event rates were calculated based on PRAIS-UK and Leeds audit data. Since PCI rates here may be lower than in current practice, an alternative analysis using the Boersma meta- analysis was performed. The model applied relative risks from all available trials and from the Boersma data. All analyses showed that use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in initial management was the preferred strategy. Depending on the assumptions used, estimates of cost per QALY ranged from £4,605 to £11,671. However, the most cost-effective option was initial medical management in the subgroup of high-risk patients only, with cost per QALY estimated at £3,966. The additional benefit of use in all patients compared to use in high-risk patients alone was gained at a cost per QALY of £91,000. When using GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors as an adjunct to PCI was compared with not using them, the base-case cost per QALY was £25,811; this was reduced to £11,160 if baseline event rates based on Boersma data were applied. 4.2.3.2 In summary, the assessment report model, which is the closest representation of current UK practice available, indicates that the most cost-effective strategy is for GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors to be used as part of the initial medical management of high-risk ACS patients, irrespective of whether angiography with a view to PCI is performed. Although early angiography with a view to PCI is considered to be of benefit in the initial management of high-risk ACS patients, this was not assessed in the model and is not within the scope of the present guidance. The model suggests that the cost effectiveness of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors is not dependent on whether a PCI is performed; therefore, their administration does not need to be delayed until a decision is made to carry out PCI. The use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors as an adjunct during PCI only is also less cost effective than their use in initial medical management. 4.3 Consideration of the evidence 4.3.1 The committee considered the evidence available and the viewpoints expressed by the experts on the current management of ACS patients in the UK. It was emphasised that this appraisal related solely to the use of the GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the management
