Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


experts on the current management of ACS patients in the UK. It was emphasised that this appraisal related solely to the use of the GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the management of ACS, and that it did not extend to the role of PCI or the management of ACS in general. 4.3.2 Historically, PCI rates have been lower in the UK than in the countries where the majority of the published trials of the GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in ACS have been carried out. The committee took this into account when considering the validity of these trials in relation to current UK practice, together with evidence from the experts suggesting that PCI rates in the UK are now rising by approximately 20% per annum. 4.3.3 The committee considered that the assessment group model provided the best estimates of cost effectiveness for the UK and, on the balance of clinical and cost effectiveness, the committee concluded that use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors for initial medical management in high-risk patients was the preferred treatment strategy. 4.3.4 The current licensed indications for the GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors are for use with aspirin and unfractionated heparin. However, the committee recognised that low- molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) is used widely in the management of ACS in place of unfractionated heparin, and was aware of the ongoing trials using GP IIb/ IIIa inhibitors in conjunction with LMWH. 4.3.5 If GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors are to be used as part of medical management in high-risk patients, the committee thought that it was important that treatment should be initiated as soon as possible. This proves problematic if raised troponin alone is used to identify high-risk status, as the earliest that raised troponin levels can be accurately detected is 6 to 12 hours after the onset of chest pain. The committee considered that, in the presence of sufficient high-risk factors, GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor treatment should be initiated without delaying to confirm high-risk status with a positive cardiac troponin test. 4.3.6 The committee considered that those ACS patients undergoing PCI should be treated with a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor. In situations where this is not covered by initial medical management, the committee thought that the administration of a GP IIb/ IIIa inhibitor would still be appropriate. No clinical trial evidence is available on a strategy that involves a second administration of a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor (that is, after initial medical management) for a delayed PCI. 4.3.7
