Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


No clinical trial evidence is available on a strategy that involves a second administration of a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor (that is, after initial medical management) for a delayed PCI. 4.3.7 At the same time, the committee considered that, for clinically stable patients without diabetes who are undergoing procedurally uncomplicated, routine, elective single-vessel PCI, GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors may not be necessary and therefore should not be recommended for routine use unless unexpected immediate complications occur. The low risk of adverse events during such PCI procedures is demonstrated by UK audit data submitted by the British Cardiac Society and Royal College of Physicians (London). 5 Recommendations for further research 5.1 All of the trials currently available looked at the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors in conjunction with heparin, in line with their licensed indications. There is an ongoing trial (A-Z trial) looking at the use of tirofiban in conjunction with low- molecular-weight heparin (LMWH); INTERACT, another ongoing trial, is looking at a combination of eptifibatide with a LMWH (enoxaparin). As LMWH is widely used instead of standard heparin, the results of these trials are awaited with interest. 5.2 The effects of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in current UK practice should be investigated in carefully designed research to assess their benefits in non-ST-segment- elevation acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in patients who are not scheduled for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). 5.3 Research should be carried out to investigate the efficacy of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors in subgroups such as women. A recently published meta-analysis of patient-level data has suggested that GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors may have no benefit in the medical management of ACS in women. 5.4 The results of the CURE trial may lead to a consideration of the use of clopidogrel for the management of patients with ACS. Research to establish the relative roles of the GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors and clopidogrel in the short-term management of patients with ACS will be necessary. 5.5 Research is needed to establish the statistical relationship between clinical risk factors and troponin levels, so as to assess the value added by the troponin result in the determination of risk level. 6 Implications for the NHS 6.1 Replacement of the September 2000 guidance with this revised guidance is not anticipated to increase costs to the NHS. Fewer patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) will receive glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors, which may result in some cost savings. Under the previous guidance it
