Guidance on the use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in the treatment of acute coronary
KEYWORDS: iib iiia, iib, iiia, patients, pci, inhibitors, iiia inhibitors, management, acs, use, treatment, risk, coronary, angina, iiia inhibitor


costs to the NHS. Fewer patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) will receive glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors, which may result in some cost savings. Under the previous guidance it was assumed that a positive troponin test would be used to identify high risk and that therefore approximately one-third of people admitted with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) would receive a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor. The prevalence of the risk factors described in 1.4 among people admitted with ACS is unknown, but assuming a similar proportion will be identified as being at high risk as would have been identified using the troponin result, the impact of this section of the guidance remains unchanged. 6.2 The British Cardiovascular Intervention Society audit recorded 30,916 PCIs in NHS centres during 2000. However, since there are only limited data as to the case-mix of patients undergoing these procedures estimation of budget impact cannot be made. 7 Implementation and audit 7.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires integrated care boards, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this evaluation within 3 months of its date of publication. 7.2 The Welsh ministers have issued directions to the NHS in Wales on implementing NICE technology appraisal guidance. When a NICE technology appraisal guidance recommends the use of a drug or treatment, or other technology, the NHS in Wales must usually provide funding and resources for it within 2 months of the first publication of the 7.3 When NICE recommends a treatment 'as an option', the NHS must make sure it is available within the period set out in the paragraphs above. This means that, if a patient has acute coronary syndromes and the healthcare professional responsible for their care thinks that glycoprotein (GP) IIb or IIIa inhibitors is the right treatment, they should be available for use, in line with NICE's recommendations. 7.4 All clinicians who treat people with an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) should review their current policies and practice in line with the guidance set out in section 1. 7.5 Local guidelines or care pathways, particularly those on the management of patients with unstable angina or myocardial infarction (MI), should incorporate the guidance in section 1. 7.6 To measure compliance locally with the guidance, the following
