Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


a statin to have icosapent ethyl. People who cannot have statins are not covered by icosapent ethyl's marketing authorisation, so NICE cannot make any recommendations in this area. 2 Information about icosapent ethyl Marketing authorisation indication 2.1 Icosapent ethyl (Vazkepa, Amarin Corporation) is indicated 'to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in adult statin-treated patients at high cardiovascular risk with elevated triglycerides (≥150 mg/dL [1.7mmol/l]) and: • established cardiovascular disease, or • diabetes, and at least on other cardiovascular risk factor'. Dosage in the marketing authorisation 2.2 The dosage schedule is available in the summary of product characteristics for icosapent ethyl. Price 2.3 Icosapent ethyl costs £144.21 per pack of 120 capsules (excluding VAT; company submission). Costs may vary in different settings because of negotiated procurement discounts. 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committee considered evidence submitted by Amarin, a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG), and responses from stakeholders. See the committee papers for full details of the evidence. Treatment pathway and comparator People with elevated triglycerides who are having statins with or without ezetimibe would welcome a treatment option 3.1 NHS England estimated that between 25% and 35% of people having statin therapy have elevated triglycerides. The patient and clinical experts explained there is an unmet need for this population. This is because there are no pharmaceutical treatments for people at risk of cardiovascular events who have elevated triglycerides despite having statins with or without ezetimibe. They explained the aim of treatment would be to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. The patient expert commented that lifestyle changes, including diet and exercise, can help to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. The patient expert noted the importance of having treatment options because current ways of reducing cardiovascular risk may not work for everyone. The committee concluded that people with elevated triglycerides who are having statins with or without ezetimibe would welcome a treatment option. Statins with or without ezetimibe is an appropriate comparator 3.2 The marketing authorisation for icosapent ethyl says it should be used in addition to statin therapy. The company submission, which was based on the REDUCE-IT trial (see section 3.6), also noted people could have ezetimibe in addition to statins. The clinical experts said that fibrates are not used to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in people with moderately elevated triglycerides. They explained that fibrates are used by people with very
