Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


experts said that fibrates are not used to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in people with moderately elevated triglycerides. They explained that fibrates are used by people with very high triglycerides to prevent pancreatitis, which is a different indication. The clinical experts confirmed that there are no treatments to reduce cardiovascular risk for people with elevated triglycerides who have statins with or without ezetimibe. Therefore, the committee agreed statins with or without ezetimibe was the appropriate comparator. Icosapent ethyl is likely to be used mostly in a primary care setting 3.3 The company noted it expected icosapent ethyl to be used in a primary care setting. The clinical experts commented that icosapent ethyl might be used in secondary care but it would likely be used more in primary care. The committee concluded icosapent ethyl would likely be used mostly in a primary care setting. Population The population in the company's submission is narrower than the marketing authorisation in terms of LDL-C levels and is acceptable 3.4 Icosapent ethyl's marketing authorisation does not specify age or low- density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) thresholds (see section 2.1). However, the company only provided evidence for icosapent ethyl from the REDUCE-IT trial. This included people aged 45 and older who had cardiovascular disease, and people aged 50 and older who had diabetes and at least 1 other cardiovascular risk factor (see section 3.5). The trial also only included people with LDL-C levels above 1.04 mmol/litre and below or equal to 2.60 mmol/litre. A clinical expert noted that there are people younger than 45 who have cardiovascular disease and elevated fasting triglycerides in the NHS. They explained that many of these people have South Asian family backgrounds. The ERG commented that the treatment effect for icosapent ethyl varies by age, with a larger benefit observed in people under 65 (hazard ratio [HR] 0.65, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.56 to 0.75) than in people aged 65 or older (HR 0.87, 95% CI 0.76 to 1.00). The company highlighted that these analyses did not include adjusting for potential confounders or multiple comparisons. The committee was aware that restricting by age may result in an equalities issue because age is a protected characteristic. The committee concluded that the company's submission for icosapent ethyl was narrower than the marketing authorisation and it was acceptable to use the LDL-C thresholds from REDUCE-IT. This would ensure its recommendation was based on
