Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


company's submission for icosapent ethyl was narrower than the marketing authorisation and it was acceptable to use the LDL-C thresholds from REDUCE-IT. This would ensure its recommendation was based on the available evidence. It is appropriate to consider the effects of icosapent ethyl only for the secondary prevention subgroup 3.5 In its original submission, the company provided evidence for 2 separate risk groups from the REDUCE-IT trial: primary and secondary prevention. The primary prevention group included people aged 50 and older with type 1 or 2 diabetes and at least 1 additional cardiovascular risk factor. People in the secondary prevention group were aged 45 and older with established cardiovascular disease. The committee noted that NICE's technology appraisal guidance on alirocumab (TA393), evolocumab (TA394) and inclisiran (TA733) defined high risk of cardiovascular disease as a history of any of the following: • a previous cardiovascular event, including acute coronary syndrome (such as myocardial infarction or unstable angina needing hospitalisation) • previous coronary or other arterial revascularisation procedures • coronary heart disease • ischaemic stroke • peripheral arterial disease. In response to the first consultation, the company provided analyses that focused only on the secondary prevention subgroup. The committee noted that icosapent ethyl was unlikely to be cost effective in the primary prevention subgroup, because the cost-effectiveness estimates presented at the first committee meeting were substantially higher than the range normally considered an acceptable use of NHS resources. It concluded that it was appropriate to focus on the effects of icosapent ethyl for the secondary prevention subgroup. This includes people with diabetes who have established cardiovascular disease. Clinical evidence The REDUCE-IT trial may not be generalisable to the NHS in England 3.6 The company provided clinical evidence from REDUCE-IT, a randomised trial comparing icosapent ethyl with a mineral oil placebo. The trial included people who had statins with or without ezetimibe, fasting triglyceride levels of 1.53 mmol/litre or more and below 5.64 mmol/litre, and LDL-C levels of more than 1.04 mmol/litre to 2.60 mmol/litre. In the trial, 8,179 people were randomised and 29% were in the primary prevention group and 71% were in the secondary prevention group (see section 3.5). The primary endpoint was time from randomisation to the first occurrence of any component of the major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) composite outcome. This comprised cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, coronary revascularisation and unstable angina. The ERG noted that REDUCE-IT
