Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


any component of the major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) composite outcome. This comprised cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, coronary revascularisation and unstable angina. The ERG noted that REDUCE-IT did not include any people from the UK, which increases uncertainty around the generalisability of the results to the NHS in England. A clinical expert commented that the trial did not represent the ethnic diversity in England, because some family backgrounds were underrepresented. They noted that people with South Asian family backgrounds may benefit more from icosapent ethyl. The company compared the baseline characteristics of the secondary prevention subgroup with a similar population from Steen et al. 2016. This was a retrospective study of 183,565 people with or without atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease from The Health Improvement Network database in the UK. The company noted that BMI and systolic blood pressure were similar between REDUCE-IT and Steen et al. However, the ERG noted that there were substantial differences between REDUCE-IT and Steen et al. that might modify the treatment effect. The mean age was higher in Steen et al. and the percentage of male patients was lower. There were also differences in comorbidities. In response to consultation, the company highlighted that the populations in England and REDUCE-IT had similar distributions by ethnic group. The company also stated that in REDUCE-IT, there was no interaction between the efficacy of icosapent ethyl in reducing the risk of cardiovascular events according to ethnicity ('white' HR 0.77, 95% CI 0.69 to 0.85, 'non-white' HR 0.60, 95% CI 0.43 to 0.83). It stated that an advisory board of 9 UK clinical experts considered the trial data would be generalisable to the UK population. The clinical adviser to NHS England noted that several treatments available in the NHS, such as SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP-1 agonists, were used by only a small proportion of people in REDUCE-IT. The clinical adviser explained that the change in treatment landscape in the NHS in England since the trial began makes the generalisability of REDUCE-IT to current practice uncertain. The company stated that the use of SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP-1 agonists in the trial was consistent with clinical practice at the time of the trial. It also noted that people who do not have diabetes would not necessarily be able to have these treatments. The committee concluded that REDUCE-IT may not fully represent NHS clinical practice, which increases uncertainty around the generalisability
