Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


not have diabetes would not necessarily be able to have these treatments. The committee concluded that REDUCE-IT may not fully represent NHS clinical practice, which increases uncertainty around the generalisability of the results. There is uncertainty in the trial results because icosapent ethyl's mechanism of action is not fully understood 3.7 The company stated that icosapent ethyl's mechanism of action is not fully understood. The company noted it appears to modulate the atherosclerosis pathway by lipid and non-lipid effects. It explained the primary lipid effect is to reduce triglyceride levels. It added that the non- lipid effects may include localised anti-inflammatory effects, regulation of lipid metabolism gene transcription, antithrombotic effects and plaque reduction. The clinical experts also commented that the mechanism of action is uncertain. They explained that the reduction in cardiovascular risk observed in REDUCE-IT was larger than what would be expected from a reduction in triglycerides alone. It was also larger than that reported by an earlier trial (STRENGTH) of a drug with a similar mechanism of action to icosapent ethyl (see section 3.8). In response to consultation, the company stated that the mechanism of action is likely multifactorial and that icosapent ethyl can positively alter the development, progression and stabilisation of atherosclerotic plaque. It stated that triglyceride reduction only played a minor role in the reduction in the risk of cardiovascular events associated with icosapent ethyl. The company also noted that other related technologies that have been appraised by NICE, such as SGLT2 inhibitors, have uncertain mechanisms of action. The committee concluded that the mechanism of action for icosapent ethyl is not fully understood. This added uncertainty to the trial's results because the difference in benefit compared with STRENGTH had not been fully explained. The treatment effect of icosapent ethyl is uncertain because of the potential negative effect of mineral oil placebo in REDUCE-IT 3.8 The placebo group in REDUCE-IT had 4 g of light mineral oil per day. Icosapent ethyl significantly reduced the first occurrence of the MACE outcome in the secondary prevention subgroup compared with placebo (HR 0.73, 95% CI 0.65 to 0.81). A professional group and the NHS England clinical adviser expressed concerns about the REDUCE-IT results, in part because of the use of mineral oil. They commented that mineral oil may not be a true neutral oil and may have increased the risk of cardiovascular events in the placebo group. This would exaggerate
