Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


mineral oil. They commented that mineral oil may not be a true neutral oil and may have increased the risk of cardiovascular events in the placebo group. This would exaggerate the observed difference in cardiovascular events between the icosapent ethyl and placebo groups. The professional group and NHS England clinical adviser also commented that results of a similar trial, STRENGTH, did not show the same magnitude of benefit as REDUCE-IT. STRENGTH compared a combination of eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid (which is similar to, but not the same as, icosapent ethyl) with a corn oil placebo. The ERG explained that a 2021 paper by Doi et al. comparing REDUCE-IT with STRENGTH suggested the differences in results might be partially explained by differences in placebo comparators. But the ERG cautioned that there were other possible explanations, including that corn oil could decrease the risk of MACE or that there were underlying differences in patient characteristics between the trials. The ERG highlighted a systematic review by Olshansky et al. 2020 that concluded that it is likely that mineral oil at the quantities used as placebos does not significantly affect the conclusion of REDUCE-IT. However, the ERG noted that this systematic review had some limitations and one of the co-authors was employed by the company. In response to consultation, the company acknowledged that some parameters associated with cardiovascular risk increased in the placebo group of REDUCE-IT. However, it stated that it was uncertain if these changes were because of the natural history of the disease, regression to the mean, or negative effects of mineral oil. The company provided a comparison of cardiovascular outcomes trials from 2003 to 2019. The comparison found that 79% of studies reported increases in LDL-C after statin stabilisation, similar to what was observed in the placebo group of REDUCE-IT. In response to consultation the company also highlighted that the drug in STRENGTH was different to icosapent ethyl because of different proportions of docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid. So, comparing the results from the 2 trials was not appropriate. The experts explained that among cardiovascular disease researchers and clinicians, there is an ongoing debate about mineral oil placebos and the impact on trial outcomes. The committee concluded that the relative effect of icosapent ethyl was uncertain because of the potential negative effect of the mineral oil placebo. It is appropriate to consider scenarios for an estimated possible reduction in treatment
