Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


effect of icosapent ethyl was uncertain because of the potential negative effect of the mineral oil placebo. It is appropriate to consider scenarios for an estimated possible reduction in treatment effect from 1.5% to 3% 3.9 At the first meeting, the NHS England clinical adviser explained they expected to see analyses with the magnitude of treatment effect reduced by 7% to account for the estimated negative effect of mineral oil. This estimate was based on the 2021 paper by Doi et al. comparing the results of REDUCE-IT and STRENGTH. The committee was aware that the company provided the analyses done by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the US to the European Medicines Agency based on the 3-point MACE outcome assuming that the potential negative effect of mineral oil on MACE events was between 0.3% and 3%. The committee also noted that the Doi et al. 2021 paper commented that there was an unexplained additional 13% benefit in REDUCE-IT. In response to the first consultation, the company provided scenarios with the clinical effectiveness of icosapent ethyl reduced by 0.3%, 1%, 2% or 3% based on the analyses provided to the European Medicines Agency. The company considered that the range of 7% to 13% was not plausible because it was based on a single simulated Danish observational study. A clinical expert commented that it was difficult to quantify the potential negative effects of mineral oil and there was significant uncertainty. As such, they could not state which percentage reduction in treatment effect was more plausible. The committee was aware that the European public assessment report on icosapent ethyl notes that a 10% putative negative effect of mineral oil would be a worst-case scenario but likely an overestimation. In response to the second consultation, the company presented an analysis replicating a Cox regression model made by the FDA to examine the effects of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and LDL-C on the relative benefit of icosapent ethyl. It presented a propensity score matched approach to the Cox regression analysis to account for overlapping effects of the biomarkers. It also presented an analysis exploring the relationship between on-treatment serum active drug concentration and cardiovascular outcomes to explore the effects on cardiovascular risk that are independent of serum eicosapentaenoic acid levels. The company considers the results of these analyses to be confidential so they cannot be reported here. On the basis of these analyses, the
