Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


independent of serum eicosapentaenoic acid levels. The company considers the results of these analyses to be confidential so they cannot be reported here. On the basis of these analyses, the company updated its base-case model to include a 1.5% reduced treatment effect for icosapent ethyl. Considering the company's analyses and the conclusion of the European Medicines Agency, the committee concluded that it would be appropriate to consider scenarios estimating a possible reduction in treatment effect from 1.5% to 3%. Icosapent ethyl has manageable adverse events 3.10 In REDUCE-IT, similar proportions of people having icosapent ethyl (81.8%) and placebo (81.3%) reported adverse events. The clinical experts noted that icosapent ethyl appears to be generally well tolerated, but they had some concerns around specific adverse events. In REDUCE-IT, there were significant differences in the incidence of atrial fibrillation (5.3% icosapent ethyl, 3.9% placebo), bleeding-related events (11.8% icosapent ethyl, 9.9% placebo), constipation (5.4% icosapent ethyl, 3.6% placebo) and peripheral oedema (6.5% icosapent ethyl, 5.0% placebo). The committee noted that some fish oil products can be associated with unpleasant burps that may affect adherence (icosapent ethyl is derived from fish oil). The company stated that unpleasant burps had very little impact on treatment adherence. The committee noted the concerns about some adverse events, but concluded icosapent ethyl was generally well tolerated with manageable adverse events. The economic model The results from the company's model are uncertain 3.11 The company's model included 8 health states: cardiovascular event- free, first event, post-first event, second event, post-second event, third or more event, post-third or more event, and death. The events in the model were based on the composite 5-point MACE outcome from REDUCE-IT (see section 3.6). The health states were populated by fitting parametric models to the Kaplan–Meier curves for first, second and third plus cardiovascular events from REDUCE-IT using a partitioned survival approach. The model used a 1-day cycle length and a lifetime horizon, equivalent to 36 years. The company used baseline utility values from the literature (Stevanovic et al. 2016 and O'Reilly et al. 2011) and health state multipliers from NICE's guideline on cardiovascular disease: risk assessment and reduction, including lipid modification. The ERG noted several concerns with the model structure and that the company's partitioned survival approach to estimate the probability of having a cardiovascular event deviated from the modelling approach in related NICE appraisals. In recent hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia appraisals, the economic
