Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


partitioned survival approach to estimate the probability of having a cardiovascular event deviated from the modelling approach in related NICE appraisals. In recent hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia appraisals, the economic models have often followed a Markov approach and used specific cardiovascular event types as health states. The ERG was concerned that the model structure assumed independence of endpoints, meaning the probability of having a second or third cardiovascular event was independent of the time of the previous events. It commented that the company's model did not explicitly model nonfatal cardiovascular events and used a 1-day cycle length. The committee commented that it was unusual that the company's entire model was based on REDUCE-IT, rather than applying the relative treatment effect observed in the trial to a baseline risk estimated using routine datasets. In response to consultation, the company explained that its model was designed to align with REDUCE-IT, in which people progressed through health states in a specific order. It also commented that time from randomisation to a first, second or third plus event was used so there were no issues with crossover of events during the trial period. Beyond the trial period, the company noted that any extrapolation curves that crossed were considered clinically implausible and disregarded. The ERG considered that these comments were insufficient justification for the model structure and uncertainty remains. The company provided a comparison of the model-estimated survival and mortality from REDUCE-IT. The committee noted that the model appeared to overestimate mortality in both the placebo and icosapent ethyl groups at 5 years. The committee concluded that the results of the company's model were uncertain because of the model structure and the discrepancy between model and trial outcomes. Using the composite 5-point MACE outcome in the model increases uncertainty 3.12 The company's model used the same composite MACE outcome as REDUCE-IT (see section 3.6). The ERG was concerned that the composite outcome could mask the treatment effect in relation to individual cardiovascular events. The ERG highlighted that in the intention to treat population, the hazard ratios for cardiovascular death (HR 0.80, 95% CI 0.66 to 0.98) and death from any cause (HR 0.87, 95% CI 0.74 to 1.02) were larger than that for the composite 5-point MACE (HR 0.75, 95% CI 0.68 to 0.83). The company noted that although the composite outcome was used, the distribution of specific cardiovascular events was applied in the model.
