Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


5-point MACE (HR 0.75, 95% CI 0.68 to 0.83). The company noted that although the composite outcome was used, the distribution of specific cardiovascular events was applied in the model. The company explained that the effect of icosapent ethyl on each specific event occurring as a first, second or third plus event was taken into account. However, the ERG commented that applying direct estimates of time to each event is not necessarily equivalent to combining time to composite event with the proportion of each event in the composite outcome. The clinical experts commented that using a composite MACE outcome is common for large clinical trials but one expert said that there was some debate about whether all components of the MACE should be used. The committee was concerned that the composite outcome might be double counting risk. It noted that revascularisations accounted for most second and third events (the exact values are considered confidential by the company and cannot be reported here). It also noted that coronary revascularisation could be an indicated procedure based on a preceding event, such as myocardial infarction. At its first meeting, the committee requested Kaplan–Meier curves and hazard ratios for each of the individual cardiovascular events. In response to consultation the company provided Kaplan–Meier curves and hazard ratios over time for each individual event type in the composite outcome. The ERG commented that in the Kaplan–Meier curves for cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction and nonfatal stroke, there appeared to be a lag in the separation of icosapent ethyl and placebo curves at around 1 to 2 years. This might mean the composite outcome biases the treatment effect in favour of icosapent ethyl in the first 1 to 2 years of treatment. The ERG also commented that when considering the hazard ratios over time, there are some differences between the individual events and the composite. The committee welcomed the additional information from the company but concluded that using the composite outcome in the model increased uncertainty. It is implausible that there is no loss of treatment effect at treatment discontinuation 3.13 The company's base case assumed that the treatment effect for icosapent ethyl continued at the same level for the duration of the model with no loss of treatment effect at discontinuation. The company commented that similar technology appraisals did not include loss of treatment effect, including TA393, TA394 and TA733. The company provided an analysis
