Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


loss of treatment effect at discontinuation. The company commented that similar technology appraisals did not include loss of treatment effect, including TA393, TA394 and TA733. The company provided an analysis of the treatment effect over time, which showed that it did not decrease during the follow-up period of REDUCE-IT. The clinical expert commented that given the absence of longer-term data it is difficult to determine the appropriateness of an assumption of treatment effect loss. However, the expert noted that related treatments for cardiovascular disease, such as statins, have long-term effects. The expert commented that the company's assumption of no loss of treatment effect was likely reasonable. However, the committee was concerned that treatment discontinuation was not linked to treatment effect in the icosapent ethyl model. At its first meeting, the committee noted that it would have preferred a method linking treatment effect and discontinuation by changing the hazard ratio to 1 at an appropriate time after people stopped icosapent ethyl. In response to consultation, the company commented that the clinical efficacy curves accounted for efficacy lost because of discontinuation because they are based on the intention to treat population, which includes all patients in the icosapent ethyl trial, regardless of treatment discontinuation. The committee acknowledged this, but considered that if the proportion of patients continuing treatment reduced over the model time horizon, it would expect the average treatment effect to be lower than that captured in the trial. The committee noted that in the recent related appraisal of bempedoic acid with ezetimibe (TA694), the company's model assumed results achieved at 12 weeks were maintained for the duration of the model's time horizon, or until treatment was stopped. It recognised that in TA393, the company had assumed 100% treatment continuation and compliance over the entire time horizon. The committee noted that this assumption likely would not be appropriate in this appraisal because many people had discontinued treatment by the end of follow-up in REDUCE-IT (the value is considered confidential by the company and cannot be reported here). The company highlighted that follow-up was longer in REDUCE-IT and so it would be expected that more people would discontinue treatment. The committee noted that assumptions of complete continuation and no loss of treatment effect were also used in TA733. The committee commented that the icosapent ethyl appraisal had different considerations to those previous appraisals. It considered that there was large uncertainty around the
