Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


effect were also used in TA733. The committee commented that the icosapent ethyl appraisal had different considerations to those previous appraisals. It considered that there was large uncertainty around the assumption that the treatment effect observed over the REDUCE-IT trial period would continue for the entire modelled time horizon if more people discontinued treatment over time. The committee concluded that it was implausible that the treatment effect would not reduce at any point after discontinuation. It is plausible that the treatment effect may be lost after 10 years if treatment is discontinued 3.14 The company's base case did not apply a loss of treatment effect. However, the company did provide 2 scenarios assuming that once a person discontinued treatment, after a period of either 10 or 20 years, they would have equivalent clinical outcomes to people in the placebo group. The company explained that because of the model structure, when assuming that people who discontinue treatment follow the efficacy of the placebo group, it was assuming that all events that were avoided occur at discontinuation, which was not clinically plausible. The committee agreed that the way in which the loss of treatment effect had been modelled was potentially biased against icosapent ethyl. This was mainly because it was implausible that all avoided events would occur at treatment discontinuation, but also because the efficacy curves for people staying on treatment included some people who had stopped treatment in the trial. The ERG's base-case included the company's scenario where people stopping icosapent ethyl would have the same clinical efficacy as the placebo group after 10 years. For people continuing treatment, the assumption was that the treatment effect would remain constant over the model time horizon. The committee acknowledged the limitations with the modelled scenarios but considered it reasonable to accept the scenario in which people stopping icosapent ethyl would lose treatment effect after 10 years and those continuing would maintain the treatment effect. However, it acknowledged that the true cost-effectiveness results would likely be lower than in the scenarios presented, had the loss of treatment effect been modelled more appropriately. The company's model has uncertainties so the comparison with the validation model is also uncertain 3.15 Because of the ERG's concerns with the company's model, the company provided a microsimulation model for validation. The validation model was originally developed for the US setting but was adapted to the UK NHS setting by
