Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


the company's model, the company provided a microsimulation model for validation. The validation model was originally developed for the US setting but was adapted to the UK NHS setting by using the same costs, utilities and background mortality as the company's model. The validation model also used cardiovascular event data from REDUCE-IT. The company provided a comparison of its model with the validation model. The validation model explicitly modelled individual nonfatal cardiovascular events, had a cycle length of 6 months and assumed people experienced a disutility associated with an acute event for 18 months after an event, after which they experienced a post- event utility. The company also provided a 30-year comparison of the expected number of first, second and third events, people discontinuing icosapent ethyl, and people alive in the company's and validation models. It noted the models had different structures but produced similar clinical estimates. The committee noted there were still uncertainties about the company's model structure (see section 3.11) and how treatment effect after discontinuation was modelled (see section 3.13). The ERG also noted that it was unclear to what extent the validation model should be used to inform decisions in the company's model. The committee concluded that the company's model remained uncertain and therefore the comparison with the validation model was uncertain. Cost-effectiveness estimates Because of the uncertainty an acceptable ICER is towards the lower end of the range normally considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources 3.16 NICE's guide to the methods of technology appraisal notes that above a most plausible incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £20,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, judgements about the acceptability of a technology as an effective use of NHS resources will take into account the degree of certainty around the ICER. The committee will be more cautious about recommending a technology if it is less certain about the ICERs presented. Because of the high level of uncertainty in the clinical and economic evidence, the committee agreed that an acceptable ICER would be towards the lower end of the range normally considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources (£20,000 to £30,000 per QALY gained). The most plausible ICER is between £21,750 and £24,821 per QALY gained 3.17 After the second consultation, the company's base-case ICER for icosapent ethyl compared with a stable dose of statins with or without ezetimibe was £20,000 per QALY gained for the secondary prevention group.
