Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


second consultation, the company's base-case ICER for icosapent ethyl compared with a stable dose of statins with or without ezetimibe was £20,000 per QALY gained for the secondary prevention group. The company's base case assumed no loss of treatment effect for icosapent ethyl but did include a 1.5% treatment effect reduction to account for the possible effects of the mineral oil placebo. The ERG's base case included a loss of treatment effect for those discontinuing after 10 years but did not include a reduction in treatment effect for the mineral oil placebo. The ERG's base-case ICER was £21,062 per QALY gained. The ERG presented scenario analyses including a 0%, 1.5%, 3% or 7% treatment effect reduction to adjust for the possible effect of mineral oil. It also presented scenario analyses including a loss of treatment effect on discontinuation after 5 or 10 years, or not at all. The committee considered that the scenarios including a reduction of treatment effect of 1.5% and 3% (see section 3.9) and a loss of treatment effect on discontinuation at 10 years (see section 3.14) were the most plausible scenarios. However, it considered that the ICERs that included a loss of treatment effect on discontinuation were likely too high, because of the way this had been modelled. So, the committee also considered a scenario with a 3% reduction in treatment effect and no loss of treatment effect on discontinuation. Therefore, the committee considered that the most plausible ICER was between £21,750 and £24,821 per QALY gained. Other factors The committee considered potential equality issues in its decision making 3.18 A patient organisation and clinical expert raised several potential equalities issues. They noted that people with Black, Asian and minority ethnic family backgrounds are more likely to have elevated triglycerides. The patient organisation also commented that people living in England's most deprived areas are almost 4 times more likely to die prematurely from cardiovascular disease than those in the least deprived. It also explained that compared with the general population, people with severe mental illness are more likely to develop and die from preventable conditions, including cardiovascular disease. It also noted that people with learning disabilities are at increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease. The clinical expert noted that some religions have restrictions on fish products. The committee considered these to be important issues. The committee concluded that its recommendation for icosapent ethyl would apply to
