Icosapent ethyl with statin therapy for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people
KEYWORDS: icosapent, ethyl, icosapent ethyl, company, treatment, cardiovascular, people, effect, committee, model, treatment effect, reduce-it, noted, events, clinical


expert noted that some religions have restrictions on fish products. The committee considered these to be important issues. The committee concluded that its recommendation for icosapent ethyl would apply to all patients and that the recommendation would not affect people protected by the equality legislation any differently. End of life criteria do not apply 3.19 NICE's advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy did not apply. The committee has not seen evidence of additional benefits that are not captured in the cost-effectiveness analysis 3.20 The clinical experts noted that icosapent ethyl may be considered innovative because it appears to work on a disease pathway that is not fully understood. The committee concluded that it had not seen evidence of additional benefits associated with icosapent ethyl over those already included in the QALY calculations. Conclusion Icosapent ethyl is recommended for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people with elevated triglycerides 3.21 The committee noted uncertainty in the clinical effectiveness evidence for icosapent ethyl because of the mineral oil placebo in the REDUCE-IT trial (see section 3.8). It also noted concerns about the generalisability of the trial results to the NHS in England (see section 3.6). It was concerned about the company's modelling approach (see section 3.11), including how the treatment effect after discontinuation was modelled (see section 3.13) and the composite outcome (see section 3.12). Nevertheless, the most plausible ICER was towards the lower end of the range of what NICE normally considers a cost-effective use of NHS resources. Therefore, the committee recommended icosapent ethyl for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in people with raised fasting triglycerides (1.7 mmol/litre or more) who are having statins and have established cardiovascular disease. Established cardiovascular disease is defined in line with the definition of high-risk cardiovascular disease in NICE's technology appraisal guidance on alirocumab, evolocumab and inclisiran (see section 3.5). Icosapent ethyl is recommended for people with LDL-C levels above 1.04 mmol/litre and below or equal to 2.60 mmol/litre, in line with the clinical evidence from REDUCE-IT (see section 3.4). 4 Implementation 4.1 Section 7 of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) and the Health and Social Care Information Centre (Functions) Regulations 2013 requires clinical commissioning groups, NHS England and, with respect to their public health functions, local authorities to comply with the recommendations in this appraisal within 3 months of its date
