Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


mass, fever of unknown origin, signs of inferior vena cava (IVC) compression, and signs of left-sided portal hypertension. Rarely, complications such as hemorrhage or tumor rupture may also occur. In biochemical studies, the first step is the measurement of steroid hormones which are initially guided by the clinical presentation. According to the ESMO-EURACAN (European Society for Medical Oncology—the European Reference Network for Rare Adult Solid Cancers) Clinical Practice Guidelines from 2020 in cases of suspected ACC, an extensive steroid hormone work-up is recommended assessing gluco-,mineralo-, sex- and precursor-steroids ( 5 - 7 ). For all adrenal masses, diagnosis of pheochromocytoma should be considered based on clinical presentation and imaging measuring plasma-free or urinary-fractionated metanephrines to avoid intraoperative complications. The European Society of Endocrinology (ESE) and European Network Society of Adrenal Tumors (ENSAT) guidelines on adrenal incidentalomas suggest the measurement of sex steroids and precursors of steroidogenesis using multi-steroid profiling by tandem mass spectrometry in patients in whom based on imaging or clinical features an adrenocortical carcinoma is suspected ( 8 ). Urine steroid metabolomics for non-invasive and radiation-free detection of a malignant ‘steroid fingerprint’ in adrenocortical carcinoma patients has been prospectively validated ( 9 ). Table 2. Signs and Symptoms of ACC and Recommended Testing for Confirmation of Hypersecretory Syndromes View in own window Symptoms/Signs Hormonal testing (ENSAT 2005, ESMO- EURACAN - Clinical Practice Guidelines 2020) Hypercortisolism Centripetal fat distribution. Skin thinning – striae. Muscle wasting – myopathy. Osteoporosis. Increased blood pressure (BP), Diabetes Mellitus, Psychiatric disturbance, Gonadal dysfunction Overnight dexamethasone suppression test (1mg) 24-hour free cortisol (urine) Basal ACTH (plasma) Basal cortisol (serum) [for diagnosis minimum 3 out of 4 tests) Androgen hypersecretion Hirsutism Menstrual irregularity – infertility Virilization (baldness, deepening of the voice, clitoris hypertrophy) DHEA-S Androstenedione Testosterone 17-hyrdoxy-progesterone (17OHPG) Mineralocorticoid hypersecretion Increased BP Hypokalemia Potassium (serum) Aldosterone to renin ratio Estrogen hypersecretion Gynecomastia (men) Menorrhagia (post-menopausal women) 17β-estradiol Non-hypersecretory syndrome PATHOPHYSIOLOGY Although studies of hereditary neoplasia syndromes have revealed various chromosomal abnormalities related to ACC development, the precise genetic alterations involved are still unknown. Most common mutations implicated in sporadic ACC are insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), catenin (CTNNB1 or ZNRF3), and TP53 mutations ( 1 , 3 , 10 ). The Wnt/β- catenin constitutive activation and insulin growth factor 2 (IGF2 overexpression) are the most important implicated genetic pathways. Germline TP53 mutations and dysregulation of the Gap 2/mitosis transition and the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor
