Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


insulin growth factor 2 (IGF2 overexpression) are the most important implicated genetic pathways. Germline TP53 mutations and dysregulation of the Gap 2/mitosis transition and the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R) signaling have also been described. Steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1) plays an important role in adrenal development and is frequently overexpressed in ACC. Recently, ACC global --omics profiling studies revealed frequent detected genetic and epigenetic alterations, including loss of heterozygosity at 17p13, alterations at the 11p15 locus, and mutations in TP53, CTNNB1, ZNRF34, CDKN2A, RB1, MEN1, PRKAR1A, RPL22, TERF2, CCNE1, and NF1 genes. Decreased expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and/or PMS2 consistent with high microsatellite instability/mismatch repair protein deficiency (MSI-H/MMR-D) status has also been reported ( 3 , 10 ). DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS A palpable mass causing abdominal pain in the presence of IVC syndrome is highly suggestive of an ACC. This is substantiated further by the presence of symptoms/signs of combined hormonal secretion (cortisol and androgens), virilizing or rarely feminizing symptoms/signs confirmed with the use of specific endocrine testing ( Table 2 ). As the majority of ACCs are relatively large (size > 8cm, weight >100g) at diagnosis, specific imaging features are used to distinguish them from other adrenal lesions ( 1 , 2 , 3 ). If adrenal imaging indicates an indeterminate mass other parameters should be considered including tumor size > 4 cm, combined cortisol/androgen hormone excess, rapidly developing symptoms and/ rapid tumor growth and/or young age (e.g., < 40 years) at presentation, that all might point to an ACC ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 ). Other adrenal lesions that need to be considered in the differential diagnosis are myelolipomas, adrenal hemorrhage, lymphoma, adrenal cysts, metastases, and mainly adrenal adenomas, the majority of which have distinctive imaging features. There is no role for biopsy in a patient who is considered suitable for surgery of the adrenal mass ( 4 , 5 , 6 ). Computerized Tomography (CT) imaging of the adrenals is the major tool showing a unilateral nonhomogeneous mass, > 5cm in diameter, with irregular margins, necrosis, and occasionally calcifications. Due to the low-fat content X-Ray density is high (>20 Hounsfield Units, HU); in a series of 51 ACC none had a density of less than 13 Hounsfield Units (HU) ( 5 - 7 ). However, a recent study including almost 100 ACCs showed that increasing the unenhanced CT tumor
