Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


mortality was consistent. As Ki-67 is related to prognosis in both localized and advanced ACC, threshold levels of 10% and 20% have been considered for discriminating low from high Ki-67 labelling index; however, it is not clear whether any single significant threshold can be determined. Patients with stage I-III disease treated with surgical resection had significantly better median OS (63 vs. 8 months; p= 0.001). In stage IV disease, better median OS occurred in patients treated with surgery (19 vs. 6 months; p=0.001), and post-surgical radiation (29 vs. 10 months; p=0.001) or chemotherapy (22 vs. 13 months; p=0.004) ( 5 - 7 , 15 , 16 ). OS varied with increasing age, higher comorbidity index, grade, and stage of ACC at presentation. There was improved survival with surgical resection of the primary tumor, irrespective of disease stage; post-surgical chemotherapy or radiation was of benefit only in stage IV disease ( 6 , 15 ). The 5 year-survival of adult patients from multiple datasets with ACC after surgery ranges from 40% to 70%. The estimated five-year OS for patients with ACC in recent cohorts is slightly less than 50% ( 6 , 15 ). Preliminary data also shows that molecular markers (gene expression, methylation, and chromosome alterations) for localized ACC could predict cancer recurrence ( 17 , 18 ). Nevertheless, many of these markers need further validation and some are difficult to be widely applied in clinical settings. The development of genomics has led to a new classification of ACC by two independent international cohorts; one from ENSAT network in Europe ( 17 ) and the other from the Cancer Genome Atlas consortium in America, Europe and Australia ( 18 ), with two distinct molecular subgroups, C1A and C1B being associated with poor (5-year survival rate of 20%) and good overall prognosis (5-year survival rate of 91%), respectively. The C1B group is characterized by a low mutation rate, and a very low incidence of mutations of the main driver genes of ACC whereas the C1A group is characterized by high mutation rate and driver gene alterations. This group is further divided into a subgroup of aggressive tumors showing hypermethylation at the level of the CpG islands located in the promoter of genes (“CIMP phenotype”). The prognostic value of paraffin-embedded tumors’ transcriptome analysis was also confirmed as an independent prognostic factor in a multivariable model including tumor stage and Ki-67. Oncocytic adrenocortical
