Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


genes (“CIMP phenotype”). The prognostic value of paraffin-embedded tumors’ transcriptome analysis was also confirmed as an independent prognostic factor in a multivariable model including tumor stage and Ki-67. Oncocytic adrenocortical tumors did not form any specific cluster as oncocytic carcinomas and oncocytic tumors of uncertain malignant potential were all in ‘C1B’ ( 19 ). THERAPY The management of patients with ACC requires a multidisciplinary approach with initial complete surgical resection in limited volume disease (stages I, II and occasionally III). Mitotane (1,1-dichloro-2(ochlorophenyl)- 2-(p-chlorophenyl) ethane [o,p’DDD]) is the only currently available adrenolytic medication achieving an overall response of approximately 30%. Surgery Surgery aims to achieve a complete margin negative (R0) resection as patients with an R0 resection have a 5-year survival rate of 40-50% compared to the < 1year survival of those with incomplete resection ( 6 , 16 ). Patients with stage III tumors and positive lymph nodes can have a 10-year OS rate of up to 40% after complete resection. When a preoperative diagnosis or high level of suspicion of ACC exists, open surgical oncological resection is recommended as locoregional lymph removal might improve diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic outcome. However, the wide range of reported lymph node involvement in ACC (ranging from 4 to 73%) implies that regional lymphadenectomy is neither formally performed by all surgeons nor accurately assessed or reported by all pathologists ( 6 , 16 ). Laparoscopic adrenalectomy should be considered for tumors with size up to 6 cm without any evidence of local invasion and open adrenalectomy for unilateral adrenal masses with radiological findings suspicious of malignancy and signs of local invasion ( 8 ). There is no strong evidence that one of the minimally invasive or open adrenalectomy is superior concerning the time to recurrence and/or survival of patients with ACC, provided that rupture of tumor capsule is excluded. Routine locoregional lymphadenectomy should be performed with adrenalectomy for highly suspected or proven ACC and it should include (as a minimum) the peri-adrenal and renal hilum nodes. Preservation of the tumor capsule is essential whereas involvement of the IVC or renal vein with tumor thrombus is not a contraindication for surgery. However, even following a complete surgical resection, 50-80% of patients develop locoregional or metastatic recurrence. Although such patients may be candidates for aggressive surgical resection, routine debulking is not recommended except for the control of hormonal hypersecretion ( 5 , 6 , 16 ).
