Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


recurrence. Although such patients may be candidates for aggressive surgical resection, routine debulking is not recommended except for the control of hormonal hypersecretion ( 5 , 6 , 16 ). Ablative therapies particularly targeting hepatic disease are used to decrease tumor load and hypersecretory syndromes. Individualized treatment decisions are made in cases of tumors with extension into large vessels based on a multidisciplinary surgical team. Such tumors should not be regarded as ‘unrespectable’ until reviewed in an expert center. Mitotane Mitotane has traditionally been used for ACCs to obtain a partial or complete response in 33% of cases mainly by metabolic transformation within the tumor and through oxidative damage. Besides its cytotoxic adrenal action mitotane also inhibits steroidogenesis. Adjuvant mitotane treatment is proposed in those patients without macroscopic residual tumor after surgery but who have a perceived high risk of recurrence (stage III, KI-67%>10%). However, patients at low/moderate risk of recurrence (stage I-II, R0 resection, and Ki-67 ≤ 10%) do not benefit significantly from adjuvant mitotane (ADIUVO trial) ( 20 ). An ongoing study, ADIUVO-2, is investigating the effectiveness of mitotane alone compared to mitotane combined with chemotherapy in high-risk ACC patients. When indicated mitotane should be initiated within six weeks and not later than 3 months post-surgery ( 6 , 16 ). Adjuvant mitotane should be administrated for at least 2 years, but no longer than 5 years. However, the optimal duration of adjuvant mitotane treatment remains unsolved and mainly depends on personal preferences and expertise. According to a recent study, the present findings do not support the concept that extending adjuvant mitotane treatment over two years is beneficial for patients with ACC at low risk of recurrence ( 21 ). The tolerability of mitotane may be limited by its side effects mainly nausea, vomiting, neurological (ataxia, lethargy), hepatic and rarely hematological toxicity ( 6 , 21 ). Measurement of serum mitotane levels, targeting a range of 14-20 mg/l, seems to correlate with a therapeutic response while minimizing toxicity using variable dosing regimens ( 5 - 7 ). Levels above 20 mg/L are linked to a higher risk of central neurological toxicity, though mild symptoms can also occur at lower concentrations. Interestingly, some evidence suggests that steroid secretion inhibition may still occur at lower mitotane levels than 14mg/l, indicating potential therapeutic benefits even outside the standard therapeutic window ( 22 ). Additionally, the Ki-67 index, a widely recognized marker
