Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


may still occur at lower mitotane levels than 14mg/l, indicating potential therapeutic benefits even outside the standard therapeutic window ( 22 ). Additionally, the Ki-67 index, a widely recognized marker of tumor aggressiveness in ACC, is often used to predict disease’s progression and the potential effectiveness of mitotane therapy. While elevated Ki-67 levels are typically associated with poorer prognosis, they may also suggest a greater likelihood of response to mitotane when therapeutic concentrations are achieved ( 23 ). Mitotane causes hyperlipidemia and increased hepatic production of hormone-binding globulins (cortisol, sex hormone, thyroid and vitamin D) increasing total hormone concentration while impairing free hormone bioavailability. The induction of hepatic P450- enzymes by mitotane induces the metabolism of steroid compounds requiring high-dose glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid replacement. Hormonal excess causes significant morbidity in ACC patients. Although mitotane reduces steroidogenesis it has a slow onset of action necessitating the use of other medications targeting adrenal steroidogenesis (ketoconazole, metyrapone, aminoglutethimide, and etomidate). As adrenal insufficiency may occur close supervision is required to titrate adrenal hormonal replacement therapy. Mitotane remains the primary treatment for ACC, but resistance, both primary and acquired, limits its efficacy. Primary resistance arises from genetic and epigenetic alterations (e.g., TP53, CTNNB1 mutations, gene hypermethylation), the overexpression of drug efflux pumps (e.g., ABCB1), and disruptions in steroidogenic pathways. Acquired resistance develops during treatment, involving pathways like Wnt/β-catenin, PI3K/AKT/mTOR, and genes such as BCL-2 and TP53. Understanding these mechanisms is essential for developing targeted therapies and improving outcomes ( 24 ). Cytotoxic Chemotherapy In metastatic ACC or when progression on mitotane, systematic therapy is recommended. Although cisplatin-containing regimens have shown some responses, most studies lack enough power and comparisons between different regimens are only a few. The most encouraging results originate from the combinations of etoposide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin with mitotane (EDP-M) achieving an overall response of 49% of 18 months duration (FIRMA-CT study) ( 25 ). This regimen was equally effective as first-line treatment or after failing of the combination of streptozotocin with mitotane and is currently the preferred scheme. In patients who progress under mitotane monotherapy, EDP treatment is also recommended ( 6 , 25 ). The combination of gemcitabine with capecitabine is used for patients failing EDP- and for non-responding patients. Targeted therapies with tyrosine kinase inhibitors have been also suggested. In a single-arm, phase 2 trial including 18 patients with advanced ACC treated with monotherapy with cabozantinib, the median progression-free
