Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


Targeted therapies with tyrosine kinase inhibitors have been also suggested. In a single-arm, phase 2 trial including 18 patients with advanced ACC treated with monotherapy with cabozantinib, the median progression-free survival (PFS) was 6 months, whereas 72·2% of patients were PFS at 4 months ( 26 ). Although initially promising, treatment with IGF-1R antagonists did not prove to be efficacious, suggesting that combination therapies may be the way forward (see below). Radiation Therapy Radiotherapy has a role in symptomatic metastatic disease, particularly bone disease with positive responses in up to 50% - 90% of cancer patients. It is a local therapy which is mainly recommended in incomplete resection, recurrent, or metastatic disease. Postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy significantly improved overall survival (OS) and PFS compared with the use of surgery alone in resected localized ACC patients especially those with stage I/II (median Ki-67%=20). However, this finding was mainly in retrospective studies ( 27 ). Immunotherapy Several Immunotherapy agents have been evaluated in clinical trials for metastatic ACC patients including the immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) pembrolizumab, nivolumab, and avelumab which are monoclonal antibodies directed toward PD-L1, the ligand-binding partner of PD-1, that is expressed on tumor cells. Four ICIs (pembrolizumab, avelumab, nivolumab, and ipilimumab) have investigated the role of immunotherapy in advanced ACC. Despite the different primary endpoints used in these studies, the reported rates of overall response rate and PFS were generally poor ( Table 4 ) ( 28 - 31 ). Three main potential markers of response to immunotherapy in ACC have been described: Expression of PD-1 and PD-L1, microsatellite instability, and tumor mutational burden ( 29 ). PD-1 and PD-L1 are expressed in 26.5% and 24.7% of ACC samples, respectively, with low expression in most tumor samples. In contrast, CTLA-4 expression is observed in 52.5% of ACC samples. Positive PD-1 expression was associated with longer PFS even after considering prognostic factors. In contrast, PD-L1 and CTLA-4 did not correlate with clinical outcomes. Additionally, PD-1 and PD-L1 expression correlated significantly with the amount of CD3+, CD4+, FoxP3+, and CD8+ T cells ( 32 ). However, none of these parameters have been validated in prospective studies. Several mechanisms may be responsible for immunotherapy failure, and a greater knowledge of these mechanisms might lead to the development of new strategies to overcome immunotherapy resistance. Two clinical trials using the PD-1 inhibitor pembrolizumab as monotherapy in ACC have been reported ( 28 , 29
