Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


these agents are also evolving either with two different ICIs, most frequently ipilimumab and nivolumab or a combination of ICIs with a different targeted molecule and especially a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) ( 34 , 35 ). Pembrolizumab along with the VEGF-targeted multi-kinase inhibitor lenvatinib was used in a small retrospective case series including 8 heavily pre-treated patients (the median number of prior lines of systemic therapy was 4) with progressive or metastatic ACC ( 36 ). The median PFS in these patients was 5.5 months (95% CI 1.8–not reached). Two (25%) patients showed a partial response (PR), one (12.5%) patient had stable disease (SD), and five (62.5%) patients developed progressive disease. Other immunotherapies that have been evaluated include the monoclonal antibodies figitumumab and cixutumumab directed against the ACC-expressed insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) receptor, the recombinant cytotoxin interleukin-13-pseudomonas exotoxin A, and autologous tumor lysate dendritic cell vaccine ( 37 , 38 ). All of these agents have shown modest clinical activity. Figitumumab in particular was evaluated in a phase I trial. in 14 patients with metastatic ACC. The best response to treatment observed in this trial was SD seen in 8 of 14 patients. Toxicities were generally mild and included hyperglycemia, nausea, fatigue, and anorexia. Similarly, to figitumumab, cixutumumab (IMC-A12) was evaluated in combination with mitotane in a phase II trial as first-line therapy for patients with advanced or metastatic ACC ( 38 ). The study was terminated early due to slow accrual and limited efficacy. The recorded PFS was only 6 weeks (range: 2.66–48), and in 20 evaluable patients, the best objective response rates (ORR) were a partial response (PR) in one patient and SD in a further seven. Toxicities observed included grade 4 hyperglycemia and hyponatremia and one grade 5 multiorgan failure. Immune-Modulators The potential utility of thalidomide treatment in ACC was evaluated in a retrospective cohort study of the European Networks for the Study of Adrenal Tumors registry ( 39 ). In this study, 27 patients with progression on mitotane or metastatic ACC were treated with 50–200 mg thalidomide daily. The best response noted was SD in two patients, while the remaining 25 patients had progressive disease. The median PFS was 11.2 weeks, with a median OS of 36.4 weeks. Thalidomide was generally well tolerated, with fatigue and gastrointestinal upset being the most commonly observed side effects. Evolving Therapies Active areas of research in this field
