Adrenocortical Carcinoma
KEYWORDS: acc, patients, adrenocortical, pubmed, mitotane, tumor, adrenal, carcinoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, study, tumors, disease, cancer, free, clinical


OS of 36.4 weeks. Thalidomide was generally well tolerated, with fatigue and gastrointestinal upset being the most commonly observed side effects. Evolving Therapies Active areas of research in this field include combinations of ICIs, combination TKIs and ICIs, cancer vaccines, and glucocorticoid receptor antagonists combined with ICIs therapies ( http://www.clinicaltrials.gov ). Targeting mTOR pathway alone with everolimus did not produce significant responses. An extended phase I study of the anti-IGF-1R monoclonal antibody cixutumumab with an mTOR inhibitor showed a partial but short-lived response. Combination treatments such as cabozantinib with atezolizumab in a basket study (CABATEN) or SPENCER study (EO – a novel microbiome-derived therapeutic vaccine with nivolumab) in MSI/PD-L1 negative and low tumor mutational burden tumors have shown a relative response in a subgroup of ACC patients. Other potential targets are antagonists of β-catenin and Wnt signaling pathway and SF-1 inverse agonists. The application of radionuclide therapy using 131I-metomidate has recently been explored. However, despite recent advances in dysregulated molecular pathways in ACCs, these findings have not yet been translated into meaningful clinical benefits. FOLLOW-UP Patients who have undergone a curative resection should be followed up regularly using endocrine markers and abdominal imaging. After complete resection, radiological imaging every 3 months for 2 years and then every 3-6 months for a further 3 years is proposed. However, imaging follow-up beyond 5 years should be adapted in particular cases and be decided by a multidisciplinary team ( 6 ). 18FDG-PET should be performed at regular intervals to detect recurrent disease in high-risk patients. Patients on mitotane therapy should be regularly monitored measuring serum mitotane levels ensuring adequate replacement therapy. In case of recurrence not amenable to surgical excision patients should be enrolled in prospective clinical trials. CONCLUSION Besides considerable accumulated knowledge on genetic profiling, the pathogenesis of ACC is still not delineated although groups of patients with a worse outcome could be identified. Stage of the disease remains a strong predictor of OS whereas new evolving biomarkers need to be further validated. Imaging with 18FDGPET is an integral part of the staging procedure but the available medical therapies for patients with advanced disease have not shown a major impact on patients' prognosis. ACC remains a challenging malignancy with limited effective treatment options. Targeted therapies and immunotherapies, especially in combination regimens, are the subject of continued research. The evolving genomic landscape emphasizes the significance of targeted therapies and the need for further
