Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


ABSTRACT Childhood is a unique time during which individuals accrue bone rapidly, and peak bone mass is achieved early in the third decade of life. Several factors may adversely influence bone accrual, including primary skeletal disorders as well as secondary causes of low bone density such as specific endocrinopathies, altered weight-bearing, and certain medications. Pediatric osteoporosis is defined by both: 1) a clinically significant fracture history; and 2) a low bone mineral density (BMD). Pragmatically, the diagnosis of osteoporosis is indicated by a BMD Z-score ≤ -2.0 and a clinically significant fracture history, defined as two or more long bone fractures by age 10 years, or three or more long bone fractures at any age up to 19 years. Additionally, the finding of one or more vertebral non-traumatic compression fractures is diagnostic of osteoporosis independent of BMD. Notably, the diagnosis of pediatric osteoporosis should not be made based on densitometric criteria (i.e., DXA) alone. As childhood osteoporosis has several potential underlying etiologies, evaluation requires a careful assessment by a clinician with expertise in the possible mechanisms that may be contributing to the increased skeletal fragility. Both non-pharmacologic therapies as well as bone-active medications, such as bisphosphonates, increase bone mass and may lower the risk of fracture. The development of novel therapies that may restore physiologic anabolic bone activity in children with insufficient bone accrual from various causes has the potential to improve care for pediatric patients with osteoporosis. Prospective data acquisition to inform treatment strategies for primary prevention of fracture in children with osteoporosis, as is done in adult populations, is urgently needed to prevent the significant morbidity of fracture in this vulnerable population. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Childhood and adolescence are unique time periods during which individuals accrue bone rapidly, and peak bone mass is only achieved early in the third decade of life. Several congenital or acquired factors may adversely influence bone accrual, including primary skeletal disorders, or secondary causes of low bone density such as delayed puberty, endocrinopathies, altered weight-bearing, and certain medications. Pediatric osteoporosis is defined by both: 1) a clinically significant fracture history; and 2) a low bone mineral density (BMD). Pragmatically, the diagnosis of osteoporosis is indicated by a BMD Z-score ≤ -2.0 and a clinically significant fracture history, defined as two or more long bone fractures by age 10
