Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


Pragmatically, the diagnosis of osteoporosis is indicated by a BMD Z-score ≤ -2.0 and a clinically significant fracture history, defined as two or more long bone fractures by age 10 years, or three or more long bone fractures at any age up to 19 years. Additionally, the finding of one or more non-traumatic vertebral compression fractures is diagnostic of osteoporosis independent of BMD. Notably, the diagnosis of pediatric osteoporosis should not be made based only on densitometric criteria (i.e., DXA) ( 1 ). ETIOLOGIES Primary Causes of Low Bone Density or Osteoporosis Genetic diversity overall accounts for 60-70% of the variability in bone mass, and numerous genes have been associated with bone density in genome-wide association studies and whole genome sequencing analyses (see Table 1 ). These include genes in the WNT signaling pathway (such as LRP4, LRP5, SOST, WNT4, WNT16, WLS ), the osteoprotegerin-Receptor Activator of Nuclear factor Kappa-Β Ligand (RANKL) pathway (such as OPG, RANKL, RANK ), TGFβ signaling ( TGFBR3 ), mesenchymal stem cell differentiation pathway, endochondral ossification pathway (such as RUNX2 ), the pathway of collagen synthesis (such as COL1A1 and COL1A2 ) and other genes such as ESR1, CCDC170 ( located adjacent to ESR1), VDR, and CALCR ( 2 , 3 ) . Further, several bone density associated loci have been associated with fracture risk, including FAM210A, SLC25A13, MEPE, SPTBN1, DKK1, LRP5, SOST, and EN1( 2-4 ). In general, conditions that impair bone or connective tissue development can result in low bone density and increased fracture risk. Monogenic disorders leading to low bone density or osteoporosis include the various types of osteogenesis imperfecta, which are discussed in another chapter of Endotext ( 5 ) and will not be covered here. Marfan syndrome, caused by mutations in the gene coding for fibrillin-1 ( FBN1 ), is a connective tissue disorder inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. In addition to abnormalities in blood vessels, ligaments, muscles, and heart valves, the condition is associated with low bone density at multiple sites, particularly after adjusting for the taller height of these individuals, and with reduced bone accrual during adolescence, especially at the femoral neck ( 6-8 ). Similarly, certain forms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome are associated with low bone density, such as those that result from mutations in COL5A1, COL5A2 and COL3A1 ( 8 ). One study of adults with classical or hypermobility Ehlers-Danlos syndrome reported lower bone density, altered
