Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


such as those that result from mutations in COL5A1, COL5A2 and COL3A1 ( 8 ). One study of adults with classical or hypermobility Ehlers-Danlos syndrome reported lower bone density, altered bone quality (as assessed by the trabecular bone score), and increased prevalence of morphometric vertebral fractures compared with controls (32% vs. 8% in controls) ( 9 ). Another study has reported lower bone density and strength estimates in individuals with hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and generalized joint hypermobility spectrum disorder compared to controls ( 10 ). Other studies have reported similar data ( 11 , 12 ). Low bone density is also observed in patients with homocystinuria with reported low bone density Z-scores in 38% of patients in one study ( 13 ) and lysinuric protein intolerance ( 14-16 ). High homocysteine levels have been demonstrated to have deleterious effects on osteoblasts and osteoclasts, to increase oxidative stress, disrupt cross-linking of collagen molecules, and increase levels of advanced glycation end products, all of which can reduce bone strength ( 17 ). Further, low lysine concentrations are related to growth failure and low bone density ( 18 , 19 ). Osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome (OPPG) is a condition caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous inactivating mutations in the gene coding for low density lipoprotein related protein 5 ( LRP5 ) ( 18-20 ). Wnt ligand binds to the Frizzled/LRP5 complex to activate the canonical Wnt signaling pathway and increase bone formation. Thus, inactivating mutations in LRP5 lead to severe juvenile osteoporosis. The condition is also associated with congenital vision loss that typically manifests in infancy and is a consequence of a spectrum of conditions ranging from phthisis bulbi to vitreoretinal dysplasia. Heterozygous carriers can have low bone density for age and gender norms, but do not demonstrate the eye findings ( 20 , 21 ). Hypophosphatasia is a consequence of both recessive and dominant mutations in ALPL , the gene that codes for tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNSALP), which is necessary for breaking down inorganic pyrophosphate in bone to enable bone mineralization ( 22 ). Reduced mineralization can lead to skeletal defects, altered growth plates resembling rickets, low bone density, and impaired cementum mineralization resulting in early loss of teeth. There are six major forms of hypophosphatasia ranging in severity from very severe (often associated with perinatal demise), to an infantile, juvenile, and adult form, to a very mild form that involves only the
