Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


forms of hypophosphatasia ranging in severity from very severe (often associated with perinatal demise), to an infantile, juvenile, and adult form, to a very mild form that involves only the teeth (odontohypophosphatasia) and a rare form with normal ALP levels called pseudohypophosphatasia. The severity of the condition depends on the amount of ALP activity that results from the gene mutation. Other primary conditions associated with fragility fractures but without low bone density include McCune-Albright syndrome, osteopetrosis, and pycnodysostosis (mutations in the gene coding for cathepsin-K). As these conditions are rarely associated with pediatric osteoporosis, they are not discussed further here. Secondary Causes of Low Bone Density or Osteoporosis NUTRITIONAL AND MALBSORPTIVE Deficient Intake of Calcium and Vitamin D: Insufficient intake of calcium and/or vitamin D can result in suboptimal bone mineralization, and the associated secondary hyperparathyroidism has the potential to cause deleterious effects on bone. However, data are conflicting regarding the impact of calcium or vitamin D deficiency and their replacement on bone mineral content (BMC) and BMD. One systematic review of dairy intake or calcium supplementation in children and adults 1-25 years old concluded that these measures provide no beneficial effect on bone mineralization or fracture risk ( 23 ). A meta-analysis of 21 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) found no significant change in total body BMC in those randomized to supplemental dairy or calcium alone regardless of baseline intake; however, the study did find an increase in whole body BMC in children with low baseline calcium intake who received high doses of dietary calcium supplements or dairy products with or without vitamin D supplementation ( 24 ). Another meta-analysis of 19 RCTs reported a small favorable effect on total body BMC and upper limb BMD with calcium supplementation, but no effect at the lumbar spine or femoral neck ( 25 ). A more recent meta-analysis of 15 RCTs and three non-randomized studies did find a positive impact of calcium supplementation on femoral neck BMD in children ( 26 ). Calcium supplementation has also been reported to have a beneficial effect on bone strength estimates in prepubertal and early pubertal children ( 27 ). Of note, maternal calcium supplementation during pregnancy has not been demonstrated to benefit offspring BMD even when baseline intake was low ( 28 ). Overall, data suggest a possible small effect of dietary calcium or dairy supplementation on bone outcomes when baseline intake is low, with
