Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


when baseline intake was low ( 28 ). Overall, data suggest a possible small effect of dietary calcium or dairy supplementation on bone outcomes when baseline intake is low, with greatest effects at the whole body and femoral neck. Similarly, data for the effects of vitamin D deficiency and supplementation are mixed, but overall suggest some effect on bone outcomes. One study reported that baseline 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) levels predict prospective changes in lumbar spine BMD over the next three years in peripubertal Finnish girls ( 29 ), and a case control study of 150 African American children 5-9 years old reported that those with forearm fractures were more likely to be vitamin D deficient ( 30 ). In Chinese adolescents, 25OHD levels 20-37 nmol/L (8-15 ng/mL) in girls and 33-39 nmol/L (13-16 ng/mL) in boys are reported to have positive effects on bone outcomes ( 31 ). The impact of race is interesting, with dark skinned children typically having lower 25OHD levels than light skinned children, but higher BMD measures. Further, data suggest that vitamin D supplementation in dark skinned (but not light skinned) children living in northern latitudes positively impact femoral neck BMC ( 32 ). Some data (but not all) suggest that maternal vitamin D status may predict offspring BMD, with low maternal 25OHD levels being concerning for low peak bone mass in their children ( 33 ). However, a meta-analysis of vitamin D supplementation during pregnancy and infancy reported no impact on subsequent bone health ( 34 ). Conditions of Low Energy Availability or Energy Deficit Conditions such as anorexia nervosa and the female athlete triad (Triad)/relative energy deficiency in sports (RED-S) are known to be associated with low BMD, reduced bone strength, and increased prevalence of fractures ( 35 , 36 ), even in adolescents. Anorexia nervosa in both male and female adolescents is associated with low BMD ( 35 , 37-39 ), and reduced bone accrual in adolescent girls with anorexia nervosa ( 40 ) raises significant concerns regarding peak bone mass acquisition. Young oligo-amenorrheic athletes have lower BMD than eumenorrheic athletes at the femoral neck and hip and lower strength estimates at the distal tibia; they also have lower spine BMD and lower strength estimates at the radius than non-athletes ( 41-43 ). Factors contributing to impaired bone outcomes include lower lean mass, lower BMI, hypogonadism, low levels of insulin like growth factor-1
