Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


strength estimates at the radius than non-athletes ( 41-43 ). Factors contributing to impaired bone outcomes include lower lean mass, lower BMI, hypogonadism, low levels of insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), relatively high cortisol levels, and alterations in levels of appetite regulating hormones that also have an impact on bone health, (such as insulin, leptin, peptide YY and oxytocin) ( 37 , 44 ). Conditions of Malabsorption Conditions such as celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease, cystic fibrosis, and biliary atresia are associated with malabsorption of essential nutrients, including vitamin D, that are important for optimizing bone health. Celiac disease is associated with low BMD ( 45 ) and an increase in fracture risk ( 46 ). One meta-analysis reported that a lifetime history of bone fractures was twice as common in those with celiac disease versus controls, and that a baseline history of celiac disease is associated with a 30% increase in any fracture and 69% increase in spine fracture ( 46 ). The impact of celiac disease on bone health is related to a decrease in BMI and lean mass (in those who have poor weight gain or a decrease in body weight following diagnosis), malabsorption with reduced bioavailability of calcium and vitamin D, secondary hyperparathyroidism, an increase in intestinal production of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α), and because of antibodies that may bind to bone tissue transglutaminase ( 47 , 48 ). The institution of and adherence to a gluten free diet mitigates most of these factors. Inflammatory bowel disease results in low bone mass in 30-50% of patients, who also demonstrate reduced rates of bone accrual during the adolescent years, resulting in compromised peak bone mass ( 49 ). Data for fractures are conflicting, with studies in children reporting modest to no increase in long bone fractures while studies in adults report a 32-40% increase in fracture risk ( 50-52 ); asymptomatic vertebral fractures are often missed in retrospective studies based on self-report. Some studies (but not all) report a higher risk of impaired bone health in children with Crohn’s disease ( 53 , 54 ) compared to those with ulcerative colitis, likely because the former more commonly affects areas of the intestine responsible for absorption of vital nutrients and is more likely to be associated with use of glucocorticoids, but data are conflicting in this regard ( 55-57 ). In general, children with Crohn’s disease
