Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


of vital nutrients and is more likely to be associated with use of glucocorticoids, but data are conflicting in this regard ( 55-57 ). In general, children with Crohn’s disease are most likely to present with growth and puberty delay. There are also conflicting data regarding whether or not bone compromise is more likely in boys (vs. girls) with inflammatory bowel disease ( 55 , 57 , 58 ). In addition to malabsorption of vital nutrients, factors that contribute to low bone density and impaired bone accrual in inflammatory bowel disease include low BMI and reduced lean mass, associated pubertal delay and hypogonadism, poor nutritional intake, reduced physical activity, active inflammation (cytokine secretion by activated T-cells, and increased IFN-γ and TNF-α, which may inhibit osteoblastic activity and active osteoclasts both directly and via RANK ligand), and chronic use of glucocorticoids, which have anti-inflammatory effects (which helps with the condition) but affect bone metabolism at multiple steps ( 52-55 , 59 , 60 ). In general, the severity of disease correlates with the extent of bone compromise. Cystic fibrosis results in low bone density in 30-60% of individuals with the condition, associated with increased fracture risk in adults ( 61 , 62 ). A 100-fold increase in vertebral fractures and a 10-fold increase in rib fractures has been reported in adults with cystic fibrosis ( 61 ), and this can be problematic, as poor bone health can result in non-eligibility for a lung transplant in certain centers ( 63 ). Many factors contribute to low bone density including reduced BMI and lean mass when associated with low body weight, low levels of IGF-1, pubertal delay and hypogonadism, malabsorption of fat-soluble vitamins (including vitamins D and K), insufficient protein intake in diet, fecal calcium losses, secondary hyperparathyroidism, physical inactivity, increased secretion of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α), chronic use of glucocorticoids, and direct effects of chloride channel defects ( 64-66 ). Biliary atresia is also associated with malabsorption of fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D, and therefore, the condition can result in low bone density, which correlates with the severity of liver disease and jaundice ( 67 , 68 ). CONDITIONS OF REDUCED MECHANICAL BONE LOADING (INCLUDING DISUSE OR IMMOBILIZATION Mechanical loading leads to a reduction in sclerostin secretion from osteocytes, the mechanosensors of bone, and increased signaling along the canonical Wnt pathway with an increase in bone formation ( 69 ).
