Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


leads to a reduction in sclerostin secretion from osteocytes, the mechanosensors of bone, and increased signaling along the canonical Wnt pathway with an increase in bone formation ( 69 ). There are data to suggest that an optimal nutritional status and estrogen levels are permissive for these effects of mechanical loading on bone ( 70 ). Meta-analyses have demonstrated beneficial effects of bone loading activity on bone in children, particularly in the pre- and early pubertal years ( 71 , 72 ). Therefore, conditions of reduced mechanical loading are associated with impaired bone accrual and low BMD. Similarly, the pull of muscle on bone is known to have bone anabolic effects. During periods of muscle disuse and prolonged immobilization, in addition to reduced osteoblastic activity (from increased production of sclerostin), there is an activation of osteoclastic bone resorption. Thus, conditions associated with hypotonia, spinal cord injury, spina bifida, muscular dystrophy, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), and severe burns are associated with impaired bone accrual and low BMD in children and adolescents. Patients with cerebral palsy (particularly those with limited ambulation) have low bone density and increased fracture risk associated with reduced mechanical loading of the skeleton, muscle wasting, suboptimal nutrition, and also vitamin D deficiency or impaired metabolism from concomitant use of certain anti-epileptic drugs ( 73-75 ). Studies have demonstrated that the severity of cerebral palsy predicts the severity of low BMD Z-scores in this condition ( 76 , 77 ). Duchenne and other muscular dystrophies are associated with reduced muscle mass, muscle strength, and muscle function resulting in low bone density and increased fracture risk ( 75 , 78-82 ). Concomitant glucocorticoid therapy also impacts bone deleteriously, although amelioration of the underlying condition through glucocorticoid use may mitigate these effects to some extent ( 83 ). In one study, 53% of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy treated with deflazacort had vertebral fractures over a nine-year period ( 84 ). Another study has reported a 16-fold increased risk of fracture in patients taking daily deflazacort ( 85 ). Vamorolone, a dissociative steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, holds promise for use in this condition without significant bone effects ( 86 ). Studies have also reported impaired calcium metabolism and vitamin D status as well as high IL-6 levels in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which could also contribute to impaired bone health ( 75 , 79 , 80 , 87 ). Similarly, spinal muscular atrophy
