Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


well as high IL-6 levels in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which could also contribute to impaired bone health ( 75 , 79 , 80 , 87 ). Similarly, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is associated with low bone density and increased fracture risk ( 88-91 ). Low bone density in patients recovering from burns ( 92 ) is consequent to immobilization, muscle wasting, increased release of inflammatory cytokines that active osteoclastic activity and increase bone turnover, and low 25OHD levels ( 93 ). In one study, 27% of children with severe burns had low bone density Z-scores ( 92 ). ENDOCRINE CONDITIONS Many hormones have a direct impact on osteoblast and osteoclast activity ( Figure 1 ); thus, a disruption in these hormone systems can have deleterious effects on bone. Figure 1. Regulation of Bone Formation and Resorption. Osteoblasts are the primary bone-forming cells. Osteoblast anabolic activity is stimulated by testosterone and growth hormone and inhibited by cortisol and hyperglycemia. Osteoclasts mediate bone resorption. Thyroid hormone, parathyroid hormone, and inflammatory cytokines increase bone resorption, while estradiol inhibits osteoclast function. Osteocytes embedded within the bone matrix secrete sclerostin which inhibits osteoblast function; mechanical loading decreases sclerostin production thereby “releasing the brake” on osteoblast activity. Calcium deficiency, often as a result of vitamin D deficiency, leads to poorly mineralized bone matrix as well as secondary hyperparathyroidism. Hypogonadism Conditions of hypogonadism ( Table 1 ) are associated with low bone density and impaired bone accrual given the critical role of the gonadal hormones on bone ( 70 ). Estradiol has anti-resorptive effects through its effects on the RANK-RANK-ligand-osteoprotegerin system. Estradiol also inhibits secretion of sclerostin, which otherwise inhibits the canonical Wnt signaling pathway and therefore osteoblast action, and also inhibits osteoclastic action ( 94 ). Testosterone has both direct bone anabolic and anti-resorptive effects, and also affects bone through its aromatization to estradiol. It increases periosteal bone apposition, while decreasing endosteal bone resorption, which collectively accounts for the larger size and thicker cortices of the male adult skeleton ( 70 ). During puberty, the rising levels of estradiol and testosterone are critical for adolescent bone accrual ( 95 ), and hypogonadism is therefore associated with reduced bone accrual, low bone density, and an increased risk of fracture ( 96 , 97 ). Hypercortisolemia Chronic administration of glucocorticoids for underlying inflammatory or other conditions (such as inflammatory bowel disorders, chronic arthritis, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, renal conditions
