Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


of fracture ( 96 , 97 ). Hypercortisolemia Chronic administration of glucocorticoids for underlying inflammatory or other conditions (such as inflammatory bowel disorders, chronic arthritis, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, renal conditions including post-transplant patients, and connective tissue disorders), and endogenous hypersecretion of cortisol (ACTH dependent or independent) can cause low bone density and increase the risk for fracture ( 98 ). Excessive exposure to glucocorticoids has multiple deleterious effects on bone. It inhibits osteoblastic activity (through direct effect on osteoblast precursors and stimulation of apoptosis of mature osteoblasts and osteocytes), reduces mechanosensing ability through its osteotoxic effects, increases osteoclast activity by decreasing osteoprotegerin and increasing RANK-ligand secretion from osteoblasts, impairs calcium absorption from the gut, impairs the renal handling of calcium, has an inhibitory effect on the growth hormone (GH)-IGF-1 axis, and leads to reduced muscle mass, impaired collagen formation, and suppression of the HPG axis ( 98 , 99 ). Importantly, hypercortisolemia is associated with increased fracture risk (particularly of the spine) independent of low BMD, related to the dose and duration of therapy ( 99 ). Low bone density can become evident within 3-6 months of therapy and improves in the first year after stopping glucocorticoids (particularly after the first six months). One study in children receiving glucocorticoids for three years for rheumatic disease reported an unadjusted vertebral fracture incidence rate of 4.4 per 100 person-years, and a 3-year incidence proportion of 12.4% ( 100 ). The highest annual incidence was in the first year, and every 0.5 mg/kg increase in glucocorticoid dose was associated with a doubling of fracture risk. Of concern, 50% of the fractures were asymptomatic and would have been missed without a lateral spine x-ray ( 100 ). Importantly, recovery of vertebral shape and height appears possible in children affected in the pre- or early pubertal years and is unlikely in those who are mid to late pubertal ( 99 , 101 ). Chronic, Untreated Hyperthyroidism Chronically high thyroid hormone levels, including at initial diagnosis of Graves’ disease, can lead to increased bone resorption and low BMD, particularly at cortical sites ( 102-104 ). An increase in IL-6 levels has been associated with this condition and contributes to increased bone resorption ( 105 ). Subclinical hyperthyroidism, as seen in survivors of pediatric differentiated thyroid carcinoma receiving levothyroxine at doses that suppress TSH (but with thyroid hormones levels still in the normal range), does not appear
