Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


hyperthyroidism, as seen in survivors of pediatric differentiated thyroid carcinoma receiving levothyroxine at doses that suppress TSH (but with thyroid hormones levels still in the normal range), does not appear to have major negative effects on bone ( 106 ), indicating that high levels of thyroid hormones, but not suppressed TSH, account for the deleterious effects on bone in patients with hyperthyroidism. Hyperparathyroidism Primary hyperparathyroidism is rare in children and adolescents (and mostly associated with conditions such as MEN1 and MEN2), but secondary hyperparathyroidism occurs in conditions of hypocalcemia and vitamin D deficiency, and both secondary and tertiary hyperparathyroidism may be associated with chronic renal disease. The latter is discussed in a later section of this chapter. Chronic hyperparathyroidism causes increased bone resorption and results in low BMD, and the forearms (and primarily cortical sites) are involved to a greater extent that other parts of the body in this condition, with relative sparing of the spine ( 107 ). Growth Hormone Deficiency and Resistance Both GH and IGF-1 have multiple effects on bone. GH increases levels of osteoprotegerin, stabilizes the canonical Wnt signaling pathway, increases muscle mass and bone growth, while also stimulating local and hepatic IGF-1 secretion. The latter also stabilizes the canonical Wnt signaling pathway to activate osteoblasts, stimulate bone growth and an increase in muscle mass, increases 1-α hydroxylase activity, thus increasing intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphorus, increases tubular reabsorption of phosphorus, and increases RANK ligand activity. Thus, conditions of GH deficiency and resistance are at risk for low BMD. Adults with GH deficiency in the KIMS database had a 2.7 times higher fracture risk than the general population ( 108 ), and other studies have also reported an increased fracture risk in this population ( 109 ) . However, a higher risk of fractures has not been observed in children with GH deficiency who received GH replacement therapy ( 110 ) . Further, areal BMD in children with GH deficiency is often no longer low after adjusting for body size ( 111 ). Quantitative computed tomography studies have reported normal volumetric BMD, lower cortical thickness, and no differences for trabecular structure in children with GH deficiency vs. controls ( 112 ). In conditions of undernutrition, an acquired state of GH resistance and low levels of IGF-1 contribute to low rates of bone accrual and low BMD ( 113 ). Poorly Controlled Diabetes While studies are
