Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


an acquired state of GH resistance and low levels of IGF-1 contribute to low rates of bone accrual and low BMD ( 113 ). Poorly Controlled Diabetes While studies are still in the process of examining the effects of diabetes on bone in children, data seem quite clear that poorly controlled diabetes is associated with low BMD ( 114-117 ). This has been linked to low IGF-1 levels secondary to hypoinsulinemia resulting from poor diabetes control, increased markers of oxidative stress, and increased secretion of inflammatory cytokines ( 118 ). CHRONIC MEDICAL CONDITIONS Chronic inflammatory states such as inflammatory bowel disorders, connective tissue disorders, chronic arthritis and other inflammatory states are associated with low BMD for multiple reasons, including increased release of proinflammatory cytokines, which activate osteoclastic activity, chronic use of glucocorticoids and possibly some degree of undernutrition. Many of these conditions have been covered in previous sections. Systemic Mastocytosis Systemic mastocytosis is associated with low bone density in adults ( 119 , 120 ), and BMD in these patients correlates with tryptase levels, mast cell proportion in bone marrow biopsies, and duration since diagnosis ( 119 ). Data are lacking in children. Leukemia and Other Malignancies Infiltrative conditions such as leukemia and other malignancies is associated with low bone density. Low bone density in patients with malignancy is a consequence of poor nutrition, malabsorption and diarrhea, vitamin D deficiency and associated hyperparathyroidism, release of inflammatory cytokines, chronic use of glucocorticoids, the effects of chemotherapy (gonadal failure, a direct suppressive effect of alkylating agents on bone marrow, and bone toxicity of high-dose methotrexate), as well as a direct effect of radiation therapy on osteoblasts. Pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a known cause of low bone density and osteoporotic fractures ( 121-123 ). One study reported a cumulative fracture incidence of 32.5% for vertebral fractures and 23% for non-vertebral fractures in children with ALL over a six-year period, with 39% of children with vertebral fractures being asymptomatic ( 123 ). Vertebral reshaping occurred in younger children, but persistent vertebral deformity was noted in about 25%, particularly in older children and those with more severe vertebral collapse. Beta-Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Disease A large proportion of children with beta-thalassemia are reported to have low bone mass or bone density with reduced bone accrual compared to controls, regardless of transfusion and chelation regimens ( 124-126 ). One study reported BMC Z-scores of
