Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


to have low bone mass or bone density with reduced bone accrual compared to controls, regardless of transfusion and chelation regimens ( 124-126 ). One study reported BMC Z-scores of ≤ -2 in 61% of adolescents with beta-thalassemia ( 124 ). Another study reported that 82% and 52% of children and adolescents with transfusion dependent beta-thalassemia had low BMD Z-scores at the spine and the hip, respectively ( 125 ). Other studies, however, have reported much lower rates of low BMD in these children. Overall, nutritional status is a major determinant of bone outcomes in this condition. Similarly, sickle cell disease in children and young adults has been associated with low bone density ( 127 , 128 ), even after height adjustment ( 129 ), related to puberty, hip osteonecrosis, chronic pain, and hemoglobin values ( 129 ). Many of these children also have low calcium intake and low serum concentrations of 25OHD ( 127 ). Other predictors of low BMD include a low BMI, male sex, delayed puberty, and low serum zinc concentrations ( 128 , 130 ). Chronic Kidney Disease Chronic kidney disease is a major risk factor for low BMD and fractures because of the associated secondary or tertiary hyperparathyroidism, hyperphosphatemia, reduced mineralization (reduced 1-α hydroxylase), increased cytokines such as TNF-α, and chronic use of glucocorticoids ( 131-133 ). IATROGENIC CAUSES Certain medications can also contribute to low bone density in children and adolescents. Antiepileptic medications such as phenytoin, primidone, phenobarbital, and carbamazepine impair vitamin D metabolism by stimulating hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 enzymes, causing vitamin D deficiency, secondary hyperparathyroidism, and low BMD ( 134 ). Data also suggest that antiepileptic drugs may inhibit the cellular response to parathyroid hormone (PTH). Further, use of valproic acid has been associated with increased osteoclast activity and low BMD in some studies. In contrast, newer antiepileptic medications such as lamotrigine and topiramate have not been associated with impaired vitamin D metabolism or low bone density. As already discussed, chronic glucocorticoid use has several deleterious effects on calcium absorption, retention, and osteoblast and osteoclast function. Methotrexate and certain antiviral drugs have also been demonstrated to contribute to impaired bone health. Further, medications that suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis such as GnRH analogs and depo medroxyprogesterone acetate are associated with low BMD. Lastly, radiation therapy is known to have direct deleterious effects on osteoblasts. LIFESTYLE FACTORS Cigarette smoking is believed to be a
