Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


and depo medroxyprogesterone acetate are associated with low BMD. Lastly, radiation therapy is known to have direct deleterious effects on osteoblasts. LIFESTYLE FACTORS Cigarette smoking is believed to be a risk factor for low bone density ( 135 ), although it is difficult to sort out the effects of smoking on bone versus the contribution of risk factors common among smokers, which include a low BMI, greater intake of alcohol, lower levels of physical activity, and poor diet. The longer the duration of smoking and the greater the number of cigarettes consumed, the greater the risk of fracture. Further, healing following a fracture is slower in smokers than non-smokers, and complications during the healing process are more common in smokers. Even exposure to secondhand smoke has been related to suboptimal bone outcomes. Women who smoke often produce less estrogen and tend to enter menopause earlier, which would also contribute to increased bone loss. Further, levels of cortisol and free radicals are higher in smokers, which may also contribute, and nicotine and free radicals are toxic to osteoblasts. Importantly, quitting smoking does reduce the risk of low bone density and fractures. However, it may take several years to lower a former smoker’s risk. Additionally, alcohol is deleterious to bone when consumed in excess ( 136 ); more than two alcoholic drinks per day are associated with low bone density, and may be related to decreased absorption of calcium, increased concentrations of cortisol and PTH, lower levels of estrogen, and alcohol per se is toxic to osteoblasts. Reduced bone density and impaired bone quality contribute to increased fracture risk ( 137 ). Table 1. Causes of Low Bone Density or Osteoporosis View in own window PRIMARY CAUSES OF LOW BONE DENSITY OR OSTEOPOROSIS Osteogenesis imperfecta (COL1A1, COL1A2, IFITMF5, SERPINF1, CRTAP, LEPRE1 and other genes) Marfan syndrome (FBN1) Ehlers Danlos syndrome (COL5A, COL3A, non-monogenic forms) Homocystinuria (CBS, MTHFR, MTR, MTRR, and MMADHC genes) Lysinuric protein intolerance (SLC7A7) Osteoporosis pseudoglioma syndrome (LRP5) Idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis Hypophosphatasia (ALPL) Others Other Primary Conditions Associated with Fragility Fractures but Without Low Bone Density Polyostotic fibrous dysplasia (GNAS1) Osteopetrosis (LRP5, CLCN6, CA2, others) Pycnodysostosis (CTSK) SECONDARY CAUSES OF LOW BONE DENSITY OR OSTEOPOROSIS Nutritional and Malabsorptive Conditions • Deficient intake of calcium and vitamin D • Conditions of low energy availability or energy deficit (e.g., anorexia nervosa, Female Athlete Triad/Relative Energy Deficiency in Sports (RED-S)) • Conditions of
