Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


day of dairy, and any supplementation of calcium and vitamin D, including type of supplementation (e.g., calcium carbonate, cholecalciferol, etc.) and dosages; 3) physical activity including sports, dance, gym class, physical therapy, and time in stander, as applicable. The physical exam should be comprehensive and include a thyroid and pubertal exam, palpation of the spine, and assessment for hyper flexibility and any physical restrictions (i.e., contractures). Laboratory Studies Dependent upon the degree of clinical concern for osteoporosis or increased bone fragility, determined by the history, next steps could include assessment of bone mineral density by DXA, laboratory studies, and additional testing. If the bone fragility history is equivocal, it is reasonable to start with a DXA and perform additional evaluation if there is demonstrated low BMD. However, if the history is strongly suggestive of osteoporosis or increased bone fragility, the next steps are typically DXA and laboratory evaluation (see Table 2 ). It is helpful to assess calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, 25OHD, PTH, screening for celiac disease, and creatinine. Urinary calcium and creatinine ratio (spot) can be helpful to assess calcium status and there is an increased risk of hypercalciuria in non-ambulatory patients. Rarely, bone turnover markers, such as bone formation markers osteocalcin and bone specific alkaline phosphatase and the bone resorption marker c-telopeptide, may be helpful, if there is a clinical concern for a low bone turnover state. Also, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1-25OHD) is not routinely assessed, but is helpful if there is a clinical concern for a disorder of vitamin D metabolism. Additional biochemical assessments should be considered on a case-by-case basis. Notably, for all laboratory assessments, it is important to have pediatric reference ranges, and pubertal specific (i.e., Tanner stage) reference ranges when applicable, in order to properly interpret values. Imaging Studies EVALUATION OF BONE MINERAL DENSITY DXA is the clinical gold standard for measuring BMD ( 138 ). The current International Society for Clinical Densitometry (ISCD) pediatric guidelines for optimal bone densitometry assessments include: for 4-15 years old total body less head and lumbar spine; 16 years and older lumbar spine and hip ( 1 ). By age 15 years, the skeletal landmarks at the hip that guide positioning are well-developed and enable the replication of positioning. In adolescent patients, it may be useful to perform a transition scan around 16 years old, including total body less head, lumbar spine, and hip, as this will enable
