Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


positioning. In adolescent patients, it may be useful to perform a transition scan around 16 years old, including total body less head, lumbar spine, and hip, as this will enable assessment of interval change at two skeletal sites. The current ISCD pediatric guidelines suggest measurement of hip BMD in the school-age child if lack of weight-bearing and skeletal fragility are concerns. In certain clinical scenarios, it may be useful to obtain a distal lateral femur or forearm scans, such as in patients with neuromuscular disorder with impaired mobility ( 139 ). Distal lateral femur scans can be very informative in non-ambulatory patients. Forearm scans can be useful in patients who are unable to hold still, those with significant contractures, and in patients with orthopedic hardware that precludes scans of other skeletal sites. It is helpful to assess interval change enabling evaluation of bone accrual and comparison of Z-scores over time (i.e., did they increase, remain the same, or decrease). The shortest interval usually assessed is one year, and dependent upon the clinical situation, it may be prudent to reassess after two years or longer, especially if it would not change clinical management. From a practical standpoint, insurance typically requires DXA scans to be performed at least one year apart (> 365 days from last DXA scan), but all scanning sites should be covered and are determined by medical necessity. DXA is interpreted via areal BMD (g/cm 2 ) calculated Z-scores which are age, sex, and ancestry matched and based on pediatric normative data ( 140 ). A Z-score less than -2.0 SD is low, and between -1.0 to -2.0 SD is considered borderline low and may be of clinical significance in patients with risk factors for increased bone fragility. Notably, in pediatrics, the diagnosis of osteoporosis requires both: 1) a clinically significant fracture history, which is defined as at least two long bone fractures in children less than 10 years old, at least three long bone fractures by 19 years old, or any vertebral fractures; and 2) low bone density, with BMD Z-scores ≤ -2.0, assessed by DXA. However, as a two-dimensional projected area of a three-dimensional structure, DXA is affected by bone size. For this reason, pediatric DXA derived areal BMD is affected by bone size and smaller bones may have an artifactually lower BMD Z-score. To take this into account, the BMD Z-score can be adjusted for height
