Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


areal BMD is affected by bone size and smaller bones may have an artifactually lower BMD Z-score. To take this into account, the BMD Z-score can be adjusted for height (i.e., height for age Z-score) in those with short stature ( https://zscore.research.chop.edu/calcpedbonedens.php ) or, in certain scenarios, adjusted for bone age if a patient has delayed puberty but is not short ( 141 ). DXA only assesses bone mass and density and does not fully capture all factors contributing to bone fragility, such as volumetric BMD (g/cm 3 ), bone microarchitecture (e.g., trabecular vs. cortical bone), bone quality, or bone strength. Additional research modalities allow for the assessment of bone microarchitecture, quality, and strength, such as peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT), high resolution pQCT, and trabecular bone score (TBS), a measure of bone quality of the lumbar spine which correlates to bone microarchitecture. There are recently published pediatric TBS reference ranges ( 142 ). However, there are few pediatric normative data for these alternative modalities, currently limiting their use to primarily the research setting. ASSESSING FOR COMPRESSION FRACTURES It is important to evaluate the patient for compression fractures in patients with low bone density and clinical concern, such as back pain or unexplained decrease in physical activity. If there is acute concern for compression fractures, initial evaluation should include spine x-rays, typically two-view anteroposterior and lateral radiographs. If imaging is consistent with compression fracture(s), there should be prompt evaluation by orthopedics and endocrinology, as the disease course can be positively affected with appropriate treatment. Vertebral fracture assessment (VFA) is an additional spine assessment that can be performed concurrently with DXA to assess for spine vertebral fractures. It is commonly used in adults but has only recently been utilized in children ( 143 ). Advantages of VFA over spine radiographs include lower radiation dose, logistics (done at the same visit as DXA), and lower cost. There is emerging evidence that it is useful to screen for vertebral fractures with VFA in high-risk pediatric populations, such as those with Duchenne muscular dystrophy and osteogenesis imperfecta. RADIOGRAPHY Radiographs (i.e., x-rays) do not quantify bone mass and are not a good screening tool for low bone mass. However, if radiographs are performed for other indications, such as a clinical concern for fracture or related to another medical evaluation, when there is at least 30-40% bone loss, there are typical findings, such as bone demineralization,
