Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


more to achieve target serum concentrations ( 152 ). For children on high-dose glucocorticoid therapy for underlying inflammatory or oncologic disease, several specific effects on calcium and vitamin D metabolism must be considered. Glucocorticoids can directly inhibit the gut absorption of calcium via decreased expression of epithelial calcium channels ( 153 ). In addition, glucocorticoids can inhibit the synthesis of 1-25OHD and accelerate the catabolism of vitamin D metabolites ( 154 ). Therefore, these patients may require higher than typical intake of calcium and vitamin D, which should be guided by monitoring circulating concentrations of 25OHD and PTH. Studies of calcium supplementation in healthy children suggest that increases in BMD may be limited to prepubertal children and in those with low baseline calcium intake, again supporting the model of calcium as a threshold nutrient ( 155 , 156 ). Long-term follow-up studies indicate that the effect of calcium supplementation wanes after discontinuation of the intervention ( 25 , 157-160 ). Similarly, a meta-analysis of pediatric vitamin D supplementation studies indicated only modest effects on BMD which were limited to those with a baseline 25OHD <14 ng/mL ( 161 ). One follow-up study showed a loss of effect on BMD three years after completion of the supplementation intervention ( 162 ). These data suggest that, for children at risk for low calcium intake or low circulating vitamin D metabolites, optimization of these factors should be an ongoing process. PHYSICAL ACTIVITY Mechanical loading of the skeleton via high-impact physical activity promotes bone acquisition in growing children ( 71 ). Several observational studies have shown an association of childhood physical activity with increased BMD ( 163-167 ), with effects that persist into young adulthood ( 168 , 169 ). A meta-analysis of RCTs confirmed a significant though small effect of physical activity on measures of bone mass, with increased responsiveness in pre-pubertal participants ( 170 ). Interestingly, this analysis also revealed a positive association of calcium intake with bone mineral content and density, suggesting that calcium enables or synergizes with the effects of weight-bearing ( 171 , 172 ). Among healthy children, a threshold force of approximately 3 times the force of gravity, such as experienced during running or jumping, seems to be required to stimulate bone formation ( 173 ). Importantly, physical activity is beneficial even in healthy children with a high genetic risk for low BMD ( 174 ). The role
