Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


required to stimulate bone formation ( 173 ). Importantly, physical activity is beneficial even in healthy children with a high genetic risk for low BMD ( 174 ). The role of weight-bearing activity in children with underlying musculoskeletal disease is less well-studied. Small studies of children with cerebral palsy have shown efficacy of increasing time of use in a stander ( 175 ) and a physical therapy program ( 176 ) to improve BMD. Whole-body vibration (WBV) has been studied in children with several conditions ( 177 ) including cerebral palsy ( 178-182 ), Duchenne muscular dystrophy ( 183-185 ), osteogenesis imperfecta ( 186 , 187 ), and Down syndrome( 188 ). Synthesis of the results of these studies is challenging due to methodological variation in the magnitude and frequency of vibration as well as the length of treatment sessions. In general, among children with cerebral palsy, WBV appears to have positive effects on bone density and bone strength estimates, while data are conflicting or limited in other conditions. Pharmacologic Intervention WHOM TO TREAT WITH BONE ACTIVE MEDICATIONS Selection of appropriate pediatric patients for pharmacological intervention is not straightforward ( 189 ). Unlike in adults, for whom low BMD alone suffices to confer a diagnosis of osteoporosis, the diagnosis of osteoporosis in children requires evidence of skeletal fragility, defined as multiple long-bone fractures or a vertebral compression fracture ( 190 ). Current evidence-based guidelines for the use of pharmacotherapy do not recommend prophylactic use of pharmacotherapy given the absence of robust prospective data enabling estimation of fracture risk in vulnerable children ( 191 ). This differs from guidelines for osteoporosis management in adults, in whom primary prevention of fracture is a goal ( 192 ). Given that, particularly in children with progressive neuromuscular disease, a single fracture can lead to permanent loss of ambulation ( 193 , 194 ), further research to better define which pediatric patients may benefit from prophylactic therapy is urgently needed. Indeed, in certain particularly high-risk patients, such as those with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), clinicians may choose to treat in advance of a patient meeting pediatric osteoporosis criteria ( 195 ). Conversely, some children who fulfill criteria for osteoporosis may not warrant pharmacotherapy. Children with secondary causes of osteoporosis which may be transient, such as an inflammatory disease that responds to treatment, or glucocorticoids that are discontinued, have the potential to repair BMD losses as
