Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


between increases in BMD and fracture risk reduction ( 247 ). Whether this result generalizes to growing children is uncertain. Small observational studies and randomized controlled trials suggest that bisphosphonates may reduce the incidence of vertebral fracture in glucocorticoid-treated children ( 101 , 237 , 248 ). Data regarding anti-fracture efficacy in other conditions including cerebral palsy is lacking ( 238 ). The choice of which bisphosphonate to use, as well as the optimal dosing regimen and length of treatment, is challenging due to a limited number of trials as well as their relatively small size. Some studies suggest that intravenous (IV) agents may be more effective at promoting vertebral fracture healing ( 249 ), though a head-to-head study of alendronate vs. pamidronate in children with osteogenesis imperfecta showed no difference in BMD accrual, suppression of bone turnover markers, or fracture incidence ( 250 ). A major consideration is the risk of pill esophagitis with oral bisphosphonates, which is exacerbated by the presence of gastrointestinal reflux, leading to the recommendation that patients should swallow pills only with water and remain upright for at least 30 minutes after administration. Given the significant challenge this poses to many children with osteoporosis due to an underlying neuromuscular or other chronic disease, IV bisphosphonate therapy is often the most practical choice. Dosing regimens vary both by underlying condition and between institutions; typical dosing regimens are noted in Table 4 . How long to continue therapy once initiated is also not well-defined. Because growing children accrue new bone via modeling-based growth, intermittent dosing regimens result in new bone not being exposed to bisphosphonates. This leads to the classic “zebra-lines” seen on x-rays of children treated with IV bisphosphonates ( 251 ). Concern has arisen that the junction between regions of treated and non-treated bone may be at particularly high risk of fracture ( 252 , 253 ). For children with primary osteoporosis, continuation of therapy until the completion of growth is thus typically recommended. Monitoring of BMD, via DXA, as well as careful assessment of fracture incidence both by history and spine imaging can guide the maintenance phase of therapy which may require decreases in the dose or frequency of administration ( 252 , 253 ). In children with secondary osteoporosis in which the underlying condition has resolved or is well-controlled, discontinuation of treatment with close monitoring may be appropriate ( 191 ). Short-term Adverse
