Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


). In children with secondary osteoporosis in which the underlying condition has resolved or is well-controlled, discontinuation of treatment with close monitoring may be appropriate ( 191 ). Short-term Adverse Effects of Bisphosphonates Because the skeleton functions as a reservoir for calcium as well as phosphate, anti-resorptive therapy can lead to short-term hypocalcemia and hypophosphatemia, which typically presents in the first 1-3 days after infusion though may have a more delayed onset ( 234 , 254 , 255 ). While often asymptomatic, due to the possibility of symptomatic hypocalcemia requiring IV calcium infusion, it is critical to mitigate this risk by ensuring vitamin D sufficiency (i.e., 25OHD ≥ 30 ng/mL) and optimization of oral calcium intake via diet or supplementation starting the night prior to infusion and continuing for the following 5-10 days. Due to the higher risk of electrolyte abnormalities with the first dose, a 50% reduction is commonly employed ( 256 ). Acute phase reaction characterized by myalgia, bone pain, fever, nausea, and headache is seen in 20-80% of patients following the first IV infusion ( 255-258 ) and can typically be managed with anti-pyretic, analgesic, and anti-nausea medication as needed. Particular care must be taken with patients on glucocorticoid therapy who may have iatrogenic central adrenal insufficiency and may thus require stress-dose glucocorticoid treatment to provide 24-hour glucocorticoid coverage as well as careful anticipatory guidance about the risk of adrenal crisis in this setting. As bisphosphonates are renally cleared, it is critical to assess renal function in children prior to administration to prevent nephrotoxicity. For children with underlying musculoskeletal disease, serum creatinine may not be an accurate reflection of renal function, and measurement of cystatin C as an alternative assessment of renal function should be performed ( 259 ). While concerns about bisphosphonates interfering with fracture healing have been raised, this has not been borne out by evidence except in the special case of iatrogenic injury via osteotomy ( 260 ). Other Adverse Effects of Bisphosphonates In adults, particularly at the high doses used in malignancy, bisphosphonates have been reported to cause several rare but serious adverse events including atypical femoral fracture (AFF) and osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ). An AFF is a low-trauma, transverse fracture of the subtrochanteric femur, typically preceded by prodromal pain ( 261 ). While such fractures have been seen in children with osteogenesis imperfecta, this may reflect the natural history of the
