Osteoporosis and Bone Fragility in Children
KEYWORDS: bone, pubmed, children, low, density, free, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc, pmc free, osteoporosis, calcium, fracture, patients


the subtrochanteric femur, typically preceded by prodromal pain ( 261 ). While such fractures have been seen in children with osteogenesis imperfecta, this may reflect the natural history of the disease and not be related to bisphosphonate use ( 262 , 263 ). Case reports of AFFs in bisphosphonate-treated children with other conditions including idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis ( 264 ) and SMA ( 195 ), suggest that anticipatory guidance regarding the possibility of AFF and early symptoms should be offered to patients. Several case-finding series have not identified bisphosphonate associated ONJ in children ( 265 , 266 ). Several cases of an osteopetrosis-like phenomenon have been reported in children exposed to bisphosphonates; in all cases, these were at substantially higher bisphosphonate doses than are typically prescribed to children ( 267 , 268 ). Finally, possible teratogenicity of bisphosphonates, particularly given their prolonged retention in and release from the skeleton has been raised as a potential concern. However, a case series of twenty one women exposed to bisphosphonates just prior to conception or during pregnancy did not demonstrate any concerning signal of fetal harm ( 269 ). OTHER AGENTS Denosumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against RANKL, a critical factor for osteoclast differentiation and activation. As such, similar to bisphosphonates, denosumab is a potent anti-resorptive medication. The effective half-life of denosumab is much shorter than bisphosphonates, and a major clinical challenge in its use is the “rebound effect,” specifically an increase in bone turnover markers above pre-treatment baseline levels and a significant increase in vertebral fractures after discontinuation in adults ( 270 , 271 ). In several case reports of denosumab use in children, this rebound can present as severe hypercalcemia within just several weeks following the previous dose ( 272-276 ). Given these considerations, denosumab is currently used only sparingly in pediatric populations with specific indications including osteogenesis imperfecta type 6 ( 277 , 278 ) and giant cell tumors ( 279-281 ). Given that most pediatric osteoporosis stems from insufficient bone accrual (i.e., decreased bone formation), the use of anabolic rather than anti-resorptive agents may offer better efficacy ( 282 , 283 ). Sclerostin is an endogenous inhibitor of the canonical wnt-β-catenin signaling pathway, and romosozumab, an anti-sclerostin antibody, has been approved for women with post-menopausal osteoporosis ( 284 , 285 ). An alternative sclerostin antibody, setrusumab, has been investigated in a phase 2 trial of adults with osteogenesis
