Clinical Guideline
KEYWORDS: therapy, evidence, bismuth, quadruple, eradication, treatment, pylori, quadruple therapy, bismuth quadruple, china, recommendation, rct, people, gdg, infection


therapy Iran, Spain, Thailand, and Italy. Five of combinedwithgastricmucosalprotectiveagentsforinitial theseusedtripletherapypluscompoundprobiotics,[79,82- andsecondlineeradicationtreatments(weakrecommen- 84,87] three augmented Lactobacillus, one aug- dation, expert consensus). mentedBifidobacterium,andoneaugmentedClostrid- iumbutyricum.Durationoftreatmentvariedbetween Evidence profile 7 days and 30 days. There were no eligible RCTs with direct comparisons. Relative to bismuth quadruple therapy used alone, China,ingeneral,hasahighantibioticresistancerateon augmenting probiotics may bring small benefit in clarithromycin,metronidazole,andlevofloxacin,andthis eradication rate (on average 40 more eradications per partially contributed to the progressively declining 1000 people treated, RCT=10, N=1614, RR=1.05 eradication rate with triple therapy. This, coupled with 95% CI 1.00–1.10, moderate certainty of evidence, see thelimitationinaccessingAST,ledtoapreferenceamong Supplementary Figure 6, Chinese clinicians to lean toward the use of bismuth B394), and may reduce incidence of diarrhea (3 RCT, quadrupletherapy.Withconsiderationtotheabove,and evidence). There may be little to no difference between triple therapy with gastric mucosal protective agents, the groups on other adverse events, such as stomach-ache GDG concludes that bismuth quadruple therapy has (RR=2.1195%CI0.70–6.36)andvomiting(RR=3.00, advantage, particularly in acceptability and feasibility, 95%CI0.62–14.47),withverylowcertaintyofevidence. among Chinese stakeholders. Chinese MedicalJournal2022;135(24) www.cmj.org What treatment should be recommended to people with 5% to 10% of the H. pylori infections in Chinese refractory H. pylori infection? population are refractory cases, which presents a major challengefortreatment.OursearchdidnotfindanyRCT Recommendation evidenceinthisarea,andrecommendationsinTable4are drawn with reference to clinical studies in refractory TheGDGsuggeststhefollowingtreatmentforpeoplewith patients in China. refractory H. pylori infection: (1) empirical bismuth quadruple therapy with combination of antibiotics listed in Table 4, in addition to PPI or bismuth; and (2) where What therapy should be recommended to people with H. possible,applicationofbacterialcultureandASTtoguide pylori infection who are allergic to penicillin? treatmentplan(weakrecommendation,expertconsensus). Recommendation Implementation suggestion ForpeoplewithH.pyloriinfectionandpenicillinallergy, the GDG suggests bismuth quadruple therapy with 1. With the exception of clarithromycin and levoflox- tetracycline and metronidazole; or bismuth quadruple acine, antibiotic resistance gene mutation analysis therapy containing cefuroxime instead of amoxicillin appearstohaverelativelylimitedvalueduetothelack [Table 5]. The GDG suggests against bismuth quadruple ofconsistencybetweenphenotypicresistanceandgenetic therapy with any combinations of clarithromycin, levo- resistance.SinceamajorityofrefractorycasesinChina floxacin, or metronidazole, with the exception of when areresistanttoclarithromycinandlevofloxacine,apply- metronidazoleisusedinfulldosage(1.5–1.6g/day)(weak ingtheanalysisinthisgrouphaslimitedvalue. recommendation, expert consensus). resistance and accessibility), when applying empirical Implementation suggestion bismuth quadruple therapy, the GDG suggests antibi- oticcombinationslistedinTable4,andadvisesagainst Where possible, the GDG suggests use of individualized repeated application of previously used antibiotics. therapy guided by genetic testing or strain culture. 3. The GDG suggests increasing the dosage of PPI or replacingitwithP-CABinpeoplewithCYP2C19rapid Evidence profile metabolizer. 4. The GDG suggests against treatment plans containing Around5%to10%ofpeoplewithH.pyloriinfectionare rifabutin, since it may further increase drug resistance allergic to penicillin, which presents a challenge to in people with tuberculosis. eradication treatment. Clinically,
