Clinical Guideline
KEYWORDS: therapy, evidence, bismuth, quadruple, eradication, treatment, pylori, quadruple therapy, bismuth quadruple, china, recommendation, rct, people, gdg, infection


GDG suggests against treatment plans containing Around5%to10%ofpeoplewithH.pyloriinfectionare rifabutin, since it may further increase drug resistance allergic to penicillin, which presents a challenge to in people with tuberculosis. eradication treatment. Clinically, an even greater 5. Evidence supporting the use of semi-synthetic tetracy- percentage of people are unable to use amoxicillin for cline (eg, minocycline) in people with refractory variousreasons,forexample,historyofpenicillinallergy, H. pylori infection is limited.[90-92] penicillin allergy test positive, lack of allergy test facility, and other adverse reaction. Only a small proportion of these people truly have immune mediated allergy. It is Evidence profile crucial that clinicians thoroughly examine patients’ condition and history to exclude the possibility of the Refractory H. pylori infection refers to those cases of above and retain the option of amoxicillin use. In H. pylori infection with at least two unsuccessful China, antibiotic resistance rate for clarithromycin, eradication treatments. The GDG estimates that at least levofloxacin, and metronidazole is gradually increasing, Table4:Antibiotic combinationsinbismuthquadrupletherapyforrefractoryH. pyloriinfection. Therapy Antibiotic 1 Antibiotic2 1 Tetracycline 500mg,t.i.d. orq.i.d. Metronidazole400 mg,q.i.d. 2 Amoxicillin 1000mg,b.i.d. ort.i.d. Furazolidone100 mg,b.i.d. 3 Tetracycline 500mg,t.i.d. orq.i.d. Furazolidone100 mg,b.i.d. 4 Amoxicillin 1000mg,b.i.d. ort.i.d. Tetracycline500mg, t.i.d.orq.i.d. 5 Amoxicillin 1000mg,b.i.d. ort.i.d. Metronidazole400 mg,q.i.d. H.pylori:Helicobacterpylori. Table5:Antibiotic combinationsinbismuthquadrupletherapyforpeoplewithpenicillinallergy. Therapy Antibiotic 1 Antibiotic2 1 Tetracycline500 mg,t.i.d.or q.i.d. Metronidazole400mg, t.i.d.orq.i.d. 2 Cefuroxime500 mg,b.i.d. Levofloxacin 500 mg,q.d. 3 Clarithromycin 500mg,b.i.d. Metronidazole400mg, q.i.d. Chinese MedicalJournal 2022;135(24) www.cmj.org which results in reduced effectiveness of eradication regimens and research experiences, there are significant therapies with combinations of these drugs, particularly differences in the treatment framework, processing flow, with pair-wise combinations in the penicillin allergic drug selection, and so on. subgroup population. Options are further restricted for peopleininitialandsecondlinetreatments,astheChinese Applicability of Recommendations regulatory agency (the NMPA) permits furazolidone for use only in refractory infection. Antimicrobial resistant patter and host genotype are two major factors affecting the effectiveness of eradication One cohort study demonstrated an acceptable eradi- treatment (eg, CYPRC19 gene carriers are a PPI fast cation rate with bismuth quadruple therapy containing metabolizer),andmanyLMICshareasimilarantimicrobial tetracycline and metronidazole, but the feasibility of this resistant pattern with China (eg, high resistance to accessibility to tetracycline. Other research investigating systemsintheseLMICoftenlacksresourcesandfacesimilar alternative options produced inconclusive findings, in- sociological (eg, poor awareness level) and technological cludingreplacementofamoxicillinwithcefuroxime, (eg, diagnostic/laboratory detection of infection) chal- increasingthefrequencyanddosageofmetronidazole, lenges, which escalates inappropriate antimicrobial use of semi-synthetic tetracycline (eg, minocycline), use. Therefore, the recommendations in this CPG are and enhancement of acid suppression using P-CAB. applicabletoresource-limitedsettings,andcountrieswith anantibioticresistancepatternsimilartoChina’s. Discussion Acknowledgments Thoughdecreasingindevelopedcountries,theprevalence ofH.pyloriremainshighindevelopingcountries,causing WewouldliketothankthefollowingGDGmembersfor antimicrobial resistance is
