NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, seizures, injury, liver injury, anticonvulsant, partial, induced, drug, anticonvulsants, induced liver, syndrome, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, drug induced


Induced Liver Injury [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; 2012-. Anticonvulsants. [Updated 2019 Apr 18]. Bookshelf URL: Anticonvulsants Updated: April 18, 2019. OVERVIEW Anticonvulsant medications include many agents that have been incriminated in causing idiosyncratic drug induced liver disease. Indeed, several commonly used anticonvulsants (phenytoin, valproate, carbamazepine) are consistently ranked in the top causes of clinically apparent drug induced liver injury and are frequently listed in causes of drug induced acute liver failure. Because of the importance of pharmacotherapy of epilepsy, the potential hepatotoxicity of these agents has been considered acceptable. Nevertheless, attempts at developing safer agents of equivalent or superior efficacy continue. Major anticonvulsants include hydantoin derivatives, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, succinimides, valproic acid, gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) precursors and analogues, inhibitors of DMDA receptors and a multitude of miscellaneous recently introduced agents. At least two dozen agents are licensed and approved for use as anticonvulsants in the United States. The anticonvulsants that are available in the United States, the likelihood score for hepatotoxicity, their year of introduction or approval and their major approved indications are shown in the Table which includes links to the individual agents with the full description and discussion of their potential for hepatotoxicity. 1916. Phenobarbital is an aromatic anticonvulsant and, like phenytoin and carbamazepine, can cause the aromatic anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome, a form of drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome. Questions remain regarding the anticonvulsant efficacy of phenobarbital and it is now rarely used for this indication. Phenytoin, formerly known as diphenylhydantoin, was introduced into use as an anticonvulsant in 1938 and remains one of the most commonly used medications for epilepsy. Fosphenytoin is an intravenous formulation of phenytoin that has been available since 1995 and is used for status epilepticus and as a substitute for oral phenytoin during surgery. Phenytoin is a well known cause of acute liver injury, which is usually part of the anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome and can be severe and lead to acute liver failure and death. Carbamazepine was introduced into use in 1963 for treatment of generalized seizures and with other carbamazepines (oxcarbazepine, eliscarbazepine) is still widely used. Carbamazepine can also cause the anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome and is a well known cause of acute drug induced liver injury as well as serious cutaneous reactions such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. Lamotrigine is a more recently developed anticonvulsant that has
