NLM Citation: LiverTox: Clinical and Research Information on Drug-
KEYWORDS: liver, seizures, injury, liver injury, anticonvulsant, partial, induced, drug, anticonvulsants, induced liver, syndrome, pubmed, pmid, pubmed pmid, drug induced


cause of acute drug induced liver injury as well as serious cutaneous reactions such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. Lamotrigine is a more recently developed anticonvulsant that has broad antiseizure activity. Lamotrigine can also cause the anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome and has become one of the most common causes of clinically apparent drug-induced liver injury. 2 LiverTox The benzodiazepines are both anxiolytic and antiepileptic and several including diazepam, clonazepam and clorazepate are used in the therapy of epilepsy. Benzodiazepines are also discussed under the antianxiolytic medications. They appear to act by enhancing gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor activity. While many benzodiazepines have antiseizure activity, only clonazepam and clorazepate are commonly used in long term treatment of epilepsy. Diazepam and other parentally administered benzodiazepams are also used for therapy of status epilepticus. Benzodiazepines have only rarely been implicated in causing drug induced liver injury and have not been implicated in the anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome. The succinimides are active against clonic motor seizures and absence seizures (petit mal) in humans. This class includes ethosuximide (1960) and methsuximide (1957). Valproic acid or valproate is a branched chain carboxylic acid that was found to have antiseizure activity somewhat by accident. Valproate was introduced in 1978 and rapidly became a commonly used agent for partial seizures and for poorly controlled generalized seizures. Valproic acid is also used in the treatment of mood and bipolar disorders. Valproate can cause several distinctive forms of liver injury, ranging from asymptomatic serum aminotransferase elevations to an acute hepatitis which can be severe and even fatal, to a Reye syndrome like syndrome of hepatic dysfunction and microvesicular fatty liver. High doses of valproic acid can also cause stupor and coma from hyperammonemia without accompanying severe liver injury. Topiramate is a sulfamate-substituted monosaccharide and unique and broadly active anticonvulsant introduced in 1996 that is still widely used. Topiramate is also used for prevention of migraine headaches, as a weight loss agent and (off label) for mood disorders and bipolar illness. Levetiracetam is a pyrrolidine derivative and unique anticonvulsant introduced in 1999 that has been increasing used because of its safety and excellent tolerability. Levetiracetam binds to the synaptic vesicle glycoprotein SV2A and appears to act by inhibiting calcium channels which participate in neurotransmitter release. Levetiracetam has been linked to rare instances of drug induced liver disease, but not with the anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome. Brivaracetam is an anticonvulsant of similar structure
