CaseRepGastroenterol2024;18:333–339
KEYWORDS: case, colonoscopy, pca, patient, appendicitis, procedure, abdominal, doi, gastroenterology, case reports, basel, reports doi, fig, reports, publishedbys kargerag


<72 h after colonoscopy with no endoscopic evidence of appendicitis or cecal in- flammation at the time of the initial procedure . In this case, the patient’s symptoms developed within 12 h of the procedure, and the cecum and appendiceal orifice appeared patient was started on antibiotics and admitted for observation, eventually requiring ex- ploratorylaparotomy.Possibly,agreatersuspicionofPCAwouldhavepreventedtheneedfor an exploratory laparotomy. Although randomized trials suggest that antibiotics alone can be used to treat uncom- plicatedappendicitisdue to delayed diagnosis, the majorityof post-colonoscopy cases were treated with open appendectomy . With increased awareness and early detection, the laparoscopic approach could be a safer alternative in these patients. CaseRepGastroenterol2024;18:333–339 338 Case Reports in DOI: ©2024TheAuthor(s).PublishedbyS.KargerAG,Basel www.karger.com/crg Gastroenterology Princeetal.:Post-ColonoscopyAppendicitis:ACaseReportandReviewofLiterature PCA is an extremely rare complication that can be mistaken for more well-known complications such as postpolypectomy syndrome. This can potentially lead to delays in recognitionandtreatmentaswellasmoreseriousoutcomes.Increasedclinicalawareness is necessary for early diagnosis and timely intervention. PCA should be considered an important differential diagnosis for all patients presenting with abdominal pain after colonoscopy. Statement of Ethics This study protocol was reviewed and the need for approval was waived by the Insti- tutional Review Board at HCA Florida Healthcare/USF Morsani College of Medicine GME Citrus Hospital Program. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of the details of their medical case and any accompanying images. Conflict of Interest Statement The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare. Funding Sources There are no funding sources to declare. Author Contributions Medicine GME Citrus Hospital Program: writing and editing. Data Availability Statement Alldatageneratedoranalyzedduringthisstudyareincludedinthisarticleanditsonline supplementarymaterialfiles.Furtherinquiriescanbedirectedtothecorrespondingauthor.
