Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


ABSTRACT Inherited abnormalities of thyroid hormone-binding proteins are not uncommon and can predominate in some ethnic groups. They alter the number of iodothyronines present in serum and, although the concentration of free hormones remains unaltered, routine measurement can give erroneous results. With a single exception, inherited defects in thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG), are X-chromosome linked and thus, the full phenotype is expressed mostly in males. Partial TBG deficiency is more common than complete deficiency. High frequency of variants TBGs have been identified in African Blacks, Australian Aborigine, and Eskimos. Most defects producing TBG deficiency are caused by mutations in the structural gene. However, inherited X-linked partial deficiency can occur as the consequence of mutations of a gene enhancer. Inherited forms of TBG excess are all caused by gene duplication or triplication. Mutations in the transthyretin (TTR) gene producing a molecule with increased affinity for T 4 are relatively rare. A variant TTR produces transient hyperthyroxinemia during non-thyroidal illness. Mutations of the human serum albumin (HSA) gene produce increased concentration of serum T 4 , a condition known as familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH). They are relatively more common in individuals of Hispanic origin. They cause an increase in serum T 4 owing to increased affinity for this iodothyronine but high concentrations in free T 4 observed in direct measurement by some commercial methods are erroneous. A variant with increased affinity for T 3 has been also identified. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Abnormalities in the serum proteins that transport thyroid hormone do not alter the metabolic state and do not cause thyroid disease. However, they do produce alterations in thyroid hormone concentration in serum and when unrecognized have led to inappropriate treatment. When the abnormality is the consequence of altered synthesis, secretion or stability of the variant serum protein, the free thyroid hormone level estimated by most of the clinically available techniques remains within the range of normal. In contrast, when the defect results in a significant alteration of the affinity of the variant protein for the hormone, estimates of the free thyroid hormone level often give erroneous results and thus, it is prudent to measure the free hormone concentration by more direct methods such as equilibrium dialysis or ultrafiltration. This is also true in cases of complete TBG deficiency, in whom the estimation of free thyroid hormone level
