Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


concentration by more direct methods such as equilibrium dialysis or ultrafiltration. This is also true in cases of complete TBG deficiency, in whom the estimation of free thyroid hormone level in serum by indirect methods, or using iodothyronine analogs as tracers, can also give erroneous results. The existence of inherited defects of serum transport of thyroid hormone was first recognized in 1959 with the report of TBG-excess by Beierwaltes and Robbins ( 1 ). Genetic variants for each of the three major thyroid hormone transport proteins have since been described and in subsequent years, the molecular basis of a number of these defects has been identified ( 2 ). Clinically, these defects usually manifest as either euthyroid hyperthyroxinemia or hypothyroxinemia and more rarely, isolated hypertriiodothyroninemia ( 3 ). Associated abnormalities such as thyrotoxicosis, hypothyroidism, goiter, and familial hyperlipidemia are usually coincidental ( 4 ). However, individuals with thyroid disorders are more likely to undergo thyroid testing leading to the fortuitous detection of a thyroid hormone transport defect. THYROXINE-BINDING GLOBULIN (TBG) DEFECTS Familial TBG abnormalities are inherited as X-chromosome linked traits ( 5 , 6 ), compatible with the location of the TBG ( SERPINA7 ) gene on the long arm of the X-chromosome (Xq22.2) ( 7 , 8 ). This mode of inheritance also suggests that the defects involve the TBG gene proper, rather than the rate of TBG disposal, as long ago postulated ( 5 ). The normal, common type TBG (TBG-N or TBG-C), has a high affinity for iodothyronines [affinity constants (Ka): 10 -10 M -1 for T 4 and 10 -9 M -1 for T 3 ] and binds 75% of the total T 4 and T 3 circulating in blood. Thus, with a single exception [HSA R218P and R218S ( 9 - 11 ), see below], among the inherited abnormalities of thyroid hormone transport proteins, those involving the TBG molecule produce usually more profound alterations of thyroid hormone concentration in serum. Clinically TBG defects are classified according to the level of TBG in serum of affected hemizygotes (XY males or XO females, that express only the mutant allele): complete TBG deficiency (TBG-CD), partial TBG deficiency (TBG-PD) and TBG excess (TBG-E). In families with TBG-CD, affected males have no detectable TBG and carrier females (mothers or daughters) have on the average half the normal TBG concentration ( 4 ). In families with partially TBG deficient males, the
