Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


have no detectable TBG and carrier females (mothers or daughters) have on the average half the normal TBG concentration ( 4 ). In families with partially TBG deficient males, the mean TBG concentration in heterozygous females is usually above half the normal. Serum TBG concentration in males with TBG-E is 2 to 4-fold the normal mean and that in the corresponding carrier females, is slightly higher than half that of the affected males. These observations indicate an equal contribution of cells expressing the normal and mutant TBG genes. On rare occasions, selective inactivation of the X-chromosome has been the cause of manifestations of the complete defect (hemizygous phenotype) in heterozygous females ( 12 , 13 ). Inherited TBG defects can be further characterized by the level of denatured TBG (dnTBG) in serum and the physicochemical properties of the molecule. The latter can be easily determined without the need of purification. These properties are: (a) immunologic identity; (b) isoelectric focusing (IEF) pattern; (c) rate of inactivation when exposed to various temperatures and pH; and (d) affinity for the ligands, T 4 and T 3 . More precise identification of TBG defects requires sequencing of the TBG gene. MiP a Subject With TBG-CD The proposita, a phenotypic female, was 13 years old when first seen because of retarded growth, amenorrhea and absence of secondary sexual traits. She was the first sibling of a second marriage for both parents. The family included a younger brother and four older half-siblings, two maternal and two paternal. The proposita was born to her 30-year-old mother after full-term, uncomplicated pregnancy. Infancy and early childhood development were normal until 4 years of age when it became apparent that she was shorter than her peers. She was 12 years of age when a low protein bound iodine (PBI, then a measure of T 4 ) of 2.2 µg/dl (normal range 4.0-8.0) was noted and treatment with 120 mg of desiccated thyroid (equivalent to 200µg L-T 4 ) daily was initiated. Since, during the ensuing 6 months, no change in her growth rate occurred and because PBI remained unchanged (2.0 µg/dl), the dose of desiccated thyroid was increased to 180 mg/day. This produced restlessness, perturbed sleep and deterioration of school performance necessitating discontinuation of thyroid hormone treatment. No family history of thyroid disease or short stature was elicited and the parents’ denied consanguinity. On physical examination, the patient appeared younger
