Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


performance necessitating discontinuation of thyroid hormone treatment. No family history of thyroid disease or short stature was elicited and the parents’ denied consanguinity. On physical examination, the patient appeared younger than her chronological age, was short (137 cm) and showed no signs of sexual development. She had a webbed neck, low nuchal hairline, bilateral eyelid ptosis, shield-shaped chest, increased carrying angle and short 4th metacarpals and metatarsals. The thyroid gland was normal in size and consistency. Buccal smear was negative for Barr bodies and karyotyping revealed 45 chromosomes consistent with XO Turner's syndrome. No chromosomal abnormalities were found in lymphocytes from the mother and father. Bone age was 12 years and X-ray of the scull showed a mild degree of hypertelorism. PBI and butanol extractable iodine were low at 2.0 and 1.8 µg/dl, respectively. Resin-T 3 uptake was high at 59.9% (normal range 25-35%) indicating reduced TBG-binding capacity. A 24-hour thyroidal radioiodide uptake was normal at 29%, basal metabolic rate was +20% (normal range -10 to +20) and TG autoantibodies were not present. Serum cortisol was normal as were the responses to ACTH and metyrapone. Basal growth hormone concentration was normal at 8.0 ng/ml which rose to 32 ng/ml following insulin hypoglycemia. Studies were carried out in all first-degree relatives and the proposita was treated cyclically with diethylstilbestrol which produced withdrawal uterine bleeding and gradual breast development. Five family members, in addition to the proposita had thyroid function tests abnormalities. Two were males and three females. The two males (maternal grandfather and maternal half-brother) and the proposita had the lowest PBI levels and undetectable T 4 -binding to serum TBG. In contrast, the three females (mother, maternal aunt and maternal half-sister) had a lesser reduction of their PBI and T 4 -binding capacity to TBG approximately one-half the normal mean value. The two sons of the affected grandfather (maternal uncles to the proposita) had normal PBI and T 4 -binding to TBG. No interference with T 4 -binding to TBG or other serum protein abnormalities were found in affected members of the family. In vivo T 4 kinetic studies revealed a rapid extrathyroidal turnover rate but normal daily secretion and degradation, compatible with their eumetabolic state. INTERPRETATION The incidental identification of thyroid tests abnormalities in the proposita is typical for most subjects with TBG deficiency as well as TBG excess. So is the initial unnecessary treatment; though less frequent with
