Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


of thyroid tests abnormalities in the proposita is typical for most subjects with TBG deficiency as well as TBG excess. So is the initial unnecessary treatment; though less frequent with the routine measurement or estimation of free T 4 . The inherited nature of the defect is suspected by exclusion of factors known to cause acquired TBG abnormalities and should be confirmed by the presence of similar abnormalities in members of the family. The absence of male-to-male transmission and the carrier state of all female offspring of the affected males is a typical pattern of X-chromosome linked inheritance. This is further supported by the complete TBG deficiency in individuals having a single X chromosome (males and the XO female) and only partial TBG deficiency in carrier XX females. Since the publication of this family in 1968 ( 14 ), the cause of the TBG defect was identified. From the mutation identified in the TBG gene of this family [TBG Harwichport (TBG-CD H)], it can be deduced that the molecule is truncated, missing 12 amino acids at the carboxyl terminus ( 15 ). Fifty six TBG variants have been so far identified and in 50 the precise defect has been determined by gene analysis. Their primary structure defect, some of their physical and chemical properties and the resulting serum T 4 concentrations are summarized in Table 1 and figure 1 . Figure 1. Properties of some TBG variants causing partial TBG deficiency (TBG-PD). The TBG variants are: -SD, San Diego; -G, Gary; -M, Montreal, -S, slow; -A, Aborigine; -Poly, polymorphic; -Cgo, Chicago; and -Q, Quebec. For detailed description, see ( 1 ) Sarne et al ( 39 ) and Bertenshaw et al ( 37 ); ( 2 ) Murata et al ( 34 ), Mori et al ( 43 ) and Kambe et al ( 60 ); ( 3 ) Takamatsu et al ( 44 ) and Janssen et al ( 45 ); ( 4 ) Takamatsu et al ( 55 ) and Waltz et al ( 56 ); ( 5 ) Murata et al ( 61 ) and Takeda et al ( 47 ); ( 6 ) Mori et al ( 26 ) and Takeda et al ( 57 ); ( 7 ) Takamatsu et al ( 59 ) and ( 58 ); ( 8 ) Takamatsu et al ( 44 ) and Bertenshaw et al ( 49 ). [Modified
