Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


enhancer - - G A ( 53 ) Other Variants Slow S 1 171 D (Asp) N (Asn) GAC AAC ( 54 - 56 ) Polymorphism Poly 3 283 L (Leu) F (Phe) TTG TTT ( 26 , 57 ) Chicago CH or Cgo 3 309 Y (Tyr) F (Phe) TAT TTT ( 58 , 59 ) * Codon numbering from fist amino acid of the mature protein. The 20 amino acids of the signal peptide are numbered -1 to -20, from N- to C-terminus. The codon at the site of mutation is followed by the codon at the site of termination of translation. † Coexistence of TBG Poly § complete deficiency is uncertain as the TBG assay used was unable to detect values <10% the mean normal ¶ Also a silent mutation at codon 55: GCA -> GCG a Personal communication b Personal observation c Communicated by Pia Hermanns and Joachim Pohlenz, University of Mainz, Germany del, delete; add, addition; aa, amino acid; fs, frame shift Pt, patent; fam, family IVS, intervening sequence or intron; ASS, acceptor splice site; DSS, donor splice site. Complete Deficiency of TBG (TBG-CD) TBG-CD is defined as undetectable TBG in serum of affected hemizygous subjects or a value lesser than 0.03% the normal mean; the current limits of detection using the most sensitive radioimmunoassay (RIA) being 5ng/dl ( 26 ). The prevalence is approximately 1:15,000 newborn males. Twenty-seven TBG variants having this phenotype have been characterized at the gene level. These are shown in table 1 that also contains references to the original publications. Twenty two of the 27 TBG-CDs have truncated molecules. Early termination of translation of these variants is caused in 4 by a single nucleotide substitution (TBG-CDP1, TBG-CDP2, CD5, TBG-CDB and TBG-CDT2) or by a frame shift due to one nucleotide deletion (TBG-CDY, TBG-CDN, TBG-CDNi, TBG-CD6, CD-PL, TBG-CD7, TBG-CD8, and TBG-CDJ, TBG-CDPe) or deletion of 19 nucleotides (TBG-CDH). In 7 variants mutations occurred in introns, 6 of which are close to splice sites (TBG-CDMi, TBG-CDAN, TBG-CDK, TBGBn, TBG-CDH, TBG-CDL and TBG-CDJa). A mutation at the acceptor splice junction caused also a frame shift producing early termination of translation in TBG-CDK ( 24 ). In contrast a nucleotide substitutions in the 5' donor splice site of intron IV (TBG-CDL and TBG-CDJa), resulted in a complete splicing of exon 3, also producing a truncated molecule ( 30 ) and personal observation. A similar
