Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


donor splice site of intron IV (TBG-CDL and TBG-CDJa), resulted in a complete splicing of exon 3, also producing a truncated molecule ( 30 ) and personal observation. A similar mechanism is likely responsible for CD in TBG-CDMi, though direct experimental prove was not provided ( 16 ). Single amino acid substitution was the cause of CD in five families (TBG-CDT1, TBG-CDPa, TBG-CD5, TBG-CDP3 and TBG-CDKo). In TBG-CD5 Leucine-227 with a proline was shown to cause aberrant post-translational processing ( 45 ). One TBG variant (TBG-CDNI), with two nucleotides deleted close to the carboxyl terminus, the resulting frame shift predicts an extension of the molecule by the addition of 7 nonsense residues ( 35 ). TBG-CDJ has been so far identified only in Japanese but its allele frequency in the population remains unknown ( 32 , 57 ) (Table. 1). Partial Deficiency of TBG (TBG-PD) This is the most common form of inherited TBG deficiency having a prevalence of 1:4,000 newborn. Identification of heterozygous females by serum TBG measurement may be difficult because levels often overlap the normal range. In contrast to variants with complete TBG deficiency, all TBG-PDs have missense mutations. It is possible that three of the five variants with single amino acid substitutions included in the category of TBG-CD have also partial deficiency which was not identified owing to the low sensitivity of routine assays for the measurement of TBG. Twenty-one different mutations, producing a variable degree of reduction of TBG concentration in serum, have been identified, 20 of which involve mutations in the TBG gene proper. They are listed in table 1 . In addition, some of these variants are unstable (TBG-PDG, TBG-PDA, TBG-PDSD, TBG-PDM TBG-PDQ and TBG-PDJ) or have lower binding affinity for T 4 and T 3 (TBG-PDG, TBG-PDA, TBG-PDS TBG-PDSD, TBG-PDM and TBG-PDQ), impaired intracellular transport and secretion (TBG-PDJ and TBG-CDJ) and some exhibit an abnormal migration pattern on IEF electrophoresis (TBG-PDG, TBG-PDM, and TBG-PDQ) ( Fig. 1 ). Variants with decreased affinity for T 4 and T 3 have a disproportionate reduction in hormone concentration relative to the corresponding serum TBG level ( Fig. 2 ) and estimations of the free hormone levels by any of the index methods gives erroneous results ( 39 , 64 ). One of these variants, TBG-PDA, is found with high frequency (allele frequency of 51%) in Australian Aborigines ( 47 ). Figure 2. Serum T 4
