Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


( 39 , 64 ). One of these variants, TBG-PDA, is found with high frequency (allele frequency of 51%) in Australian Aborigines ( 47 ). Figure 2. Serum T 4 -bound to TBG and the concentration of TBG and denatured TBG (dnTBG) in hemizygous subjects expressing the different TBG variants. Results, graphed as mean ± SD, were normalized by expressing them as % of those for the common type TBG (TBG-C). For abbreviations used in the nomenclature of the TBG variants, see legend to figure 1 . [Adapted from Janssen et al ( 63 )]. A unique family with TBG-PD has been described in which inheritance of the partial deficiency was autosomal dominant with transmission of the phenotype from father to son ( 65 ). The concentration of TBG in affected males and females was about one half the normal mean value. The TBG had normal affinity for T 4 . normal IEF and heat lability. No sequence changes were found in the entire coding arias of the gene or in the promoter region. Although the mechanism of TBG-CD in this family is unknown an abnormality in one of the factors regulating TBG gene transcription is a distinct possibility. Further studies to determine the genetic defect have been hampered by lack of subjects’ cooperation. In 5% (4 or 74) families with X-chromosome lined TBG deficiency, studied in the author’s laboratory, no mutations were identified in the entire TBG gene, including all exons, introns, untranslated regions and the promoter region of the gene, covering a total of 9.2 kb. Next-generation sequencing identified a novel single nucleotide substitution 20 kb downstream of the TBG gene in all four families. In silico analysis predicted that the variant resides within a liver-specific enhancer. In vitro studies confirmed the enhancer activity of a 2.2-kb fragment of genomic DNA containing the novel variant and showed that the mutation reduces the activity of this enhancer. The affected subjects share a haplotype of 8 Mb surrounding the mutation. Three were of known Arab ethnicity and in all four families the most recent common ancestor was estimated to be 19.5 generations ago (95% confidence intervals). This is first report of an inherited endocrine disorder caused by a mutation in an enhancer region ( 53 ). TBG Excess (TBG-E) TBG-E has a lower prevalence than TBG deficiency, with values obtained from neonatal screening programs from 1:6,000 to 1:40,000 ( 66
