Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


an enhancer region ( 53 ). TBG Excess (TBG-E) TBG-E has a lower prevalence than TBG deficiency, with values obtained from neonatal screening programs from 1:6,000 to 1:40,000 ( 66 , 67 ). Considering that some newborn may have non-inherited, transient TBG excess, a conservative overall estimate of inherited TBG-E would be 1:25,000 ( 68 ). Early sequencing of the coding and promoter regions of subjects with TBG-E failed to show any defects ( 69 ). However, in 1995, Mori et al ( 70 ) found that gene amplification was the cause of TBG-E in two families. Gene triplication and duplication were demonstrated by gene dosage studies using HPLC measurements of the PCR -amplified product. As expected, hemizygous affected males had approximately 3- and 2-fold the average normal serum TBG concentration, respectively. The presence of multiple TBG gene copies in tandem was confirmed by in situ hybridization of prometaphase and interphase chromosomes from an affected male ( Fig. 3 ). Figure 3. Hybridization in prometaphase chromosomes of cultured skin fibroblasts obtained from an affected male with TBG-E. A complete TBG cDNA was used as a probe. Three TBG gene copies are seen in tandem with each exon clearly identified in the starched chromosome shown in panel B. TBG Variants with Unaltered TBG Concentrations in Serum Five TBG variants have been identified that present with normal or slight and clinically insignificant alterations in their concentration in serum. Four occur with high frequency in some population groups and thus, can be considered as polymorphic. TBG-Poly ( Fig. 1 ), with no alterations of its physical or biological properties, has been detected in 16% and 20% of the French Canadian and Japanese populations, respectively ( 26 , 57 ). TBG-S exhibits a slower mobility on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and cathodal shift on IEF ( 54 , 55 ), owing to the loss of a negative change due to the replacement of the normal Asp 171 by Asn ( 56 ) ( Figs. 1 and 4 ). It has an allele frequency of 5 to 16% in Black populations of African origin and 2 to 10% in Pacific Islanders. The molecular structure of two other polymorphic TBG variants has not been identified. TBG-F has an allele frequency of 3.2% in Eskimos residing on the Kodiac and St. Lawrence islands. It has a slight anodal (fast) mobility on IEF ( 71 ). TBG-C1 has been
