Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


an allele frequency of 3.2% in Eskimos residing on the Kodiac and St. Lawrence islands. It has a slight anodal (fast) mobility on IEF ( 71 ). TBG-C1 has been identified in subjects inhabiting two Mali village ( 72 ). It has a small cathodal shift on IEF and an allele frequency of 5.1%. TBG-Cgo, resistant to high temperatures ( 59 ), has normal affinity for T 4 and T 3 . All SERPINs except human TBG have a Phe at a position corresponding to Tyr 309 . Structure modeling suggests that the replacement of the normal Tyr 309 by Phe in TBG-Cgo, ties the internal α-helix hI1 to the molecule, thus stabilizing its tertiary structure ( 58 ). Studies using recombinant TBG–Cgo showed that the molecule exists in loop expelled conformation. However, when exposed at 37°C, the protein readily converts to a more stable loop inserted conformation explaining its subsequent enhanced heat stability, as observed in vivo ( 73 ). Figure 4. Microheterogeneity of TBG. Tracer amounts of l25 I‑T 4 were added to serum prior to submission to isoelectric focusing and radioautography. TBG‑C (common type) exhibits 6 bands spanning from pH 4.18 to 4.58. Three of the six are major and shown here between pH 4.35 and 4.50. TBG-Slow (TBG‑S) from a hemizygous male shows a cathodally shifted pattern. A mixed pattern occurs in heterozygous females expressing both TBG-C and TBG-S. [Reproduced from Waltz et al ( 56 )]. Biological Consequences of Structural Changes Caused by Mutations in the TBG Gene The mechanisms whereby structural abnormalities of the TBG molecule produce the variant phenotypes have been investigated by expression of some of these molecules in living cells. Contrary to earlier speculation, increased extracellular degradation due to instability is a rare cause reduced concentration of the variant TBG in serum ( 38 ). More commonly, intracellular retention and degradation of the defective TBG molecules is responsible for their presence in low concentrations in serum ( 45 , 51 , 60 , 74 ). Of note is the full intracellular retention of TBG-CD5 despite synthesis in normal quantities. A single amino acid substitution in TBG-CD5 is sufficient to alter its tertiary structure and thus prevent export. The same finding in the case of TBG-CDJ has been traced to its retention within the endoplasmic reticulum. Furthermore, the increased amount of GRP78 mRNA in cells transfected with TBG-PDJ suggests that association of
