Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


the case of TBG-CDJ has been traced to its retention within the endoplasmic reticulum. Furthermore, the increased amount of GRP78 mRNA in cells transfected with TBG-PDJ suggests that association of this TBG variant with the GRP78 molecular chaperon is responsible for its impaired secretion ( 51 ). The variant TBG-AL is unique and important as it provides information about the function of the signal peptide. The resulting variable decrease in the serum TBG concentration associated with diminished in vitro secretion is compatible with impaired cotranslational processing ( 36 ). Several speculations regarding the properties of variant TBGs have been confirmed based on the elucidation of the TBG structure by X-ray crystallography ( 75 ). The reduced ligand-binding of TBG-SD ( 38 , 39 ) can be explained by the direct proximity of the amino acid substitution to the binding pocket. Indeed, the methyl group of the side chain of Thr 23 , replacing the normal Ser, will sterically hinder the binding of T 4 . Similarly, in TBG-A, the replacement of Ala 191 by Thr ( 47 ) perturbs the H-bounds that stabilizes the binding pocket, leading to the reduced T 4 binding. In contrast, the loss of His 331 in TBG-Q (H331Y) ( 44 , 49 ) allows unrestricted loop insertion in the upper half of the A-sheet, accounting for the increased in serum denatured (dn)TBG and reduced T 4 binding. TBG deficiency was found to coexist in the same family with resistance to thyroid hormone beta (RTHß) ( 76 ). Both TBG (P50fs51X) and THRB (P453A) gene mutations have been previously described in unrelated families ( 16 , 77 ) but not in the same family. The mother harbored both gene mutations, whereas the proband and his sister had only the THRB gene mutation and a brother only the TBG gene mutation. This family illustrates the difficulty that might be encountered in the interpretation of thyroid function tests when different genetic defects, having opposite effect on thyroid function tests, coexist in the same family, and especially the same individual. TRANSTHYRETIN (TTR) DEFECTS Sequencing of the TTR gene, formerly known as thyroxine-binding prealbumin (TBPA) on chromosome 18 (18q11.2-q12.1), has uncovered mutations that produce variant TTR molecules with or without alterations in the binding affinity for iodothyronines ( 2 , 78 ). Only those known to affect iodothyronine binding are listed in table 2 . Some of the TTR variants
