Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


2 associated PHA; BsoFI -ve and Fnu 4H +ve for Thr 109 ; BsoFI -ve for Val 109 and Nco I +ve for Met 119 , all in exon 4. A family with elevated total T 4 concentration which was predominantly bound to TTR was first described in 1982 by Moses et al ( 92 ). The inheritance was autosomal dominant and affected members were clinically euthyroid with normal free T 4 levels measured by equilibrium dialysis. The variant TTR has a single nucleotide substitution replacing the normal Ala 109 with a Thr which increases its affinity for T 4 , rT 3 and tetraiodothyroacetic acid and to a lesser extend T 3 and triiodothyroacetic acid ( 84 , 86 ). Crystallographic analysis of this variant TTR revealed an alteration in the size of the T 4 -binding pocket ( 93 ). Another TTR gene mutation involving the same codon has been subsequently described ( 85 ). This mutant TTR with Val 109 has an increased affinity for T 4 that is of similar magnitude as TTR Thr 109 , about 10-fold higher than that of wild-type TTR. A more common defect found in subjects with prealbumin associated hyperthyroxinemia (PAH) is a point mutation in exon 4 of the TTR gene replacing the normal Thr 119 with Met ( 90 ). First described in a single individual with normal serum total and free T 4 levels ( 89 ), the majority of subsequently identified heterozygous subjects harboring the TTR Met 119 had an increase in the fraction of T 4 and rT 3 associated with TTR, but only few had serum T 4 levels above the upper limit of normal. Furthermore, their hyperthyroxinemia appears to be transient, usually in association with non-thyroidal illness ( 90 ). The variant TTRs associated with PAH are not amyloidogenic. The unique occurrence in an Argentinian family of TTR A109T, known to have increased affinity for T 4 , in association with TGB-PD A64D mitigated the phenotype of the latter mutation ( 42 ) Variant TTRs without Known Biological Effects Several TTR variants have been found that do not alter the properties of the molecule, nor cause FAP, and are thus of no clinical significance. Of interest is a TTR variant found in the rhesus monkey, Macaca mulatta, but not in man ( 94 , 95 )[. This variant has a slower electrophoretic mobility resulting
