Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


Of interest is a TTR variant found in the rhesus monkey, Macaca mulatta, but not in man ( 94 , 95 )[. This variant has a slower electrophoretic mobility resulting in three phenotypes which exhibit: (a) a single rapidly migrating band similar to that found in human and other primates (PA FF ); (b) a single slowly migrating band cathodal to albumin (PA SS ); and (c) a five banded form corresponding to the various tetrameric recombinants present in the heterozygous state possessing the two different subunits (PA FS ). This finding was important because the variant rhesus PA-S could be hybridized in vitro with human TTR yielding a five-banded pattern hence, demonstrating that human TTR is also a tetramer. All naturally occurring and hybrid polymorphic variants show no detectable alteration in the binding of either T 4 or retinol binding protein ( 96 ). HUMAN SERUM ALBUMIN (HSA) DEFECTS Another form of dominantly inherited euthyroid hyperthyroxinemia, later to be linked to the albumin gene on chromosome 4 (4q11-q13), was first described in 1979 ( 97 , 98 ). Known as familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH) ( 99 ), it is the most common cause of inherited increase in total T 4 in serum in the Caucasian population, producing on the average a 2-fold increase in the serum total T 4 concentration. In a study of 430 subjects suspected of having euthyroid hyperthyroxinemia 12% were proven to have FDH ( 90 ). The prevalence varies from 0.01 to 1.8%, depending on the ethnic origin, with the highest prevalence in Hispanics ( 100 - 103 ). This form of FDH has not been reported in subjects of African origin and the isolated occurrence in a Chinese ( 104 ) was possibly brought by Hispanic travelers (see below). The euthyroid status of subjects with FDH has been confirmed by normal TSH response to TRH, normal free T 4 concentration measured by equilibrium dialysis using appropriate buffer systems, normal T 4 production rate and normal serum sex hormone-binding globulin concentration ( 97 , 99 , 105 , 106 ). Nevertheless, the falsely elevated free T 4 values, when estimated by standard clinical laboratory techniques, has often resulted in inappropriate thyroid gland ablative or drug therapy ( 107 - 109 ). A recent survey of commonly used commercial tests for measurement of free T 4 indicates that equilibrium or symmetric dialysis are the only tests
