Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


type HSA only ( 10 ). Figure 5. A Swiss family with HSA R218P: genotyping, pedigree and thyroid function tests. A, Genotyping for the mutation HSA R218P. Results are aligned with each subject depicted on the pedigree in B. Amplification of a segment of the HSA gene containing the mutation with a mismatched oligonucleotide primer creates a new restriction site for Ava II only in the presence of the mutant nucleotide (CGC -> CCC). Affected subjects expressing proline 218 (CCC) show a 122 bp DNA fragment produced by enzymatic digestion of the mutant allele. Note that all affected subjects are heterozygous and that the 153 bp fragment amplified from DNA of the two normal subjects, expressing arginine 218 (CGC) only, resists enzymatic digestion. B, Pedigree of the family. Roman numerals indicate each generation and numbers below each symbol identify the subject. Individuals expressing the FDH phenotype are indicated by half-filled symbols. C, Thyroid function tests. Results are aligned with each symbol. Values outside the normal range are in bold numbers. Note the disproportionate increase in serum T 4 concentration as compared to that of T 3 in the affected individuals. Subject I-1, a year old man, had diabetes mellitus with multiple organ complications and mild subclinical hypothyroidism, explaining the relatively lower serum T 4 and T 3 but not rT 3 levels. [Adapted from Pannain et al ( 10 )]. More recently two additional HSA gene mutations have been identified. One in the same codon resulting in a different amino acid substitution (R218S) ( 11 ) and another in a different amino acid (R222I) ( 115 ) in the proximity of the same iodothyronine-binding pocket ( Fig. 6 ). While both manifest increased affinity for T 4 and rT 3 , it is considerably higher for T 4 in the former and for rT 3 in the latter ( Table 3 ). It is of note that the two amino acids, 218 and 222, involved in the gain-of-function mutations are located in the main predominantly hydrophobic pocket where T 4 is bound in a cisoid conformation ( 120 ). Figure 6. The structures of HSA in the presence of T 4 as modeled on the structures 1BM0, 1HK1, 1HK3 in the Protein Data Bank ( http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/home/home.do ). Top panel shows on the left the entire WT HSA molecule (in green) with its four T 4 binding sites [T 4 (
