Defects of Thyroid Hormone Transport in Serum
KEYWORDS: tbg, pubmed, serum, thyroxine-binding, gene, deficiency, globulin, clin, thyroxine-binding globulin, endocrinol, normal, variant, thyroid, free, refetoff


the Protein Data Bank ( http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/home/home.do ). Top panel shows on the left the entire WT HSA molecule (in green) with its four T 4 binding sites [T 4 ( 1 ) to T 4 ( 4 )] according to Petitpas et al ( 120 ) and to the right a close up of the binding pocket, T 4 ( 1 ) containing arginine’s 218 and 222 along with the T 4 molecule (carbons are in white, nitrogen’s in blue, oxygens in red and iodine in magenta). In the bottom panel are represented the structures of the T 4 ( 1 ) binding pockets of the four mutant HSA showing, a better accommodation of T 4 than in the WT HSA and thus, resulting in enhanced binding (From Erik Schoenmakers, University of Cambridge, UK). A fifth gain-of-function mutation, a replacement of the normal Leu 66 with a Pro (L66P) has been identified in a single Thai family ( 3 ). It produces a 40-fold increase in the affinity for T 3 but only 1.5-fold increase in the affinity for T 4 ( Table 3 ). As a consequence, patients have hypertriiodothyroninemia but not hyperthyroxinemia. In this FDH-T 3 , serum T 3 concentrations are falsely low, or even undetectable, when T 3 is measured using an analog of T 3 as a tracer rather than a radioisotope. It has resulted in the inappropriate treatment with thyroid hormone ( 3 ). Bisalbuminemia and Analbuminemia Variant albumins, with altered electrophoretic mobility produce "bisalbuminemia" in the heterozygotes ( 121 ). T 4 binding has been studied in subjects from unrelated families with a slow HSA variant. In two studies only the slow moving HSA bound T 4 ( 122 , 123 ) and in another, both ( 124 ). The differential binding of T 4 to one of the components of bisalbumin may be due to enhanced binding to the variant component with charged amino acid sequence. Bisalbuminemia does not seem to be associated with gross alterations in thyroid hormone concentration in serum. Analbuminemia is extremely rare, occurring in less than 1 in a million individuals ( 125 ). The first case was reported in 1954 ( 126 ) but the HSA gene mutation was identified 56 years later ( 127 ). The less than 50 cases so far reported have nonsense mutations causing premature termination of translation or splicing defects ( 128
