Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


ABSTRACT Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma (FIPA) is a term used to identify a genetic condition with pituitary tumors without other endocrine or other associated abnormalities. FIPA families contribute around 2% to the overall incidence of pituitary tumors. FIPA is a heterogeneous disease both in terms of the clinical phenotype as well as from the genetic background point of view. Some FIPA families have been identified to have germline mutations in the aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein (AIP) gene leading to incomplete penetrance of young-onset, mostly growth hormone, mixed growth hormone/prolactin-secreting, or prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas. Due to the low penetrance, almost half of the AIP mutation-positive patients do not have a positive family history. Duplication of the orphan G protein coupled receptor GPR101 gene, located on Xq26.3, leads to high penetrance pituitary hyperplasia or adenoma resulting in infant-onset GH excess, usually with concomitant hyperprolactinemia, named X-linked acrogigantism (XLAG). The majority of the FIPA families, however, have no known genetic mutation. Their clinical picture includes various types of pituitary adenomas, either homogeneous (all affected family members have the same adenoma type) or heterogeneous (different adenoma types within the same family), presenting with low penetrance and an age of onset not significantly different from patients with sporadic pituitary adenomas. Here we review the clinical features, genetics and screening aspects of FIPA. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma (FIPA) is a relatively new term. Introduced by Professor Beckers in 1999, FIPA describes families with pituitary adenoma and no other associated symptoms ( 1 , 2 ). As opposed to occurring in isolation, familial pituitary adenomas have been recognized in several syndromic diseases, such as the classical MEN1 syndrome or Carney complex or the most recently described, such as hereditary paraganglioma syndromes ( 3 - 5 ), MEN4, and DICER1 syndrome ( 6 ) ( Figure 1 ). For additional information we refer the reader to other chapters within ENDOTEXT on syndromic familial pituitary adenomas. Figure 1. Germline or Mosaic Mutations Causing Pituitary Tumors. Details for the syndromic forms can be found, among others, in the following sections https://www.endotext.org/chapter/multiple-endocrine-neoplasia-type-i/ , https://www.endotext.org/chapter/carney-complex/ , https://www.endotext.org/chapter/pituitary-adenomas-in-childhood/ and in these references ( 6 - 10 ). Descriptions of familial pituitary adenoma families have been around for several hundreds of years, but only over the last decade has the clinical phenotype and, in some
