Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


- 10 ). Descriptions of familial pituitary adenoma families have been around for several hundreds of years, but only over the last decade has the clinical phenotype and, in some cases, the genetic abnormality been described. Interestingly, some of the patients with germline mutations present as simplex patients without any known family history, either due to low penetrance or due to de novo mutations. Figure 2. Family Trees Demonstrating Examples of the Various Types of FIPA Families. In some AIP mutation-negative FIPA families unaffected obligate carriers can be identified by their position in the family tree, while in other family’s possible carriers of the unidentified gene cannot be identified. AIP mutation-positive kindreds can be ‘families’ or simplex cases. Most XLAG kindreds are simplex cases with females having de novo germline mutations while males have somatic mosaic mutations. Previous data suggest that FIPA families contribute around 2% of the overall incidence of pituitary tumors, but this number may increase with increasing recognition of this clinical entity. Around 10-20% of all FIPA families and 50% of familial isolated GH-producing Tumor families ( 11 , 12 ) have been identified to have mutations within the aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein ( AIP ) gene, located at 11q13. Germline mutations in AIP have also been identified in patients with young-onset pituitary adenomas, mostly GH-secreting or prolactin-secreting or silent GH/prolactin-producing adenomas with no apparent family history. These are called ‘simplex’ cases. Until recently, no somatic mutations had been described in the AIP gene in pituitary or other tumors ( 1 ). Duplication of the orphan G protein-coupled receptor GPR101 causes X-linked acrogigantism (XLAG) ( 13 ). While most of the XLAG cases are due to de novo mutations (germline or somatic mosaicism ( 14 , 15 )), to date three families have also been described. The causative gene for the rest and therefore the vast majority (90% only considering kindreds with 2 or more affected subjects) of FIPA families is currently unknown ( 16 ). Recently, a microdeletion upstream the GHRH gene, on chromosome 20, has been identified as another possible cause of severe infant-onset gigantism ( 17 ). New candidate genes are under active investigation in somatic and familial cases of pituitary adenomas ( 18 ), but some need further validation. Representative examples of FIPA family trees are shown in Figure 2 . CLINICAL FEATURES OF FIPA Families with AIP mutations usually have a
