Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


18 ), but some need further validation. Representative examples of FIPA family trees are shown in Figure 2 . CLINICAL FEATURES OF FIPA Families with AIP mutations usually have a characteristic phenotype, which is usually substantially different from that of AIP mutation-negative phenotype. In this section, we compare characteristics of AIP -mutated and non- AIP -mutated FIPA. Germline chromosomal defects leading to gigantism, including XLAG and a recently described microdeletion in chromosome 20 that leads to GHRH overexpression, have a drastically different phenotype and are discussed separately below. Tumor Types FIPA families can be homologous (i.e. all affected family members have the same type of tumor) or heterologous (i.e. family members can have different type of tumor) ( Figure 2 ). Therefore, pure acromegaly, pure prolactinoma, and pure non-functioning pituitary adenoma (NFPA) families have been identified, while also mixed families such as acromegaly-prolactinoma, acromegaly-NFPA, prolactinoma-NFPA, prolactin-corticotrophinoma or even acromegaly-prolactinoma-NFPA families have been described. Somato-mammotrophinomas occur commonly, but are not consistently reported, probably as a result of variations in the reporting of tumor histology type. Figure 3a, b and c demonstrate the distribution of histological tumor types in FIPA families. Figure 3a. Proportion of histological tumor types in the AIP positive FIPA population in the International FIPA Consortium cohort (n=911) ( 19 ). Figure 3b. Proportion of tumor types in AIP mutation-positive FIPA families ( 12 ). Figure 3c. Proportion of tumor types in AIP mutation-negative FIPA families ( 12 ). In a study including familial as well as simplex (apparently sporadic) patients with germline AIP mutations, 78% of 96 patients developed GH-secreting adenomas ( 20 ) (half of the GH-secreting adenomas were somato-mammotrophinomas), 13.5% of patients developed prolactinomas, 7% developed non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs), and 1 patient developed a TSH-secreting adenoma. In another study, comprising 171 patients carrying AIP mutations, based on clinical diagnosis 70% had somatotrophinomas, 11% mixed GH/PRLomas, 12% had prolactinomas, and 8% had clinically non-functioning tumors ( 12 ). On histological testing some tumors show plurihormonal profile ( Figure 3b ). It is important to note that some non-functioning tumors are found to be somatotroph/lactotroph upon histological examination ( 21 ) – these are therefore ‘silent adenomas’. The distribution of tumors amongst 318 non- AIP mutated FIPA families (1310 patients) is represented in Figure 3c ( 12 ). Somatotrophinomas are the most common tumor type in both AIP mutation-positive and negative FIPA families ( 12 , 19
