Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


affected patient with gigantism or disease onset before the age of 18 years, while only 3 out of 46 AIP mutation-negative families have an onset of pituitary adenoma before the age of 18 years ( 23 ). Interestingly, probably due to earlier recognition of symptoms in affected FIPA families, the age of tumor onset appeared to be earlier in the second generation than in the first (mean age 29 ±10.2 years vs. 50.5± 14.2 years p<0.0001) ( 24 ). Disease Penetrance Disease penetrance in FIPA is incomplete. As there is a clear natural bias of affected patient referral and the clinical and genetic data in the individual families are incomplete, the calculation of disease penetrance is difficult. Additionally, it is important that penetrance always be considered in the context of the subject’s age. In AIP positive mutation families, current data suggests 12.5-30% penetrance, but ranges between 10-90%, also depending on available data ( 19 , 20 , 23 ). It seems that the nature of the AIP mutation (truncating or non-truncating) does not have any effect on penetrance ( 19 ). In AIP mutation-negative families, penetrance calculations are even more difficult as carrier unaffected family members (other than obligate carriers) cannot be distinguished from non-carrier unaffected subjects. The current calculation based on affected subjects, obligate carriers and 50% of potential carriers suggest 38±16% ( 23 ), but this is obviously a very significant overestimate. Another way to compare penetrance between AIP positive and negative families is to count the known affected subjects within families. Penetrance in AIP mutation-negative families is probably lower than in AIP mutation-positive families, as the mean number of patients with disease in AIP mutation-positive families is 3.2±1.8 and in AIP mutation-negative families 2.2±0.5, P<0.001 ( 23 ). De novo AIP mutation has been described in two cases so far: in a child with prolactinoma (c.721A>T; p.Lys241*) where the AIP mutation was not found in the parents (paternity confirmed) or his sister ( 19 , 25 ). A second case was with identical twin girls, where both of them carry a mutation in the leukocyte derived DNA (p.R304*), while their parents (paternity confirmed) were negative ( 26 ). Phenocopies (patients who show manifestations of a disease that are usually associated with mutations of a particular gene but instead are, in this case, due to another etiology) ( 27 ) have been described in families with AIP mutations
