Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


tumors having an apoplexy rate of 10.6% vs 2.3% in mutation-negative families ( 19 ). The latest data from the international FIPA consortium has shown similar rates of apoplexy (8.2% vs 3.6% respectively, p=0.009) ( 12 ). Familial apoplexy has also been described in AIP mutation-positive families ( 19 , 31 ). It was previously observed that GH-secreting tumors with AIP mutations were significantly more likely than their mutation-negative counterparts to undergo apoplexy ( 19 ) and this has been demonstrated once again (8.3% vs 2.8% p=0.005) ( 12 ). The mechanism for this observation is unclear. Treatment Resistance Many of the somatotrophinomas described in FIPA families have been described as sparsely granulated adenomas ( 1 ), a subtype which has been previously suggested to respond less well to somatostatin analogues and to be more aggressive ( 32 , 33 ). Sparsely granulated adenomas occur more commonly in AIP mutation-positive GH-secreting adenomas than in their mutation-negative GH secreting counterparts ( 19 ). In one study ( 12 ), all of the AIP mutation-positive somatotrophinomas were sparsely granulated, compared to 68% in the AIP mutation-negative group (p<0.001). There is speculation that somatostatin analogues mediate their anti-proliferative effects through AIP up-regulation, which in turn increases the expression of ZAC1 , a tumor suppressor gene known to be upregulated by somatostatin analogues ( 34 , 35 ), therefore, dysfunction at the AIP step would reduce the expression of ZAC1 and so the usefulness of this class of drug ( 36 ). Another potential mechanism for this treatment resistance involving defective Gαi signaling has been postulated and is discussed in detail below. It has previously been observed that AIP mutation-positive tumors are more difficult to treat − mutation-positive somatotrophinomas undergo less shrinkage and there is a smaller reduction in GH production with first generation somatostatin analogues than in the mutation-negative sporadic patients ( 1 , 20 , 28 , 37 ). This may be accounted for by a relative paucity of expression of SSTR2 in the former ( 38 ); however, in human samples rather, a higher level of SSTR2 was found ( 36 ), and this is also seen in a pituitary Aip -knockout mouse model ( 39 , 40 ). A greater need for re-operation after initial surgery and a greater use of multiple therapies and >2 types of therapy, including radiotherapy ( 12 ) and the failure of pegvisomant to control
