Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


need for re-operation after initial surgery and a greater use of multiple therapies and >2 types of therapy, including radiotherapy ( 12 ) and the failure of pegvisomant to control IGF-1 ( 20 ) have also been described. However, some studies ( 19 ) failed to demonstrate any difference in the number of therapeutic interventions between AIP positive and negative mutation tumors. Where primary surgery has failed to control the tumor’s GH production, there is some evidence that pegvisomant ( 37 , 41 ), or pasireotide in patients whose tumor expresses the type 5 somatostatin receptor ( 38 , 42 ), may reduce the IGF-1 burden. In some cases, drastic treatment is necessary: for example, in the youngest known case, who presented at the age of 4 years-old, surgery followed by first generation somatostatin analogue, temozolomide, bevacizumab, radiotherapy, pegvisomant, gamma knife therapy and somatostatin analogue combined with increasing dose of pegvisomant, was necessary ( 43 ). No correlation was observed between the presence of truncating and non-truncating AIP mutation tumors and the number of treatment modalities required by these patients ( 19 ). In addition to sparsely granulated histopathology, other well-known predictive factors of resistance to first generation somatostatin analogues are younger age at diagnosis, hyperintense T2 image on MRI, and low tumor expression of somatostatin receptor subtype 2 ( 44 ). Recently, a machine-learning based model accounting for age at diagnosis, sex, pretreatment GH and IGF-1 levels, tumor granulation pattern and expression of somatostatin receptor subtypes 2 and 5 was shown to predict therapeutic response to first generation somatostatin analogues with high negative and positive predictive values ( 45 ). Currently, some experts already suggest that the first-line medical treatment for patients that show one or more of these features could be pegvisomant or pasireotide; and that pegvisomant could be preferred in patients with diabetes or low somatostatin receptor subtype 5, whilst pasireotide could be preferred in the presence of significant tumor volume ( 44 ). Therefore, in select cases, these two drugs could be considered early in postsurgical medical therapy in patients with persistent disease, especially in younger patients with ongoing uncontrolled height gain, as seen in patients with AIP mutations. Hormone Secretion When matched with acromegaly mutation-negative controls, AIP mutation-positive somatotrophinomas produce more growth hormone (GH) ( 20 ) but there was no difference in the levels of IGF-1 ( 12 , 20 ). Prolactin co-secretion was
