Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


controls, AIP mutation-positive somatotrophinomas produce more growth hormone (GH) ( 20 ) but there was no difference in the levels of IGF-1 ( 12 , 20 ). Prolactin co-secretion was more common in AIP mutation-positive GH secreting tumors than their non- AIP mutated counterparts ( 19 ). Gigantism was observed to be more common among AIP mutation-positive patients (55.9% vs 18.2%, p=0.005) and was the most common clinical diagnosis ( 12 ) – which is predicted by their earlier onset of disease, with cases in males predominating in both AIP positive and negative patients ( 19 ): 60% of FIPA families in one study had at least one case of gigantism and instances of two cases of gigantism within the same family only occurred in AIP mutation-positive families ( 19 ). No correlation was observed between the presence of truncating and non-truncating AIP mutations and the incidence of GH secreting tumors ( 19 ); however, there was a significantly greater prevalence of gigantism amongst the GH secreting tumor patients in those with truncating as opposed to non-truncating AIP mutations (54.7% vs 30%). There is also a suggestion that patients with GH-secreting adenomas and the truncating R304* mutation present more commonly at a very young age then rest of the described AIP mutation-positive population with GH secreting adenomas. A previous case report described the co-existence of pituitary hyperplasia and pituitary adenoma in two AIP mutation-positive adenomas from a family. Loss of heterozygosity was seen in the adenoma tissue but not in the surrounding hyperplastic tissue and loss of AIP protein expression was seen in the adenoma tissue with preservation of AIP expression in the hyperplastic tissue ( 46 ). Villa and colleagues hypothesize that this may demonstrate that tumorigenesis is a multi-stage event starting with hyperplasia in haploinsufficient tissue and then the development of further genetic events (including loss of the one remaining wild-type AIP allele) leading to true adenoma formation. They suggest that this could explain the incomplete penetrance seen in pituitary disease in AIP mutation-positive subjects ( 46 ). In GH-secreting non- AIP mutated sporadic pituitary tumors, an association was noted between the levels of AIP staining on histology and the aggressiveness of the adenoma. Low levels of AIP staining were associated with a more aggressive phenotype (higher Ki-67 index and a greater likelihood of suprasellar tumor extension) when compared to tumors with higher levels of AIP staining. In
