Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


staining were associated with a more aggressive phenotype (higher Ki-67 index and a greater likelihood of suprasellar tumor extension) when compared to tumors with higher levels of AIP staining. In the same tumors, none of those with low AIP staining showed significant shrinkage despite pre-operative treatment with a somatostatin analogue. Tumors treated pre-operatively with somatostatin analogues that did shrink showed a higher level of AIP on immunohistochemistry ( 47 ). No difference in rates of hypopituitarism was seen between AIP mutation-positive and negative patients with pituitary adenomas at diagnosis ( 12 ). Other Tumors in Individuals with an AIP Mutation In one study ( 19 ) involving 290 AIP mutation-positive individuals (some with pituitary adenomas), there were 10 cases of tumors occurring outside of the pituitary gland in 9 individuals. These included a gastrointestinal stromal tumor, glioma, meningioma, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and spinal ependymoma. Parathyroid adenomas were excluded from this analysis due to the rare finding of AIP mutations in parathyroid adenomas ( 48 ), as were colonic polyps and thyroid nodules due to their frequent occurrence in patients with acromegaly ( 19 ). Four of the 9 individuals with extra-pituitary tumors had GH-secreting pituitary tumors, the other 5 were AIP mutation carriers without pituitary tumors. While AIP acts as a tumor suppressor gene in the pituitary gland, and patients with pituitary tumors show heterozygous loss-of-function mutations of AIP , a possible role for AIP as an oncogene has been described in other tumor types. To date, increased expression of AIP was found in association with increased tumorigenic and metastatic properties of colorectal cancer cells ( 49 ), with increased survival of primary diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells ( 50 ), and with a bad prognosis in cholangiocarcinoma ( 51 ). In colorectal cancer, increased AIP expression was associated with increased cell migration and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, possibly by the facilitation of N-cadherin expression and suppression of functional E-cadherin on the cell surface ( 49 ). On the other hand, for DLBCL, AIP promoted tumor survival by reducing ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation of BCL6, a protein that reduces the transcription of pro-apoptotic genes such as TP53 and that is frequently overexpressed in DLBCL ( 50 ). Therefore, AIP behaves as a double agent, either as a tumor suppressor or as an oncogene, and further studies on AIP regulation mechanisms will be essential for a better understanding of AIP derived tumorigenesis and
