Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


double agent, either as a tumor suppressor or as an oncogene, and further studies on AIP regulation mechanisms will be essential for a better understanding of AIP derived tumorigenesis and for unravelling new possible therapeutic targets ( 52 ). THE GENETICS OF FIPA The currently known genes causing FIPA are AIP and GPR101 and we will discuss the diseases associated with these genes in detail. Furthermore, there are some pituitary adenoma cases described with other germline mutations, that will be more briefly addressed, as they are still under investigation and require additional validation. AIP There are over 100 heterozygous mutations identified in AIP , showing an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern with incomplete penetrance ( 53 ). Mutations that affect the AIP gene commonly lead to truncated or missing protein due to nonsense mutations, small deletions or large deletions, insertions, splicing or promoter mutations, while 21% result in full length mutated protein due to missense mutations or in-frame deletions or insertions ( Figure 4 ). Large deletions cannot be identified with Sanger sequencing and other technologies, such as MLPA, or next generation sequencing methods are required to identify them. Figure 4. Distribution of mutation types found within the AIP gene in the International FIPA consortium ( 12 ). Figure 5. The three-dimensional structure of the AIP protein. Three characteristic tetratricopeptide (TPR) domains, the A and B helices of the first TPR domain, orange, TPR2 blue. TPR3 green and the 7 th C-terminal alpha helix with light blue ( 54 , 55 ). The AIP protein is a well-conserved molecular chaperone, with multiple binding partners. It has three tetratricopeptide (TPR) repeats, conserved anti-parallel pair of alpha helices and a final 7 th alpha helix at its carboxyl terminal end ( Figure 5 ). This C-terminal section is known to be important for interaction with other proteins and therefore, it is postulated, that in the case of FIPA it loses its ability to bind its binding partners, such as the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) or phosphodiesterase (PDE) subtype 4A5, and therefore loses its activity as a tumor suppressor ( 56 ). There are a few mutational hotspots, the majority affecting CpG sites, where a mutation has been identified in several independent patients or families ( Table 1 ). Table 1. A Few Examples of AIP Mutation ‘Hotspots’ View in own window Variant References (examples) c.910C>T; p.R304* Cazabat et al. 2007 ( 57 )
