Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


(s Aip KO) have also been created, using Cre/Lox and Flp/Frt technology ( 67 ). In keeping with the heterozygote AIP knockout mice described above, >80% of the s Aip KO mice developed GH secreting adenomas by 40 weeks of age, by 18 weeks they also displayed elevated IGF-1 and GH levels, increased body and organ size (compared to control animals) and glucose intolerance. Pituitary hyperplasia was consistently observed in the s Aip KO mice (on histology and on MRI imaging), suggesting (but not absolutely proving) a progression from hyperplasia to adenoma. The investigators point out that 40 weeks of age for a mouse represents ‘middle adulthood’ and so hypothesize that, in common with other tumors, additional somatic mutations are required on top of the AIP loss of function for somatotroph tumors to occur ( 67 ). A pituitary-specific Aip knockout using the Hesx1/Cre model has also developed gigantism with elevated IGF-1 levels ( 40 ). ARNT knockout mice die in utero in early gestation ( 68 , 69 ): the reasons for this are disputed, in one study it appeared that there was faulty angiogenesis in the yolk sac ( 69 ), whilst in another the embryos survived slightly longer and had a normally developed yolk sac vasculature but the placental vasculature failed to develop correctly. The embryos in the latter study also displayed a range or anomalies, including neural tube closure defects, brain hypoplasia and placental hemorrhage ( 68 ). It has been hypothesized, therefore, that ARNT plays a role in angiogenesis in response to hypoxia secondary to the increasing tissue mass in embryonic development ( 69 ). Ahr knockout mice are viable, though they too suffer physiologic dysfunction, including cardiac hypertrophy (with cardiac myocyte enlargement but without the molecular signatures that would indicate cardiac overload) and subsequent cardiomyopathy ( 70 ). These mice also have hypertension ( 71 ), reduced body weight, reduced reproductive capabilities, smaller livers as a result of a patent ductus venosus, persistence of fetal vascular and liver parenchymal structures and aberrant vasculature in the kidneys. This underlines the importance of AhR signaling mechanisms in the development of a normal, mature vasculature ( 72 ). AhR protein-protein interactions were further characterized, with one of the most interesting interactions being with the mitochondrial protein MRPL40 ( 73 ), which codes for a mitochondrial ribosomal 39S subunit. Deletions in this gene have been associated with the
