Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


the most interesting interactions being with the mitochondrial protein MRPL40 ( 73 ), which codes for a mitochondrial ribosomal 39S subunit. Deletions in this gene have been associated with the 22q11.2 deletion syndromes Velo-cardial facial syndrome and Di George syndrome (OMIM #188400), both of which involve congenital cardiac malformations, further suggesting the importance of AhR in normal cardiac development. It has been suggested that interplay between AhR and ARNT/HIF1α may govern normal vascular development ( 72 ). MECHANISM OF TUMORIGENESIS IN PITUITARY ADENOMAS WITH AIP MUTATIONS In the pituitary, AIP is a tumor suppressor, and truncating mutations presumably lead to loss of function mutations. However, for missense mutations change in protein folding or loss of partner protein binding sites could explain the lack of function. Based on data from half-life studies, ( 74 ) it seems that a significant proportion of the missense mutations lead to unstable proteins and rapid degradation explaining the loss of function. Furthermore, in vitro measured half-life of missense proteins correlated well with age of onset of disease. ( 74 ) AIP interacts with numerous other molecules (see Table 2 ), full details of each of these interactions has recently been summarized ( 56 ). Table 2. A List of Factors that Have Been Demonstrated to Interact with the AIP Protein ( 56 ) View in own window Viral Proteins Hepatitis B Virus X protein (HBV X) Epstein Barr Virus Nuclear Antigen 3 (EBNA3) AIP-AHR-Hsp90 Complex Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor (AHR) Heat Shock Protein 90 (Hsp90) Heat Shock Cognate 70 (Hsc70) Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Nuclear Translocator (ARNT) p23 AIP self-association Cytoskeletal Proteins Possible interaction with actin Tubulin ( 75 ) Phosphodiesterases PDE4A5 PDE2A3 Nuclear Receptors Estrogen Receptor α (ERα) Glucocorticoid Receptor (GR) Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor α (PPARα) Thyroid Hormone Receptor β1 (TRβ1) Transmembrane Receptors RET EGFR G Proteins Translocase of the Outer Membrane of Mitochondria (TOMM20) Proteins ( 64 ) Survivin ( 64 ) Cardiac Troponin Interacting Kinase 3 (TNNI3K) Protein Kinase A ( 76 ) The exact mechanism by which AIP mutations lead to pituitary tumor formation is unclear; however, several theories have been put forward. AHR is widely expressed in the body and binds numerous compounds, both endogenous and exogenous ( 77 , 78 ). It is a nuclear transcription factor and prior to ligand binding it is found in the cellular cytoplasm, bound to AIP ( 77 , 78 ). It is known that
