Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


It is a nuclear transcription factor and prior to ligand binding it is found in the cellular cytoplasm, bound to AIP ( 77 , 78 ). It is known that AHR is a receptor for environmental pollutants, such as dioxin – a known carcinogen. The binding of dioxin leads to increased AHR nuclear translocation, with activation of detoxification mechanisms ( 79 ), including increased expression of the enzyme CYP1A1, which has also been shown to bio-activate polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon carcinogens ( 80 , 81 ). Interestingly, an increase of acromegaly incidence ( 82 ) has been described in a heavily polluted industrial area. Pituitary adenoma incidence was also studied in an area heavily polluted with dioxin after a chemical factory accident, but data were not sufficient to draw appropriate conclusions ( 83 ). A recent follow-up study ( 84 ) examined links between the characteristics of patients with GH-secreting pituitary adenomas, residing in an area of high pollution and AHR/AIP variants. It was found that pituitary tumors were significantly larger and IGF-1 burden significantly greater in patients with AHR/AIP gene variants who lived in polluted areas compared to either those who had no gene variants and lived in the same highly polluted areas or those who had gene variants but lived in cleaner areas. Further, the use of somatostatin analogues in patients with GH-secreting pituitary adenomas, who also had AHR / AIP gene variants and lived in highly polluted areas, seemed to be less effective (IGF-1 only normalized in 14%). Overall, the reduction in GH/IGF-1 levels did not reach statistical significance. GH secreting pituitary patients with no AHR/AIP variants had a statistically significant reduction in GH/IGF-1, as did those without gene variants living in polluted areas (IGF-1 normalized in 54-56% of cases). These data need confirmation. Fibroblasts with heterozygous AIP mutations taken from patients have lower AIP protein levels (probably through nonsense-mediated decay of truncated proteins ( 74 )) compared to wild-type fibroblast controls, but AHR expression is unaffected. However, AIP mutation did result in altered regulation of the AHR transcriptional target CYP1B1, both with and without AHR ligand stimulation ( 85 ). The mechanism by which this happens and therefore the role of AHR in signaling in pituitary tumorigenesis is still to be elucidated. It has been noted that the loss of function of the AIP gene allows dysregulated ERα mediated gene transcription by its disinhibition ( 86 ).
