Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


is still to be elucidated. It has been noted that the loss of function of the AIP gene allows dysregulated ERα mediated gene transcription by its disinhibition ( 86 ). Cumulatively, high levels of estrogen and therefore estrogen mediated gene transcription products have been associated with an increased risk of developing various tumors, including pituitary tumors ( 86 , 87 ) and so this work provides a novel avenue for investigation into pituitary tumorigenesis. In the previous years, the role of cAMP elevation in pituitary tumors has been further investigated - It had previously been noted that cAMP levels were elevated in a subset of pituitary tumors ( 88 ). cAMP is a mitogenic factor in somatotroph cells, this therefore suggests a link between its dysregulation and tumor growth ( 89 , 90 ). AIP is known to be a binding partner of some of the phosphodiesterases. AIP binding to PDE4A appears to inhibit its phosphodiesterase activity; however, this did not appear to prevent the cell’s in vitro ability to reduce forskolin-induced cAMP driven transcription. Therefore, it was felt unlikely that AIP-phosphodiesterase was the mechanism for cAMP elevation in pituitary tumors ( 91 ). The same study also hypothesized that AIP’s interactions with other binding partners is vital in its role of reducing cAMP, as R304* mutant AIP transfected cells (which produces a truncated AIP protein, losing its protein-interacting C-terminal) were not able to reduce cAMP signaling in the same way that wild-type AIP transfected cells could ( 91 ). This correlated with reduced GH secretion after forskolin stimulation in the wild-type AIP cells, but not in the AIP mutant cells ( 91 ). Disordered cAMP regulation is also seen in McCune Albright syndrome – where there is a mutation of the GNAS1 gene which results in a constitutionally active Gα s and raised cAMP ( 92 ), and Carney complex ( 93 ) – where there is an inactivating mutation in the PRKAR1A gene, a subunit of Protein Kinase A (PKA), a cAMP dependent kinase ( 94 ).There is evidence that AIP interacts with some of the subfamily protein of Gα ( 95 ), providing a possible way through which AIP can influence intracellular cAMP levels. To investigate this further, Tuominen et al. ( 96 ) developed an immortalized fibroblast cell line from the embryos of an AIP knockout mouse. AIP knockout in the mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) cell
