Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


further, Tuominen et al. ( 96 ) developed an immortalized fibroblast cell line from the embryos of an AIP knockout mouse. AIP knockout in the mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) cell line resulted in higher cAMP level with a 2-3 times increase the AIP knockout cells. This result was concordant with AIP knockdown in a rat pituitary tumor cell line, with an observed 20-30% rise in cAMP levels. Figure 6. Role of G alpha Inhibitory Protein. (A) - cells with normally functioning G alpha inhibitory protein (G ai-2 ) respond to stimulation of the somatostatin receptor (SSTR) by somatostatin (SST) by inhibiting the action of adenylyl cyclase, reducing the cell's secretory and proliferative capabilities. The role of AIP in this process is unknown, but cells with defective/absent AIP (B) also have a reduction in G ai-2 and so a lack of response from SST binding to SSTR with resulting disinhibition of adenylyl cyclase and increased GH secretion and cell proliferation. Sequential knockdown of the Ga subfamily of proteins (G a12 , G a13 , G a11 , G aq , G a14 , G a15 , and G as ,) produced only a significant reduction in cAMP levels in AIP knockout mouse cells when G as and G a13 were knocked down, although this effect was not sufficient to explain the observed difference in cAMP levels between AIP knockout and wild-type cells ( 96 ). Sequential knockdowns of the G a inhibitory subfamilies (G ai-1 , G ai-2 , and G ai-3 ) was also performed. G ai-2 and G ai-3 knockdown caused a rise in cAMP levels by 77% and 115% respectively in wild-type MEFs, but minimal changes in the cAMP levels in AIP knockout cells. This was interpreted as evidence of a pre-existing defect in the G ai system of the AIP knockout cells ( 96 ) ( Figure 6 ). Immunohistochemical staining was subsequently performed on human somatotrophinomas which showed a reduction in the G ai-2 expression in AIP mutation-positive tumors compared to mutation-negative tumors ( 96 , 97 ). No difference was observed in the expression of G ai-3 between the two types of tumors ( 96 ). These findings may also explain the observed phenomenon whereby AIP mutation-positive tumors appear to respond poorly to somatostatin analogue treatment, as somatostatin receptors mediate reduction in cAMP levels through the G ai system ( 98 ), particularly through G
