Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


AIP mutation-positive tumors appear to respond poorly to somatostatin analogue treatment, as somatostatin receptors mediate reduction in cAMP levels through the G ai system ( 98 ), particularly through G ai-2 and therefore defective G ai signaling in AIP mutation-positive tumors maybe abrogate the effect of these drugs ( 96 ). There is also in vitro evidence that AIP may play a role in reducing PKA activity through binding to its subunits (catalytic Cα and regulatory R1α). It was shown that AIP is able to interact with these two subunits, either as part of the PKA complex or separately. Cα stabilizes AIP and also R1α. Overexpression of AIP lowered PKA activity, perhaps through inhibition of Cα or through the stabilization of the inactivating Cα-R1α complex. AIP overexpression also led to lower levels of Cα in the nucleus. Conversely, AIP silencing led to an increase in PKA activity. AIP’s interaction with these subunits is partly mediated by its c-terminal and so this may explain why common AIP truncation mutations (such as R304*), which affect this region, have a shorter protein half-life. It is hypothesized that this would then lead to lower intracellular AIP levels and may contribute to tumorigenesis through increased PKA activity ( 76 ). The most recent and plausible mechanism relates to an interaction between AIP and the tyrosine kinase receptor RET. Although the first report on this interaction was over a decade ago ( 59 ), only recently there has been new insight about how this interaction affects tumorigenesis in the pituitary gland ( 99 ). RET is a dependent receptor in somatotroph cells: in the absence of its ligand GDNF, the monomeric RET receptor is processed intracellularly by caspase-3, leading to PIT1 accumulation and upregulation of the RET/PIT1/ARF/p53-apoptotic pathway ( 99 ). AIP was shown to be a key factor in the initial steps of this pathway, by forming a complex with RET/caspase-3/PKCδ, that allows for the intracellular processing of RET. In the absence of AIP or in the presence of pathological mutations in AIP, there is an inhibition of RET-induced apoptosis, that may be a key feature in somatotroph hyperplasia and adenoma formation ( 99 ). However, PIT1 is a transcription factor that is present in somatotroph, lactotroph and thyrotroph cells; therefore, despite previous studies focusing mostly in somatotroph tumors, the same pathway is probably involved in other tumor types, such as prolactinomas ( 99 ),
