Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


somatotroph, lactotroph and thyrotroph cells; therefore, despite previous studies focusing mostly in somatotroph tumors, the same pathway is probably involved in other tumor types, such as prolactinomas ( 99 ), and this seems to be the explanation for the tissue specificity of AIP mutations. In line with this finding, the reported pituitary tumors in patients with AIP mutations are mostly GH and/or prolactin secreting tumors, but also clinically non-functioning adenomas with positive GH and/or prolactin immunostaining and, in one case, thyrotropinoma ( 12 , 20 , 100 ). There have been no unequivocal cases of corticotrophinomas or gonadotroph adenomas in patients with pathological AIP mutations. This extraordinary finding may pave the way for new therapeutic options in sporadic and familial cases of pituitary tumors with AIP mutations. The increased tendency of AIP mutation-positive tumors to invade locally may be a result of an altered tumor microenvironment. One study ( 40 ) observed markedly more infiltration of tumors by macrophages in human AIP mutation-positive adenomas compared to sporadic somatotroph tumors. There was also an upregulation in the tumor-derived cytokine, CCL5, which is chemotactic for leukocytes. The macrophages themselves may play an important role in breaching local structures with their secretion of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2 & 9) ( 101 ). Gene expression profiling experiments comparing AIP mutation-positive human pituitary adenomas to sporadic human pituitary adenomas showed a partial epithelial to mesenchymal transition pattern in keeping with a tumor that invades locally but exceedingly rarely metastasizes ( 40 ). In recent years, intensive research on pituitary tumor microenvironment has expanded our knowledge on pituitary tumor behavior and tumorigenesis mechanisms and raised the possibility for immunotherapy in aggressive and refractory pituitary tumors ( 102 ). In contrast, few studies have focused on the mechanisms of AIP regulation. miR-34, a microRNA that binds to the 3-UTR region of AIP, was shown to be overexpressed and to downregulate AIP at the protein level in sporadic somatotrophinomas with low AIP expression ( 103 ) and in somatotrophinomas due to germline AIP mutations ( 104 ). Additionally, the high expression of miR-34 is one of the mechanisms driving the increased intracellular cAMP levels seen in AIP mutation-positive tumors ( 104 ). Thus, overexpression of miR-34 promotes cell proliferation and migration and may be responsible for the invasive phenotype and typical resistance to first generation somatostatin analogues seen in these tumors ( 103 , 104 ). Recently, a regulation
