Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


and migration and may be responsible for the invasive phenotype and typical resistance to first generation somatostatin analogues seen in these tumors ( 103 , 104 ). Recently, a regulation of AIP at the transcription level was also proposed. GTF2B, a transcription factor that binds the 5-UTR region of AIP, was shown to promote AIP expression and inhibit somatotroph cell proliferation and invasion ( 105 ). AIP Mutations and Associations with Other Tumors Germline AIP variants (R304Q, this variant is controversial, likely to be benign) were noted in sporadic parathyroid adenomas in 2 (unrelated) out of 136 patients in one study. One of these patients had a co-existent MEN1 mutation; both had reduced AIP staining in their tumors at histology ( 48 ). Concomitant AIP and MEN1 deletions through chromosomal translocations with a variety of partners are also associated with hibernomas (benign brown fat tumors). AIP transcription is down-regulated in these tumors ( 106 ) and its loss results in the upregulation of the brown fat marker UCP1 ( 107 ). Two patients from different FIPA kindreds, carriers of germline pathogenic mutations in AIP (Leu115Trpfs*41 and p.Q285*) with unaffected pituitary, were described to have follicular thyroid carcinomas showing loss of heterozygosity in the AIP locus in the tumor tissue ( 42 , 108 ), raising the possibility for a role of AIP mutation as an initiating event in both pituitary and thyroid. However, differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) is rare in acromegaly, and the most frequent tumor mutations found in patients with known pathogenic AIP mutations are very similar to the ones found in sporadic cases, mostly comprising mutations of BRAF and NRAS ( 108 ). Therefore, the potential role of AIP mutations as a possible rare initiating event on the pathogenesis of DTC, although unlikely, requires further investigation. OTHER POSSIBLE CANDIDATE GENES Currently, only two well-characterized genes have been implicated in the pathogenesis of FIPA: AIP, the most common one, and GPR101. However, they only account for a minority of patients with FIPA, while other genes remain largely unknown. At present, the genetics of familial and apparently sporadic pituitary tumors is under active investigation and some new candidate genes have been identified, but additional data is required to convincingly support them as a possible cause of FIPA. Recently, germline loss of function mutations in the peptidylglycine α-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) gene were described in one family with pituitary gigantism and in
