Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


them as a possible cause of FIPA. Recently, germline loss of function mutations in the peptidylglycine α-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) gene were described in one family with pituitary gigantism and in multiple sporadic cases of several types of pituitary adenomas ( 18 ). PAM plays an important role in post-translational processing and secretion of hormones and is highly expressed in all pituitary cells, but the mechanisms linking its altered function with hormone hypersecretion still require clarification. Also, the fact that some of the identified PAM variants were relatively common, and that no deleterious variants were identified in other familial cases from 17 FIPA kindreds in the validation cohort raises some reasonable doubts. Therefore, additional studies in FIPA kindreds are required to further explore and validate this new candidate gene. Another gene, described in sporadic corticotrophinomas, is CABLES1 . Heterozygous germline mutations in CABLES1 appear to decrease the negative feedback response from glucocorticoids, resulting in increased corticotroph cell growth. They were identified in two young adults, two children with Cushing’s Disease, and in one unaffected parent ( 109 ); but, to date, there have been no reports of possible familial cases with this mutation. Cushing disease is only rarely described in FIPA families, mostly in kindreds with heterogeneous tumor types ( 19 ). In homogenous corticotroph adenoma families no CABLES1 mutation has been identified (Korbonits unpublished observation). Corticotrophinomas have not been reported in kindreds with AIP mutation ( 19 ), and this is also in line with the recently described RET-derived AIP tissue specificity for PIT1 expressing cells ( 99 ). A gain of function mutation in PRLR has been described in association with sporadic and familial prolactinomas ( 110 ), but additional data is needed to convincingly reinforce that association. Other germline mutations have also been associated with familial pituitary tumors ( RXRG, TH, CDH23) ( 53 , 111 , 112 ), but lack functional validation studies as well as independent confirmation to support them as possible candidates involved in the pathogenesis of FIPA ( 113 ). Additional conditions with excess GH in the absence of pituitary tumors have been described, and include germline mutations in genes such as IGSF1 and NF1 . IGSF1 is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is highly expressed in the anterior pituitary and hypothalamus, and that is considered essential for normal hormone production ( 114 - 116 ). Loss-of-function mutations in IGSF1 have been associated with an
