Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


expressed in the anterior pituitary and hypothalamus, and that is considered essential for normal hormone production ( 114 - 116 ). Loss-of-function mutations in IGSF1 have been associated with an X-linked syndrome of central hypothyroidism and a variable prevalence of other endocrinopathies, including disharmonious pubertal development with delayed testosterone rise but normal or advanced testicular growth and postpubertal macroorchidism, hyperprolactinemia and GH dysregulation ( 114 , 117 ). A minority of male children with such mutations show partial and transient GH deficiency, while adults more often show high IGF-1 levels, a 2- to 3-fold increase in GH pulsatile and basal secretion and mild acromegaloid features ( 117 , 118 ). Similar features of GH excess were observed in mice ( 117 ). A potentially pathogenic variant in IGSF1 was described in three individuals from the same family showing somato-mammotroph hyperplasia or tumor and gigantism ( 115 ), but, to date, most case series of patients with IGSF1 mutations have consistently showed normal height and no evidence of pituitary tumors ( 116 , 117 , 119 ). It has been proposed that IGSF1 acts as a regulator of pituitary hormone synthesis, but the mechanism behind this is still poorly understood ( 114 , 117 ). Pathogenic mutations in the NF1 gene lead to neurofibromin deficiency and neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF-1). NF-1 is an autosomal dominant condition with increased risk of several benign and malignant tumors, including optic pathway gliomas (OPG), that are frequently diagnosed at a young age. An association between NF-1 and increased growth velocity or tall stature due to GH excess has been described in several case series, with a prevalence ranging from 4.5% ( 120 ) to 46% (in large deletions of NF1 ) ( 121 ). Excess GH is diagnosed in children with NF-1 and OPG, with a prevalence of 10.9% in this patient group according to the largest series published ( 122 ). The most plausible and widely accepted mechanism to explain this association is an induced hypothalamic dysfunction from infiltrative OPG, with reduced somatostatinergic inhibition of GH secretion, corresponding to the fact that there is absence of other pituitary abnormalities in the majority of cases ( 123 ). Another suggestion is that GPR101 dysregulation may occur. However, there are some case reports of NF-1 with concomitant pituitary hyperplasia or tumor, with or without OPG, which leads to the hypothesis that GHRH overexpression may be another
