Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


typically does not lead to disease control ( 125 , 133 ). First generation somatostatin analogues are also usually ineffective in controlling GH hypersecretion, even in the presence of high tumor expression of somatostatin receptor 2 ( 125 ). In patients not controlled by surgery, the GH antagonist pegvisomant has proven effective in controlling IGF-1 levels ( 14 , 41 , 125 , 128 ), but radiotherapy may be used as an alternative for tumor control if radical surgery is not possible. Patients with pituitary hyperplasia have previously been treated with hypophysectomy ( 134 ), while now combined treatment with somatostatin analogue, cabergoline and pegvisomant provides appropriate control ( 14 ). If lesion control and prolactin is not an issue, then patients can be treated just with pegvisomant ( 135 ). Mechanism of Tumorigenesis in XLAG It is unclear what role the hypothalamus plays and what is the role of the pituitary tissue in this disease. As some patients do not have a tumor, but produce very high level of GH, abnormal hypothalamic regulation could play a key role. Indeed, some patients have elevated circulating GHRH levels and mutated cells respond strongly to GHRH ( 136 ). GPR101 is strongly expressed in the normal pituitary during fetal development, from 19 weeks of gestation onwards, with levels declining through to ‘very low’ in adult life, suggesting a role in pituitary maturation ( 137 ). It is strongly over-expressed (both mRNA and protein) in the pituitary lesions of XLAG patients ( 131 , 138 ). A recent paper has identified the mechanism for this. The duplication disrupts the regulatory region borders around the GPR101 gene (the so-called topologically associated domain or TAD) and this leads to overexpression of GPR101 by regulatory elements that normally do not regulate the expression of this gene ( 139 ). Therefore, XLAG is the first endocrine TADopathy. GPR101 has been shown to strongly activate the cAMP pathway. This therefore suggests a mechanism by which its overexpression may lead to tumorigenesis. The transient overexpression of GPR101 in GH3 rat pituitary tumor cells produced increased cellular proliferation and an increase in GH secretion, supporting this hypothesis ( 13 ). MICRODELETION CAUSING GHRH OVEREXPRESSION This novel condition, described for the first time in 2023 ( 17 ), is another genetic cause of severe non-syndromic infant-onset gigantism. It is caused by a heterozygous microdeletion upstream of the GHRH gene, in chromosome
