Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


first time in 2023 ( 17 ), is another genetic cause of severe non-syndromic infant-onset gigantism. It is caused by a heterozygous microdeletion upstream of the GHRH gene, in chromosome 20, that leads to aberrant splicing and produces a chimeric mRNA consisting of exon 1 of the TTI1 gene followed by all the coding exons of the GHRH gene. Since TTI1 is ubiquitously expressed and exon 1 has features of an active promotor, this fusion gene leads to constitutive GHRH overexpression and ectopic production of GHRH. There is only one case described so far, in a Japanese woman, that unfortunately already passed away. Her clinical phenotype was very similar to X-LAG, with significant weight gain starting a few months after birth and rapid growth diagnosed in the first years of life. She had marked GH elevation, prolactin elevation and no evidence of pituitary tumor in the MRI. She had no familial history of tall stature. Treatment with radiotherapy and bromocriptine did not ensure a complete biochemical response and the patient reached an adult height of 197.4 cm. Genome-edited mice with this mutation exhibited the same phenotype of prominent growth starting in the first weeks of life, pituitary hyperplasia and GHRH expression in several tissues besides the hypothalamus, validating the hypothesis that pituitary gigantism was driven by constitutive GHRH overexpression due to an acquired promoter. CLINICAL MANAGEMENT IN FIPA Pituitary adenoma patients with family members also with pituitary adenoma need to be studied for signs and symptoms of MEN1 and Carney complex ( Figure 7 ). If MEN1 and Carney complex are ruled out by the family history and biochemical and clinical assessment of the index patient and family members, the diagnosis of FIPA needs to be considered. These patients would benefit from referral to genetic counselling. Currently, patients can be offered screening for AIP mutations. Childhood-onset pituitary adenoma cases, even without family history, should also been offered genetic counselling and screening for AIP mutation, as a high percentage of young-onset GH-secreting adenomas show mutations in the AIP gene ( 20 , 60 , 140 , 141 ). Around 12% of patients diagnosed with a pituitary tumor before the age of 30 years (and 20% of pediatric patients) were found to have a germline AIP mutation in one study ( 142 ) and so it has been recommended that AIP mutation screening be conducted in anyone diagnosed with a somatotroph or
