Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


have a germline AIP mutation in one study ( 142 ) and so it has been recommended that AIP mutation screening be conducted in anyone diagnosed with a somatotroph or lactotroph adenoma or a macroadenoma (diameter >10mm) before the age of 30 years ( 143 ), and also in any cases of gigantism. One study which examined the incidence in apparently sporadic young-onset pituitary adenoma patients found 6.8% to have an AIP mutation, with a slightly lower incidence of 10.5% in those sporadic patients with somatotrophinomas. Reassuringly, the incidence of mutation in sporadic prolactinoma was only 1.5% ( 12 ). Those diagnosed with a pituitary tumor after the age of 40 years are unlikely to have a germline mutation (none were found in a sample of 443 patient with pituitary adenomas of all histiotypes) ( 57 ) and so screening in this latter population is likely to be unrewarding. The phenomenon of phenocopy needs to be kept in mind both in AIP mutation-positive and AIP mutation-negative families ( 16 , 23 ). Figure 7. Proposed strategy for evaluating the patient with pituitary adenoma with (A) – negative family history and (B) – positive family history (*rare case report). It is suggested that family members of an AIP mutation-positive proband should undergo genetic testing ( Figure 8 suggests a strategy for this process), though this testing may involve significant numbers of people from the affected family and is probably best carried out in genetic centers that are able to arrange testing and counselling of many people, have experience of discussing results of screening, and can maintain family registers ( 22 ). Salivary DNA testing is available for those that are needle-phobic. Figure 8. A proposed strategy for family screening in a family with an AIP mutation-positive proband. *Family member are first degree relatives of those with AIP mutations, or of obligate carriers. Further screening targets are then identified through genetic testing. AIP mutation carriers should be referred to an endocrine service (pediatric or adult) for baseline assessment (clinical examination, biochemical testing, and MRI) ( 141 ). MRI can be delayed for young children if clinical and biochemical results are normal ( 143 ). Children aged 4 years and older should be evaluated annually, with height and weight measurements, height velocity, and pituitary function testing ( 143 ). The frequency of imaging surveillance if biochemical and clinical findings are normal is difficult
