Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


evaluated annually, with height and weight measurements, height velocity, and pituitary function testing ( 143 ). The frequency of imaging surveillance if biochemical and clinical findings are normal is difficult to judge with the available data: every 5 years was suggested until the age of 30 ( 143 ), with annual clinical assessment and basal hormone profiling ( 19 ). More recently, the emergence of an inverted-U shape pattern to the age of onset has led to the suggestion that if there is no evidence of disease at the age of 20 years, then surveillance protocols can be relaxed slightly ( 12 ). The youngest case identified of AIP mutation-positive patient with a large macroadenoma with apoplexy was 4 years old with significant symptoms and rapid growth velocity already from age 3 years ( 43 ). Although only 15% of the AIP cases present symptoms before the age of 10 years ( 19 ), and the above mentioned patient is the single case known presenting before the age of 5 years, these data need to be taken into account when counselling AIP mutation-positive families for the timing of genetic screening and starting clinical follow-up ( 141 , 143 ). If AIP screening, which includes exons, exon-intron junction and promoter area sequencing as well as MLPA is negative, then currently no further genetic screening is possible. In AIP mutation-negative family’s potential carriers with a 50% chance inheriting the disease-causing mutation should be offered clinical assessment. The age of first clinical assessment of family members in AIP -negative families should be around early teenage years as the current youngest case was found at the age of 12 years ( 143 ). We have already prospectively diagnosed several pituitary adenomas (both functioning macroadenomas and non-functioning microadenomas) in our cohort in both AIP -positive and AIP mutation-negative families ( 12 , 60 ). Screening allows the early detection and treatment of those with adenomas, perhaps before the endocrine effects become apparent or before the local effects of tumor bulk are problematic. It is important to draw the attention of the family to the possible symptoms of pituitary disease, as awareness of symptoms results in earlier diagnosis of the disease in subsequent generations ( 1 , 11 ). Data on long-term follow-up of asymptomatic carriers is currently being collected. In our clinic, we see asymptomatic young (<30 years old) carriers once a year and after
