Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


, 11 ). Data on long-term follow-up of asymptomatic carriers is currently being collected. In our clinic, we see asymptomatic young (<30 years old) carriers once a year and after a normal baseline MRI we will consider a repeat MRI in 5 years. We consider relaxing follow-up at 30 years and stopping follow-up at 50 years for AIP mutation-positive family members if no tumor has been detected by this time. The relatively high frequency of pituitary incidentalomas in the general population ( 144 ) also needs to be carefully considered both in AIP positive and negative cases. One paper ( 22 ) has suggested repeating an MRI pituitary and hormone testing at 6 months after the discovery of a pituitary incidentaloma in AIP mutation-positive individual with normal biochemistry, with annual hormone testing thereafter if the MRI was unchanged. Those with apparently cured AIP mutation-positive tumors (but without external beam radiotherapy) should be followed up carefully as any residual pituitary tissue will be heterozygous for the AIP mutation and so there is a risk of the occurrence of further pituitary adenomas ( 22 ). SUMMARY FIPA is a condition where there is an inherited propensity to the development of pituitary adenomas. The causative gene for the vast majority (76%) of kindreds is unknown: 21% of these have a mutation in the AIP gene, 3% have a duplication on the X chromosome (X-linked acrogigantism, XLAG). There are significant phenotypic differences between these groups, with XLAG presenting with infant-onset gigantism (range 0.5-2 years) most often with prolactin co-secretion, AIP cases presenting with childhood-onset GH or prolactin-secreting tumors, while the spectrum of AIP-negative FIPA kindred represent the full spectrum of pituitary adenoma subtypes with age of onset between the ages of 20 and 50 years with a peak incidence around the age of 30 years. FIPA patients are more likely to have larger (macroadenomas), more aggressive tumors, and an earlier onset of disease compared to sporadic pituitary adenomas. AIP mutation-positive tumors are more likely to be larger and invade the extrasellar region than sporadic adenomas. It has also been observed that the AIP mutated adenomas are more prone to undergoing apoplexy than AIP mutation-negative adenomas. All XLAG tumors described so far are GH producing, with a majority also secreting prolactin. XLAG can result in a spectrum of pituitary gland appearances, ranging from large adenomas to pituitary hyperplasia. The tumors tend not to invade or
