Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


with a majority also secreting prolactin. XLAG can result in a spectrum of pituitary gland appearances, ranging from large adenomas to pituitary hyperplasia. The tumors tend not to invade or undergo apoplexy. AIP mutated adenomas are more difficult to treat than their non-mutated counterparts, they are more likely to be resistant to somatostatin analogue therapy, more likely to require radiotherapy, and have higher rates of failure to gain control of IGF-1 with pegvisomant treatment. Treatment of XLAG is also challenging. Tumors can grow rapidly and are difficult to control even with high doses of somatostatin analogue or dopamine agonists. Pegvisomant is effective in normalizing IGF-1, while tumor control may need radical surgery or radiotherapy. FIPA Diagnosis and Screening The first step in trying to establish a diagnosis in patients with pituitary adenomas and with a family history of pituitary adenoma should be to exclude MEN1 and Carney complex. This can be achieved through the taking of a thorough family history and through the clinical and biochemical assessment of the index patient, and if possible other affected family members. If these conditions are excluded then the diagnosis of FIPA should be considered, and these patients should be referred for genetic counselling. Additionally, any childhood onset pituitary adenoma case (irrespective of family history), any somatotroph or lactotroph adenoma, or any macroadenoma diagnosed before the age of 30 and any cases of gigantism should all be referred for genetic counselling. No cases of AIP germline mutation were found in a large study of patients diagnosed with a pituitary tumor after the age of 40 years – and for this reason, genetic screening in this population is unlikely to be rewarding. AIP mutation carriers should be referred to an endocrine service (pediatric or adult) for baseline assessment (clinical examination, biochemical testing, and MRI). MRI can be delayed for young children if clinical and biochemical results are normal. Children aged 4 years and older should be evaluated annually, with height and weight measurements, height velocity, and pituitary function testing. If biochemical and clinical findings are normal then 5-yearly MRIs until the age of 30, with annual clinical assessment and basal hormone profiling, is the suggested follow-up protocol. For AIP positive families we suggest starting genetic screening as soon as the family agrees as the youngest case identified was at the age of 4 years with 1-year history of symptoms, presenting with a large macroadenoma. If
