Familial Isolated Pituitary Adenoma
KEYWORDS: aip, pituitary, pubmed, tumors, adenomas, patients, mutations, tumor, free, article, article pubmed, pmc, pmc free, free article, families


screening as soon as the family agrees as the youngest case identified was at the age of 4 years with 1-year history of symptoms, presenting with a large macroadenoma. If AIP screening, which includes exons, exon-intron junction and promoter area sequencing as well as multiple ligation probe amplification (MLPA), is negative, then currently no further genetic screening is possible. In AIP mutation-negative families, potential carriers with a 50% chance of inheriting the disease-causing mutation should be offered clinical assessment. The age of first clinical assessment of family members in AIP negative families should be around early teenage years as the current youngest case was found at the age of 12 years. Prospectively-diagnosed pituitary adenomas have been shown to have a better outcome. Screening allows the early detection and treatment of those with adenomas, perhaps before the endocrine effects become apparent or before the local effects of tumor bulk become problematic. It is important to draw the attention of the family to the possible symptoms of pituitary disease, as awareness of symptoms results in earlier diagnosis of the disease in subsequent generations. In unaffected AIP mutation carriers, follow-up can be relaxed at the age of 30 years if no tumor has been detected by this time, and follow-up can cease at 50 years, based on the available data. The relatively high frequency of pituitary incidentalomas in the general population also needs to be carefully considered both in AIP positive and negative family members. One strategy involves repeating an MRI pituitary and hormone testing at 6-12 months after the discovery of a pituitary incidentaloma in AIP mutation-positive individuals with normal biochemistry, with annual hormone testing thereafter if the MRI is unchanged. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT We are grateful for Dr Craig Stiles (Barts Health NHS Trust, London), who contributed to the previous version of this Endotext chapter. REFERENCES 1. Chahal HS, Chapple JP, Frohman LA, Grossman AB, Korbonits M. Clinical, genetic and molecular characterization of patients with familial isolated pituitary adenomas (FIPA). Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2010;21:419-27. [ PubMed : 20570174 ] 2. Verloes A, Stevenaert A, Teh BT, Petrossians P, Beckers A. Familial acromegaly: case report and review of the literature. Pituitary. 1999;1(3-4):273-7. [ PubMed : 11081208 ] 3. Xekouki P, Pacak K, Almeida M, Wassif CA, Rustin P, Nesterova M, et al. Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) D subunit (SDHD) inactivation in a growth-hormone-producing pituitary tumor: a new association for SDH? J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012;97(3):E357-66.
