Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


Fiscal Policies for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Rachel Nugent and Felicia Knaul Governments use fiscal policy to encourage healthy behavior. The chapter is divided into five sections: The instruments ofgovernment for this purpose are taxes and • The first section provides a general framework through which fiscal policy options can be considered in terms of or at subsidized rates.Examples offiscal policies for health are their impact on health and the health sector. taxes on tobacco and alcohol,subsidies on certain foods,and • The next section examines the experiences in developing tax incentives for health care purchases. countries ofusing subsidies to achieve health-related objec- Government intervention through fiscal policy works best tives (columns 1 and 2 in table 11.1). when public institutions and credibility are strong,the design • The third section presents examples of how taxes are used and application of the fiscal instruments are appropriate,and ina number of countries to promote health (column 3 in consumers’and producers’responsiveness to a price signal is table 11.1). high.When these conditions are not present,direct provision, • The next section discusses nonhealth goods where fiscal information and education campaigns, or legislation may be policies are often used and have important indirect health preferable in conjunction with fiscal policy. benefits (lower part ofcolumn 2 in table 11.1). Thepurposeofthischapteristoreviewcountryexperiences • The final section presents conclusions and suggestions for withpromotinghealththroughfiscalpoliciesandtoexamine further research and policy development. theusefulnessandsuccessofthesepolicies.Thechapterconsid- ersboththeroleoffiscalpoliciesintheproductionofhealthand theeffectofthesepoliciesonthewell-beingoftheeconomy— fiscalpolicyforhealthandhealthyfiscalpolicy.1Littleexistsin USE OF FISCAL POLICY FOR HEALTH theliteraturelinkingfiscalpolicyandhealthpromotionexcept IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES inrelationtotobacco.Thisworkcontributestofillingthatgap. The chapter deals specifically with experiences at the coun- Fiscal policies come in a wide range of designs,but the main try level with tax policies affecting some goods related to effect is either to alter the price of health-related goods or to alter the quantity available.Table 11.2 summarizes the health provision of workplace promotion of healthy behavior and interventions subject to fiscal policies. The behaviors that caregiving; and direct subsidies affecting food provision and require these interventions are divided into the following fortification, cooking fuels, water purification and soap, con- categories: doms, bednets, vaccines, and medical research. The chapter financing, either directly by governments or through insur- which the most salient fiscal policies are taxes on consumers ance,because other chapters deal with those topics. and producers,and fines Table 11.1 Fiscal Policies for Health Promotion Covered in Chapter 11 Subsidy Health-related Subsidized Health-related Government for or tax products receiving provision products directly financing of imposed on direct subsidies of
