Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


11.1 Fiscal Policies for Health Promotion Covered in Chapter 11 Subsidy Health-related Subsidized Health-related Government for or tax products receiving provision products directly financing of imposed on direct subsidies of health taxed health care Consumer Medicine Caregiving (partially covered) Tobacco Not covered Food Alcohol Cooking fuel Food Water purification Imported medicine and supplies Soap Condoms Bednets Producer Vaccinations Workplace promotion of healthy Fuel usage (partially covered) Food additives behavior (partially covered) Medical research Source: Authors. • health promotion and disease and accident prevention SUBSIDIES FOR HEALTH AND lifestyles),forwhichthemostimportantfiscalinstruments Using examples primarily from developing countries,this sec- aresubsidies,butwhichmayalsobeaffectedbytaxpolicy tion of the chapter analyzes the range of subsidies that are housing,agriculture,energy,charitable giving,charities that cusses producer subsidies. provide targeted subsidies,and so on),which are often sub- ject to their own particular tax regime or sets of subsidies Consumer Subsidies that affect their production or consumption and,therefore, also affect health behavior Governments use consumer subsidies to encourage the use ofa • research and development initiatives that can be applied to beneficial product by lowering the price consumers pay— tions and subsidies. market prices of the good are too high, or both situations apply—to otherwise achieve a socially optimal consumption Fiscal interventions can have various rationales, such as level. Examples include subsidies for staple foods, condoms, macroeconomic benefits,equity,or efficiency—and promoting soap,insecticide-treated bednets,cooking fuels,and medicines. health may or may not be the primary goal.A fiscal policy may be designed to affect some other sphere ofbehavior or a good Staple Foods. Ample evidence indicates that food subsidies health or the use of health care may be indirect. The shaded geting is often a problem .Subsidies may be boxesin table 11.3 indicate the possible rationale behind each targeted to specific foods, specific delivery locales or geo- type offiscal policy. graphic areas,or specific populations.Often targeting includes A fiscal policy should be effective, efficient, and cost- all three. effective and should promote or maintain equity goals. An Food-specific subsidies, whether in the form of general effective tax or subsidy reaches the intended target and alters subsidies, ration cards, quotas, or food stamps, increase food health-related behavior in the desired manner. An efficient consumption.They will have a positive effect on health if this policy minimizes resource distortions and involves minimal consumption occurs in undernourished populations that administrativecosts.Acost-effectivepolicyhasthelowestcost require increased caloric or nutrient intake.In some cases,food relativetothedesiredhealthgoal. subsidy programs have had unintended macroeconomic and 212 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Rachel
