Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


insufficient to justify imposition of the fee. The dropoff in to cover four staple foods and now accounts for 6 percent of condom use during the cost-recovery period persuaded the government expenditures. Nevertheless, about 75 percent of jurisdictiontoreinstatethefreedistributionprogram. the population holds ration cards entitling them to purchase Another example suggests that promotion and information thesubsidizedfoods.Theprogramisintendedtoachieveself- are also effective. A social-marketing effort in Turkey in the targeting, but the nonpoor purchase many of the subsidized early 1990s offered condoms at a commercial price but foods.Theprogramaccountsfor44percentofthetotalcalorie included intensive advertising and other promotional efforts.It supplyofthepoorestquintilegroup,butinruralareas,therich achieved sales well beyond original expectations and gained obtainmorecaloriesfromsubsidizedfoodthanthepoordo. 41percent ofthe market share . Musgrove (1993) reviews 104 supplementary feeding pro- grams in 19 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean.The Water Purification. The U.S.Centers for Disease Control and 1,000 individuals to those supplying 28 million people;oftypes designed the Safe Water System Initiative to improve the qual- of subsidies (namely, food distribution, direct feeding, and ity ofdrinking water for households that draw their water from direct payments);oflevels ofcoverage ofthe targeted popula- sources outside the home.The principle underlying the initia- tion, ranging from 1.9 to 100.0 percent; and of extent of tive is to subsidize storage containers,disinfectant,and educa- coverage ofthe poor,varying from 5.8 to 88.0 percent.The per tion on proper handling to avoid contamination (Quick and capita costs ofreaching beneficiaries differed widely.The most others 1999). Numerous countries have implemented similar common reasons for program ineffectiveness were spreading initiatives,including Bangladesh,Bolivia,Burkina Faso,Kenya, resources too thinly across beneficiaries, targeting foods with and Zambia.The government provides containers and chemi- and encountering excessive costs in distributing resources. cost ofboiling water (Quick and others 2002). 216 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Rachel Nugent and Felicia Knaul Soap. Another proven method for reducing the incidence of grams have been designed to promote the use ofliquid petro- diarrhea and other hygiene-related diseases is hand washing, leum gas, natural gas, or kerosene, which burn more cleanly with or without soap.Whether the key factor is education or and emit a low amount ofsmoke and particulates,but none has the subsidized provision ofsoap is unclear.Some investigators been efficacious or efficient . claim that small-scale programs that subsidize soap and edu- Liquid petroleum gas subsidies have been shown to benefit cate households about the benefits of hand washing are self- middle- and higher-income families in urban areas rather than financing because of the consequent reduction in disease the poor
