Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


benefit cate households about the benefits of hand washing are self- middle- and higher-income families in urban areas rather than financing because of the consequent reduction in disease the poor .In attempting to target the poor more (Borghi and others 2002). accurately, Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal focused subsidies on Luby and others’(2001) results from Pakistan suggest that smaller liquid petroleum gas cylinders but found that poor education alone may be just as effective as education accompa- consumers still preferred charcoal . Electricity nied by soap provision in reducing diarrheal disease.By con- subsidies in low-income countries are also often skewed toward trast,Hoque (2003) and other researchers suggest that the cost the well off,who are more likely than the poor to be connected ofsoap is a barrier to its widespread use among extremely poor to the electricity grid . populations and that behavioral change may be difficult to achieve without a subsidy. Medicines and Medical Supplies. In relation to the direct pro- Insecticide-Treated Bednets. The degree of subsidization of services ofmedical personnel,governments may subsidize and bednets has become a controversial issue, with some arguing regulate drug prices,make bulk purchases from manufacturers for full subsidization and others for partial subsidization.Most for distribution at reduced prices,and distribute certain drugs long-term studies indicate that consumers resist purchasing with complete or partial subsidies to target populations. bednets even at subsidized prices after they have had access to Specific interventions—for instance, antiretrovirals, vaccines, free bednets (Snow and others 1999). or reproductive health care—are often more heavily subsidized A number ofresearchers have undertaken studies in various or may be targeted by population group or disease—for exam- (Armstrong-Schellenberg and others 2001; Kolaczinski and low costs of these medicinal interventions make them good others 2004; Snow and others 1999). The key issue is con- targets for subsidization. sumers’ responsiveness to changes in the prices of bednets, Worrall 2002;Simon and others 2002).The evidence suggests bine the public provision of services with subsidized health that responsiveness to price changes alone may be modest,but insurance for families below a certain income cutoff. Both in combination with removing some of the other barriers, models require identifying the families that are unable to afford demand for bednets could increase substantially in malaria- health care and the types ofservices that are considered public affected regions (Simon and others 2002). goods. Nigeria removed tariffs and taxes on bednet insecticide in One example of subsidizing the production and
