Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


the types ofservices that are considered public affected regions (Simon and others 2002). goods. Nigeria removed tariffs and taxes on bednet insecticide in One example of subsidizing the production and provision to 27 percent increase in purchases (Simon and others 2002). PROGRESAandnowknownasOportunidades.Thisprogram Another study that reviewed a public sector subsidy for bednets is also an example of how income transfers for other goods combined with private sector marketing and distribution by can affect health and how cross-subsidies can be used to means of a social-marketing scheme concluded that the pro- strengthen the incentive effects of a fiscal policy to promote gram was successful because 18 percent ofchildren slept under healthy behavior. The government launched the program in bednets as a result; however, the low insecticide retreatment 1997toprovidesubsidizedhealth,nutrition,andeducationto rate led the authors to conclude that subsidies were needed on poor families. By mid 2004, it was serving the majority of both bednets and insecticide (Armstrong-Schellenberg and those living below the poverty line.Oportunidades combines others 2001). a cash transfer equivalent to 20 to 30 percent of families’ incomes that includesincentivesforpositivebehaviorsinrela- a result ofexposure to smoke and particle emissions from bio- health interventions. The program is largely financed from mass burning in many developing countries.Fuel subsidy pro- federalbudgets. Fiscal Policies for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention | 217 Oportunidades is successful both in terms of targeting the tutions to grant and monitor the tax benefits,and the ability to poorest households and in terms ofachieving measurable gains forgo alternative public investments. attendance,and school achievement.Gertler (2004),for exam- TAXES AND TAX EXPENDITURES: ple,finds significant and cumulative reduction in illness rates DESIGN ANDOUTCOMES among children,lower prevalence ofanemia,and an addition- al centimeter ofgrowth in the first year ofthe program. The following section describes various examples ofthe use of The program’s success is attributable to many factors, taxation directed at both consumers and producers.This sec- including a rigorous longitudinal evaluation process; an inte- tion of the chapter also analyzes the design issues that are gratedpackageofservices;andthepresenceoffinancialstimuli important in order to guarantee that these instruments con- tiedtoschoolattendance,visitstohealthclinics,andparticipa- tribute to achieving healthy fiscal policy. tioninhealtheducationinitiatives.Furthermore,theprogram incorporatesseveraltargetingmethods. Taxes on Consumers Sales taxes—including excise taxes and value added taxes— andexemptions from those taxes are the most common fiscal Producer Subsidies policy tools used to influence consumers’ health purchases. Governments use producer subsidies to encourage production Examples are exempting medicines and foods from sales tax that improves health by lowering manufacturers’costs in situa- and imposing
