Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


influence consumers’ health purchases. Governments use producer subsidies to encourage production Examples are exempting medicines and foods from sales tax that improves health by lowering manufacturers’costs in situa- and imposing an excise tax on cigarettes and alcohol. tions in which the private market supply is inadequate to meet Developed countries often use income tax incentives to provide Food Fortification. Governments sometimes subsidize the “Sin”Taxes on Tobacco and Alcohol. A wide range of coun- fortification of staple foods through the addition of selected tries and local jurisdictions have taxed tobacco,with acknowl- micronutrients as a way of achieving broadly based nutrition edged success in reducing consumption (P. Jha 1999). The improvements. Challenges involve maintaining a relationship health benefits of curbing the demand for cigarettes may go gram,and the private sector,which implements the fortifica- secondhand smoke ifconsumer expenditures are diverted from tion. Incentives for private providers are often needed in the cigarettes to healthier alternatives (for example,food). form oftax exemptions,import preferences,subsidies for start- Taxes on alcohol are widespread and are used primarily to up costs, quality control, and training. Illegal markets selling raise revenue.Governments typically impose taxes at the pro- nonfortified products at a lower price often arise in response ducer,wholesale,and retail levels that are levied as a percentage (Alderman 2002; Dorosh, del Ninno, and Sahn 1996; Rao of the sale price or are based on a flat amount per unit. 2000). Harmful alcohol consumption is controlled through prohibi- tion,government monopolization of sales,“dry”days,restric- consists of the provision of direct subsidies for private sector locations for sales and consumption,laws against drinking and investment,the granting oftax benefits for private research and driving,limits to alcohol content,laws against the sale of cer- development(R&D)investment,theestablishmentofproperty tain types ofalcohol,and licensing. vate goods by other means .Despite the strong in developing countries,generally in higher proportions than evidence from developed countries that the private sector will in developed countries ,but smuggling and tax underinvest in R&D and that tax incentives increase R&D evasion are common.For example,Zimbabwe raised taxes on investment,developing countries should be cautious in apply- certain beers in 1995 but repealed the increase within months ing those results to their own situations. Empirical investiga- when tax revenues dropped significantly .Some tions tend to conclude that producer subsidies for R&D in developing countries have lowered alcohol taxes with conse- developing countries are not effective (Shah 1995;Zee,Stotsky, quent negative results. Mauritius experienced a dramatic and Ley 2002).Many conditions need to be in place
