Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


countries have lowered alcohol taxes with conse- developing countries are not effective (Shah 1995;Zee,Stotsky, quent negative results. Mauritius experienced a dramatic and Ley 2002).Many conditions need to be in place to realize increase in drunk-driving arrests, alcohol-related fatalities, high social returns and to minimize rent seeking and profiteer- and hospital admissions after it reduced taxes on alcohol stimulated by the public investment,the presence ofappropri- the evidence that such taxes are well targeted to those most at ate targeting,a transparent and fair set ofpublic laws and insti- risk ofproblem drinking is not strong. 218 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Rachel Nugent and Felicia Knaul Box 11.1 Using Taxes to Influence Consumption and Production Behavior Taxes as a tool for health policy face significant imple- informal or illegal markets. Smuggled or contraband mentation obstacles. First, targeting can be difficult. A products that cannot be regulated or certified for quality close link must exist between the consumption of the and safety, such as alcohol or tobacco in particular, may product or behavior to be taxed and a specific population be more harmful to health than goods that are legally tax on “junk”food,even though it would only present a Any tax should be efficient in terms ofboth its admin- health threat to a small percentage of them. The taxed istration and its effect on resource allocation.Tax author- good must also be appropriately defined in relation to ities need a well-functioning system for imposing,collect- close substitutes;for example,taxing only certain forms of ing, and monitoring taxes and taxed products, and the tobacco such as cigarettes,but not chewing tobacco,may public should perceive the system as fair and credible in increase consumption ofthe latter.Governments may also order to achieve a high degree ofcompliance. distinguish between locally produced goods and imported Finally, a tax should be cost-effective in achieving its place a higher tax on the good that is less harmful, this imposing the tax should compare favorably with the net action will encourage greater consumption of the more costs of using another policy instrument,such as regula- harmful good. tion or direct government provision. Depending on the the feasibility of smuggling and the existence of large revenue goal may even be at odds. Source: Authors. Food Taxes. The issue of taxing unhealthy foods has received in a setting where overnutrition and undernutrition coexist increasing attention in the wake ofthe Global Strategy on Diet, mayhavemixedoutcomes. countries ofthe
