Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


substitution but indicate the likelihood of .At the same time,the dynamics offood choice uneven sectoral incidence of the emissions tax. For example, and the effects ofprice manipulation need to be better under- bakeries were responsive to changes in relative prices,whereas stood before tax and subsidy systems can be designed to effec- metal products plants were unresponsive, and meat packers tively promote healthy food choices. were unable to adjust their electricity demand but could reduce energy from other sources (World Bank 1994b).If this poten- Sales Tax Exemptions on Healthy and Staple Foods and tial were realized on a global or regional basis—for example, Medicines and Other Health Care Goods. Governments may through agreements to the Kyoto Protocol—a double benefit of set tax policies to ensure that certain expenditures on health- reducing harmful externalities and raising significant revenues related behaviors and health goods are tax deductible or tax might be achieved. exempt for firms, employers, or individuals. Exemptions should apply to a limited number of goods that are easily dif- FISCAL POLICY TO PROMOTE HEALTH ferentiated from goods that are not exempted. Note that in countries with large informal sectors,income tax systems are The fiscal policies discussed in this chapter in relation to health weak, and fiscal policies for the deductibility of credits are and health care goods can be applied to other goods and mar- unlikely to be effective. kets,such as housing and education,some of which may have South Africa provided value added tax exemptions for a important effects on health.This chapter does not provide an short list of essential foods and found a varied consumption exhaustive discussion of the goods that indirectly promote pattern by commodity, with the poor receiving most of the benefits ofthe maize exemption,but few ofthe benefits ofthe relation to workplaces, employment leave policies, and day milk exemption (Alderman and del Ninno 1999). care. Note that policies focused on formal labor markets will Mexico imposes a 15 percent value added tax on almost all not be effective in reaching large segments ofthe population in some foods.Recently,a government proposal to make drug and such as day care, that are not based on formal labor market food purchases eligible for value added tax and to channel the participation may have a broader effect. resulting revenues into financing programs targeted to the poor has given rise to extensive debate. Those in favor have Workplace Health argued that the existing subsidy
