Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


have a broader effect. resulting revenues into financing programs targeted to the poor has given rise to extensive debate. Those in favor have Workplace Health argued that the existing subsidy is regressive because most drug and food purchases are by the wealthy (Fundación Mexicana Governments can use tax relief and financial support to pro- para la Salud 2001). ducers to encourage firm-specific actions to promote health. Many developing countries concerned about the spread of Many countries mandate safeguards in the workplace and 220 | Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries | Rachel Nugent and Felicia Knaul government actions are mandates rather than fiscal policies, mayhave to use low-quality care or leave children unattended. but a combination ofapproaches may also be used. Van der Gaag and Tan (1997) argue for public subsidies based A growing area for workplace health promotion is on cost-benefit analysis of early childhood development pro- HIV/AIDS.Bloom and others (2004) suggest that the failure on grams.They conclude that the greatest payoffcomes from tar- the part of most firms to act—even if they correctly perceive geting the most deprived families and that the private benefits the business,human,and social challenges HIV/AIDS poses— are sufficient to expect better-offparents to pay. is attributable to a lack of incentives. Significant externalities Two large-scale,home-based day care programs targeted to (benefits to society and firms) are likely to result from promot- poor families are Community Well-Being Homes (Hogares ing greater action by firms. Some private firms have begun Comunitarios de Bienestar) run by the Colombian Institute for providing HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment services to Family Well-Being (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar employees,families,and their communities (“Face Value:AIDS Familiar) in Colombia and the Integrated Child and Business” 2004). Sometimes government support is Development Program in Bolivia.The former is an interesting involved, but little information is available to evaluate the case of a targeted cross-subsidy because the financing comes potential offiscal policy. from the wealthier formal sector by means of a payroll tax, whereas the services are targeted to the poorest families. The program was 85 percent subsidized in the early 1990s.Parents Maternity Leave, Sick Leave, and Family Care Leave paid a proportion of the caregivers’ wages on a sliding-scale Government policy can alter choices regarding different types user fee . The Bolivian program includes nutri- support for caregiving, although most focus on children. one of the few early childhood programs in developing coun- Rhum (1998) cites evidence that
