Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


fee . The Bolivian program includes nutri- support for caregiving, although most focus on children. one of the few early childhood programs in developing coun- Rhum (1998) cites evidence that more than 100 countries— tries that has been formally evaluated (Behrman,Cheng,and and almost all the industrial countries—have some legislation Todd 2000). The evaluation shows that the program signifi- about parental leave,although in several countries it is unpaid. cantly increases cognitive achievement, although the results Caregiving policies that allow people to take time off work depend on age and the duration ofexposure to the program. to care for aged and chronically ill family members are lesscommon than policies for child care,particularly in devel- oping countries,but tax benefits and allowances for these types CONCLUSIONS ofcaregiving are becoming increasingly available in the indus- trial countries (Brodsky, Habib, and Mizrahi 2000; Pijl 2003; A broad range ofexperiences cited in this chapter demonstrates Wiener2003).Although the provision ofservices in kind by the that fiscal and health policies interact in a number of areas. government is still an important mechanism, the trend is Although substantial research has focused on tobacco and alco- deductions that allow them to choose among caregiving workplace—have been much less recognized or studied,partic- options.Countries tend to use a combined approach to financ- ularly in developing countries. ing that relies on payroll taxes imposed on employees and The research presented in this chapter suggests that fiscal that developing countries need to address in this respect countries. Nevertheless, budgetary limitations to withstand include targeting compared with universal provision, the pressure for program expansion,leakages to unintended bene- mechanisms to pay for or to insure care, and the extent to ficiaries,public compliance with the tax system,and corruption which long-term care should be integrated into the health care among both government officials and the public are important and social service systems (Brodsky,Habib,and Mizrahi 2000; factors to take into account in design and implementation. WHO 2003). Table 11.4summarizes some lessons learned on the use of fis- cal policy to promote health. Governments may find it worthwhile to examine their use Day Care and Early Childhood Education offiscal policies to identify the entire range ofeffects and have deductions or direct provision,to increase the use and quality chapter indicates an area for increased interaction between ofearly childhood education and child care services.Important ministries ofhealth and finance.Healthy fiscal policy and fiscal support subsidizing these services,particularly for low-income and formalized between the two
