Chapter
KEYWORDS: health, countries, food, tax, fiscal, subsidies, policy, taxes, policies, developing, use, care, subsidy, foods, disease


for increased interaction between ofearly childhood education and child care services.Important ministries ofhealth and finance.Healthy fiscal policy and fiscal support subsidizing these services,particularly for low-income and formalized between the two areas of policy making to families, because without subsidies women may be forced to guarantee that those developing fiscal policy take both its eco- Fiscal Policies for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention | 221 Table 11.4 Lessons in Using Fiscal Policy for Health Promotion Intervention choice Program design Instrument design Policy regime • Select interventions that directly • Ensure that the health benefits of • Choose the appropriate recipients • Ensure that policy is consistent address the health objective. the desired change are apparent for a subsidy or tax preference. and predictable. • Ensure that interventions are and significant. • Do not spread the benefits across • Ensure that institutions carrying change, but not excessive. adequate and stable and that no • Note that targeting by demo- able, and uncorrupted. • Choose interventions with high untaxed close substitutes are graphic, geographic, or need cate- • Consider tradeoffs between effi- health returns and low costs available. gories is more efficient than no ciency and distributional goals. relative to alternatives. • Be aware that a large informal targeting or self-targeting. • Seek non–health sector opportuni- labor sector will limit the • Be aware of the price elasticities ties to effect health goals. effectiveness and equity of of a taxed good so that its benefit delivery. incidence is clear. • Avoid programs whose expenses may become unsustainable because of uncontrollable factors. Source:Authors. Rigorous evaluation studies are needed ofmost ofthe fiscal REFERENCES policy interventions discussed in this chapter. Such studies Adams,R.2000.“Self-Targeted Subsidies:The Political and Distributional Impact ofthe Egyptian Food Subsidy System.”Economic Development utional effects ofusing fiscal policy to achieve health goals and and Cultural Change49 (1):115–36. should be performed in a range of countries with mixed pub- Alderman,H.C.2002.Price and Tax Subsidization of Consumer Goods. studies should also examine the differing effects of policies in Alderman,H.C.,and C.del Ninno.1999.“Poverty Issues for Zero Rating VAT in South Africa.”Journal ofAfrican Economies8 (2):182–208. urban and rural settings and across income quintiles.Of par- Armstrong-Schellenberg, J., S. Abdulla, R. Nathan, O. Mukasa, T. J. ticularly high priority are further studies ofthe results ofsub- Marchant,N.Kikumbih,and others.2001.“Effect ofLarge-Scale Social sidizing drugs, medical supplies, and hygiene interventions Marketing of Insecticide-Treated Nets on Child Survival in Rural with or without education campaigns.Those areas may reveal
