CEN Case Reports (2025) 14:366–373
KEYWORDS: taurine, patient, mitochondrial, patients, physical, activity, supplementation, case, physical activity, initiation, levels, taurine supplementation, hemodialysis, nephropathy, kidney


glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was decreased drial genes that primarily affect mitochondrial oxidative to 35 mL/min/1.73 m2. The patient exhibited nephrotic phosphorylation . The m.3243A > G mutation in the range proteinuria with urinary protein excretion of 3.95 mitochondrial tRNA Leu (UUR) gene (MT-TL1) is the most g/d and serum albumin of 3.1 g/dL, warranting a kidney common pathogenic mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) point biopsy. The family history of the patient revealed that her chondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, stroke-like of unknown etiology and her sister was diagnosed with episodes (MELAS), maternally inherited diabetes and sudden sensorineural hearing loss. deafness (MIDD), and myoclonic epilepsy and ragged- The histological findings of the kidney re-biopsy are red fibers (MERRF) . The age of onset and phenotypic displayed in Fig. 1. The ratio of cortex to medulla was nostic challenges, particularly in cases of mitochondrial of which 11 showed global sclerosis while 2 had collapsed. nephropathy due to the absence of specific kidney patho- Segmental sclerosis was observed in one glomerulus. One logical findings. glomerulus exhibited segmental collapse of the capillary, Patients with MD typically exhibit decreased levels of accompanied by podocyte hyperplasia. No evidence of physical activity. A previous study showed that children mesangial hypercellularity or increase in the mesangial fatigue levels, and had a lower quality of life than healthy fibrosis were identified in 40% of cortex. Moderate inti- children . Stroke-like episodes, characterized by focal mal thickening was observed at the level of the interlobu- neurological dysfunction, bilateral convulsions, altered lar arteries, whereas no arteriolar hyalinosis was noted. consciousness, or any combination of these features, are Immunofluorescence tests revealed mildly positive find- taurine has been reported to prevent stroke-like episodes specificity. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of in patients with MELAS , its effectiveness in improving minor electron-dense mesangial deposits. A segmental physical activity levels in patients with MD caused by MT- foot process effacement was observed and no thinning of TL1 mutations has not been investigated. the glomerular basement membrane was identified. The Here, we present the case of a female patient undergoing possibility of subclinical IgA nephropathy was considered hemodialysis for MD caused by an MT-TL1 mutation. based on immunofluorescence and electron microscopy initiation and subsequently experienced significant losclerosis (FSGS) was made. improvements in physical activity levels following taurine The clinical course of the patient is shown in Fig. 2. Ini- supplementation. tially, the patient was treated with steroid pulse
