CEN Case Reports (2025) 14:366–373
KEYWORDS: taurine, patient, mitochondrial, patients, physical, activity, supplementation, case, physical activity, initiation, levels, taurine supplementation, hemodialysis, nephropathy, kidney


was made. improvements in physical activity levels following taurine The clinical course of the patient is shown in Fig. 2. Ini- supplementation. tially, the patient was treated with steroid pulse therapy, cyclosporine, and mizoribine for primary FSGS. However, the nephrotic range proteinuria was treatment-resistant, resulting in progressive decline of kidney function. The Case report patient also developed several steroid-associated complica- tions, including early onset diabetes. The patient presented A 27-year-old Japanese woman presented to a community with hearing loss, suggesting a genetic etiology based on clinic with leg edema. The patient was diagnosed with family history. Although genetic testing was considered a proteinuria and kidney dysfunction, prompting a referral potential diagnostic approach, we were initially unable to to the Nephrology Department at our university hospital. propose this option because of the psychological instability The medical history of the patient revealed a bilateral of the patient, which was probably exacerbated by the steroid sensorineural hearing loss. In addition, at the age of 19, treatment. Given the background of advanced CKD, immu- the patient underwent renal biopsy at another university nosuppressive therapies were gradually discontinued and did not generate a definitive diagnosis. The patient was tiated. Approximately 4 years after treatment initiation, the managed conservatively, but discontinued follow-up after patient opted for hemodialysis as RRT, and an arteriovenous 3 years. Five years after discontinuation of follow-up fistula was created. Hemodialysis was initiated following a occurrence of severe fatigue. 3 68 CEN Case Reports (2025) 14:366–373 Table 1 Laboratory data and urinalysis At admission for hemodialysis initiation, a decreased left ventricular ejection fraction of 48.0% and progressive left Parameters Results Unit ventricular hypertrophy were observed in echocardiography Laboratory data compared with those 9 months prior to admission, suggest- WBC 8000 (/μL) ing secondary cardiomyopathy. Genetic testing to investigate Neutro 67.8 (%) secondary cardiomyopathy revealed an MT-TL1 gene m.3243 Lymph 21.3 (%) A > G mutation, which is a single base substitution from A Mono 5.3 (%) to G at position 3243 of the mitochondrial transfer RNA Hb 12.3 (g/dL) the kidney pathology findings. Due to the limited amount Plt 24.1 (104/μL) of medulla sampled, we could not confirm the presence of AST 17 (U/L) granular swollen epithelial cells (GSECs). Electron micros- ALT 13 (U/L) copy did not reveal any obvious morphological abnormali- LDH 189 (U/L) ties in the mitochondria. However, we observed abundant γ-GTP 22 (U/L) mitochondria in the distal tubules, which might
