CEN Case Reports (2025) 14:366–373
KEYWORDS: taurine, patient, mitochondrial, patients, physical, activity, supplementation, case, physical activity, initiation, levels, taurine supplementation, hemodialysis, nephropathy, kidney


Reports (2025) 14:366–373 371 35 patients with MD who underwent audiological assess- chondrial nephropathy presents significant challenges. While ment, 28 (80%) exhibited hearing loss or significant audi- GSECs are considered a characteristic finding of mito- affects multiple organs, with the severity and organ involve- present in less than one-third of diagnosed cases . tively affect sensorineural hearing in this case. MD typically light microscopy delayed a definitive diagnosis. Following follows a maternal inheritance pattern due to mutations in genetic diagnosis, a re-examination of the electron micro- mtDNA. Although the sudden sensorineural hearing loss of scopic findings revealed distal convoluted tubules rich in paternal grandmother is less likely relevant to her condition. ever, this diagnosis was challenging to establish without a it involves variability in clinical manifestations due to het- is approximately 6 years . These observations indicated eroplasmy, where normal and mutated mtDNA coexist, with that diagnosis solely based on renal pathology remains chal- the proportion of mutated mtDNA playing a crucial role in lenging. Similarly, Ochiai et al. reported difficulties in diag- heteroplasmy is one key determinant of disease severity and underlying causes of reduced left ventricular function . mutation can manifest as lethal pediatric Leigh syndrome a mean age of onset of 38 years . In the present case, when the heteroplasmy level is high, while it may lead to diabetes onset occurred after steroid therapy initiation, with milder phenotypes, such as diabetes or sensorineural hear- the patient’s glucose profile showing non-elevated fasting ing loss, in other cases. Therefore, even the same mutation blood glucose levels that increased throughout the evening. can result in distinct clinical outcomes depending on the This pattern initially led to a diagnosis of steroid-induced heteroplasmy level . diabetes. Although this was a possible phenotypic manifesta- podocyte function through the glomerular filtration barrier tiation of taurine supplementation, likely due to prednisone and tubular epithelial cell reabsorption. Kidney involvement tapering. However, considering the early onset of diabetes was present in 28 (35%) of the 80 genetically diagnosed (in the 30s) in this patient, early onset diabetes may serve patients with MD . In a Japanese registry comprising as a potential indicator for suspecting MD. These findings mitochondrial nephropathy . A comprehensive study ential diagnosis of young patients with progressive renal analyzing 63 kidney biopsy specimens from patients dysfunction, particularly when accompanied by multisys- with mitochondrial nephropathy associated with the tem involvement, such as atypical cardiac
