CEN Case Reports (2025) 14:366–373
KEYWORDS: taurine, patient, mitochondrial, patients, physical, activity, supplementation, case, physical activity, initiation, levels, taurine supplementation, hemodialysis, nephropathy, kidney


young patients with progressive renal analyzing 63 kidney biopsy specimens from patients dysfunction, particularly when accompanied by multisys- with mitochondrial nephropathy associated with the tem involvement, such as atypical cardiac dysfunction or m.3243A > G mutation revealed a wide spectrum of diabetes. histopathological findings in the glomerular lesions. FSGS Stroke-like episodes in patients with MD are associated was the predominant pattern observed in 47.7% of the cases. with taurine modification defects . Consequently, taurine Nephrosclerosis and diabetic nephropathy were identified supplementation has recently garnered significant attention in 11.4% and 15.9% of biopsies, respectively. At the time as a potential therapeutic approach for MDs. A case report of biopsy, the median urinary protein excretion was 1.38 indicated that taurine treatment slowed the decline in eGFR g/day, which was below the nephrotic range . The in a patient with mitochondrial nephropathy associated renal prognosis of mitochondrial nephropathy remains with MT-TL1 m.3243A > G mutation ; however, its poor because of the lack of effective treatments. In cases effectiveness across the diverse symptoms of MD remains of FSGS associated with the m.3243A > G mutation, the unclear. An observational study reported that patients with min/1.73 m 2 per year, with 50.8% of cases requiring RRT levels of fatigue, and lower quality of life . Similarly, over a median observation period of 11 years . As of our patient with MD caused by MT-TL1 mutations exhibited 2010, approximately 2.6 million people worldwide have diminished physical activity levels. Taurine administration been receiving RRT . Given the prevalence of MD and increased total physical activity levels but reduced the its poor renal prognosis, many undiagnosed cases probably number of headache episodes, as assessed using the IPAQ exist among patients undergoing RRT. . Although the exact mechanisms underlying the benefits of taurine supplementation are partly understood, they may 3 72 CEN Case Reports (2025) 14:366–373 involve the attenuation of exercise-induced oxidative stress. of 9 g/day was potentially suitable; however, we selected 6 In healthy males, taurine may attenuate exercise-induced g/day since the patient was on hemodialysis. We increased DNA damage and enhance the capacity for exercise . In the dose to 9 g/day as she did not experience any symptoms addition, a study on MELAS patient-derived cells showed related to taurine accumulation and had an episode of that taurine supplementation improved oxygen consumption epilepsy. Despite these potential therapeutic effects, and reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, highlighting the pharmacokinetics
