Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


ABSTRACT As improvements in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk reduction in adults’ plateau, and risk factors accumulate in youth, the focus is shifting to children as the future of ASCVD prevention. Abnormal lipid levels are relatively common in the pediatric population, and effective treatments are available, thereby supporting the need to screen children for abnormal lipids. Recent data suggest that lipid screening is performed among youth, but neither detects the expected proportion of affected individuals nor translates into higher rates of therapy. Future work should build upon current screening efforts to overcome identified barriers to lipid screening, aiming to prevent ASCVD events and maintain ideal ASCVD health throughout the life course. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Salutary trends in adult cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality are documented and appear to stem mainly from improvements in atherosclerotic risk factor treatment 1,2). But key danger signals are also present. First, the rate of improvement is waning. Second, and perhaps not coincidentally, recent advances focus on reducing thresholds for pharmacological risk factor management, thereby enlarging the proportion of the population eligible for therapy ( 3 , 4 ). Finally, alarming trends toward high and increasing obesity, obesity-related dyslipidemia, and type 2 diabetes portend an impending tidal wave of ASCVD ( 1 , 2 ). Recent data have demonstrated the first continuous decline in average life expectancy during peacetime in modern American history, with some of the decline attributed to increasing ASCVD in older age groups ( 5 ). Using trends of prevalence of ASCVD risk factors, it is predicted that the number of patients affected by ischemic heart disease and myocardial infarction will increase by over 30% as traditional risk factors amass, including a projected increase in dyslipidemia prevalence by 27.5% ( 6 ). This is particularly alarming, as population data from 1999-2016 demonstrated lipid abnormalities in one-fifth of children and one-fourth of teenagers ( 7 ). As progress is plateauing and efforts aim to medicate wider swaths of the adult population, children offer an opportunity in the life course to intensify ASCVD risk reduction. Childhood is a pivotal period for progress because children are already accumulating atherosclerotic phenotypic changes, have a high prevalence of ASCVD risk factors, and are susceptible to deleterious lifestyle influences, but are also malleable to lifestyle habit alterations. Typically, children have not yet suffered from clinical
