Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


a high prevalence of ASCVD risk factors, and are susceptible to deleterious lifestyle influences, but are also malleable to lifestyle habit alterations. Typically, children have not yet suffered from clinical ASCVD events, nor are they likely to in youth. As ASCVD primary prevention targets the first ASCVD event by addressing risk factors, secondary prevention aims to avert recurrent events in patients with a history of ASCVD, and primordial prevention aims to prevent or delay the development of ASCVD risk factors. Universal screening for pediatric lipid disorders remains controversial. The United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) has repeatedly stated that there is insufficient evidence to determine the benefits or harms of screening for abnormal lipids in childhood. In 2018, the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology Multisociety guidelines regarded universal screening in children as a level 2B (“may be reasonable” intervention based on level of evidence C (limited data) ( 8 , 9 ). A 2023 systematic review conducted by the USPSTF of 43 studies reports that, although multifactorial dyslipidemia affects up to 20% of children in the included studies, there is no long-term trial evidence of an effective treatment for atherosclerotic disease events ( 9 ). However, they also note observational evidence in familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), although far less common, indicates a role for statin treatment ( 9 ). Therefore, the USPSTF recommends that individual clinicians make decisions regarding testing ( 9 , 10 ). Nonetheless, professional groups, including the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Diabetes Association, and governmental entities, including the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), Department of Health and Human Services, have promulgated scientific statements and practice preferences identifying primordial and primary ASCVD prevention generally and dyslipidemia management specifically as a priority area ( 11 – 13 ). The 2011 NHLBI guidelines recommend universal lipid screening for the general population at age 9-11 years ( 11 ). The most recent American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines on ASCVD risk reduction in high-risk pediatric patients, including homozygous FH, type 1 and 2 diabetes, end-stage renal disease, Kawasaki disease with persistent aneurysms, solid organ transplant vasculopathy, and childhood cancer survivors, recommend non-fasting non-HDL screening yearly ( 14 ). Population-wide interventions can be highly effective, as illustrated by the significant reduction in cigarette use ( 2 ). Tobacco smoking reduction has been achieved through mobilizing public sentiment, imposing restrictions on the procurement, advertising, and use of tobacco
