Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


by the significant reduction in cigarette use ( 2 ). Tobacco smoking reduction has been achieved through mobilizing public sentiment, imposing restrictions on the procurement, advertising, and use of tobacco products, and employing economic disincentives. Similar efforts to reduce the causes of hyperlipidemia, hypertension, or obesity in adults meet entrenched resistance from the lack of data supporting second-hand harm from these lifestyle behaviors, leading to trepidation about restricting an individual’s freedom of personal choice. In contrast, addressing ASCVD risk factors in children may be more acceptable because caregivers appropriately constrain their lifestyle choices. For example, the fact that a child consistently chooses ice cream over cauliflower is immaterial to whether daily ice cream consumption in children should be discouraged. Therefore, focusing on children offers an opportunity to leverage an identified ASCVD risk factor to develop a multifaceted cardiometabolic intervention. Moreover, children are a decisive motivator of lifestyle changes in their parents, offering the promise of a multiplicative effect on pediatric interventions. But first, we must identify affected children. WHY IS PEDIATRIC LIPID SCREENING APPROPRIATE ? The passionate pediatric provider may be motivated to identify all ASCVD risk factors in every child to improve the population’s health, one individual at a time. But from a policy and implementation perspective, screening tests entail inevitable trade-offs that must be addressed. These pitfalls include the occurrence of false testing results that may be rare in any individual case but virtually guaranteed when mandatorily applied to many cases, the downstream effects of false test results in terms of additional confirmatory testing and patient emotional distress, test-related harms when instantiated widely, ethical conflicts between identifying sick individuals versus testing related physical and emotional harms to unaffected individuals, and lastly, cost-effectiveness concerns. Each of these is amplified when the patient is a developing, vulnerable child, for whom identifying risk factors has lasting implications; however, screening-related harms can also have lasting effects that ripple through the family. To be more specific, whereas adult providers find a patient’s blood draw to be trivial, violating bodily integrity is not as facile in children or for their parents, and therefore, providers are often more hesitant to order. Nonetheless, many diseases are screened for, including those detected through blood testing, during the highly vulnerable newborn period ( 15 ). State screening of newborns searches for disorders with prevalences on the order of 0.02% for sickle cell disease to 0.004% for phenylketonuria. Each
