Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


highly vulnerable newborn period ( 15 ). State screening of newborns searches for disorders with prevalences on the order of 0.02% for sickle cell disease to 0.004% for phenylketonuria. Each of the screened disorders has therapies of varying efficacy, depending on the disease. Decisions to screen for these diseases are, in part, determined by adherence to the World Health Organization Criteria for screening, as outlined in Wilson and Jungner’s classic formulation ( Table 1 ) ( 16 ). These classic criteria offer an excellent structure for a discussion of pediatric lipid screening. Table 1. Wilson & Jungner Criteria ( 16 ) View in own window 1. The condition sought should be an important health problem. 2. There should be an accepted treatment for patients with recognized disease. 3. Facilities for diagnosis and treatment should be available. 4. There should be a recognizable latent or early symptomatic stage. 5. There should be a suitable test or examination. 6. The test should be acceptable to the population. 7. The natural history of the condition, including development from latent to declared disease, should be adequately understood. 8. There should be an agreed policy on whom to treat as patients. 9. The cost of case-finding (including diagnosis and treatment of patients diagnosed) should be economically balanced in relation to possible expenditure on medical care. 10. Case-finding should be a continuing process and not a “once and for all” project. NATURAL HISTORY, LATENCY, AND IMPORTANCE In general, the relationship between lipid disorders and ASCVD events is well established. The causal relation between low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) and ASCVD events is well established ( 17 – 22 ). Interventions targeting triglycerides (TG) have not been as successful; however, observational studies using genetic analyses have shown a prospective, unconfounded association between TG and ASCVD events, demonstrating the capacity of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins to influence atherogenesis ( 23 – 25 ). Interestingly, a recent observational study found that among patients with childhood non-HDL cholesterol elevation that resolved by adulthood, there was no difference in ASCVD risk compared with those who never had such an elevation ( 26 ). High-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) is inversely associated with incident ASCVD in observational cohorts. Still, multiple HDL-specific interventions have not reduced ASCVD events, casting doubt on the protective HDL hypothesis ( 21 , 27 – 29 ). In addition, Mendelian randomization does not reveal a causal relationship between HDL and ASCVD; ongoing
