Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


events, casting doubt on the protective HDL hypothesis ( 21 , 27 – 29 ). In addition, Mendelian randomization does not reveal a causal relationship between HDL and ASCVD; ongoing investigations aim to describe HDL function and its optimization as a therapeutic target, rather than focusing on its quantity ( 30 ). In children, the relationship between lipid disorders and ASCVD events is well studied in the Mendelian genetic disorder FH, which is classically attributed to a dominant-negative mutation in the LDLR, ApoB, or PCSK9 genes ( 18 , 31 ). Heterozygous FH occurs in 1 in 500 births, while more recent studies suggest it may be as common as 1 in 250. Homozygous FH may be as common as 1 in 160,000 to 1 million ( 32 , 33 ). Recent observational data indicate that FH-level LDL (>190 mg/dL) occurs in 0.2% to 0.4% of children, according to a meta-analysis of 395,465 patients ( 11 ). FH is associated with markedly elevated LDL levels. Heterozygous girls suffer coronary events before age 60 in approximately 20% of cases, and boys in 50% of cases, while children with homozygosity have events as early as the second decade of life ( 33 – 36 ). Before these events, these children are well documented to have vascular changes predictive of future ASCVD events ( 37 ). Interestingly, a recent study using dried newborn blood spots demonstrated the feasibility of testing for total cholesterol, LDL, and apolipoprotein B, as well as evaluating eight of the most common genes associated with FH ( 38 ). This evaluation found a prevalence of FH of 1 in 625 samples ( 38 ). Even more common is lifestyle-related high TG, low HDL atherogenic dyslipidemia, which is present in nearly one in five youth under 17 years old ( 39 , 40 ). Data from young adults in the ASCVD-free general population who have suffered unfortunate mortality from unrelated causes clearly demonstrate arterial atherosclerotic plaques, and these plaques are predicted by elevated lipid levels earlier in life ( 41 – 43 ). Increased lipids are associated with thicker carotid intimal-medial thickness (CIMT), stiffer aortae, and other preclinical atherosclerotic changes in ASCVD-unaffected individuals ( 37 , 44 – 47 ). More recent data combining multiple youth cohorts into a single meta-cohort that follow through adulthood clearly demonstrate that childhood lipids directly predict clinically definitive adult CVD events ( 48 ).
