Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


More recent data combining multiple youth cohorts into a single meta-cohort that follow through adulthood clearly demonstrate that childhood lipids directly predict clinically definitive adult CVD events ( 48 ). In addition, contemporary evidence evaluating ambulatory medical records from 2022 to 2023 describes a sample of 3,226,002 children and adolescents, of whom 11.3% were screened for lipid measurements ( 49 ). Of these, 30.2% had abnormal lipids ( 49 ). However, given this prevalence, there is likely selection bias, as the indication for screening is unclear. Lipoprotein(a) is a genetically determined risk factor for ASCVD through pathways of inflammation, atherogenesis, and thrombosis ( 50 , 51 ). It is estimated that up to 20% of the population has elevated lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) ( 51 ). Although first described in 1963, recent international guidelines for universal screening have renewed interest in the pathophysiology of lipoprotein(a) and pharmaceutical targets ( 50 ). Lipoprotein(a) concentrations do not vary significantly over the life course, reaching adult levels within the first two years of life ( 50 ). Though investigations in children are limited, recent evidence suggests that Lp(a) is not associated with body mass index but is positively associated with LDL concentrations ( 52 ). Further, elevated levels have been associated with an increased risk of stroke in children and adolescents ( 53 ). Intriguing data also reveal that childhood Lp(a) concentrations predict adult CVD events, including when combined with other ASCVD risk factors such as other lipids ( 54 ). At this time, there are no specific medications for lipoprotein(a), aside from modulating other risk factors to reduce overall ASCVD risk ( 50 ). However, investigations for targeted therapies are ongoing. However, the justification for screening for Lp(a) is challenging, given that it is not modifiable at this time and is not generally screened for in children without known hyperlipidemia. Thus, severe lipid abnormalities occur in youth; these dyslipidemias and hyperlipidemias have significant consequences, following a predictable pattern from lipid elevation to atherosclerotic progression and, eventually, ASCVD events, and are orders of magnitude more common than metabolic conditions that are already universally screened for. ACCURATE , SUITABLE, FACILE, AND REPEATABLE TESTING Blood testing is the definitive, straightforward method for detecting lipid abnormalities, with a false-positive rate of less than 1%. Classic practice is to obtain fasting lipid panels as the ideal, especially for detecting triglyceride elevations ( 11 , 36 , 55 ). However,
