Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


false-positive rate of less than 1%. Classic practice is to obtain fasting lipid panels as the ideal, especially for detecting triglyceride elevations ( 11 , 36 , 55 ). However, obtaining fasting lipid levels in children can be challenging; therefore, non-fasting lipid panels may be obtained initially, with fasting panels obtained as necessary to confirm results and improve acceptability ( 11 ). In addition, life-course issues are a core concern in the assessment of children’s lipids. While prenatal and perinatal detection of dyslipidemia is noted, infancy and young childhood are a notoriously difficult period for dyslipidemia assessment due to wildly varied diet habits and food preferences during a child’s introduction and embrace of solid food intake. Toddlers frequently habituate to a minimal dietary range, which they broaden a few years later. Nutritional habits and lipid levels tend to stabilize during early school age, until around 10 years of age, when pubertal changes increase variability. Hormonal changes during puberty are associated with substantial alterations in lipid levels ( 11 , 34 , 55 , 56 ). Thus, children could be inappropriately labeled as “abnormal” based on lipid tests, as ASCVD risk factors fluctuate throughout childhood and adulthood ( 57 ). The NHLBI Integrated Guidelines for CVD Risk Reduction in Children and Adolescents recommend averaging multiple lipid values to reduce misclassification and regression-to-the-mean bias ( 11 ). As in adults, single lipid measurements in childhood predict adult atherosclerotic progression, underscoring the utility of a single lipid test ( 41 – 45 ). Physical exam findings can prompt lipid testing. For example, the presence of tendinous xanthomata on extensor surfaces in young children should trigger lipid investigation for FH or other lipid disorders ( 11 , 57 ). Similarly, many providers recognize a higher relative risk of lipid abnormalities in individuals who are overnourished. Overweight youth are known to have roughly double the risk of lipid problems, while obese children have approximately three times the risk ( 39 , 39 , 58 ). However, nearly 10% of normal-weight individuals have abnormal lipid levels. While it is true that overnourished individuals are at higher risk of abnormal lipids, the converse is also true: a substantial proportion of youth with abnormal lipids are of normal weight. In fact, since nearly 35-45% of youth with abnormal lipids are of normal weight, focusing on excess weight in youth misses a substantial proportion of the population with lipid
