Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


that requires drug therapy (BP> 99 th percentile 5 mm Hg), Current cigarette smoker, Body Mass Index at the 97 th age-sex specific percentile High risk conditions: Diabetes mellitus Type 1 or Type 2, Chronic kidney disease, end-stage renal disease, post–renal transplant, post–orthotopic heart transplant, Kawasaki disease with current aneurysms Moderate risk factors: Hypertension that does not require drug therapy, Body Mass Index between 95 th percentile and 97 th percentile, HDL< 40 mg/dL Moderate risk conditions: Kawasaki disease with regressed coronary aneurysms, chronic inflammatory disease (systemic lupus erythematosus, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis), HIV infection, nephrotic syndrome Guidelines recommend using relatively high thresholds to define abnormal levels and using the mean of multiple lipid values to reduce misclassification and regression to the mean. The NHLBI guidelines reflect the age-specific distribution of lipid levels and mirror the acceptable lipid value category groupings of the Adult Treatment Panel III/National Cholesterol Education Program (Table 3). The key CARDIAC study assessed selective versus universal lipid screening in a general population of more than 20,000 5 th graders in West Virginia. Of these, more than 70% met NCEP guidelines for selective lipid screening ( 60 ). Of those with mildly elevated LDL over 130mg/dL, NCEP guideline-based testing did not capture 30% of cases. Among those with LDL>160 mg/dL, the NCEP guidelines missed 37% of affected children. Therefore, universal lipid screening has been increasingly embraced, as it identifies children with either modest or more pronounced elevations in LDL-C, compared with selective screening. Universal screening becomes an attractive method to detect both genetic and lifestyle-related dyslipidemias when considering parental lack of understanding about lipid levels, the ability of lipid-lowering medications to prevent ASCVD events and treat lipid levels in affected parents, or a parent’s refusal to examine their own cholesterol levels, hindering screening programs contingent on other exigencies ( 61 – 64 ). The NHLBI guidelines refine the universal screening to apply in age strata around age 10, primarily to detect genetic dyslipidemias, and around age 18, when patient-driven lifestyle habits have been established, and modifications can still occur just before the transition to full adult independence. On balance, lipid disorders appear to be accurately assessed by a simple investigation that can be repeated multiple times. For this reason, many single-center quality improvement initiatives have aimed to improve lipid screening in children across the United States ( 65 – 67 ). View in own window Table 3 .
