Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


trials of statin therapy compared to meta-analyzed LDL-lowering genetic mutations on ASCVD events ( 72 ). ASCVD prevention per-unit decrease in LDL was several-fold more effective with genetic polymorphism than with pharmacologic intervention. The implication was that the degree of LDL lowering was synergistically enhanced by the duration spent at a reduced LDL concentration ( 20 , 73 ). Another recent study comparing cholesterol levels across adulthood found that LDL reduction later in life was associated with worse outcomes than earlier in the life course ( 74 ). Further, observational data abounds on the safety and efficacy of pharmacologic LDL-lowering in hyperlipidemia. However, emerging evidence from large adult trials, including an aggregate sample of over 120,000 patients, identifies a dose-dependent increase in glycemia in patients on statins, with a risk ratio for worsening glycemia of 1.10 for low or moderate intensity and 1.24 for high intensity relative to placebo, in a median follow-up of 4.9 years ( 75 ). In children, this relationship is less clear. The risk of new onset type 2 diabetes in children on statins is approximately 0.2% per year ( 76 , 77 ). Although this value is small, the accumulation of risk over a lifetime of statin therapy necessitates an evaluation of the risk-benefit profile before initiation. In a 20-year follow-up, only 0.5% of children receiving statins developed diabetes compared to 2.6% of unaffected, untreated siblings( 69 ). Interestingly, though the mechanism has not been thoroughly explored, in adults with FH, of whom 39.3% were treated with statins, the incidence of type 2 diabetes was lower than in other hyperlipidemia phenotypes ( 78 ). However, only 39.3% of patients with FH were receiving statin therapy. Though other side effects have been reported, namely liver toxicity and myalgias, high-quality evidence in the form of numerous RCTs, meta-analyses, and Cochrane reviews has demonstrated safety in children in short-, medium-, and long-term follow-up ( 77 ). With respect to dietary modification in patients with elevated LDL-C, a key pediatric study was the Dietary Intervention Study in Children, which delivered a low total fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol message to 7- to 10-year-olds with elevated LDL-C. The trial successfully lowered LDL by roughly 10% from baseline ( 79 ). The STRIP trial provided similar messaging to the infant age group, with comparable long-term outcomes and no safety concerns through early childhood ( 80 ). More recently, a meta-analysis of
