Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


The STRIP trial provided similar messaging to the infant age group, with comparable long-term outcomes and no safety concerns through early childhood ( 80 ). More recently, a meta-analysis of 577 patients found that adherence to the Mediterranean diet in children and adolescents was associated with reductions in TG, total cholesterol, and LDL, and an increase in HDL ( 81 ). While meta-analytic data from adults suggest that alterations in dietary quality are not associated with an elevated risk of ASCVD events, broad-based adult cohort studies are not appropriately applied to subpopulations presenting early in life with markedly abnormal lipid values ( 17 ). In addition, the NHLBI guidelines pursue primordial prevention by recommending a widely accepted, sensible diet for all children that moderates simple carbohydrates, processed foods, and saturated fat, while encouraging vegetables and lean proteins. Data on pharmacological or lifestyle modifications in youth that reduce ASCVD events in adulthood are currently unavailable. They are unlikely to be forthcoming, given the logistical complexity and cost of conducting clinical trials that assess ASCVD events in large numbers of children over several decades. In the absence of decades-long trials, the previously quoted data on life-course cholesterol levels remain relevant. In addition, anthropological epidemiology demonstrates lower rates of ASCVD in populations with habitually low cholesterol levels ( 20 ). It is also essential to consider the rate of incident type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in patients using statin medications. Recent evaluations do not demonstrate an increased likelihood of incident T2DM in children on statins with heterozygous FH ( 76 ). Furthermore, the effects of statins on T2DM risk are heterogeneous: in adults, statins increase T2DM incidence among those already at increased baseline risk of T2DM ( 82 ). Similar data exists in youth on statin therapy being associated with higher diabetes risk ( 76 ). Additionally, evidence suggests that people with FH have a lower incidence of T2DM than their unaffected relatives, suggesting a protective effect conferred by the relationship between the LDL receptor-mediated transmembrane cholesterol transporter and glucose metabolism ( 83 ). This is particularly relevant, as in adult cohort studies, among nearly 1400 patients with LDL>190 mg/dL, fewer than 2% had an identified genetic mutation known to be associated with FH ( 31 ). However, those without FH mutations with this degree of hypercholesterolemia had an odds ratio of 6.0 for the development of coronary artery disease, and those within
