Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


FH ( 31 ). However, those without FH mutations with this degree of hypercholesterolemia had an odds ratio of 6.0 for the development of coronary artery disease, and those within this stratum with an FH-associated mutation had an odds ratio of 22.3 ( 31 ). Thus, it may be informative to model children as genotype-only, phenotype-only, or both genotype- and phenotype-positive. Inferences from lifestyle and pharmacotherapy challenge the common criticism that youth are not an appropriate population for lipid management. The epidemiology of hyperlipidemia also supports early screening, as levels measured between ages 9 and 11 mirror those observed in early adulthood and are more sensitive to detecting severe elevations, consistent with a genetic etiology ( 84 , 85 ). Indeed, consistent with the “fair chance” principle of bioethics applied to youth, data, however limited, suggest that youth are worthy of respect as persons, and the health conditions they face warrant examination and intervention. For the highly prevalent, high TG-low HDL so-called atherogenic dyslipidemia, the primary treatment has been lifestyle modification, with a focus on weight management ( 86 – 90 ). Studies have reported consistent associations between weight loss and improvements in TG and HDL that may persist for up to 5 years. Other data suggest that changes in dietary quality, toward lower carbohydrate intake, may be effective in reducing TG and improving HDL. Some publications detail the dominant role of dietary quality recommendations without weight loss, documenting a roughly one-third reduction in TG ( 91 ). Therefore, targeted dietary modifications can improve abnormal lipid profiles without immediately affecting weight. These dyslipidemia-specific dietary modifications are effective but onerous for families and thus should not be applied to the entire population. When motivated to avoid medication, youth and families may become more engaged. ACCEPTABILITY Focusing on children ratifies their status as individuals worthy of care, independent of their parents. Intentional concentration on them may also boost identification of dyslipidemic family members in a reverse cascade. Pediatric lipid screening, particularly universal screening, is controversial despite demonstrated failures of selective screening and examination-based screening ( 92 – 94 ). First, a small number will likely be misclassified as abnormal lipids because of fluctuating levels during childhood. Second, since obesity increases the risk of abnormal lipid values, objections arise about classifying a multitude of children already psychologically vulnerable from an “abnormal” weight label, with an “abnormal” cholesterol label. Adding to the problems of
