Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


of abnormal lipid values, objections arise about classifying a multitude of children already psychologically vulnerable from an “abnormal” weight label, with an “abnormal” cholesterol label. Adding to the problems of these already sensitive youth further demoralizes the child. All providers are concerned about pediatric patients with lipid disorders being prescribed statins too liberally. The NHLBI panel mandates lifestyle alterations as the primary response, but there is skepticism ( 94 ). A survey of US pediatricians in 2013-2014 showed that only 26% were well informed about the 2011 NHLBI guidelines, and 68% never or rarely screen healthy 9 to 11-year-olds. Instead, most providers screened based on family history of ASCVD or obesity. Most surprisingly, 62% and 89% believe that statins are appropriate for children and adolescents with LDL levels that are refractory to lifestyle modification, but only 8% and 21% have initiated statins ( 95 ). Conflicting recommendations in existing guidelines compound variability in screening rates. An evaluation of lipid screening rates among pediatricians and family medicine physicians found that screening rates in children increased following the 2011 NHLBI universal screening recommendation but decreased among both provider types following the 2016 AHA/ACC guideline ( 96 ). Unsurprisingly, patients of providers who are more likely to prescribe testing are therefore more likely to be tested ( 97 ). Additional supportive data arise from cost-effectiveness modeling. Identifying and treating patients with FH yields costs of approximately $7,000 per quality-adjusted life year, which generally falls within the willingness-to-pay thresholds of virtually all high-per-capita-income and many middle-per-capita-income nations ( 98 ). Although the additional costs of universal screening are not known, the benefits of earlier ASCVD prevention in high-risk individuals would be considerable, as would cost savings ( 99 ). A recent evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of screening for hypercholesterolemia in childhood and early adulthood found that universal youth lipid screening with reflex genetic screening triggered by phenotypic FH is not cost-effective compared to opportunistic lipid testing and usual care ( 100 ). When considering the Wilson and Jungner criteria for screening, though the cost of identification should be “economically balanced” relative to the cost of subsequent medical care, cost-effectiveness is not generally regarded as a classical criterion for the efficacy of a screening test ( 16 , 101 ). Further, federal statute prohibits using cost-effectiveness with societal thresholds of willingness-to-pay in medical payer coverage of diagnostic tools and therapeutics ( 102 ). This study
