Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


( 16 , 101 ). Further, federal statute prohibits using cost-effectiveness with societal thresholds of willingness-to-pay in medical payer coverage of diagnostic tools and therapeutics ( 102 ). This study serves as an interesting modeling exercise in the absence of a decades-long randomized controlled trial, which, as noted by the authors, is not feasible ( 100 ). However, the model has several aspects that do not reflect the most recently available data. The baseline low-density lipoprotein (LDL) in the simulated FH group was 133.4 mg/dL ( 100 ). In comparison, the American Heart Association suggests an LDL of greater than 160 mg/dL as a clinical criterion for the diagnosis of heterozygous FH in children ( 103 ). Furthermore, the use of general-population cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors, derived from multiple national sources in this model, does not accurately reflect the risk profile of individuals with FH. It is known that untreated patients with FH have a CVD-free survival of less than 80% in a 20-year follow-up ( 104 ). In contrast, this model predicts a cumulative incidence of coronary artery disease of just over 15% at 20 years ( 100 ). In addition, the model underestimates the impact of lifestyle therapy, utilizing a reduction of 2.1 mg/dL in LDL ( 100 ). The Dietary Intervention Study in Children (DISC) trial demonstrated the efficacy of lifestyle modification, with reductions of 4.8 mg/dL at one year following intervention and 3.3 mg/dL at three years, though the impact reduced to 2.0 mg/dL over a median follow-up period of 7.4 years ( 105 ). Another cohort of children with a median baseline LDL of 239 mg/dL exhibited a 15% reduction over a 231-day follow-up period ( 106 ). Thus, the potential for lifestyle modification as a therapeutic intervention is grossly underestimated, particularly for patients with the highest levels of LDL. Barriers to screening include the availability of health insurance and access to a healthcare provider. Family financial status, gender, or other health outcomes do not seem to affect the likelihood of participating in lipid screening ( 60 ). Evidence derived from an electronic health record database study of over three million children and adolescents suggests that Black and Asian patients are more likely to be screened than non-Hispanic White children. At the same time, those identified as Hispanic and “Other” did not have statistically significant differences from the White population ( 49 ). However,
