Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


be screened than non-Hispanic White children. At the same time, those identified as Hispanic and “Other” did not have statistically significant differences from the White population ( 49 ). However, understanding the “Other” sample is difficult because aggregating patients of various races and ethnicities —including American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and other populations —limits generalizability ( 49 ). This same study found that screening prevalence increased with age and BMI ( 49 ). An equity lens is also critical in treating children with lipid disorders. It is well established that social factors affect ASCVD risk. A retrospective evaluation using aggregated data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey found that non-Hispanic White children had favorable social determinants of health scores relative to Mexican American and non-Hispanic Black children ( 107 ). Though not consistent across ethnic groups, there was a general protective trend, with better social determinants scores associated with better cardiovascular health scores ( 107 ). Recent evidence suggests that children referred to Preventive Cardiology for evaluation of ASCVD risk factors had a higher prevalence of food insecurity, transportation-related barriers to accessing care, and problems obtaining utilities than children seen in Electrophysiology or General Cardiology clinics ( 108 ). Parents appear to find lipid screening acceptable ( 109 ). However, these opinions may be changing. A recent evaluation of 91 parents found that only 45.5% agreed that universal screening should be performed in all children, whereas 30.8% disagreed ( 110 ). In previous cascade screening programs for life-threatening FH in which an index case leads to screening of first-degree relatives, the prevalence of FH detected did not increase, perhaps because over 90% of parents wanted possibly affected children to be screened, but also wanted child testing to be done at home ( 36 , 98 , 111 , 112 ). This preference has implications for lipid management logistics and inferences about parents’ preferences regarding minor children. A survey of African American families found that most mothers of older children favored cholesterol screening. Still, the majority of children with abnormal lipid levels did not return for follow-up due to doubts about test accuracy and the child’s anxiety or discomfort ( 113 ). Exacerbating complicated parental attitudes are conflicted provider attitudes. Roughly three out of four providers believed future ASCVD risk could be prevented through pediatric lipid screening and treatment. However, large majorities reported limited familiarity
