Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


attitudes are conflicted provider attitudes. Roughly three out of four providers believed future ASCVD risk could be prevented through pediatric lipid screening and treatment. However, large majorities reported limited familiarity with pediatric lipid management, while fewer than one-quarter would refer children to pediatric lipid specialists ( 114 , 115 ). Thus, lipid testing appears to be widely acceptable to families and providers, but it is associated with complex barriers to implementation. EFFECTIVENESS AND SIDE EFFECTS OF SELECTIVE SCREENING Since lipid screening in children appears to meet all WHO screening criteria, it would be beneficial to understand the benefits of screening. Following the results of the CARDIAC study, recent data details the era of selective screening up to the NHLBI guidelines of late 2011 (116–118). The first such study in the modern era showed that lipid testing rates in a geographically dispersed managed healthcare system network from 2002 to 2012 decreased ( 116 ). The proportion detected with severe FH-level LDL elevation increased over time. Still, the yearly detection rate and cumulative incidence of those identified were far below the expected proportion of the cohort with FH. Among those tested each year, the proportion detected with moderately high LDL elevation or low HDL increased 5- to 9-fold, at a time when nationally representative data on the general pediatric population indicated that HDL levels had risen and LDL levels had declined. Increased detection of low HDL-C and declining cohort mean HDL-C level led to an inference that providers were selectively testing youth with a higher risk of having lifestyle dyslipidemia. Among those tested, the proportion with FH-level LDL was more than double the classic FH prevalence, suggesting that providers may also have been selectively screening youth at high risk for genetic dyslipidemia. A separate study of three other managed care populations showed screening proportions that were roughly similar over the 3 years from 2007 to 2010, after accounting for cohort exclusions ( 118 ). Further, though overnutrition increases in prevalence in the United States, dyslipidemia prevalence decreases. Importantly, though excess weight increases the risk of lipid disorders, 26-63% of youth with abnormal lipids are of normal weight, furthering the rationale for a universal screening approach ( 59 ). In contrast, a study from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) database revealed an increasing trend in lipid testing, albeit with rates substantially lower than the overall rates ( 117 ). The discrepancy
