Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) database revealed an increasing trend in lipid testing, albeit with rates substantially lower than the overall rates ( 117 ). The discrepancy may be related to NAMCS being composed of a national probability sample of physician self-reported data of outpatient encounters over one week. Using this approach, NAMCS data indicate that lipid testing is underreported by approximately 50% among adult patients ( 119 ). Moreover, the pediatric report included testing only during well-child visits, not during subspecialty visits, where high-risk youth may be more likely to undergo testing and treatment ( 120 ). Several studies have examined screening after the publication of the 2011 NHLBI guidelines. Overall screening rates remain low; however, one study of patients in an ambulatory pediatric clinic reported an increase from 17.1% to 20.1% after 2011 ( 121 ). Other similar studies demonstrate no difference in screening patterns ( 122 ). Another study reviewed records from two pediatric clinics demonstrating only 27% adherence to the universal screening guidelines ( 123 ). With dismal screening rates, many centers have implemented quality improvement initiatives to increase screening. Peterson et al. retrospectively reviewed charts from a general pediatric practice before and after guideline implementation, education initiatives, and EHR alerts, demonstrating an increase in screening frequency from 8.9% to 50% by the end of the study period ( 124 ). In a similar retrospective chart review, an EHR prompt was created that required physicians to choose which lipid screening test was ordered or document why lipid screening was not performed. Lipid testing was also included in the 9-, 10-, and 11-year well-child check order sets. With these efforts, along with monthly QI team data presentations, the authors demonstrated a 64% increase in screening ( 125 ). In an alternative approach, a feasibility study on child-parent screening suggests testing at a well-child visit, particularly one during which immunizations will be administered, as parents are primed for disease prevention ( 66 , 67 , 126 , 127 ). Lipid screening does not necessarily lead to optimal outcomes. As noted, previous European data suggest that a cascade screening approach did not substantially increase the prevalence of detected FH. In the CARDIAC universal screening study, parent telephone interviews were conducted between four and six weeks after screening. Only 40% of 342 respondents with at-risk children had made changes to their children’s diets in the immediate follow-up
