Lipid Screening in Youth
KEYWORDS: screening, pubmed, lipid, children, risk, free, pmc, pmc free, article pubmed, article, free article, ascvd, cholesterol, disease, cardiovascular


telephone interviews were conducted between four and six weeks after screening. Only 40% of 342 respondents with at-risk children had made changes to their children’s diets in the immediate follow-up period, and only 34% had modified physical activity ( 109 ). Data from the managed care network study showed that, despite increased detection of severe dyslipidemia, the use of pharmacotherapy had not increased ( 116 ). The annual rate of newly detected FH-level LDL dwarfed the rate of pharmacotherapy initiation, indicating that screening for lipid abnormalities is not a panacea for improving lipid management. Finally, the International Childhood Cardiovascular Cohort Consortium found that incorporating lipid screening and clinical risk factor assessment significantly improved the prediction of adult CIMT ( 128 ). CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS Pediatric lipid testing appears to meet multiple criteria, making it a worthy candidate for wide screening. It is acceptable, accurate, repeatable, and testing is widely available. The natural history of lipid disorders is well understood, and childhood is a clear period of mounting severity, but still latent and modifiable through acceptable therapies, including lifestyle modification and simple pharmacotherapy. Accumulated data suggest that selective screening is ineffective at detecting relevant cases and translating into robust therapies, lending support to universal screening programs. A universal approach also promotes health equity for children who may not raise sufficient clinical suspicion to warrant selective testing, as well as for those with infrequent access to healthcare. Further, a universal approach assures testing of all children, including those from historically marginalized populations. However, several aspects warrant attention and future study in the pursuit of lipid testing in youth. The CARDIAC study investigators have identified several factors that enhance the effectiveness of universal screening. Informational materials that manage expectations about what occurs on screening day, the risk factors assessed in the program, and follow-up after screening are useful. Another paramount task is the effective processing of screening results and facilitating referrals to treatment facilities, which requires cooperation among local hospitals, laboratories, and testing sites. Testing programs can be used to discuss primordial and primary prevention at testing sites or other locations where relevant children and families are gathered. Lipid results can also be integrated into a broader health screening report that includes not only other assessment results but also broadly applicable treatment recommendations. Integrating these previously documented features into ongoing or future programs would be highly useful, as they may be cost-effective
