EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: vulnificus, patient, infection, vibrio, bee, doi, figure, case, vibrio vulnificus, freshwater, water, sting, bee sting, vulnificus infection, treatment


2021,VOL.10 Vibrio vulnificus infection attributed to bee sting: a case report Jie-Heng Liang, Wen-Huan Liang, Yun-Qi Deng, Zhi-Gang Fu, Jun-Li Deng and Yong-Hua Chen TheSeventhPeople’sHospitalofNanhai,Foshan,Guangdong,People’sRepublicofChina ABSTRACT Vibrio vulnificus is a pathogenic marine bacteria associated with high mortality. Changes in climate and the global seafood trade have increased the prevalence of marine and freshwater systems affected by V. vulnificus. As a result, theincidence ofland animals, plants, andinsectscontacting V. vulnificus andacting asdisease vectors is onthe rise. Wereportthecase ofa53-year-oldmalewhowasinfectedwithV.vulnificusastheresultofabeesting.Thepatient had no history of contact with the sea or fresh water or aquatic organisms or products. Due to bacterial pathogenicity and the patient’s underlying diseases, his condition deteriorated rapidly and eventually resulted in death. Here, we review the pathogenic mechanisms and treatment of V. vulnificus. We determined that V. vulnificus hasspreadfromseawatertofreshwaterandthatindividualsmaybecomeinfected frominsects,evenintheabsence ofdirectcontactwithinfectedwater.ThiscasereportwillinformcliniciansaboutthepossiblesourcesofV.vulnificus infectionandindicatesthepossibilitythatmoreinsectsmaytransmitV.vulnificusinthefuture. ARTICLEHISTORY Received27May2021;Revised27August2021;Accepted2September2021 KEYWORDS Vibriovulnificus;beesting;infection;insect-bornetransmission;Sepsis Background increasinglyunclearexposureriskfactorshavecaused difficulties in its early diagnosis and treatment. Vibriovulnificusisamarinepathogenassociatedwith highmortality.Theprimaryclinicalmanifestationsof V. vulnificus infection include acute fever, chills, hae- morrhagic bullous lesions, and septic shock. Severe Case report cases of V. vulnificus infection can quickly lead to A 53-year-old male was admitted to Seventh People’s death. Even in the United States, the mortality of V. vulnificus infection is as high as 50%, according with fever afterbeing stung by a beethe previous day. to the FDA . Patient prognosis largely depends on He was a freight driver and was stung by a bee while earlydiagnosisandtreatment.Diseasecanoccuraslit- tryingtopickaGanodermalucidumonatripthrough tle as 4h after ingestion or exposure to V. vulnificus, Huadu.Hewasquestionedtoassesshisrecentexposure andthemortalityrateofpatientswithoutpropertreat- to possible infective agents and denied transport or ment within three days can reach 100% . exposure to aquatic products, oceans, lakes, etc. His V.vulnificusisahalophilicandthermophilicbacteria; medical history included hepatitis B cirrhosis, when the water temperatures exceed 18°C, hyperthyroidism, chronic gastritis, and renal calculi. V. vulnificus propagationincreases, with an optimum His highest recorded body temperature was 39.8°C, growthtemperatureof26°C.Asaresultofincreas- and it was accompanied by chills, vomiting, and diar- ingseasurfacetemperaturesdrivenbyclimatechange, rhoea. Physical examination revealed swelling of the the endemic area of V. vulnificus is expanding leftlowerlimbsandawoundfromabeestingwithout annually . Additionally, the increase of seafood blistersorulcers.Preliminarybloodtests(26September aquaculture and global seafood trade has resulted in 2020 noon and afternoon) revealed significantly elev- increasing reports of V. vulnificus in freshwater ated procalcitonin (PCT), creatine kinase (CK), and environments [5–7]. As V. vulnificus colonizes fresh- CK-MB; significantly decreased platelet count (PLT), water environments, the possibility of terrestrial ani- and gradually increasing blood urea nitrogen (BUN) mals, plants, and insects being exposed to and serum creatinine (Cr) (Figure
