EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: vulnificus, patient, infection, vibrio, bee, doi, figure, case, vibrio vulnificus, freshwater, water, sting, bee sting, vulnificus infection, treatment


tered below the knee joint (Figure 4(A)). Moreover, 1(A,B), 27 September 2020). The results of blood gas ecchymosis also appeared in the right lower limb analysisatdifferentperiodsalsoindicateddiseasepro- (Figure 4(C)), and the pulsation of the dorsalis pedis gressionandfurtherdeteriorationofthepatient’scon- arteries of both lower limbs was weakened. However, dition. The accumulation of lactate particularly the patient’s vital signs remained stable: his tempera- indicated a very poor prognosis. (Figure 1(C)). The piration, 20breaths/min; heart rate, 112bpm; and shock, diffuse intravascular haemolysis, multiple SpO , 98%. Three hours later, the patient developed organ dysfunction syndrome, and bee sting. During shortness of breath and lost consciousness. At this rescue treatment, mechanical ventilation was time, the following vital signs were observed: blood implementedtoimprovetheventilationofthepatient, pressure, 80/50mmHg; respiration, 30breaths/min; low molecular weight heparin was administered for heart rate, 122beats/min; and SpO , 98%. Physical anticoagulation, norepinephrine was administered to examination revealed that the patient’s skin was cold maintain blood pressure, and plasma and fluid resus- and wet. Swelling, ecchymosis, and blistering of the citation were infused. However, the patient’s Figure4.Changesinthephysicalsignsofthepatient.Cyanosis,multipleblisters,andecchymosisaroundthestingwound(A). Cyanosis, multiple blisters, and ecchymosis spread to the left thigh (B). Similar cyanosis, multiple blisters, and ecchymosis appearedontherightlowerlimb(CandD). EmergingMicrobes&Infections 1893 Figure5.ColourDopplerultrasoundimage:Deepveinblockageinleftlowerlimb. condition continued to deteriorate, and he eventually established, the patient should be treated with third- died,fewerthantwodaysfollowingadmission.Afew generation cephalosporins and quinolones for 7–10 days later, the laboratory cultured V. vulnificus from days . blood samples of the patient (Figure 6). Discussion and conclusion Literature review Since both the patient and his family denied any his- V. vulnificus is a halophilic, marine, Gram-negative tory of contact with seawater, freshwater, or marine bacteriathatprimarilyinhabitsmarineenvironments. organisms, and the patient only had an acute history Becauseofitshighpathogenicityandmortality,ithas of bee sting, the early diagnosis was misjudged as become the leading cause of death related to seafood bee sting poisoning and allergies. However, through consumption in the United States. In China, most theresultsofpost-mortembloodculturesandareview cases of V. vulnificus infection are reported in the of the patient’s condition, infection of V. vulnificus southeast coastal areas . The high pathogenicity was evident. Humans infected with V. vulnificus gen- and lethality of V. vulnificus infection is due to the erally have exposure histories to water systems or presenceofcytolysin,metalloproteinase,andcapsular aquatic products. We have repeatedly confirmed the polysaccharides.Together,thesevirulencefactorstrig- relevant exposure history with the patient and his ger an immune response. Iron overload was a high- family, but they always gave a denial reply. These risk factor in this patient, who had a history of
