EmergingMicrobes&Infections
KEYWORDS: vulnificus, patient, infection, vibrio, bee, doi, figure, case, vibrio vulnificus, freshwater, water, sting, bee sting, vulnificus infection, treatment


and his ger an immune response. Iron overload was a high- family, but they always gave a denial reply. These risk factor in this patient, who had a history of hepa- exposurehistoriesarenotshamefulorinterestrelated. titis B cirrhosis. On its own, hepatitis B cirrhosis can Theyhavenomotiveandreasontoconceal.Wecould leadtodecreasedhepcidinlevels,resultingintheover- notidentify otherpossibilities leadingtoV. vulnificus expressionofferroportin(FPN),causingironoverload infection. Therefore, the focus of this discussion con- .Ironoverloadcansignificantlyincreasethepatho- cernsthetransmissionofV.vulnificusthroughinsects genicity of V. vulnificus . such as bees. Earlydiagnosisandearlystartofmulti-disciplinary Some subspecies of V. vulnificus can survive in treatmentarethekeytothetreatmentofV.vulnificus freshwater environments . Lei et al. studied the sepsis.Antibacterialtreatmentshouldfollowtheprin- presence of V. vulnificus in fresh water products ciple of early, combined, and sufficient loading dose from Guangdong, Guangxi, Beijing, Shenzhen and . In severe infection, tetracyclines and carbape- other places in China, and found that V. vulnificus nemsarelesseffective,andthird-generationcephalos- infection was present in multiple species and was porins combined with quinolones are the best choice characterized by easy infection and seasonality . [12–14]. Therefore, once an early diagnosis is In Guangdong province, Yuan et al. detected 1894 J.-H.Liangetal. Figure6.Bloodcultureresults.Left:Thecultureresultsoftwobloodsamplesfromourhospital,includingaerobicandanaerobic. Right:Bacterialidentificationresultsfromathird-partyauthority.“创伤弧菌”means“Vibriovulnificus.” V. vulnificus in freshwater fish in Shenzhen, and the vibration of their wings and friction with the air detection rate in some freshwater fish was up to . This charge can cause small particles and 38.6%,whichishigherthanthatofseafood.Theposi- materials to adsorb to the surface of the bee. In the tivedetectionrateinfreshwaterwas19.9%.There process of collection, bees will adsorb toxic or pollut- are alsoclinicalreports ofV.vulnificusinfectionafter ing substances and bacteria from different environ- exposuretofreshwater.ZhongshanHospitalofFudan ments such as air, water, soil, and plants. These University reported a case of V. vulnificus infection substances can then be carried back to the hive . related to freshwater shrimp stings . The above Bees have ample opportunity to contact fresh water studies show that fresh water has been colonized by infected by V. vulnificus and adsorb bacteria onto V.vulnificus,whichisfarmoreseriousthanexpected. theirbodiesthroughstaticelectricity.Whenattacking Through infected freshwater or aquatic product, a human, V. vulnificus can then enter the body V. vulnificus can infect human beings. through the bee sting site. In addition, patients with Insect bites can lead to severe infections. Olivares- liver diseases who accumulate large amounts of iron Becerra et al. reported the first case of the association intheliverareatriskforworsenedV.vulnificusinfec- between spleen abscess and bee bite . Richardson tion. Under these conditions, V. vulnificus grows and Schmitz reported a case of chronic relapsing cer- rapidly through iron overload and causes a series of vicofacial necrotizing fasciitis caused by a bee sting bodily injuries and may eventually lead
