Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


ABSTRACT In most humans, body fatness is a quantitative trait reflecting the interactions of environment, genotype, and development. The metabolic predisposition to obesity and its co-morbidities in adulthood begins in the intrauterine environment, extends into early childhood, and is further impacted by puberty. An understanding of the pathogenesis of obesity in children, and its implications for the risk of obesity in adulthood, has the potential to inform healthcare providers about early identification and use of precision medicine approaches towards both prevention and treatment. This chapter begins with a review of the epidemiology and definition of pediatric obesity followed by a discussion of risk factors for adult obesity from genetics to the prenatal environment (epigenetics) through childhood. The next section emphasizes that while some adiposity-related problems are unique to the pediatric population, multi-system co-morbidities of adult obesity are increasingly prevalent in children. The chapter concludes with a discussion of recommendations for intervention(s) and an invitation for providers to engage federal and local governments in discussions of ways to unite families, schools, and communities in the battle against the costliest nutritional problem for children in the United States. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG . INTRODUCTION Obesity and its co-morbidities currently account for over $250 billion per year in health care costs (~25% of total U.S. health care budget ( 1 )) and is projected to increase to over $900 billion by the year 2030 ( 2 ). Obesity is a complex disease reflecting interactions of an increasingly permissive environment on a background of genetic predisposition and developmental programming ( 3 - 7 ). Results from 2017- March 2020 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES, Figure 1A ) indicate that an estimated 21.5% of U.S. children and adolescents aged 2-19 years have obesity (Body mass index [BMI] > 95 th percentile for age and sex), an increase of 25% over the last decade, and 6.1% have severe obesity (BMI > 125% of 95th percentile for age and sex) ( 6 , 8 , 9 ). The prevalence of obesity is significantly higher in non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic children ( Figure 1B ) . By adolescence, the prevalence increases to two-fold and nearly three-fold in these groups respectively compared to their non-Hispanic White or Asian counterparts. Figure 1. Prevalence of obesity in youth. A. Trends in prevalence of obesity by age group
