Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


children ( Figure 2B ). It is clear that most adults will lose a smaller fraction of total body fat and are less likely to sustain that loss than are children, and that younger children are more likely to reduce body fatness and keep it off than older children or adults. Similar patterns of weight loss and weight regain are seen in pharmacological interventions to treat adults with obesity. These data indicate that there is a greater likelihood of successful treatment of obesity and reduced weight maintenance in children than adults but must be interpreted caution. Adult studies, such as LookAHEAD involve a continuous active intervention that may include medication while pediatric studies, such as Obeldisks ( 11 ) ( Figure 2 ) are only single year interventions with intermittent follow-up. Prospective pediatric studies such as Obeldisks may have a much higher attrition rate (about 70%) than adult studies such as LookAHEAD (about 10%), perhaps due to less contact with participants and type of intervention, as well as participant retention resulting in a smaller and less diverse study population of pediatric completers. DEFINITION AND EPIDEMIOLOGY The ideal diagnostic criteria for pediatric obesity would include some assessment of adiposity-related co-morbidity, the risk of persistence of the obesity into adulthood, as well as the risk of future morbidities that would be worsened by excess weight. Several basic principles are pertinent to such an assessment: • During the first year of life there is an increase in weight for height followed by a decline and a second increase at about 6 years of age (designated as “adiposity rebound”). Early adiposity rebound, prior to 5 years of age, is associated with a higher risk of adult obesity ( 21 , 22 ). • The risk of persistence of pediatric obesity into adulthood increases with age, independent of the length of time that the child has been obese ( 3 , 23 ). • Growth patterns are familial and may be predictive of adult adiposity. A mildly overweight adolescent with a family history of adult obesity may be at greater risk for subsequent obesity than a severely overweight youth with a negative family history ( 3 , 23 ). • The risk of adiposity-related morbidity is strongly influenced by family history, regardless of obesity in the affected family members, and varies between racial/ethnic groups ( 3 , 23 , 24 ). BMI is often used
