Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


years of age weight/recumbent length ≥ 97.7 th percentile based on the World Health Organization (WHO) charts is currently used to define obesity ( 24 , 35 ). Figure 3. Normative BMI growth curves for boys and girls. Extended BMI curves for youth aged 2-20 years of age based on Gulati et al ( 30 ). Class 1 obesity defined as BMI between 95th- 120% of 95th percentile; Class 2 between 120%-140% of 9th percentile; Class 3 ≥ 140% of 95th percentiles ( 287 ). Normative data have also been established for waist circumference during childhood ( Figure 4 ). Waist circumference is measured at the level of the upper border of the right superior iliac crest with horizontal alignment of the measuring tape, parallel to the floor, lying snug, but not compressing the skin. These data are most helpful in identifying children at risk for insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and dyslipidemia. The limitation of waist circumference is in the difficulty in properly locating anatomic landmarks such as the umbilicus and superior iliac crest, especially in individuals with severe obesity and/or a large volume of subcutaneous adipose tissue. As noted above, BMI does not directly measure body fat. Individuals at either extreme (low or high) of percent body fat may be incorrectly labeled solely based on BMI. In such cases, if the clinician is uncertain, further evaluation may require more precise methods of assessing body fat such as bioelectrical spectroscopy (BIS), air displacement plethysmography (BOD POD), dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scanning, or Quantitative Magnetic Resonance (QMR) ( 36 , 37 ). Obesity in childhood and adolescence predisposes to obesity in adulthood. In a meta-analysis of 200,777 subjects derived from fifteen prospective studies, Simmonds et al showed that youth with obesity were five times more likely to have obesity in adulthood. Over half of the individuals with obesity in childhood will have obesity in adolescence and nearly 80% of adolescents with obesity will continue to have obesity in adulthood ( 38 ). In a separate meta-analysis of thirty-seven studies, the same group showed that high childhood BMI was associated with an increased incidence of adult diabetes (OR 1.70, 95% CI 1.30-2.22), coronary heart disease (OR 1.20, 95% CI 1.10-1.31), and a range of obesity associated cancers ( 39 ). It should be noted that while childhood obesity persists when present, not all adults with obesity or its associated co-morbidities had
