Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


a range of obesity associated cancers ( 39 ). It should be noted that while childhood obesity persists when present, not all adults with obesity or its associated co-morbidities had obesity in childhood, re-emphasizing that obesity is a result of complex interaction between familial predisposition, likely from genetics, and the environment. Figure 4. Waist circumference (measured at the iliac crest while subjects stood and placed their hands on opposite shoulders) curves for North American Children age 5-19 years derived from NHANES III data ( 196 ) by the Canadian Pediatric Endocrine Group ( https://cpeg-gcep.net/content/waist-circumference-and-waist-height-ratio-charts ). Charted indices for these variables at extreme of body fatness are currently not available. In addition to initiating therapy in childhood when it is more likely to be effective, it is also important to identify the child who is “at-risk” of becoming an obese adult. The risk of adult obesity is higher in children with a first degree relative with obesity and also increases as the child approaches puberty. Whitaker et al ( 23 ), examined health records from 854 subjects born at a health maintenance organization in Washington State between 1965 and 1971 and tracked them into early adulthood (age 21-29 years). The odds ratio for a child with obesity (defined as BMI > 85%ile for age and sex) becoming an adult with obesity rose steadily from 1.3 at age 1-2 years, to 22.3 at age 10-14 years, and 17.5 at age 15 to 17 years of age. In contrast, the effects of parental obesity on odds ratio decreased with age from 3.2 at age 1-2 years to 2.2 at age 15-17 years. More studies like this using larger populations will be informative regarding predictors of having obesity in adulthood . ENERGY HOMEOSTASIS The first law of thermodynamics dictates that the accumulation of stored energy (fat) must be due to caloric intake more than energy expenditure. A sustained small excess of energy intake relative to expenditure will, over time, lead to a substantial increase in body weight. For example, a 50 kg individual who increases their daily caloric intake by 150 kcal (8 ounces of whole milk) above their usual daily energy expenditure (~1800 kcal/day) would gain approximately 8 pounds before sufficient fat-free mass (FFM) was reached to result in a new equilibrium between energy intake and expenditure (assuming approximately 30% of weight gain is FFM). This assumes, however, that there were no metabolic
