Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


and decreased fertility (protecting females from the increased metabolic demands of pregnancy and lactation and the delivery of progeny into inhospitable environments). While carefully controlled studies of the effects of weight loss on energy expenditure in children are not yet available, the higher success rates in sustained fatness reduction in younger children versus adults discussed above suggests that these same systems appear to be more malleable in children prior to puberty ( 60 - 62 ). MOLECULAR GENETICS OF BODY FATNESS Heritability of Body Fatness The storage of excess calories as fat would have been highly advantageous to our progenitors by increasing survival during periods of prolonged caloric restriction and conferring a reproductive advantage. The opportunities for our distant forebears to consume calories to the point of becoming morbidly obese and the likelihood of their survival to an age at which such co-morbidities as T2DM, hypertension, or hyperlipidemia were both low. Thus, it is likely through natural selection that the human genome would be enriched with genes favoring the storage of calories as adipose tissue ( 63 , 64 ). Conversely, there would be few, if any, evolutionary pressures to discourage obesity and ‘defend’ body thinness. With the possible exceptions of the rare cases of obesity due to single gene mutations (see below) or specific anatomic/endocrine lesions (see above), body fatness is a quantitative trait reflecting the interaction of development and environment with genotype. Twin and adoption studies indicate that the heritability of body fatness and of body fat distribution in adulthood is 50 to 80%, [approximately equal to the heritability of height and greater than the heritability of schizophrenia (68%) or breast cancer (45%)] ( 65 ) ( 66 ). Studies have also identified significant genetic influences (heritability greater than 30%) on resting metabolic rate, feeding behavior, food preferences, and on changes in energy expenditure that occur in response to overfeeding ( 67 - 75 ). Genetic influences on resting energy expenditure (REE) are evidenced by studies demonstrating that African-American children tend to have lower REE than Caucasian-American children, even when adjusted for body composition, gender, age, and pubertal status ( 76 ). The calculation of heritability in twin studies assumes that each member of a monozygotic or dizygotic pair is reared in the same environment, and that the degree to which body fatness is more similar within mono- than dizygotic twin pairs is due to the greater genetic
