Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


pair is reared in the same environment, and that the degree to which body fatness is more similar within mono- than dizygotic twin pairs is due to the greater genetic similarity of identical vs. non-identical twins. Studies comparing adopted children with their adoptive and their biological parents assume that each child shares little or none of the immediate environment with each biological parent, and that the degree to which body fatness is more similar between children and their biologic vs. adoptive parents is due to the 50% of their genotype that each child shares with each biological parent. Based on twin studies, the heritability of body fatness appear to increase with age ( 77 ), illustrating the complex interactions of many obesity-risk allelic variants with the environment. Common Single Gene Mutations Associated with Obesity The pivotal role of genetics in the control of body weight is confirmed by the existence of rare single gene variants producing extreme obesity phenotype (e.g., Prader Willi, Bardet-Biedl, Alström, and Cohen syndromes). The most common monogenic cause of obesity – variants in MC4R – does not cause syndromic features, while others cause obesity in association with other distinctive dysmorphic phenotypes ( 67 , 78 ) ( Table 1 ). The fact that mutations in different genes can produce obesity suggests that these genes may be part of a control system for the regulation of body weight, i.e., that feeding behavior and energy expenditure are integrated in a system with complex control mechanisms which can be disrupted at many loci. Further, the impact of a genetic change may not be a direct increase in weight – as an example – recent studies of Prader Willi Syndrome have demonstrated that the endocrine phenotype is due to a deficiency in prohormone convertase, an enzyme that has also been identified as a single gene mutation cause of obesity ( 79 , 80 ). Table 1. Common Single Gene Mutations Associated with Obesity ( 67 ) View in own window Syndrome/Gene Chromosome Phenotype Alström syndrome/ ALMS1 2p14-p13 (Recessive) Childhood blindness due to retinal degeneration, nerve deafness, acanthosis nigricans, chronic nephropathy, primary hypogonadism in males only, type II diabetes mellitus, infantile obesity which may diminish in adulthood. Bardet-Biedl syndrome (22 different genes) 16q21 15q22-q23 Retinitis pigmentosa, mental retardation, polydactyly, hypothalamic hypogonadism, rarely glucose intolerance, deafness, or renal disease Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome 11p15.5 (Recessive) Hyperinsulinemia, hypoglycemia, neonatal hemihypertrophy (Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome), intolerance of fasting
