Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


a SNP in the first intron of the FTO gene (rs9939609) and obesity in a GWAS of approximately 500,000 individuals with type 2 diabetes. Individuals homozygous for this SNP (AA) were approximately three kilograms heavier and at a 1.7-fold increased risk of obesity than those who were homozygous unaffected (TT). Since then numerous other FTO-related SNP’s have been identified that are associated with BMI ( 87 , 88 ). These SNP’s are especially relevant to the study of childhood obesity because of their frequency (14-18% AA; 39-50% AT; and 30-35% TT ( 89 )) and the fact that the behavioral phenotype is evident in early childhood before obesity is manifest. Cecil et al. ( 90 ) used a three-pronged preload model to quantify energy intake in 4 to 10 year-old subjects genotyped with AA, AT, and TT alleles and found that the presence of an A allele was associated with increased energy intake and caloric density (kcal/gm) of foods chosen without any effect on energy expenditure (doubly labeled water method) or compensation index for increasing preload. Wardle et al. ( 89 ) reported that 4 to 5 year-old children who were homozygous (n=24) or heterozygous (n=66) for the FTO / FTM allele (AA or AT) and had eaten a meal to satiety, ate significantly more than control subjects (n=43, TT) when offered additional food, even when corrected for body fatness. The choice of snack was limited in this latter study and, thus, the authors were unable to comment on preference for calorically dense foods. Two separate studies of large cohorts (totaling over 36,000 individuals) reported no association of FTO genotype with increased BMI prior to the age of seven ( 86 , 91 ). There appears to be no effect of the A allele on energy output ( 88 , 92 ). Thus, behaviors that are premonitory of subsequent weight are evident and measurable in pre-obese children with allelic variants of FTO . These abnormal feeding patterns associated with increased energy intake ( 93 ) including decreased dietary restraint following a caloric preload ( 94 , 95 ), and ratings of hunger prior to or satiety after a meal ( 96 ) are not seen in already-overweight adults. These data emphasize the importance of studying eating behavior in subjects "at risk" for weight gain to understand the dynamics of food intake that favor the development of obesity. More recently, use
