Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


emphasize the importance of studying eating behavior in subjects "at risk" for weight gain to understand the dynamics of food intake that favor the development of obesity. More recently, use of polygenic risk scores (combination of the risk estimate apportioned by each common variant) using as many as 2.1 million common variants has enhanced the ability to quantify the susceptibility of obesity. Khera et al( 4 ) used such a polygenic risk score in the 7,861 participants in the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children, a birth cohort recruited between 1991-92 and longitudinally followed to 18 years of age. The birth weight of the individuals in the top decile of the polygenic risk score was 0.06 kg (p=.02) higher compared to the bottom decile. By 8 years of age, the difference increased to 3.5 kg (p < .0001) and by 18 years, the difference in weight was 12.3 kg (p <.0001). The authors postulate that the aggregation of risk for obesity that can be conferred by having many common variants approaches the susceptibility equivalent to rare monogenic mutations in MC4R . ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS AFFECTING PEDIATRIC RISK OF OBESITY AND ADIPOSITY-RELATED MORBIDITIES Epigenetics The term “epigenetics” was first coined in 1942 by the British developmental biologist C.H. Waddington to refer to how gene regulation modulates development. In 1990, the molecular biologist Dr. Robin Holliday re-defined the term “epigenetics” as “the study of the mechanisms of temporal and spatial control of gene activity during the development of complex organisms.” More recently this has been understood simply as the study of changes that affect the expression or “potency” of genes without necessarily affecting the nucleotide sequences of the genes themselves ( 97 , 98 ). Epigenetics is extremely relevant to obesity in that it has allowed examination of the effects of the intrauterine environment, primarily in the form of factors affecting DNA methylation, histone acetylation, and expression of micro RNA’s, on gene expression relevant to obesity and its co-morbidities. Increased DNA methylation decreases the transcription of relevant genes and is affected by parental obesity, maternal diet (e.g., nutrition, folic acid content and other methyl donors), gestational diabetes (see below), and maternal medications (antibiotics and antipsychotics), smoking or exposure to chemicals such as bisphenol ( 99 , 100 ) . Histones are proteins that “package” DNA into nucleosomes and post-translational modifications in the tails of histone affect the accessibility of DNA for methylation
