Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


bisphenol ( 99 , 100 ) . Histones are proteins that “package” DNA into nucleosomes and post-translational modifications in the tails of histone affect the accessibility of DNA for methylation and translation. Loss of histone demethylase leads to obesity via decreased expression of PPAR α and UCP1 , and de-acetylation of the GLUT4 histone tail leads to impaired glucose transport ( 101 , 102 ). The human genome has been suggested to contain over 1000 micro (non-coding) RNAs (miRNAs), which may influence expression of more than 60% of mammalian genes by regulating gene expression. Each miRNA can interact with expression of multiple genes, including many involved in adipogenesis ( 103 ), that play pivotal roles in the development of obesity and its co-morbidities. Major intrauterine environmental influences on the risk of subsequent obesity via these processes and others include maternal adiposity and gestational weight gain, under- and over- nutrition, gestational diabetes, maternal stress, and various chemicals, pharmaceuticals etc., to which the mother and fetus may be exposed during pregnancy. • Maternal weight impacts the fetus at multiple levels beyond those due to obesity risk alleles that may be inherited from either parent. This is exemplified by studies of offspring of mothers before and after bariatric surgery. The genotype of the mother is unchanged yet the fatness, blood pressure, circulating concentrations of insulin and gene expression relevant to diabetes, autoimmune disease, and vascular disease risk are all reduced in children who develop in the post-bariatric surgery intrauterine environment ( 104 ). Weight gain during pregnancy has a strong positive correlation with the incidence of large for gestational age babies and subsequent childhood obesity ( 105 ) augmented 2-5 fold in mothers with pre-partum obesity compared to those who were neither overweight nor obese prior to pregnancy. Figure 5. U-shaped curve of odds risk for obesity at age 9-11 years based on birth weight. Curve is corrected for gestational diabets, gestional age, childs age, breast or formula feeding, highest level of parental education, sleep time, moderately vigorous physical acitivvity time (MVPA), sendentary time and healthy/unhealthy diet scores ( 288 ) weight Dashed lines identify 95% confidence intervals. Inserted text boxes indicate independent effects of small for gestational age (SGA) and large for gestational age (LGA) on various health parameters in adults. • Pre-Natal undernutrition (see Figure 5 ) reflects maternal undernutrition or compromised fuel delivery to the fetus–the latter usually due to
