Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


gestational age (LGA) on various health parameters in adults. • Pre-Natal undernutrition (see Figure 5 ) reflects maternal undernutrition or compromised fuel delivery to the fetus–the latter usually due to placental dysfunction. Studies that have examined the prevalence of obesity in children conceived during periods of natural or man-made famine such as the Nazi-imposed Dutch famine of 1944-45 (the “Winter Hunger”) ( 106 ) report a small but statistically significant increase in the prevalence of obesity (defined as weight for height greater than 120% of WHO standards for 1948) in 19 year-old male military recruits whose mothers were malnourished only during the first trimester of pregnancy (2.77% prevalence if mother was in famine area vs. 1.45% if mother was outside of famine area during pregnancy) and a decrease in the prevalence of obesity among recruits whose mothers were malnourished during the child’s immediate post-natal period (0.82% if mother was in famine area vs. 1.32% if mother was outside of famine area during pregnancy). It has been hypothesized that early intrauterine malnutrition might affect hypothalamic ("appetite center") development while the anti-obesity effects of early post-natal malnutrition might be due to suppression of adipocyte formation. Long-term tracking studies of children who are small for gestational age, possibly due to prenatal undernutrition, have reported that, even when corrected for adult adiposity, birthweight is negatively correlated with the incidence of adiposity-related morbidities, including T2DM, hypertension, stroke, and cardiovascular disease, in adulthood ( 107 - 112 ). This association implies an interaction between the prenatal environment and development/function of pancreatic beta-cells and other organs such as the hypothalamus, liver, and kidneys that are involved in the regulation of adult energy homeostasis and cardiovascular function. As hypothesized by Barker ( 113 - 115 ), the metabolic, cardiovascular, and endocrine basis for adult adiposity-related morbidities may originate through adaptations that the fetus makes in response to undernourishment, especially when availability of calories in the environment that baby is born into is no longer limited. Therefore, the small-for-gestational-age baby should be considered to be at increased risk for adult morbidities that are exacerbated by increased adiposity ( 63 ). • Pre-Natal over nutrition (see Figure 5 ) is exemplified by the infant of a mother with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). The high ambient glucose concentrations of the prenatal environment stimulate fetal hyperinsulinemia, increased lipogenesis, and macrosomia. Since women with gestational diabetes are often overweight or obese, it is
