Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


mellitus (GDM). The high ambient glucose concentrations of the prenatal environment stimulate fetal hyperinsulinemia, increased lipogenesis, and macrosomia. Since women with gestational diabetes are often overweight or obese, it is difficult to separate the metabolic effects of gestational diabetes on subsequent adiposity of offspring of mothers with GDM from the possibility that the mother has transmitted a genetic tendency towards obesity. Yet several studies have shown that GDM is associated with an increased risk of obesity in the offspring, independent of the degree of maternal obesity ( 116 - 119 ). • Maternal stress, which can be metabolic (e.g., obesity, diabetes, undernutrition, illness), psychiatric (e.g., depression, anxiety, bereavement), or pharmacological (e.g., steroids, antidepressants, antibiotics) have all been associated with increased risk of offspring obesity. These stressors affect developing neural systems regulating energy homeostasis, endocrine systems affecting risk of diabetes–including increased activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, immune system alterations resulting in increased circulating concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines, decreased concentrations of adiponectin relative to fat mass, and increased risk of hypertension ( 120 , 121 ). • Cocaine and marijuana: Exposure of the fetus to cocaine or marijuana during pregnancy has been reported to increase the likelihood of obesity in childhood and increase risk factors for T2DM ( 122 - 124 ). The mechanisms have yet to be ascertained. Early Feeding Practices For reasons discussed above, accurate assessment of the effects of early infant feeding practices on subsequent adiposity must control for possible effects of maternal adiposity as well as socioeconomic status and other factors that may affect the ability to breastfeed ( 125 ). Meta-analyses have shown that predominantly breastfeeding for at least 3-6 months is associated with significant reductions in the prevalence of obesity of their offspring through young adulthood ( 126 - 128 ), even when controlled for other adiposity-risk variables. In addition to any benefits of the dietary macronutrient content on subsequent adiposity, observations suggest that the institution of a well-balanced diet in childhood may form the basis for long-term healthy dietary habits that will significantly lower adult cardiovascular disease risk even if the diet composition does not substantially affect weight ( 129 ). Studies have also identified positive correlations between the consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, caloric density of snacks, fast food intake, the portion size of meals, and the hours of television watched (see below) with weight gain in children ( 129 - 135 ). Early
