Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


density of snacks, fast food intake, the portion size of meals, and the hours of television watched (see below) with weight gain in children ( 129 - 135 ). Early Life BMI Trajectories A prospective longitudinal study of 7,738 U.S. children starting kindergarten in 1998-1999 showed that children with overweight and obesity at 5 years of age were four times as likely as their normal-weight counterparts to have obesity at 10-year follow-up. Among children who became obese between the ages of 5 and 14 years, nearly half had been overweight and 75% had been above the 70 th percentile for BMI at baseline, indicating that incident obesity for these children had occurred at younger ages ( 136 ). Many studies have examined the association of rapid weight, or weight/length or BMI trajectories in the first three years of life and noted association with overweight, obesity or severe obesity at 6 years to adolescence ( 137 - 141 ). One study simulated growth trajectories across life course using pooled data from nearly 42,000 children and adults representative of U.S. population in 2016 adjusting for secular trends. They estimated that a 2-year-old with obesity will continue a trajectory of rapid weight gain and has a 74.9% (95% CI 67.3 to 81.5) probability of being obese at age 35 years. These risks are higher for those with severe obesity. Social Determinants of Health Social determinants of health are the conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work, and age. These include the family, physical and social environment, each of which influences obesity either directly through children’s nutrition and activity or indirectly via added stress. Analysis of NHANES data has demonstrated a higher prevalence of obesity and severe obesity with greater age and lower education of the household head ( 142 ). This same study noted an association of severe obesity in youth residing in non-metropolitan statistical areas with more difficult access to large supermarkets. In a study of national sample of 3,748 children from US households receiving Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) compared to those without, Gorski Findling et al noted higher odds of obesity amongst those receiving the SNAP program (OR 1.14 [95% CI 1.05-1.24]) and with access to a combination grocery/other store, compared to those with access to supermarkets with greater variety of fresh food. They also noted that in convenience stores, 26.1% of the average child’s total household food
