Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


grocery/other store, compared to those with access to supermarkets with greater variety of fresh food. They also noted that in convenience stores, 26.1% of the average child’s total household food spending was on sugary beverages (SNAP 29.8% vs non-SNAP 15.5%) ( 143 ). In a study of households in New York City, Elbel et al noted that living farther than 0.025 mile (about half a city block) from the nearest fast-food restaurant was associated with lower rates of overweight and obesity, along with lower BMIz scores ( 144 ). The built and natural environments play a critical role in the access to physical activity (PA) for children. Street connectivity, defined as the directness of links and density of connection in street networks provides better access to outdoor PA such as walking, playing and cycling. Studies with perceived street connectivity by children, frequently near school, had higher odds of PA (OR 1.13, 95% CI 1.04-1.24). Similarly, higher odds of moderate to vigorous PA (OR 1.33, 95% CI 1.17-1.52) was noted with higher levels of street connectivity. No significant associations were identified with BMI or BMI z-scores ( 145 ). The same authors also conducted a metanalysis of natural environment with levels of PA in children. Ambient temperature was identified as the most consequential predictor associated with PA. An increase of 10 °F heating and cooling was associated with reduction in moderate to vigorous PA by 5 and 17 min respectively. No associations were reported with air quality ( 146 ). Thus, a complex array of determinants contributes towards the risk of obesity and severe obesity in youth and will require a multipronged approach for intervention ( 147 - 157 ). Physical Activity, Sedentary Behavior, and Sleep Behaviors related to PA and sedentary established in childhood have been shown to track well into adulthood ( 150 , 151 ) and are independent correlates of BMI and adiposity ( 158 , 159 ) ( 160 , 161 ). Meta-analyses of cross-sectional studies show negative associations of PA and positive associations of sedentary behavior (SB) with adiposity in children ( 162 - 164 ), that are further evident with direct objective (e.g., calorimetry) rather than subjective (self-reported) assessments ( 163 ). The implications of these findings for early intervention to treat and prevent pediatric obesity are discussed below. MORBIDITIES ASSOCIATED WITH OBESITY IN CHILDREN As in adulthood, obesity in childhood adversely affects every organ
