Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


). In studies of adults and children with a strong family history of T2DM, it appears that impaired pancreatic islet-cell function is the first identifiable metabolic abnormality in some subjects who subsequently develop T2DM, while in other populations, insulin resistance is the first identifiable phenotype ( 183 , 184 ). These data, along with the observation that subjects may be insulin-resistant but not meet clinical definition for diabetes, and that many individuals with impaired β-cell function may not go on to develop T2DM ( 185 , 186 ), suggest that T2DM is due to a combination of insulin-resistance and an impaired β-cell ability to respond to that state of insulin-resistance. In this sense, a state of relative insulin resistance, or the expression of an underlying tendency towards conditions associated with insulin resistance, the major causes of which in adolescence would be pubertal hormonal changes and/or obesity, may act to “unmask” a pre-diabetic state of impaired insulin secretion in some individuals. Consistent with this, available evidence suggests that the incidence of T2DM in children peaks around puberty, as do the ethnic differences in the prevalence of pediatric obesity ( 187 , 188 ), coincidentally with the known decline in insulin-sensitivity and increase in adiposity in the peri-pubertal period ( 189 - 191 ). Central body fat distribution, usually defined on the basis of waist circumference or the ratio of waist-to-hip circumference, is an independent predictor of adiposity-related insulin resistance in adolescents and adults ( 191 - 193 ) as well as other co-morbidity risk factors ( 194 - 196 ). There appear to be effects of ethnicity on the relative impact of body fat distribution on insulin sensitivity. In Caucasian-American children, increasing visceral adiposity is the best correlate of increased fasting insulin levels and insulin secretion during OGTT, and of glucose disposal during hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp studies ( 191 ). In African American (but not Caucasian) pre-pubertal children, intra-abdominal adipose tissue volume was significantly correlated with fasting insulin concentrations and with insulin sensitivity as measured by area under the curve (AUC) during oral glucose tolerance testing ( 197 - 199 ). Other studies of African-American prepubertal girls have found that elevated fasting insulin concentrations and reduced insulin sensitivity are significantly correlated with greater subcutaneous, but not visceral, adipose tissue volumes ( 200 ). Because of the increasing frequency of T2DM among adolescents with obesity, and the worsening of diabetes-related morbidities that may
