Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


include higher maternal pregravid adiposity, excessive gestational weight gain, gestational diabetes and hypertension, and smoking during pregnancy ( 212 ). Addressing any of these risk factors is beneficial to the health of the mother as well as the fetus. The likelihood of modifying these risk factors is variable. The Institute of Medicine (USA) recommends different ranges of weight gain for women who are underweight (12.5-18.0 kg if BMI < 18.5 kg/m 2 ), have a BMI within the normal range (11.5-16.0 kg if BMI 18.5-24.9 kg/m 2 ), are overweight (7.0-11.5 kg if BMI 25.0-29.9 kg/m 2 ) or are obese (5.0-9.0 kg for BMI ≥30 kg/m 2 ) ( 213 ). As discussed above, there are clear offspring-health benefits of maternal bariatric surgery ( 104 ). However, it is difficult to implement non-surgical weight loss plans in preparation for pregnancy and the health benefits of lifestyle interventions both before and during pregnancy on childhood adiposity and co-morbidities smaller and less sustained than observed with bariatric surgery ( 212 , 214 ). Benefits of better control of gestational diabetes are more substantial and persistent ( 215 ). Initial Evaluation Pediatric obesity is a persistent worldwide problem, and preventing pediatric obesity and its comorbidities is of paramount importance. The authors posit that every youth with overweight, obesity, and severe obesity should have an opportunity for medical management shared with the individual, the family, and the medical home. The 2017 Endocrine Society guidelines for pediatric obesity assessment, treatment, and prevention provide an excellent framework towards this goal ( 24 ) ( Figure 6 ). A thorough medical and family history is crucial as in any chronic condition. Figure 6. Algorithm for implementing the 2017 Endocrine Society guidelines on management of children and adolescents with obesity ( 24 ). Initial, and subsequent, evaluations should include a dietary history of the child’s and family’s typical eating habits (including snacks and the frequency with which they consume sugar-added beverages and foods prepared outside of the home). A physical activity history should also be obtained, including school physical education, after-school activities, and activities of daily living (such as walking to school), family activities, and sedentary activities (such as television watching). The family history should encompass obesity, bariatric surgery, T2DM, gestational diabetes, and other comorbidities of obesity including sleep apnea and use of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). A detailed physical examination focused on identifying possible causes
