Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


bariatric surgery, T2DM, gestational diabetes, and other comorbidities of obesity including sleep apnea and use of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). A detailed physical examination focused on identifying possible causes of unwanted weight gain (e.g., enlarged thyroid gland, cushingoid body habitus) and weight–related co-morbidities (acanthosis nigricans, hypertension, etc. see Tables 2 - 4 ) should be performed. Laboratory studies should be guided by history and physical examination and at minimum include fasting measurements of glucose, lipids, hemoglobin A1c, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and vitamin D to screen for diabetes, dyslipidemia, fatty liver disease, and hypovitaminosis D. Because of the increased risk of polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) in adolescents with obesity, total and free testosterone, as well as sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), should be measured in girls with signs of hyperandrogenism, oligomenorrhea, or other symptoms suggestive of this disorder ( 216 ). Routine evaluation for endocrine etiologies of pediatric obesity are not recommended by the Endocrine Society ( 24 ) except if statural growth is compromised. The authors suggest amending this to include a broader list of phenotypes that may be related to thyroid disease. These should include any possible indices of hypothyroidism in the first 3 years of life to avoid the deleterious effects of early thyroid disease on subsequent development ( 217 ). They should also include screening for symptoms of acquired hypothyroidism, especially autoimmune thyroiditis and especially in adolescent females, with later onset weight gain or autoimmune disease ( 218 ). Children under 5 years of age who are extremely obese, especially if they have concurrent adiposity-related morbidities, evidence of developmental delay, or other phenotypic features associated with the rare obesity syndromes (such as Prader Willi or Bardet Biedl syndrome) discussed above ( Table 1 ), can be referred to a physician who specializes in the treatment and genetic evaluation of pediatric obesity ( 219 ). Targeted therapies are available for some of these conditions. Health care providers are often confronted by the difficulty in deciding whether or not to attempt intervention in a child who is not obese but is overweight or has a growth trajectory that may be premonitory of obesity. Assessment of the risk of progression to obesity should be based on family history of growth patterns and of adiposity-related co-morbidities, any evidence of co-morbidity in the child, and familial readiness to engage in early intervention to prevent obesity. Parents of a
