Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


family history of growth patterns and of adiposity-related co-morbidities, any evidence of co-morbidity in the child, and familial readiness to engage in early intervention to prevent obesity. Parents of a child who is clearly “at-risk” maybe more reluctant to begin lifestyle or other therapies since the child is not obese. If parents are amenable then the same therapies used to treat obesity can be initiated. If the parents are not amenable then the health care provider should monitor growth of the child and co-morbidity risk and keep parents involved in the discussion of progression towards obesity and/or its co-morbidities. Family based interventions are most effective for management of pediatric obesity ( 219 - 221 ). Efforts spent in assessing the home environment are critical to success of management. Factors such as parental and sibling adiposity, education, and the quality of the relationship between the primary caregiver and the child have all been identified as significant determinants of the likelihood of a successful pediatric weight loss intervention ( 222 ). The logical extension of these findings is that optimal therapeutic interventions must include support for the child’s family, regardless of the level of obesity of the family members ( 223 ). The clinician should begin assessment of family therapeutic readiness by asking the entire family how concerned they are about the patient’s overweight, in a supportive manner designed to elicit cooperation from the family and patient. Examples might include asking, “Do you feel that weight is a problem?” or “What do you think that you could change to help you lose weight?” rather than, “Why can’t you control what you eat?” The discussion should emphasize the potential benefits of therapeutic intervention, including the importance of cooperation of all caregivers, the increased likelihood of diminishing adult body fatness with early adoption of consistent and long-term lifestyle intervention. Treatment of the child with overweight or obesity must be individualized and the clinician should remain sensitive to issues such as ability of the parents to prepare meals for the patient, neighborhood safety or availability of adult supervision, which may impact on the availability of physical activity after school, and remain culturally sensitive in making dietary recommendations. Therapeutic Intervention The approach to management of a child with overweight or obesity is in many ways more complex than the same choice in an adult because of additional concerns regarding growth if negative energy balance is excessive.
