Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


child with overweight or obesity is in many ways more complex than the same choice in an adult because of additional concerns regarding growth if negative energy balance is excessive. The major goal of management should be to diminish morbidity rather than to achieve a "cosmetically endorsed" body weight. While imperfect, BMI is clinically the most readily accessible parameter to assess the level of obesity. The “severity” of obesity should initially be assessed based on the BMI references provided above, presence of current morbidities such as T2DM, and risk of future adiposity-related morbidity (based on family history) ( 219 ). This increased risk of treatment-associated impairment of statural or brain growth is higher in younger children and caloric restriction to reduce weight should not be used in infants less than 2 years of age. Beginning therapy with the assumption that obesity is a choice and can be “fixed” easily by moving more and eating less is outdated and inaccurate in the current science of obesity and promotes weight stigmatization and “fat shaming”. Excessive emphasis on behavior and self-sufficiency may precipitate eating disorders, as well as other psychological disorders such as low self-esteem, anxiety, and depression – especially if long-term weight loss is unsuccessful, especially in the peri-pubertal stages ( 167 ). It is important to tailor the management for individual child and their family. Program adherence, defined as the number of contacts with the weight-management program, is a primary factor in successful weight loss for overweight children and adolescents ( 224 ). Maximizing adherence is like to include program modification over time in a given child. As more data accumulate regarding precision medicine approaches to identify genetic and other predictors of responses to different interventions, adherence and success are likely to improve. Clinicians can prescribe intensive, age-appropriate, culturally sensitive, family-centered lifestyle modifications (dietary, physical activity, behavioral) to promote a decrease in BMI (rather than weight). When weight is maintained at a constant level or weight gain is proportionally slower than height gain, BMI can reduce with increase in linear growth. In the otherwise healthy child with obesity with no evidence of co- morbidity, such modifications may be sufficient to maintain long-term health. In contrast, in a youth with severe obesity (BMI ≥ 120% of 95 th percentile of BMI) or presence of co-morbidity such as T2DM or hypertension, such management can be augmented with pharmacotherapy and/or bariatric surgery, as deemed
