Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


(BMI ≥ 120% of 95 th percentile of BMI) or presence of co-morbidity such as T2DM or hypertension, such management can be augmented with pharmacotherapy and/or bariatric surgery, as deemed suitable ( 225 , 226 ). Dietary Recommendations The Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020-2025 can be used as a reference for dietary counseling ( 227 ). These guidelines emphasize following a healthy dietary pattern at every life stage with a focus on meeting food group needs with nutrient (and not calorie)-dense foods and beverages and stay within the appropriate calorie limits. Hence, the entire family can be engaged in culturally appropriate dietary modifications. Studies suggest that the long-term sustenance of such intervention is most successful with a supportive family. It is also important to convey to the family on the need for sustenance of such changes for long-term favorable outcomes. Encouragement can be provided by examining growth and growth velocity curves with patients and their families to illustrate progress. If appropriate, the significance of any evident reduction in morbidity (e.g., lowering of blood pressure or cholesterol) can be reinforced. Reasonable goals in the form of a "target" body weight at the next visit should be set at each office visit so that the patient and parents are aware of what is expected. These goals should be modest and attainable even if patients are only moderately compliant with their diet and exercise regimens since achievement of an interval “target weight" will also encourage the patient. The caloric need of a person varies maintain, gain, or lose weight are dependent upon age, sex, height, weight and level of physical activity. The Dietary Guidelines provide estimated amounts of calories needed to maintain energy balance of various age and sex groups at three different levels of physical activity from toddlers to age 2 years, as well as ages 2 and older ( 227 ). These estimates are based on the Estimated Energy Requirements (EER) equations, using average reference height and weight by age and sex. These are a useful starting point to tailor the needs to that of the patient. It is useful to get an assessment of the current caloric intake from the families. However, self-reported caloric intake is often inaccurate. For direct assessment, the child's ad libitum diet can be observed and recorded by the parents for a minimum of five consecutive days. A diet diminished to 300 to 400 kcal/day below
