Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


assessment, the child's ad libitum diet can be observed and recorded by the parents for a minimum of five consecutive days. A diet diminished to 300 to 400 kcal/day below weight-maintenance requirements as assessed by dietary history or as calculated based upon formula relating anthropometry to energy expenditure, e.g., the Harris-Benedict Equation ( 228 ) should result in weight loss of approximately one pound per week. Note that since weight reduction per se causes decreased energy expenditure (both from decreased metabolic mass and whatever hypometabolic state is invoked by losing weight ( 40 , 49 , 67 ) and during weight loss, periodic downward adjustments of energy intake will be necessary to sustain ongoing weight reduction. The family should be instructed in long-term monitoring of caloric intake within, and outside of, the home and cautioned not to become overly critical or punitive towards the child if weight loss is slow or compliance is suboptimal. The core elements of Dietary Guidelines for Americans sorted by food group are listed below: • Vegetables: Increased relative consumption of vegetables of all types – dark green; red and orange; beans, peas, and lentils; starchy; and other vegetables. • Fruits: Consumption of whole fruits rather than juices. • Grains: At least half of the consumed grains should be whole grains. • Dairy: Dairy intake should be focused on fat-free or low-fat milk, yogurt, and cheese, and/or lactose-free versions and fortified soy beverages and yoghurt as alternatives. • Protein: Protein intake should focus on lean meats, poultry, and eggs; seafood; beans, peas, and lentils; and nuts, seeds, and soy products. • Fats: Children need fats – both saturated fats and cholesterol for normal growth and brain development. On the other hand, trans fats, such as those from fried foods are unhealthy. Eggs, butter, whole dairy products and oils, including vegetable oils and those in seafood and nuts are recommended. The guidelines also recommend limiting foods and beverages higher in added sugars (including those with high fructose corn syrup), saturated fat, and sodium. Less than 10% of calories per day should be derived from added sugars starting at age 2 years, and families should be advised to avoid beverages with any added sugars. In the US, 57-61% children derive > 10% of their energy from added sugars, 88% consume > 10% saturated fat and nearly 95% consume foods containing greater than the recommended sodium amount.( 229 -
