Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


following basic principles of dietary intervention to achieve negative energy balance, which it should be noted would likely be beneficial to everyone regardless of adiposity: • Replace all sugary drinks (including juices, sodas, and whole milk) with water, noncaloric beverages, and low-fat or skim milk. • Create a balanced diet including vegetables, fruits, whole grains, nuts, fiber, lean meat, fish, and low-fat dairy products. Specifically encourage consumption of at least five servings of fruits and vegetables daily. • Reduce intake of calorie dense foods such as saturated fats, salty snacks, and high glycemic foods including candy, white bread, processed white rice, pasta, and potatoes. • Minimize consumption of foods outside of the home. Fast foods in particular. • Eat breakfast daily. Based on available data it appears that dietary macronutrient composition in childhood does not significantly affect later adiposity ( 247 ) and that diets consisting of drastically altered proportions of nutrients may be dangerous and yield no better results than a limited intake of a nutritionally balanced diet ( 248 , 249 ). It should be noted that the results of these studies vary substantially and may be age-dependent. For example, in a retrospective study Davis et al ( 250 ) reported that synergistic effects between the duration of breastfeeding and low sugar-sweetened beverage intake in reducing the odds of obesity in toddlers who were Hispanic. In contrast, a recent study comparing the effects of the low fat versus low glycemic index diet in the treatment of obesity in a population of Hispanic American adolescents found no differences between groups based on dietary macronutrient composition ( 251 ) and a recent meta-analysis by Hall and Guo ( 252 ) found that low fat diets promoted greater fat loss than low carbohydrate diets in adults. As noted above, nutritional counseling should encourage decreasing the use of calorically dense (high fat or high glycemic index) foods and adding more fruits and vegetables to the daily diet. The substitution of water for non-nutritious high calorie sugar containing drinks (juices, iced teas and soda pop) may be very helpful ( 225 ), at least transiently ( 253 ). In some cases, reductions in calorically dense foods and sugar-containing drinks through substitution and/or elimination alone can decrease calories and weight without changing the general pattern of food consumption in the family. When families eat at restaurants and fast-food vendors, they have less control over
