Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


alone can decrease calories and weight without changing the general pattern of food consumption in the family. When families eat at restaurants and fast-food vendors, they have less control over food choices than they do at home. Thus, reduction in the number of meals prepared outside the home may also be an effective weight-loss strategy. Parents and adult caregivers should understand the important role they play in the development of proper eating habits in their young children. The parents’ food preferences, the quantities and variety of foods in the home, the parents’ eating behavior and physical activity patterns all determine how supportive the home environment is to the child with obesity. Therapeutic Exercise Physical activity may promote a slightly increased muscle mass, thereby raising total metabolic rate, and the putative effects of exercise to reduce visceral adipose tissue mass independently lower the risk of hyperlipidemia and diabetes mellitus ( 254 - 256 ). However, the energy cost of even vigorous exercise is low when compared to the caloric content of many "fast foods" or other "snacks", and exercise should not be viewed as a "license to eat". For example, walking at three miles per hour for one hour consumes about 200 kilocalories, about the same number of calories contained in a 1¾ ounce bag of potato chips. Use of "treats", such as ice cream, potato chips, etc., as incentives to exercise negates its impact. As with all interventions to reduce pediatric adiposity, increasing physical activity and decreasing sedentary behavior is most likely to be effective, sustained, and benefit the entire family if the entire family participates. Combining the 2017 Endocrine Society statement on pediatric obesity ( 24 ) with other recommendations for physical activity in children ( 147 ), the following guidelines are suggested which again could be applied to the entire family, regardless of their adiposity: • Exercise should be fun, age-appropriate, and tailored to the child’s fitness level and ability and should involve large muscle groups (e.g., quadriceps) to increase energy expenditure. Exercise frequency, duration, and intensity should increase over time. • Moderate-to-vigorous physical activity should, on the average, encompass 90-120 minutes of the day in preschoolers and toddlers (usually unstructured physical activity) and at least 1 hour of the day in children 6 years or older (usually structured physical activity such as after school sports). • Improve sleep hygiene (10-13 hours per night for preschoolers and 8-10
