Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


of the day in children 6 years or older (usually structured physical activity such as after school sports). • Improve sleep hygiene (10-13 hours per night for preschoolers and 8-10 hours per night for adolescents) in response to numerous studies demonstrating associations of decreased sleep duration and weight gain ( 257 - 259 ). • In order to address the issue of increased sedentary behavior due to screen time, the American Academy of Pediatrics provides a downloadable Family Media Plan in English and Spanish ( www.healthychildren.org/MediaUsePlan ) ( 260 ). This plan is for all children and can be personalized for every family depending on the children’s age(s), family priorities, time of the year (e.g., academic year versus vacation), etc., and includes elements such as screen free zones, screen free times, choosing good content, using medial together and digital privacy and safety. In its 2017 recommendations specifically for children with obesity, the Endocrine Society suggested that nonacademic screen time should be reduced to 1-2 hours per day and that other sedentary behaviors, such as digital activities, should be decreased ( 24 ). While no specific aspect of the sedentary lifestyle has been shown to directly cause obesity, behaviors such as television viewing, reading, working at a computer, driving a car or commuting do exert effects on health. Television viewing appears to be directly associated with the incidence of obesity, and inversely associated with the remission of obesity. The impact of television viewing on obesity seems to be due to both displacing more vigorous activities and its effect on diet. Not only is television viewing a sedentary behavior, but food has also constituted the most heavily advertised product on children’s television in the United States. In Mexican-American children, adiposity was significantly correlated with time spent watching television but not with time spent watching videos (261), suggesting that the bulk of the positive association of television watching and adiposity is due to the approximately 60% of advertising that is devoted to food ( 134 ). Children and adolescents should be encouraged to view as little television as possible. Limitation of television, video games, and internet viewing will encourage greater participation in physical activity. Clinicians should encourage children to participate in organized or individual sports (participate, not watch from the bench) and advocate for better community- and school-based- activity programs. If the patient is unable to lose weight and/or co-morbid conditions persist, consideration
