Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


individual sports (participate, not watch from the bench) and advocate for better community- and school-based- activity programs. If the patient is unable to lose weight and/or co-morbid conditions persist, consideration should be given to referral of the child to a physician specializing in the treatment of pediatric obesity. Weight-loss programs, weight-reduction camps, etc. are often not covered by medical insurance and should be considered for the child who is morbidly obese with some caution. Enrollment in a highly supervised environment may demonstrate to an overweight child that weight loss is possible and encourage them to continue. However, rapid weight loss may precipitate cholelithiasis ( 262 ) or eating disorders. A child may become overly pre-occupied with his/her weight and, even if a moderate degree of weight-loss is achieved, lose self-esteem. Obsession with weight on the part of the child or their family may lead to serious deterioration of intra-family relationships. Digital Interventions Technology based interventions provide a novel tool to add to the armamentarium for weight management in youth. Technologies can include information and communication technology, web-based interventions, mobile phone applications and smart-phone based interventions, text-messaging, and wearable technology. In a systematic review of 8 studies (n=582 youth) of technology-based interventions with or without wearable devices with a spread of intervention ranging from behavioral counseling via telehealth to text-message based reminders and family-based therapies, significant differences in BMI were reported by 5 of the 8 studies. Pooled analysis showed standardized mean difference of -0.61 (95% CI -1.10, -0.13, p <.01), albeit with significant heterogeneity. Interestingly, as is seen with in-person interventions, the effect was lower in the sub-group with parental involvement ( 263 ). Similarly, in a separate meta-analysis of 12 randomized controlled trials (3227 youth), use of wearable devices, such as pedometers or wristband activity trackers, had statistically significant reduction in BMI, BMI z-score and body fat, but not in waist circumference. The impact was higher in individuals with obesity compared to those with normal weight (for prevention of obesity) ( 264 ). Where accessible, such technologies can provide an additional tool for weight management in youth. Pharmacological and Surgical Interventions For youth with severe obesity or those with concomitant co-morbidity, both pharmacotherapy and surgical interventions can augment intensive lifestyle management prescribed above. Several pharmacological therapies have been approved by FDA for use in youth ≥ 12 years of age in the past 5 years and clinical trials with
