Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


lifestyle management prescribed above. Several pharmacological therapies have been approved by FDA for use in youth ≥ 12 years of age in the past 5 years and clinical trials with additional medications are ongoing at the time of this publication. Professional associations such as The Obesity Society, Pediatric Endocrine Society as well as other experts have provided guidelines for clinical considerations on the use of obesity pharmacotherapy( 265 - 267 ). Figure 7 provides a mechanistic overview of pharmacotherapies. Figure 7. Mechanism of action of the available medications. Many of the currently used medications for obesity impact the centers for weight regulation in the brain including hypothalamus and the prefrontal cortex, as well as other organs. Abbreviations: NorEpi: norepinephrine; POMC: pro-opiomelanocortin; CART: cocaine- and amphetamine regulated transcript; AGRP: agouti-related polypetide; NPY: neuropeptide Y; GLP1R: glucagon like polypeptide receptor 1; LEPR: leptin receptor; GABA: gamma amino butyric acid; MC4R: melanocyte 4 receptor. Bupropion and Naltrexone are not approved for use in pediatrics for weight loss. The therapeutic preparation of leptin is called metreleptin. Figure created using biorender.com Both the indications for pharmacotherapy and the available approved pharmacological interventions are different in children than in adults. General recommendations for use of pharmacotherapy include: a) availability of a multidisciplinary team including at least one pediatric specialist; b) severe obesity (BMI ≥ 120% of 95 th percentile or BMI ≥ 35 kg/m 2 ) or presence of a co-morbidity with BMI ≥ 95 th percentile (or BMI ≥ 30 kg/m 2 ); c) concomitant lifestyle intervention; d) continuation of medication(s) if there is ≥ 5% BMI reduction from baseline at 12 weeks on the optimal dose or arrest or slowing of weight gain; e) discontinuation if not tolerated or if dangerous side effects occur or persist despite dose adjustment ( 265 ). A list of available therapies and evidence for pediatric use are listed below with guidance on administration is provided in figure 8 . Figure 8. Pharmacotherapy for youth with obesity, approval status and available pediatric data. Bariatric surgery is only approved in adolescents and, although the frequency of adolescent bariatric surgery is increasing, it still accounts for only about 1% of total U.S. bariatric surgery cases ( 268 ). Outcome studies of adolescent bariatric surgery have shown significant improvements in weight, cardiometabolic co-morbidity risk, and quality of life tempered a high incidence (57%) of hypoferritinemia and need for additional abdominal procedures (13%)
