Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


adolescent bariatric surgery have shown significant improvements in weight, cardiometabolic co-morbidity risk, and quality of life tempered a high incidence (57%) of hypoferritinemia and need for additional abdominal procedures (13%) ( 269 ). The American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery recommends the following selection criteria for adolescents eligible for bariatric surgery: • Body mass index ≥ 35 kg/m 2 and a severe comorbidity, with significant comorbidity with short-term effects on health or BMI 40 kg/m 2 or above with more minor comorbidities. • Physical maturity , defined as completing 95% of predicted adult stature based on bone age or reaching Tanner stage IV. This criterion is based on theoretical concerns that rapid weight loss might inhibit statural growth if an adolescent has not reached near adult height. • History of lifestyle efforts to lose weight through changes in diet and physical activity. • Ability and motivation of the patient and family to adhere to recommended treatments pre- and postoperatively, including vitamin and mineral supplementation. • Appropriate understanding of the risks and benefits of surgery on behalf of the adolescents • Supportive but not coercive family. Contraindications to bariatric surgery include: • Medically correctable cause of obesity • An ongoing substance abuse problem (within the preceding year). • A medical, psychiatric, psychosocial, or cognitive condition that prevents adherence to postoperative dietary and medication regimens or impairs decisional capacity. • Current or planned pregnancy within 12 to 18 months of the procedure. • Inability on the part of the patient or parent to comprehend the risks and benefits of the surgical procedure. Both the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery and the Endocrine Society have recommended that a multidisciplinary team consisting of a bariatric surgeon, a pediatrician specializing in obesity, a nutritionist, a mental health professional, an exercise physiologist, and a health care coordinator should be established to evaluate optimal therapy for a child who is a candidate for bariatric surgery based on the presence of co-morbidities and failure of other interventions. Addressing Weight Stigmatization Health care providers have an opportunity to improve the quality of life and intervention outcomes for children with obesity by addressing weight bias ( 209 ). Recent specific recommendations include: • Avoid oversimplification: Recognize the multifactorial nature of obesity as a disease that may require long-term, or even lifelong, attention and challenge stereotypes that obesity, or the difficulty in losing weight, is a lifestyle choice
