Special Considerations Relevant to Pediatric Obesity
KEYWORDS: obesity, pubmed, children, weight, free, pmc, article, article pubmed, free article, pmc free, body, childhood, risk, health, age


multifactorial nature of obesity as a disease that may require long-term, or even lifelong, attention and challenge stereotypes that obesity, or the difficulty in losing weight, is a lifestyle choice rather than a biological issue. • Avoid weight bias: When speaking with the patient or their family focus on the chief complaint (even if it is not weight-related), feel free to discuss implicit and explicit weight bias with families, and support evidence-based care including medication or surgery. • Encourage a collaborative relationship: Ask if it is okay with the patient and family to discuss weight during an appointment, use person-first language (“having obesity” rather than “is obese”), acquaint them with the multifactorial complex nature of weight management, and explore alternative factors that contribute to higher BMI. Other Interventions There are new types of intervention that are only recently being vetted in pediatric randomized clinical trials. Prebiotics, probiotics, and other manipulations of the gut microbiome have been suggested as possible means of treating or preventing pediatric obesity with some initial promising results in relatively small studies ( 270 - 272 ). There is a wide variability in the efficacy of school-based interventions but with more attention to the methodological differences between those that are more successful and those that are not, it may be possible to create a cost-effective practical means of addressing the burgeoning problem of pediatric obesity ( 273 ). There are also a number of bills languishing in Washington that have been left in committee and not allowed to be aired for public debate. The Sugar-sweetened beverage excise task (SWEET) act, the Stop Subsidizing Childhood Obesity Act, and establishment of nutrition standards for all foods served and sold in schools have all been projected to return between 4 and 35 times the number of dollars invested in health care cost savings over the next 10 years ( 274 ). The failure of the SWEET Act, and other legislation that might affect childhood obesity rates, to get into open debate suggests that health care professionals dealing with the problem of pediatric obesity could be more vocal regardless of whether they support the legislation. Implementation of the improved school meals endorsed by the Healthy, Hunger-free Kids Act has been shown to result in significant improvement in school-meals and to be increasingly acceptable to students, with improvement in participation in school-based breakfast programs since its implementation ( 275 , 276 ).
