fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #1
KEYWORDS: zikv, cells, doi, mic, placenta, zikv mic, placental, positive, placentae, infection, samples, infected, time, fetal, frontiersinimmunology


Cruz Foundation/FIOCRUZ 1:200) or BDNF [SAB2108004] (Sigma-Aldrich, United States, (CAEE: 65924217.4.0000.5248) and by the Ethics Committee diluted 1:50). After three washes, sections were incubated of Faculty of Campos Medicine/Benedito Pereira Nunes with an anti-mouse or anti-rabbit IgG-HRP conjugate (Spring Foundation (CAEE: 65924217.4.3001.5244). Consent and Bioscience)for40minatroomtemperature.HRPwasrevealed permission were obtained from patients and participating by its activity on the chromogen substrate diaminobenzidine institutions.Tenplacentaewerecollectedfromwomeninfected (Dako, United States) and sections were counterstained in by ZIKV during pregnancy that resulted in the birth of five babies with birth microcephaly (ZIKV+MIC+) and five with Mayer’shematoxylin(Dako).Fornegativecontrols,sampleswere normal cranial circumference at birth (ZIKV+MIC−). After incubatedwitheitheronlyprimaryantibodiesorsecondaryHRP conjugatedantibodypriortoexposuretochromogensubstrate. delivery, placenta samples were fixed in 10% formalin or 2.5% glutaraldehyde. Samples from ZIKV infected women were Quantification of Positive Cells by collectedattheHospitalPlantadoresdeCana,HospitalGeralDr. Beda from Campos dos Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and Immunohistochemistry Asareferencecontrol,fivesamplesoftermplacentafromhealthy each specific antibody stain, images from 50 random fields donorswereincluded.Allsampleswerecollectedbetween2015 were acquired at 1000x magnification using the software Image and2016thatcoincidewiththeZIKVepidemicinBrazil. Pro version 7 from samples originating from all placentae (ZIKV infected and controls). The number of positive cells Histopathological Investigation were quantified in each of the 50 fields and after segregating Fixed placenta samples were dehydrated in ethanol, clarified in the fields to the three conditions (ZIKV+MIC+; ZIKV+MIC−, xylene and blocked in paraffin. Tissue sections (4 µm thick) and ZIKV−MIC−) the mean number of positive cells per field were mounted onto glass sides, deparaffinized in three baths of was calculated. All image acquisitions were performed by an xyleneandrehydratedwithdecreasingconcentrationsofethanol individual blinded to the diagnosis associated with the tissue (100 to 70%) before staining with hematoxylin and eosin for sample. Figures present representative fields to best convey the histologicalexamination.Preparedspecimenswereobservedby quantificationresults. light microscopy (Olympus,Japan) and digital images captured usingImage-ProPlussoftwareversion7.Allimageswerecoded In situ Hybridization toblindevaluatorstoZIKV±andMIC±priortoanalysis. Insituhybridizationstudieswereperformedonplacentaetissue sections from all cases and controls using a commercial RNA Morphometry scopeTargetProbe(catalog#463781;AdvancedCellDiagnostics, Collagen was revealed by Picro Sirius Red and slides were UnitedStates)thatwascomplementarytosequences1550–2456 observed under polarized light microscopy (Olympus). Fifty oftheZIKVgenome.Pretreatment,hybridizationanddetection fieldswererandomlyacquiredat400xmagnificationfromacross techniques were performed according to manufacturer’s the placenta samples (Zika-infected and control) and the area protocols. The probe-target complex was revealed by alkaline ofcollagenwasmeasuredtocalculatethepercentageofcollagen phosphatase activity on the chromogen substrate nitroblue area(collagenarea/totalareaoftheimage). tetrazoliumandbromo-chloro-indolylphosphate. Immunohistochemistry Assays Immunofluorescence Assay Paraffin-embedded tissue sections (4 µm) were mounted onto Paraffin-embedded tissue sections (4 µm) were mounted onto glassslides,deparaffinizedinxyleneandrehydratedwithalcohol. glass slides, deparaffinized in xylene, exposed to decreasing Antigen retrieval was performed by heating the tissue in the concentrations of ethanol from 100 to 70% and then fully presence of
