fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #1
KEYWORDS: zikv, cells, doi, mic, placenta, zikv mic, placental, positive, placentae, infection, samples, infected, time, fetal, frontiersinimmunology


cesarean that presented a cephalic ZIKV infection that are not predictive for the impact on circumferenceof30cm. fetusdevelopment. Case 7: A 24 year old patient that reported exanthema and pruritus in the second trimester of gestation. Her IgM serology Ultrastructural Alterations and Zika Virus for dengue, herpes, chikungunya, rubella, toxoplasmosis, HIV Particles and cytomegalovirus were non-reactive. Her IgG serology was Noevidenceofultrastructuralchangeswasobservedinplacental positive for dengue, herpes, rubella and cytomegalovirus, and cells from control patients, represented in images form a negativefortoxoplasmosis.AdengueNS1testwasnegative.At single control 1 (Figures 2A–D), which again suggests the 38 weeks of gestation, her baby boy was born by cesarean that collectionandtreatmentofsamplesmaintainedtheirstructural presentedacephaliccircumferenceof29cm.Thenewbornalso integrity. The cytotrophoblasts presented normal aspects for all hadventriculomegaly. organelles, including the mitochondria and the nucleus, which Case 8: A 35 year old patient that reported exanthema, was heterochromatic (Figures 2A,B). Syncytiotrophoblasts shiver and pruritus in the first trimester of gestation. Her presented an electron dense cytoplasm, as expected, with IgM serology was positive for Zika and the PRNT was 90% heterochromatic nuclei (Figure 2C). In the extracellular negative for neutralizing antibodies. Her IgG serology for matrix, collagen filament structures were readily identified in cytomegalovirus and rubella were positive while negative for transverse and longitudinal sections (Figure 2D). In contrast, dengue, toxoplasmosis and HIV negative. At 38 weeks of the analysis of infected placentae showed cytotrophoblasts gestation, her baby girl was born by cesarean with a cephalic with little nuclear variation and an electron lucid cytoplasm circumferenceof29cm. containing swollen mitochondria showing a loss of cristae and Case 9: A 25 year old patient that reported exanthema and ruptured membranes (Figures 2E,F). The syncytiotrophoblasts pruritusinthethirdtrimesterofgestation.HerIgMserologywas aspects were extensively modified with an enlargement of positiveforZikaandthePRNT waspositiveforneutralizing 90% vesicles and apoptotic bodies along with an absence of their antibodies. At 37 weeks of gestation, her baby girl was born normal membrane extensions and secretions of microvesicles by cesarean with a cephalic circumference of 27 cm. The (Figures 2E,G). An investigation of the extracellular matrix placentaweighed565g. across the images of placenta samples from the different Case 10: A 28 year old patient who experienced fever donors did not reveal collagen filaments, which suggests a in the third trimester of pregnancy. Her IgM serology for decrease in this matrix component (Figure 2H). Multiple dengue, chikungunya, rubella, toxoplasmosis, HIV, syphilis and occurrences of clusters were identified that presented a profile cytomegalovirus were non-reactive, and positive for ZIKV. Her reminiscent of virus-like particles, which were often
