fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #1
KEYWORDS: zikv, cells, doi, mic, placenta, zikv mic, placental, positive, placentae, infection, samples, infected, time, fetal, frontiersinimmunology


nucleus(N),mitochondria(M),andcollagenfilamentstructures(COL).(E–H)ElectronmicrographsofultrathinsectionsofplacentaltissuefromdifferentZIKV-infected mothersshowingCTBwithalterationsinthecytoplasm,nuclearvariation(N)andswollenmitochondriawithalossofcristaeandmembranerupture.Theidentified STBpresentedanenlargementofvesiclesandapoptoticbodies(asterisks)alongwithanabsenceofnormalmembraneextensionsandevidenceofmicrovesicle secretion.Theextracellularmatrix(EM)didnotpresentcollagenfilaments.(I–K)Identificationofclustersofvirus-likeparticlesthatwerepositionednearthe endoplasmicreticulum(ER)ofCTBand∼25nmindiameter,whichisconsistentwiththedimensionsofZIKV. insituhybridization(Figure3I).Thestainingpatternobserved AdditionalevidenceforthereplicationofZIKVinmacrophages stronglysuggeststhatthereplicationofZIKVwasinprogressat was observed by the colocalization of NS1 protein with the thetimeofbirth. CD163 marker for differentiated macrophages in dual stained immunofluorescentimages(Figure4P).Asexpected,nosignals Characterization of Cell Subpopulations wereobservedforNS1incontroltissue(Figure4O). To gain further insight into the subpopulations of Cytokines and Mediators Profile in the immune cells that could be migrating to inflamed tissues, Placentae immunohistochemistry was performed to characterize the cell types present in the placentae. A significant upsurge in Based on the inflammatory infiltrate observed in H&E stained the number of CD68+ cells were detected in both groups of sectionsandthedetectionofanincreaseinnumberofimmune infected placentae (ZIKV+MIC− and ZIKV+MIC+), which cells in infected placentae, the production of cytokines and suggested a recruitment of macrophages and hyperplasia mediators were investigated. The expression of TNF-α and causedbytheinfectioninthebasaldeciduaandHofbauercells IFN-γ was evaluated due to their participation in a pro- (Figures4C–F).Theincreaseofmacrophageswerequantifiedto inflammatory response. In addition, Additionally, the markers be5-and6-foldinplacentaeofZIKV+MIC−andZIKV+MIC+ VEGFR-2 and RANTES/CCL5 were included as they have groups, respectively (Figure 4G). Even though T CD8+ cells been implicated with an alteration in vascular permeability. were found in the same areas (Figures 4J–M), few CD4+ cells In control samples, all markers were detected at low levels were detected within the tissues (Supplementary Figure S1). (Figures 5A–H). TNF-α expression was diffuse in Hofbauer The T CD8+ lymphocytes were increased 7- and 8-fold in and mesenchymal cells in the chorionic villi and in decidual the tissues from ZIKV+MIC− and ZIKV+MIC+ groups, cells (Figure 5A). Its expression was 12-fold higher in the respectively (Figure 4N). The control placentae showed a low ZIKV+MIC− group and 16-fold higher in the placenta from number of positive cells for both markers (Figures 4A,B,H,I). the ZIKV+MIC+ group (Figure 5B). IFN-γ was found mostly FrontiersinImmunology|www.frontiersin.org 7 September2020|Volume11|Article2146 fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #8 Rabeloetal. ZikaInducesInflammationinPlacenta FIGURE3|Detectionofviralantigens.TissuesectionswereprobedbyimmunohistochemistryfortheE(A–D)andNS1(E–H)antigensofZIKVaswellasbyinsitu hybridizationforthegenomeofZIKV(I–L).Representativeimagesofcontrolplacentae(A,E,I)showingtheabsenceofreactivityfortheantigensandgenomeof ZIKV.RepresentativeimagesofplacentafromZIKV+placenta,independentofthecephaliccircumferenceoftheinfant,show:(B–D)thepresenceofEproteinin decidualcells(DC)ofdecidua(Dec),mesenchymalcells(MS),endothelialcells(En),andsyncytiotrophoblast(STB)ofchorionicvilli(CV)thatwasindependentofthe cephaliccircumferenceoftheinfant;(F–H)NS1proteindetectedindecidualcells(DC)ofdecidua(Dec),mesenchymalcells(MS),Hofbauer(Hf),syncytiotrophoblast (STB)andcytotrophoblast(CTB)ofchorionicvilli(CV);and(J–L)DetectionofZIKVRNAnegativestrandbyinsituhybridizationindecidualcells(DC)ofdecidua (Dec),mesenchymalcells(MS),syncytiotrophoblast(STB)andcytotrophoblast(CTB)ofchorionicvilli(CV). in decidual cells and decidual macrophages (Figure 5C), with significantlyincreasedintheZIKV+patientplacentaecompared a 3- and 5-fold increase in the ZIKV+MIC− and ZIKV+MIC+ toZIKV−controltissues(Figures5B,D,F,H). groups, respectively (Figure 5D). The expression of VEGFR-2 was found in endothelial and mesenchymal cells in chorionic Changes in Placental Collagen and villi as well as in circulating macrophages within the vessels and in endothelial cells in decidua (Figure 5E). This receptor Matrix Metalloproteinases had an increased expression level of 11- and 13-fold in the The absence of collagen in the electron micrographs was ZIKV+MIC−andZIKV+MIC+groups,respectively(Figure5F). confirmed by its specific staining with Picro Sirius Red, which The chemokine RANTES/CCL5 was detected mainly in the showedthataZIKVinfectionledtoadrasticdecreaseinplacental
