fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #1
KEYWORDS: zikv, cells, doi, mic, placenta, zikv mic, placental, positive, placentae, infection, samples, infected, time, fetal, frontiersinimmunology


Time:9:32 #11 Rabeloetal. ZikaInducesInflammationinPlacenta FIGURE6|Detectionandquantificationofcollagen,MMP-2andMMP-9collagenasesexpression.(A)CollagendetectionbyPicroSiriusRedstaininginplacental tissues.(B)Thepercentcollagenareawasquantifiedinallcasesthatshowedadecreaseintheexpressionofcollagenininfectedplacentae.(C–E)Detectionof MMP-2andMMP-9indecidualcellsandcellslocatedwithinthechorionicvilliinbothcontrolandZIKVinfectedplacentae.(D–F)Quantificationofthenumberof cellsexpressingMMP-2andMMP-9showedanincreasedexpressioninZIKVinfectedplacentaltissues.Dataarerepresentedasmean±SDM.Asterisksindicate differencesthatarestatisticallysignificantbetweengroups(**p<0.01)or(***p<0.001). FIGURE7|BDNFdetectionandquantificationinplacentaltissues.(A–F)DetectionofBDNFincellsofchorionicvilliandmaternaldeciduaofcontrolsandZIKV infectedplacentaebyimmunohistochemistry.(G)AquantificationofthenumberofcellsexpressingBDNFshowedadecreasedintheexpressionofthishormonein ZIKV+MIC+cases.Dataarerepresentedasmean±SDM.Asterisksindicatedifferencesthatarestatisticallysignificantbetweengroups(**p<0.01). FrontiersinImmunology|www.frontiersin.org 11 September2020|Volume11|Article2146 fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #12 Rabeloetal. ZikaInducesInflammationinPlacenta non-pathognomonicandoftenhaveparticularcharacteristicsin ZIKVreplication(34).Inhumans,whilefewreportshaveshown differentpatients. thecellularprofileintheplacentafromZIKVinfectedmothers, Inadditiontoconfirmingthehistopathologicalmodifications ourobservationfromapregnancyofonly15weeksshowedthe associated with a ZIKV infection, we examined cells of the samecharacteristics(15).Anothercasereportthatpresentedas placentae at an ultrastructural level. The intracellular damage positiveforTCD8+ lymphocyteswasevenmoreexpressivefor caused by the virus was observed principally in mitochondria TCD4+(21),whichwasunlikeoursampleswherethenumberT of cytotrophoblasts. There also was an increase in the vesicles CD4+cellswereinsufficientforquantification. presentinthesyncytiotrophoblastsanditwasdifficulttodetect TheincreaseinmacrophagesandTCD8+ cellscharacterizes collagen filaments in the samples from infected patients. While a chronic inflammatory environment in the placenta, with different ultrastructural damage has been observed previously lesions such as deciduitis and villitis observed in all cases (35). with ZIKV infections, this is the first report on modifications Immunityisessentialforthedevelopmentofapregnancy,from in the structure of organelles in placental tissue obtained implantation to delivery, and it is now known that maternal from a human in vivo infection (4, 23). In addition to the immuneactivation(MIA)isdynamicandnormallyveryeffective organellar alterations, the presence of clusters of virus-like at preventing viral infections (36–38). However, ZIKV appears particles were identified positioned near to the endoplasmic to establish a placental infection that bypasses the MIA and reticulumofcytotrophoblasts. promotes inflammation. This environment can be initiated The viral antigens E and NS1 as well as the genomic throughthereleaseofpro-inflammatorycytokines,suchasTNF- RNA of ZIKV were detected in numerous cells throughout α and IFN-γ whose levels are exacerbated in this study, which the placentae, in both fetal or maternal portions that included induce chemotaxis and cellular activation that also increase trophoblasts. These results provide further proof that placental the expression of MHC-1 for even more intense actions by cells are susceptible and permissive to ZIKV infection, which cytotoxic lymphocytes. The evaluation of these cytokines was is consistent with the hypothesis that ZIKV can reach the prioritized in our study, since TNF-α is an evident cytokine in developing fetus by progressive cell to cell infections that can an inflammation process, while IFN-γ activity has already been penetratetheplacentalbarrier(4,15,21,24–27).Itisimportant associatedwithmicrocephalyinstudieswithneuronalcellsand to note that results presented here provides ample evidence patientsserum(39). that the ZIKV established a persistent, replicating infection ThelevelsofVEGFR-2receptorandRANTES/CCL5mediator in the placenta months after the reported onset of the acute were also elevated in the tissues studied, which can lead to infection based on the detection of virus by RT-PCR, electron an increase in vascular permeability and could cause a large microscopy and immunohistochemistry as well as markers of circulatory dysfunction as the fibrin deposits. Fibrin deposits replication from in situ
