fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #1
KEYWORDS: zikv, cells, doi, mic, placenta, zikv mic, placental, positive, placentae, infection, samples, infected, time, fetal, frontiersinimmunology


an increase in vascular permeability and could cause a large microscopy and immunohistochemistry as well as markers of circulatory dysfunction as the fibrin deposits. Fibrin deposits replication from in situ hybridization and viral antigens at the in the placenta can observed in cases of spontaneous abortion, momentofdelivery. prematurebirthandfetaldeath,whichsuggestsadirectaffecton Hofbauer cells and decidual macrophages are residents in thedevelopmentofthefetusandpregnancy(40).Theexpression the placenta that have a regulatory role in pregnancy to of VEGFR has already been related to other pathologies in the maintain a homeostatic environment, which is essential for placenta and RANTES/CCL5 has been previously observed in fetal development (28). We detected a large increase in the ZIKVplacentalinfection(15,31,41,42).Theirchangescanlead number of macrophages in placenta from infected mothers. toedemaandafailureinthedistributionofnutrientsaswellas Inaddition,fluorescencemicroscopycapturedcolocalizationof hormonesnecessarytomaintaintissuehomeostasis. ZIKV NS1 in CD163+ activated macrophages that suggested In our study, placental tissues infected with ZIKV showed a thesecellsweresitesofvirusreplication.Macrophageshavebeen largedecreaseintheexpressionofcollagen,whichcorroborated previouslyidentifiedasprincipaltargetsforZIKVinfectionand findings from the ultrastructural analysis and was consistent could provide a pathway for the vertical transmission of ZIKV with the higher production levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9 throughtheiractivationthatcanleadtoaprominentanddiffuse enzymes.Theextracellularmatrix(EM)providesanenvironment hyperplasia(15,21,29–31).InfectedCD163+ cellshavealready conducivetoplacentaldevelopment,regulatingcellularfunctions beensuggestedasoneofthefactorsassociatedwithvirusdelivery such as signaling, proliferation, migration and invasion. EM tothefetusthatleadtoZIKV-inducedfetaldamage(32). is composed of proteoglycans, glycosaminoglycans and has Inthesamplesanalyzedinthisstudy,wefoundanexpressive collagen as its main structural component. Most placental increase in the numbers of T CD8+ lymphocytes. Regla-Nava collagen is type III (around 60%), followed by type I collagen and colleagues suggested that the lack of T CD8+ cells, which (approximately 30%) and the other types are IV, V, and VI occursinmiceexhaustedbyapreviousinfection,suchasdengue (43, 44). MMPs play a role in the implantation, vasodilatation fever, could facilitate ZIKV infection (33). Most patients in our and separation of fetal membranes, developing a crucial role in study were IgG negative or not reactive for dengue suggesting collagen degradation according to the signaling by hormones that none were compromised by a previous infection that have (45, 46). It is known that the inflammatory environment leads facilitated their ZIKV infection. Even the exception, case 7, tothereleaseofMMPSbyimmunecells(47).Duetothehighly still had an increase in the migration of T CD8+ cells to inflammatoryenvironmentcausedbyZIKVinfection,itiscertain the placenta. This increase in T CD8+ lymphocytes has been thattheimmunecellshavesecretedandcausedthisincreasein observed in non-human primates after the decrease of viremia, MMPsandconsequentlythedegradationofcollagen,leadingto whichsuggestsaprotectiveroleforTCD8+ cellsincontrolling malefictissueremodelingforplacentalhomeostasis.Theincrease FrontiersinImmunology|www.frontiersin.org 12 September2020|Volume11|Article2146 fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #13 Rabeloetal. ZikaInducesInflammationinPlacenta in MMPs in infected placentas may have contributed to the DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT immaturityofthevilli. In all analyses of immune cells and cytokines profile, The raw data supporting the conclusions of this article will be there were no statistical
