fimmu-11-02146 August28,2020 Time:9:32 #1
KEYWORDS: zikv, cells, doi, mic, placenta, zikv mic, placental, positive, placentae, infection, samples, infected, time, fetal, frontiersinimmunology


to the DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT immaturityofthevilli. In all analyses of immune cells and cytokines profile, The raw data supporting the conclusions of this article will be there were no statistical differences observed between the madeavailablebytheauthors,withoutunduereservation. samples of ZIKV+MIC− and ZIKV+MIC+ groups. The only exceptionwastheIFN-γ,wheretherewasnodifferencebetween the ZIKV+MIC− group and the control, even though there ETHICS STATEMENT was an increase. Our results showed that there is a large inflammation response in the placenta from mothers with a The studies involving human participants were reviewed ZIKVinfection,butifithasaroleinthechangesinbrainfetal and approved by the Ethics Committee of the Oswaldo development,itissubtle. Cruz Foundation/FIOCRUZ (CAEE: 65924217.4.0000.5248) In the absence of a clear role for the inflammation response and the Faculty of Campos Medicine/Benedito Pereira in the presentation of microcephaly, the amount of placental Nunes Foundation (CAEE: 65924217.4.3001.5244). The BDNF, a factor described as a determinant for fetal brain patients/participantsprovidedtheirwritteninformedconsentto development, was evaluated (48, 49). BDNF is a neurotrophic participateinthisstudy.Writteninformedconsentwasobtained factorthatisproducedinplacentaltissueandplaysanimportant from the individual(s) for the publication of any potentially role in cytotrophoblast differentiation and proliferation (50, identifiableimagesordataincludedinthisarticle. 51). Additionally, this neurotrofin promotes neuronal growth and differentiation in the central and peripheral nervous system during fetal development (52, 53). The placentae of AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS patients infected with ZIKV, especially from the group that presentedinfantswithmicrocephaly,showedadecreaseinBDNF KRandMPdesignedtheresearchstudies.LS,LNM,LN,andLFM could serve as predictive marker for the extent of damage conductedtheexperiments.KRacquiredthedataandwrotethe during fetal brain development. However, it is important to manuscript.KR,EP,andMPanalyzedthedata.MP,JC,AT,RB-O, emphasize that BDNF would not act alone in the damage to andFSprovidedthereagents.DPandMPcontributedtoreading thedevelopmentofthefetalnervoussystem,sincetherewasno themanuscriptcritically.Allauthorsagreedwiththemanuscript. directrelationshipbetweentheamountofBDNFandthesizeof the head circumference. Other biomarkers must be discovered and related to those already mentioned in the literature for FUNDING elucidate fetal damage with direct infection to fetal neuronal cells(32,54). This work was supported by the CNPq (308780/2015-9) and the FAPERJ (E-26/110.511/2014, E-26/010.001.498/2016, E26/202.003/2016,andE-26/202.659/2019).ToCoordenaçãode CONCLUSION Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES) and CNPqforthestudentsfellowships.Thefundershadnoroleinthe As summarized in Graphical abstract, our work corroborates studydesign,datacollection,analysisanddecisiontopublish,or otherstudiesthatshowthatmanyplacentalcellsaresusceptible preparationofthemanuscript. and permissive to ZIKV infection. In addition, there is a large involvement of immune cells and pro-inflammatory cytokines in the infected tissue, leading to changes in activation and ACKNOWLEDGMENTS recruitment of circulating cells as well as alterations in the extracellular matrix and vascular permeability. Statistically, the We thank the Padre Miguel Clinics, Plantadores de Cana, and inflammatory response in the placenta did not have a straight Dr.BedaHospitalsforthecareofthepatientsandtheassistance impact on the presentation of microcephaly, subtle differences with sample collection. We are grateful for the assistance of were evident and an expanded study may uncover relevant the
