Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


CHAPTER 1 Functional Organization of the Human Body and Control of the “Internal Environment” Physiology is the science that seeks to explain the physi- Each type of cell is specially adapted to perform one cal and chemical mechanisms that are responsible for the or a few particular functions. For example, the red blood origin, development, and progression of life. Each type cells, numbering about 25 trillion in each person, trans- of life, from the simplest virus to the largest tree or the port oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. Although the complicated human being, has its own functional char- red blood cells are the most abundant of any single type of acteristics. Therefore, the vast field of physiology can be cell in the body, there are also trillions of additional cells divided into viral physiology, bacterial physiology, cellular of other types that perform functions different from those physiology, plant physiology, invertebrate physiology, ver- of the red blood cell. The entire body, then, contains about tebrate physiology, mammalian physiology, human physi- 35 to 40 trillion human cells. ology, and many more subdivisions. The many cells of the body often differ markedly from one another but all have certain basic characteristics that Human Physiology. The science of human physiology are alike. For example, oxygen reacts with carbohydrate, attempts to explain the specific characteristics and mech- fat, and protein to release the energy required for all cells anisms of the human body that make it a living being. The to function. Furthermore, the general chemical mecha- fact that we remain alive is the result of complex control nisms for changing nutrients into energy are basically systems. Hunger makes us seek food, and fear makes us the same in all cells, and all cells deliver products of their seek refuge. Sensations of cold make us look for warmth. chemical reactions into the surrounding fluids. Other forces cause us to seek fellowship and to reproduce. Almost all cells also have the ability to reproduce addi- The fact that we are sensing, feeling, and knowledgeable tional cells of their own type. Fortunately, when cells of a beings is part of this automatic sequence of life; these spe- particular type are destroyed, the remaining cells of this type cial attributes allow us to exist under widely varying con- usually generate new cells until the supply is replenished. ditions that otherwise would make life impossible. Human physiology
