Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


this type cial attributes allow us to exist under widely varying con- usually generate new cells until the supply is replenished. ditions that otherwise would make life impossible. Human physiology links the basic sciences with medicine Microorganisms Living in the Body Outnumber Hu- and integrates multiple functions of the cells, tissues, and man Cells. In addition to human cells, trillions of microbes organs into the functions of the living human being. This inte- inhabit the body, living on the skin and in the mouth, gut, gration requires communication and coordination by a vast and nose. The gastrointestinal tract, for example, normally array of control systems that operate at every level—from the contains a complex and dynamic population of 400 to 1000 genes that program synthesis of molecules to the complex species of microorganisms that outnumber our human nervous and hormonal systems that coordinate functions of cells. Communities of microorganisms that inhabit the cells, tissues, and organs throughout the body. Thus, the coor- body, often called microbiota, can cause diseases, but most dinated functions of the human body are much more than the of the time they live in harmony with their human hosts sum of its parts, and life in health, as well as in disease states, and provide vital functions that are essential for survival of relies on this total function. Although the main focus of this their hosts. Although the importance of gut microbiota in book is on normal human physiology, we will also discuss, the digestion of foodstuffs is widely recognized, additional to some extent, pathophysiology, which is the study of disor- roles for the body’s microbes in nutrition, immunity, and dered body function and the basis for clinical medicine. other functions are just beginning to be appreciated and represent an intensive area of biomedical research. CELLS ARE THE LIVING UNITS OF THE BODY EXTRACELLULAR FLUID—THE “INTERNAL ENVIRONMENT” The basic living unit of the body is the cell. Each tissue or organ is an aggregate of many different cells held together About 50% to 70% of the adult human body is fluid, mainly by intercellular supporting structures. a water solution of ions and other substances. Although 3 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology most of this fluid is inside the cells and is called intracellu- regulated, normally varying only a few millimoles per liter, lar fluid, about one- third is in
