Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


General Physiology most of this fluid is inside the cells and is called intracellu- regulated, normally varying only a few millimoles per liter, lar fluid, about one- third is in the spaces outside the cells even with large changes in sodium intake, but these varia- and is called extracellular fluid. This extracellular fluid is tions of sodium concentration are at least 1 million times in constant motion throughout the body. It is transported greater than for hydrogen ions. rapidly in the circulating blood and then mixed between Powerful control systems exist for maintaining concen- the blood and tissue fluids by diffusion through the capil- trations of sodium and hydrogen ions, as well as for most lary walls. of the other ions, nutrients, and substances in the body at In the extracellular fluid are the ions and nutrients levels that permit the cells, tissues, and organs to perform needed by the cells to maintain life. Thus, all cells live in their normal functions, despite wide environmental varia- essentially the same environment—the extracellular fluid. tions and challenges from injury and diseases. For this reason, the extracellular fluid is also called the Much of this text is concerned with how each organ or internal environment of the body, or the milieu intérieur, a tissue contributes to homeostasis. Normal body functions term introduced by the great 19th-c entury French physi- require integrated actions of cells, tissues, organs, and ologist Claude Bernard (1813–1878). multiple nervous, hormonal, and local control systems Cells are capable of living and performing their spe- that together contribute to homeostasis and good health. cial functions as long as the proper concentrations of oxygen, glucose, different ions, amino acids, fatty sub- Homeostatic Compensations in Diseases. Disease is stances, and other constituents are available in this inter- often considered to be a state of disrupted homeostasis. nal environment. However, even in the presence of disease, homeostatic mechanisms continue to operate and maintain vital func- Differences in Extracellular and Intracellular Fluids. tions through multiple compensations. In some cases, The extracellular fluid contains large amounts of sodium, these compensations may lead to major deviations of the chloride, and bicarbonate ions plus nutrients for the cells, body’s functions from the normal range, making it diffi- such as oxygen, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids. It cult to distinguish the primary cause of the disease from also contains carbon dioxide that is being transported the compensatory responses.
