Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as oxygen, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids. It cult to distinguish the primary cause of the disease from also contains carbon dioxide that is being transported the compensatory responses. For example, diseases that from the cells to the lungs to be excreted, plus other cel- impair the kidneys’ ability to excrete salt and water may lular waste products that are being transported to the kid- lead to high blood pressure, which initially helps return neys for excretion. excretion to normal so that a balance between intake and The intracellular fluid contains large amounts of potas- renal excretion can be maintained. This balance is needed sium, magnesium, and phosphate ions instead of the to maintain life, but, over long periods of time, the high sodium and chloride ions found in the extracellular fluid. blood pressure can damage various organs, including the Special mechanisms for transporting ions through the cell kidneys, causing even greater increases in blood pressure membranes maintain the ion concentration differences and more renal damage. Thus, homeostatic compensa- between the extracellular and intracellular fluids. These tions that ensue after injury, disease, or major environ- transport processes are discussed in Chapter 4. mental challenges to the body may represent trade-o ffs that are necessary to maintain vital body functions but, HOMEOSTASIS—MAINTENANCE OF in the long term, contribute to additional abnormalities A NEARLY CONSTANT INTERNAL of body function. The discipline of pathophysiology seeks ENVIRONMENT to explain how the various physiological processes are al- tered in diseases or injury. In 1929, the American physiologist Walter Cannon This chapter outlines the different functional systems (1871–1945) coined the term homeostasis to describe the of the body and their contributions to homeostasis. We maintenance of nearly constant conditions in the internal then briefly discuss the basic theory of the body’s control environment. Essentially, all organs and tissues of the body systems that allow the functional systems to operate in perform functions that help maintain these relatively con- support of one another. stant conditions. For example, the lungs provide oxygen to the extracellular fluid to replenish the oxygen used by EXTRACELLULAR FLUID TRANSPORT the cells, the kidneys maintain constant ion concentra- AND MIXING SYSTEM—THE BLOOD tions, and the gastrointestinal system provides nutrients CIRCULATORY SYSTEM while eliminating waste from the body. The various ions, nutrients, waste products, and other Extracellular fluid is transported through the body in two constituents of the body are normally regulated within
