Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


eliminating waste from the body. The various ions, nutrients, waste products, and other Extracellular fluid is transported through the body in two constituents of the body are normally regulated within a stages. The first stage is movement of blood through the range of values, rather than at fixed values. For some of the body in the blood vessels. The second is movement of body’s constituents, this range is extremely small. Varia- fluid between the blood capillaries and the intercellular tions in the blood hydrogen ion concentration, for exam- spaces between the tissue cells. ple, are normally less than 5 nanomoles/L (0.000000005 Figure 1-1 shows the overall circulation of blood. All the moles/L). The blood sodium concentration is also tightly blood in the circulation traverses the entire circuit an average 4 Chapter 1 Functional Organization of the Human Body and Control of the “Internal Environment” Lungs Arteriole CO O 2 2 Right Left heart heart pump pump Venule Gut Figure 1-2. Diffusion of fluid and dissolved constituents through the capillary walls and interstitial spaces. Nutrition That is, the fluid and dissolved molecules are continually and excretion moving and bouncing in all directions in the plasma and fluid in the intercellular spaces, as well as through capil- lary pores. Few cells are located more than 50 microm- eters from a capillary, which ensures diffusion of almost any substance from the capillary to the cell within a few Kidneys seconds. Thus, the extracellular fluid everywhere in the body—both that of the plasma and that of the interstitial fluid—is continually being mixed, thereby maintaining homogeneity of extracellular fluid throughout the body. Regulation ORIGIN OF NUTRIENTS IN THE of Excretion EXTRACELLULAR FLUID electrolytes Respiratory System. Figure 1-1 shows that each time blood passes through the body, it also flows through the Venous end Arterial end lungs. The blood picks up oxygen in alveoli, thus acquiring the oxygen needed by cells. The membrane between the alveoli and the lumen of the pulmonary capillaries, the alveolar membrane, is only 0.4 to 2.0 micrometers thick, and oxygen rapidly diffuses by molecular motion through Capillaries this membrane into the blood. Figure 1-1. General organization of the circulatory system. Gastrointestinal Tract. A large portion of the blood pumped by the heart also passes through the walls of the gastrointes- of once each minute when the body is at rest and as many tinal tract. Here different dissolved nutrients, including car-
