Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


heart also passes through the walls of the gastrointes- of once each minute when the body is at rest and as many tinal tract. Here different dissolved nutrients, including car- as six times each minute when a person is extremely active. bohydrates, fatty acids, and amino acids, are absorbed from As blood passes through blood capillaries, continual ingested food into the extracellular fluid of the blood. exchange of extracellular fluid occurs between the plasma portion of the blood and the interstitial fluid that fills the Liver and Other Organs That Perform Primarily Meta- intercellular spaces. This process is shown in Figure 1-2. bolic Functions. Not all substances absorbed from the The capillary walls are permeable to most molecules in gastrointestinal tract can be used in their absorbed form the blood plasma, with the exception of plasma proteins, by the cells. The liver changes the chemical compositions which are too large to pass through capillaries readily. of many of these substances to more usable forms, and Therefore, large amounts of fluid and its dissolved con- other tissues of the body—fat cells, gastrointestinal mu- stituents diffuse back and forth between the blood and the cosa, kidneys, and endocrine glands—help modify the tissue spaces, as shown by the arrows in Figure 1-2. absorbed substances or store them until they are needed. This process of diffusion is caused by kinetic motion The liver also eliminates certain waste products produced of the molecules in the plasma and the interstitial fluid. in the body and toxic substances that are ingested. 5 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Musculoskeletal System. How does the musculoskeletal performs in response to the sensations. Appropriate sig- system contribute to homeostasis? The answer is obvious nals are then transmitted through the motor output por- and simple. Were it not for the muscles, the body could tion of the nervous system to carry out one’s desires. not move to obtain the foods required for nutrition. The An important segment of the nervous system is called musculoskeletal system also provides motility for protec- the autonomic system. It operates at a subconscious level tion against adverse surroundings, without which the en- and controls many functions of internal organs, including tire body, along with its homeostatic mechanisms, could the level of pumping activity by the heart, movements of be destroyed. the gastrointestinal tract, and secretion by many of the body’s
