Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tire body, along with its homeostatic mechanisms, could the level of pumping activity by the heart, movements of be destroyed. the gastrointestinal tract, and secretion by many of the body’s glands. REMOVAL OF METABOLIC END PRODUCTS Hormone Systems. Located in the body are endocrine Removal of Carbon Dioxide by the Lungs. At the same glands, organs and tissues that secrete chemical sub- time that blood picks up oxygen in the lungs, carbon di- stances called hormones. Hormones are transported in oxide is released from the blood into lung alveoli; the res- the extracellular fluid to other parts of the body to help piratory movement of air into and out of the lungs carries regulate cellular function. For example, thyroid hormone carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is the increases the rates of most chemical reactions in all cells, most abundant of all the metabolism products. thus helping set the tempo of bodily activity. Insulin con- trols glucose metabolism, adrenocortical hormones con- Kidneys. Passage of blood through the kidneys removes trol sodium and potassium ions and protein metabolism, most of the other substances from the plasma besides car- and parathyroid hormone controls bone calcium and bon dioxide that are not needed by cells. These substanc- phosphate. Thus, the hormones provide a regulatory sys- es include different end products of cellular metabolism, tem that complements the nervous system. The nervous such as urea and uric acid; they also include excesses of system controls many muscular and secretory activities ions and water from the food that accumulate in the ex- of the body, whereas the hormonal system regulates many tracellular fluid. metabolic functions. The nervous and hormonal systems The kidneys perform their function first by filtering normally work together in a coordinated manner to con- large quantities of plasma through the glomerular capil- trol essentially all the organ systems of the body. laries into the tubules and then reabsorbing into the blood substances needed by the body, such as glucose, amino PROTECTION OF THE BODY acids, appropriate amounts of water, and many of the ions. Most of the other substances that are not needed Immune System. The immune system includes white by the body, especially metabolic waste products such blood cells, tissue cells derived from white blood cells, the as urea and creatinine, are reabsorbed poorly and pass thymus, lymph nodes, and lymph vessels that protect the through the renal tubules into
