Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cells derived from white blood cells, the as urea and creatinine, are reabsorbed poorly and pass thymus, lymph nodes, and lymph vessels that protect the through the renal tubules into the urine. body from pathogens such as bacteria, viruses, parasites, and fungi. The immune system provides a mechanism for Gastrointestinal Tract. Undigested material that enters the body to carry out the following: (1) distinguish its own the gastrointestinal tract and some waste products of me- cells from harmful foreign cells and substances; and (2) tabolism are eliminated in the feces. destroy the invader by phagocytosis or by producing sensi- tized lymphocytes or specialized proteins (e.g., antibodies) Liver. Among the many functions of the liver is detoxifi- that destroy or neutralize the invader. cation or removal of ingested drugs and chemicals. The liver secretes many of these wastes into the bile to be Integumentary System. The skin and its various ap- eventually eliminated in the feces. pendages (including the hair, nails, glands, and other structures) cover, cushion, and protect the deeper tissues REGULATION OF BODY FUNCTIONS and organs of the body and generally provide a bound- ary between the body’s internal environment and the out- Nervous System. The nervous system is composed of side world. The integumentary system is also important three major parts—the sensory input portion, the central for temperature regulation and excretion of wastes, and nervous system (or integrative portion), and the motor out- it provides a sensory interface between the body and the put portion. Sensory receptors detect the state of the body external environment. The skin generally comprises about and its surroundings. For example, receptors in the skin 12% to 15% of body weight. alert us whenever an object touches the skin. The eyes are sensory organs that give us a visual image of the sur- REPRODUCTION rounding area. The ears are also sensory organs. The cen- tral nervous system is composed of the brain and spinal Although reproduction is sometimes not considered a cord. The brain stores information, generates thoughts, homeostatic function, it helps maintain homeostasis by creates ambition, and determines reactions that the body generating new beings to take the place of those that are 6 Chapter 1 Functional Organization of the Human Body and Control of the “Internal Environment” dying. This may sound like a permissive usage of the term Reference set point homeostasis, but it illustrates that in the final analysis, essentially all
