Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Control of the “Internal Environment” dying. This may sound like a permissive usage of the term Reference set point homeostasis, but it illustrates that in the final analysis, essentially all body structures are organized to help main- Error signal Effectors tain the automaticity and continuity of life. Brain medulla Sympathetic Blood vessels Vasomotor nervous system Heart centers CONTROL SYSTEMS OF THE BODY The human body has thousands of control systems. Some Feedback signal of the most intricate of these systems are genetic control systems that operate in all cells to help regulate intracel- Baroreceptors Arterial pressure lular and extracellular functions. This subject is discussed in Chapter 3. Sensor Controlled variable Many other control systems operate within the organs Figure 1-3. Negative feedback control of arterial pressure by the ar- to regulate functions of the individual parts of the organs; terial baroreceptors. Signals from the sensor (baroreceptors) are sent others operate throughout the entire body to control the to the medulla of the brain, where they are compared with a refer- ence set point. When arterial pressure increases above normal, this interrelationships between the organs. For example, the abnormal pressure increases nerve impulses from the baroreceptors respiratory system, operating in association with the to the medulla of the brain, where the input signals are compared nervous system, regulates the concentration of carbon with the set point, generating an error signal that leads to decreased dioxide in the extracellular fluid. The liver and pancreas sympathetic nervous system activity. Decreased sympathetic activity control glucose concentration in the extracellular fluid, causes dilation of blood vessels and reduced pumping activity of the heart, which return arterial pressure toward normal. and the kidneys regulate concentrations of hydrogen, sodium, potassium, phosphate, and other ions in the extracellular fluid. Regulation of Arterial Blood Pressure. Several systems contribute to arterial blood pressure regulation. One of EXAMPLES OF CONTROL MECHANISMS these, the baroreceptor system, is an excellent example of a rapidly acting control mechanism (Figure 1-3). In the Regulation of Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Concen- walls of the bifurcation region of the carotid arteries in trations in the Extracellular Fluid. Because oxygen is the neck, and also in the arch of the aorta in the thorax, one of the major substances required for chemical reac- are many nerve receptors called baroreceptors that are tions in cells, the body has a special control mechanism to stimulated by stretch of the arterial
