Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


substances required for chemical reac- are many nerve receptors called baroreceptors that are tions in cells, the body has a special control mechanism to stimulated by stretch of the arterial wall. When arterial maintain an almost exact and constant oxygen concentra- pressure rises too high, the baroreceptors send barrages tion in the extracellular fluid. This mechanism depends of nerve impulses to the medulla of the brain. Here, these principally on the chemical characteristics of hemoglobin, impulses inhibit the vasomotor center, which in turn de- which is present in red blood cells. Hemoglobin com- creases the number of impulses transmitted from the bines with oxygen as the blood passes through the lungs. vasomotor center through the sympathetic nervous sys- Then, as the blood passes through the tissue capillaries, tem to the heart and blood vessels. Lack of these impulses hemoglobin, because of its own strong chemical affinity causes diminished pumping activity by the heart and dila- for oxygen, does not release oxygen into the tissue fluid tion of peripheral blood vessels, allowing increased blood if too much oxygen is already there. However, if oxygen flow through the vessels. Both these effects decrease the concentration in the tissue fluid is too low, sufficient oxy- arterial pressure, moving it back toward normal. gen is released to re-e stablish an adequate concentration. Conversely, a decrease in arterial pressure below nor- Thus, regulation of oxygen concentration in the tissues mal relaxes the stretch receptors, allowing the vasomotor relies to a great extent on the chemical characteristics of center to become more active than usual, thereby causing hemoglobin. This regulation is called the oxygen- buffering vasoconstriction and increased heart pumping. The initial function of hemoglobin. decrease in arterial pressure thus initiates negative feed- Carbon dioxide concentration in the extracellular fluid back mechanisms that raise arterial pressure back toward is regulated in a much different way. Carbon dioxide is a normal. major end product of oxidative reactions in cells. If all the Normal Ranges and Physical carbon dioxide formed in the cells continued to accumu- Characteristics of Important Extracellular late in the tissue fluids, all energy- giving reactions of the Fluid Constituents cells would cease. Fortunately, a higher than normal car- bon dioxide concentration in the blood excites the respira- Table 1-1 lists some important constituents and physical tory center, causing a person to breathe rapidly and deeply. characteristics of extracellular fluid, along with their nor- This
