Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


if potassium ion concentration increases pressure, or a low pressure causes a series of reactions that to two or more times normal, the heart muscle is likely promote increased pressure. In both cases, these effects to be severely depressed. Also, when the calcium ion are negative with respect to the initiating stimulus. concentration falls below about one- half normal, a per- Therefore, in general, if some factor becomes exces- son is likely to experience tetanic contraction of muscles sive or deficient, a control system initiates negative feed- throughout the body because of the spontaneous genera- back, which consists of a series of changes that return tion of excess nerve impulses in peripheral nerves. When the factor toward a certain mean value, thus maintaining the glucose concentration falls below one-h alf normal, a homeostasis. person frequently exhibits extreme mental irritability and sometimes even has convulsions. Gain of a Control System. The degree of effectiveness These examples should give one an appreciation for with which a control system maintains constant condi- the necessity of the vast numbers of control systems that tions is determined by the gain of negative feedback. keep the body operating in health. In the absence of any For example, let us assume that a large volume of blood one of these controls, serious body malfunction or death is transfused into a person whose baroreceptor pressure can result. control system is not functioning, and the arterial pres- sure rises from the normal level of 100 mm Hg up to 175 CHARACTERISTICS OF CONTROL SYSTEMS mm Hg. Then, let us assume that the same volume of blood is injected into the same person when the barore- The aforementioned examples of homeostatic control ceptor system is functioning, and this time the pressure mechanisms are only a few of the many thousands in the increases by only 25 mm Hg. Thus, the feedback control body, all of which have some common characteristics, as system has caused a “correction” of −50 mm Hg, from explained in this section. 175 mm Hg to 125 mm Hg. There remains an increase in pressure of +25 mm Hg, called the “error,” which means Negative Feedback Nature of Most that the control system is not 100% effective in preventing Control Systems change. The gain of the system is then calculated by using Most control systems of the body act by negative feed- the following formula: Correction back,
