Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in preventing Control Systems change. The gain of the system is then calculated by using Most control systems of the body act by negative feed- the following formula: Correction back, which can be explained by reviewing some of the Gain = homeostatic control systems mentioned previously. In Error the regulation of carbon dioxide concentration, a high Thus, in the baroreceptor system example, the correc- concentration of carbon dioxide in the extracellular fluid tion is −50 mm Hg, and the error persisting is +25 mm Hg. increases pulmonary ventilation. This, in turn, decreases Therefore, the gain of the person’s baroreceptor system 8 Chapter 1 Functional Organization of the Human Body and Control of the “Internal Environment” 5 overcome by the negative feedback control mechanisms of the body, and the vicious cycle then fails to develop. Return to For example, if the person in the aforementioned example 4 normal bleeds only 1 liter instead of 2 liters, the normal negative Bled 1 liter feedback mechanisms for controlling cardiac output and 3 arterial pressure can counterbalance the positive feedback and the person can recover, as shown by the dashed curve Bled 2 liters of Figure 1-4. 2 Positive Feedback Can Sometimes Be Useful. The body 1 sometimes uses positive feedback to its advantage. Blood clotting is an example of a valuable use of positive feed- Death back. When a blood vessel is ruptured, and a clot begins to 0 form, multiple enzymes called clotting factors are activated 1 2 3 within the clot. Some of these enzymes act on other inac- Hours tivated enzymes of the immediately adjacent blood, thus Figure 1-4. Recovery of heart pumping caused by negative feedback causing more blood clotting. This process continues until after 1 liter of blood is removed from the circulation. Death is caused by positive feedback when 2 liters or more blood is removed. the hole in the vessel is plugged and bleeding no longer occurs. On occasion, this mechanism can get out of hand for control of arterial pressure is −50 divided by +25, or and cause formation of unwanted clots. In fact, this is what −2. That is, a disturbance that increases or decreases the initiates most acute heart attacks, which can be caused by arterial pressure does so only one-third as much as would a clot beginning on the inside surface of an atherosclerotic occur if this control system were not present.
