Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


caused by arterial pressure does so only one-third as much as would a clot beginning on the inside surface of an atherosclerotic occur if this control system were not present. plaque in a coronary artery and then growing until the ar- The gains of some other physiological control systems tery is blocked. are much greater than that of the baroreceptor system. Childbirth is another situation in which positive feed- For example, the gain of the system controlling internal back is valuable. When uterine contractions become body temperature when a person is exposed to moder- strong enough for the baby’s head to begin pushing ately cold weather is about −33. Therefore, one can see through the cervix, stretching of the cervix sends signals that the temperature control system is much more effec- through the uterine muscle back to the body of the uterus, tive than the baroreceptor pressure control system. causing even more powerful contractions. Thus, the uter- ine contractions stretch the cervix, and cervical stretch Positive Feedback May Cause Vicious causes stronger contractions. When this process becomes Cycles and Death powerful enough, the baby is born. If they are not pow- Why do most control systems of the body operate by erful enough, the contractions usually die out, and a few negative feedback rather than by positive feedback? If days pass before they begin again. one considers the nature of positive feedback, it is obvi- Another important use of positive feedback is for the ous that positive feedback leads to instability rather than generation of nerve signals. Stimulation of the mem- stability and, in some cases, can cause death. brane of a nerve fiber causes slight leakage of sodium ions Figure 1-4 shows an example in which death can ensue through sodium channels in the nerve membrane to the from positive feedback. This figure depicts the pumping fiber’s interior. The sodium ions entering the fiber then effectiveness of the heart, showing the heart of a healthy change the membrane potential, which, in turn, causes human pumping about 5 liters of blood per minute. If the more opening of channels, more change of potential, still person suddenly bleeds a total of 2 liters, the amount of more opening of channels, and so forth. Thus, a slight leak blood in the body is decreased to such a low level that becomes an explosion of sodium entering the interior of not enough blood
