Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


so forth. Thus, a slight leak blood in the body is decreased to such a low level that becomes an explosion of sodium entering the interior of not enough blood is available for the heart to pump effec- the nerve fiber, which creates the nerve action potential. tively. As a result, the arterial pressure falls, and the flow This action potential, in turn, causes electrical current to of blood to the heart muscle through the coronary ves- flow along the outside and inside of the fiber and initiates sels diminishes. This scenario results in weakening of the additional action potentials. This process continues until heart, further diminished pumping, a further decrease the nerve signal goes all the way to the end of the fiber. in coronary blood flow, and still more weakness of the In each case in which positive feedback is useful, the heart; the cycle repeats itself again and again until death positive feedback is part of an overall negative feedback occurs. Note that each cycle in the feedback results in process. For example, in the case of blood clotting, the further weakening of the heart. In other words, the initi- positive feedback clotting process is a negative feedback ating stimulus causes more of the same, which is positive process for the maintenance of normal blood volume. feedback. Also, the positive feedback that causes nerve signals Positive feedback is sometimes known as a “vicious allows the nerves to participate in thousands of negative cycle,” but a mild degree of positive feedback can be feedback nervous control systems. 9 traeh fo ssenevitceffe gnipmuP )etunim rep depmup sretiL( UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology More Complex Types of Control for understanding normal physiology as well as for treat- Systems—Feed-F orward and Adaptive ment of diseases. Control Age- related and ethnic or racial differences in physiol- Later in this text, when we study the nervous system, we ogy also have important influences on body composition, shall see that this system contains great numbers of inter- physiological control systems, and pathophysiology of connected control mechanisms. Some are simple feedback diseases. For example, in a lean young male the total body systems similar to those already discussed. Many are not. water is about 60% of body weight. As a person grows and For example, some movements of the body occur so rap- ages, this percentage gradually decreases,
