Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Many are not. water is about 60% of body weight. As a person grows and For example, some movements of the body occur so rap- ages, this percentage gradually decreases, partly because idly that there is not enough time for nerve signals to travel aging is usually associated with declining skeletal muscle from the peripheral parts of the body all the way to the mass and increasing fat mass. Aging may also cause a brain and then back to the periphery again to control the decline in the function and effectiveness of some organs movement. Therefore, the brain uses a mechanism called and physiological control systems. feed- forward control to cause required muscle contrac- These sources of physiological variability—sex differ- tions. Sensory nerve signals from the moving parts apprise ences, aging, ethnic, and racial—are complex but impor- the brain about whether the movement is performed cor- tant considerations when discussing normal physiology rectly. If not, the brain corrects the feed-f orward signals and the pathophysiology of diseases. that it sends to the muscles the next time the movement is required. Then, if still further correction is necessary, SUMMARY—AUTOMATICITY OF THE this process will be performed again for subsequent move- BODY ments. This process is called adaptive control. Adaptive control, in a sense, is delayed negative feedback. The main purpose of this chapter has been to discuss Thus, one can see how complex the feedback control briefly the overall organization of the body and the means systems of the body can be. A person’s life depends on all whereby the different parts of the body operate in har- of them. Therefore, much of this text is devoted to dis- mony. To summarize, the body is actually a social order of cussing these life- giving mechanisms. about 35 to 40 trillion cells organized into different func- tional structures, some of which are called organs. Each PHYSIOLOGICAL VARIABILITY functional structure contributes its share to the mainte- nance of homeostasis in the extracellular fluid, which is Although some physiological variables, such as plasma called the internal environment. As long as normal con- concentrations of potassium, calcium, and hydrogen ditions are maintained in this internal environment, the ions, are tightly regulated, others, such as body weight cells of the body continue to live and function properly. and adiposity, show wide variation among different indi- Each cell benefits from homeostasis and, in turn, each viduals and
