Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


weight cells of the body continue to live and function properly. and adiposity, show wide variation among different indi- Each cell benefits from homeostasis and, in turn, each viduals and even in the same individual at different stages cell contributes its share toward the maintenance of of life. Blood pressure, cardiac pumping, metabolic rate, homeostasis. This reciprocal interplay provides continu- nervous system activity, hormones, and other physi- ous automaticity of the body until one or more functional ological variables change throughout the day as we move systems lose their ability to contribute their share of func- about and engage in normal daily activities. Therefore, tion. When this happens, all the cells of the body suffer. when we discuss “normal” values, it is with the under- Extreme dysfunction leads to death; moderate dysfunc- standing that many of the body’s control systems are con- tion leads to sickness. stantly reacting to perturbations, and that variability may exist among different individuals, depending on body Bibliography weight and height, diet, age, sex, environment, genetics, and other factors. Adolph EF: Physiological adaptations: hypertrophies and superfunc- For simplicity, discussion of physiological functions tions. Am Sci 60:608, 1972. Bentsen MA, Mirzadeh Z, Schwartz MW: Revisiting how the brain often focuses on the “average” 70- kg young, lean male. senses glucose-and why. Cell Metab 29:11, 2019. However, the American male no longer weighs an aver- Bernard C: Lectures on the Phenomena of Life Common to Animals age of 70 kg; he now weighs over 88 kg, and the average and Plants. Springfield, IL: Charles C Thomas, 1974. American female weighs over 76 kg, more than the aver- Cannon WB: Organization for physiological homeostasis. Physiol Rev age man in the 1960s. Body weight has also increased sub- 9:399, 1929. Chien S: Mechanotransduction and endothelial cell homeostasis: the stantially in most other industrialized countries during wisdom of the cell. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 292:H1209, 2007. the past 40 to 50 years. DiBona GF: Physiology in perspective: the wisdom of the body. Neu- Except for reproductive and hormonal functions, ral control of the kidney. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol many other physiological functions and normal values 289:R633, 2005. are often discussed in terms of male physiology. However, Dickinson MH, Farley CT, Full RJ, et al: How animals move: an integra- tive view. Science 288:100, 2000. there are clearly differences in male and female physiology Eckel-Mahan K, Sassone-Corsi
