Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


body’s hereditary code, the cytoskeletons of cellular organelles such as cilia, nerve which controls the substances synthesized by the cells axons, the mitotic spindles of cells undergoing mitosis, and permits them to make copies of themselves. and a tangled mass of thin filamentous tubules that hold the parts of the cytoplasm and nucleoplasm together in ORGANIZATION OF THE CELL their respective compartments. Fibrillar proteins are found outside the cell, especially in the collagen and elas- A schematic drawing of a typical cell, as seen by the light tin fibers of connective tissue, and elsewhere, such as in microscope, is shown in Figure 2-1. Its two major parts blood vessel walls, tendons, and ligaments. are the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The nucleus is sepa- The functional proteins are usually composed of com- rated from the cytoplasm by a nuclear membrane, and the binations of a few molecules in tubular- globular form. cytoplasm is separated from the surrounding fluids by a These proteins are mainly the enzymes of the cell and, in cell membrane, also called the plasma membrane. contrast to the fibrillar proteins, are often mobile in the The different substances that make up the cell are cell fluid. Also, many of them are adherent to membra- collectively called protoplasm. Protoplasm is composed nous structures inside the cell and catalyze specific intra- mainly of five basic substances—water, electrolytes, pro- cellular chemical reactions. For example, the chemical teins, lipids, and carbohydrates. reactions that split glucose into its component parts and then combine these with oxygen to form carbon diox- Water. Most cells, except for fat cells, are comprised ide and water while simultaneously providing energy for mainly of water in a concentration of 70% to 85%. Many cellular function are all catalyzed by a series of protein cellular chemicals are dissolved in the water. Others are enzymes. suspended in the water as solid particulates. Chemical re- actions take place among the dissolved chemicals or at the Lipids. Lipids are several types of substances that are surfaces of the suspended particles or membranes. grouped together because of their common property of being soluble in fat solvents. Especially important lipids Ions. Important ions in the cell include potassium, magne- sium, phosphate, sulfate, bicarbonate, and smaller quanti- ties of sodium, chloride, and calcium. These ions are all Cell discussed in Chapter 4, which considers the interrelations membrane between the intracellular and extracellular fluids. The ions
