Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


smaller quanti- ties of sodium, chloride, and calcium. These ions are all Cell discussed in Chapter 4, which considers the interrelations membrane between the intracellular and extracellular fluids. The ions provide inorganic chemicals for cellular reac- Cytoplasm tions and are necessary for the operation of some cellular Nucleolus Nucleoplasm control mechanisms. For example, ions acting at the cell Nuclear membrane are required for the transmission of electro- membrane Nucleus chemical impulses in nerve and muscle fibers. Proteins. After water, the most abundant substances in most cells are proteins, which normally constitute 10% to Figure 2-1. Illustration of cell structures visible with a light microscope. 13 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Chromosomes and DNA Centrioles Secretory granule Golgi apparatus Microtubules Nuclear membrane Cell membrane Nucleolus Glycogen Ribosomes Lysosome Mitochondrion Rough (granular) Smooth (agranular) Microfilaments endoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum reticulum Figure 2-2. Reconstruction of a typical cell, showing the internal organelles in the cytoplasm and nucleus. are phospholipids and cholesterol, which together consti- that it is readily available to the cell. Also, a small amount tute only about 2% of the total cell mass. Phospholipids of carbohydrate is stored in cells as glycogen, an insoluble and cholesterol are mainly insoluble in water and there- polymer of glucose that can be depolymerized and used fore are used to form the cell membrane and intracellular rapidly to supply the cell’s energy needs. membrane barriers that separate the different cell com- partments. CELL STRUCTURE In addition to phospholipids and cholesterol, some cells contain large quantities of triglycerides, also called The cell contains highly organized physical structures neutral fats. In fat cells (adipocytes), triglycerides often called intracellular organelles, which are critical for cell account for as much as 95% of the cell mass. The fat stored function. For example, without one of the organelles, the in these cells represents the body’s main storehouse of mitochondria, more than 95% of the cell’s energy release energy- giving nutrients that can later be used to provide from nutrients would cease immediately. The most energy wherever it is needed in the body. important organelles and other structures of the cell are shown in Figure 2-2. Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates play a major role in cell nutrition and, as parts of glycoprotein molecules, have MEMBRANOUS STRUCTURES OF THE CELL structural functions. Most human cells do not maintain large stores of carbohydrates; the amount usually averages Most organelles
