Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and, as parts of glycoprotein molecules, have MEMBRANOUS STRUCTURES OF THE CELL structural functions. Most human cells do not maintain large stores of carbohydrates; the amount usually averages Most organelles of the cell are covered by membranes only about 1% of their total mass but increases to as much composed primarily of lipids and proteins. These mem- as 3% in muscle cells and, occasionally, to 6% in liver cells. branes include the cell membrane, nuclear membrane, However, carbohydrate in the form of dissolved glucose membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum, and membranes is always present in the surrounding extracellular fluid so of the mitochondria, lysosomes, and Golgi apparatus. 14 Chapter 2 The Cell and Its Functions Carbohydrate Extracellular fluid Integral protein Lipid bilayer Peripheral protein Intracellular fluid Cytoplasm Integral protein Figure 2-3. Structure of the cell membrane showing that it is composed mainly of a lipid bilayer of phospholipid molecules, but with large numbers of protein molecules protruding through the layer. Also, carbohydrate moieties are attached to the protein molecules on the outside of the membrane and to additional protein molecules on the inside. The lipids in membranes provide a barrier that continuous over the entire cell surface. Interspersed in impedes movement of water and water- soluble sub- this lipid film are large globular proteins. stances from one cell compartment to another because The basic lipid bilayer is composed of three main types water is not soluble in lipids. However, protein mole- of lipids—phospholipids, sphingolipids, and cholesterol. cules often penetrate all the way through membranes, Phospholipids are the most abundant cell membrane thus providing specialized pathways, often organized lipids. One end of each phospholipid molecule is hydro- into actual pores, for passage of specific substances philic and soluble in water. The other end is hydropho- through membranes. Also, many other membrane bic and soluble only in fats. The phosphate end of the proteins are enzymes, which catalyze a multitude of phospholipid is hydrophilic, and the fatty acid portion is different chemical reactions, discussed here and in sub- hydrophobic. sequent chapters. Because the hydrophobic portions of the phospholipid molecules are repelled by water but are mutually attracted Cell Membrane to one another, they have a natural tendency to attach to The cell membrane (also called the plasma membrane) one another in the middle of the membrane, as shown in envelops the cell and is a thin, pliable, elastic structure Figure 2-3. The
