Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


membrane (also called the plasma membrane) one another in the middle of the membrane, as shown in envelops the cell and is a thin, pliable, elastic structure Figure 2-3. The hydrophilic phosphate portions then con- only 7.5 to 10 nanometers thick. It is composed almost stitute the two surfaces of the complete cell membrane, in entirely of proteins and lipids. The approximate composi- contact with intracellular water on the inside of the mem- tion is 55% proteins, 25% phospholipids, 13% cholesterol, brane and extracellular water on the outside surface. 4% other lipids, and 3% carbohydrates. The lipid layer in the middle of the membrane is impermeable to the usual water- soluble substances, such The Cell Membrane Lipid Barrier Impedes Penetra- as ions, glucose, and urea. Conversely, fat- soluble sub- tion by Water- Soluble Substances. Figure 2-3 shows stances, such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and alcohol, can the structure of the cell membrane. Its basic structure penetrate this portion of the membrane with ease. is a lipid bilayer, which is a thin, double-l ayered film Sphingolipids, derived from the amino alcohol sphin- of lipids—each layer only one molecule thick—that is gosine, also have hydrophobic and hydrophilic groups and 15 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology are present in small amounts in the cell membranes, espe- these molecules almost invariably protrude to the outside cially nerve cells. Complex sphingolipids in cell mem- of the cell, dangling outward from the cell surface. Many branes are thought to serve several functions, including other carbohydrate compounds, called proteoglycans— protection from harmful environmental factors, signal which are mainly carbohydrates bound to small protein transmission, and adhesion sites for extracellular proteins. cores—are loosely attached to the outer surface of the cell Cholesterol molecules in membranes are also lipids as well. Thus, the entire outside surface of the cell often because their steroid nuclei are highly fat- soluble. These has a loose carbohydrate coat called the glycocalyx. molecules, in a sense, are dissolved in the bilayer of the The carbohydrate moieties attached to the outer sur- membrane. They mainly help determine the degree of face of the cell have several important functions: permeability (or impermeability) of the bilayer to water- 1. Many of them have a negative electrical charge, soluble constituents of body fluids. Cholesterol controls which gives most cells an overall negative surface much of the fluidity of the membrane as
