Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of them have a negative electrical charge, soluble constituents of body fluids. Cholesterol controls which gives most cells an overall negative surface much of the fluidity of the membrane as well. charge that repels other negatively charged objects. 2. The glycocalyx of some cells attaches to the glycoca- Integral and Peripheral Cell Membrane Proteins. lyx of other cells, thus attaching cells to one another. Figure 2-3 also shows globular masses floating in the 3. Many of the carbohydrates act as receptors for bind- lipid bilayer. These membrane proteins are mainly glyco- ing hormones, such as insulin. When bound, this proteins. There are two types of cell membrane proteins, combination activates attached internal proteins that integral proteins, which protrude all the way through in turn activate a cascade of intracellular enzymes. the membrane, and peripheral proteins, which are 4. Some carbohydrate moieties enter into immune re- attached only to one surface of the membrane and do actions, as discussed in Chapter 35. not penetrate all the way through. Many of the integral proteins provide structural chan- CYTOPLASM AND ITS ORGANELLES nels (or pores) through which water molecules and water- soluble substances, especially ions, can diffuse between The cytoplasm is filled with minute and large dispersed extracellular and intracellular fluids. These protein chan- particles and organelles. The jelly-l ike fluid portion of the nels also have selective properties that allow preferential cytoplasm in which the particles are dispersed is called diffusion of some substances over others. cytosol and contains mainly dissolved proteins, electro- Other integral proteins act as carrier proteins for trans- lytes, and glucose. porting substances that otherwise could not penetrate Dispersed in the cytoplasm are neutral fat globules, the lipid bilayer. Sometimes, these carrier proteins even glycogen granules, ribosomes, secretory vesicles, and five transport substances in the direction opposite to their especially important organelles—the endoplasmic reticu- electrochemical gradients for diffusion, which is called lum, the Golgi apparatus, mitochondria, lysosomes, and active transport. Still others act as enzymes. peroxisomes. Integral membrane proteins can also serve as receptors Endoplasmic Reticulum for water- soluble chemicals, such as peptide hormones, that do not easily penetrate the cell membrane. Interac- Figure 2-2 shows the endoplasmic reticulum, a network tion of cell membrane receptors with specific ligands that of tubular structures called cisternae and flat vesicular bind to the receptor causes conformational changes in structures in the cytoplasm. This organelle helps pro- the receptor protein. This
