Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ligands that of tubular structures called cisternae and flat vesicular bind to the receptor causes conformational changes in structures in the cytoplasm. This organelle helps pro- the receptor protein. This process, in turn, enzymatically cess molecules made by the cell and transports them to activates the intracellular part of the protein or induces their specific destinations inside or outside the cell. The interactions between the receptor and proteins in the tubules and vesicles interconnect. Also, their walls are cytoplasm that act as second messengers, relaying the sig- constructed of lipid bilayer membranes that contain large nal from the extracellular part of the receptor to the inte- amounts of proteins, similar to the cell membrane. The rior of the cell. In this way, integral proteins spanning the total surface area of this structure in some cells—the liver cell membrane provide a means of conveying information cells, for example—can be as much as 30 to 40 times the about the environment to the cell interior. cell membrane area. Peripheral protein molecules are often attached to The detailed structure of a small portion of endoplas- integral proteins. These peripheral proteins function mic reticulum is shown in Figure 2-4. The space inside almost entirely as enzymes or as controllers of transport the tubules and vesicles is filled with endoplasmic matrix, of substances through cell membrane pores. a watery medium that is different from fluid in the cytosol outside the endoplasmic reticulum. Electron micrographs Membrane Carbohydrates—The Cell “Glycocalyx.” show that the space inside the endoplasmic reticulum is Membrane carbohydrates occur almost invariably in com- connected with the space between the two membrane bination with proteins or lipids in the form of glycopro- surfaces of the nuclear membrane. teins or glycolipids. In fact, most of the integral proteins Substances formed in some parts of the cell enter the are glycoproteins, and about one-tenth of the membrane space of the endoplasmic reticulum and are then directed lipid molecules are glycolipids. The glyco- portions of to other parts of the cell. Also, the vast surface area of this 16 Chapter 2 The Cell and Its Functions Ribosome Golgi vesicles Matrix Golgi apparatus ER vesicles Endoplasmic reticulum Rough (granular) endoplasmic reticulum Smooth (agranular) endoplasmic Figure 2-5. A typical Golgi apparatus and its relationship to the reticulum endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the nucleus. Figure 2-4. Structure of the endoplasmic reticulum. vesicles are transported from the endoplasmic reticulum reticulum and the
