Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


apparatus and its relationship to the reticulum endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the nucleus. Figure 2-4. Structure of the endoplasmic reticulum. vesicles are transported from the endoplasmic reticulum reticulum and the multiple enzyme systems attached to to the Golgi apparatus. The transported substances are its membranes provide the mechanisms for a major share then processed in the Golgi apparatus to form lysosomes, of the cell’s metabolic functions. secretory vesicles, and other cytoplasmic components (discussed later in this chapter). Ribosomes and the Rough (Granular) Endoplasmic Lysosomes Reticulum. Attached to the outer surfaces of many parts of the endoplasmic reticulum are large numbers of minute Lysosomes, shown in Figure 2-2, are vesicular organ- granular particles called ribosomes. Where these particles elles that form by breaking off from the Golgi appara- are present, the reticulum is called the rough (granular) tus; they then disperse throughout the cytoplasm. The endoplasmic reticulum. The ribosomes are composed of a lysosomes provide an intracellular digestive system that mixture of RNA and proteins; they function to synthesize allows the cell to digest the following: (1) damaged cellu- new protein molecules in the cell, as discussed later in this lar structures; (2) food particles that have been ingested chapter and in Chapter 3. by the cell; and (3) unwanted matter such as bacteria. Lysosome are different in various cell types but are usu- Smooth (Agranular) Endoplasmic Reticulum. Part of ally 250 to 750 nanometers in diameter. They are sur- the endoplasmic reticulum has no attached ribosomes. rounded by typical lipid bilayer membranes and are filled This part is called the smooth, or agranular, endoplasmic with large numbers of small granules, 5 to 8 nanometers reticulum. The smooth reticulum functions for the syn- in diameter, which are protein aggregates of as many as thesis of lipid substances and for other processes of the 40 different hydrolase (digestive) enzymes. A hydrolytic cells promoted by intrareticular enzymes. enzyme is capable of splitting an organic compound into two or more parts by combining hydrogen from a water Golgi Apparatus molecule with one part of the compound and combin- The Golgi apparatus, shown in Figure 2-5, is closely ing the hydroxyl portion of the water molecule with the related to the endoplasmic reticulum. It has membranes other part of the compound. For example, protein is similar to those of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. hydrolyzed to form amino acids, glycogen is hydrolyzed The Golgi apparatus is
