Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


membranes other part of the compound. For example, protein is similar to those of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. hydrolyzed to form amino acids, glycogen is hydrolyzed The Golgi apparatus is usually composed of four or more to form glucose, and lipids are hydrolyzed to form fatty stacked layers of thin, flat, enclosed vesicles lying near one acids and glycerol. side of the nucleus. This apparatus is prominent in secre- Hydrolytic enzymes are highly concentrated in lyso- tory cells, where it is located on the side of the cell from somes. Ordinarily, the membrane surrounding the lyso- which secretory substances are extruded. some prevents the enclosed hydrolytic enzymes from The Golgi apparatus functions in association with the coming into contact with other substances in the cell and endoplasmic reticulum. As shown in Figure 2-5, small therefore prevents their digestive actions. However, some transport vesicles (also called endoplasmic reticulum conditions of the cell break the membranes of lysosomes, vesicles [ER vesicles]) continually pinch off from the endo- allowing release of the digestive enzymes. These enzymes plasmic reticulum and shortly thereafter fuse with the then split the organic substances with which they come Golgi apparatus. In this way, substances entrapped in ER in contact into small, highly diffusible substances such as 17 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Secretory Outer membrane granules Inner membrane Cristae Matrix Oxidative phosphorylation Outer chamber enzymes Figure 2-6. Secretory granules (secretory vesicles) in acinar cells of the pancreas. Figure 2-7. Structure of a mitochondrion. amino acids and glucose. Some of the specific functions of Mitochondria are present in all areas of each cell’s lysosomes are discussed later in this chapter. cytoplasm, but the total number per cell varies from less than 100 up to several thousand, depending on the energy Peroxisomes requirements of the cell. Cardiac muscle cells (cardiomyo- Peroxisomes are physically similar to lysosomes, but cytes), for example, use large amounts of energy and have they are different in two important ways. First, they are far more mitochondria than fat cells (adipocytes), which believed to be formed by self- replication (or perhaps by are much less active and use less energy. Furthermore, budding off from the smooth endoplasmic reticulum) the mitochondria are concentrated in those portions rather than from the Golgi apparatus. Second, they con- of the cell responsible for the major share of its energy tain oxidases rather than hydrolases.
