Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are concentrated in those portions rather than from the Golgi apparatus. Second, they con- of the cell responsible for the major share of its energy tain oxidases rather than hydrolases. Several of the oxi- metabolism. They are also variable in size and shape. dases are capable of combining oxygen with hydrogen Some mitochondria are only a few hundred nanometers ions derived from different intracellular chemicals to in diameter and are globular in shape, whereas others are form hydrogen peroxide (H O ). Hydrogen peroxide is a elongated and are as large as 1 micrometer in diameter 2 2 highly oxidizing substance and is used in association with and 7 micrometers long. Still others are branching and catalase, another oxidase enzyme present in large quan- filamentous. tities in peroxisomes, to oxidize many substances that The basic structure of the mitochondrion, shown might otherwise be poisonous to the cell. For example, in Figure 2-7, is composed mainly of two lipid bilayer- about half the alcohol that a person drinks is detoxified protein membranes, an outer membrane and an inner into acetaldehyde by the peroxisomes of the liver cells in membrane. Many infoldings of the inner membrane form this manner. A major function of peroxisomes is to catab- shelves or tubules called cristae onto which oxidative olize long- chain fatty acids. enzymes are attached. The cristae provide a large surface area for chemical reactions to occur. In addition, the inner Secretory Vesicles cavity of the mitochondrion is filled with a matrix that One of the important functions of many cells is secretion contains large quantities of dissolved enzymes necessary of special chemical substances. Almost all such secretory for extracting energy from nutrients. These enzymes oper- substances are formed by the endoplasmic reticulum– ate in association with oxidative enzymes on the cristae Golgi apparatus system and are then released from the to cause oxidation of nutrients, thereby forming carbon Golgi apparatus into the cytoplasm in the form of stor- dioxide and water and, at the same time, releasing energy. age vesicles called secretory vesicles or secretory granules. The liberated energy is used to synthesize a high-e nergy Figure 2-6 shows typical secretory vesicles inside pancre- substance called adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is atic acinar cells; these vesicles store protein proenzymes then transported out of the mitochondrion and diffuses (enzymes that are not yet activated). The proenzymes are throughout the cell to release its own
