Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cells; these vesicles store protein proenzymes then transported out of the mitochondrion and diffuses (enzymes that are not yet activated). The proenzymes are throughout the cell to release its own energy wherever it secreted later through the outer cell membrane into the is needed for performing cellular functions. The chemical pancreatic duct and then into the duodenum, where they details of ATP formation by the mitochondrion are pro- become activated and perform digestive functions on the vided in Chapter 68, but some basic functions of ATP in food in the intestinal tract. the cell are introduced later in this chapter. Mitochondria are self- replicative, which means that Mitochondria one mitochondrion can form a second one, a third one, The mitochondria, shown in Figure 2-2 and Figure 2-7, and so on whenever the cell needs increased amounts are called the powerhouses of the cell. Without them, cells of ATP. Indeed, the mitochondria contain DNA similar would be unable to extract enough energy from the nutri- to that found in the cell nucleus. In Chapter 3, we will ents, and essentially all cellular functions would cease. see that DNA is the basic constituent of the nucleus that 18 Chapter 2 The Cell and Its Functions α-Tubulin β-Tubulin monomer monomer Endoplasmic Ribosome Cell membrane Microfilaments reticulum Microtubule (25 nm) Fibrous protein dimer Intermediate filament (8-12 nm) Microtubule Microfilament (7 nm) Two intertwined Mitochondrion F-actin chains G-actin monomer Intermediate filament Figure 2-8. Cell cytoskeleton composed of protein fibers called microfilaments, intermediate filaments, and microtubules. controls replication of the cell. The DNA of the mitochon- All cells have intermediate filaments, although the pro- drion plays a similar role, controlling replication of the tein subunits of these structures vary, depending on the mitochondrion. Cells that are faced with increased energy cell type. Specific intermediate filaments found in various demands—for example, in skeletal muscles subjected to cells include desmin filaments in muscle cells, neurofila- chronic exercise training—may increase the density of ments in neurons, and keratins in epithelial cells. mitochondria to supply the additional energy required. A special type of stiff filament composed of polym- erized tubulin molecules is used in all cells to construct Cell Cytoskeleton—Filament and Tubular strong tubular structures, the microtubules. Figure 2-8 Structures shows typical microtubules of a cell. The cell cytoskeleton is a network of fibrillar proteins Another example of microtubules is the tubular skeletal organized into filaments or tubules. These originate
