Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


shows typical microtubules of a cell. The cell cytoskeleton is a network of fibrillar proteins Another example of microtubules is the tubular skeletal organized into filaments or tubules. These originate as structure in the center of each cilium that radiates upward precursor proteins synthesized by ribosomes in the cyto- from the cell cytoplasm to the tip of the cilium. This struc- plasm. The precursor molecules then polymerize to form ture is discussed later in the chapter (see Figure 2-18). Also, filaments (Figure 2-8). As an example, large numbers of both the centrioles and mitotic spindles of cells undergoing actin microfilaments frequently occur in the outer zone mitosis are composed of stiff microtubules. of the cytoplasm, called the ectoplasm, to form an elas- A major function of microtubules is to act as a cyto- tic support for the cell membrane. Also, in muscle cells, skeleton, providing rigid physical structures for certain actin and myosin filaments are organized into a special parts of cells. The cell cytoskeleton not only determines contractile machine that is the basis for muscle contrac- cell shape but also participates in cell division, allows cells tion, as discussed in Chapter 6. to move, and provides a tracklike system that directs the Intermediate filaments are generally strong ropelike movement of organelles in the cells. Microtubules serve filaments that often work together with microtubules, as the conveyor belts for the intracellular transport of providing strength and support for the fragile tubulin vesicles, granules, and organelles such as mitochondria. structures. They are called intermediate because their Nucleus average diameter is between that of narrower actin micro- filaments and wider myosin filaments found in muscle The nucleus is the control center of the cell and sends cells. Their functions are mainly mechanical, and they are messages to the cell to grow and mature, replicate, or less dynamic than actin microfilaments or microtubules. die. Briefly, the nucleus contains large quantities of DNA, 19 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Pores 15 nm: Small virus Endoplasmic 150 nm: Large virus reticulum Nucleoplasm 350 nm: Rickettsia Nucleolus 1 µm Bacterium Nuclear envelope: outer and inner membranes Cell Chromatin material (DNA) Cytoplasm 5-10 µm+ Figure 2-9. Structure of the nucleus. Figure 2-10. Comparison of sizes of precellular organisms with that of the average cell in the human body. which comprise the genes. The genes determine the char- acteristics of the
