Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Figure 2-10. Comparison of sizes of precellular organisms with that of the average cell in the human body. which comprise the genes. The genes determine the char- acteristics of the cell’s proteins, including the structural RNA and proteins of the types found in ribosomes. The proteins, as well as the intracellular enzymes that control nucleolus enlarges considerably when the cell is actively cytoplasmic and nuclear activities. synthesizing proteins. The genes also control and promote cell reproduction. Formation of the nucleoli (and of the ribosomes in The genes first reproduce to create two identical sets of the cytoplasm outside the nucleus) begins in the nucleus. genes; then the cell splits by a special process called mito- First, specific DNA genes in the chromosomes cause sis to form two daughter cells, each of which receives one RNA to be synthesized. Some of this synthesized RNA is of the two sets of DNA genes. All these activities of the stored in the nucleoli, but most of it is transported out- nucleus are discussed in Chapter 3. ward through the nuclear pores into the cytoplasm. Here Unfortunately, the appearance of the nucleus under the it is used in conjunction with specific proteins to assemble microscope does not provide many clues to the mecha- “mature” ribosomes that play an essential role in forming nisms whereby the nucleus performs its control activities. cytoplasmic proteins, as discussed in Chapter 3. Figure 2-9 shows the light microscopic appearance of the interphase nucleus (during the period between mitoses), COMPARISON OF THE ANIMAL CELL revealing darkly staining chromatin material throughout WITH PRECELLULAR FORMS OF LIFE the nucleoplasm. During mitosis, the chromatin material organizes in the form of highly structured chromosomes, The cell is a complicated organism that required many which can then be easily identified using the light micro- hundreds of millions of years to develop after the earli- scope, as illustrated in Chapter 3. est forms of life, microorganisms that may have been similar to present- day viruses, first appeared on earth. Nuclear Membrane. The nuclear membrane, also called Figure 2-10 shows the relative sizes of the following: (1) the nuclear envelope, is actually two separate bilayer the smallest known virus; (2) a large virus; (3) a Rickett- membranes, one inside the other. The outer membrane sia; (4) a bacterium; and (5) a nucleated cell, This dem- is continuous with the endoplasmic reticulum of the cell onstrates that the
