Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


one inside the other. The outer membrane sia; (4) a bacterium; and (5) a nucleated cell, This dem- is continuous with the endoplasmic reticulum of the cell onstrates that the cell has a diameter about 1000 times cytoplasm, and the space between the two nuclear mem- that of the smallest virus and therefore a volume about 1 branes is also continuous with the space inside the endo- billion times that of the smallest virus. Correspondingly, plasmic reticulum, as shown in Figure 2-9. the functions and anatomical organization of the cell are The nuclear membrane is penetrated by several thou- also far more complex than those of the virus. sand nuclear pores. Large complexes of proteins are The essential life- giving constituent of the small virus is attached at the edges of the pores so that the central area a nucleic acid embedded in a coat of protein. This nucleic of each pore is only about 9 nanometers in diameter. acid is composed of the same basic nucleic acid constit- Even this size is large enough to allow molecules up to a uents (DNA or RNA) found in mammalian cells and is molecular weight of 44,000 to pass through with reason- capable of reproducing itself under appropriate condi- able ease. tions. Thus, the virus propagates its lineage from genera- tion to generation and is therefore a living structure in the Nucleoli and Formation of Ribosomes. The nuclei of same way that cells and humans are living structures. most cells contain one or more highly staining structures As life evolved, other chemicals in addition to nucleic called nucleoli. The nucleolus, unlike most other orga- acid and simple proteins became integral parts of the nelles discussed here, does not have a limiting membrane. organism, and specialized functions began to develop Instead, it is simply an accumulation of large amounts of in different parts of the virus. A membrane formed 20 Chapter 2 The Cell and Its Functions around the virus and, inside the membrane, a fluid matrix Proteins Receptors appeared. Specialized chemicals then developed inside Coated pit Clathrin the fluid to perform special functions; many protein enzymes appeared that were capable of catalyzing chemi- cal reactions, thus determining the organism’s activities. In still later stages of life, particularly in the rickett- sial and bacterial stages, organelles developed inside the A B organism. These represent physical structures of chemi- cal aggregates that perform functions
