Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


later stages of life, particularly in the rickett- sial and bacterial stages, organelles developed inside the A B organism. These represent physical structures of chemi- cal aggregates that perform functions in a more efficient Actin and myosin Dissolving clathrin manner than what can be achieved by dispersed chemi- cals throughout the fluid matrix. Finally, in the nucleated cell, still more complex organ- elles developed, the most important of which is the nucleus. The nucleus distinguishes this type of cell from C D all lower forms of life; it provides a control center for all cellular activities and for reproduction of new cells gen- Figure 2-11. Mechanism of pinocytosis. eration after generation, with each new cell having almost exactly the same structure as its progenitor. Pinocytosis is the only means whereby most large macromolecules, such as most proteins, can enter cells. FUNCTIONAL SYSTEMS OF THE CELL In fact, the rate at which pinocytotic vesicles form is usu- ally enhanced when such macromolecules attach to the In the remainder of this chapter, we discuss some func- cell membrane. tional systems of the cell that make it a living organism. Figure 2-11 demonstrates the successive steps of pinocytosis (A–D), showing three molecules of protein ENDOCYTOSIS—INGESTION BY THE CELL attaching to the membrane. These molecules usually attach to specialized protein receptors on the surface of If a cell is to live and grow and reproduce, it must obtain the membrane that are specific for the type of protein nutrients and other substances from the surrounding flu- that is to be absorbed. The receptors generally are con- ids. Most substances pass through the cell membrane by centrated in small pits on the outer surface of the cell the processes of diffusion and active transport. membrane, called coated pits. On the inside of the cell Diffusion involves simple movement through the mem- membrane beneath these pits is a latticework of fibrillar brane caused by the random motion of the molecules of protein called clathrin, as well as other proteins, perhaps the substance. Substances move through cell membrane including contractile filaments of actin and myosin. Once pores or, in the case of lipid- soluble substances, through the protein molecules have bound with the receptors, the the lipid matrix of the membrane. surface properties of the local membrane change in such Active transport involves actually carrying a substance a way that the entire pit invaginates inward, and fibrillar
