Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


matrix of the membrane. surface properties of the local membrane change in such Active transport involves actually carrying a substance a way that the entire pit invaginates inward, and fibrillar through the membrane by a physical protein structure proteins surrounding the invaginating pit cause its bor- that penetrates all the way through the membrane. These ders to close over the attached proteins, as well as over a active transport mechanisms are so important to cell small amount of extracellular fluid. Immediately thereaf- function that they are presented in detail in Chapter 4. ter, the invaginated portion of the membrane breaks away Large particles enter the cell by a specialized func- from the surface of the cell, forming a pinocytotic vesicle tion of the cell membrane called endocytosis (Video 2- 1). inside the cytoplasm of the cell. The principal forms of endocytosis are pinocytosis and What causes the cell membrane to go through the phagocytosis. Pinocytosis means the ingestion of minute necessary contortions to form pinocytotic vesicles is still particles that form vesicles of extracellular fluid and par- unclear. This process requires energy from within the cell, ticulate constituents inside the cell cytoplasm. Phagocyto- which is supplied by ATP, a high- energy substance dis- sis means the ingestion of large particles, such as bacteria, cussed later in this chapter. This process also requires the whole cells, or portions of degenerating tissue. presence of calcium ions in the extracellular fluid, which probably react with contractile protein filaments beneath Pinocytosis. Pinocytosis occurs continually in the cell the coated pits to provide the force for pinching the vesi- membranes of most cells, but is especially rapid in some cles away from the cell membrane. cells. For example, it occurs so rapidly in macrophages that about 3% of the total macrophage membrane is en- Phagocytosis. Phagocytosis occurs in much the same gulfed in the form of vesicles each minute. Even so, the way as pinocytosis, except that it involves large particles pinocytotic vesicles are so small—usually only 100 to 200 rather than molecules. Only certain cells have the capa- nanometers in diameter—that most of them can be seen bility of phagocytosis—notably, tissue macrophages and only with an electron microscope. some white blood cells. 21 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Lysosomes proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and other substances in the vesicle. The products of digestion are small molecules of substances
