Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Lysosomes proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and other substances in the vesicle. The products of digestion are small molecules of substances such as amino acids, glucose, and phosphates that can diffuse through the membrane of the vesicle into the cytoplasm. What is left of the digestive vesicle, called Pinocytotic or the residual body, represents indigestible substances. In phagocytic most cases, the residual body is finally excreted through vesicle the cell membrane by a process called exocytosis, which is Digestive vesicle essentially the opposite of endocytosis. Thus, the pinocy- totic and phagocytic vesicles containing lysosomes can be called the digestive organs of the cells. Residual body Lysosomes and Regression of Tissues and Autolysis of Damaged Cells. Tissues of the body often regress to Excretion a smaller size. For example, this regression occurs in the uterus after pregnancy, in muscles during long periods of Figure 2-12. Digestion of substances in pinocytotic or phagocytic vesicles by enzymes derived from lysosomes. inactivity, and in mammary glands at the end of lactation. Lysosomes are responsible for much of this regression. Another special role of the lysosomes is the removal Phagocytosis is initiated when a particle such as a bac- of damaged cells or damaged portions of cells from tis- terium, dead cell, or tissue debris binds with receptors sues. Damage to the cell—caused by heat, cold, trauma, on the surface of the phagocyte. In the case of bacteria, chemicals, or any other factor—induces lysosomes to each bacterium is usually already attached to a specific rupture. The released hydrolases immediately begin to antibody; it is the antibody that attaches to the phago- digest the surrounding organic substances. If the damage cyte receptors, dragging the bacterium along with it. This is slight, only a portion of the cell is removed, and the cell intermediation of antibodies is called opsonization, which is then repaired. If the damage is severe, the entire cell is is discussed in Chapters 34 and 35. digested, a process called autolysis. In this way, the cell is Phagocytosis occurs in the following steps: completely removed, and a new cell of the same type is 1. The cell membrane receptors attach to the surface formed, ordinarily by mitotic reproduction of an adjacent ligands of the particle. cell to take the place of the old one. 2. The edges of the membrane around the points of The
