Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


by mitotic reproduction of an adjacent ligands of the particle. cell to take the place of the old one. 2. The edges of the membrane around the points of The lysosomes also contain bactericidal agents that can attachment evaginate outward within a fraction of kill phagocytized bacteria before they cause cellular dam- a second to surround the entire particle; then, pro- age. These agents include the following: (1) lysozyme, which gressively more and more membrane receptors at- dissolves the bacterial cell wall; (2) lysoferrin, which binds tach to the particle ligands. All this occurs suddenly iron and other substances before they can promote bacterial in a zipper- like manner to form a closed phagocytic growth; and (3) acid at a pH of about 5.0, which activates the vesicle. hydrolases and inactivates bacterial metabolic systems. 3. Actin and other contractile fibrils in the cytoplasm surround the phagocytic vesicle and contract Autophagy and Recycling of Cell Organelles. around its outer edge, pushing the vesicle to the in- Lysosomes play a key role in the process of autophagy, terior. which literally means “to eat oneself.” Autophagy is 4. The contractile proteins then pinch the stem of the a housekeeping process whereby obsolete organelles vesicle so completely that the vesicle separates from and large protein aggregates are degraded and re- the cell membrane, leaving the vesicle in the cell in- cycled (Figure 2-13). Worn- out cell organelles are terior in the same way that pinocytotic vesicles are transferred to lysosomes by double- membrane struc- formed. tures called autophagosomes, which are formed in the cytosol. Invagination of the lysosomal membrane and LYSOSOMES DIGEST PINOCYTOTIC AND the formation of vesicles provides another pathway for PHAGOCYTIC FOREIGN SUBSTANCES cytosolic structures to be transported into the lumen INSIDE THE CELL of lysosomes. Once inside the lysosomes, the orga- nelles are digested, and the nutrients are reused by the Almost immediately after a pinocytotic or phagocytic ves- cell. Autophagy contributes to the routine turnover of icle appears inside a cell, one or more lysosomes become cytoplasmic components; it is a key mechanism for attached to the vesicle and empty their acid hydrolases to tissue development, cell survival when nutrients are the inside of the vesicle, as shown in Figure 2-12. Thus, scarce, and maintenance of homeostasis. In liver cells, a digestive vesicle is formed inside the cell cytoplasm in for example, the average mitochondrion normally has which the vesicular
