Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2-12. Thus, scarce, and maintenance of homeostasis. In liver cells, a digestive vesicle is formed inside the cell cytoplasm in for example, the average mitochondrion normally has which the vesicular hydrolases begin hydrolyzing the a life span of only about 10 days before it is destroyed. 22 Chapter 2 The Cell and Its Functions Proteins Synthesis by the Rough Endoplasmic Reticu- lum. The rough endoplasmic reticulum is characterized by large numbers of ribosomes attached to the outer surfaces of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. As discussed in Chapter 3, protein molecules are synthesized within the Isolation membrane structures of the ribosomes. The ribosomes extrude some VESICLE NUCLEATION of the synthesized protein molecules directly into the cy- tosol, but they also extrude many more through the wall of the endoplasmic reticulum to the interior of the endo- plasmic vesicles and tubules into the endoplasmic matrix. Lipid Synthesis by the Smooth Endoplasmic Reticu- lum. The endoplasmic reticulum also synthesizes lipids, AUTOSOME especially phospholipids and cholesterol. These lipids are FORMATION rapidly incorporated into the lipid bilayer of the endoplas- mic reticulum, thus causing the endoplasmic reticulum to Autophagosome grow more extensive. This process occurs mainly in the smooth portion of the endoplasmic reticulum. To keep the endoplasmic reticulum from growing Lysosome beyond the needs of the cell, small vesicles called ER vesicles or transport vesicles continually break away from the smooth reticulum; most of these vesicles then migrate rapidly to the Golgi apparatus. Other Functions of the Endoplasmic Reticulum. Other significant functions of the endoplasmic reticu- DOCKING AND lum, especially the smooth reticulum, include the fol- FUSION WITH Autolysosome LYSOSOME lowing: 1. It provides the enzymes that control glycogen breakdown when glycogen is to be used for energy. Lysosomal 2. It provides a vast number of enzymes that are ca- hydrolase pable of detoxifying substances, such as drugs, that might damage the cell. It achieves detoxification by processes such as coagulation, oxidation, hydroly- sis, and conjugation with glycuronic acid. Golgi Apparatus Functions VESICLE BREAKDOWN AND DEGRADATION Synthetic Functions of the Golgi Apparatus. Although a major function of the Golgi apparatus is to provide ad- Figure 2-13. Schematic diagram of autophagy steps. ditional processing of substances already formed in the SYNTHESIS OF CELLULAR STRUCTURES BY endoplasmic reticulum, it can also synthesize certain ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM AND GOLGI carbohydrates that cannot be formed in the endoplas- APPARATUS mic reticulum. This is especially true for the formation of
