Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


endoplasmic reticulum, it can also synthesize certain ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM AND GOLGI carbohydrates that cannot be formed in the endoplas- APPARATUS mic reticulum. This is especially true for the formation of large saccharide polymers bound with small amounts of Endoplasmic Reticulum Functions protein; important examples include hyaluronic acid and The extensiveness of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi chondroitin sulfate. apparatus in secretory cells has already been emphasized. A few of the many functions of hyaluronic acid and These structures are formed primarily of lipid bilayer chondroitin sulfate in the body are as follows: (1) they membranes, similar to the cell membrane, and their walls are the major components of proteoglycans secreted in are loaded with protein enzymes that catalyze the synthe- mucus and other glandular secretions; (2) they are the sis of many substances required by the cell. major components of the ground substance, or nonfibrous Most synthesis begins in the endoplasmic reticulum. components of the extracellular matrix, outside the cells The products formed there are then passed on to the Golgi in the interstitial spaces, which act as fillers between col- apparatus, where they are further processed before being lagen fibers and cells; (3) they are principal components of released into the cytoplasm. First, however, let us note the the organic matrix in both cartilage and bone; and (4) they specific products that are synthesized in specific portions are important in many cell activities, including migration of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. and proliferation. 23 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Protein Lipid Secretory Types of Vesicles Formed by the Golgi Apparatus— Ribosomes formation formation Lysosomes vesicles Secretory Vesicles and Lysosomes. In a highly secre- tory cell, the vesicles formed by the Golgi apparatus are mainly secretory vesicles containing proteins that are se- creted through the surface of the cell membrane. These secretory vesicles first diffuse to the cell membrane and then fuse with it and empty their substances to the exte- rior by the mechanism called exocytosis. Exocytosis, in most cases, is stimulated by entry of calcium ions into the cell. Calcium ions interact with the vesicular mem- brane and cause its fusion with the cell membrane, fol- lowed by exocytosis—opening of the membrane’s outer surface and extrusion of its contents outside the cell. Some vesicles, however, are destined for intracellular Transport use. Glycosylation vesicles Rough Smooth Golgi Use of Intracellular Vesicles
