Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the membrane’s outer surface and extrusion of its contents outside the cell. Some vesicles, however, are destined for intracellular Transport use. Glycosylation vesicles Rough Smooth Golgi Use of Intracellular Vesicles to Replenish Cellular endoplasmic endoplasmic apparatus Membranes. Some intracellular vesicles formed by the reticulum reticulum Golgi apparatus fuse with the cell membrane or with the Figure 2-14. Formation of proteins, lipids, and cellular vesicles by the membranes of intracellular structures such as the mito- endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. chondria and even the endoplasmic reticulum. This fusion increases the expanse of these membranes and replenish- Processing of Endoplasmic Secretions by the Golgi es the membranes as they are used up. For example, the Apparatus—Formation of Vesicles. Figure 2-14 sum- cell membrane loses much of its substance every time it marizes the major functions of the endoplasmic reticu- forms a phagocytic or pinocytotic vesicle, and the vesicu- lum and Golgi apparatus. As substances are formed in lar membranes of the Golgi apparatus continually replen- the endoplasmic reticulum, especially proteins, they are ish the cell membrane. transported through the tubules toward portions of the In summary, the membranous system of the endo- smooth endoplasmic reticulum that lie nearest to the plasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus are highly Golgi apparatus. At this point, transport vesicles com- metabolic and capable of forming new intracellular posed of small envelopes of smooth endoplasmic retic- structures and secretory substances to be extruded ulum continually break away and diffuse to the deepest from the cell. layer of the Golgi apparatus. Inside these vesicles are synthesized proteins and other products from the endo- THE MITOCHONDRIA EXTRACT ENERGY plasmic reticulum. FROM NUTRIENTS The transport vesicles instantly fuse with the Golgi apparatus and empty their contained substances into The principal substances from which cells extract energy the vesicular spaces of the Golgi apparatus. Here, are foods that react chemically with oxygen—carbo- additional carbohydrate moieties are added to the hydrates, fats, and proteins. In the human body, essen- secretions. Also, an important function of the Golgi tially all carbohydrates are converted into glucose by the apparatus is to compact the endoplasmic reticular digestive tract and liver before they reach the other cells secretions into highly concentrated packets. As the of the body. Similarly, proteins are converted into amino secretions pass toward the outermost layers of the acids, and fats are converted into fatty acids. Figure 2-15 Golgi apparatus, the compaction and processing
