Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Similarly, proteins are converted into amino secretions pass toward the outermost layers of the acids, and fats are converted into fatty acids. Figure 2-15 Golgi apparatus, the compaction and processing pro- shows oxygen and the foodstuffs—glucose, fatty acids, ceed. Finally, both small and large vesicles continually and amino acids—all entering the cell. Inside the cell, break away from the Golgi apparatus, carrying with they react chemically with oxygen under the influence them the compacted secretory substances and diffus- of enzymes that control the reactions and channel the ing throughout the cell. energy released in the proper direction. The details of all The following example provides an idea of the tim- these digestive and metabolic functions are provided in ing of these processes. When a glandular cell is bathed Chapters 63 through 73. in amino acids, newly formed protein molecules can be Briefly, almost all these oxidative reactions occur detected in the granular endoplasmic reticulum within 3 inside the mitochondria, and the energy that is released to 5 minutes. Within 20 minutes, newly formed proteins is used to form the high- energy compound ATP. Then, are already present in the Golgi apparatus and, within 1 ATP, not the original food, is used throughout the cell to to 2 hours, the proteins are secreted from the surface of energize almost all the subsequent intracellular metabolic the cell. reactions. 24 Chapter 2 The Cell and Its Functions the cell’s other functions, such as syntheses of substances 2ADP 2ATP and muscular contraction. To reconstitute the cellular ATP as it is used up, energy Glucose Gl 36 ADP derived from the cellular nutrients causes ADP and phos- Fatty acids FA phoric acid to recombine to form new ATP, and the entire Amino acids AA Pyruvic acid process is repeated over and over. For these reasons, ATP Acetoacetic has been called the energy currency of the cell because it acid can be spent and reformed continually, having a turnover Acetyl-CoA time of only a few minutes. O O O ADP 2 2 2 CO CO CO + H O ATP Chemical Processes in the Formation of ATP—Role 2 2 2 2 of the Mitochondria. On entry into the cells, glucose is converted by enzymes in the cytoplasm into pyruvic acid H O H O 36 ATP (a process called glycolysis). A small amount of ADP is 2 2 changed into ATP by the energy released during
