Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cytoplasm into pyruvic acid H O H O 36 ATP (a process called glycolysis). A small amount of ADP is 2 2 changed into ATP by the energy released during this con- Mitochondrion version, but this amount accounts for less than 5% of the Cell membrane Cytoplasm overall energy metabolism of the cell. About 95% of the cell’s ATP formation occurs in the Figure 2-15. Formation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the cell mitochondria. The pyruvic acid derived from carbo- showing that most of the ATP is formed in the mitochondria. (ADP, hydrates, fatty acids from lipids, and amino acids from Adenosine diphosphate; CoA, coenzyme A.) proteins is eventually converted into the compound acetyl- coenzyme A (CoA) in the matrix of mitochondria. Functional Characteristics of Adenosine This substance, in turn, is further dissolved (for the pur- Triphosphate pose of extracting its energy) by another series of enzymes NH in the mitochondrion matrix, undergoing dissolution in a 2 sequence of chemical reactions called the citric acid cycle, N C or Krebs cycle. These chemical reactions are so important C N HC Adenine that they are explained in detail in Chapter 68. C CH In this citric acid cycle, acetyl- CoA is split into its N N O O O component parts, hydrogen atoms and carbon dioxide. O CH 2 O P O~~P O~~P O– The carbon dioxide diffuses out of the mitochondria and eventually out of the cell; finally, it is excreted from the C H H C O– O– O– body through the lungs. Phosphate H C C H The hydrogen atoms, conversely, are highly reactive; they combine with oxygen that has also diffused into OH OH the mitochondria. This combination releases a tremen- Ribose dous amount of energy, which is used by mitochondria Adenosine triphosphate to convert large amounts of ADP to ATP. The processes of these reactions are complex, requiring the participa- ATP is a nucleotide composed of the following: (1) the tion of many protein enzymes that are integral parts of nitrogenous base adenine; (2) the pentose sugar ribose; mitochondrial membranous shelves that protrude into the and (3) three phosphate radicals. The last two phosphate mitochondrial matrix. The initial event is the removal of radicals are connected with the remainder of the mol- an electron from the hydrogen atom, thus converting it to ecule by high- energy phosphate bonds, which are rep- a hydrogen ion. The terminal
