Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with the remainder of the mol- an electron from the hydrogen atom, thus converting it to ecule by high- energy phosphate bonds, which are rep- a hydrogen ion. The terminal event is the combination of resented in the formula shown by the symbol ∼. Under hydrogen ions with oxygen to form water and the release the physical and chemical conditions of the body, each of of large amounts of energy to globular proteins that pro- these high-e nergy bonds contains about 12,000 calories trude like knobs from the membranes of the mitochon- of energy per mole of ATP, which is many times greater drial shelves; these proteins are called ATP synthetase. than the energy stored in the average chemical bond, thus Finally, the enzyme ATP synthetase uses the energy from giving rise to the term high- energy bond. Furthermore, the the hydrogen ions to convert ADP to ATP. The newly high-e nergy phosphate bond is very labile, so that it can formed ATP is transported out of the mitochondria into be split instantly on demand whenever energy is required all parts of the cell cytoplasm and nucleoplasm, where it to promote other intracellular reactions. energizes multiple cell functions. When ATP releases its energy, a phosphoric acid This overall process for formation of ATP is called the radical is split away, and adenosine diphosphate (ADP) is chemiosmotic mechanism of ATP formation. The chemi- formed. This released energy is used to energize many of cal and physical details of this mechanism are presented 25 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Ribosomes Movement of cell Membrane transport Endoplasmic Endocytosis reticulum Pseudopodium Protein synthesis Na+ Na+ ATP ADP Exocytosis ADP Mitochondrion ATP ATP ADP Surrounding tissue Receptor binding Figure 2-17. Ameboid motion by a cell. ATP ADP simply to synthesize new chemical compounds, especially protein molecules; this is particularly true during the growth phase of cells. Muscle contraction Another use of ATP is to supply energy for special Figure 2-16. Use of adenosine triphosphate (ATP; formed in the mi- cells to perform mechanical work. We discuss in Chap- tochondrion) to provide energy for three major cellular functions— ter 6 that each contraction of a muscle fiber requires the membrane transport, protein synthesis, and muscle contraction. expenditure of large quantities of ATP energy. Other cells (ADP, Adenosine diphosphate.) perform mechanical work in other ways, especially by cili- ary and
