Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


membrane transport, protein synthesis, and muscle contraction. expenditure of large quantities of ATP energy. Other cells (ADP, Adenosine diphosphate.) perform mechanical work in other ways, especially by cili- ary and ameboid motion, described later in this chapter. in Chapter 68, and many of the detailed metabolic func- The source of energy for all these types of mechanical tions of ATP in the body are discussed in Chapters 68 work is ATP. through 72. In summary, ATP is readily available to release its energy rapidly wherever it is needed in the cell. To replace Uses of ATP for Cellular Function. Energy from ATP ATP used by the cell, much slower chemical reactions is used to promote three major categories of cellular break down carbohydrates, fats, and proteins and use the functions: (1) transport of substances through multiple energy derived from these processes to form new ATP. cell membranes; (2) synthesis of chemical compounds More than 95% of this ATP is formed in the mitochon- throughout the cell; and (3) mechanical work. These uses dria, which is why the mitochondria are called the power- of ATP are illustrated by the examples in Figure 2-16: houses of the cell. (1) to supply energy for the transport of sodium through the cell membrane; (2) to promote protein synthesis by LOCOMOTION OF CELLS the ribosomes; and (3) to supply the energy needed dur- ing muscle contraction. The most obvious type of movement in the body is that In addition to the membrane transport of sodium, which occurs in skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle cells, energy from ATP is required for the membrane transport which constitute almost 50% of the entire body mass. The of potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphate, chloride, specialized functions of these cells are discussed in Chapters urate, and hydrogen ions and many other ions, as well 6 through 9. Two other types of movement—ameboid loco- as various organic substances. Membrane transport is motion and ciliary movement—occur in other cells. so important to cell function that some cells—the renal tubular cells, for example—use as much as 80% of the AMEBOID MOVEMENT ATP that they form for this purpose alone. In addition to synthesizing proteins, cells make phos- Ameboid movement is a crawling- like movement of an pholipids, cholesterol, purines, pyrimidines, and many entire cell in relation to its surroundings, such as move- other substances. Synthesis of almost any chemical com- ment of white blood
