Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of an pholipids, cholesterol, purines, pyrimidines, and many entire cell in relation to its surroundings, such as move- other substances. Synthesis of almost any chemical com- ment of white blood cells through tissues. This type of pound requires energy. For example, a single protein mol- movement gets its name from the fact that amebae move ecule might be composed of as many as several thousand in this manner, and amebae have provided an excellent amino acids attached to one another by peptide linkages. tool for studying the phenomenon. The formation of each of these linkages requires energy Typically, ameboid locomotion begins with the protru- derived from the breakdown of four high- energy bonds; sion of a pseudopodium from one end of the cell. The pseu- thus, many thousand ATP molecules must release their dopodium projects away from the cell body and partially energy as each protein molecule is formed. Indeed, some secures itself in a new tissue area; then the remainder of cells use as much as 75% of all the ATP formed in the cell the cell is pulled toward the pseudopodium. Figure 2-17 26 Chapter 2 The Cell and Its Functions demonstrates this process, showing an elongated cell, the Some types of cancer cells, such as sarcomas, which right- hand end of which is a protruding pseudopodium. arise from connective tissue cells, are especially proficient The membrane of this end of the cell is continually mov- at ameboid movement. This partially accounts for their ing forward, and the membrane at the left- hand end of the relatively rapid spreading from one part of the body to cell is continually following along as the cell moves. another, known as metastasis. Mechanism of Ameboid Locomotion. Figure 2-17 Control of Ameboid Locomotion—Chemotaxis. An shows the general principle of ameboid motion. Basical- important initiator of ameboid locomotion is the process ly, this results from the continual formation of new cell called chemotaxis, which results from the appearance of membrane at the leading edge of the pseudopodium and certain chemical substances in the tissues. Any chemi- continual absorption of the membrane in the mid and rear cal substance that causes chemotaxis to occur is called portions of the cell. Two other effects are also essential for a chemotactic substance. Most cells that exhibit ameboid forward movement of the cell. The first is attachment of locomotion move toward the source of a chemotactic the
