Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


also essential for a chemotactic substance. Most cells that exhibit ameboid forward movement of the cell. The first is attachment of locomotion move toward the source of a chemotactic the pseudopodium to surrounding tissues so that it be- substance—that is, from an area of lower concentration comes fixed in its leading position while the remainder toward an area of higher concentration. This is called pos- of the cell body is being pulled forward toward the point itive chemotaxis. Some cells move away from the source, of attachment. This attachment is caused by receptor pro- which is called negative chemotaxis. teins that line the insides of exocytotic vesicles. When the How does chemotaxis control the direction of ame- vesicles become part of the pseudopodial membrane, they boid locomotion? Although the answer is not certain, open so that their insides evert to the outside, and the re- it is known that the side of the cell most exposed to the ceptors now protrude to the outside and attach to ligands chemotactic substance develops membrane changes that in the surrounding tissues. cause pseudopodial protrusion. At the opposite end of the cell, the receptors pull away from their ligands and form new endocytotic vesicles. CILIA AND CILIARY MOVEMENTS Then, inside the cell, these vesicles stream toward the pseudopodial end of the cell, where they are used to form There are two types of cilia, motile and nonmotile, or pri- new membrane for the pseudopodium. mary, cilia. Motile cilia can undergo a whiplike movement The second essential effect for locomotion is to provide on the surfaces of cells. This movement occurs mainly the energy required to pull the cell body in the direction in two places in the human body, on the surfaces of the of the pseudopodium. A moderate to large amount of the respiratory airways and on the inside surfaces of the uter- protein actin is in the cytoplasm of all cells. Much of the ine tubes (fallopian tubes) of the reproductive tract. In the actin is in the form of single molecules that do not provide nasal cavity and lower respiratory airways, the whiplike any motive power; however, these molecules polymerize motion of motile cilia causes a layer of mucus to move at to form a filamentous network, and the network contracts a rate of about 1 cm/min toward the pharynx, in this way when it binds with an actin-b inding protein
