Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


at to form a filamentous network, and the network contracts a rate of about 1 cm/min toward the pharynx, in this way when it binds with an actin-b inding protein such as myosin. continually clearing these passageways of mucus and parti- The entire process is energized by the high-e nergy com- cles that have become trapped in the mucus. In the uterine pound ATP. This is what occurs in the pseudopodium of a tubes, cilia cause slow movement of fluid from the ostium moving cell, where such a network of actin filaments forms of the uterine tube toward the uterus cavity; this movement anew inside the enlarging pseudopodium. Contraction also of fluid transports the ovum from the ovary to the uterus. occurs in the ectoplasm of the cell body, where a preexisting As shown in Figure 2-18, a cilium has the appearance actin network is already present beneath the cell membrane. of a sharp- pointed straight or curved hair that projects 2 to 4 micrometers from the surface of the cell. Often, Types of Cells That Exhibit Ameboid Locomotion. many motile cilia project from a single cell—for example, The most common cells to exhibit ameboid locomotion as many as 200 cilia on the surface of each epithelial cell in the human body are the white blood cells when they inside the respiratory passageways. The cilium is covered move out of the blood into the tissues to form tissue mac- by an outcropping of the cell membrane, and it is sup- rophages. Other types of cells can also move by ameboid ported by 11 microtubules—nine double tubules located locomotion under certain circumstances. For example, around the periphery of the cilium and two single tubules fibroblasts move into a damaged area to help repair the down the center, as demonstrated in the cross section damage, and even the germinal cells of the skin, although shown in Figure 2-18. Each cilium is an outgrowth of ordinarily completely sessile cells, move toward a cut area a structure that lies immediately beneath the cell mem- to repair the opening. Cell locomotion is also especially brane, called the basal body of the cilium. important in the development of the embryo and fetus The flagellum of a sperm is similar to a motile cilium; after fertilization of an ovum. For example, embryonic in fact, it has much the same type of structure and same cells often must
