Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sperm is similar to a motile cilium; after fertilization of an ovum. For example, embryonic in fact, it has much the same type of structure and same cells often must migrate long distances from their sites type of contractile mechanism. The flagellum, however, is of origin to new areas during the development of special much longer and moves in quasisinusoidal waves instead structures. of whiplike movements. 27 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology the cilium can still beat under appropriate conditions. Tip Third, two conditions are necessary for continued beating of the axoneme after removal of the other structures of the cilium: (1) the availability of ATP; and (2) appropriate ionic conditions, especially appropriate concentrations of magnesium and calcium. Fourth, during forward motion of the cilium, the double tubules on the front edge of the Membrane cilium slide outward toward the tip of the cilium, whereas Cross section those on the back edge remain in place. Fifth, multiple protein arms composed of the protein dynein, which has adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) enzymatic activity, Filament project from each double tubule toward an adjacent dou- ble tubule. Given this basic information, it has been determined that the release of energy from ATP in contact with the ATPase dynein arms causes the heads of these arms to Forward stroke “crawl” rapidly along the surface of the adjacent double tubule. If the front tubules crawl outward while the back tubules remain stationary, bending occurs. Basal plate The way in which cilia contraction is controlled is not well understood. The cilia of some genetically abnormal Cell membrane cells do not have the two central single tubules, and these Backward stroke cilia fail to beat. Therefore, it is presumed that some signal, Basal body perhaps an electrochemical signal, is transmitted along these two central tubules to activate the dynein arms. Rootlet Nonmotile Primary Cilia Serve as Cell Sensory “An- tennae.” Primary cilia are nonmotile and generally occur only as a single cilium on each cell. Although the physiological functions of primary cilia are not fully un- Figure 2-18. Structure and function of the cilium. (Modified from derstood, current evidence indicates that they function Satir P: Cilia. Sci Am 204:108, 1961.) as cellular ‘’sensory antennae,” which coordinate cellular signaling pathways involved in chemical and mechani- In the inset of Figure 2-18, movement of the motile cal sensation, signal transduction, and cell growth.
