Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cellular ‘’sensory antennae,” which coordinate cellular signaling pathways involved in chemical and mechani- In the inset of Figure 2-18, movement of the motile cal sensation, signal transduction, and cell growth. In the cilium is shown. The cilium moves forward with a sudden, kidneys, for example, primary cilia are found in most epi- rapid whiplike stroke 10 to 20 times per second, bending thelial cells of the tubules, projecting into the tubule lu- sharply where it projects from the surface of the cell. Then men and acting as a flow sensor. In response to fluid flow it moves backward slowly to its initial position. The rapid, over the tubular epithelial cells, the primary cilia bend and forward- thrusting, whiplike movement pushes the fluid cause flow- induced changes in intracellular calcium sign- lying adjacent to the cell in the direction that the cilium aling. These signals, in turn, initiate multiple effects on moves; the slow dragging movement in the backward the cells. Defects in signaling by primary cilia in renal tu- direction has almost no effect on fluid movement. As a bular epithelial cells are thought to contribute to various result, the fluid is continually propelled in the direction of disorders, including the development of large fluid-fi lled the fast-f orward stroke. Because most motile ciliated cells cysts, a condition called polycystic kidney disease. have large numbers of cilia on their surfaces, and because all the cilia are oriented in the same direction, this is an Bibliography effective means for moving fluids from one part of the surface to another. Alberts B, Johnson A, Lewis J, et al: Molecular Biology of the Cell, 6th ed. New York: Garland Science, 2014. Mechanism of Ciliary Movement. Although not all Brandizzi F, Barlowe C: Organization of the ER-Golgi interface for membrane traffic control. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 14:382, 2013. aspects of ciliary movement are known, we are aware Dikic I, Elazar Z. Mechanism and medical implications of mammalian of the following elements. First, the nine double tubules autophagy. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 19:349, 2018. and two single tubules are all linked to one another by a Eisner V, Picard M, Hajnóczky G. Mitochondrial dynamics in adap- complex of protein cross- linkages; this total complex of tive and maladaptive cellular stress responses. Nat Cell Biol 20:755, 2018. tubules and cross- linkages is called the axoneme. Second, Galluzzi L, Yamazaki T, Kroemer G. Linking cellular
