Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


following: (1) phosphoric acid; (2) a sugar called deoxyri- enzymes, and chemicals are synthesized within the cell. bose; and (3) four nitrogenous bases (two purines, adenine Figure 3-1 shows the general schema of genetic con- and guanine, and two pyrimidines, thymine and cytosine). trol. Each gene, which is composed of deoxyribonucleic The phosphoric acid and deoxyribose form the two heli- acid (DNA), controls the formation of another nucleic cal strands that are the backbone of the DNA molecule, acid, ribonucleic acid (RNA); this RNA then spreads and the nitrogenous bases lie between the two strands throughout the cell to control formation of a specific pro- and connect them, as illustrated in Figure 3-2. tein. The entire process, from transcription of the genetic code in the nucleus to translation of the RNA code and Nucleotides the formation of proteins in the cell cytoplasm, is often The first stage of DNA formation is to combine one mol- referred to as gene expression. ecule of phosphoric acid, one molecule of deoxyribose, and Because the human body has approximately 20,000 one of the four bases to form an acidic nucleotide. Four to 25,000 different genes that code for proteins in each separate nucleotides are thus formed, one for each of the cell, it is possible to form a large number of different cel- four bases: deoxyadenylic, deoxythymidylic, deoxyguanylic, lular proteins. In fact, RNA molecules transcribed from and deoxycytidylic acids. Figure 3-4 shows the chemical the same segment of DNA—the same gene—can be pro- cessed in more than one way by the cell, giving rise to alternate versions of the protein. The total number of Plasma Nuclear different proteins produced by the various cell types in membrane envelope humans is estimated to be at least 100,000. Some of the cellular proteins are structural proteins, Nucleus which, in association with various lipids and carbohy- drates, form structures of the various intracellular organ- DNA Gene (DNA) elles discussed in Chapter 2. However, most of the proteins DNA Transcription transcription are enzymes that catalyze different chemical reactions in the cells. For example, enzymes promote all the oxidative RNA RNA formation reactions that supply energy to the cell, along with synthe- sis of all the cell chemicals, such as lipids, glycogen, and RNA splicing adenosine triphosphate (ATP). mRNA Translation Ribosomes RNA transport CELL NUCLEUS GENES CONTROL PROTEIN SYNTHESIS mRNA Protein formation In the cell nucleus, large numbers of genes
