Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nucleotides that form DNA. respective DNA strands are held together. Note the fol- lowing caveats, however: Nucleotides Are Organized to Form Two 1. Each purine base adenine of one strand always bonds Strands of DNA Loosely Bound to Each with a pyrimidine base thymine of the other strand. Other 2. Each purine base guanine always bonds with a py- Figure 3-2 shows the manner in which multiple nucleo- rimidine base cytosine. tides are bound together to form two strands of DNA. The Thus, in Figure 3-6, the sequence of complementary two strands are, in turn, loosely bonded with each other pairs of bases is CG, CG, GC, TA, CG, TA, GC, AT, and by weak cross- linkages, as illustrated in Figure 3-6 by the AT. Because of the looseness of the hydrogen bonds, the central dashed lines. Note that the backbone of each DNA two strands can pull apart with ease, and they do so many strand is composed of alternating phosphoric acid and times during the course of their function in the cell. deoxyribose molecules. In turn, purine and pyrimidine To put the DNA of Figure 3-6 into its proper physical bases are attached to the sides of the deoxyribose mol- perspective, one could merely pick up the two ends and ecules. Then, by means of loose hydrogen bonds (dashed twist them into a helix. Ten pairs of nucleotides are pres- ent in each full turn of the helix in the DNA molecule. H H N Adenine GENETIC CODE N C C N H C The importance of DNA lies in its ability to control the Phosphate N C N C H formation of proteins in the cell, which it achieves by O H H O means of a genetic code. That is, when the two strands of C H Deoxyribose a DNA molecule are split apart, the purine and pyrimi- H O P O C C C dine bases projecting to the side of each DNA strand are C O H exposed, as shown by the top strand in Figure 3-7. It is H O these projecting bases that form the genetic code. H H The genetic code consists of successive “triplets” of bases—that is, each three successive bases is a code word. Figure 3-4. Deoxyadenylic acid, one of the nucleotides that make up DNA. The successive triplets eventually control the sequence of amino acids in a protein
