Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


molecule of RNA Triphosphate that carries the genetic code from the gene to the RNA molecule P P cytoplasm. The RNA polymerase enzyme moves P P along the DNA strand and builds the RNA mol- ecule. RNA polymerase C C G U C U G A A Figure 3-8. A portion of an RNA molecule showing three RNA codons—CCG, UCU, and GAA—that control attachment P R P R P R P R P R P R P R P R P R of the three amino acids, proline, serine, and glutamic acid, Proline Serine Glutamic acid respectively, to the growing RNA chain. is achieved through the intermediary of another type of triphosphates (shown in Figure 3-7 by the two RNA nucleo- nucleic acid, RNA, the formation of which is controlled tides to the far right during RNA chain formation). These by DNA of the nucleus. Thus, as shown in Figure 3-7, the last two phosphates are combined with the nucleotide by code is transferred to RNA in a process called transcrip- high- energy phosphate bonds derived from ATP in the cell. tion. The RNA, in turn, diffuses from the nucleus through The result of this activation process is that large quan- nuclear pores into the cytoplasmic compartment, where tities of ATP energy are made available to each of the it controls protein synthesis. nucleotides. This energy is used to promote chemical reactions that add each new RNA nucleotide at the end of RNA IS SYNTHESIZED IN THE NUCLEUS the developing RNA chain. FROM A DNA TEMPLATE RNA CHAIN ASSEMBLY FROM ACTIVATED During RNA synthesis, the two strands of DNA separate NUCLEOTIDES USING THE DNA STRAND temporarily; one of these strands is used as a template for AS A TEMPLATE synthesis of an RNA molecule. The code triplets in the DNA result in the formation of complementary code trip- As shown in Figure 3-7, assembly of RNA is accomplished lets (called codons) in the RNA. These codons, in turn, under the influence of an enzyme, RNA polymerase. This will control the sequence of amino acids in a protein to be large protein enzyme has many functional properties nec- synthesized in the cell cytoplasm. essary for formation of RNA, as follows: Building Blocks of RNA. The basic building blocks of 1. In the DNA strand immediately ahead of the gene RNA are almost the same as those of DNA, except for to
