Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Blocks of RNA. The basic building blocks of 1. In the DNA strand immediately ahead of the gene RNA are almost the same as those of DNA, except for to be transcribed is a sequence of nucleotides called two differences. First, the sugar deoxyribose is not used the promoter. The RNA polymerase has an appro- in RNA formation. In its place is another sugar of slightly priate complementary structure that recognizes this different composition, ribose, which contains an extra hy- promoter and becomes attached to it, which is the droxyl ion appended to the ribose ring structure. Second, essential step for initiating the formation of RNA. thymine is replaced by another pyrimidine, uracil. 2. After the RNA polymerase attaches to the promot- er, the polymerase causes unwinding of about two Formation of RNA Nucleotides. The basic building turns of the DNA helix and separation of the un- blocks of RNA form RNA nucleotides, exactly as described wound portions of the two strands. previously for DNA synthesis. Here again, four separate 3. The polymerase then moves along the DNA strand, nucleotides are used to form RNA. These nucleotides temporarily unwinding and separating the two contain the bases adenine, guanine, cytosine, and uracil. DNA strands at each stage of its movement. As it Note that these bases are the same as in DNA, except that moves along, at each stage it adds a new activated uracil in RNA replaces thymine in DNA. RNA nucleotide to the end of the newly forming “Activation” of RNA Nucleotides. The next step in the RNA chain through the following steps: synthesis of RNA is “activation” of RNA nucleotides by an a. First, it causes a hydrogen bond to form between enzyme, RNA polymerase. This activation occurs by add- the end base of the DNA strand and the base of ing two extra phosphate radicals to each nucleotide to form an RNA nucleotide in the nucleoplasm. 34 Chapter 3 Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction b. Then, one at a time, the RNA polymerase breaks structures on which protein molecules are actually two of the three phosphate radicals away from each assembled. of these RNA nucleotides, liberating large amounts 6. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are single- stranded RNA of energy from the broken high-e nergy phosphate molecules of 21 to 23 nucleotides that can regulate bonds. This energy is used to cause covalent linkage gene
