Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


single- stranded RNA of energy from the broken high-e nergy phosphate molecules of 21 to 23 nucleotides that can regulate bonds. This energy is used to cause covalent linkage gene transcription and translation. of the remaining phosphate on the nucleotide with MESSENGER RNA—THE CODONS the ribose on the end of the growing RNA chain. c. When the RNA polymerase reaches the end of Messenger RNA molecules are long single RNA strands the DNA gene, it encounters a new sequence of that are suspended in the cytoplasm. These molecules are DNA nucleotides called the chain- terminating composed of several hundred to several thousand RNA sequence, which causes the polymerase and the nucleotides in unpaired strands, and they contain codons newly formed RNA chain to break away from the that are exactly complementary to the code triplets of the DNA strand. The polymerase then can be used DNA genes. Figure 3-8 shows a small segment of mRNA. again and again to form more new RNA chains. Its codons are CCG, UCU, and GAA, which are the d. As the new RNA strand is formed, its weak hy- codons for the amino acids proline, serine, and glutamic drogen bonds with the DNA template break acid. The transcription of these codons from the DNA away because the DNA has a high affinity for molecule to the RNA molecule is shown in Figure 3-7. rebonding with its own complementary DNA strand. Thus, the RNA chain is forced away from RNA Codons for the Different Amino Acids. Table 3-1 the DNA and is released into the nucleoplasm. lists the RNA codons for the 20 common amino acids Therefore, the code that is present in the DNA strand found in protein molecules. Note that most of the amino is eventually transmitted in complementary form to the acids are represented by more than one codon; also, one RNA chain. The ribose nucleotide bases always combine codon represents the signal “start manufacturing the pro- with the deoxyribose bases in the following combinations: tein molecule,” and three codons represent “stop manu- facturing the protein molecule.” In Table 3-1, these two DNA Base RNA Base guanine Cytosine cytosine Guanine Table 3-1 RNA Codons for Amino Acids and for Start and Stop adenine Uracil thymine adenine Amino Acid RNA Codons Alanine GCU GCC GCA GCG There Are Several Different Types of RNA. As research Arginine CGU CGC CGA CGG AGA AGG on
