Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ribosomal RNA, Another type of RNA that is essential for protein synthesis which constitutes about 60% of the ribosome. The remain- is called transfer RNA (tRNA) because it transfers amino der of the ribosome is protein, including about 75 types acids to protein molecules as the protein is being syn- of proteins that are both structural proteins and enzymes thesized. Each type of tRNA combines specifically with needed to manufacture proteins. 1 of the 20 amino acids that are to be incorporated into The ribosome is the physical structure in the cytoplasm proteins. The tRNA then acts as a carrier to transport its on which proteins are actually synthesized. However, it specific type of amino acid to the ribosomes, where pro- always functions in association with the other two types tein molecules are forming. In the ribosomes, each spe- of RNA; tRNA transports amino acids to the ribosome cific type of tRNA recognizes a particular codon on the for incorporation into the developing protein, whereas mRNA (described later) and thereby delivers the appro- mRNA provides the information necessary for sequenc- priate amino acid to the appropriate place in the chain of ing the amino acids in proper order for each specific type the newly forming protein molecule. of protein to be manufactured. Thus, the ribosome acts Transfer RNA, which contains only about 80 nucleo- as a manufacturing plant in which the protein molecules tides, is a relatively small molecule in comparison with are formed. mRNA. It is a folded chain of nucleotides with a cloverleaf appearance similar to that shown in Figure 3-9. At one Formation of Ribosomes in the Nucleolus. The DNA end of the molecule there is always an adenylic acid to genes for the formation of ribosomal RNA are located in which the transported amino acid attaches at a hydroxyl five pairs of chromosomes in the nucleus. Each of these group of the ribose in the adenylic acid. chromosomes contains many duplicates of these particu- Because the function of tRNA is to cause attachment lar genes because of the large amounts of ribosomal RNA of a specific amino acid to a forming protein chain, it is required for cellular function. essential that each type of tRNA also have specificity for As the ribosomal RNA forms, it collects in the nucleo- a particular codon in the mRNA. The specific code in the lus, a specialized structure lying adjacent
