Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


have specificity for As the ribosomal RNA forms, it collects in the nucleo- a particular codon in the mRNA. The specific code in the lus, a specialized structure lying adjacent to the chromo- tRNA that allows it to recognize a specific codon is again somes. When large amounts of ribosomal RNA are being a triplet of nucleotide bases and is called an anticodon. synthesized, as occurs in cells that manufacture large This anticodon is located approximately in the middle of amounts of protein, the nucleolus is a large structure, the tRNA molecule (at the bottom of the cloverleaf con- whereas in cells that synthesize little protein, the nucle- figuration shown in Figure 3-9). During formation of the olus may not even be seen. Ribosomal RNA is specially protein molecule, the anticodon bases combine loosely by processed in the nucleolus, where it binds with ribosomal hydrogen bonding with the codon bases of the mRNA. In proteins to form granular condensation products that this way, the respective amino acids are lined up one after are primordial subunits of ribosomes. These subunits are another along the mRNA chain, thus establishing the then released from the nucleolus and transported through the large pores of the nuclear envelope to almost all parts Alanine of the cytoplasm. After the subunits enter the cytoplasm, Cysteine they are assembled to form mature functional ribosomes. Forming protein Histidine Therefore, proteins are formed in the cytoplasm of the Alanine cell, but not in the cell nucleus, because the nucleus does Phenylalanine not contain mature ribosomes. Serine Proline Transfer RNA miRNA AND SMALL INTERFERING RNA Start codon Anticodon A fourth type of RNA in the cell is microRNA (miRNA); Codon miRNA are short (21 to 23 nucleotides) single- stranded GGG RNA fragments that regulate gene expression (Figure AUG GCC UGU CAU GCC UUU UCC CCC AAA CAG GAC UAU 3-10). The miRNAs are encoded from the transcribed Ribosome Ribosome DNA of genes, but they are not translated into pro- Messenger teins and are therefore often called noncoding RNA. The RNA movement miRNAs are processed by the cell into molecules that Figure 3-9. A messenger RNA strand is moving through two ribo- are complementary to mRNA and act to decrease gene somes. As each codon passes through, an amino acid is added to the expression. The generation of miRNAs involves special growing protein chain, which is shown in the right- hand ribosome.
