Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


As each codon passes through, an amino acid is added to the expression. The generation of miRNAs involves special growing protein chain, which is shown in the right- hand ribosome. The transfer RNA molecule transports each specific amino acid to the processing of longer primary precursor RNAs called pri- newly forming protein. miRNAs, which are the primary transcripts of the gene. 36 Chapter 3 Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction Another type of miRNA is small interfering RNA Protein-coding gene miRNA (siRNA), also called silencing RNA or short interfering RNA. The siRNAs are short, double- stranded RNA mol- ecules, comprised of 20 to 25 nucleotides, that interfere with expression of specific genes. siRNAs generally refer Transcription Transcription of mRNA of pri-miRNA to synthetic miRNAs and can be administered to silence pri-miRNA expression of specific genes. They are designed to avoid nuclear processing by the microprocessor complex and, Microprocessor after the siRNA enters the cytoplasm, it activates the RISC complex silencing complex, blocking the translation of mRNA. Because siRNAs can be tailored for any specific sequence Nucleus in the gene, they can be used to block translation of any pre-miRNA mRNA and therefore expression by any gene for which the nucleotide sequence is known. Researchers have pro- Cytoplasm posed that siRNAs may become useful therapeutic tools Transport of pre-miRNA into cytoplasm to silence genes that contribute to the pathophysiology of diseases. Dicer TRANSLATION—FORMATION OF PROTEINS ON THE RIBOSOMES Processing of pre-miRNA into small When a molecule of mRNA comes in contact with a RNA duplexes ribosome, it travels through the ribosome, beginning at a predetermined end of the RNA molecule specified by an appropriate sequence of RNA bases called the chain- RISC initiating codon. Then, as shown in Figure 3-9, while the mRNA travels through the ribosome, a protein molecule is formed, a process called translation. Thus, the ribo- some reads the codons of the mRNA in much the same mRNA way that a tape is read as it passes through the playback RISC-miRNA head of a tape recorder. Then, when a “stop” (or “chain- complex terminating”) codon slips past the ribosome, the end of a protein molecule is signaled, and the protein molecule is freed into the cytoplasm. mRNA degradation Translational repression Polyribosomes. A single mRNA molecule can form Figure 3-10. Regulation of gene expression by microRNA (miRNA). protein molecules in several ribosomes at the same
