Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the cytoplasm. mRNA degradation Translational repression Polyribosomes. A single mRNA molecule can form Figure 3-10. Regulation of gene expression by microRNA (miRNA). protein molecules in several ribosomes at the same time Primary miRNA (pri- miRNA), the primary transcripts of a gene pro- because the initial end of the RNA strand can pass to a cessed in the cell nucleus by the microprocessor complex, are con- verted to pre- miRNAs. These pre- miRNAs are then further processed successive ribosome as it leaves the first, as shown at the in the cytoplasm by dicer, an enzyme that helps assemble an RNA- bottom left in Figure 3-9 and Figure 3-11. The protein induced silencing complex (RISC) and generates miRNAs. The miRNAs molecules are in different stages of development in each regulate gene expression by binding to the complementary region of ribosome. As a result, clusters of ribosomes frequently the RNA and repressing translation or promoting degradation of the occur, with 3 to 10 ribosomes being attached to a single messenger RNA (mRNA) before it can be translated by the ribosome. mRNA at the same time. These clusters are called polyri- bosomes. The pri-m iRNAs are then processed in the cell nucleus An mRNA can cause formation of a protein molecule by the microprocessor complex to pre- miRNAs, which are in any ribosome; there is no specificity of ribosomes for 70- nucleotide, stem loop structures. These pre-m iRNAs given types of protein. The ribosome is simply the physi- are then further processed in the cytoplasm by a specific cal manufacturing plant in which the chemical reactions dicer enzyme that helps assemble an RNA- induced silenc- take place. ing complex (RISC) and generates miRNAs. The miRNAs regulate gene expression by binding to the Many Ribosomes Attach to the Endoplasmic complementary region of the RNA and promoting repres- Reticulum. In Chapter 2, we noted that many ribosomes sion of translation or degradation of the mRNA before it become attached to the endoplasmic reticulum. This at- can be translated by the ribosome. miRNAs are believed to tachment occurs because the initial ends of many forming play an important role in normal regulation of cell function, protein molecules have amino acid sequences that imme- and alterations in miRNA function have been associated diately attach to specific receptor sites on the endoplas- with diseases such as cancer and heart disease. mic reticulum, causing these molecules to penetrate the 37
