Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


function have been associated diately attach to specific receptor sites on the endoplas- with diseases such as cancer and heart disease. mic reticulum, causing these molecules to penetrate the 37 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Messenger Ribosome RNA Small Transfer RNA subunit Figure 3-11. The physical structure of the ribosomes, as well as their functional relationship to messenger Large RNA, transfer RNA, and the endo- subunit Amino acid Endoplasmic Polypeptide plasmic reticulum during the forma- reticulum chain tion of protein molecules. reticulum wall and enter the endoplasmic reticulum ma- chemical events require energy from two additional trix. This process gives a granular appearance to the por- high- energy phosphate bonds, making a total of four tions of the reticulum where proteins are being formed high- energy bonds used for each amino acid added to the and are entering the matrix of the reticulum. protein chain. Thus, the synthesis of proteins is one of the Figure 3-11 shows the functional relationship of most energy- consuming processes of the cell. mRNA to the ribosomes and the manner in which the Peptide Linkage—Combination of Amino Acids. The ribosomes attach to the membrane of the endoplasmic successive amino acids in the protein chain combine reticulum. Note the process of translation occurring in with one another according to the typical reaction. several ribosomes at the same time in response to the same strand of mRNA. Note also the newly forming poly- NH 2 O H R peptide (protein) chains passing through the endoplasmic R C C OH+H N C COOH reticulum membrane into the endoplasmic matrix. It should be noted that except in glandular cells, in NH 2 O H R which large amounts of protein- containing secretory ves- R C C N CCOOH H+ O 2 icles are formed, most proteins synthesized by the ribo- somes are released directly into the cytosol instead of into In this chemical reaction, a hydroxyl radical (OH−) is the endoplasmic reticulum. These proteins are enzymes removed from the COOH portion of the first amino acid, and internal structural proteins of the cell. and a hydrogen (H+) of the NH 2 portion of the other amino acid is removed. These combine to form water, and the Chemical Steps in Protein Synthesis. Some of the two reactive sites left on the two successive amino acids chemical events that occur in the synthesis of
