Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


form water, and the Chemical Steps in Protein Synthesis. Some of the two reactive sites left on the two successive amino acids chemical events that occur in the synthesis of a protein bond with each other, resulting in a single molecule. This molecule are shown in Figure 3-12. This Fig. shows rep- process is called peptide linkage. As each additional amino resentative reactions for three separate amino acids, AA 1, acid is added, an additional peptide linkage is formed. AA , and AA . The stages of the reactions are as follows: 2 20 1. Each amino acid is activated by a chemical pro- SYNTHESIS OF OTHER SUBSTANCES IN cess in which ATP combines with the amino acid THE CELL to form an adenosine monophosphate complex with the amino acid, giving up two high- energy phos- Many thousand protein enzymes formed in the manner phate bonds in the process. just described control essentially all the other chemical 2. The activated amino acid, having an excess of ener- reactions that take place in cells. These enzymes promote gy, then combines with its specific tRNA to form an synthesis of lipids, glycogen, purines, pyrimidines, and amino acid–tRNA complex and, at the same time, hundreds of other substances. We discuss many of these releases the adenosine monophosphate. synthetic processes in relation to carbohydrate, lipid, and 3. The tRNA carrying the amino acid complex then protein metabolism in Chapters 68 through 70. These sub- comes in contact with the mRNA molecule in the stances each contribute to the various functions of the cells. ribosome, where the anticodon of the tRNA attach- es temporarily to its specific codon of the mRNA, CONTROL OF GENE FUNCTION AND thus lining up the amino acid in the appropriate se- BIOCHEMICAL ACTIVITY IN CELLS quence to form a protein molecule. Then, under the influence of the enzyme peptidyl From our discussion thus far, it is clear that the genes control transferase (one of the proteins in the ribosome), peptide both the physical and chemical functions of the cells. How- bonds are formed between the successive amino acids, ever, the degree of activation of respective genes must also be thus adding progressively to the protein chain. These 38 Chapter 3 Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction Amino acid AA AA AA +1 +2 +20 ATP ATP ATP Activated amino acid AMP AA AMP AA AMP AA
