Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction Amino acid AA AA AA +1 +2 +20 ATP ATP ATP Activated amino acid AMP AA AMP AA AMP AA 1 2 20 + + + tRNA tRNA tRNA 1 2 20 RNA–amino acyl complex tRNA AA tRNA AA tRNA AA 1 1 2 2 20 20 + + + Messenger RNA GCC UGU AAU CAU CGU AUG GUU GCC UGU AAU CAU CGU AUG GUU Complex between tRNA, messenger RNA, and amino acid Figure 3-12. Chemical events in the formation of a pro- GTP GTP GTP GTP GTP GTP GTP tein molecule. AMP, Adenosine monophosphate; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; GTP, guanosine triphosphate; Protein chain AA AA AA AA AA AA AA 1 5 3 9 2 13 20 tRNA, transfer RNA. controlled; otherwise, some parts of the cell might overgrow Condensed Upstream chromatin or some chemical reactions might overact until they kill the Insulator cell. Each cell has powerful internal feedback control mecha- Enhancer nisms that keep the various functional operations of the cell Transcription in step with one another. For each gene (≈20,000–25,000 inhibitors genes in all), at least one such feedback mechanism exists. Transcription RNA polymerase 2 There are basically two methods whereby the biochem- factors ical activities in the cell are controlled: (1) genetic regula- tion, in which the degree of activation of the genes and RE RE TATA INR the formation of gene products are themselves controlled, and (2) enzyme regulation, in which the activity levels of Proximal promoter already formed enzymes in the cell are controlled. elements Basal promoter Figure 3-13. Gene transcription in eukaryotic cells. A complex ar- GENETIC REGULATION rangement of multiple clustered enhancer modules is interspersed with insulator elements, which can be located upstream or downstream of a basal promoter containing TATA box (TATA), proximal promoter ele- Genetic regulation, or regulation of gene expression, covers ments (response elements, RE), and initiator sequences (INR). the entire process from transcription of the genetic code in the nucleus to the formation of proteins in the cytoplasm. controlled by regulatory elements found in the promoter Regulation of gene expression provides all living organisms of a gene (Figure 3-13). In eukaryotes, which includes all with the ability to respond to changes in their environment. mammals, the basal promoter consists of a sequence of In animals that have many different types of cells, tissues, bases (TATAAA) called the
