Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to respond to changes in their environment. mammals, the basal promoter consists of a sequence of In animals that have many different types of cells, tissues, bases (TATAAA) called the TATA box, the binding site and organs, differential regulation of gene expression also for the TATA- binding protein and several other impor- permits the different cell types in the body to each perform tant transcription factors that are collectively referred to their specialized functions. Although a cardiac myocyte as the transcription factor IID complex. In addition to the contains the same genetic code as a renal tubular epithelial transcription factor IID complex, this region is where cell, many genes are expressed in cardiac cells that are not transcription factor IIB binds to both the DNA and RNA expressed in renal tubular cells. The ultimate measure of polymerase 2 to facilitate transcription of the DNA into gene “expression” is whether (and how much) of the gene RNA. This basal promoter is found in all protein- coding products (proteins) are produced because proteins carry genes, and the polymerase must bind with this basal out cell functions specified by the genes. Regulation of gene promoter before it can begin traveling along the DNA expression can occur at any point in the pathways of tran- strand to synthesize RNA. The upstream promoter is lo- scription, RNA processing, and translation. cated farther upstream from the transcription start site and contains several binding sites for positive or negative The Promoter Controls Gene Expression. Synthesis transcription factors that can affect transcription through of cellular proteins is a complex process that starts with interactions with proteins bound to the basal promoter. transcription of DNA into RNA. Transcription of DNA is The structure and transcription factor binding sites in the 39 tRNA1 AA1 tRNA5 AA5 tRNA3 AA3 tRNA9 AA9 tRNA2 AA2 tRNA13 AA13 tRNA20 AA20 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology upstream promoter vary from gene to gene to give rise each chromosome, the DNA is wound around small to the different expression patterns of genes in different proteins called histones, which in turn are held tissues. tightly together in a compacted state by still other Transcription of genes in eukaryotes is also influenced proteins. As long as the DNA is in this compacted by enhancers, which are regions of DNA that can bind state, it cannot function to form RNA. However, transcription
