Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


influenced proteins. As long as the DNA is in this compacted by enhancers, which are regions of DNA that can bind state, it cannot function to form RNA. However, transcription factors. Enhancers can be located a great multiple control mechanisms are being discovered distance from the gene they act on or even on a differ- that can cause selected areas of chromosomes to ent chromosome. They can also be located upstream or become decompacted one part at a time, so that downstream of the gene that they regulate. Although partial RNA transcription can occur. Even then, enhancers may be located far from their target gene, they specific transcriptor factors control the actual rate may be relatively close when DNA is coiled in the nucleus. of transcription by the promoter in the chromo- It is estimated that there are more than 100,000 gene some. Thus, still higher orders of control are used enhancer sequences in the human genome. to establish proper cell function. In addition, signals In the organization of the chromosome, it is important from outside the cell, such as some of the body’s to separate active genes that are being transcribed from hormones, can activate specific chromosomal areas genes that are repressed. This separation can be challeng- and specific transcription factors, therefore control- ing because multiple genes may be located close together ling the chemical machinery for function of the cell. on the chromosome. The separation is achieved by chro- Because there are many thousands of different genes mosomal insulators. These insulators are gene sequences in each human cell, the large number of ways in which that provide a barrier so that a specific gene is isolated genetic activity can be controlled is not surprising. The against transcriptional influences from surrounding genes. gene control systems are especially important for control- Insulators can vary greatly in their DNA sequence and the ling intracellular concentrations of amino acids, amino proteins that bind to them. One way an insulator activity acid derivatives, and intermediate substrates and prod- can be modulated is by DNA methylation, which is the ucts of carbohydrate, lipid, and protein metabolism. case for the mammalian insulin-l ike growth factor 2 (IGF- 2) gene. The mother’s allele has an insulator between the CONTROL OF INTRACELLULAR FUNCTION enhancer and promoter of the gene that allows for the BY ENZYME REGULATION binding of a transcriptional repressor. However, the pater- nal DNA sequence
