Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


between the CONTROL OF INTRACELLULAR FUNCTION enhancer and promoter of the gene that allows for the BY ENZYME REGULATION binding of a transcriptional repressor. However, the pater- nal DNA sequence is methylated such that the transcrip- In addition to control of cell function by genetic regula- tional repressor cannot bind to the insulator, and the IGF- 2 tion, cell activities are also controlled by intracellular gene is expressed from the paternal copy of the gene. inhibitors or activators that act directly on specific intra- cellular enzymes. Thus, enzyme regulation represents Other Mechanisms for Control of Transcription by the a second category of mechanisms whereby cellular bio- Promoter. Variations in the basic mechanism for control chemical functions can be controlled. of the promoter have been discovered in the past three Enzyme Inhibition. Some chemical substances formed decades. Without giving details, let us list some of them: in the cell have direct feedback effects to inhibit the spe- 1. A promoter is frequently controlled by transcrip- cific enzyme systems that synthesize them. Almost al- tion factors located elsewhere in the genome. That ways, the synthesized product acts on the first enzyme is, the regulatory gene causes the formation of a in a sequence, rather than on the subsequent enzymes, regulatory protein that in turn acts as an activator usually binding directly with the enzyme and causing an or repressor of transcription. allosteric conformational change that inactivates it. One 2. Occasionally, many different promoters are con- can readily recognize the importance of inactivating the trolled at the same time by the same regulatory first enzyme because this prevents buildup of intermedi- protein. In some cases, the same regulatory protein ary products that are not used. functions as an activator for one promoter and as a Enzyme inhibition is another example of negative feed- repressor for another promoter. back control. It is responsible for controlling intracellular 3. Some proteins are controlled not at the starting concentrations of multiple amino acids, purines, pyrimi- point of transcription on the DNA strand but far- dines, vitamins, and other substances. ther along the strand. Sometimes, the control is not even at the DNA strand itself but occurs during the Enzyme Activation. Enzymes that are normally inac- processing of the RNA molecules in the nucleus be- tive often can be activated when needed. An example of fore they are released into the cytoplasm. Control this phenomenon occurs when most
