Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the RNA molecules in the nucleus be- tive often can be activated when needed. An example of fore they are released into the cytoplasm. Control this phenomenon occurs when most of the ATP has been may also occur at the level of protein formation in depleted in a cell. In this case, a considerable amount of the cytoplasm during RNA translation by the ribo- cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) begins to be somes. formed as a breakdown product of ATP. The presence of 4. In nucleated cells, the nuclear DNA is packaged in this cAMP, in turn, immediately activates the glycogen- specific structural units, the chromosomes. Within splitting enzyme phosphorylase, liberating glucose mole- 40 Chapter 3 Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction cules that are rapidly metabolized, with their energy used Centromere Chromosome for replenishment of the ATP stores. Thus, cAMP acts as Nuclear an enzyme activator for the enzyme phosphorylase and membrane thereby helps control intracellular ATP concentration. Another interesting example of both enzyme inhibi- Nucleolus tion and enzyme activation occurs in the formation of the Centriole purines and pyrimidines. These substances are needed by Aster the cell in approximately equal quantities for the formation A B of DNA and RNA. When purines are formed, they inhibit the enzymes that are required for formation of additional purines. However, they activate the enzymes for formation of pyrimidines. Conversely, the pyrimidines inhibit their own enzymes but activate the purine enzymes. In this way, there is continual cross- talk between the synthesizing sys- tems for these two substances, resulting in almost exactly C D equal amounts of the two substances in the cells at all times. Summary. There are two principal mechanisms whereby cells control proper proportions and quantities of different cellular constituents: (1) genetic regulation; and (2) enzyme regulation. The genes can be activated or inhibited, and likewise, the enzyme systems can be activated or inhibited. These regulatory mechanisms usually function as feedback E F control systems that continually monitor the cell’s biochem- ical composition and make corrections as needed. However, on occasion, substances from outside the cell (especially some of the hormones discussed in this text) also control the intracellular biochemical reactions by activating or in- hibiting one or more of the intracellular control systems. G H Figure 3-14. Stages of cell reproduction. A, B, C, Prophase. D, Pro- THE DNA–GENETIC SYSTEM CONTROLS metaphase. E, Metaphase. F,
