Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


one or more of the intracellular control systems. G H Figure 3-14. Stages of cell reproduction. A, B, C, Prophase. D, Pro- THE DNA–GENETIC SYSTEM CONTROLS metaphase. E, Metaphase. F, Anaphase. G, H, Telophase. CELL REPRODUCTION Cell reproduction is another example of the ubiquitous uninhibited life cycle of the cell. Therefore, different cells of role that the DNA–genetic system plays in all life pro- the body actually have life cycle periods that vary from as cesses. The genes and their regulatory mechanisms deter- little as 10 hours for highly stimulated bone marrow cells to mine cell growth characteristics and when or whether an entire lifetime of the human body for many nerve cells. cells will divide to form new cells. In this way, the all- Cell Reproduction Begins with Replication important genetic system controls each stage in the devel- of DNA opment of the human, from the single-c ell fertilized ovum to the whole functioning body. Thus, if there is any central The first step of cell reproduction is replication (duplica- theme to life, it is the DNA–genetic system. tion) of all DNA in the chromosomes. It is only after this replication has occurred that mitosis can take place. Life Cycle of the Cell The DNA begins to be duplicated 5 to 10 hours before The life cycle of a cell is the period from cell reproduction mitosis, and the duplication is completed in 4 to 8 hours. to the next cell reproduction. When mammalian cells are The net result is two exact replicas of all DNA. These rep- not inhibited and are reproducing as rapidly as they can, licas become the DNA in the two new daughter cells that this life cycle may be as little as 10 to 30 hours. It is termi- will be formed at mitosis. After replication of the DNA, nated by a series of distinct physical events called mito- there is another period of 1 to 2 hours before mitosis begins sis that cause division of the cell into two new daughter abruptly. Even during this period, preliminary changes that cells. The events of mitosis are shown in Figure 3-14 and will lead to the mitotic process are beginning to take place. described later. The actual stage of mitosis, however, lasts for only about 30 minutes, and thus more than 95% of the DNA Replication. DNA is replicated in much the same life cycle
