Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The actual stage of mitosis, however, lasts for only about 30 minutes, and thus more than 95% of the DNA Replication. DNA is replicated in much the same life cycle of even rapidly reproducing cells is represented way that RNA is transcribed from DNA, except for a few by the interval between mitosis, called interphase. important differences: Except in special conditions of rapid cellular repro- 1. Both strands of the DNA in each chromosome are duction, inhibitory factors almost always slow or stop the replicated, not just one of them. 41 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology DNA Replication fork polymerase Leading strand Parent Topoisomerase DNA 5’ strands 5’ 3’ Primase RNA Okazaki DNA ligase primer fragment 3’ 5’ Helicase Parent DNA strands 3’ Newly synthesized strands DNA polymerase Lagging strand Figure 3-15. DNA replication, showing the replication fork and leading and lagging strands of DNA. 2. Both entire strands of the DNA helix are replicated Primers always bind as the starting point for DNA from end to end, rather than small portions of them, replication. as occurs in the transcription of RNA. 6. Elongation. DNA polymerases are responsible for 3. Multiple enzymes called DNA polymerase, which creating the new strand by a process called elon- is comparable to RNA polymerase, are essential for gation. Because replication proceeds in the 5′ to 3′ replicating DNA. DNA polymerase attaches to and direction on the leading strand, the newly formed moves along the DNA template strand, adding nu- strand is continuous. The lagging strand begins cleotides in the 5′ to 3′ direction. Another enzyme, replication by binding with multiple primers that DNA ligase, causes bonding of successive DNA nu- are only several bases apart. DNA polymerase then cleotides to one another, using high-e nergy phos- adds pieces of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, to phate bonds to energize these attachments. the strand between primers. This process of repli- 4. Replication fork formation. Before DNA can be cation is discontinuous because the newly created replicated, the double- stranded molecule must be Okazaki fragments are not yet connected. An en- “unzipped” into two single strands (Figure 3-15). zyme, DNA ligase, joins the Okazaki fragments to Because the DNA helixes in each chromosome are form a single unified strand. approximately 6 centimeters in length and have mil- 7. Termination. After the continuous and discontinu- lions of helical turns, it would
