Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in each chromosome are form a single unified strand. approximately 6 centimeters in length and have mil- 7. Termination. After the continuous and discontinu- lions of helical turns, it would be impossible for the ous strands are both formed, the enzyme exonu- two newly formed DNA helixes to uncoil from each clease removes the RNA primers from the original other were it not for some special mechanism. This strands, and the primers are replaced with appro- uncoiling is achieved by DNA helicase enzymes that priate bases. Another exonuclease “proofreads” the break the hydrogen bonding between the base pairs newly formed DNA, checking and clipping off any of the DNA, permitting the two strands to separate mismatched or unpaired residues. into a Y shape known as the replication fork, the Another enzyme, topoisomerase, can transiently break area that will be the template for replication to be- the phosphodiester bond in the backbone of the DNA gin. strand to prevent the DNA in front of the replication fork DNA is directional in both strands, signified by a 5′ from being overwound. This reaction is reversible, and the and 3′ end (see Figure 3-15). Replication progresses phosphodiester bond reforms as the topoisomerase leaves. only in the 5′ to 3′ direction. At the replication fork Once completed, the parent strand and its comple- one strand, the leading strand, is oriented in the 3′ mentary DNA strand coils into the double helix shape. to 5′ direction, toward the replication fork, while the The process of replication therefore produces two DNA lagging strand is oriented 5′ to 3′, away from the rep- molecules, each with one strand from the parent DNA lication fork. Because of their different orientations, and one new strand. For this reason, DNA replication is the two strands are replicated differently. often described as semiconservative; half of the chain is 5. Primer binding. Once the DNA strands have been part of the original DNA molecule and half is brand new. separated, a short piece of RNA called an RNA primer binds to the 3′ end of the leading strand. DNA Repair, DNA “Proofreading,” and “Mutation.” Primers are generated by the enzyme DNA primase. During the hour or so between DNA replication and 42 Chapter 3 Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction the beginning of mitosis, there is a period of active re- for mitosis) at a point called the
