Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Chapter 3 Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction the beginning of mitosis, there is a period of active re- for mitosis) at a point called the centromere located near pair and “proofreading” of the DNA strands. Wherever their center. These duplicated but still attached chromo- inappropriate DNA nucleotides have been matched up somes are called chromatids. with the nucleotides of the original template strand, spe- cial enzymes cut out the defective areas and replace them CELL MITOSIS with appropriate complementary nucleotides. This repair process, which is achieved by the same DNA polymerases The actual process whereby the cell splits into two new and DNA ligases that are used in replication, is referred to cells is called mitosis. Once each chromosome has been as DNA proofreading. replicated to form the two chromatids, mitosis follows Because of repair and proofreading, mistakes are automatically within 1 or 2 hours in many cells. rarely made in the DNA replication process. When a mis- take is made, it is called a mutation. The mutation may Mitotic Apparatus: Function of the Centrioles. One of cause formation of some abnormal protein in the cell the first events of mitosis takes place in the cytoplasm in rather than a needed protein, which may lead to abnor- or around the small structures called centrioles during the mal cellular function and sometimes even cell death. latter part of interphase. As shown in Figure 3-14, two Given that many thousands of genes exist in the human pairs of centrioles lie close to each other near one pole genome, and that the period from one human generation of the nucleus. These centrioles, like the DNA and chro- to another is about 30 years, one would expect as many as mosomes, are also replicated during interphase, usually 10 or many more mutations in the passage of the genome shortly before replication of the DNA. Each centriole is from parent to offspring. As a further protection, how- a small cylindrical body about 0.4 micrometer long and ever, each human genome is represented by two separate about 0.15 micrometer in diameter, consisting mainly of sets of chromosomes, one derived from each parent, with nine parallel tubular structures arranged in the form of a almost identical genes. Therefore, one functional gene of cylinder. The two centrioles of each pair lie at right angles each pair is almost always available to the child,
