Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of a almost identical genes. Therefore, one functional gene of cylinder. The two centrioles of each pair lie at right angles each pair is almost always available to the child, despite to each other. Each pair of centrioles, along with attached mutations. pericentriolar material, is called a centrosome. Shortly before mitosis takes place, the two pairs of cen- CHROMOSOMES AND THEIR REPLICATION trioles begin to move apart from each other. This move- ment is caused by polymerization of protein microtubules The DNA helixes of the nucleus are packaged in chro- growing between the respective centriole pairs and actu- mosomes. The human cell contains 46 chromosomes ally pushing them apart. At the same time, other microtu- arranged in 23 pairs. Most of the genes in the two chro- bules grow radially away from each of the centriole pairs, mosomes of each pair are identical or almost identical to forming a spiny star called the aster, in each end of the each other, so it is usually stated that the different genes cell. Some of the spines of the aster penetrate the nuclear also exist in pairs, although occasionally this is not the membrane and help separate the two sets of chromatids case. during mitosis. The complex of microtubules extending In addition to DNA, there is a large amount of pro- between the two new centriole pairs is called the spindle, tein in the chromosome, composed mainly of many small and the entire set of microtubules plus the two pairs of molecules of electropositively charged histones. The his- centrioles is called the mitotic apparatus. tones are organized into vast numbers of small, bobbin- Prophase. The first stage of mitosis, called prophase, is like cores. Small segments of each DNA helix are coiled shown in Figure 3-14 A, B, and C. While the spindle is sequentially around one core after another. forming, the chromosomes of the nucleus (which in in- The histone cores play an important role in regulation terphase consist of loosely coiled strands) become con- of DNA activity because as long as the DNA is packaged densed into well- defined chromosomes. tightly, it cannot function as a template for formation of RNA or replication of new DNA. Furthermore, some of Prometaphase. During the prometaphase stage (see Fig- the regulatory proteins decondense the histone packaging ure 3-14D), the growing microtubular spines of the aster of the DNA and allow small segments at
