Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


During the prometaphase stage (see Fig- the regulatory proteins decondense the histone packaging ure 3-14D), the growing microtubular spines of the aster of the DNA and allow small segments at a time to form fragment the nuclear envelope. At the same time, multi- RNA. ple microtubules from the aster attach to the chromatids Several nonhistone proteins are also major components at the centromeres, where the paired chromatids are still of chromosomes, functioning as chromosomal structural bound to each other. The tubules then pull one chromatid proteins and, in connection with the genetic regulatory of each pair toward one cellular pole and its partner to- machinery, as activators, inhibitors, and enzymes. ward the opposite pole. Replication of the chromosomes in their entirety occurs Metaphase. During the metaphase stage (see Figure during the next few minutes after replication of the DNA 3-14E), the two asters of the mitotic apparatus are pushed helixes has been completed; the new DNA helixes collect farther apart. This pushing is believed to occur because new protein molecules as needed. The two newly formed the microtubular spines from the two asters, where they chromosomes remain attached to each other (until time interdigitate with each other to form the mitotic spindle, 43 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology push each other away. Minute contractile protein mol- parts of the body. Some of these growth factors circulate ecules called “molecular motors,” which may be composed in the blood, but others originate in adjacent tissues. For of the muscle protein actin, extend between the respective example, the epithelial cells of some glands, such as the spines and, using a stepping action as in muscle, actively pancreas, fail to grow without a growth factor from the slide the spines in a reverse direction along each other. underlying connective tissue of the gland. Second, most Simultaneously, the chromatids are pulled tightly by their normal cells stop growing when they have run out of attached microtubules to the very center of the cell, lining space for growth. This phenomenon occurs when cells are up to form the equatorial plate of the mitotic spindle. grown in tissue culture; the cells grow until they contact a solid object, and then growth stops. Third, cells grown in Anaphase. During the anaphase stage (see Figure tissue culture often stop growing when minute amounts 3-14 F), the two chromatids of each chromosome are
