Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


growth stops. Third, cells grown in Anaphase. During the anaphase stage (see Figure tissue culture often stop growing when minute amounts 3-14 F), the two chromatids of each chromosome are of their own secretions are allowed to collect in the culture pulled apart at the centromere. All 46 pairs of chromatids medium. This mechanism, too, could provide a means for are separated, forming two separate sets of 46 daughter negative feedback control of growth. chromosomes. One of these sets is pulled toward one mi- totic aster, and the other is pulled toward the other aster, Telomeres Prevent the Degradation of Chromo- as the two respective poles of the dividing cell are pushed somes. A telomere is a region of repetitive nucleotide se- still farther apart. quences located at each end of a chromatid (Figure 3-16). Telomeres serve as protective caps that prevent the chro- Telophase. In the telophase stage (see Figure 3-14G and mosome from deterioration during cell division. During H), the two sets of daughter chromosomes are pushed cell division, a short piece of “primer” RNA attaches to the completely apart. Then, the mitotic apparatus dissipates, DNA strand to start the replication. However, because the and a new nuclear membrane develops around each set of primer does not attach at the very end of the DNA strand, chromosomes. This membrane is formed from portions the copy is missing a small section of the DNA. With each of the endoplasmic reticulum that are already present in cell division, the copied DNA loses additional nucleotides the cytoplasm. Shortly thereafter, the cell pinches in two, from the telomere region. The nucleotide sequences pro- midway between the two nuclei. This pinching is caused vided by the telomeres therefore prevent the degradation by the formation of a contractile ring of microfilaments of genes near the ends of chromosomes. Without telom- composed of actin and probably myosin (the two contrac- eres, the genomes would progressively lose information tile proteins of muscle) at the juncture of the newly devel- and be truncated after each cell division. Thus, the tel- oping cells that pinches them off from each other. omeres can be considered to be disposable chromosomal buffers that help maintain stability of the genes but are CONTROL OF CELL GROWTH AND CELL gradually consumed during repeated cell divisions. REPRODUCTION Some cells grow and reproduce all the time, such as the blood- forming cells of the bone
