Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


CONTROL OF CELL GROWTH AND CELL gradually consumed during repeated cell divisions. REPRODUCTION Some cells grow and reproduce all the time, such as the blood- forming cells of the bone marrow, the germinal Telomere layers of the skin, and the epithelium of the gut. Many Nonreplicating Normal DNA other cells, however, such as smooth muscle cells, may cell not reproduce for many years. A few cells, such as the neurons and most striated muscle cells, do not reproduce during the entire life of a person, except during the origi- nal period of fetal life. In certain tissues, an insufficiency of some types of cells causes them to grow and reproduce rapidly until appropriate numbers of these cells are again available. For example, in some young animals, seven-eighths of Cancerous cells the liver can be removed surgically, and the cells of the remaining one-eighth will grow and divide until the liver mass returns to almost normal. The same phenomenon Cancerous DNA occurs for many glandular cells and most cells of the bone marrow, subcutaneous tissue, intestinal epithelium, and almost any other tissue except highly differentiated cells Telomerase enzyme such as nerve and muscle cells. Figure 3-16. Control of cell replication by telomeres and telomerase. The mechanisms that maintain proper numbers of the The cells’ chromosomes are capped by telomeres, which, in the ab- sence of telomerase activity, shorten with each cell division until the different types of cells in the body are still poorly under- cell stops replicating. Therefore, most cells of the body cannot repli- stood. However, experiments have shown at least three cate indefinitely. In cancer cells, telomerase is activated, and telomere ways in which growth can be controlled. First, growth length is maintained so that the cells continue to replicate themselves often is controlled by growth factors that come from other uncontrollably. 44 Chapter 3 Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction Each time a cell divides, an average person loses 30 Therefore, it has become clear that differentiation to 200 base pairs from the ends of that cell’s telomeres. results not from loss of genes but from selective repres- In human blood cells, the length of telomeres ranges sion of different gene promoters. In fact, electron micro- from 8000 base pairs at birth to as low as 1500 in older graphs suggest that some segments of DNA helixes that people. Eventually, when the telomeres
