Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fact, electron micro- from 8000 base pairs at birth to as low as 1500 in older graphs suggest that some segments of DNA helixes that people. Eventually, when the telomeres shorten to a criti- are wound around histone cores become so condensed cal length, the chromosomes become unstable, and the that they no longer uncoil to form RNA molecules. One cells die. This process of telomere shortening is believed explanation for this is as follows. It has been supposed that to be an important reason for some of the physiological the cellular genome begins at a certain stage of cell differ- changes associated with aging. Telomere erosion can also entiation to produce a regulatory protein that forever after occur as a result of diseases, especially those associated represses a select group of genes. Therefore, the repressed with oxidative stress and inflammation. genes never function again. Regardless of the mechanism, In some cells, such as stem cells of the bone marrow mature human cells each produce a maximum of about or skin that must be replenished throughout life, or germ 8000 to 10,000 proteins rather than the potential 20,000 to cells in the ovaries and testes, the enzyme telomerase adds 25,000 or more that would be produced if all genes were bases to the ends of the telomeres so that many more gen- active. erations of cells can be produced. However, telomerase Embryological experiments have shown that certain activity is usually low in most cells of the body, and after cells in an embryo control differentiation of adjacent cells. many generations the descendent cells will inherit defec- For example, the primordial chordamesoderm is called tive chromosomes, become senescent, and cease dividing. the primary organizer of the embryo because it forms a This process of telomere shortening is important in regu- focus around which the remainder of the embryo devel- lating cell proliferation and maintaining gene stability. In ops. It differentiates into a mesodermal axis that contains cancer cells, telomerase activity is abnormally activated segmentally arranged somites and, as a result of induc- so that telomere length is maintained, making it possible tions in the surrounding tissues, causes the formation of for the cells to replicate over and over again uncontrolla- essentially all the organs of the body. bly (see Figure 3-16). Some scientists have therefore pro- Another instance of induction occurs when the devel- posed that telomere shortening protects us from
