Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


all the organs of the body. bly (see Figure 3-16). Some scientists have therefore pro- Another instance of induction occurs when the devel- posed that telomere shortening protects us from cancer oping eye vesicles come into contact with the ectoderm and other proliferative diseases. of the head and cause the ectoderm to thicken into a lens plate that folds inward to form the lens of the eye. Regulation of Cell Size. Cell size is determined almost Therefore, a large share of the embryo develops as a result entirely by the amount of functioning DNA in the nu- of such inductions, with one part of the body affecting cleus. If replication of the DNA does not occur, the cell another part, and this part affecting still other parts. grows to a certain size and thereafter remains at that size. Thus, although our understanding of cell differentia- Conversely, use of the chemical colchicine makes it possi- tion is still hazy, we are aware of many control mecha- ble to prevent formation of the mitotic spindle and there- nisms whereby differentiation could occur. fore prevent mitosis, even though replication of the DNA continues. In this event, the nucleus contains far greater APOPTOSIS—PROGRAMMED CELL quantities of DNA than it normally does, and the cell DEATH grows proportionately larger. It is assumed that this cell growth results from increased production of RNA and The many trillions of the body’s cells are members of a cell proteins, which, in turn, cause the cell to grow larger. highly organized community in which the total number of cells is regulated not only by controlling the rate of CELL DIFFERENTIATION cell division, but also by controlling the rate of cell death. When cells are no longer needed or become a threat to the A special characteristic of cell growth and cell division is organism, they undergo a suicidal programmed cell death, cell differentiation, which refers to changes in the physi- or apoptosis. This process involves a specific proteolytic cal and functional properties of cells as they proliferate cascade that causes the cell to shrink and condense, disas- in the embryo to form the different body structures and semble its cytoskeleton, and alter its cell surface so that a organs. The following description of an especially inter- neighboring phagocytic cell, such as a macrophage, can esting experiment helps explain these processes. attach to the cell membrane and digest the cell.
