Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The following description of an especially inter- neighboring phagocytic cell, such as a macrophage, can esting experiment helps explain these processes. attach to the cell membrane and digest the cell. When the nucleus from an intestinal mucosal cell of a In contrast to programmed death, cells that die as a frog is surgically implanted into a frog ovum from which result of an acute injury usually swell and burst due to loss the original ovum nucleus was removed, the result is often of cell membrane integrity, a process called cell necrosis. the formation of a normal frog. This experiment demon- Necrotic cells may spill their contents, causing inflamma- strates that even the intestinal mucosal cell, which is a tion and injury to neighboring cells. Apoptosis, however, well- differentiated cell, carries all the necessary genetic is an orderly cell death that results in disassembly and information for development of all structures required in phagocytosis of the cell before any leakage of its contents the frog’s body. occurs, and neighboring cells usually remain healthy. 45 UNIT I UNIT I Introduction to Physiology: The Cell and General Physiology Apoptosis is initiated by activation of a family of pro- • Fourth, the simultaneous presence of several dif- teases called caspases, which are enzymes that are syn- ferent activated oncogenes is usually required to thesized and stored in the cell as inactive procaspases. cause a cancer. For example, one such gene might The mechanisms of activation of caspases are complex promote rapid reproduction of a cell line, but no but, once activated, the enzymes cleave and activate other cancer occurs because another mutant gene is not procaspases, triggering a cascade that rapidly breaks present simultaneously to form the needed blood down proteins within the cell. The cell thus dismantles vessels. itself, and its remains are rapidly digested by neighboring What is it that causes the altered genes? Considering phagocytic cells. that many trillions of new cells are formed each year in A tremendous amount of apoptosis occurs in tissues humans, a better question might be to ask why all of us that are being remodeled during development. Even in do not develop millions or billions of mutant cancerous adult humans, billions of cells die each hour in tissues cells. The answer is the incredible precision with which such as the intestine and bone marrow and are replaced DNA chromosomal strands are replicated in each cell
