Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hour in tissues cells. The answer is the incredible precision with which such as the intestine and bone marrow and are replaced DNA chromosomal strands are replicated in each cell by new cells. Programmed cell death, however, is normally before mitosis can take place, along with the proofreading balanced by formation of new cells in healthy adults. Oth- process that cuts and repairs any abnormal DNA strand erwise, the body’s tissues would shrink or grow exces- before the mitotic process is allowed to proceed. Yet, sively. Abnormalities of apoptosis may play a key role in despite these inherited cellular precautions, probably one neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease, as newly formed cell in every few million still has significant well as in cancer and autoimmune disorders. Some drugs mutant characteristics. that have been used successfully for chemotherapy appear Thus, chance alone is all that is required for muta- to induce apoptosis in cancer cells. tions to take place, so we can suppose that a large number of cancers are merely the result of an unlucky CANCER occurrence. However, the probability of mutations can be greatly increased when a person is exposed to cer- Cancer may be caused by mutation or by some other tain chemical, physical, or biological factors, including abnormal activation of cellular genes that control cell the following: growth and cell mitosis. Proto- oncogenes are normal genes 1. Ionizing radiation, such as x-r ays, gamma rays, that code for various proteins that control cell adhesion, particle radiation from radioactive substances, growth and division. If mutated or excessively activated, and even ultraviolet light, can predispose individ- proto- oncogenes can become abnormally functioning uals to cancer. Ions formed in tissue cells under oncogenes capable of causing cancer. As many as 100 dif- the influence of such radiation are highly reactive ferent oncogenes have been discovered in human cancers. and can rupture DNA strands, causing many mu- Also present in all cells are antioncogenes, also called tations. tumor suppressor genes, which suppress the activation 2. Chemical substances of certain types may also of specific oncogenes. Therefore, loss or inactivation of cause mutations. It was discovered long ago that antioncogenes can allow activation of oncogenes that lead various aniline dye derivatives are likely to cause to cancer. cancer, and thus workers in chemical plants pro- For several reasons, only a minute fraction of the cells ducing such substances, if unprotected, have a
