Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


likely to cause to cancer. cancer, and thus workers in chemical plants pro- For several reasons, only a minute fraction of the cells ducing such substances, if unprotected, have a that mutate in the body ever lead to cancer: special predisposition to cancer. Chemical sub- • First, most mutated cells have less survival capabil- stances that can cause mutation are called car- ity than normal cells, and they simply die. cinogens. The carcinogens that currently cause • Second, only a few of the mutated cells that survive the greatest number of deaths are those in ciga- become cancerous because most mutated cells still rette smoke. These carcinogens cause over 30% of have normal feedback controls that prevent exces- all cancer deaths and at least 85% of lung cancer sive growth. deaths. • Third, cells that are potentially cancerous are of- 3. Physical irritants can also lead to cancer, such as ten destroyed by the body’s immune system before continued abrasion of the linings of the intestinal they grow into a cancer. tract by some types of food. The damage to the tis- Most mutated cells form abnormal proteins within sues leads to rapid mitotic replacement of the cells; their cell bodies because of their altered genes, and these the more rapid the mitosis, the greater the chance proteins activate the body’s immune system, causing it for mutation. to form antibodies or sensitized lymphocytes that react 4. Hereditary tendency to cancer occurs in some fami- against the cancerous cells, destroying them. In people lies. This hereditary tendency results from the fact whose immune systems have been suppressed, such as that most cancers require not one mutation but two in persons taking immunosuppressant drugs after kidney or more mutations before cancer occurs. In families or heart transplantation, the probability that a cancer will that are particularly predisposed to cancer, it is pre- develop is multiplied as much as fivefold. sumed that one or more cancerous genes are already 46 Chapter 3 Genetic Control of Protein Synthesis, Cell Function, and Cell Reproduction mutated in the inherited genome. Therefore, far Bibliography fewer additional mutations must take place in such Alberts B, Johnson A, Lewis J, et al: Molecular Biology of the Cell, family members before a cancer begins to grow. 6th ed. New York: Garland Science 2014. 5. Certain types of oncoviruses can cause various types Armanios M: Telomeres and age-related disease: how telomere
