Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tissues gradually sustain and its crosstalk with other cellular pathways. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol nutritive death. 20:5-20, 2019. Some cancers cause disruption of vital organ func- tions. For example, a lung cancer might replace healthy tissue to the extent that the lungs cannot absorb enough oxygen to maintain tissues in the rest of the body. 47 UNIT I CHAPTER 4 Transport of Substances Through Cell Membranes Figure 4-1 lists the approximate concentrations of impor- THE CELL MEMBRANE IS A LIPID tant electrolytes and other substances in the extracellular BILAYER WITH CELL MEMBRANE fluid and intracellular fluid. Note that the extracellular TRANSPORT PROTEINS fluid contains a large amount of sodium but only a small amount of potassium. The opposite is true of the intra- The structure of the membrane covering the outside of cellular fluid. Also, the extracellular fluid contains a large every cell of the body is discussed in Chapter 2 and illus- amount of chloride ions, whereas the intracellular fluid trated in Figure 2-3 and Figure 4-2. This membrane con- contains very little of these ions. However, the concentra- sists almost entirely of a lipid bilayer with large numbers tions of phosphates and proteins in the intracellular fluid of protein molecules in the lipid, many of which penetrate are considerably greater than those in the extracellular all the way through the membrane. fluid. These differences are extremely important to the life The lipid bilayer is not miscible with the extracellular of the cell. The purpose of this chapter is to explain how fluid or the intracellular fluid. Therefore, it constitutes a the differences are brought about by the cell membrane barrier against movement of water molecules and water- transport mechanisms. soluble substances between the extracellular and intracel- lular fluid compartments. However, as shown in Figure 4-2 by the leftmost arrow, lipid- soluble substances can diffuse directly through the lipid substance. EXTRACELLULAR INTRACELLULAR The membrane protein molecules interrupt the con- FLUID FLUID tinuity of the lipid bilayer, constituting an alternative Na+ ---------------142 mEq/L ---------10 mEq/L pathway through the cell membrane. Many of these pen- K+ -----------------4 mEq/L ------------140 mEq/L etrating proteins can function as transport proteins. Some Ca2+ --------------2.4 mEq/L ----------0.0001 mEq/L Mg2+ --------------1.2 mEq/L ----------58 mEq/L proteins have watery spaces all the way through the mole- Cl– ----------------103 mEq/L ---------4 mEq/L cule and allow free movement of water, as well as selected HCO– ------------24 mEq/L -----------10 mEq/L 3
