Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Transport Facilitated diffusion requires interaction of a carrier through the cell membrane, either directly through the li- protein. The carrier protein aids passage of molecules or pid bilayer or through the proteins, occurs via one of two ions through the membrane by binding chemically with basic processes, diffusion or active transport. them and shuttling them through the membrane in this Although many variations of these basic mechanisms form. exist, diffusion means random molecular movement of Simple diffusion can occur through the cell membrane substances molecule by molecule, either through inter- by two pathways: (1) through the interstices of the lipid molecular spaces in the membrane or in combination bilayer if the diffusing substance is lipid- soluble; and with a carrier protein. The energy that causes diffusion is (2) through watery channels that penetrate all the way the energy of the normal kinetic motion of matter. through some of the large transport proteins, as shown to In contrast, active transport means movement of ions the left in Figure 4-2. or other substances across the membrane in combina- tion with a carrier protein in such a way that the carrier Diffusion of Lipid- Soluble Substances Through the protein causes the substance to move against an energy Lipid Bilayer. The lipid solubility of a substance is an gradient, such as from a low-c oncentration state to a high- important factor for determining how rapidly it diffuses concentration state. This movement requires an additional through the lipid bilayer. For example, the lipid solubili- source of energy besides kinetic energy. A more detailed ties of oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and alcohols are explanation of the basic physics and physical chemistry of high, and all these substances can dissolve directly in the these two processes is provided later in this chapter. lipid bilayer and diffuse through the cell membrane in the same manner that diffusion of water solutes occurs in a DIFFUSION watery solution. The rate of diffusion of each of these sub- stances through the membrane is directly proportional to All molecules and ions in the body fluids, including water its lipid solubility. Especially large amounts of oxygen can molecules and dissolved substances, are in constant be transported in this way; therefore, oxygen can be de- motion, with each particle moving in its separate way. The livered to the interior of the cell almost as though the cell motion of these particles is what physicists
