Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


de- motion, with each particle moving in its separate way. The livered to the interior of the cell almost as though the cell motion of these particles is what physicists call “heat”— membrane did not exist. the greater the motion, the higher the temperature—and the motion never ceases, except at absolute zero tem- Diffusion of Water and Other Lipid- Insoluble Mole- perature. When a moving molecule, A, approaches a sta- cules Through Protein Channels. Even though water is tionary molecule, B, the electrostatic and other nuclear highly insoluble in the membrane lipids, it readily passes forces of molecule A repel molecule B, transferring some through channels in protein molecules that penetrate all of the energy of motion of molecule A to molecule B. the way through the membrane. Many of the body’s cell Consequently, molecule B gains kinetic energy of motion, membranes contain protein “pores” called aquaporins whereas molecule A slows down, losing some of its that selectively permit rapid passage of water through kinetic energy. As shown in Figure 4-3, a single molecule the membrane. The aquaporins are highly specialized, in a solution bounces among the other molecules—first in and there are at least 13 different types in various cells of one direction, then another, then another, and so forth— mammals. randomly bouncing thousands of times each second. This The rapidity with which water molecules can diffuse continual movement of molecules among one another in through most cell membranes is astounding. For example, liquids or gases is called diffusion. the total amount of water that diffuses in each direction 52 Chapter 4 Transport of Substances Through Cell Membranes through the red blood cell membrane during each second is about 100 times as great as the volume of the red blood Pore loop cell. Outside Selectivity Other lipid- insoluble molecules can pass through the filter protein pore channels in the same way as water molecules if they are water- soluble and small enough. However, as they become larger, their penetration falls off rapidly. For example, the diameter of the urea molecule is only 20% greater than that of water, yet its penetration through the cell membrane pores is about 1000 times less than that of water. Even so, given the astonishing rate of water pen- etration, this amount of urea penetration still allows rapid Potassium transport of urea through the membrane within minutes. ion DIFFUSION THROUGH PROTEIN PORES AND CHANNELS—SELECTIVE
