Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


astonishing rate of water pen- etration, this amount of urea penetration still allows rapid Potassium transport of urea through the membrane within minutes. ion DIFFUSION THROUGH PROTEIN PORES AND CHANNELS—SELECTIVE PERMEABILITY AND “GATING” OF CHANNELS Inside Computerized three- dimensional reconstructions of pro- Pore helix tein pores and channels have demonstrated tubular path- ways all the way from the extracellular to the intracellular fluid. Therefore, substances can move by simple diffusion directly along these pores and channels from one side of the membrane to the other. Figure 4-4. The structure of a potassium channel. The channel is com- posed of four subunits (only two of which are shown), each with two Pores are composed of integral cell membrane proteins transmembrane helices. A narrow selectivity filter is formed from the that form open tubes through the membrane and are always pore loops, and carbonyl oxygens line the walls of the selectivity filter, open. However, the diameter of a pore and its electrical forming sites for transiently binding dehydrated potassium ions. The in- charges provide selectivity that permits only certain mole- teraction of the potassium ions with carbonyl oxygens causes the potas- cules to pass through. For example, aquaporins permit rapid sium ions to shed their bound water molecules, permitting the dehy- drated potassium ions to pass through the pore. passage of water through cell membranes but exclude other molecules. Aquaporins have a narrow pore that permits water molecules to diffuse through the membrane in single molecular diameters of the ions because potassium ions file. The pore is too narrow to permit passage of any hydrated are slightly larger than sodium ions. Using x-r ay crys- ions. As discussed in Chapters 28 and 76, the density of some tallography, potassium channels were found to have a aquaporins (e.g., aquaporin- 2) in cell membranes is not static tetrameric structure consisting of four identical protein but is altered in different physiological conditions. subunits surrounding a central pore (Figure 4-4). At the The protein channels are distinguished by two impor- top of the channel pore are pore loops that form a narrow tant characteristics: (1) they are often selectively perme- selectivity filter. Lining the selectivity filter are carbonyl able to certain substances; and (2) many of the channels oxygens. When hydrated potassium ions enter the selec- can be opened or closed by gates that are regulated by tivity filter, they interact with the carbonyl oxygens and
