Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the channels oxygens. When hydrated potassium ions enter the selec- can be opened or closed by gates that are regulated by tivity filter, they interact with the carbonyl oxygens and electrical signals (voltage- gated channels) or chemicals shed most of their bound water molecules, permitting the that bind to the channel proteins (ligand- gated channels). dehydrated potassium ions to pass through the channel. Thus, ion channels are flexible dynamic structures, and The carbonyl oxygens are too far apart, however, to enable subtle conformational changes influence gating and ion them to interact closely with the smaller sodium ions, selectivity. which are therefore effectively excluded by the selectivity filter from passing through the pore. Selective Permeability of Protein Channels. Many protein Different selectivity filters for the various ion channels channels are highly selective for transport of one or more are believed to determine, in large part, the specificity of specific ions or molecules. This selectivity results from various channels for cations or anions or for particular specific characteristics of the channel, such as its diam- ions, such as sodium (Na+), potassium (K+), and calcium eter, shape, and the nature of the electrical charges and (Ca2+), that gain access to the channels. chemical bonds along its inside surfaces. One of the most important of the protein channels, Potassium channels permit passage of potassium ions the sodium channel, is only 0.3 to 0.5 nanometer in across the cell membrane about 1000 times more read- diameter, but the ability of sodium channels to discrimi- ily than they permit passage of sodium ions. This high nate sodium ions among other competing ions in the degree of selectivity cannot be explained entirely by the surrounding fluids is crucial for proper cellular function. 53 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Outside Gate Na+ Na+ the bottom panel of Figure 4-5, the potassium gates closed are on the intracellular ends of the potassium chan- Gate open – – nels, and they open when the inside of the cell mem- – – –– –– ––– – –– –– ––– – b thr ea sn ee gb ae tec so m is e ps a rp to lys i rt eiv se pl oy nc sh iba lr eg e fod r. tTh ere m o inp ae tn inin gg t ho ef – – – – action potential, a process discussed in Chapter 5. – –
