Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


eg e fod r. tTh ere m o inp ae tn inin gg t ho ef – – – – action potential, a process discussed in Chapter 5. – – – – Inside 2. Chemical (ligand) gating. Some protein channel gates are opened by the binding of a chemical sub- stance (a ligand) with the protein, which causes a conformational or chemical bonding change in the protein molecule that opens or closes the gate. One Outside of the most important instances of chemical gat- ing is the effect of the neurotransmitter acetylcho- line on the acetylcholine receptor which serves as a ligand- gated ion channel. Acetylcholine opens the Gate open gate of this channel, providing a negatively charged Gate Inside closed K+ K+ pore about 0.65 nanometer in diameter that allows uncharged molecules or positive ions smaller than Figure 4-5. Transport of sodium and potassium ions through protein this diameter to pass through. This gate is exceed- channels. Also shown are conformational changes in the protein mol- ingly important for the transmission of nerve sig- ecules to open or close the “gates” guarding the channels. nals from one nerve cell to another (see Chapter 46) and from nerve cells to muscle cells to cause muscle The narrowest part of the sodium channel’s open pore, contraction (see Chapter 7). the selectivity filter, is lined with strongly negatively charged amino acid residues, as shown in the top panel Open- State Versus Closed- State of Gated Channels. of Figure 4-5. These strong negative charges can pull Figure 4-6A shows two recordings of electrical current small dehydrated sodium ions away from their hydrat- flowing through a single sodium channel when there was ing water molecules into these channels, although the an approximately 25- millivolt potential gradient across ions do not need to be fully dehydrated to pass through the membrane. Note that the channel conducts current the channels. Once in the channel, the sodium ions dif- in an all-or-none fashion. That is, the gate of the channel fuse in either direction according to the usual laws of snaps open and then snaps closed, with each open state diffusion. Thus, the sodium channel is highly selective lasting for only a fraction of a millisecond, up to sever- for passage of sodium ions. al milliseconds, demonstrating the rapidity with which changes can occur during the opening and closing of the Gating of Protein Channels. Gating of
