Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to sever- for passage of sodium ions. al milliseconds, demonstrating the rapidity with which changes can occur during the opening and closing of the Gating of Protein Channels. Gating of protein chan- protein gates. At one voltage potential, the channel may nels provides a means of controlling ion permeability of remain closed all the time or almost all the time, whereas the channels. This mechanism is shown in both panels of at another voltage, it may remain open either all or most Figure 4-5 for selective gating of sodium and potassium of the time. At in-b etween voltages, as shown in the fig- ions. Some of the gates are thought to be gatelike exten- ure, the gates tend to snap open and closed intermittently, sions of the transport protein molecule, which can close resulting in an average current flow somewhere between the opening of the channel or can be lifted away from the the minimum and maximum. opening by a conformational change in the shape of the protein molecule. Patch Clamp Method for Recording Ion Current Flow The opening and closing of gates are controlled in two Through Single Channels. The patch clamp method for principal ways: recording ion current flow through single protein chan- 1. Voltage gating. In the case of voltage gating, the nels is illustrated in Figure 4-6B. A micropipette with a molecular conformation of the gate or its chemi- tip diameter of only 1 or 2 micrometers is abutted against cal bonds responds to the electrical potential across the outside of a cell membrane. Suction is then applied the cell membrane. For example, in the top panel of inside the pipette to pull the membrane against the tip of Figure 4-5, a strong negative charge on the inside the pipette, which creates a seal where the edges of the of the cell membrane may cause the outside sodium pipette touch the cell membrane. The result is a minute gates to remain tightly closed. Conversely, when the membrane “patch” at the tip of the pipette through which inside of the membrane loses its negative charge, electrical current flow can be recorded. these gates open suddenly and allow sodium to pass Alternatively, as shown at the bottom right in Figure inward through the sodium pores. This process is 4-6B, the small cell membrane patch at the end of the the basic mechanism for eliciting action potentials pipette can
