Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in Figure inward through the sodium pores. This process is 4-6B, the small cell membrane patch at the end of the the basic mechanism for eliciting action potentials pipette can be torn away from the cell. The pipette with in nerves that are responsible for nerve signals. In its sealed patch is then inserted into a free solution, which 54 Chapter 4 Transport of Substances Through Cell Membranes Open sodium channel Simple diffusion 3 V max 0 Facilitated diffusion 3 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 Concentration of substance A Milliseconds Figure 4-7. Effect of concentration of a substance on the rate of diffusion through a membrane by simple diffusion and facilitated Recorder diffusion. This graph shows that facilitated diffusion approaches a maximum rate, called the V . max FACILITATED DIFFUSION REQUIRES MEMBRANE CARRIER PROTEINS Facilitated diffusion is also called carrier- mediated diffu- sion because a substance transported in this manner dif- To recorder fuses through the membrane with the help of a specific carrier protein. That is, the carrier facilitates diffusion of the substance to the other side. Facilitated diffusion differs from simple diffusion in the following important way. Although the rate of simple dif- fusion through an open channel increases proportionately with the concentration of the diffusing substance, in facili- tated diffusion the rate of diffusion approaches a maximum, called V , as the concentration of the diffusing substance max increases. This difference between simple diffusion and facil- itated diffusion is demonstrated in Figure 4-7. The figure shows that as the concentration of the diffusing substance increases, the rate of simple diffusion continues to increase Membrane proportionately but, in the case of facilitated diffusion, the “patch” rate of diffusion cannot rise higher than the V level. max What is it that limits the rate of facilitated diffusion? A B probable answer is the mechanism illustrated in Figure Figure 4-6. A, Recording of current flow through a single voltage- 4-8. This Figure shows a carrier protein with a pore large gated sodium channel, demonstrating the all or none principle for enough to transport a specific molecule partway through. opening and closing of the channel. B, Patch clamp method for re- cording current flow through a single protein channel. To the left, the It also shows a binding receptor on the inside of the pro- recording is performed from a “patch” of a living cell membrane. To tein carrier.
