Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


To the left, the It also shows a binding receptor on the inside of the pro- recording is performed from a “patch” of a living cell membrane. To tein carrier. The molecule to be transported enters the the right, the recording is from a membrane patch that has been torn pore and becomes bound. Then, in a fraction of a second, away from the cell. a conformational or chemical change occurs in the carrier protein, so that the pore now opens to the opposite side allows the concentrations of ions both inside the micropi- of the membrane. Because the binding force of the recep- pette and in the outside solution to be altered as desired. tor is weak, the thermal motion of the attached molecule Also, the voltage between the two sides of the membrane causes it to break away and be released on the opposite can be set, or “clamped,” to a given voltage. side of the membrane. The rate at which molecules can It has been possible to make such patches small enough be transported by this mechanism can never be greater so that only a single channel protein is found in the mem- than the rate at which the carrier protein molecule can brane patch being studied. By varying the concentrations undergo change back and forth between its two states. of different ions, as well as the voltage across the mem- Note specifically, though, that this mechanism allows the brane, one can determine the transport characteristics of transported molecule to move—that is, diffuse—in either the single channel, along with its gating properties. direction through the membrane. 55 serepmaociP noisuffid fo etaR UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Transported Outside Inside molecule Binding point C C o i Carrier protein A Membrane and conformational change − − – + − – + − − − − − − − − − − − − − − −−− − − − − − −− −− − − − − − − − − − − − − − − − − − − − − − − B Release of binding Figure 4-8. Postulated mechanism for facilitated diffusion. Among the many substances that cross cell mem- branes by facilitated diffusion are glucose and most of the Piston P P 1 2 amino acids. In the case of glucose, at least 14 members of a family of
