Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


branes by facilitated diffusion are glucose and most of the Piston P P 1 2 amino acids. In the case of glucose, at least 14 members of a family of membrane proteins (called GLUT) that trans- port glucose molecules have been discovered in various C tissues. Some of these GLUT proteins transport other Figure 4-9. Effect of concentration difference (A), electrical poten- monosaccharides that have structures similar to that of tial difference affecting negative ions (B), and pressure difference (C) glucose, including galactose and fructose. One of these, to cause diffusion of molecules and ions through a cell membrane. C , concentration outside the cell; C, concentration inside the cell; glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4), is activated by insulin, o i P pressure 1; P pressure 2 . which can increase the rate of facilitated diffusion of glu- 1 2 cose as much as 10- to 20- fold in insulin- sensitive tissues. in which C is the concentration outside and C is the con- This is the principal mechanism whereby insulin controls o i centration inside the cell. glucose use in the body, as discussed in Chapter 79. Membrane Electrical Potential and Diffusion of FACTORS THAT AFFECT NET RATE OF Ions—The “Nernst Potential.” If an electrical poten- DIFFUSION tial is applied across the membrane, as shown in Figure 4-9B, the electrical charges of the ions cause them to By now, it is evident that many substances can diffuse move through the membrane even though no concen- through the cell membrane. What is usually important tration difference exists to cause movement. Thus, in the is the net rate of diffusion of a substance in the desired left panel of Figure 4-9B, the concentration of negative direction. This net rate is determined by several factors. ions is the same on both sides of the membrane, but a positive charge has been applied to the right side of the Net Diffusion Rate Is Proportional to the Concen- membrane, and a negative charge has been applied to the tration Difference Across a Membrane. Figure 4-9A left, creating an electrical gradient across the membrane. shows a cell membrane with a high concentration of a The positive charge attracts the negative ions, whereas the substance on the outside and a low concentration of a negative charge repels them. Therefore, net diffusion oc- substance on the inside. The rate at which the substance curs from left to right.
