Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


outside and a low concentration of a negative charge repels them. Therefore, net diffusion oc- substance on the inside. The rate at which the substance curs from left to right. After some time, large quantities of diffuses inward is proportional to the concentration of negative ions have moved to the right, creating the condi- molecules on the outside because this concentration de- tion shown in the right panel of Figure 4-9B, in which a termines how many molecules strike the outside of the concentration difference of the ions has developed in the membrane each second. Conversely, the rate at which direction opposite to the electrical potential difference. molecules diffuse outward is proportional to their con- The concentration difference now tends to move the ions centration inside the membrane. Therefore, the rate of net to the left, whereas the electrical difference tends to move diffusion into the cell is proportional to the concentration them to the right. When the concentration difference on the outside minus the concentration on the inside: rises high enough, the two effects balance each other. At normal body temperature (98.6°F; 37°C), the electrical dif- Net diffusion∝(C −C) o i ference that will balance a given concentration difference 56 Chapter 4 Transport of Substances Through Cell Membranes of univalent ions—such as Na+ ions—can be determined Water NaCl solution from the following formula, called the Nernst equation: C EMF(in millivolts)=±61log 1 C 2 in which EMF is the electromotive force (voltage) between side 1 and side 2 of the membrane, C is the con- 1 centration on side 1, and C is the concentration on side 2 2. This equation is extremely important in understanding the transmission of nerve impulses and is discussed in Chapter 5. Effect of a Pressure Difference Across the Membrane. At times, a considerable pressure difference develops be- Osmosis tween the two sides of a diffusible membrane. This pres- sure difference occurs, for example, at the blood capillary Figure 4-10. Osmosis at a cell membrane when a sodium chloride solution is placed on one side of the membrane and water is placed membranes in all tissues of the body. The pressure in on the other side. many capillaries is about 20 mm Hg greater inside than outside. Pressure actually means the sum of all the forces of the other side. Water molecules pass through the cell mem- different molecules striking a unit surface area at
