Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


than outside. Pressure actually means the sum of all the forces of the other side. Water molecules pass through the cell mem- different molecules striking a unit surface area at a given brane with ease, whereas sodium and chloride ions pass instant. Therefore, having a higher pressure on one side of a through only with difficulty. Therefore, sodium chloride membrane than on the other side means that the sum of all solution is actually a mixture of permeant water mole- the forces of the molecules striking the channels on that side cules and nonpermeant sodium and chloride ions, and of the membrane is greater than on the other side. In most the membrane is said to be selectively permeable to water cases, this situation is caused by greater numbers of mole- but much less so to sodium and chloride ions. Yet, the cules striking the membrane per second on one side than on presence of the sodium and chloride has displaced some the other side. The result is that increased amounts of energy of the water molecules on the side of the membrane are available to cause a net movement of molecules from where these ions are present and, therefore, has reduced the high- pressure side toward the low- pressure side. This the concentration of water molecules to less than that of effect is demonstrated in Figure 4-9C, which shows a pis- pure water. As a result, in the example shown in Figure ton developing high pressure on one side of a pore, thereby 4-10, more water molecules strike the channels on the causing more molecules to strike the pore on this side and, left side, where there is pure water, than on the right side, therefore, more molecules to diffuse to the other side. where the water concentration has been reduced. Thus, net movement of water occurs from left to right—that OSMOSIS ACROSS SELECTIVELY is, osmosis occurs from the pure water into the sodium PERMEABLE MEMBRANES—“NET chloride solution. DIFFUSION” OF WATER Osmotic Pressure By far, the most abundant substance that diffuses through If in Figure 4-10 pressure were applied to the sodium the cell membrane is water. Enough water ordinarily dif- chloride solution, osmosis of water into this solution fuses in each direction through the red blood cell mem- would be slowed, stopped, or even reversed. The amount brane per second to equal about 100 times the volume of
