Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fuses in each direction through the red blood cell mem- would be slowed, stopped, or even reversed. The amount brane per second to equal about 100 times the volume of of pressure required to stop osmosis is called the osmotic the cell itself. Yet, the amount that normally diffuses in pressure of the sodium chloride solution. the two directions is balanced so precisely that zero net The principle of a pressure difference opposing osmo- movement of water occurs. Therefore, the volume of the sis is demonstrated in Figure 4-11, which shows a selec- cell remains constant. However, under certain conditions, tively permeable membrane separating two columns of a concentration difference for water can develop across fluid, one containing pure water and the other contain- a membrane. When this concentration difference for ing a solution of water and any solute that will not pen- water develops, net movement of water does occur across etrate the membrane. Osmosis of water from chamber B the cell membrane, causing the cell to swell or shrink, into chamber A causes the levels of the fluid columns to depending on the direction of the water movement. This become farther and farther apart, until eventually a pres- process of net movement of water caused by a concentra- sure difference develops between the two sides of the tion difference of water is called osmosis. membrane that is great enough to oppose the osmotic To illustrate osmosis, let us assume the conditions effect. The pressure difference across the membrane at shown in Figure 4-10, with pure water on one side of the this point is equal to the osmotic pressure of the solution cell membrane and a solution of sodium chloride on the that contains the nondiffusible solute. 57 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Chamber A Chamber B Thus, a solution that has 1 osmole of solute dissolved in each kilogram of water is said to have an osmolality of 1 osmole per kilogram, and a solution that has 1/1000 osmole dissolved per kilogram has an osmolality of 1 milliosmole per kilogram. The normal osmolality of the cm H O 2 extracellular and intracellular fluids is about 300 millios- moles per kilogram of water. Relationship of Osmolality to Osmotic Pressure. At normal body temperature, 37°C (98.6°F), a concentration Semipermeable of 1 osmole per liter will cause 19,300 mm Hg osmotic membrane pressure in the solution.
