Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of Osmolality to Osmotic Pressure. At normal body temperature, 37°C (98.6°F), a concentration Semipermeable of 1 osmole per liter will cause 19,300 mm Hg osmotic membrane pressure in the solution. Likewise, 1 milliosmole per lit- er concentration is equivalent to 19.3 mm Hg osmotic pressure. Multiplying this value by the 300- milliosmolar concentration of the body fluids gives a total calculated osmotic pressure of the body fluids of 5790 mm Hg. The measured value for this, however, averages only about 5500 mm Hg. The reason for this difference is that many ions in the body fluids, such as sodium and chloride ions, Figure 4-11. Demonstration of osmotic pressure caused by osmosis are highly attracted to one another; consequently, they at a semipermeable membrane. cannot move entirely unrestrained in the fluids and create their full osmotic pressure potential. Therefore, on aver- Importance of Number of Osmotic Particles (Molar age, the actual osmotic pressure of the body fluids is about Concentration) in Determining Osmotic Pressure. 0.93 times the calculated value. The osmotic pressure exerted by particles in a solution, whether they are molecules or ions, is determined by the The Term Osmolarity. Osmolarity is the osmolar con- number of particles per unit volume of fluid, not by the centration expressed as osmoles per liter of solution rather mass of the particles. The reason for this is that each par- than osmoles per kilogram of water. Although, strictly ticle in a solution, regardless of its mass, exerts, on aver- speaking, it is osmoles per kilogram of water (osmolality) age, the same amount of pressure against the membrane. that determines osmotic pressure, the quantitative differ- That is, large particles, which have greater mass (m) than ences between osmolarity and osmolality are less than 1% small particles, move at a slower velocity (v). The small for dilute solutions such as those in the body. Because it is particles move at higher velocities in such a way that their far more practical to measure osmolarity than osmolality, average kinetic energies (k), as determined by the follow- measuring osmolarity is the usual practice in physiologi- ing equation, cal studies. mv2 k= 2 ACTIVE TRANSPORT OF SUBSTANCES THROUGH MEMBRANES are the same for each small particle as for each large parti- cle. Consequently, the factor that determines the osmotic At times, a large concentration of a substance is required pressure of a solution is the concentration of the
