Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


each large parti- cle. Consequently, the factor that determines the osmotic At times, a large concentration of a substance is required pressure of a solution is the concentration of the solution in the intracellular fluid, even though the extracellular in terms of the number of particles (which is the same as fluid contains only a small concentration. This situation its molar concentration if it is a nondissociated molecule), is true, for example, for potassium ions. Conversely, it is not in terms of mass of the solute. important to keep the concentrations of other ions very low inside the cell, even though their concentrations in the Osmolality—The Osmole. To express the concentration extracellular fluid are high. This situation is especially true of a solution in terms of numbers of particles, a unit called for sodium ions. Neither of these two effects could occur by the osmole is used in place of grams. simple diffusion because simple diffusion eventually equil- One osmole is 1 gram molecular weight of osmotically ibrates concentrations on the two sides of the membrane. active solute. Thus, 180 grams of glucose, which is 1 gram Instead, some energy source must cause excess movement molecular weight of glucose, is equal to 1 osmole of glucose of potassium ions to the inside of cells and excess move- because glucose does not dissociate into ions. If a solute dis- ment of sodium ions to the outside of cells. When a cell sociates into two ions, 1 gram molecular weight of the solute membrane moves molecules or ions uphill against a con- will become 2 osmoles because the number of osmotically centration gradient (or uphill against an electrical or pres- active particles is now twice as great as for the nondissociated sure gradient), the process is called active transport. solute. Therefore, when fully dissociated, 1 gram molecular Some examples of substances that are actively trans- weight of sodium chloride, 58.5 grams, is equal to 2 osmoles. ported through at least some cell membranes include 58 Chapter 4 Transport of Substances Through Cell Membranes sodium, potassium, calcium, iron, hydrogen, chloride, 3Na+ Outside iodide, and urate ions, several different sugars, and most 2K+ of the amino acids. Primary Active Transport and Secondary Active Transport. Active transport is divided into two types ac- cording to the source of the energy used to facilitate the transport, primary active transport and secondary active transport. In primary active
