Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Active transport is divided into two types ac- cording to the source of the energy used to facilitate the transport, primary active transport and secondary active transport. In primary active transport, the energy is de- rived directly from the breakdown of adenosine triphos- ATPase phate (ATP) or some other high-e nergy phosphate com- pound. In secondary active transport, the energy is derived 3Na+ ADP ATP + secondarily from energy that has been stored in the form Inside 2K+ Pi of ionic concentration differences of secondary molecular Figure 4-12. Postulated mechanism of the sodium- potassium pump. or ionic substances between the two sides of a cell mem- ADP, Adenosine diphosphate; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; Pi, phos- brane, created originally by primary active transport. In phate ion. both cases, transport depends on carrier proteins that pen- etrate through the cell membrane, as is true for facilitated diffusion. However, in active transport, the carrier protein 2. It has two binding sites for potassium ions on the functions differently from the carrier in facilitated diffusion outside. because it is capable of imparting energy to the transported 3. The inside portion of this protein near the sodium substance to move it against the electrochemical gradient. binding sites has adenosine triphosphatase (AT- The following sections provide some examples of primary Pase) activity. active transport and secondary active transport, with more When two potassium ions bind on the outside of detailed explanations of their principles of function. the carrier protein and three sodium ions bind on the inside, the ATPase function of the protein becomes PRIMARY ACTIVE TRANSPORT activated. Activation of the ATPase function leads to cleavage of one molecule of ATP, splitting it to adenos- Sodium- Potassium Pump Transports ine diphosphate (ADP) and liberating a high- energy Sodium Ions Out of Cells and Potassium phosphate bond of energy. This liberated energy is Ions into Cells believed to cause a chemical and conformational Among the substances that are transported by primary change in the protein carrier molecule, extruding active transport are sodium, potassium, calcium, hydro- three sodium ions to the outside and two potassium gen, chloride, and a few other ions. The active transport ions to the inside. mechanism that has been studied in greatest detail is the As with other enzymes, the Na+- K+ ATPase pump can sodium- potassium (Na+- K+) pump, a transporter that run in reverse. If the electrochemical gradients for Na+ pumps sodium ions
