Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


As with other enzymes, the Na+- K+ ATPase pump can sodium- potassium (Na+- K+) pump, a transporter that run in reverse. If the electrochemical gradients for Na+ pumps sodium ions outward through the cell membrane and K+ are experimentally increased to the degree that the of all cells and, at the same time, pumps potassium ions energy stored in their gradients is greater than the chemi- from the outside to the inside. This pump is responsible cal energy of ATP hydrolysis, these ions will move down for maintaining the sodium and potassium concentra- their concentration gradients, and the Na+- K+ pump will tion differences across the cell membrane, as well as for synthesize ATP from ADP and phosphate. The phosphor- establishing a negative electrical voltage inside the cells. ylated form of the Na+- K+ pump, therefore, can either Indeed, Chapter 5 shows that this pump is also the basis donate its phosphate to ADP to produce ATP or use the of nerve function, transmitting nerve signals throughout energy to change its conformation and pump Na+ out of the nervous system. the cell and K+ into the cell. The relative concentrations of Figure 4-12 shows the basic physical components of ATP, ADP, and phosphate, as well as the electrochemical the Na+- K+ pump. The carrier protein is a complex of gradients for Na+ and K+, determine the direction of the two separate globular proteins—a larger one called the α enzyme reaction. For some cells, such as electrically active subunit, with a molecular weight of about 100,000, and a nerve cells, 60% to 70% of the cell’s energy requirement smaller one called the β subunit, with a molecular weight may be devoted to pumping Na+ out of the cell and K+ of about 55,000. Although the function of the smaller pro- into the cell. tein is not known (except that it might anchor the protein complex in the lipid membrane), the larger protein has The Na+- K+ Pump Is Important for Controlling Cell three specific features that are important for the function- Volume. One of the most important functions of the ing of the pump: Na+- K+ pump is to control the cell volume. Without func- 1. It has three binding sites for sodium ions on the portion tion of this pump, most cells of the body would swell until of the protein that protrudes to the inside of the cell. they
