Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


for sodium ions on the portion tion of this pump, most cells of the body would swell until of the protein that protrudes to the inside of the cell. they burst. 59 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle The mechanism for controlling the volume is as fol- Primary Active Transport of Hydrogen lows. Inside the cell are large numbers of proteins and Ions other organic molecules that cannot escape from the cell. Most of these proteins and other organic molecules are Primary active transport of hydrogen ions is especially negatively charged and, therefore, attract large numbers important at two places in the body: (1) in the gastric of potassium, sodium, and other positive ions. All these glands of the stomach; and (2) in the late distal tubules molecules and ions then cause osmosis of water to the and cortical collecting ducts of the kidneys. interior of the cell. Unless this process is checked, the cell In the gastric glands, the deep- lying parietal cells have will swell indefinitely until it bursts. The normal mecha- the most potent primary active mechanism for transport- nism for preventing this outcome is the Na+- K+ pump. ing hydrogen ions of any part of the body. This mechanism Note again that this mechanism pumps three Na+ ions to is the basis for secreting hydrochloric acid in stomach the outside of the cell for every two K+ ions pumped to digestive secretions. At the secretory ends of the gastric the interior. Also, the membrane is far less permeable to gland parietal cells, the hydrogen ion concentration is sodium ions than to potassium ions and, once the sodium increased as much as a million- fold and then is released ions are on the outside, they have a strong tendency to into the stomach, along with chloride ions, to form hydro- stay there. This process thus represents a net loss of ions chloric acid. out the cell, which also initiates osmosis of water out of In the renal tubules, special intercalated cells found in the cell. the late distal tubules and cortical collecting ducts also If a cell begins to swell for any reason, the Na+- K+ transport hydrogen ions by primary active transport. In pump is automatically activated, moving still more ions this case, large amounts of hydrogen ions are secreted to the exterior and carrying water with them. Therefore, from the blood into
