Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pump is automatically activated, moving still more ions this case, large amounts of hydrogen ions are secreted to the exterior and carrying water with them. Therefore, from the blood into the renal tubular fluid for the purpose the Na+- K+ pump performs a continual surveillance role of eliminating excess hydrogen ions from the body fluids. in maintaining normal cell volume. The hydrogen ions can be secreted into the renal tubular fluid against a concentration gradient of about 900- fold. Electrogenic Nature of the Na+- K+ Pump. The fact Yet, as discussed in Chapter 31, most of these hydrogen that the Na+- K+ pump moves three Na+ ions to the exte- ions combine with tubular fluid buffers before they are rior for every two K+ ions that are moved to the interior eliminated in the urine means that a net of one positive charge is moved from Energetics of Primary Active Transport the interior of the cell to the exterior of the cell for each cycle of the pump. This action creates positivity outside The amount of energy required to transport a substance the cell but results in a deficit of positive ions inside the actively through a membrane is determined by how much cell; that is, it causes negativity on the inside. Therefore, the substance is concentrated during transport. Com- the Na+- K+ pump is said to be electrogenic because it cre- pared with the energy required to concentrate a sub- ates an electrical potential across the cell membrane. As stance 10- fold, concentrating it 100-f old requires twice discussed in Chapter 5, this electrical potential is a basic as much energy, and concentrating it 1000- fold requires requirement in nerve and muscle fibers for transmitting three times as much energy. In other words, the energy nerve and muscle signals. required is proportional to the logarithm of the degree that the substance is concentrated, as expressed by the Primary Active Transport of Calcium Ions following formula: Another important primary active transport mecha- C Energy(in calories per osmole)=1400log 1 nism is the calcium pump. Calcium ions are normally C 2 maintained at an extremely low concentration in the intracellular cytosol of virtually all cells in the body, Thus, in terms of calories, the amount of energy required at a concentration about 10,000 times less than that to concentrate 1 osmole of a substance 10-f old is about in the extracellular fluid.
