Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


calories, the amount of energy required at a concentration about 10,000 times less than that to concentrate 1 osmole of a substance 10-f old is about in the extracellular fluid. This level of maintenance 1400 calories, whereas to concentrate it 100- fold, 2800 is achieved mainly by two primary active transport calories are required. One can see that the energy expen- calcium pumps. One, which is in the cell membrane, diture for concentrating substances in cells or for remov- pumps calcium to the outside of the cell. The other ing substances from cells against a concentration gradient pumps calcium ions into one or more of the intracel- can be tremendous. Some cells, such as those lining the lular vesicular organelles of the cell, such as the sarco- renal tubules and many glandular cells, expend as much plasmic reticulum of muscle cells and the mitochondria as 90% of their energy for this purpose alone. in all cells. In each of these cases, the carrier protein penetrates the membrane and functions as an enzyme SECONDARY ACTIVE TRANSPORT— ATPase, with the same capability to cleave ATP as the CO- TRANSPORT AND COUNTER- TRANSPORT ATPase of the sodium carrier protein. The difference is that this protein has a highly specific binding site for When sodium ions are transported out of cells by pri- calcium instead of for sodium. mary active transport, a large concentration gradient of 60 Chapter 4 Transport of Substances Through Cell Membranes sodium ions across the cell membrane usually develops, Na+ Glucose with a high concentration outside the cell and a low con- centration inside. This gradient represents a storehouse Na-binding Glucose-binding of energy, because the excess sodium outside the cell site site membrane is always attempting to diffuse to the interior. Under appropriate conditions, this diffusion energy of sodium can pull other substances along with the sodium through the cell membrane. This phenomenon, called co- transport, is one form of secondary active transport. For sodium to pull another substance along with it, a coupling mechanism is required; this is achieved by Na+ Glucose means of still another carrier protein in the cell mem- brane. The carrier in this case serves as an attachment Figure 4-13 Postulated mechanism for sodium co- transport of glucose. point for both the sodium ion and the substance to be co- transported. Once they are both attached, the energy gradient of the sodium ion causes the
