Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


transport of glucose. point for both the sodium ion and the substance to be co- transported. Once they are both attached, the energy gradient of the sodium ion causes the sodium ion and the Na+ Na+ other substance to be transported together to the interior Outside of the cell. In counter- transport, sodium ions again attempt to dif- fuse to the interior of the cell because of their large con- centration gradient. However, this time, the substance to be transported is on the inside of the cell and is trans- Inside Ca2+ H+ ported to the outside. Therefore, the sodium ion binds to the carrier protein, where it projects to the exterior sur- Figure 4-14. Sodium counter- transport of calcium and hydrogen ions. face of the membrane, and the substance to be counter- transported binds to the interior projection of the carrier Sodium co- transport of glucose and amino acids protein. Once both have become bound, a conformational occurs especially through the epithelial cells of the intes- change occurs, and energy released by the action of the tinal tract and the renal tubules of the kidneys to promote sodium ion moving to the interior causes the other sub- absorption of these substances into the blood. This pro- stance to move to the exterior. cess will be discussed in later chapters. Other important co- transport mechanisms in at least Co- Transport of Glucose and Amino Acids some cells include co- transport of potassium, chloride, Along with Sodium Ions bicarbonate, phosphate, iodine, iron, and urate ions. Glucose and many amino acids are transported into Sodium Counter- Transport of Calcium and most cells against large concentration gradients; the Hydrogen Ions mechanism of this action is entirely by co- transport, as shown in Figure 4-13. Note that the transport carrier Two especially important counter- transporters (i.e., protein has two binding sites on its exterior side, one for transport in a direction opposite to the primary ion) are sodium and one for glucose. Also, the concentration of sodium- calcium counter- transport and sodium- hydrogen sodium ions is high on the outside and low on the inside, counter- transport (Figure 4-14). which provides energy for the transport. A special prop- Sodium- calcium counter- transport occurs through erty of the transport protein is that a conformational all or almost all cell membranes, with sodium ions mov- change to allow sodium movement to the interior will ing to
