Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


erty of the transport protein is that a conformational all or almost all cell membranes, with sodium ions mov- change to allow sodium movement to the interior will ing to the interior and calcium ions to the exterior; both not occur until a glucose molecule also attaches. When are bound to the same transport protein in a counter- they both become attached, the conformational change transport mode. This mechanism is in addition to the pri- takes place, and the sodium and glucose are transported mary active transport of calcium that occurs in some cells. to the inside of the cell at the same time. Hence, this Sodium- hydrogen counter- transport occurs in several is a sodium- glucose co- transporter. Sodium- glucose co- tissues. An especially important example is in the proxi- transporters are especially important for transporting mal tubules of the kidneys, where sodium ions move from glucose across renal and intestinal epithelial cells, as dis- the lumen of the tubule to the interior of the tubular cell cussed in Chapters 28 and 66. and hydrogen ions are counter- transported into the tubule Sodium co-t ransport of amino acids occurs in the same lumen. As a mechanism for concentrating hydrogen ions, manner as for glucose, except that it uses a different set counter- transport is not nearly as powerful as the primary of transport proteins. At least five amino acid transport active transport of hydrogen ions that occurs in the more dis- proteins have been identified, each of which is responsible tal renal tubules, but it can transport extremely large numbers for transporting one subset of amino acids with specific of hydrogen ions, thus making it a key to hydrogen ion control molecular characteristics. in the body fluids, as discussed in detail in Chapter 31. 61 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Brush Basement blood from the intestine. These mechanisms are also how border membrane the same substances are reabsorbed from the glomerular filtrate by the renal tubules. Numerous examples of the different types of transport Na+ Na+ discussed in this chapter are provided throughout this Active text. transport Osmosis Na+ and H O 2 Bibliography Active Osmosis transport Active Agre P, Kozono D: Aquaporin water channels: molecular mechanisms Na+ Na+ transport for human diseases. FEBS Lett 555:72, 2003. Osmosis Bröer S: Amino acid transport across mammalian intestinal and renal epithelia. Physiol Rev 88:249, 2008. Diffusion DeCoursey
