Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Again, the membrane potential rises high enough impulses at their membranes, and these impulses are used within milliseconds to block further net diffusion of to transmit signals along the nerve or muscle membranes. sodium ions to the inside; however, this time, in the mam- In other types of cells, such as glandular cells, macro- malian nerve fiber, the potential is about 61 millivolts posi- phages, and ciliated cells, local changes in membrane tive inside the fiber. potentials also activate many of the cell’s functions. This Thus, in both parts of Figure 5- 1, we see that a con- chapter reviews the basic mechanisms whereby mem- centration difference of ions across a selectively perme- brane potentials are generated at rest and during action able membrane can, under appropriate conditions, create by nerve and muscle cells. See Video 5- 1. a membrane potential. Later in this chapter, we show that many of the rapid changes in membrane potentials observed during nerve and muscle impulse transmission BASIC PHYSICS OF MEMBRANE result from such rapidly changing diffusion potentials. POTENTIALS The Nernst Equation Describes the Relationship of Membrane Potentials Caused by Ion Diffusion Potential to the Ion Concentration Difference Concentration Differences Across a Across a Membrane. The diffusion potential across a Selectively Permeable Membrane membrane that exactly opposes the net diffusion of a par- In Figure 5- 1A, the potassium concentration is great ticular ion through the membrane is called the Nernst po- inside a nerve fiber membrane but very low outside the tential for that ion, a term that was introduced in Chapter membrane. Let us assume that the membrane in this case 4. The magnitude of the Nernst potential is determined is permeable to the potassium ions but not to any other by the ratio of the concentrations of that specific ion on ions. Because of the large potassium concentration gradi- the two sides of the membrane. The greater this ratio, the ent from the inside toward the outside, there is a strong greater the tendency for the ion to diffuse in one direction tendency for potassium ions to diffuse outward through and therefore the greater the Nernst potential required to the membrane. As they do so, they carry positive electri- prevent additional net diffusion. The following equation, cal charges to the outside, thus creating electropositivity called the Nernst equation, can be used to calculate the outside the membrane and electronegativity inside the
