Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and potassium channels undergoes rapid side (o) of the membrane. Thus, the following formula, changes during transmission of a nerve impulse, called the Goldman equation or the Goldman-H odgkin- whereas the permeability of the chloride channels does Katz equation, gives the calculated membrane potential not change greatly during this process. Therefore, rapid on the inside of the membrane when two univalent pos- changes in sodium and potassium permeability are pri- itive ions, sodium (Na+) and potassium (K+), and one marily responsible for signal transmission in neurons, univalent negative ion, chloride (Cl−), are involved: which is the subject of most of the remainder of this C P +C P +C P chapter. EMF(millivolts)=−61×log Nai+ Na+ Ki+ K+ CIo− CI− C P +C P +C P Nao+ Na++ Ko+ K+ CIi− CI− Resting Membrane Potential of Different Cell Types. In some cells, such as the cardiac pacemaker cells discussed Several key points become evident from the Goldman in Chapter 10, the membrane potential is continuously equation. First, sodium, potassium, and chloride ions are changing, and the cells are never “resting”. In many other the most important ions involved in the development of cells, even excitable cells, there is a quiescent period in which membrane potentials in nerve and muscle fibers, as well a resting membrane potential can be measured. Table 5- 1 as in the neuronal cells. The concentration gradient of shows the approximate resting membrane potentials of some each of these ions across the membrane helps determine different types of cells. The membrane potential is obviously the voltage of the membrane potential. very dynamic in excitable cells such as neurons, in which Second, the quantitative importance of each of the ions action potentials occur. However, even in nonexcitable cells, in determining the voltage is proportional to the membrane the membrane potential (voltage) also changes in response permeability for that particular ion. If the membrane has to various stimuli, which alter activities for the various ion zero permeability to sodium and chloride ions, the mem- transporters, ion channels, and membrane permeability for sodium, potassium, calcium, and chloride ions. The resting brane potential becomes entirely dominated by the concen- membrane potential is, therefore, only a brief transient state tration gradient of potassium ions alone, and the resulting for many cells. potential will be equal to the Nernst potential for potassium. Electrochemical Driving Force. When multiple ions The same holds true for each of
