Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of positively and negatively charged ions in force is equal to the difference between the membrane po- the extracellular fluid surrounding a nerve fiber and in the fluid inside tential (V ) and the equilibrium potential of the ion (V ) m eq the fiber. Note the alignment of negative charges along the inside Thus, V = V – V . df m eq surface of the membrane and positive charges along the outside The arithmetic sign of V (positive or negative) and the df surface. The lower panel displays the abrupt changes in membrane valence of the ion (cation or anion) can be used to predict potential that occur at the membranes on the two sides of the fiber. the direction of ion flow across the membrane, into or out of the cell. For cations such as Na+ and K+, a positive V df is zero, which is the potential of the extracellular fluid. predicts ion movement out of the cell down its electro- Then, as the recording electrode passes through the volt- chemical gradient, and a negative V predicts ion move- df ment into the cell. For anions, such as Cl−, a positive V age change area at the cell membrane (called the electrical df predicts ion movement into the cell, and a negative V pre- dipole layer), the potential decreases abruptly to −70 mil- df dicts ion movement out of the cell. When V = V , there livolts. Moving across the center of the fiber, the potential m eq is no net movement of the ion into or out of the cell. Also, remains at a steady −70- millivolt level but reverses back the direction of ion flux through the membrane reverses as to zero the instant it passes through the membrane on the V m becomes greater than or less than V eq; hence, the equi- opposite side of the fiber. librium potential (V ) is also called the reversal potential. eq To create a negative potential inside the membrane, only enough positive ions to develop the electrical dipole layer at the membrane itself must be trans- Measuring the Membrane Potential ported outward. The remaining ions inside the nerve The method for measuring the membrane potential is fiber can be both positive and negative, as shown in simple in theory but often difficult in practice because of the upper panel of Figure 5-3 . Therefore,
