Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


potential is fiber can be both positive and negative, as shown in simple in theory but often difficult in practice because of the upper panel of Figure 5-3 . Therefore, transfer of the small size of most of the cells and fibers. Figure 5-2 an incredibly small number of ions through the mem- shows a small micropipette filled with an electrolyte solu- brane can establish the normal resting potential of −70 tion. The micropipette is impaled through the cell mem- millivolts inside the nerve fiber, which means that only brane to the interior of the fiber. Another electrode, called about 1/3,000,000 to 1/100,000,000 of the total posi- the indifferent electrode, is then placed in the extracellu- tive charges inside the fiber must be transferred. Also, lar fluid, and the potential difference between the inside an equally small number of positive ions moving from and outside of the fiber is measured using an appropriate outside to inside the fiber can reverse the potential voltmeter. This voltmeter is a highly sophisticated elec- from −70 millivolts to as much as +35 millivolts within tronic apparatus that is capable of measuring small volt- as little as 1/10,000 of a second. Rapid shifting of ions in ages despite extremely high resistance to electrical flow this manner causes the nerve signals discussed in sub- through the tip of the micropipette, which has a lumen sequent sections of this chapter. diameter usually less than 1 micrometer and a resistance of more than 1 million ohms. For recording rapid changes RESTING MEMBRANE POTENTIAL OF in the membrane potential during transmission of nerve NEURONS impulses, the microelectrode is connected to an oscillo- scope, as explained later in the chapter. The resting membrane potential of large nerve fibers when The lower part of Figure 5- 3 shows the electrical they are not transmitting nerve signals is about −70 mil- potential that is measured at each point in or near the livolts. That is, the potential inside the fiber is 70 millivolts nerve fiber membrane, beginning at the left side of the more negative than the potential in the extracellular fluid figure and passing to the right. As long as the electrode is on the outside of the fiber. In the next few paragraphs, the outside the neuronal membrane, the recorded potential transport properties of the resting nerve membrane for 65 laitnetop lacirtcelE )stlovillim( UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve,
