Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


+ + + – – – – – – – – – – Contribution of Sodium Diffusion Through the + + + + – – – – + + + + + + Nerve Membrane. Figure 5-5 B shows the addition of slight permeability of the nerve membrane to sodium Overshoot ions, caused by the minute diffusion of sodium ions through the K+-N a+ leak channels. The ratio of sodium +35 ions from inside to outside the membrane is 0.1, which gives a calculated Nernst potential for the inside of the 0 membrane of +61 millivolts. Also shown in Figure 5-5 B on R is the Nernst potential for potassium diffusion of −94 zati e p o millivolts. How do these interact with each other, and olari la ri z what will be the summated potential? This question can ep ati be answered by using the Goldman equation described D o n –70 previously. Intuitively, one can see that if the membrane Resting is highly permeable to potassium but only slightly per- 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 meable to sodium, the diffusion of potassium contributes Milliseconds far more to the membrane potential than the diffusion of sodium. In the normal nerve fiber, the permeability of Figure 5- 6 Typical action potential recorded by the method shown in the upper panel. the membrane to potassium is about 100 times as great as its permeability to sodium. Using this value in the Goldman equation, and considering only sodium and varies in different cells from as low as around −10 mil- potassium, gives a potential inside the membrane of −86 livolts in erythrocytes to as high as −90 millivolts in skel- millivolts, which is near the potassium potential shown etal muscle cells. in the figure. NEURON ACTION POTENTIAL Contribution of the Na+- K+ Pump. In Figure 5- 5C, the Na+- K+ pump is shown to provide an additional contribu- Nerve signals are transmitted by action potentials, which tion to the resting potential. This figure shows that con- are rapid changes in the membrane potential that spread tinuous pumping of three sodium ions to the outside oc- rapidly along the nerve fiber membrane. Each action poten- curs for each two potassium ions pumped to the inside of tial begins with a sudden change from the normal resting the membrane. The pumping of more sodium ions to the negative membrane potential to
