Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ions pumped to the inside of tial begins with a sudden change from the normal resting the membrane. The pumping of more sodium ions to the negative membrane potential to a positive potential and outside than the potassium ions being pumped to the in- ends with an almost equally rapid change back to the nega- side causes a continual loss of positive charges from inside tive potential. To conduct a nerve signal, the action potential the membrane, creating an additional degree of negativity moves along the nerve fiber until it comes to the fiber’s end. (about −4 millivolts additional) on the inside, beyond that The upper panel of Figure 5- 6 shows the changes which can be accounted for by diffusion alone. that occur at the membrane during the action potential, Therefore, as shown in Figure 5- 5C, the net mem- with the transfer of positive charges to the interior of the brane potential when all these factors are operative at the fiber at its onset and the return of positive charges to the same time is about −90 millivolts. However, additional exterior at its end. The lower panel shows graphically the ions, such as chloride, must also be considered in calcu- successive changes in membrane potential over a few lating the membrane potential. 10,000ths of a second, illustrating the explosive onset of In summary, the diffusion potentials alone caused the action potential and the almost equally rapid recovery. by potassium and sodium diffusion would give a mem- The successive stages of the action potential are as follows. brane potential of about −86 millivolts, with almost all of this being determined by potassium diffusion. An addi- Resting Stage. The resting stage is the resting membrane tional −4 millivolts is then contributed to the membrane potential before the action potential begins. The mem- potential by the continuously acting electrogenic Na+- brane is said to be “polarized” during this stage because K+ pump, and there is a contribution of chloride ions. As of the −70 millivolts negative membrane potential that is mentioned previously, the resting membrane potential present. 67 stlovilliM UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Depolarization Stage. At this time, the membrane sud- Activation Selectivity gate Na+ Na+ filter Na+ denly becomes permeable to sodium ions, allowing rapid diffusion of positively charged sodium ions to the interior of the axon. The normal polarized state of −70 millivolts is
