Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


filter Na+ denly becomes permeable to sodium ions, allowing rapid diffusion of positively charged sodium ions to the interior of the axon. The normal polarized state of −70 millivolts is immediately neutralized by the inflowing, positively charged sodium ions, with the potential rising rapidly in the positive direction—a process called depolarization. Inactivation In large nerve fibers, the great excess of positive sodium gate ions moving to the inside causes the membrane poten- Resting Activated Inactivated tial to actually overshoot beyond the zero level and to be- (−70 mV) (−70 to +35 mV) (+35 to −70 mV, delayed) come somewhat positive. In some smaller fibers, as well as in many central nervous system neurons, the potential merely approaches the zero level and does not overshoot to the positive state. Repolarization Stage. Within a few 10,000ths of a sec- ond after the membrane becomes highly permeable to K+ K+ sodium ions, the sodium channels begin to close, and the Resting Slow activation (−70 mV) (+35 to −70 mV) potassium channels open to a greater degree than normal. Inside Then, rapid diffusion of potassium ions to the exterior re- Figure 5- 7 Characteristics of the voltage-g ated sodium (top) and establishes the normal negative resting membrane poten- potassium (bottom) channels, showing successive activation and in- tial, which is called repolarization of the membrane. activation of the sodium channels and delayed activation of the po- To explain more fully the factors that cause both depo- tassium channels when the membrane potential is changed from the normal resting negative value to a positive value. larization and repolarization, we will describe the special characteristics of two other types of transport channels through the nerve membrane, the voltage- gated sodium change in the activation gate, flipping it all the way to and potassium channels. the open position. During this activated state, sodium ions can pour inward through the channel, increasing VOLTAGE- GATED SODIUM AND the sodium permeability of the membrane as much as POTASSIUM CHANNELS 500- to 5000-f old. The necessary factor in causing both depolarization and Inactivation of the Sodium Channel. The upper right repolarization of the nerve membrane during the action panel of Figure 5- 7 shows a third state of the sodium potential is the voltage- gated sodium channel. A voltage- channel. The same increase in voltage that opens the ac- gated potassium channel also plays an important role in tivation gate also closes
