Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the voltage- gated sodium channel. A voltage- channel. The same increase in voltage that opens the ac- gated potassium channel also plays an important role in tivation gate also closes the inactivation gate. The inacti- increasing the rapidity of repolarization of the membrane. vation gate, however, closes a few 10,000ths of a second These two voltage-g ated channels are in addition to the after the activation gate opens. That is, the conforma- Na+- K+ pump and the K+ leak channels. tional change that flips the inactivation gate to the closed state is a slower process than the conformational change Activation and Inactivation of the that opens the activation gate. Therefore, after the sodi- Voltage- Gated Sodium Channel um channel has remained open for a few 10,000ths of a The upper panel of Figure 5- 7 shows the voltage- gated second, the inactivation gate closes, and sodium ions no sodium channel in three separate states. This channel has longer can pour to the inside of the membrane. At this two gates—one near the outside of the channel called the point, the membrane potential begins to return toward activation gate, and another near the inside called the the resting membrane state, which is the repolarization inactivation gate. The upper left of the figure depicts the process. state of these two gates in the normal resting membrane Another important characteristic of the sodium chan- when the membrane potential is −70 millivolts. In this nel inactivation process is that the inactivation gate will state, the activation gate is closed, which prevents any not reopen until the membrane potential returns to or entry of sodium ions to the interior of the fiber through near the original resting membrane potential level. There- these sodium channels. fore, it is usually not possible for the sodium channels to open again without first repolarizing the nerve fiber. Activation of the Sodium Channel. When the mem- Voltage- Gated Potassium Channel and Its brane potential becomes less negative than during the Activation resting state, rising from −70 millivolts toward zero, it finally reaches a voltage—usually somewhere around The lower panel of Figure 5- 7 shows the voltage-g ated −55 millivolts—that causes a sudden conformational potassium channel in two states—during the resting state 68 Chapter 5 Membrane Potentials and Action Potentials Signal generator with Feedback Na+ channel command voltage amplifier 30 M pe om teb nr ta ian le Ampere 2 10
