Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


state 68 Chapter 5 Membrane Potentials and Action Potentials Signal generator with Feedback Na+ channel command voltage amplifier 30 M pe om teb nr ta ian le Ampere 2 10 0 0 Activation I n activation K+ channel amplifier meter –70 mV +10 mV –70 mV Membrane potential Reference electrode in fluid 0 1 2 3 Time (milliseconds) Voltage Current Figure 5- 9 Typical changes in conductance of sodium and potassium electrode electrode ion channels when the membrane potential is suddenly increased from the normal resting value of −70 millivolts to a positive value of +10 millivolts for 2 milliseconds. This figure shows that the sodium channels open (activate) and then close (inactivate) before the end of Axon the 2 milliseconds, whereas the potassium channels only open (acti- vate), and the rate of opening is much slower than that of the sodium channels. Figure 5- 8 Voltage clamp method for studying flow of ions through specific channels. by the voltage electrode, at the level set by the operator. When the membrane potential is suddenly increased by (left) and toward the end of the action potential (right). this voltage clamp from −70 millivolts to zero, the voltage- During the resting state, the gate of the potassium chan- gated sodium and potassium channels open, and sodium nel is closed, and potassium ions are prevented from and potassium ions begin to pour through the channels. To passing through this channel to the exterior. When the counterbalance the effect of these ion movements on the membrane potential rises from −70 millivolts toward desired setting of the intracellular voltage, electrical cur- zero, this voltage change causes a conformational open- rent is injected automatically through the current electrode ing of the gate and allows increased potassium diffusion of the voltage clamp to maintain the intracellular voltage outward through the channel. However, because of the at the required steady zero level. To achieve this level, the current injected must be equal to but of opposite polarity slight delay in opening of the potassium channels, they to the net current flow through the membrane channels. open, for the most part, at about the same time that the To measure how much current flow is occurring at each sodium channels are beginning to close because of inac- instant, the current electrode is connected to an ampere tivation. Thus, the decrease in sodium entry to the cell meter that records
