Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


channels are beginning to close because of inac- instant, the current electrode is connected to an ampere tivation. Thus, the decrease in sodium entry to the cell meter that records the current flow, as demonstrated in and the simultaneous increase in potassium exit from the Figure 5- 8. cell combine to speed the repolarization process, leading Finally, the investigator adjusts the concentrations to full recovery of the resting membrane potential within of the ions to other than normal levels both inside and another few 10,000ths of a second. outside the nerve fiber and repeats the study. This ex- periment can be performed easily when using large nerve fibers removed from some invertebrates, especially the The Voltage Clamp Method for Measuring the Effect giant squid axon, which in some cases is as large as 1 mil- of Voltage on Opening and Closing of Voltage-G ated limeter in diameter. When sodium is the only permeant Channels. The original research that led to quantitative ion in the solutions inside and outside the squid axon, the understanding of the sodium and potassium channels was voltage clamp measures current flow only through the so ingenious that it led to Nobel Prizes for the scientists sodium channels. When potassium is the only permeant responsible, Hodgkin and Huxley, in 1963. The essence of ion, current flow only through the potassium channels is these studies is shown in Figures. 5-8 and 5- 9. measured. Figure 5- 8 shows the voltage clamp method, which Another means for studying the flow of ions through is used to measure the flow of ions through the different an individual type of channel is to block one type of chan- channels. In using this apparatus, two electrodes are in- nel at a time. For example, the sodium channels can be serted into the nerve fiber. One of these electrodes is used blocked by a toxin called tetrodotoxin when it is applied to to measure the voltage of the membrane potential, and the the outside of the cell membrane where the sodium acti- other is used to conduct electrical current into or out of the vation gates are located. Conversely, tetraethylammonium nerve fiber. ion blocks the potassium channels when it is applied to the This apparatus is used in the following way. The inves- interior of the nerve fiber. tigator decides which voltage to establish inside the nerve Figure 5- 9 shows typical changes
