Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This apparatus is used in the following way. The inves- interior of the nerve fiber. tigator decides which voltage to establish inside the nerve Figure 5- 9 shows typical changes in conductance of fiber. The electronic portion of the apparatus is then adjust- the voltage- gated sodium and potassium channels when ed to the desired voltage, automatically injecting either pos- the membrane potential is suddenly changed through use itive or negative electricity through the current electrode at of the voltage clamp, from −70 millivolts to +10 millivolts whatever rate is required to hold the voltage, as measured and then, 2 milliseconds later, back to −70 millivolts. Note 69 ecnatcudnoC )2mc/ohmm( UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle the sudden opening of the sodium channels (the activa- within another fraction of a millisecond. The onset of tion stage) within a small fraction of a millisecond after the action potential also initiates voltage gating of the the membrane potential is increased to the positive value. potassium channels, causing them to begin opening However, during the next millisecond or so, the sodium more slowly, a fraction of a millisecond after the sodium channels automatically close (the inactivation stage). channels open. At the end of the action potential, the Note the opening (activation) of the potassium chan- return of the membrane potential to the negative state nels, which open less rapidly and reach their full open state causes the potassium channels to close back to their only after the sodium channels have almost completely original status but, again, only after an additional mil- closed. Furthermore, once the potassium channels open, they remain open for the entire duration of the positive lisecond or more delay. membrane potential and do not close again until after the The middle portion of Figure 5- 10 shows the ratio of membrane potential is decreased back to a negative value. sodium to potassium conductance at each instant dur- ing the action potential, and above this depiction is the SUMMARY OF EVENTS THAT CAUSE THE action potential itself. During the early portion of the ACTION POTENTIAL action potential, the ratio of sodium to potassium con- ductance increases more than 1000-f old. Therefore, far Figure 5-1 0 summarizes the sequential events that more sodium ions flow to the interior of the fiber than occur during and shortly after the action potential. The potassium ions to the exterior. This is what
