Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


events that more sodium ions flow to the interior of the fiber than occur during and shortly after the action potential. The potassium ions to the exterior. This is what causes the bottom of the figure shows the changes in membrane membrane potential to become positive at the action conductance for sodium and potassium ions. During potential onset. Then, the sodium channels begin to close, the resting state, before the action potential begins, the and the potassium channels begin to open; thus, the ratio conductance for potassium ions is 50 to 100 times as of conductance shifts far in favor of high potassium con- great as the conductance for sodium ions. This dispar- ductance but low sodium conductance. This shift allows ity is caused by much greater leakage of potassium ions for a very rapid loss of potassium ions to the exterior but than sodium ions through the leak channels. However, virtually zero flow of sodium ions to the interior. Conse- at the onset of the action potential, the sodium chan- quently, the action potential quickly returns to its baseline nels almost instantaneously become activated and allow level. up to a 5000- fold increase in sodium conductance. The inactivation process then closes the sodium channels Roles of Other Ions During the Action Potential Thus far, we have considered only the roles of sodium and potassium ions in generating the action potential. At least Overshoot two other types of ions must be considered, negative anions +40 +20 and calcium ions. Action potential Impermeant Negatively Charged Ions (Anions) Inside 100 0 –20 the Nerve Axon. Inside the axon are many negatively 10 –40 charged ions that cannot go through the membrane chan- –60 nels. They include the anions of protein molecules and 1 –80 of many organic phosphate compounds and sulfate com- 0.1 Positive pounds, among others. Because these ions cannot leave afterpotential the interior of the axon, any deficit of positive ions inside 0.01 the membrane leaves an excess of these impermeant nega- Ratio of conductances tive anions. Therefore, these impermeant negative ions are 0.001 100 responsible for the negative charge inside the fiber when there is a net deficit of positively charged potassium ions 10 and other positive ions. 1 K+ Calcium Ions. The membranes of almost all cells of the body have a calcium pump similar to the sodium pump, 0.1 and calcium serves along with (or instead of)
