Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


K+ Calcium Ions. The membranes of almost all cells of the body have a calcium pump similar to the sodium pump, 0.1 and calcium serves along with (or instead of) sodium in Na+ some cells to cause most of the action potential. Like the 0.01 sodium pump, the calcium pump transports calcium ions 0.005 from the interior to the exterior of the cell membrane (or 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 Milliseconds into the endoplasmic reticulum of the cell), creating a cal- cium ion gradient of about 10,000- fold. This process leaves Figure 5- 10 Changes in sodium and potassium conductance dur- an internal cell concentration of calcium ions of about 10−7 ing the course of the action potential. Sodium conductance increases molar, in contrast to an external concentration of about several thousand–fold during the early stages of the action potential, whereas potassium conductance increases only about 30- fold during 10−3 molar. the latter stages of the action potential and for a short period thereaf- In addition, there are voltage- gated calcium channels. ter. (These curves were constructed from theory presented in papers Because the calcium ion concentration is more than 10,000 by Hodgkin and Huxley but transposed from a squid axon to apply to times greater in the extracellular fluid than in the intracellular the membrane potentials of large mammalian nerve fibers.) fluid, there is a tremendous diffusion gradient and elec- 70 ecnatcudnoc +aN ecnatcudnoC ecnatcudnoc +K )2mc/ohmm( )Vm( laitnetop enarbmeM Chapter 5 Membrane Potentials and Action Potentials trochemical driving force for the passive flow of calcium rise in the membrane potential, thus opening still more ions into the cells. These channels are slightly permeable voltage-g ated sodium channels and allowing more stream- to sodium ions and calcium ions, but their permeability to ing of sodium ions to the interior of the fiber. This process calcium is about 1000- fold greater than to sodium under is a positive feedback cycle that, once the feedback is strong normal physiological conditions. When the channels open enough, continues until all the voltage-g ated sodium chan- in response to a stimulus that depolarizes the cell mem- brane, calcium ions flow to the interior of the cell. nels have become activated (opened). Then, within another A major function of the voltage- gated calcium ion fraction of a millisecond, the rising membrane potential channels is to contribute to the depolarizing phase on the causes closure of the
