Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


major function of the voltage- gated calcium ion fraction of a millisecond, the rising membrane potential channels is to contribute to the depolarizing phase on the causes closure of the sodium channels and opening of po- action potential in some cells. The gating of calcium chan- tassium channels, and the action potential soon terminates. nels, however, is relatively slow, requiring 10 to 20 times as long for activation as for the sodium channels. For this Initiation of the Action Potential Occurs Only After reason, they are often called slow channels, in contrast the Threshold Potential is Reached. An action poten- to the sodium channels, which are called fast channels. tial will not occur until the initial rise in membrane po- Therefore, the opening of calcium channels provides a tential is great enough to create the positive feedback de- more sustained depolarization, whereas the sodium chan- scribed in the preceding paragraph. This occurs when the nels play a key role in initiating action potentials. number of sodium ions entering the fiber is greater than Calcium channels are numerous in cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. In fact, in some types of smooth muscle, the number of potassium ions leaving the fiber. A sudden the fast sodium channels are hardly present; therefore, the rise in membrane potential of 15 to 30 millivolts is usually action potentials are caused almost entirely by the activa- required. Therefore, a sudden increase in the membrane tion of slow calcium channels. potential in a large nerve fiber, from −70 millivolts up to Increased Permeability of the Sodium Channels When about −55 millivolts, usually causes the explosive devel- There Is a Deficit of Calcium Ions. The concentration of opment of an action potential. This level of −55 millivolts calcium ions in the extracellular fluid also has a profound is said to be the threshold for stimulation. effect on the voltage level at which the sodium channels become activated. When there is a deficit of calcium ions, the sodium channels become activated (opened) by a small increase of the membrane potential from its normal, very PROPAGATION OF THE ACTION negative level. Therefore, the nerve fiber becomes highly POTENTIAL excitable, sometimes discharging repetitively without prov- ocation, rather than remaining in the resting state. In fact, In the preceding paragraphs, we discussed the action the calcium ion concentration needs to fall only 50% be- potential as though it occurs at one spot
