Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


resting state. In fact, In the preceding paragraphs, we discussed the action the calcium ion concentration needs to fall only 50% be- potential as though it occurs at one spot on the mem- low normal before spontaneous discharge occurs in some brane. However, an action potential elicited at any one peripheral nerves, often causing muscle “tetany.” Muscle point on an excitable membrane usually excites adjacent tetany is sometimes lethal because of tetanic contraction of portions of the membrane, resulting in propagation of the the respiratory muscles. action potential along the membrane. This mechanism is The probable way in which calcium ions affect the so- demonstrated in Figure 5- 11. dium channels is as follows. These ions appear to bind to Figure 5- 11A shows a normal resting nerve fiber, and the exterior surfaces of the sodium channel protein. The positive charges of these calcium ions, in turn, alter the Figure 5- 11B shows a nerve fiber that has been excited in electrical state of the sodium channel protein, thus altering its midportion, which suddenly develops increased perme- the voltage level required to open the sodium gate. ability to sodium. The arrows show a local circuit of cur- rent flow from the depolarized areas of the membrane to the adjacent resting membrane areas. That is, posi- INITIATION OF THE ACTION POTENTIAL tive electrical charges are carried by the inward-d iffusing sodium ions through the depolarized membrane and then Thus far, we have explained the changing sodium and for several millimeters in both directions along the core of potassium permeability of the membrane, as well as the the axon. These positive charges increase the voltage for a development of the action potential, but we have not distance of 1 to 3 millimeters inside the large myelinated explained what initiates the action potential. fiber to above the threshold voltage value for initiating an action potential. Therefore, the sodium channels in these A Positive-F eedback Cycle Opens the Sodium Chan- new areas immediately open, as shown in Figure 5- 11C nels. As long as the membrane of the nerve fiber remains and D, and the explosive action potential spreads. These undisturbed, no action potential occurs in the normal newly depolarized areas produce still more local circuits of nerve. However, if any event causes enough initial rise in current flow farther along the membrane, causing progres- the membrane potential from −70 millivolts toward the sively
