Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


local circuits of nerve. However, if any event causes enough initial rise in current flow farther along the membrane, causing progres- the membrane potential from −70 millivolts toward the sively more and more depolarization. Thus, the depolariza- zero level, the rising voltage will cause many voltage-g ated tion process travels along the entire length of the fiber. This sodium channels to begin opening. This occurrence allows transmission of the depolarization process along a nerve or for the rapid inflow of sodium ions, which causes a further muscle fiber is called a nerve or muscle impulse. 71 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Direction of Propagation. As demonstrated in Figure 5- repolarization. For a single action potential, this effect is 11, an excitable membrane has no single direction of prop- so minute that it cannot be measured. Indeed, 100,000 agation, but the action potential travels in all directions to 50 million impulses can be transmitted by large nerve away from the stimulus—even along all branches of a nerve fibers before the concentration differences reach the point fiber—until the entire membrane has become depolarized. that action potential conduction ceases. With time, how- ever, it becomes necessary to re- establish the sodium and All- or- Nothing Principle. Once an action potential has potassium membrane concentration differences, which is been elicited at any point on the membrane of a normal achieved by action of the Na+- K+ pump in the same way fiber, the depolarization process travels over the entire as described previously for the original establishment of membrane if conditions are right, but it does not travel at the resting potential. That is, sodium ions that have dif- all if conditions are not right. This principle is called the all- fused to the interior of the cell during the action poten- or- nothing principle, and it applies to all normal excitable tials and potassium ions that have diffused to the exterior tissues. Occasionally, the action potential reaches a point must be returned to their original state by the Na+- K+ on the membrane at which it does not generate sufficient pump. Because this pump requires energy for operation, voltage to stimulate the next area of the membrane. When this “recharging” of the nerve fiber is an active metabolic this situation occurs, the spread of depolarization stops. process, using energy derived from the adenosine tri- Therefore, for continued propagation of an
