Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


solution that contains the drug veratridine, This type of action potential occurs in heart muscle fibers, which activates sodium ion channels, or when the calcium where the plateau lasts for as long as 0.2 to 0.3 second and ion concentration decreases below a critical value, which causes contraction of heart muscle to last for this same increases the sodium permeability of the membrane. long period. The cause of the plateau is a combination of several fac- Re- Excitation Process Necessary for Spontaneous tors. First, in heart muscle, two types of channels contribute Rhythmicity. For spontaneous rhythmicity to occur, the to the depolarization process: (1) the usual voltage-a ctivated membrane—even in its natural state—must be permeable sodium channels, called fast channels; and (2) voltage- enough to sodium ions (or to calcium and sodium ions activated calcium- sodium channels (L-t ype calcium chan- through the slow calcium- sodium channels) to allow auto- nels), which are slow to open and therefore are called slow matic membrane depolarization. Thus, Figure 5- 14 shows channels. Opening of fast channels causes the spike portion that the resting membrane potential in the rhythmical con- of the action potential, whereas the prolonged opening of trol center of the heart is only −60 to −70 millivolts, which is the slow calcium- sodium channels mainly allows calcium not enough negative voltage to keep the sodium and calcium ions to enter the fiber, which is largely responsible for the channels totally closed. Therefore, the following sequence plateau portion of the action potential. occurs: (1) some sodium and calcium ions flow inward; (2) Another factor that may be partly responsible for the this activity increases the membrane voltage in the positive plateau is that the voltage- gated potassium channels are direction, which further increases membrane permeability; slower to open than usual, often not opening much until (3) still more ions flow inward; and (4) the permeability in- the end of the plateau. This factor delays the return of the creases more, and so on, until an action potential is gener- membrane potential toward its normal negative value ated. Then, at the end of the action potential, the membrane of −70 millivolts. The plateau ends when the calcium- repolarizes. After another delay of milliseconds or seconds, sodium channels close, and permeability to potassium spontaneous excitability causes depolarization again, and a ions increases. new action potential occurs spontaneously. This cycle con- tinues over and
