Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


milliseconds or seconds, sodium channels close, and permeability to potassium spontaneous excitability causes depolarization again, and a ions increases. new action potential occurs spontaneously. This cycle con- tinues over and over and causes self-i nduced rhythmical RHYTHMICITY OF SOME EXCITABLE excitation of the excitable tissue. TISSUES—REPETITIVE DISCHARGE Why does the membrane of the heart control center not depolarize immediately after it has become repolarized, Repetitive self- induced discharges occur normally in rather than delaying for nearly 1 second before the onset the heart, in most smooth muscle, and in many of the of the next action potential? The answer can be found by neurons of the central nervous system. These rhythmi- observing the curve labeled “potassium conductance” in cal discharges cause the following: (1) rhythmical beat Figure 5- 14. This curve shows that toward the end of of the heart; (2) rhythmical peristalsis of the intestines; each action potential, and continuing for a short period and (3) neuronal events such as the rhythmical control of thereafter, the membrane becomes more permeable to breathing. potassium ions. The increased outflow of potassium ions In addition, almost all other excitable tissues can dis- carries tremendous numbers of positive charges to the charge repetitively if the threshold for stimulation of the outside of the membrane, leaving considerably more neg- tissue cells is reduced to a low enough level. For example, ativity inside the fiber than would otherwise occur. This even large nerve fibers and skeletal muscle fibers, which continues for nearly 1 second after the preceding action normally are highly stable, discharge repetitively when they potential is over, thus drawing the membrane potential Rhythmical +60 Potassium action Plateau +60 conductance potentials Threshold +40 +40 +20 +20 0 0 –20 –20 –40 –40 –60 –60 –80 0 1 2 3 –100 Seconds Hyperpolarization 0 0.10.2 0.30.40.50.6 0.70.8 0.9 Figure 5- 14 Rhythmical action potentials (in millivolts) similar to Seconds those recorded in the rhythmical control center of the heart. Note Figure 5-1 3 Action potential (in millivolts) from a Purkinje fiber of their relationship to potassium conductance and to the state of hy- the heart, showing a plateau. perpolarization. 73 stlovilliM stlovilliM UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle nearer to the potassium Nernst potential. This state, called electrical insulator that decreases ion flow through the hyperpolarization, is also shown in Figure 5- 14. As long membrane about 5000-f old. At the juncture
