Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Nernst potential. This state, called electrical insulator that decreases ion flow through the hyperpolarization, is also shown in Figure 5- 14. As long membrane about 5000-f old. At the juncture between each as this state exists, self–re-e xcitation will not occur. How- two successive Schwann cells along the axon, a small unin- ever, the increased potassium conductance (and the state sulated area only 2 to 3 micrometers in length remains of hyperpolarization) gradually disappears, as shown after where ions still can flow with ease through the axon mem- each action potential is completed in the figure, thereby brane between the extracellular fluid and intracellular fluid again allowing the membrane potential to increase up to inside the axon. This area is called the node of Ranvier. the threshold for excitation. Then, suddenly, a new action potential results and the process occurs again and again. Saltatory Conduction in Myelinated Fibers from Node to Node. Even though almost no ions can flow through SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF SIGNAL the thick myelin sheaths of myelinated nerves, they can TRANSMISSION IN NERVE TRUNKS flow with ease through the nodes of Ranvier. Therefore, action potentials occur only at the nodes. Yet, the action potentials are conducted from node to node by saltatory Myelinated and Unmyelinated Nerve Fibers. Figure conduction, as shown in Figure 5- 17. That is, electrical 5- 15 shows a cross section of a typical small nerve, re- current flows through the surrounding extracellular fluid vealing many large nerve fibers that constitute most of the outside the myelin sheath, as well as through the axoplasm cross- sectional area. However, a more careful look reveals inside the axon from node to node, exciting successive many more small fibers lying between the large ones. The nodes one after another. Thus, the nerve impulse jumps large fibers are myelinated, and the small ones are unmy- along the fiber, which is the origin of the term saltatory. elinated. The average nerve trunk contains about twice as Saltatory conduction is of value for two reasons: many unmyelinated fibers as myelinated fibers. 1. First, by causing the depolarization process to jump Figure 5- 16 illustrates schematically the features of a long intervals along the axis of the nerve fiber, this typical myelinated fiber. The central core of the fiber is the mechanism increases the velocity of nerve transmis- axon, and the membrane of the axon is the membrane that sion in
