Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


myelinated fiber. The central core of the fiber is the mechanism increases the velocity of nerve transmis- axon, and the membrane of the axon is the membrane that sion in myelinated fibers as much as 5- to 50-f old. actually conducts the action potential. The axon is filled in its center with axoplasm, which is a viscid intracellular fluid. Surrounding the axon is a myelin sheath that is often much thicker than the axon itself. About once every 1 to 3 millime- ters along the length of the myelin sheath is a node of Ranvier. The myelin sheath is deposited around the axon by Schwann cells in the following manner. The membrane of a Schwann cell first envelops the axon. The Schwann cell Axon then rotates around the axon many times, laying down mul- tiple layers of Schwann cell membrane containing the lipid Myelin substance sphingomyelin. This substance is an excellent sheath Schwann cell cytoplasm Schwann cell nucleus Node of Ranvier A Unmyelinated axons Schwann cell nucleus Schwann cell cytoplasm B Figure 5- 16 Function of the Schwann cell to insulate nerve fibers. A, Wrapping of a Schwann cell membrane around a large axon to form the myelin sheath of the myelinated nerve fiber. B, Partial wrapping of the membrane and cytoplasm of a Schwann cell around multiple Figure 5- 15 Cross section of a small nerve trunk containing both unmyelinated nerve fibers (shown in cross section). (A, Modified from myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. Leeson TS, Leeson R: Histology. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1979.) 74 Chapter 5 Membrane Potentials and Action Potentials 2. Second, saltatory conduction conserves energy for action potentials: mechanical pressure to excite sensory the axon because only the nodes depolarize, allowing nerve endings in the skin, chemical neurotransmitters to perhaps 100 times less loss of ions than would other- transmit signals from one neuron to the next in the brain, wise be necessary, and therefore requiring much less and electrical current to transmit signals between succes- energy expenditure for re-e stablishing the sodium sive muscle cells in the heart and intestine. and potassium concentration differences across the membrane after a series of nerve impulses. Excitation of a Nerve Fiber by a Negatively Charged The excellent insulation afforded by the myelin mem- Metal Electrode. The usual means for exciting a nerve or brane and the 50-f old decrease in membrane capacitance muscle in the experimental laboratory is to apply
