Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


– – – + + + + + + + + + + + + + – – – Na+ Na+ Na+ channel Axoplasm Myelin sheath Node of Ranvier Figure 5- 17 Saltatory conduction along a myelinated axon. The flow of electrical current from node to node is illustrated by the arrows. 75 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Threshold for Excitation and Acute Local Potentials. resting membrane potential level. Then, within another A weak negative electrical stimulus may not be able to small fraction of a second, the inactivation gates of the excite a fiber. However, when the voltage of the stimu- channels open, and a new action potential can be initiated. lus is increased, there comes a point at which excitation The period during which a second action potential can- does take place. Figure 5-1 8 shows the effects of suc- not be elicited, even with a strong stimulus, is called the cessively applied stimuli of progressing strength. A weak absolute refractory period. This period for large myelin- stimulus at point A causes the membrane potential to ated nerve fibers is about 1/2500 second. Therefore, one change from −70 to −65 millivolts, but this change is can readily calculate that such a fiber can transmit a maxi- not sufficient for the automatic regenerative processes mum of about 2500 impulses per second. of the action potential to develop. At point B, the stimu- lus is greater, but the intensity is still not enough. The Inhibition of Excitability—Stabilizers and Local Anesthetics stimulus does, however, disturb the membrane potential locally for as long as 1 millisecond or more after both In contrast to the factors that increase nerve excitability, of these weak stimuli. These local potential changes are membrane- stabilizing factors can decrease excitability. For called acute local potentials and, when they fail to elicit example, a high extracellular fluid calcium ion concentration an action potential, they are called acute subthreshold decreases membrane permeability to sodium ions and potentials. simultaneously reduces excitability. Therefore, calcium ions At point C in Figure 5- 18, the stimulus is even stronger. are said to be what is called a stabilizer. Now, the local potential has barely reached the threshold Local Anesthetics. Among the most important sta- bilizers are the many substances used clinically as local level required to elicit an action potential, but this occurs anesthetics, including procaine and tetracaine. Most of
