Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the most important sta- bilizers are the many substances used clinically as local level required to elicit an action potential, but this occurs anesthetics, including procaine and tetracaine. Most of only after a short “latent period.” At point D, the stimulus is these agents act directly on the activation gates of the so- still stronger, the acute local potential is also stronger, and dium channels, making it much more difficult for these the action potential occurs after less of a latent period. gates to open and thereby reducing membrane excitabil- Thus, this figure shows that even a weak stimulus ity. When excitability has been reduced so low that the causes a local potential change at the membrane, but the ratio of action potential strength to excitability threshold intensity of the local potential must rise to a threshold (called the safety factor) is reduced below 1.0, nerve im- level before the action potential is set off. pulses fail to pass along the anesthetized nerves. REFRACTORY PERIOD AFTER AN ACTION POTENTIAL, DURING WHICH A NEW Bibliography STIMULUS CANNOT BE ELICITED Alberts B, Johnson A, Lewis J, et al: Molecular Biology of the Cell, 5th A new action potential cannot occur in an excitable fiber as ed. New York: Garland Science, 2008. Bennett DL, Clark AJ, Huang J, Waxman SG, Dib-H ajj SD. The Role long as the membrane is still depolarized from the preced- of Voltage- Gated Sodium Channels in Pain Signaling. Physiol Rev ing action potential. The reason for this restriction is that 99:1079- 1151, 2019. shortly after the action potential is initiated, the sodium Bentley M, Banker G. The cellular mechanisms that maintain neuronal channels (or calcium channels, or both) become inacti- polarity. Nat Rev Neurosci 17:611- 622, 2016. vated, and no amount of excitatory signal applied to these Blaesse P, Airaksinen MS, Rivera C, Kaila K: Cation-c hloride cotrans- porters and neuronal function. Neuron 61:820, 2009. channels at this point will open the inactivation gates. Dai S, Hall DD, Hell JW: Supramolecular assemblies and localized reg- The only condition that will allow them to reopen is for ulation of voltage- gated ion channels. Physiol Rev 89:411, 2009. the membrane potential to return to or near the original Debanne D, Campanac E, Bialowas A, et al: Axon physiology. Physiol Rev 91:555, 2011. Delmas P, Hao J, Rodat- Despoix L: Molecular mechanisms of mecha- (cid:31)40 notransduction in mammalian sensory neurons. Nat
