Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sensory coding in the retina and the inner ear. Physiol voltage- dependent ion channels in mammalian central neurons. Rev 98:2063-2 096, 2018. Physiol Rev 88:1407, 2008. Philips T, Rothstein JD. Oligodendroglia: metabolic supporters of neu- rons. J Clin Invest 127:3271-3 280, 2017. 77 UNIT II CHAPTER 6 Contraction of Skeletal Muscle About 40% of the body is skeletal muscle, and perhaps Note in Figure 6-1E that the myosin and actin fila- another 10% is smooth and cardiac muscle. Some of the ments partially interdigitate and thus cause the myofibrils same basic principles of contraction apply to all these to have alternate light and dark bands, as illustrated in muscle types. In this chapter, we mainly consider skel- Figure 6-2. The light bands contain only actin filaments etal muscle function; the specialized functions of smooth and are called I bands because they are isotropic to polar- muscle are discussed in Chapter 8, and cardiac muscle is ized light. The dark bands contain myosin filaments, as discussed in Chapter 9. well as the ends of the actin filaments, where they over- lap the myosin, and are called A bands because they are PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF anisotropic to polarized light. Note also the small projec- SKELETAL MUSCLE tions from the sides of the myosin filaments in Figure 6-1E and L. These projections are cross- bridges. It is the Figure 6-1 shows that skeletal muscles are composed of interaction between these cross-b ridges and the actin fila- numerous fibers ranging from 10 to 80 micrometers in ments that causes contraction (Video 6- 1). diameter. Each of these fibers is made up of successively Figure 6-1E also shows that the ends of the actin smaller subunits, also shown in Figure 6-1, and described filaments are attached to a Z disk. From this disk, these in subsequent paragraphs. filaments extend in both directions to interdigitate with In most skeletal muscles, each fiber extends the entire the myosin filaments. The Z disk, which is composed of length of the muscle. Except for about 2% of the fibers, filamentous proteins different from the actin and myo- each fiber is usually innervated by only one nerve ending, sin filaments, passes crosswise across the myofibril and located near the middle of the fiber. also crosswise from myofibril to myofibril, attaching the myofibrils to one another all the way across the muscle The Sarcolemma Is a Thin Membrane Enclosing a fiber.
