Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the fiber. also crosswise from myofibril to myofibril, attaching the myofibrils to one another all the way across the muscle The Sarcolemma Is a Thin Membrane Enclosing a fiber. Therefore, the entire muscle fiber has light and dark Skeletal Muscle Fiber. The sarcolemma consists of a bands, as do the individual myofibrils. These bands give true cell membrane, called the plasma membrane, and skeletal and cardiac muscle their striated appearance. an outer coat made up of a thin layer of polysaccharide The portion of the myofibril (or of the whole muscle material that contains numerous thin collagen fibrils. At fiber) that lies between two successive Z disks is called a each end of the muscle fiber, this surface layer of the sar- sarcomere. When the muscle fiber is contracted, as shown colemma fuses with a tendon fiber. The tendon fibers, in at the bottom of Figure 6-5, the length of the sarcomere turn, collect into bundles to form the muscle tendons that is about 2 micrometers. At this length, the actin filaments then connect the muscles to the bones. completely overlap the myosin filaments, and the tips of the actin filaments are just beginning to overlap one Myofibrils Are Composed of Actin and Myosin another. As discussed later, at this length, the muscle is Filaments. Each muscle fiber contains several hun- capable of generating its greatest force of contraction. dred to several thousand myofibrils, which are illus- trated in the cross- sectional view of Figure 6-1C. Each Titin Filamentous Molecules Keep the Myosin and myofibril (Figure 6-1D and E) is composed of about Actin Filaments in Place. The side-by-side relationship 1500 adjacent myosin filaments and 3000 actin fila- between the myosin and actin filaments is maintained ments, which are large polymerized protein molecules by a large number of filamentous molecules of a protein that are responsible for the muscle contraction. These called titin (Figure 6-3). Each titin molecule has a mo- filaments can be seen in longitudinal view in the elec- lecular weight of about 3 million, which makes it one of tron micrograph of Figure 6-2 and are represented the largest protein molecules in the body. Also, because it diagrammatically in Figure 6-1E through L. The thick is filamentous, it is very springy. These springy titin mol- filaments in the diagrams are myosin, and the thin fila- ecules act as a framework that holds the myosin and ac-
