Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


filamentous, it is very springy. These springy titin mol- filaments in the diagrams are myosin, and the thin fila- ecules act as a framework that holds the myosin and ac- ments are actin. tin filaments in place so that the contractile machinery of 79 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle SKELETAL MUSCLE B Muscle fasciculus A Muscle C Muscle fiber Z disk A I band band Myofibril Z A I disk band band D G-Actin molecules J H zone H zone M line F-Actin filament Z Sarcomere Z K E H L Myofilaments Myosin filament Myosin molecule M N Tail Hinge Head F G H I Figure 6-1 A–E, Organization of skeletal muscle, from the gross to the molecular level. F–I, Cross sections at the levels indicated. 80 Chapter 6 Contraction of Skeletal Muscle Figure 6-2 Electron micrograph of muscle myofibrils showing the detailed organization of actin and myosin filaments. Note the mito- Figure 6-4 Sarcoplasmic reticulum in the spaces between the myofi- chondria lying between the myofibrils. (From Fawcett DW: The Cell. brils, showing a longitudinal system paralleling the myofibrils. Also Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1981.) shown in cross section are T tubules (arrows) that lead to the exterior of the fiber membrane and are important for conducting the electri- Myosin (thick filament) M line Titin cal signal into the center of the muscle fiber. (From Fawcett DW: The Cell. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1981.) mic reticulum. This reticulum has a special organization that is extremely important in regulating calcium stor- age, release, reuptake and therefore muscle contraction, as discussed in Chapter 7. The rapidly contracting types of muscle fibers have especially extensive sarcoplasmic Actin (thin filament) Z disk reticula. Figure 6-3 Organization of proteins in a sarcomere. Each titin mol- ecule extends from the Z disk to the M line. Part of the titin molecule is closely associated with the myosin thick filament, whereas the rest GENERAL MECHANISM OF MUSCLE of the molecule is springy and changes length as the sarcomere con- CONTRACTION tracts and relaxes. The initiation and execution of muscle contraction occur the sarcomere will work. One end of the titin molecule in the following sequential steps. is elastic and is attached to the Z disk, acting as a spring 1. An action potential travels along a motor nerve to and changing length as the sarcomere contracts and re- its endings on muscle fibers. laxes.
