Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


disk, acting as a spring 1. An action potential travels along a motor nerve to and changing length as the sarcomere contracts and re- its endings on muscle fibers. laxes. The other part of the titin molecule tethers it to the 2. At each ending, the nerve secretes a small amount myosin thick filament. The titin molecule may also act as of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. a template for the initial formation of portions of the con- 3. Acetylcholine acts on a local area of the muscle tractile filaments of the sarcomere, especially the myosin fiber membrane to open acetylcholine-g ated cation filaments. channels through protein molecules floating in the membrane. Sarcoplasm Is the Intracellular Fluid Between 4. The opening of acetylcholine- gated channels al- Myofibrils. Many myofibrils are suspended side by side in lows large quantities of sodium ions to diffuse to each muscle fiber. The spaces between the myofibrils are the interior of the muscle fiber membrane. This ac- filled with intracellular fluid called sarcoplasm, contain- tion causes a local depolarization that in turn leads ing large quantities of potassium, magnesium, and phos- to the opening of voltage-g ated sodium channels, phate, plus multiple protein enzymes. Also present are tre- which initiates an action potential at the membrane. mendous numbers of mitochondria that lie parallel to the 5. The action potential travels along the muscle fiber myofibrils. These mitochondria supply the contracting my- membrane in the same way that action potentials ofibrils with large amounts of energy in the form of adeno- travel along nerve fiber membranes. sine triphosphate (ATP) formed by the mitochondria. 6. The action potential depolarizes the muscle mem- brane, and much of the action potential electricity Sarcoplasmic Reticulum Is a Specialized Endoplasmic flows through the center of the muscle fiber. Here Reticulum of Skeletal Muscle. Also, in the sarcoplasm it causes the sarcoplasmic reticulum to release large surrounding the myofibrils of each muscle fiber, is an quantities of calcium ions that have been stored extensive reticulum (Figure 6-4), called the sarcoplas- within this reticulum. 81 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle I A I Head Z Z Tail Relaxed Two heavy chains I A I A Light chains Z Z Actin filaments Contracted Figure 6-5 Relaxed and contracted states of a myofibril showing (top) sliding of the actin filaments (pink) into the spaces between Cross-bridges Hinges Body the myosin filaments (red) and
