Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Contracted Figure 6-5 Relaxed and contracted states of a myofibril showing (top) sliding of the actin filaments (pink) into the spaces between Cross-bridges Hinges Body the myosin filaments (red) and (bottom) pulling of the Z membranes B Myosin filament toward each other. Figure 6-6 A, Myosin molecule. B, Combination of many myosin molecules to form a myosin filament. Also shown are thousands of 7. The calcium ions initiate attractive forces between myosin cross- bridges and interaction between the heads of the cross- the actin and myosin filaments, causing them to bridges with adjacent actin filaments. slide alongside each other, which is the contractile process. calcium ions, in turn, activate the forces between the myo- 8. After a fraction of a second, the calcium ions are sin and actin filaments, and contraction begins. However, pumped back into the sarcoplasmic reticulum by a energy is needed for the contractile process to proceed. Ca2+ membrane pump and remain stored in the re- This energy comes from high- energy bonds in the ATP ticulum until a new muscle action potential comes molecule, which is degraded to adenosine diphosphate along; this removal of calcium ions from the myofi- (ADP) to liberate the energy. In the next few sections, we brils causes the muscle contraction to cease. describe these molecular processes of contraction. We now describe the molecular machinery of the mus- Molecular Characteristics of the cle contractile process. Contractile Filaments Myosin Filaments Are Composed of Multiple Myosin MOLECULAR MECHANISM OF MUSCLE Molecules. Each of the myosin molecules, shown in CONTRACTION Figure 6-6A, has a molecular weight of about 480,000. Figure 6-6B shows the organization of many molecules Muscle Contraction Occurs by a Sliding Filament to form a myosin filament, as well as interaction of this Mechanism. Figure 6-5 demonstrates the basic mecha- filament on one side with the ends of two actin filaments. nism of muscle contraction. It shows the relaxed state of The myosin molecule (see Figure 6-6A) is composed a sarcomere (top) and the contracted state (bottom). In of six polypeptide chains—two heavy chains, each with a the relaxed state, the ends of the actin filaments extending molecular weight of about 200,000; and four light chains, from two successive Z disks barely overlap one another. with molecular weights of about 20,000 each. The two Conversely, in the contracted state, these actin filaments heavy chains wrap spirally around each other to form a have
