Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


one another. with molecular weights of about 20,000 each. The two Conversely, in the contracted state, these actin filaments heavy chains wrap spirally around each other to form a have been pulled inward among the myosin filaments, so double helix, which is called the tail of the myosin mol- their ends overlap one another to their maximum extent. ecule. One end of each of these chains is folded bilaterally Also, the Z disks have been pulled by the actin filaments into a globular polypeptide structure called a myosin head. up to the ends of the myosin filaments. Thus, muscle con- Thus, there are two free heads at one end of the double- traction occurs by a sliding filament mechanism. helix myosin molecule. The four light chains are also part of But what causes the actin filaments to slide inward the myosin head, two to each head. These light chains help among the myosin filaments? This action is caused by control the function of the head during muscle contraction. forces generated by interaction of the cross- bridges from The myosin filament is made up of 200 or more individ- the myosin filaments with the actin filaments. Under ual myosin molecules. The central portion of one of these resting conditions, these forces are inactive, but when an filaments is shown in Figure 6-6B, displaying the tails of action potential travels along the muscle fiber, this causes the myosin molecules bundled together to form the body the sarcoplasmic reticulum to release large quantities of of the filament, while many heads of the molecules hang calcium ions that rapidly surround the myofibrils. The outward to the sides of the body. Also, part of the body 82 Chapter 6 Contraction of Skeletal Muscle Active sites Troponin complex Each actin filament is about 1 micrometer long. The bases of the actin filaments are inserted strongly into the Z disks; the ends of the filaments protrude in both direc- tions to lie in the spaces between the myosin molecules, as shown in Figure 6-5. F-actin Tropomyosin Figure 6-7 Actin filament composed of two helical strands of F- actin Tropomyosin Molecules. The actin filament also con- molecules and two strands of tropomyosin molecules that fit in the tains another protein, tropomyosin. Each molecule of tro- grooves between the actin strands. Attached to one end of each tro- pomyosin has a molecular weight of 70,000 and a length pomyosin
