Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


another protein, tropomyosin. Each molecule of tro- grooves between the actin strands. Attached to one end of each tro- pomyosin has a molecular weight of 70,000 and a length pomyosin molecule is a troponin complex that initiates contraction. of 40 nanometers. These molecules are wrapped spirally around the sides of the F-a ctin helix. In the resting state, of each myosin molecule hangs to the side along with the the tropomyosin molecules lie on top of the active sites of head, thus providing an arm that extends the head out- the actin strands so that attraction cannot occur between ward from the body, as shown in the figure. The protrud- the actin and myosin filaments to cause contraction. Con- ing arms and heads together are called cross- bridges. Each traction occurs only when an appropriate signal causes a cross-b ridge is flexible at two points called hinges—one conformation change in tropomyosin that “uncovers” ac- where the arm leaves the body of the myosin filament and tive sites on the actin molecule and initiates contraction, the other where the head attaches to the arm. The hinged as explained later. arms allow the heads either to be extended far outward from the body of the myosin filament or brought close to Troponin and Its Role in Muscle Contraction. Attached the body. The hinged heads, in turn, participate in the con- intermittently along the sides of the tropomyosin mol- traction process, as discussed in the following sections. ecules are additional protein molecules called troponin. The total length of each myosin filament is uniform, These protein molecules are actually complexes of three almost exactly 1.6 micrometers. Note, however, that there loosely bound protein subunits, each of which plays a are no cross-b ridge heads in the center of the myosin fila- specific role in controlling muscle contraction. One of the ment for a distance of about 0.2 micrometer because the subunits (troponin I) has a strong affinity for actin, an- hinged arms extend away from the center. other (troponin T) for tropomyosin, and a third (troponin Now, to complete the picture, the myosin filament is C) for calcium ions. This complex is believed to attach the twisted so that each successive pair of cross-b ridges is axi- tropomyosin to the actin. The strong affinity of the tro- ally displaced from the previous pair by 120 degrees. This ponin for calcium ions is believed to
