Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ridges is axi- tropomyosin to the actin. The strong affinity of the tro- ally displaced from the previous pair by 120 degrees. This ponin for calcium ions is believed to initiate the contrac- twisting ensures that the cross-b ridges extend in all direc- tion process, as explained in the next section. tions around the filament. Interaction of One Myosin Filament, Two Actin Filaments, and Calcium Ions to Adenosine Triphosphatase Activity of the Myosin Cause Contraction Head. Another feature of the myosin head that is es- sential for muscle contraction is that it functions as an Inhibition of the Actin Filament by the Troponin- adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) enzyme. As explained Tropomyosin Complex. A pure actin filament without later, this property allows the head to cleave ATP and use the presence of the troponin- tropomyosin complex (but the energy derived from the ATP’s high-e nergy phosphate in the presence of magnesium ions and ATP) binds in- bond to energize the contraction process. stantly and strongly with the heads of the myosin mol- ecules. Then, if the troponin- tropomyosin complex is Actin Filaments Are Composed of Actin, T ropomyosin, added to the actin filament, the binding between myosin and Troponin. The backbone of the actin filament is a and actin does not take place. Therefore, it is believed double- stranded F- actin protein molecule, represented that the active sites on the normal actin filament of the by the two lighter-c olored strands in Figure 6-7. The two relaxed muscle are inhibited or physically covered by the strands are wound in a helix in the same manner as the troponin- tropomyosin complex. Consequently, the sites myosin molecule. cannot attach to the heads of the myosin filaments to Each strand of the double F-a ctin helix is composed cause contraction. Before contraction can take place, the of polymerized G- actin molecules, each having a molecu- inhibitory effect of the troponin- tropomyosin complex lar weight of about 42,000. Attached to each one of the must itself be inhibited. G- actin molecules is one molecule of ADP. These ADP molecules are believed to be the active sites on the actin Activation of the Actin Filament by Calcium Ions. filaments with which the cross- bridges of the myosin fila- In the presence of large amounts of calcium ions, the ments interact to cause muscle contraction. The active inhibitory effect of the troponin- tropomyosin on the sites on the
