Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fila- In the presence of large amounts of calcium ions, the ments interact to cause muscle contraction. The active inhibitory effect of the troponin- tropomyosin on the sites on the two F- actin strands of the double helix are actin filaments is itself inhibited. The mechanism of staggered, giving one active site on the overall actin fila- this inhibition is not known, but one suggestion has ment about every 2.7 nanometers. been presented. When calcium ions combine with 83 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Movement Active sites Actin filament Each of the cross- bridges is believed to operate inde- pendently of all the others, with each attaching and pulling in a continuous repeated cycle. Therefore, the Power greater the number of cross- bridges in contact with the Hinges stroke actin filament at any given time, the greater the force of contraction. ATP Is the Energy Source for Contraction—Chemical Myosin filament Events in the Motion of the Myosin Heads. When a muscle contracts, work is performed, and energy is re- Figure 6-8 The walk- along mechanism for contraction of the muscle. quired. Large amounts of ATP are cleaved to form ADP during the contraction process, and the more work per- troponin C, each molecule of which can bind strongly formed by the muscle, the more ATP that is cleaved; this with up to four calcium ions, the troponin complex phenomenon is called the Fenn effect. The following se- then undergoes a conformational change that in some quence of events is believed to be the means whereby this way tugs on the tropomyosin molecule and moves it effect occurs: deeper into the groove between the two actin strands. 1. Before contraction begins, the heads of the cross- This action uncovers the active sites of the actin, thus bridges bind with ATP. The ATPase activity of the allowing these active sites to attract the myosin cross- myosin head immediately cleaves the ATP but bridge heads and allow contraction to proceed. Al- leaves the cleavage products, ADP plus phosphate though this mechanism is hypothetical, it emphasizes ion, bound to the head. In this state, the conforma- that the normal relationship between the troponin- tion of the head is such that it extends perpendic- tropomyosin complex and actin is altered by calcium ularly toward the actin filament but is not yet at- ions, producing a new condition that leads to contrac-
