Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


it extends perpendic- tropomyosin complex and actin is altered by calcium ularly toward the actin filament but is not yet at- ions, producing a new condition that leads to contrac- tached to the actin. tion. 2. When the troponin- tropomyosin complex binds with calcium ions, active sites on the actin filament Interaction of the Activated Actin Filament and the are uncovered, and the myosin heads then bind Myosin Cross- Bridges—The Walk-A long Theory of with these sites, as shown in Figure 6-8. Contraction. As soon as the actin filament is activated 3. The bond between the head of the cross- bridge and by the calcium ions, the heads of the cross-b ridges from the active site of the actin filament causes a confor- the myosin filaments become attracted to the active sites mational change in the head, prompting the head to of the actin filament and initiate contraction. Although tilt toward the arm of the cross-b ridge and provid- the precise manner in which this interaction between ing the power stroke for pulling the actin filament. the cross-b ridges and the actin causes contraction is still The energy that activates the power stroke is the partly theoretical, one hypothesis for which considerable energy already stored, like a cocked spring, by the evidence exists is the walk-a long (or ratchet) theory of conformational change that occurred in the head contraction. when the ATP molecule was cleaved earlier. Figure 6-8 demonstrates this postulated walk- along 4. Once the head of the cross- bridge tilts, release of mechanism for contraction. The figure shows the heads the ADP and phosphate ion that were previously of two cross- bridges attaching to and disengaging from attached to the head is allowed. At the site of re- active sites of an actin filament. When a head attaches lease of the ADP, a new molecule of ATP binds. This to an active site, this attachment simultaneously causes binding of new ATP causes detachment of the head profound changes in the intramolecular forces between from the actin. the head and arm of its cross- bridge. The new align- 5. After the head has detached from the actin, the ment of forces causes the head to tilt toward the arm new molecule of ATP is cleaved to begin the next and to drag the actin filament along with it. This tilt of cycle, leading to a new power stroke. That
