Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


new molecule of ATP is cleaved to begin the next and to drag the actin filament along with it. This tilt of cycle, leading to a new power stroke. That is, the the head is called the power stroke. Immediately after energy again cocks the head back to its perpen- tilting, the head then automatically breaks away from dicular condition, ready to begin the new power the active site. Next, the head returns to its extended stroke cycle. direction. In this position, it combines with a new 6. When the cocked head (with its stored energy de- active site farther down along the actin filament; the rived from the cleaved ATP) binds with a new active head then tilts again to cause a new power stroke, and site on the actin filament, it becomes uncocked and the actin filament moves another step. Thus, the heads once again provides a new power stroke. of the cross- bridges bend back and forth and, step by Thus, the process proceeds again and again until the step, walk along the actin filament, pulling the ends of actin filaments pull the Z membrane up against the ends two successive actin filaments toward the center of the of the myosin filaments or until the load on the muscle myosin filament. becomes too great for further pulling to occur. 84 Chapter 6 Contraction of Skeletal Muscle D Normal range of contraction B C C 100 B Tension during A A contraction Increase in tension during contraction 50 Tension before contraction D 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 1/2 Normal 2× Length of sarcomere (micrometers) normal normal Figure 6-9 Length- tension diagram for a single fully contracted sar- Length comere showing the maximum strength of contraction when the sar- Figure 6-10 Relationship of muscle length to tension in the muscle comere is 2.0 to 2.2 micrometers in length. At the upper right are both before and during muscle contraction. the relative positions of the actin and myosin filaments at different sarcomere lengths from point A to point D. (Modified from Gordon AM, Huxley AF, Julian FJ: The length-t ension diagram of single verte- has a large amount of connective tissue in it; in addition, brate striated muscle fibers. J Physiol 171:28P, 1964.) the sarcomeres in different parts of the muscle do not always contract the same amount. Therefore, the curve Amount of Actin and Myosin Filament has
