Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fibers. J Physiol 171:28P, 1964.) the sarcomeres in different parts of the muscle do not always contract the same amount. Therefore, the curve Amount of Actin and Myosin Filament has somewhat different dimensions from those shown Overlap Determines Tension Developed for the individual muscle fiber, but it exhibits the same by the Contracting Muscle general form for the slope in the normal range of contrac- Figure 6-9 shows the effect of sarcomere length and the tion, as shown in Figure 6-10. amount of myosin-a ctin filament overlap on the active ten- Note in Figure 6-10 that when the muscle is at its sion developed by a contracting muscle fiber. To the right normal resting length, which is at a sarcomere length of are different degrees of overlap of the myosin and actin about 2 micrometers, it contracts on activation with the filaments at different sarcomere lengths. At point D on the approximate maximum force of contraction. However, diagram, the actin filament has pulled all the way out to the increase in tension that occurs during contraction, the end of the myosin filament, with no actin-m yosin over- called active tension, decreases as the muscle is stretched lap. At this point, the tension developed by the activated beyond its normal length—that is, to a sarcomere length muscle is zero. Then, as the sarcomere shortens, and the greater than about 2.2 micrometers. This phenomenon is actin filament begins to overlap the myosin filament, the demonstrated by the decreased length of the arrow in the tension increases progressively until the sarcomere length figure at greater than normal muscle length. decreases to about 2.2 micrometers. At this point, the actin Relation of Velocity of Contraction to Load filament has already overlapped all the cross-b ridges of the myosin filament but has not yet reached the center of the A skeletal muscle contracts rapidly when it contracts myosin filament. With further shortening, the sarcomere against no load to a state of full contraction in about 0.1 maintains full tension until point B is reached, at a sar- second for the average muscle. When loads are applied, the comere length of about 2 micrometers. At this point, the velocity of contraction decreases progressively as the load ends of the two actin filaments begin to overlap each other increases, as shown in Figure 6-11. When the load has been increased to equal the maximum force that the
