Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ends of the two actin filaments begin to overlap each other increases, as shown in Figure 6-11. When the load has been increased to equal the maximum force that the muscle in addition to overlapping the myosin filaments. As the can exert, the velocity of contraction becomes zero, and no sarcomere length decreases from 2 micrometers to about contraction results, despite activation of the muscle fiber. 1.65 micrometers at point A, the strength of contraction This decreasing velocity of contraction with load occurs decreases rapidly. At this point, the two Z disks of the sar- because a load on a contracting muscle is a reverse force comere abut the ends of the myosin filaments. Then, as that opposes the contractile force caused by muscle con- contraction proceeds to still shorter sarcomere lengths, the traction. Therefore, the net force that is available to cause ends of the myosin filaments are crumpled and, as shown in the velocity of shortening is correspondingly reduced. the figure, the strength of contraction approaches zero, but the sarcomere has now contracted to its shortest length. ENERGETICS OF MUSCLE CONTRACTION Effect of Muscle Length on Force of Contraction in the Whole Intact Muscle. The top curve of Figure Work Output During Muscle Contraction 6-10 is similar to that in Figure 6-9, but the curve in Figure 6-10 depicts tension of the intact whole muscle When a muscle contracts against a load, it performs work. rather than of a single muscle fiber. The whole muscle To perform work means that energy is transferred from 85 depoleved noisneT )tnecrep( elcsum fo noisneT UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle ADP to reconstitute the ATP. However, the total amount 30 of phosphocreatine in the muscle fiber is also small, only about 5 times as great as the ATP. Therefore, the com- bined energy of both the stored ATP and the phosphocre- 20 atine in the muscle is capable of causing maximal muscle contraction for only 5 to 8 seconds. The second important source of energy, which is 10 used to reconstitute both ATP and phosphocreatine, is a process called glycolysis—the breakdown of glycogen previously stored in the muscle cells. Rapid enzymatic 0 breakdown of the glycogen to pyruvic acid and lactic 0 1 2 3 4 acid liberates energy that is used to convert ADP to ATP; Load-opposing contraction (kg) the ATP can then be used directly to
