Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acid and lactic 0 1 2 3 4 acid liberates energy that is used to convert ADP to ATP; Load-opposing contraction (kg) the ATP can then be used directly to energize additional Figure 6-11 Relationship of load to velocity of contraction in a skel- muscle contraction and also to re- form the stores of etal muscle with a cross section of 1 square centimeter and a length phosphocreatine. of 8 centimeters. The importance of this glycolysis mechanism is twofold. First, glycolytic reactions can occur even in the absence of the muscle to the external load to lift an object to a greater oxygen, so muscle contraction can be sustained for many height or to overcome resistance to movement. seconds and sometimes up to more than 1 minute, even In mathematical terms, work is defined by the follow- when oxygen delivery from the blood is not available. Sec- ing equation: ond, the rate of ATP formation by glycolysis is about 2.5 W=L×D times as rapid as ATP formation in response to cellular foodstuffs reacting with oxygen. However, so many end in which W is the work output, L is the load, and D is products of glycolysis accumulate in the muscle cells that the distance of movement against the load. The energy glycolysis also loses its capability to sustain maximum required to perform the work is derived from the chemi- muscle contraction after about 1 minute. cal reactions in the muscle cells during contraction, as The third and final source of energy is oxidative metab- described in the following sections. olism, which means combining oxygen with the end prod- ucts of glycolysis and with various other cellular foodstuffs Three Sources of Energy for Muscle to liberate ATP. More than 95% of all energy used by the Contraction muscles for sustained long- term contraction is derived Most of the energy required for muscle contraction is from oxidative metabolism. The foodstuffs that are con- used to trigger the walk- along mechanism whereby the sumed are carbohydrates, fats, and protein. For extremely cross- bridges pull the actin filaments, but small amounts long- term maximal muscle activity—over a period of are required for the following: (1) pumping calcium ions many hours—the greatest proportion of energy comes from the sarcoplasm into the sarcoplasmic reticulum from fats but, for periods of 2 to 4 hours, as much as one after the contraction is over; and (2) pumping
