Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


comes from the sarcoplasm into the sarcoplasmic reticulum from fats but, for periods of 2 to 4 hours, as much as one after the contraction is over; and (2) pumping sodium and half of the energy can come from stored carbohydrates. potassium ions through the muscle fiber membrane to The detailed mechanisms of these energetic processes maintain an appropriate ionic environment for the propa- are discussed in Chapters 68 through 73. In addition, the gation of muscle fiber action potentials. importance of the different mechanisms of energy release The concentration of ATP in the muscle fiber, about during performance of different sports is discussed in 4 millimolar, is sufficient to maintain full contraction Chapter 85. for only 1 to 2 seconds at most. The ATP is split to form ADP, which transfers energy from the ATP molecule to Efficiency of Muscle Contraction. The efficiency of an the contracting machinery of the muscle fiber. Then, as engine or a motor is calculated as the percentage of energy input that is converted into work instead of heat. The per- described in Chapter 2, the ADP is rephosphorylated to centage of the input energy to muscle (the chemical energy form new ATP within another fraction of a second, which in nutrients) that can be converted into work, even under allows the muscle to continue its contraction. There are the best conditions, is less than 25%, with the remainder three sources of the energy for this rephosphorylation. becoming heat. The reason for this low efficiency is that The first source of energy that is used to reconstitute about one-half of the energy in foodstuffs is lost during the the ATP is the substance phosphocreatine, which carries a formation of ATP and, even then, only 40% to 45% of the high-e nergy phosphate bond similar to the bonds of ATP. energy in ATP itself can later be converted into work. The high- energy phosphate bond of phosphocreatine has Maximum efficiency can be realized only when the a slightly higher amount of free energy than that of each muscle contracts at a moderate velocity. If the muscle con- ATP bond, as discussed in more detail in Chapters 68 and tracts slowly or without any movement, small amounts of 73. Therefore, phosphocreatine is instantly cleaved, and its maintenance heat are released during contraction, even though little or no work is performed, thereby decreasing released energy causes bonding
