Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


amounts of 73. Therefore, phosphocreatine is instantly cleaved, and its maintenance heat are released during contraction, even though little or no work is performed, thereby decreasing released energy causes bonding of a new phosphate ion to 86 )ces/mc( noitcartnoc fo yticoleV Chapter 6 Contraction of Skeletal Muscle the conversion efficiency to as little as zero. Conversely, if Isotonic contraction contraction is too rapid, much of the energy is used to over- come viscous friction within the muscle itself, and this too reduces the efficiency of contraction. Ordinarily, maximum efficiency occurs when the velocity of contraction is about Muscle 30% of maximum. Contracts CHARACTERISTICS OF WHOLE MUSCLE CONTRACTION Relaxes Many features of muscle contraction can be demonstrated Weight by eliciting single muscle twitches. This can be accom- plished by electrical excitation of the nerve to a muscle or by passing a short electrical stimulus through the muscle Weight itself, giving rise to a single sudden contraction lasting a fraction of a second. Isometric contraction Isometric Contractions Do Not Shorten Muscle, Whereas Isotonic Contractions Shorten Muscle at a Constant Tension. Muscle contraction is said to be iso- Muscle metric when the muscle does not shorten during contrac- Contracts tion and isotonic when it shortens but the tension on the muscle remains constant throughout the contraction. Systems for recording the two types of muscle contrac- tion are shown in Figure 6-12. In the isometric system, the muscle contracts against Relaxes a force transducer without decreasing the muscle length, as shown in the bottom panel of Figure 6-12. In the isotonic system, the muscle shortens against a fixed load, which is illustrated in the top panel of the Low tension High tension figure, showing a muscle lifting a weight. The char- acteristics of isotonic contraction depend on the load Heavy Heavy against which the muscle contracts, as well as the iner- weight weight tia of the load. However, the isometric system records changes in force of muscle contraction independently of load inertia. Therefore, the isometric system is often Figure 6-12 Isotonic and isometric systems for recording muscle con- used when comparing the functional characteristics of tractions. Isotonic contraction occurs when the force of the muscle con- traction is greater than the load, and the tension on the muscle remains different muscle types. constant during the contraction. When the muscle contracts, it shortens and moves the load. Isometric contraction occurs when the load is great-
