Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tension on the muscle remains different muscle types. constant during the contraction. When the muscle contracts, it shortens and moves the load. Isometric contraction occurs when the load is great- Characteristics of Isometric Twitches Recorded from er than the force of the muscle contraction; the muscle creates tension Different Muscles. The human body has many sizes of when it contracts, but the overall length of the muscle does not change. skeletal muscles—from the small stapedius muscle in the middle ear, measuring only a few millimeters long and 1 Duration of millimeter or so in diameter, up to the large quadriceps depolarization muscle, a half- million times as large as the stapedius. Fur- thermore, the fibers may be as small as 10 micrometers Soleus in diameter or as large as 80 micrometers. Finally, the energetics of muscle contraction vary considerably from one muscle to another. Therefore, it is no wonder that the Gastrocnemius mechanical characteristics of muscle contraction differ among muscles. Ocular muscle Figure 6-13 shows records of isometric contractions of three types of skeletal muscle—an ocular muscle, which 0 40 80 120 160 200 has a duration of isometric contraction of less than 1/50 Milliseconds second; the gastrocnemius muscle, which has a dura- Figure 6-13 Duration of isometric contractions for different types tion of contraction of about 1/15 second; and the soleus of mammalian skeletal muscles showing a latent period between the muscle, which has a duration of contraction of about 1/5 action potential (depolarization) and muscle contraction. 87 noitcartnoc fo ecroF UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle second. These durations of contraction are highly adapted Spinal cord to the functions of the respective muscles. Ocular move- ments must be extremely rapid to maintain fixation of the eyes on specific objects to provide accuracy of vision. The gastrocnemius muscle must contract moderately rapidly to provide sufficient velocity of limb movement for run- Motor unit ning and jumping, and the soleus muscle is concerned principally with slow contraction for continual, long- term support of the body against gravity. Muscle Somatic motor neuron Fast Versus Slow Muscle Fibers. As will be discussed more fully in Chapter 85 on sports physiology, every mus- cle of the body is composed of a mixture of so-c alled fast Motor unit and slow muscle fibers, with still other fibers gradated between these two extremes. Muscles that react rapidly, including the anterior tibialis, are
