Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a mixture of so-c alled fast Motor unit and slow muscle fibers, with still other fibers gradated between these two extremes. Muscles that react rapidly, including the anterior tibialis, are composed mainly of fast fibers, with only small numbers of the slow variety. Somatic Conversely, muscles such as soleus that respond slowly motor axon but with prolonged contraction are composed mainly of Motor unit slow fibers. The differences between these two types of fibers are described in the following sections. Neuromuscular junctions Slow Fibers (Type 1, Red Muscle). The following are Skeletal muscle fibers characteristics of slow fibers: 1. Slow fibers are smaller than fast fibers. Figure 6-14 A motor unit consists of a motor neuron and the group of skeletal muscle fibers it innervates. A single motor axon may 2. Slow fibers are also innervated by smaller nerve fibers. branch to innervate several muscle fibers that function together as 3. Slow fibers have a more extensive blood vessel sys- a group. Although each muscle fiber is innervated by a single motor tem and more capillaries to supply extra amounts of neuron, an entire muscle may receive input from hundreds of differ- oxygen compared with fast fibers, ent motor neurons. 4. Slow fibers have greatly increased numbers of mi- tochondria to support high levels of oxidative me- MECHANICS OF SKELETAL MUSCLE tabolism. CONTRACTION 5. Slow fibers contain large amounts of myoglobin, an iron- containing protein similar to hemoglobin in Motor Unit—All the Muscle Fibers Innervated by a red blood cells. Myoglobin combines with oxygen Single Nerve Fiber. Each motoneuron that leaves the and stores it until needed, which also greatly speeds spinal cord innervates multiple muscle fibers, with the oxygen transport to the mitochondria. The myoglo- number of fibers innervated depending on the type of bin gives the slow muscle a reddish appearance— muscle. All the muscle fibers innervated by a single nerve hence, the name red muscle. fiber are called a motor unit (Figure 6-14). In general, small muscles that react rapidly and whose control must Fast Fibers (Type II, White Muscle). The following are be exact have more nerve fibers for fewer muscle fibers characteristics of fast fibers: (e.g., as few as two or three muscle fibers per motor unit 1. Fast fibers are large for great strength of contrac- in some of the laryngeal muscles). Conversely, large mus- tion. cles that do not require fine control, such
