Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


motor unit 1. Fast fibers are large for great strength of contrac- in some of the laryngeal muscles). Conversely, large mus- tion. cles that do not require fine control, such as the soleus 2. Fast fibers have an extensive sarcoplasmic reticu- muscle, may have several hundred muscle fibers in a mo- lum for rapid release of calcium ions to initiate con- tor unit. An average figure for all the muscles of the body traction. is questionable, but a reasonable guess would be about 80 3. Large amounts of glycolytic enzymes are present in to 100 muscle fibers to a motor unit. fast fibers for rapid release of energy by the glyco- The muscle fibers in each motor unit are not all lytic process. bunched together in the muscle but overlap other motor 4. Fast fibers have a less extensive blood supply than units in microbundles of 3 to 15 fibers. This interdigitation slow fibers because oxidative metabolism is of sec- allows the separate motor units to contract in support of ondary importance. one another rather than entirely as individual segments. 5. Fast fibers have fewer mitochondria than slow fib- ers, also because oxidative metabolism is secondary. Muscle Contractions of Different Force—Force A deficit of red myoglobin in fast muscle gives it the Summation. Summation means the adding together of name white muscle. individual twitch contractions to increase the intensity 88 Chapter 6 Contraction of Skeletal Muscle completely smooth and continuous, as shown in the fig- ure. This process is called tetanization. At a slightly higher Tetanization frequency, the strength of contraction reaches its maxi- mum, so any additional increase in frequency beyond that point has no further effect in increasing contractile force. Tetany occurs because enough calcium ions are main- tained in the muscle sarcoplasm, even between action po- tentials, so that a full contractile state is sustained without allowing any relaxation between the action potentials. 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 Maximum Strength of Contraction. The maximum Rate of stimulation (times per second) strength of tetanic contraction of a muscle operating at a normal muscle length averages between 3 and 4 kg/cm2 of Figure 6-15 Frequency summation and tetanization. muscle, or 50 pounds/inch2. Because a quadriceps muscle can have up to 16 square inches of muscle belly, as much of overall muscle contraction. Summation occurs in two as 800 pounds of tension may be
