Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a quadriceps muscle can have up to 16 square inches of muscle belly, as much of overall muscle contraction. Summation occurs in two as 800 pounds of tension may be applied to the patellar ways: (1) by increasing the number of motor units con- tendon. Thus, one can readily understand how it is pos- tracting simultaneously, which is called multiple fiber sible for muscles to pull their tendons out of their inser- summation; and (2) by increasing the frequency of con- tions in bone. traction, which is called frequency summation and can lead to tetanization. Changes in Muscle Strength at the Onset of Contraction—the Staircase Effect (Treppe). When a Multiple Fiber Summation. When the central nerv- muscle begins to contract after a long period of rest, its ous system sends a weak signal to contract a muscle, the initial strength of contraction may be as little as one-h alf smaller motor units of the muscle may be stimulated in its strength 10 to 50 muscle twitches later. That is, the preference to the larger motor units. Then, as the strength strength of contraction increases to a plateau, a phenom- of the signal increases, larger and larger motor units begin enon called the staircase effect, or treppe. to be excited, with the largest motor units often having Although all the possible causes of the staircase effect as much as 50 times the contractile force of the smallest are not known, it is believed to be caused primarily by units. This phenomenon, called the size principle, is im- increasing calcium ions in the cytosol because of the portant because it allows the gradations of muscle force release of more and more ions from the sarcoplasmic during weak contraction to occur in small steps, where- reticulum with each successive muscle action poten- as the steps become progressively greater when large tial and failure of the sarcoplasm to recapture the ions amounts of force are required. This size principle occurs immediately. because the smaller motor units are driven by small mo- tor nerve fibers, and the small motoneurons in the spinal Skeletal Muscle Tone. Even when muscles are at rest, a cord are more excitable than the larger ones, so naturally certain amount of tautness usually remains, called muscle they are excited first. tone. Because normal skeletal muscle fibers do not con- Another important feature of multiple fiber summa- tract without an action potential
