Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tautness usually remains, called muscle they are excited first. tone. Because normal skeletal muscle fibers do not con- Another important feature of multiple fiber summa- tract without an action potential to stimulate the fibers, tion is that the different motor units are driven asyn- skeletal muscle tone results entirely from a low rate of chronously by the spinal cord; as a result, contraction nerve impulses coming from the spinal cord. These nerve alternates among motor units one after the other, thus impulses, in turn, are controlled partly by signals trans- providing smooth contraction, even at low frequencies of mitted from the brain to the appropriate spinal cord an- nerve signals. terior motoneurons and partly by signals that originate in muscle spindles located in the muscle. Both these signals Frequency Summation and Tetanization. Figure 6-15 are discussed in relationship to muscle spindle and spinal shows the principles of frequency summation and tetani- cord function in Chapter 55. zation. Individual twitch contractions occurring one after another at low frequency of stimulation are displayed on Muscle Fatigue. Prolonged strong contraction of a mus- the left. Then, as the frequency increases, there comes a cle leads to the well-k nown state of muscle fatigue. Stud- point when each new contraction occurs before the pre- ies in athletes have shown that muscle fatigue increases in ceding one is over. As a result, the second contraction is almost direct proportion to the rate of depletion of mus- added partially to the first, and thus the total strength of cle glycogen. Therefore, fatigue results mainly from the contraction rises progressively with increasing frequency. inability of the contractile and metabolic processes of the When the frequency reaches a critical level, the successive muscle fibers to continue supplying the same work out- contractions eventually become so rapid that they fuse to- put. However, experiments have also shown that trans- gether, and the whole muscle contraction appears to be mission of the nerve signal through the neuromuscular 89 noitcartnoc elcsum fo htgnertS UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Positioning of a Body Part by Contraction of Agonist and Antagonist Muscles on Opposite Sides of a Joint. Virtually all body movements are caused by simultaneous contrac- tion of agonist and antagonist muscles on opposite sides of joints. This process is called coactivation of the agonist and antagonist muscles, and it is controlled by the motor control centers of
