Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


agonist and antagonist muscles on opposite sides of joints. This process is called coactivation of the agonist and antagonist muscles, and it is controlled by the motor control centers of the brain and spinal cord. The position of each separate part of the body, such as Biceps muscle an arm or a leg, is determined by the relative degrees of con- traction of the agonist and antagonist sets of muscles. For example, let us assume that an arm or a leg is to be placed in Lever a midrange position. To achieve this position, agonist and antagonist muscles are excited to about an equal degree. Remember that an elongated muscle contracts with more force than does a shortened muscle, which was illustrated in Figure 6-10, showing maximum strength of contraction at full functional muscle length and almost no strength of contraction at half- normal length. Therefore, the elongated Fulcrum Load muscle on one side of a joint can contract with far greater Figure 6-16 Lever system activated by the biceps muscle. force than the shorter muscle on the opposite side. As an arm or leg moves toward its midposition, the strength of the longer muscle decreases, but the strength of the shorter junction, discussed in Chapter 7, can diminish at least muscle increases until the two strengths equal each other. a small amount after intense prolonged muscle activity, At this point, movement of the arm or leg stops. Thus, by thus further diminishing muscle contraction. Interrup- varying the ratios of the degree of activation of the agonist tion of blood flow through a contracting muscle leads to and antagonist muscles, the nervous system directs the po- almost complete muscle fatigue within 1 or 2 minutes be- sitioning of the arm or leg. We discuss in Chapter 55 that the motor nervous sys- cause of the loss of nutrient supply, especially the loss of tem has additional important mechanisms to compensate oxygen. for different muscle loads when directing this positioning process. Lever Systems of the Body. Muscles operate by applying tension to their points of insertion into bones, and the REMODELING OF MUSCLE TO MATCH bones in turn form various types of lever systems. Fig- FUNCTION ure 6-16 shows the lever system activated by the biceps muscle to lift the forearm against a load. If we assume The muscles of the body continually remodel to match that a large biceps muscle
