Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


system activated by the biceps muscle to lift the forearm against a load. If we assume The muscles of the body continually remodel to match that a large biceps muscle has a cross- sectional area of 6 the functions required of them. Their diameters, lengths, square inches, the maximum force of contraction would strengths, and vascular supplies are altered, and even the be about 300 pounds. When the forearm is at right an- types of muscle fibers are altered, at least slightly. This gles with the upper arm, the tendon attachment of the remodeling process is often quite rapid, occurring within biceps is about 2 inches anterior to the fulcrum at the a few weeks. Experiments in animals have shown that elbow, and the total length of the forearm lever is about 14 inches. Therefore, the amount of lifting power of the muscle contractile proteins in some smaller, more active biceps at the hand would be only one- seventh of the 300 muscles can be replaced in as little as 2 weeks. pounds of muscle force, or about 43 pounds. When the arm is fully extended, the attachment of the biceps is Muscle Hypertrophy and Muscle Atrophy. The in- much less than 2 inches anterior to the fulcrum, and the crease of the total mass of a muscle is called muscle hy- force with which the hand can be brought forward is also pertrophy. When the total mass decreases, the process is much less than 43 pounds. called muscle atrophy. In short, an analysis of the lever systems of the body de- Virtually all muscle hypertrophy results from an pends on knowledge of the following: (1) the point of muscle increase in the number of actin and myosin filaments insertion; (2) its distance from the fulcrum of the lever; (3) in each muscle fiber, causing enlargement of the indi- the length of the lever arm; and (4) the position of the lever. vidual muscle fibers; this condition is called simply fiber Many types of movement are required in the body, some of hypertrophy. Hypertrophy occurs to a much greater which need great strength and others that need large dis- tances of movement. For this reason, there are many dif- extent when the muscle is loaded during the contrac- ferent types of muscle; some are long and contract a long tile process. Only a few strong contractions each day are distance,
