Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


when the muscle is loaded during the contrac- ferent types of muscle; some are long and contract a long tile process. Only a few strong contractions each day are distance, and some are short but have large cross- sectional required to cause significant hypertrophy within 6 to 10 areas and can provide extreme strength of contraction over weeks. short distances. The study of different types of muscles, le- The manner in which forceful contraction leads to ver systems, and their movements is called kinesiology and hypertrophy is poorly understood. It is known, however, is an important scientific component of human physiology. that the rate of synthesis of muscle contractile proteins is 90 Chapter 6 Contraction of Skeletal Muscle far greater when hypertrophy is developing, leading also fatty tissue. The fibers that do remain are composed of a to progressively greater numbers of both actin and myo- long cell membrane with a lineup of muscle cell nuclei but sin filaments in the myofibrils, often increasing as much with few or no contractile properties and little or no capa- as 50%. Some of the myofibrils have been observed to split bility of regenerating myofibrils if a nerve does regrow. within hypertrophying muscle to form new myofibrils, The fibrous tissue that replaces the muscle fibers dur- but the importance of this process in the usual enlarge- ing denervation atrophy also has a tendency to continue ment of skeletal muscle is still unknown. shortening for many months, a process called contracture. Along with the increasing size of myofibrils, the enzyme Therefore, one of the most important problems in the systems that provide energy also increase, especially the practice of physical therapy is to keep atrophying muscles enzymes for glycolysis, allowing for a rapid supply of from developing debilitating and disfiguring contractures. energy during short- term forceful muscle contraction. This goal is achieved by daily stretching of the muscles or When a muscle remains unused for many weeks, the use of appliances that keep the muscles stretched during rate of degradation of the contractile proteins is more the atrophying process. rapid than the rate of replacement. Therefore, muscle Recovery of Muscle Contraction in Poliomyelitis: atrophy occurs. The pathway that appears to account for much of the protein degradation in a muscle undergo- Development of Macromotor Units. When some but not all nerve fibers to a muscle are destroyed, as occurs in po- ing atrophy is
