Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the protein degradation in a muscle undergo- Development of Macromotor Units. When some but not all nerve fibers to a muscle are destroyed, as occurs in po- ing atrophy is the ATP- dependent ubiquitin- proteasome liomyelitis, the remaining nerve fibers branch off to form pathway. Proteasomes are large protein complexes that new axons that then innervate many of the paralyzed mus- degrade damaged or unneeded proteins by proteolysis, a cle fibers. This process results in large motor units called chemical reaction that breaks peptide bonds. Ubiquitin is macromotor units, which can contain as many as five times a regulatory protein that basically labels which cells will the normal number of muscle fibers for each motoneuron be targeted for proteosomal degradation. coming from the spinal cord. The formation of large mo- tor units decreases the fineness of control one has over the Adjustment of Muscle Length. Another type of hyper- muscles but allows the muscles to regain varying degrees trophy occurs when muscles are stretched to greater than of strength. normal length. This stretching causes new sarcomeres to Rigor Mortis. Several hours after death, all the muscles be added at the ends of the muscle fibers, where they at- of the body go into a state of contracture called rigor mortis; tach to the tendons. In fact, new sarcomeres can be added that is, the muscles contract and become rigid, even with- out action potentials. This rigidity results from loss of all as rapidly as several per minute in newly developing mus- the ATP, which is required to cause separation of the cross- cle, illustrating the rapidity of this type of hypertrophy. bridges from the actin filaments during the relaxation pro- Conversely, when a muscle continually remains short- cess. The muscles remain in rigor until the muscle proteins ened to less than its normal length, sarcomeres at the deteriorate about 15 to 25 hours later, which presumably ends of the muscle fibers can actually disappear. It is by results from autolysis caused by enzymes released from these processes that muscles are continually remodeled lysosomes. All these events occur more rapidly at higher so they have the appropriate length for proper muscle temperatures. contraction. Muscular Dystrophy. The muscular dystrophies include several inherited disorders that cause progressive weakness Hyperplasia of Muscle Fibers. Under rare conditions and degeneration of muscle fibers, which are replaced by of extreme muscle force generation, the actual number of
