Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


disorders that cause progressive weakness Hyperplasia of Muscle Fibers. Under rare conditions and degeneration of muscle fibers, which are replaced by of extreme muscle force generation, the actual number of fatty tissue and collagen. muscle fibers has been observed to increase (but only by a One of the most common forms of muscular dystro- phy is Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). This disease few percent), in addition to the fiber hypertrophy process. affects only males because it is transmitted as an X-l inked This increase in fiber number is called fiber hyperplasia. recessive trait and is caused by mutation of the gene that When it does occur, the mechanism is linear splitting of encodes for a protein called dystrophin, which links actins to previously enlarged fibers. proteins in the muscle cell membrane. Dystrophin and as- sociated proteins form an interface between the intracellular Muscle Denervation Causes Rapid Atrophy. When contractile apparatus and extracellular connective matrix. a muscle loses its nerve supply, it no longer receives the Although the precise functions of dystrophin are not contractile signals that are required to maintain normal completely understood, lack of dystrophin or mutated muscle size. Therefore, atrophy begins almost immedi- forms of the protein cause muscle cell membrane desta- ately. After about 2 months, degenerative changes also bilization and activation of multiple pathophysiological begin to appear in the muscle fibers. If the nerve supply to processes, including altered intracellular calcium handling and impaired membrane repair after injury. One important the muscle grows back rapidly, full return of function can effect of abnormal dystrophin is an increase in membrane occur in as little as 3 months but, from then onward, the permeability to calcium, thus allowing extracellular calci- capability of functional return becomes less and less, with um ions to enter the muscle fiber and initiate changes in in- no further return of function after 1 to 2 years. tracellular enzymes that ultimately lead to proteolysis and In the final stage of denervation atrophy, most of the muscle fiber breakdown. muscle fibers are destroyed and replaced by fibrous and 91 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Symptoms of DMD include muscle weakness that be- Gunning P, O’Neill G, Hardeman E: Tropomyosin-b ased regulation of the actin cytoskeleton in time and space. Physiol Rev 88:1, 2008. gins in early childhood and rapidly progresses, so that the Heckman CJ, Enoka RM: Motor unit. Compr Physiol
