Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


its midpoint. The action potential initi- When a nerve impulse reaches the neuromuscular junc- ated in the muscle fiber by the nerve signal travels in both tion, about 125 vesicles of acetylcholine are released from directions toward the muscle fiber ends. With the excep- the terminals into the synaptic space. Some of the details tion of about 2% of the muscle fibers, there is only one of this mechanism can be seen in Figure 7-2, which such junction per muscle fiber. shows an expanded view of a synaptic space with the neu- ral membrane above and the muscle membrane and its PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF THE subneural clefts below. NEUROMUSCULAR JUNCTION—THE On the inside surface of the neural membrane are lin- MOTOR END PLATE ear dense bars, shown in cross section in Figure 7-2. To each side of each dense bar are protein particles that pen- Figure 7-1A and B shows the neuromuscular junction etrate the neural membrane; these are voltage- gated cal- from a large myelinated nerve fiber to a skeletal muscle cium channels. When an action potential spreads over the fiber. The nerve fiber forms a complex of branching nerve terminal, these channels open and allow calcium ions to terminals that invaginate into the surface of the muscle diffuse from the synaptic space to the interior of the nerve fiber but lie outside the muscle fiber plasma membrane. terminal. The calcium ions, in turn, are believed to acti- The entire structure is called the motor end plate. It is cov- vate Ca2+- calmodulin–dependent protein kinase, which, ered by one or more Schwann cells that insulate it from in turn, phosphorylates synapsin proteins that anchor the surrounding fluids. the acetylcholine vesicles to the cytoskeleton of the pre- Figure 7-1C shows the junction between a single axon synaptic terminal. This process frees the acetylcholine terminal and the muscle fiber membrane. The invaginated vesicles from the cytoskeleton and allows them to move membrane is called the synaptic gutter or synaptic trough, to the active zone of the presynaptic neural membrane and the space between the terminal and the fiber mem- adjacent to the dense bars. The vesicles then dock at the brane is called the synaptic space or synaptic cleft, which release sites, fuse with the neural membrane, and empty is 20 to 30 nanometers wide. At the bottom of the gut- their acetylcholine into the synaptic space by the process ter
