Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sites, fuse with the neural membrane, and empty is 20 to 30 nanometers wide. At the bottom of the gut- their acetylcholine into the synaptic space by the process ter are numerous smaller folds of the muscle membrane of exocytosis. called subneural clefts, which greatly increase the surface Although some of the aforementioned details are spec- area at which the synaptic transmitter can act. ulative, it is known that the effective stimulus for causing In the axon terminal are many mitochondria that sup- acetylcholine release from the vesicles is entry of calcium ply adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the energy source used ions and that acetylcholine from the vesicles is then emp- for synthesis of a transmitter, acetylcholine, which excites tied through the neural membrane adjacent to the dense the muscle fiber membrane. Acetylcholine is synthesized bars. 93 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Myelin Axon sheath Terminal nerve branches Teloglial cell Myofibrils Muscle nuclei A B Axon terminal in Synaptic vesicles synaptic trough C Subneural clefts Figure 7-1. Different views of the motor end plate. A, Longitudinal section through the end plate. B, Surface view of the end plate. C, Electron micrographic appearance of the contact point between a single axon terminal and the muscle fiber membrane. Release Neural Vesicles the subneural clefts lying immediately below the dense sites membrane bar areas, where the acetylcholine is emptied into the syn- aptic space. The voltage-g ated sodium channels also line the subneural clefts. Dense bar Each acetylcholine receptor is a protein complex that Calcium channels has a total molecular weight of approximately 275,000. The fetal acetylcholine receptor complex is composed of Basal lamina and five subunit proteins, two alpha proteins and one each of acetylcholinesterase beta, delta, and gamma proteins. In the adult, an epsilon protein substitutes for the gamma protein in this recep- Acetylcholine receptors tor complex. These protein molecules penetrate all the way through the membrane, lying side by side in a circle to form a tubular channel, illustrated in Figure 7-3. The Subneural cleft channel remains constricted, as shown in part A of the Voltage-activated Na+ channels figure, until two acetylcholine molecules attach respec- tively to the two alpha subunit proteins. This attachment causes a conformational change that opens the channel, Muscle as shown in part B of the figure. membrane The acetylcholine-g ated channel has a diameter of Figure 7-2. Release of acetylcholine from synaptic
