Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


change that opens the channel, Muscle as shown in part B of the figure. membrane The acetylcholine-g ated channel has a diameter of Figure 7-2. Release of acetylcholine from synaptic vesicles at the about 0.65 nanometer, which is large enough to allow the neural membrane of the neuromuscular junction. Note the proximity of the release sites in the neural membrane to the acetylcholine recep- important positive ions—sodium (Na+), potassium (K+), tors in the muscle membrane at the mouths of the subneural clefts. and calcium (Ca2+)—to move easily through the opening. Patch clamp studies have shown that one of these chan- Acetylcholine Opens Ion Channels on Postsynaptic nels, when opened by acetylcholine, can transmit 15,000 Membranes. Figure 7-2 also shows many small acetyl- to 30,000 sodium ions in 1 millisecond. Conversely, nega- choline receptors and voltage- gated sodium channels in tive ions, such as chloride ions, do not pass through the muscle fiber membrane. The acetylcholine- gated ion because of strong negative charges in the mouth of the channels are located almost entirely near the mouths of channel that repel these negative ions. 94 Chapter 7 Excitation of Skeletal Muscle: Neuromuscular Transmission and Excitation-Contraction Coupling Ach binding Ach binding +60 site site +40 – – – – +20 – – 0 –20 Threshold –40 –60 –80 A B C –100 0 15 30 45 60 75 Milliseconds Figure 7-4. End plate potentials (in millivolts). A, Weakened end plate potential recorded in a curarized muscle that is too weak to elicit an action potential. B, Normal end plate potential eliciting a A muscle action potential. C, Weakened end plate potential caused by Na+ botulinum toxin that decreases end plate release of acetylcholine, again too weak to elicit a muscle action potential. Ach Ach – – spreads along the muscle membrane and causes muscle – – contraction. – – Destruction of the Released Acetylcholine by Ace- tylcholinesterase. The acetylcholine, once released into the synaptic space, continues to activate acetylcholine re- ceptors as long as the acetylcholine persists in the space. However, it is rapidly destroyed by the enzyme acetylcho- linesterase, which is attached mainly to the spongy layer of fine connective tissue that fills the synaptic space be- tween the presynaptic nerve terminal and the postsynap- tic muscle membrane. A small amount of acetylcholine diffuses out of the synaptic space and is then no longer B available to act on the muscle fiber
