Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and the postsynap- tic muscle membrane. A small amount of acetylcholine diffuses out of the synaptic space and is then no longer B available to act on the muscle fiber membrane. Figure 7-3. Acetylcholine- gated channel. A, Closed state. B, After The short time that the acetylcholine remains in the acetylcholine (Ach) has become attached and a conformational change synaptic space—a few milliseconds at most—normally has opened the channel, allowing sodium ions to enter the muscle fiber and excite contraction. Note the negative charges at the channel is sufficient to excite the muscle fiber. Then the rapid mouth that prevent passage of negative ions such as chloride ions. removal of the acetylcholine prevents continued muscle re- excitation after the muscle fiber has recovered from its In practice, far more sodium ions flow through the initial action potential. acetylcholine- gated channels than any other ions for two reasons. First, there are only two positive ions End Plate Potential and Excitation of the Skeletal present in large concentrations—sodium ions in the Muscle Fiber. The sudden insurgence of sodium ions extracellular fluid and potassium ions in the intracel- into the muscle fiber when the acetylcholine-g ated chan- lular fluid. Second, the negative potential on the inside nels open causes the electrical potential inside the fiber at of the muscle membrane, −80 to −90 millivolts, pulls the local area of the end plate to increase in the positive the positively charged sodium ions to the inside of the direction as much as 50 to 75 millivolts, creating a local fiber while simultaneously preventing efflux of the pos- potential called the end plate potential. Recall from Chap- itively charged potassium ions when they attempt to ter 5 that a sudden increase in nerve membrane potential pass outward. of more than 20 to 30 millivolts is normally sufficient to As shown in Figure 7-3B, the principal effect of open- initiate more and more sodium channel opening, thus ini- ing the acetylcholine- gated channels is to allow sodium tiating an action potential at the muscle fiber membrane. ions to flow to the inside of the fiber, carrying positive Figure 7-4 illustrates an end plate potential initiat- charges with them. This action creates a local positive ing the action potential. This figure shows three separate potential change inside the muscle fiber membrane, called end plate potentials. End plate potentials A and C are the end plate potential. This
