Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


action potential. This figure shows three separate potential change inside the muscle fiber membrane, called end plate potentials. End plate potentials A and C are the end plate potential. This end plate potential normally too weak to elicit an action potential, but they do pro- causes sufficient depolarization to open neighboring duce weak local end plate voltage changes, as recorded voltage-g ated sodium channels, allowing even greater in the figure. By contrast, end plate potential B is much sodium ion inflow and initiating an action potential that stronger and causes enough sodium channels to open 95 stlovilliM UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle so that the self-r egenerative effect of more and more is actively reabsorbed into the neural terminal to be re- sodium ions flowing to the interior of the fiber initiates an used to form new acetylcholine. This sequence of events action potential. The weakness of the end plate potential occurs within a period of 5 to 10 milliseconds. 4. The number of vesicles available in the nerve ending is at point A was caused by poisoning of the muscle fiber sufficient to allow transmission of only a few thousand with curare, a drug that blocks the gating action of ace- nerve to muscle impulses. Therefore, for continued tylcholine on the acetylcholine channels by competing for function of the neuromuscular junction, new vesicles the acetylcholine receptor sites. The weakness of the end need to be re- formed rapidly. Within a few seconds after plate potential at point C resulted from the effect of botu- each action potential is over, coated pits appear in the linum toxin, a bacterial poison that decreases the quantity terminal nerve membrane, caused by contractile pro- of acetylcholine release by the nerve terminals. teins in the nerve ending, especially the protein clathrin, which is attached to the membrane in the areas of the Safety Factor for Transmission at the Neuromuscu- original vesicles. Within about 20 seconds, the proteins lar Junction—Fatigue of the Junction. Ordinarily, contract and cause the pits to break away to the interior each impulse that arrives at the neuromuscular junction of the membrane, thus forming new vesicles. Within another few seconds, acetylcholine is transported to the causes about three times as much end plate potential as interior of these vesicles, and they are then ready for a that required to stimulate the muscle fiber. Therefore, new cycle of
