Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


three times as much end plate potential as interior of these vesicles, and they are then ready for a that required to stimulate the muscle fiber. Therefore, new cycle of acetylcholine release. the normal neuromuscular junction is said to have a high safety factor. However, stimulation of the nerve fiber at Drugs That Enhance or Block Transmission at the rates greater than 100 times per second for several min- Neuromuscular Junction utes may diminish the number of acetylcholine vesicles so Drugs That Stimulate the Muscle Fiber by Acetylcholine- much that impulses fail to pass into the muscle fiber. This Like Action. Several compounds, including methacholine, situation is called fatigue of the neuromuscular junction, carbachol, and nicotine, have nearly the same effect on the and it is the same effect that causes fatigue of synapses in muscle fiber as acetylcholine. The main differences be- the central nervous system when the synapses are overex- tween these drugs and acetylcholine are that the drugs are cited. Under normal functioning conditions, measurable not destroyed by cholinesterase or are destroyed so slowly fatigue of the neuromuscular junction occurs rarely and, that their action often persists for many minutes to several even then, only at the most exhausting levels of muscle hours. The drugs work by causing localized areas of depo- activity. larization of the muscle fiber membrane at the motor end plate where the acetylcholine receptors are located. Then, Acetylcholine Formation and Release every time the muscle fiber recovers from a previous con- traction, these depolarized areas, by virtue of leaking ions, Acetylcholine formation and release at the neuromuscular initiate a new action potential, thereby causing a state of junction occur in the following stages: muscle spasm. 1. Small vesicles, about 40 nanometers in size, are formed Drugs That Stimulate the Neuromuscular Junction by the Golgi apparatus in the cell body of the motoneu- by Inactivating Acetylcholinesterase. Three particularly ron in the spinal cord. These vesicles are then trans- well- known drugs—neostigmine, physostigmine, and diiso- ported by axoplasm that streams through the core of propyl fluorophosphate—inactivate acetylcholinesterase in the axon from the central cell body in the spinal cord all the synapses so that it no longer hydrolyzes acetylcholine. the way to the neuromuscular junction at the tips of the Therefore, with each successive nerve impulse, additional peripheral nerve fibers. About 300,000 of these small acetylcholine accumulates and stimulates the muscle fiber vesicles collect in
