Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


at the tips of the Therefore, with each successive nerve impulse, additional peripheral nerve fibers. About 300,000 of these small acetylcholine accumulates and stimulates the muscle fiber vesicles collect in the nerve terminals of a single skeletal repetitively. This activity causes muscle spasm when even muscle end plate. a few nerve impulses reach the muscle. Unfortunately, it 2. Acetylcholine is synthesized in the cytosol of the nerve can also cause death as a result of laryngeal spasm, which fiber terminal but is immediately transported through smothers a person. the membranes of the vesicles to their interior, where Neostigmine and physostigmine combine with acetyl- it is stored in highly concentrated form—about 10,000 cholinesterase to inactivate the acetylcholinesterase for up molecules of acetylcholine in each vesicle. to several hours, after which these drugs are displaced from 3. When an action potential arrives at the nerve terminal, the acetylcholinesterase so that the esterase once again be- it opens many calcium channels in the membrane of the comes active. Conversely, diisopropyl fluorophosphate, nerve terminal because this terminal has an abundance which is a powerful nerve gas poison, inactivates acetylcho- of voltage- gated calcium channels. As a result, the cal- linesterase for weeks, which makes this poison particularly cium ion concentration inside the terminal membrane lethal. increases about 100- fold, which in turn increases the Drugs That Block Transmission at the Neuromuscular rate of fusion of the acetylcholine vesicles with the ter- Junction. A group of drugs known as curariform drugs can minal membrane about 10,000-f old. This fusion makes prevent the passage of impulses from the nerve ending into many of the vesicles rupture, allowing exocytosis of ace- the muscle. For example. d- tubocurarine blocks the action tylcholine into the synaptic space. About 125 vesicles of acetylcholine on the muscle fiber acetylcholine receptors, usually rupture with each action potential. Then, after a thus preventing sufficient increase in permeability of the few milliseconds, the acetylcholine is split by acetylcho- muscle membrane channels to initiate an action potential. linesterase into acetate ion and choline, and the choline 96 Chapter 7 Excitation of Skeletal Muscle: Neuromuscular Transmission and Excitation-Contraction Coupling Myasthenia Gravis Causes Muscle Weakness EXCITATION- CONTRACTION COUPLING Myasthenia gravis, which occurs in about 1 in every 20,000 persons, causes muscle weakness because of the inability Transverse Tubule–Sarcoplasmic of the neuromuscular junctions to transmit enough signals Reticulum System from the nerve fibers to the muscle fibers. Antibodies
