Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


20,000 persons, causes muscle weakness because of the inability Transverse Tubule–Sarcoplasmic of the neuromuscular junctions to transmit enough signals Reticulum System from the nerve fibers to the muscle fibers. Antibodies that attack the acetylcholine receptors have been demonstrat- Figure 7-5 shows myofibrils surrounded by the T tubule– ed in the blood of most patients with myasthenia gravis. sarcoplasmic reticulum system. The T tubules are small Therefore, myasthenia gravis is believed to be an autoim- and run transverse to the myofibrils. They begin at the mune disease in which the patients have developed anti- cell membrane and penetrate all the way from one side bodies that block or destroy their own acetylcholine recep- of the muscle fiber to the opposite side. Not shown in the tors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction. figure is that these tubules branch among themselves and Regardless of the cause, the end plate potentials that form entire planes of T tubules interlacing among all the occur in the muscle fibers are mostly too weak to initiate opening of the voltage- gated sodium channels, and muscle separate myofibrils. Also, where the T tubules originate fiber depolarization does not occur. If the disease is intense from the cell membrane, they are open to the exterior of enough, the patient may die of respiratory failure as a result the muscle fiber. Therefore, they communicate with the of severe weakness of the respiratory muscles. The disease extracellular fluid surrounding the muscle fiber and con- can usually be ameliorated for several hours by adminis- tain extracellular fluid in their lumens. In other words, the tering neostigmine or some other anticholinesterase drug, T tubules are actually internal extensions of the cell mem- which allows larger than normal amounts of acetylcholine brane. Therefore, when an action potential spreads over a to accumulate in the synaptic space. Within minutes, some muscle fiber membrane, a potential change also spreads of those affected can begin to function almost normally un- along the T tubules to the deep interior of the muscle til a new dose of neostigmine is required a few hours later. fiber. The electrical currents surrounding these T tubules then elicit the muscle contraction. MUSCLE ACTION POTENTIAL Figure 7-5 also shows a sarcoplasmic reticulum, in yellow. This sarcoplasmic reticulum is composed of two Almost everything discussed in Chapter 5 regarding the major parts: (1) large chambers called terminal cisternae initiation and conduction of action potentials
