Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


yellow. This sarcoplasmic reticulum is composed of two Almost everything discussed in Chapter 5 regarding the major parts: (1) large chambers called terminal cisternae initiation and conduction of action potentials in nerve that abut the T tubules; and (2) long longitudinal tubules fibers applies equally to skeletal muscle fibers, except for that surround all surfaces of the contracting myofibrils. quantitative differences. Some of the quantitative aspects Release of Calcium Ions by the of muscle potentials are as follows: Sarcoplasmic Reticulum 1. The resting membrane potential is about −80 to −90 millivolts in skeletal fibers, about 10 to 20 millivolts One of the special features of the sarcoplasmic reticulum more negative than in neurons. is that within its vesicular tubules is an excess of calcium 2. The duration of the action potential is 1 to 5 mil- ions in high concentration. Many of these ions are released liseconds in skeletal muscle, about five times as long from each vesicle when an action potential occurs in the as in large myelinated nerves. adjacent T tubule. 3. The velocity of conduction is 3 to 5 m/sec, about Figures 7-6 and 7-7 show that the action potential of 1/13 the velocity of conduction in the large myeli- the T tubule causes current flow into the sarcoplasmic nated nerve fibers that excite skeletal muscle. reticular cisternae where they abut the T tubule. As the action potential reaches the T tubule, the voltage change Action Potentials Spread to the Interior is sensed by dihydropyridine receptors linked to calcium of the Muscle Fiber by Way of Transverse release channels, also called ryanodine receptor channels, Tubules in the adjacent sarcoplasmic reticular cisternae (see Fig- The skeletal muscle fiber is so large that action poten- ure 7-6). Activation of dihydropyridine receptors triggers tials spreading along its surface membrane cause the opening of the calcium release channels in the cister- almost no current flow deep within the fiber. Maximum nae, as well as in their attached longitudinal tubules. These muscle contraction, however, requires the current to channels remain open for a few milliseconds, releasing penetrate deeply into the muscle fiber to the vicinity calcium ions into the sarcoplasm surrounding the myo- of the separate myofibrils. This penetration is achieved fibrils and causing contraction, as discussed in Chapter 6. by transmission of action potentials along transverse tubules (T tubules) that penetrate all the way through Calcium Pump Removes Calcium Ions from
