Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and causing contraction, as discussed in Chapter 6. by transmission of action potentials along transverse tubules (T tubules) that penetrate all the way through Calcium Pump Removes Calcium Ions from the the muscle fiber, from one side of the fiber to the other, Myofibrillar Fluid After Contraction Occurs. Once the as illustrated in Figure 7-5. The T tubule action poten- calcium ions have been released from the sarcoplasmic tials cause release of calcium ions inside the muscle tubules and have diffused among the myofibrils, muscle fiber in the immediate vicinity of the myofibrils, and contraction continues as long as the calcium ion concen- these calcium ions then cause contraction. The overall tration remains high. However, a continually active c alcium process is called excitation-c ontraction coupling. pump located in the walls of the sarcoplasmic r eticulum 97 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Myofibrils Sarcolemma Terminal cisternae Z disk Triad of the reticulum Transverse tubule Mitochondrion A band Sarcoplasmic reticulum Transverse tubule I band Z disk Sarcotubules Figure 7-5. Transverse (T) tubule–sarcoplasmic reticulum system. Note that the T tubules communicate with the outside of the cell membrane and, deep in the muscle fiber, each T tubule lies adjacent to the ends of longitudinal sarcoplasmic reticulum tubules that surround all sides of the actual myofibrils that contract. This illustration was drawn from frog muscle, which has one T tubule per sarcomere, located at the Z disk. A similar arrangement is found in mammalian heart muscle, but mammalian skeletal muscle has two T tubules per sarcomere, located at the A- I band junctions. pumps calcium ions away from the myofibrils back into ions again. The total duration of this calcium pulse in the the sarcoplasmic tubules (see Figure 7-6). This pump, usual skeletal muscle fiber lasts about 1/20 of a second, called SERCA (sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-A TPase), although it may last several times as long in some fibers can concentrate the calcium ions about 10,000-f old inside and several times less in others. In heart muscle, the cal- the tubules. In addition, inside the reticulum is a calcium- cium pulse lasts about one- third of a second because of binding protein called calsequestrin, which can bind up to the long duration of the cardiac action potential. 40 calcium ions for each molecule of calsequestrin. During this calcium pulse, muscle contraction occurs. If the contraction is to continue without interruption
