Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


long duration of the cardiac action potential. 40 calcium ions for each molecule of calsequestrin. During this calcium pulse, muscle contraction occurs. If the contraction is to continue without interruption for Excitatory Pulse of Calcium Ions. The normal resting long intervals, a series of calcium pulses must be initiated state concentration (<10−7 molar) of calcium ions in the by a continuous series of repetitive action potentials, as cytosol that bathes the myofibrils is too little to elicit con- discussed in Chapter 6. traction. Therefore, the troponin- tropomyosin complex keeps the actin filaments inhibited and maintains a re- Malignant Hyperthermia laxed state of the muscle. In susceptible individuals, malignant hyperthermia and Conversely, full excitation of the T tubule and sar- a hypermetabolic crisis may be triggered by exposure to coplasmic reticulum system causes enough release of certain types of anesthetics, including halothane and iso- calcium ions to increase the concentration in the myo- flurane, or succinylcholine. At least six genetic mutations, fibrillar fluid to as high as 2 × 10−4 molar concentration, especially of the ryanodine receptor or dihydropyridine a 500- fold increase, which is about 10 times the level receptor genes, have been shown to increase susceptibil- required to cause maximum muscle contraction. Imme- ity greatly to developing malignant hyperthermia during diately thereafter, the calcium pump depletes the calcium anesthesia. Little is known about the specific mechanisms 98 enoz H enil M Chapter 7 Excitation of Skeletal Muscle: Neuromuscular Transmission and Excitation-Contraction Coupling Nerve terminal Action potential + Ca2+ Release Channel (RyR) + (open) + DHP receptor Ca2+ Sarcoplasmic reticulum + + Terminal Cisterne + Ca2+ Repolarization + + Calsequestrin + + + + + SERCA Ca2+ + Ca2+ Release Channel (RyR) (closed) Figure 7-6. Excitation- contraction coupling in skeletal muscle. The top panel shows an action potential in the transverse tubule that causes a conformational change in the voltage- sensing dihydropyridine (DHP) receptors, opening the ryanodine (RyR) Ca2+ release channels in the ter- minal cisternae of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and permitting Ca2+ to diffuse rapidly into the sarcoplasm and initiate muscle contraction. During repolarization (bottom panel), the conformational change in the DHP receptor closes the Ca2+ release channels, and Ca2+ is transported from the sarcoplasm into the sarcoplasmic reticulum by an adenosine triphosphate–dependent calcium pump, called SERCA (sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-A TPase). Action potential Sarcolemma Calcium pump Ca Ca ATP required Ca2+ Ca2+ Actin filaments Myosin filaments Figure 7-7. Excitation-
