Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that antagonizes ryanodine receptors, which Ruff RL: Endplate contributions to the safety factor for neuromuscular inhibits calcium ion release for the sarcoplasmic reticulum transmission. Muscle Nerve 44:854, 2011. and thereby attenuating muscle contraction. Sine SM: End- plate acetylcholine receptor: structure, mechanism, pharmacology, and disease. Physiol Rev 92:1189, 2012. Tintignac LA, Brenner HR, Rüegg MA. Mechanisms regulating neuro- Bibliography muscular junction development and function and causes of muscle wasting. Physiol Rev 95:809-8 52, 2015 Also see the bibliography for Chapters 5 and 6. Vincent A: Unraveling the pathogenesis of myasthenia gravis. Nat Rev Bouzat C, Sine SM. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at the single- Immunol 10:797, 2002. channel level. Br J Pharmacol 175:1789-1 804, 2018. 100 CHAPTER 8 Excitation and Contraction of Smooth Muscle CONTRACTION OF SMOOTH MUSCLE Unitary Smooth Muscle. Unitary smooth muscle is also Smooth muscle is composed of small fibers that are usu- called syncytial smooth muscle or visceral smooth muscle. ally 1 to 5 micrometers in diameter and only 20 to 500 The term unitary does not mean single muscle fibers. In- micrometers in length. In contrast, skeletal muscle fibers stead, it means a mass of hundreds to thousands of smooth are as much as 30 times greater in diameter and hundreds muscle fibers that contract together as a single unit. The of times as long. Many of the same principles of contrac- fibers usually are arranged in sheets or bundles, and their tion apply to smooth muscle as to skeletal muscle. Most cell membranes are adherent to one another at multiple important, essentially the same attractive forces between points so that force generated in one muscle fiber can be myosin and actin filaments cause contraction in smooth transmitted to the next. In addition, the cell membranes muscle as in skeletal muscle, but the internal physical are joined by many gap junctions through which ions can arrangement of smooth muscle fibers is different. flow freely from one muscle cell to the next so that ac- tion potentials, or ion flow without action potentials, can TYPES OF SMOOTH MUSCLE travel from one fiber to the next and cause the muscle fib- ers to contract together. This type of smooth muscle is also The smooth muscle of each organ is distinctive from known as syncytial smooth muscle because of its syncyt- that of most other organs in several ways: (1) physical ial interconnections among fibers. It is also called visceral
