Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


distinctive from known as syncytial smooth muscle because of its syncyt- that of most other organs in several ways: (1) physical ial interconnections among fibers. It is also called visceral dimensions; (2) organization into bundles or sheets; (3) smooth muscle because it is found in the walls of most vis- response to different types of stimuli; (4) characteristics cera of the body, including the gastrointestinal tract, bile of innervation; and (5) function. Yet, for the sake of sim- ducts, ureters, uterus, and many blood vessels. plicity, smooth muscle can generally be divided into two major types, which are shown in Figure 8-1, multi- unit smooth muscle and unitary (or single- unit) smooth muscle. CONTRACTILE MECHANISM IN SMOOTH MUSCLE Multi- Unit Smooth Muscle. Multi- unit smooth muscle Chemical Basis for Smooth Muscle is composed of discrete, separate, smooth muscle fibers. Contraction Each fiber operates independently of the others and often is innervated by a single nerve ending, as occurs for skele- Smooth muscle contains both actin and myosin filaments, tal muscle fibers. Furthermore, the outer surfaces of these having chemical characteristics similar to those of the fibers, like those of skeletal muscle fibers, are covered by a actin and myosin filaments in skeletal muscle. It does not thin layer of basement membrane–like substance, a mix- contain the troponin complex that is required for the con- ture of fine collagen and glycoprotein that helps insulate trol of skeletal muscle contraction, and thus the mecha- the separate fibers from one another. nism for controlling contraction is different. This topic is Important characteristics of multi- unit smooth discussed in more detail later in this chapter. muscle fibers are that each fiber can contract indepen- Chemical studies have shown that actin and myo- dently of the others, and their control is exerted mainly sin filaments derived from smooth muscle interact with by nerve signals. In contrast, a major share of control each other in much the same way that they do in skeletal of unitary smooth muscle is exerted by non- nervous muscle. Furthermore, the contractile process is activated stimuli. Some examples of multi- unit smooth muscle by calcium ions, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is are the ciliary muscle of the eye, the iris muscle of the degraded to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) to provide the eye, and the piloerector muscles that cause erection of energy for contraction. the hairs when stimulated by the sympathetic nervous
