Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the degraded to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) to provide the eye, and the piloerector muscles that cause erection of energy for contraction. the hairs when stimulated by the sympathetic nervous There are, however, major differences between the system. physical organization of smooth muscle and that of 101 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Adventitia Actin filaments Medial muscle Dense bodies fibers Endothelium Small artery A Multi-unit smooth muscle B Unitary smooth muscle Myosin filaments Figure 8-1 Multi- unit (A) and unitary (B) smooth muscle. skeletal muscle, as well as differences in excitation- contraction coupling, control of the contractile process by calcium ions, duration of contraction, and the amount of energy required for contraction. Physical Basis for Smooth Muscle Contraction Cell membrane Smooth muscle does not have the same striated arrange- ment of actin and myosin filaments as is found in skeletal muscle. Instead, electron micrographic techniques sug- gest the physical organization shown in Figure 8-2, which illustrates large numbers of actin filaments attached to dense bodies. Some of these bodies are attached to the cell membrane, and others are dispersed inside the cell. Some of the membrane-d ense bodies of adjacent cells are bonded together by intercellular protein bridges. It is mainly through these bonds that the force of contraction Figure 8-2 Physical structure of smooth muscle. The fiber on the up- is transmitted from one cell to the next. per left shows actin filaments radiating from dense bodies. The fiber on the lower left and at right demonstrate the relation of myosin Interspersed among the actin filaments in the muscle filaments to actin filaments. fiber are myosin filaments. These filaments have a diam- eter more than twice that of the actin filaments. In elec- tron micrographs, 5 to 10 times as many actin filaments as on one side while simultaneously pulling another actin fila- myosin filaments are usually found. ment in the opposite direction on the other side. The value To the right in Figure 8-2 is a postulated structure of an of this organization is that it allows smooth muscle cells to individual contractile unit in a smooth muscle cell, show- contract as much as 80% of their length instead of being ing large numbers of actin filaments radiating from two limited to less than 30%, as occurs in skeletal muscle. dense bodies; the ends of these filaments overlap a myosin Comparison of Smooth Muscle
