Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of actin filaments radiating from two limited to less than 30%, as occurs in skeletal muscle. dense bodies; the ends of these filaments overlap a myosin Comparison of Smooth Muscle filament located midway between the dense bodies. This Contraction and Skeletal Muscle contractile unit is similar to the contractile unit of skeletal Contraction muscle, but without the regularity of the skeletal muscle structure. In fact, the dense bodies of smooth muscle Although most skeletal muscles contract and relax rap- serve the same role as the Z disks in skeletal muscle. idly, most smooth muscle contraction is prolonged tonic Another difference is that most of the myosin filaments contraction, sometimes lasting hours or even days. have “side polar” cross-b ridges arranged so that the bridges Therefore, it is to be expected that both the physical and on one side hinge in one direction, and those on the other chemical characteristics of smooth muscle versus skeletal side hinge in the opposite direction. This configuration muscle contraction would differ. Some of the differences allows the myosin to pull an actin filament in one direction are noted in the following sections. 102 Chapter 8 Excitation and Contraction of Smooth Muscle Slow Cycling of the Myosin Cross-B ridges. The rapid- longed period of attachment of the myosin cross-b ridges ity of cycling of the myosin cross-b ridges in smooth mus- to the actin filaments. cle—that is, their attachment to actin, then release from the actin, and reattachment for the next cycle—is much Latch Mechanism Facilitates Prolonged Holding of slower than in skeletal muscle. The frequency is as little Contractions of Smooth Muscle. Once smooth muscle as 1/10 to 1/300 that in skeletal muscle. Yet, the fraction has developed full contraction, the amount of continu- of time that the cross- bridges remain attached to the ac- ing excitation can usually be reduced to far less than the tin filaments, which is a major factor that determines the initial level, even though the muscle maintains its full force of contraction, is believed to be greatly increased in force of contraction. Furthermore, the energy consumed smooth muscle. A possible reason for the slow cycling is to maintain contraction is often minuscule, sometimes that the cross- bridge heads have far less ATPase activ- as little as 1/300 of the energy required for comparable ity than in skeletal muscle; thus, degradation of the ATP sustained skeletal muscle contraction. This mechanism
