Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


far less ATPase activ- as little as 1/300 of the energy required for comparable ity than in skeletal muscle; thus, degradation of the ATP sustained skeletal muscle contraction. This mechanism is that energizes the movements of the cross- bridge heads called the latch mechanism. is greatly reduced, with corresponding slowing of the rate The importance of the latch mechanism is that it can of cycling. maintain prolonged tonic contraction in smooth muscle for hours, with little use of energy. Little continued excit- Low Energy Requirement to Sustain Smooth Mus- atory signal is required from nerve fibers or hormonal cle Contraction. Only 1/10 to 1/300 as much energy is sources. required to sustain the same tension of contraction in smooth muscle as in skeletal muscle. This, too, is believed Stress- Relaxation of Smooth Muscle. Another im- to result from the slow attachment and detachment cy- portant characteristic of smooth muscle, especially the cling of the cross- bridges, and because only one molecule visceral unitary type of smooth muscle of many hollow of ATP is required for each cycle, regardless of its dura- organs, is its ability to return to nearly its original force tion. of contraction seconds or minutes after it has been This low energy utilization by smooth muscle is impor- elongated or shortened. For example, a sudden increase tant to the overall energy economy of the body because in fluid volume in the urinary bladder, thus stretching organs such as the intestines, urinary bladder, gallbladder, the smooth muscle in the bladder wall, causes an im- and other viscera often maintain tonic muscle contraction mediate large increase in pressure in the bladder. How- almost indefinitely. ever, during about the next 15 to 60 seconds, despite continued stretch of the bladder wall, the pressure re- Slowness of Onset of Contraction and Relaxation turns almost exactly back to the original level. Then, of the Total Smooth Muscle Tissue. A typical smooth when the volume is increased by another step, the same muscle tissue begins to contract 50 to 100 milliseconds effect occurs again. after it is excited, reaches full contraction about 0.5 sec- Conversely, when the volume is suddenly decreased, ond later, and then declines in contractile force in another the pressure falls drastically at first but then rises in 1 to 2 seconds, giving a total contraction time of 1 to 3 another few seconds or minutes to or near the
