Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


falls drastically at first but then rises in 1 to 2 seconds, giving a total contraction time of 1 to 3 another few seconds or minutes to or near the original seconds. This is about 30 times as long as a single contrac- level. These phenomena are called stress- relaxation and tion of an average skeletal muscle fiber. However, because reverse stress- relaxation. Their importance is that except there are so many types of smooth muscle, contraction of for short periods, they allow a hollow organ to main- some types can be as short as 0.2 second or as long as 30 tain about the same amount of pressure inside its lumen seconds. despite sustained large changes in volume. The slow onset of contraction of smooth muscle, as well as its prolonged contraction, is caused by the slow- REGULATION OF CONTRACTION BY ness of attachment and detachment of the cross-b ridges CALCIUM IONS with the actin filaments. In addition, the initiation of con- traction in response to calcium ions is much slower than As is true for skeletal muscle, the initiating stimulus for in skeletal muscle, as will be discussed later. most smooth muscle contraction is an increase in intra- cellular calcium ions. This increase can be caused in dif- Maximum Force of Contraction Is Often Greater in ferent types of smooth muscle by nerve stimulation of Smooth Muscle Than in Skeletal Muscle. Despite the the smooth muscle fiber, hormonal stimulation, stretch of the relatively few myosin filaments in smooth muscle, and fiber, or even changes in the chemical environment of despite the slow cycling time of the cross- bridges, the the fiber. maximum force of contraction of smooth muscle is often Smooth muscle does not contain troponin, the regu- greater than that of skeletal muscle, as much as 4 to 6 kg/ latory protein that is activated by calcium ions to cause cm2 cross- sectional area for smooth muscle in compari- skeletal muscle contraction. Instead, smooth muscle con- son with 3 to 4 kilograms for skeletal muscle. This great traction is activated by an entirely different mechanism, force of smooth muscle contraction results from the pro- as described in the next section. 103 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Extracellular fluid Ca2+ Sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ Ca2+ CaM Caveolae Ca2+ CaM Inactive MLCK Active MLCK Sarcoplasmic ATP reticulum P P ADP + Inactive myosin Phosphorylated myosin Figure
