Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Nerve, and Muscle Extracellular fluid Ca2+ Sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ Ca2+ CaM Caveolae Ca2+ CaM Inactive MLCK Active MLCK Sarcoplasmic ATP reticulum P P ADP + Inactive myosin Phosphorylated myosin Figure 8-4 Sarcoplasmic tubules in a large smooth muscle fiber showing their relation to invaginations in the cell membrane called caveolae. Actin cycling of the myosin head with the actin filament does not occur. However, when the regulatory chain Muscle contraction is phosphorylated, the head has the capability of binding repetitively with the actin filament and pro- ceeding through the entire cycling process of inter- Figure 8-3 Intracellular calcium ion (Ca2+) concentration increases when Ca2+ enters the cell through calcium channels in the cell mem- mittent pulls, the same as what occurs for skeletal brane or is released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. The Ca2+ binds muscle, thus causing muscle contraction. to calmodulin (CaM) to form a Ca2+- CaM complex, which then acti- Source of Calcium Ions That Cause vates myosin light chain kinase (MLCK). The active MLCK phospho- rylates the myosin light chain, leading to attachment of the myosin Contraction head with the actin filament and contraction of the smooth muscle. ADP, Adenosine diphosphate; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; P, phos- Although the contractile process in smooth muscle, as in phate. skeletal muscle, is activated by calcium ions, the source of the calcium ions differs. An important difference is Calcium Ions Combine with Calmodulin to Cause Ac- that the sarcoplasmic reticulum, which provides virtu- tivation of Myosin Kinase and Phosphorylation of ally all the calcium ions for skeletal muscle contraction, is the Myosin Head. In place of troponin, smooth muscle only slightly developed in most smooth muscle. Instead, cells contain a large amount of another regulatory protein most of the calcium ions that cause contraction enter the called calmodulin (Figure 8-3). Although this protein is muscle cell from the extracellular fluid at the time of the similar to troponin, it is different in the manner in which it action potential or other stimulus. That is, the concentra- initiates contraction. Calmodulin initiates contraction by tion of calcium ions in the extracellular fluid is greater activating the myosin cross-b ridges. This activation and than 10−3 molar, in comparison with less than 10−7 molar subsequent contraction occur in the following sequence: inside the smooth muscle cell; this causes rapid diffusion 1. The calcium concentration in the cytosolic fluid of of the calcium ions into the cell
