Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


occur in the following sequence: inside the smooth muscle cell; this causes rapid diffusion 1. The calcium concentration in the cytosolic fluid of of the calcium ions into the cell from the extracellular the smooth muscle increases as a result of the influx fluid when the calcium channels open. The time required of calcium from the extracellular fluid through cal- for this diffusion to occur averages 200 to 300 millisec- cium channels and/or release of calcium from the onds and is called the latent period before contraction sarcoplasmic reticulum. begins. This latent period is about 50 times as great for 2. The calcium ions bind reversibly with calmodulin. smooth muscle as for skeletal muscle contraction. 3. The calmodulin-c alcium complex then joins with and activates myosin light chain kinase, a phospho- Role of the Smooth Muscle Sarcoplasmic Reticulum. rylating enzyme. Figure 8-4 shows a few slightly developed sarcoplasmic 4. One of the light chains of each myosin head, called tubules that lie near the cell membrane in some larger the regulatory chain, becomes phosphorylated in smooth muscle cells. Small invaginations of the cell mem- response to this myosin kinase. When this chain is brane, called caveolae, abut the surfaces of these tubules. not phosphorylated, the attachment- detachment The caveolae suggest a rudimentary analog of the trans- 104 Chapter 8 Excitation and Contraction of Smooth Muscle verse tubule system of skeletal muscle. When an action Ca2+ Ca2+ Na+ potential is transmitted into the caveolae, this is believed Extracellular fluid to excite calcium ion release from the abutting sarcoplas- ATP mic tubules in the same way that action potentials in skel- etal muscle transverse tubules cause release of calcium Sarcoplasmic reticulum ions from the skeletal muscle longitudinal sarcoplasmic Na+ tubules. In general, the more extensive the sarcoplasmic Ca2+ ATP Ca2+ reticulum in the smooth muscle fiber, the more rapidly it contracts. CaM Smooth Muscle Contraction Is Dependent on Extra- cellular Calcium Ion Concentration. Whereas chang- Ca2+ CaM ing the extracellular fluid calcium ion concentration from normal has little effect on the force of contraction of Myosin skeletal muscle, this is not true for most smooth muscle. P P phosphatase When the extracellular fluid calcium ion concentration P decreases to about 1/3 to 1/10 normal, smooth muscle P contraction usually ceases. Therefore, the force of con- traction of smooth muscle is usually highly dependent on Inactive myosin Phosphorylated myosin decreases the extracellular fluid
