Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1/10 normal, smooth muscle P contraction usually ceases. Therefore, the force of con- traction of smooth muscle is usually highly dependent on Inactive myosin Phosphorylated myosin decreases the extracellular fluid calcium ion concentration. A Calcium Pump Is Required to Cause Smooth Muscle Relaxation. To cause relaxation of smooth muscle after it Muscle has contracted, the calcium ions must be removed from relaxation the intracellular fluids. This removal is achieved by a cal- cium pump that pumps calcium ions out of the smooth Figure 8-5 Relaxation of smooth muscle occurs when the calcium muscle fiber back into the extracellular fluid, or into a ion (Ca2+) concentration decreases below a critical level as Ca2+ is sarcoplasmic reticulum, if it is present (Figure 8-5). This pumped out of the cell or into the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Ca2+ is pump requires ATP and is slow acting in comparison with then released from calmodulin (CaM), and myosin phosphatase removes phosphate from the myosin light chain, causing detach- the fast- acting sarcoplasmic reticulum pump in skeletal ment of the myosin head from the actin filament and relaxation of muscle. Therefore, a single smooth muscle contraction of- the smooth muscle. ADP, Adenosine diphosphate; ATP, adenosine ten lasts for seconds rather than hundredths to tenths of a triphosphate; Na+, sodium; P, phosphate. second, as occurs for skeletal muscle. Myosin Phosphatase Is Important in Cessation of Con- When the myosin kinase and myosin phosphatase traction. Relaxation of the smooth muscle occurs when enzymes are both strongly activated, the cycling frequency the calcium channels close and the calcium pump trans- of the myosin heads and the velocity of contraction are ports calcium ions out of the cytosolic fluid of the cell. great. Then, as activation of the enzymes decreases, the When the calcium ion concentration falls below a critical cycling frequency decreases but, at the same time, the level, the aforementioned processes automatically reverse, deactivation of these enzymes allows the myosin heads to except for the phosphorylation of the myosin head. Re- remain attached to the actin filament for a longer and lon- versal of this situation requires another enzyme, myosin ger proportion of the cycling period. Therefore, the num- phosphatase (see Figure 8-5), located in the cytosol of the ber of heads attached to the actin filament at any given smooth muscle cell, which splits the phosphate from the time remains large. Because the number of heads attached regulatory light
