Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of heads attached to the actin filament at any given smooth muscle cell, which splits the phosphate from the time remains large. Because the number of heads attached regulatory light chain. Then the cycling stops, and contrac- to the actin determines the static force of contraction, ten- tion ceases. The time required for the relaxation of muscle sion is maintained, or latched, yet little energy is used by contraction, therefore, is determined to a great extent by the muscle because ATP is not degraded to ADP, except the amount of active myosin phosphatase in the cell. on the rare occasion when a head detaches. Possible Mechanism for Regulating the Latch Phe- NERVOUS AND HORMONAL CONTROL nomenon. Because of the importance of the latch phe- OF SMOOTH MUSCLE CONTRACTION nomenon in smooth muscle, and because this phenom- enon allows for the long- term maintenance of tone in Although skeletal muscle fibers are stimulated exclusively many smooth muscle organs without much expenditure by the nervous system, smooth muscle can be stimulated of energy, many attempts have been made to explain it. to contract by nervous signals, hormonal stimulation, Among the many mechanisms that have been postulated, stretch of the muscle, and several other ways. The prin- one of the simplest is the following. cipal reason for the difference is that the smooth muscle 105 UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle Visceral most of the fine terminal axons have multiple varicosi- Autonomic neuron ties distributed along their axes. At these points, the varicosity Schwann cells that envelop the axons are interrupted so Neurotransmitter that transmitter substance can be secreted through the Receptor walls of the varicosities. In the varicosities are vesicles similar to those in the skeletal muscle end plate that con- Gap junction tain transmitter substance. However, in contrast to the vesicles of skeletal muscle junctions, which always con- tain acetylcholine, the vesicles of the autonomic nerve Multi-unit fiber endings contain acetylcholine in some fibers and norepinephrine in others and occasionally other sub- stances as well. In a few cases, particularly in the multi- unit type of smooth muscle, the varicosities are separated from the muscle cell membrane by as little as 20 to 30 nanome- ters—the same width as the synaptic cleft that is found Autonomic neuron in the skeletal muscle junction. These are called contact varicosity junctions, and they function in much the same way as Figure
