Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as the synaptic cleft that is found Autonomic neuron in the skeletal muscle junction. These are called contact varicosity junctions, and they function in much the same way as Figure 8-6 Innervation of smooth muscle by autonomic nerve fib- the skeletal muscle neuromuscular junction. The rapidity ers that branch diffusely and secrete neurotransmitter from multiple of contraction of these smooth muscle fibers is consid- varicosities. Unitary (visceral) smooth muscle cells are connected by erably faster than that of fibers stimulated by the diffuse gap junctions so that depolarization can rapidly spread from one cell to another, permitting the muscle cells to contract as a single unit. In junctions. multi- unit smooth muscle, each cell is stimulated independently by a neurotransmitter released from closely associated autonomic nerve Excitatory and Inhibitory Transmitter Substances Se- varicosities. creted at the Smooth Muscle Neuromuscular Junc- tion. The most important transmitter substances secret- membrane contains many types of receptor proteins that ed by the autonomic nerves innervating smooth muscle can initiate the contractile process. Still other recep- are acetylcholine and norepinephrine, but they are never tor proteins inhibit smooth muscle contraction, which secreted by the same nerve fibers. Acetylcholine is an ex- is another difference from skeletal muscle. Therefore, in citatory transmitter substance for smooth muscle fibers this section, we discuss nervous control of smooth mus- in some organs but an inhibitory transmitter for smooth cle contraction, followed by hormonal control and other muscle in other organs. When acetylcholine excites a means of control. muscle fiber, norepinephrine ordinarily inhibits it. Con- versely, when acetylcholine inhibits a fiber, norepineph- NEUROMUSCULAR JUNCTIONS OF rine usually excites it. SMOOTH MUSCLE Why are these responses different? The answer is that both acetylcholine and norepinephrine excite or inhibit Physiologic Anatomy of Smooth Muscle Neuromus- smooth muscle by first binding with a receptor protein cular Junctions. Neuromuscular junctions of the highly on the surface of the muscle cell membrane. Some of the structured type found on skeletal muscle fibers do not oc- receptor proteins are excitatory receptors, whereas others cur in smooth muscle. Instead, the autonomic nerve fibers are inhibitory receptors. Thus, the type of receptor deter- that innervate smooth muscle generally branch diffusely mines whether the smooth muscle is inhibited or excited on top of a sheet of muscle fibers, as shown in Figure 8-6. and also determines which of the two transmitters, ace- In most cases, these fibers do not
