Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


excited on top of a sheet of muscle fibers, as shown in Figure 8-6. and also determines which of the two transmitters, ace- In most cases, these fibers do not make direct contact with tylcholine or norepinephrine, is effective in causing the the smooth muscle fiber cell membranes but instead form excitation or inhibition. These receptors are discussed diffuse junctions that secrete their transmitter substance in more detail in Chapter 61 in regard to function of the into the matrix coating of the smooth muscle, often a few autonomic nervous system. nanometers to a few micrometers away from the muscle cells. The transmitter substance then diffuses to the cells. MEMBRANE POTENTIALS AND ACTION Furthermore, where there are many layers of muscle cells, POTENTIALS IN SMOOTH MUSCLE the nerve fibers often innervate only the outer layer. Mus- cle excitation travels from this outer layer to the inner lay- Membrane Potentials in Smooth Muscle. The quanti- ers by action potential conduction in the muscle mass or tative voltage of the membrane potential of smooth mus- by additional diffusion of the transmitter substance. cle depends on the momentary condition of the muscle. The axons that innervate smooth muscle fibers do not In the normal resting state, the intracellular potential is have the typical branching end feet of the type found in usually about −50 to −60 millivolts, which is about 30 mil- the motor end plate on skeletal muscle fibers. Instead, livolts less negative than in skeletal muscle. 106 Chapter 8 Excitation and Contraction of Smooth Muscle some conditions, and certain types of vascular smooth 0 muscle. Also, this is the type of action potential seen in cardiac muscle fibers that have a prolonged period of con- traction, as discussed in Chapters 9 and 10. –20 Calcium Channels Are Important in Generating the –40 Smooth Muscle Action Potential. The smooth muscle cell membrane has far more voltage-g ated calcium chan- nels than skeletal muscle but few voltage- gated sodium –60 Slow waves channels. Therefore, sodium does not participate much in the generation of the action potential in most smooth muscle. Instead, the flow of calcium ions to the interior 0 50 100 0 10 20 30 A Milliseconds B Seconds of the fiber is mainly responsible for the action potential. This flow occurs in the same self-r egenerative way as oc- curs for the sodium channels in nerve fibers and in skel- 0
