Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is mainly responsible for the action potential. This flow occurs in the same self-r egenerative way as oc- curs for the sodium channels in nerve fibers and in skel- 0 etal muscle fibers. However, the calcium channels open many times more slowly than sodium channels, and they –25 also remain open much longer. These characteristics largely account for the prolonged plateau action poten- –50 tials of some smooth muscle fibers. Another important feature of calcium ion entry into 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 C the cells during the action potential is that the calcium Seconds ions act directly on the smooth muscle contractile mech- Figure 8-7 A, Typical smooth muscle action potential (spike poten- anism to cause contraction. Thus, the calcium performs tial) elicited by an external stimulus. B, Repetitive spike potentials, elicited by slow rhythmical electrical waves that occur spontaneously two tasks at once. in the smooth muscle of the intestinal wall. C, Action potential with a plateau, recorded from a smooth muscle fiber of the uterus. Slow Wave Potentials in Unitary Smooth Muscle Can Lead to Spontaneous Generation of Action Poten- Action Potentials in Unitary Smooth Muscle. Action tials. Some smooth muscle is self- excitatory—that is, ac- potentials occur in unitary smooth muscle (e.g., visceral tion potentials arise within the smooth muscle cells with- muscle) in the same way that they occur in skeletal mus- out an extrinsic stimulus. This activity is often associated cle. They do not normally occur in most multi- unit types with a basic slow wave rhythm of the membrane potential. of smooth muscle, as discussed in a subsequent section. A typical slow wave in a visceral smooth muscle of the gut The action potentials of visceral smooth muscle occur is shown in Figure 8-7B. The slow wave is not the action in one of two forms—(1) spike potentials or (2) action potential. That is, it is not a self-r egenerative process that potentials with plateaus. spreads progressively over the membranes of the muscle fibers. Instead, it is a local property of the smooth muscle Spike Potentials. Typical spike action potentials, such fibers that make up the muscle mass. as those seen in skeletal muscle, occur in most types of The cause of the slow wave rhythm is unknown. One unitary smooth muscle. The duration of this type of ac- suggestion is that the slow waves are caused by waxing tion potential is 10
