Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


slow wave rhythm is unknown. One unitary smooth muscle. The duration of this type of ac- suggestion is that the slow waves are caused by waxing tion potential is 10 to 50 milliseconds, as shown in Fig- and waning of the pumping of positive ions (presumably ure 8-7A. Such action potentials can be elicited in many sodium ions) outward through the muscle fiber mem- ways—for example, by electrical stimulation, by the ac- brane. That is, the membrane potential becomes more tion of hormones on the smooth muscle, by the action of negative when sodium is pumped rapidly and less nega- transmitter substances from nerve fibers, by stretch, or tive when the sodium pump becomes less active. Another as a result of spontaneous generation in the muscle fiber suggestion is that the conductances of the ion channels itself, as discussed subsequently. increase and decrease rhythmically. The importance of the slow waves is that when they Action Potentials with Plateaus. Figure 8-7C shows a are strong enough, they can initiate action potentials. smooth muscle action potential with a plateau. The onset The slow waves themselves cannot cause muscle contrac- of this action potential is similar to that of the typical spike tion. However, when the peak of the negative slow wave potential. However, instead of rapid repolarization of the potential inside the cell membrane rises in the positive muscle fiber membrane, the repolarization is delayed for direction, from −60 to about −35 millivolts (the approxi- several hundred to as much as 1000 milliseconds (1 sec- mate threshold for eliciting action potentials in most vis- ond). The importance of the plateau is that it can account ceral smooth muscle), an action potential develops and for the prolonged contraction that occurs in some types spreads over the muscle mass and contraction occurs. of smooth muscle, such as the ureter, the uterus under Figure 8-7B demonstrates this effect, showing that at 107 stlovilliM stlovilliM UNIT II UNIT II Membrane Physiology, Nerve, and Muscle each peak of the slow wave, one or more action poten- tle or no nervous supply. Yet, the smooth muscle is highly tials occur. These repetitive sequences of action potentials contractile, responding rapidly to changes in local chemi- elicit rhythmical contraction of the smooth muscle mass. cal conditions in the surrounding interstitial fluid and to Therefore, the slow waves are called pacemaker waves. In stretch caused by changes in blood pressure. Chapter
