Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the smooth muscle mass. cal conditions in the surrounding interstitial fluid and to Therefore, the slow waves are called pacemaker waves. In stretch caused by changes in blood pressure. Chapter 63, we see that this type of pacemaker activity In the normal resting state, many of these small blood controls the rhythmical contractions of the gut. vessels remain contracted. However, when extra blood flow to the tissue is necessary, multiple factors can relax Excitation of Visceral Smooth Muscle by Muscle the vessel wall, thus allowing for increased flow. In this Stretch. When visceral (unitary) smooth muscle is way, a powerful local feedback control system controls the stretched sufficiently, spontaneous action potentials are blood flow to the local tissue area. Some of the specific usually generated. They result from a combination of the control factors are as follows: following: (1) the normal slow wave potentials; and (2) a 1. Lack of oxygen in the local tissues causes smooth decrease in overall negativity of the membrane potential muscle relaxation and, therefore, vasodilation. caused by the stretch. This response to stretch allows the 2. Excess carbon dioxide causes vasodilation. gut wall, when excessively stretched, to contract auto- 3. Increased hydrogen ion concentration causes vaso- matically and rhythmically. For example, when the gut is dilation. overfilled by intestinal contents, local automatic contrac- Adenosine, lactic acid, increased potassium ions, nitric tions often set up peristaltic waves that move the contents oxide, and increased body temperature can all cause away from the overfilled intestine, usually in the direction local vasodilation. Decreased blood pressure, by caus- of the anus. ing decreased stretch of the vascular smooth muscle, also causes these small blood vessels to dilate. DEPOLARIZATION OF MULTI-U NIT SMOOTH Effects of Hormones on Smooth Muscle Contraction. MUSCLE WITHOUT ACTION POTENTIALS Many circulating hormones in the blood affect smooth The smooth muscle fibers of multi- unit smooth muscle muscle contraction to some degree, and some have pro- (e.g., the muscle of the iris of the eye or the piloerector found effects. Among the more important of these hor- muscle of each hair) normally contract mainly in response mones are norepinephrine, epinephrine, angiotensin II, en- to nerve stimuli. The nerve endings secrete acetylcholine in dothelin, vasopressin, oxytocin, serotonin, and histamine. the case of some multi- unit smooth muscles and norepi- A hormone causes contraction of a smooth muscle nephrine in the case of others. In both cases, the
