Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and histamine. the case of some multi- unit smooth muscles and norepi- A hormone causes contraction of a smooth muscle nephrine in the case of others. In both cases, the transmit- when the muscle cell membrane contains hormone- gated ter substances cause depolarization of the smooth muscle excitatory receptors for the respective hormone. Con- membrane, and this depolarization in turn elicits contrac- versely, the hormone causes inhibition if the membrane tion. Action potentials usually do not develop because the contains inhibitory receptors for the hormone rather than fibers are too small to generate an action potential. (When excitatory receptors. action potentials are elicited in visceral unitary smooth muscle, 30 to 40 smooth muscle fibers must depolarize Mechanisms of Smooth Muscle Excitation or Inhibi- simultaneously before a self- propagating action potential tion by Hormones or Local Tissue Factors. Some hor- ensues.) However, in small smooth muscle cells, even with- mone receptors in the smooth muscle membrane open out an action potential, the local depolarization (called the sodium or calcium ion channels and depolarize the mem- junctional potential) caused by the nerve transmitter sub- brane, the same as after nerve stimulation. Sometimes, stance spreads “electrotonically” over the entire fiber and is action potentials result, or action potentials that are al- all that is necessary to cause muscle contraction. ready occurring may be enhanced. In other cases, depo- larization occurs without action potentials, and this depo- Local Tissue Factors and Hormones larization allows for calcium ion entry into the cell, which Can Cause Smooth Muscle Contraction promotes the contraction. Without Action Potentials Inhibition, in contrast, occurs when the hormone (or Approximately half of all smooth muscle contraction is other tissue factor) closes the sodium and calcium chan- likely initiated by stimulatory factors acting directly on nels to prevent entry of these positive ions; inhibition the smooth muscle contractile machinery and without also occurs if the normally closed potassium channels are action potentials. Two types of non- nervous and nonac- opened, allowing positive potassium ions to diffuse out of tion potential stimulating factors often involved are (1) the cell. Both these actions increase the degree of negativ- local tissue chemical factors and (2) various hormones. ity inside the muscle cell, a state called hyperpolarization, which strongly inhibits muscle contraction. Smooth Muscle Contraction in Response to Local Tis- Sometimes, smooth muscle contraction or inhibition is sue Chemical Factors. In Chapter 17, we discuss control initiated
