Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


which strongly inhibits muscle contraction. Smooth Muscle Contraction in Response to Local Tis- Sometimes, smooth muscle contraction or inhibition is sue Chemical Factors. In Chapter 17, we discuss control initiated by hormones without directly causing any change of contraction of the arterioles, meta-a rterioles, and pre- in the membrane potential. In these cases, the hormone capillary sphincters. The smallest of these vessels have lit- may activate a membrane receptor that does not open 108 Chapter 8 Excitation and Contraction of Smooth Muscle any ion channels but, instead, causes an internal change Brozovich FV, Nicholson CJ, Degen CV, Gao YZ, Aggarwal M, Mor- gan KG: Mechanisms of vascular smooth muscle contraction and in the muscle fiber, such as release of calcium ions from the basis for pharmacologic treatment of smooth muscle disorders. the intracellular sarcoplasmic reticulum; the calcium then Pharmacol Rev 68:476, 2016. induces contraction. To inhibit contraction, other recep- Burnstock G. Purinergic signaling in the cardiovascular system. Circ tor mechanisms are known to activate the enzyme ade- Res 120:207, 2017. nylate cyclase or guanylate cyclase in the cell membrane. Cheng H, Lederer WJ: Calcium sparks. Physiol Rev 88:1491, 2008. Davis MJ: Perspective: physiological role(s) of the vascular myogenic The portions of the receptors that protrude to the interior response. Microcirculation 19:99, 2012. of the cells are coupled to these enzymes, causing the for- Dopico AM, Bukiya AN, Jaggar JH. Calcium- and voltage-g ated BK mation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) or channels in vascular smooth muscle. Pflugers Arch 470:1271, cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), so-c alled sec- 2018. ond messengers. cAMP or cGMP has many effects, one Dora KA. Endothelial-s mooth muscle cell interactions in the regulation of vascular tone in skeletal muscle. Microcirculation 23:626, 2016. of which is to change the degree of phosphorylation of Drummond HA, Grifoni SC, Jernigan NL: A new trick for an old several enzymes that indirectly inhibit contraction. The dogma: ENaC proteins as mechanotransducers in vascular smooth pump that moves calcium ions from the sarcoplasm into muscle. Physiology (Bethesda) 23:23, 2008. the sarcoplasmic reticulum is activated, as well as the cell Hill MA, Meininger GA. Small artery mechanobiology: roles of cellular membrane pump that moves calcium ions out of the cell; and non- cellular elements. Microcirculation 23:611, 2016. Huizinga JD, Lammers WJ: Gut peristalsis is governed by a multitude these effects reduce the calcium ion concentration in the of cooperating mechanisms. Am J Physiol Gastrointest
