Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


manner as in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, cardiac mus- and a left heart that pumps blood through the systemic cle has typical myofibrils that contain actin and myosin circulation that provides blood flow to the other organs filaments almost identical to those found in skeletal mus- and tissues of the body. Each of these is a pulsatile, two- cle; these filaments lie side by side and slide during con- chamber pump composed of an atrium and a ventricle. traction in the same manner as occurs in skeletal muscle Each atrium is a weak primer pump for the ventricle, (see Chapter 6). In other ways, however, cardiac muscle is helping to move blood into the ventricle. The ventricles quite different from skeletal muscle, as we shall see. then supply the main pumping force that propels the Left Ventricular Rotation (Twist) Aids Left Ventricular blood either (1) through the pulmonary circulation by the Ejection and Relaxation. The left ventricle is organized right ventricle or (2) through the systemic circulation by into complex muscle fiber layers that run in different di- the left ventricle. The heart is surrounded by a two- layer rections and allow the heart to contract in a twisting mo- sac called the pericardium, which protects the heart and tion during systole. The subepicardial (outer) layer spirals holds it in place. in a leftward direction, and the subendocardial (inner) Special mechanisms in the heart cause a continuing layer spirals in the opposite direction (rightward), causing succession of contractions called cardiac rhythmicity, clockwise rotation of the apex of the heart and counter- transmitting action potentials throughout the cardiac clockwise rotation of the base of the left ventricle (Figure muscle to cause the heart’s rhythmical beat. This rhyth- 9- 3). This causes a wringing motion of the left ventricle, mical control system is discussed in Chapter 10. In this pulling the base downward toward the apex during sys- chapter, we explain how the heart operates as a pump, tole (contraction). At the end of systole, the left ventricle beginning with the special features of cardiac muscle is similar to a loaded spring and recoils or untwists during (Video 9- 1). diastole (relaxation) to allow blood to enter the pumping chambers rapidly. PHYSIOLOGY OF CARDIAC MUSCLE Cardiac Muscle Is a Syncytium. The dark areas crossing The heart is composed of three major types of cardiac the cardiac muscle fibers in Figure 9- 2 are
