Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


CARDIAC MUSCLE Cardiac Muscle Is a Syncytium. The dark areas crossing The heart is composed of three major types of cardiac the cardiac muscle fibers in Figure 9- 2 are called interca- muscle—atrial muscle, ventricular muscle, and special- lated discs; they are actually cell membranes that separate ized excitatory and conductive muscle fibers. The atrial individual cardiac muscle cells from one another. That is, and ventricular types of muscle contract in much the cardiac muscle fibers are made up of many individual cells same way as skeletal muscle, except that the duration of connected in series and in parallel with one another. contraction is much longer. The specialized excitatory At each intercalated disc, the cell membranes fuse with and conductive fibers of the heart, however, contract fee- one another to form permeable communicating junctions bly because they contain few contractile fibrils; instead, (gap junctions) that allow rapid diffusion of ions. There- they exhibit automatic rhythmical electrical discharge in fore, from a functional point of view, ions move with ease the form of action potentials or conduction of the action in the intracellular fluid along the longitudinal axes of the potentials through the heart, providing an excitatory sys- cardiac muscle fibers so that action potentials travel easily tem that controls the rhythmical beating of the heart. from one cardiac muscle cell to the next, past the interca- lated discs. Thus, cardiac muscle is a syncytium of many CARDIAC MUSCLE ANATOMY heart muscle cells in which the cardiac cells are so inter- connected that when one cell becomes excited, the action Figure 9- 2 shows the cardiac muscle histology, demon- potential rapidly spreads to all of them. strating cardiac muscle fibers arranged in a latticework, The heart actually is composed of two syncytia; the with the fibers dividing, recombining, and then spreading atrial syncytium, which constitutes the walls of the two 113 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart HEAD AND UPPER EXTREMITY Endocardial fibers Base Aorta Pulmonary artery Superior Lungs vena cava Right atrium Pulmonary veins Pulmonary Left atrium valve Mitral valve Epicardial fibers Apex Tricuspid valve Aortic valve A B Right ventricle Left Figure 9- 3. A, The left ventricular inner subendocardial fibers (laven- ventricle der shade) run obliquely to the outer subepicardial fibers (red shade). Inferior vena cava B, The subepicardial muscle fibers are wrapped in a left- handed helix and subendocardial fibers are arranged in a right- handed helix.
