Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


outer subepicardial fibers (red shade). Inferior vena cava B, The subepicardial muscle fibers are wrapped in a left- handed helix and subendocardial fibers are arranged in a right- handed helix. TRUNK AND Plateau LOWER EXTREMITY +20 0 Endocardium –20 Myocardium –40 –60 Epicardium –80 Pericardium Pericardial space –100 Purkinje fiber Parietal pericardium Plateau Fibrous pericardium +20 Figure 9- 1. Structure of the heart and course of blood flow through 0 the heart chambers and heart valves. The heart consists of multiple –20 layers, including the inner endocardium, myocardium, and more out- –40 ward epicardium and pericardium layers. –60 –80 –100 Ventricular muscle 0 1 2 3 4 Seconds Figure 9- 4. Rhythmical action potentials (in millivolts) from a Purkin- je fiber and from a ventricular muscle fiber, recorded by microelec- trodes. Intercalated discs fibers several millimeters in diameter that is discussed in Chapter 10. This division of the muscle of the heart into two func- tional syncytia allows the atria to contract a short time ahead of ventricular contraction, which is important for the effectiveness of heart pumping. Figure 9- 2. Syncytial interconnecting nature of cardiac muscle fibers. ACTION POTENTIALS IN CARDIAC MUSCLE atria; and the ventricular syncytium, which constitutes the walls of the two ventricles. The atria are separated The action potential recorded in a ventricular muscle from the ventricles by fibrous tissue that surrounds the fiber, shown in Figure 9- 4, averages about 105 millivolts, atrioventricular (A- V) valvular openings between the which means that the intracellular potential rises from a atria and ventricles. Normally, potentials are not con- very negative value between beats, about −85 millivolts, ducted from the atrial syncytium into the ventricular to a slightly positive value, about +20 millivolts, during syncytium directly through this fibrous tissue. Instead, each beat. After the initial spike, the membrane remains they are only conducted by way of a specialized conduc- depolarized for about 0.2 second, exhibiting a plateau, fol- tive system called the A-V bundle, a bundle of conductive lowed at the end of the plateau by abrupt repolarization. 114 stlovilliM Chapter 9 Cardiac Muscle: The Heart as a Pump and Function of the Heart Valves The presence of this plateau in the action potential causes ventricular contraction to last as much as 15 times longer 20 1 in cardiac muscle than in skeletal muscle. 2 0 What Causes the Long Action Potential and Plateau in Cardiac Muscle?
