Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to last as much as 15 times longer 20 1 in cardiac muscle than in skeletal muscle. 2 0 What Causes the Long Action Potential and Plateau in Cardiac Muscle? At least two major differences between -20 the membrane properties of cardiac and skeletal muscle ac- count for the prolonged action potential and the plateau in -40 0 3 cardiac muscle. First, the action potential of skeletal muscle -60 is caused almost entirely by the sudden opening of large numbers of fast sodium channels that allow tremendous -80 numbers of sodium ions to enter the skeletal muscle fiber 4 4 from the extracellular fluid. These channels are called fast -100 channels because they remain open for only a few thou- 0 100 200 300 sandths of a second and then abruptly close. At the end of Time (milliseconds) this closure, repolarization occurs, and the action potential is over within about another thousandth of a second. In cardiac muscle, the action potential is caused by Outward iK+ opening of two types of channels: (1) the same voltage- activated fast sodium channels as those in skeletal muscle; Ionic currents and (2) another entirely different population of L- type calcium channels (slow calcium channels), which are also Inward iCa2+ called calcium- sodium channels. This second population of channels differs from the fast sodium channels in that they are slower to open and, even more importantly, remain iNa+ open for several tenths of a second. During this time, a large quantity of both calcium and sodium ions flows through Figure 9- 5. Phases of action potential of cardiac ventricular muscle cell and associated ionic currents for sodium (iNa+), calcium (iCa2+), these channels to the interior of the cardiac muscle fiber, and potassium (iK+). and this activity maintains a prolonged period of depolar- ization, causing the plateau in the action potential. Fur- thermore, the calcium ions that enter during this plateau Phase 0 (Depolarization): Fast Sodium Channels phase activate the muscle contractile process, whereas the Open. When the cardiac cell is stimulated and depolar- calcium ions that cause skeletal muscle contraction are izes, the membrane potential becomes more positive. derived from the intracellular sarcoplasmic reticulum. Voltage- gated sodium channels (fast sodium channels) The second major functional difference between car- open and permit sodium to rapidly flow into the cell and diac muscle and skeletal muscle that helps account for depolarize it. The membrane potential reaches
