Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


functional difference between car- open and permit sodium to rapidly flow into the cell and diac muscle and skeletal muscle that helps account for depolarize it. The membrane potential reaches about +20 both the prolonged action potential and its plateau is that millivolts before the sodium channels close. immediately after the onset of the action potential, the Phase 1 (Initial Repolarization): Fast Sodium Chan- permeability of the cardiac muscle membrane for potas- nels Close. The sodium channels close, the cell begins to sium ions decreases about fivefold, an effect that does not repolarize, and potassium ions leave the cell through open occur in skeletal muscle. This decreased potassium perme- potassium channels. ability may result from the excess calcium influx through Phase 2 (Plateau): Calcium Channels Open and Fast the calcium channels just noted. Regardless of the cause, Potassium Channels Close. A brief initial repolarization the decreased potassium permeability greatly decreases occurs and the action potential then plateaus as a result the efflux of positively charged potassium ions during the of increased calcium ion permeability and decreased po- action potential plateau and thereby prevents early return tassium ion permeability. The voltage-g ated calcium ion of the action potential voltage to its resting level. When the channels open slowly during phases 1 and 0, and calcium slow calcium- sodium channels do close at the end of 0.2 enters the cell. Potassium channels then close, and the to 0.3 second, and the influx of calcium and sodium ions combination of decreased potassium ion efflux and in- ceases, the membrane permeability for potassium ions also creased calcium ion influx causes the action potential to increases rapidly. This rapid loss of potassium from the plateau. fiber immediately returns the membrane potential to its Phase 3 (Rapid Repolarization): Calcium Channels resting level, thus ending the action potential. Close and Slow Potassium Channels Open. The closure of calcium ion channels and increased potassium ion Phases of Cardiac Muscle Action Potential. Figure 9- 5 permeability, permitting potassium ions to exit the cell summarizes the phases of the action potential in cardiac rapidly, ends the plateau and returns the cell membrane muscle and the ion flows that occur during each phase. potential to its resting level. 115 )stlovillim( laitnetop enarbmeM UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Refractory period discussed for skeletal muscle in Chapter 7. Again, there Relative refractory are differences in this mechanism in cardiac muscle that period
