Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


enarbmeM UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Refractory period discussed for skeletal muscle in Chapter 7. Again, there Relative refractory are differences in this mechanism in cardiac muscle that period Later premature have important effects on the characteristics of heart contraction Early premature muscle contraction. contraction As is true for skeletal muscle, when an action poten- tial passes over the cardiac muscle membrane, the action potential spreads to the interior of the cardiac muscle fiber along the membranes of the transverse (T) tubules. The T tubule action potentials then act on the membranes of the longitudinal sarcoplasmic tubules to cause release of calcium ions into the muscle sarcoplasm from the sar- 0 1 2 3 coplasmic reticulum. In another few thousandths of a Seconds second, these calcium ions diffuse into the myofibrils and Figure 9- 6. Force of ventricular heart muscle contraction, showing catalyze the chemical reactions that promote sliding of also the duration of the refractory period and relative refractory pe- the actin and myosin filaments along one another, which riod, plus the effect of premature contraction. Note that premature contractions do not cause wave summation, as occurs in skeletal produces the muscle contraction. muscle. Thus far, this mechanism of excitation-c ontraction coupling is the same as that for skeletal muscle, but there Phase 4 (Resting Membrane Potential):. This averages is a second effect that is quite different. In addition to about−80 to −90 millivolts. the calcium ions that are released into the sarcoplasm from the cisternae of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, cal- Velocity of Signal Conduction in Cardiac Muscle. The cium ions also diffuse into the sarcoplasm from the T velocity of conduction of the excitatory action potential tubules at the time of the action potential, which opens signal along both atrial and ventricular muscle fibers is voltage- dependent calcium channels in the membrane of about 0.3 to 0.5 m/sec, or about 1/250 the velocity in very the T tubule (Figure 9- 7). Calcium entering the cell then large nerve fibers and about 1/10 the velocity in skeletal activates calcium release channels, also called ryanodine muscle fibers. The velocity of conduction in the special- receptor channels, in the sarcoplasmic reticulum mem- ized heart conductive system—in the Purkinje fibers—is brane, triggering the release of calcium into the sarco- as high as 4 m/sec in most parts of the system, allowing plasm. Calcium ions in the sarcoplasm then interact with rapid
