Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


triggering the release of calcium into the sarco- as high as 4 m/sec in most parts of the system, allowing plasm. Calcium ions in the sarcoplasm then interact with rapid conduction of the excitatory signal to the different troponin to initiate cross- bridge formation and contrac- parts of the heart, as explained in Chapter 10. tion by the same basic mechanism as that described for skeletal muscle in Chapter 6. Refractory Period of Cardiac Muscle. Cardiac muscle, Without the calcium from the T tubules, the like all excitable tissue, is refractory to restimulation dur- strength of cardiac muscle contraction would be ing the action potential. Therefore, the refractory period reduced considerably because the sarcoplasmic reticu- of the heart is the interval of time, as shown to the left in lum of cardiac muscle is less well developed than that Figure 9- 6, during which a normal cardiac impulse can- of skeletal muscle and does not store enough calcium not re- excite an already excited area of cardiac muscle. to provide full contraction. The T tubules of cardiac The normal refractory period of the ventricle is 0.25 to muscle, however, have a diameter five times as great 0.30 second, which is about the duration of the prolonged as that of the skeletal muscle tubules, which means a plateau action potential. There is an additional relative volume 25 times as great. Also, inside the T tubules is refractory period of about 0.05 second during which the a large quantity of mucopolysaccharides that are elec- muscle is more difficult to excite than normal but can be tronegatively charged and bind an abundant store of excited by a very strong excitatory signal, as demonstrated calcium ions, keeping them available for diffusion to by the early premature contraction in the second example the interior of the cardiac muscle fiber when a T tubule of Figure 9- 6. The refractory period of atrial muscle is action potential appears. much shorter than that for the ventricles (about 0.15 sec- The strength of contraction of cardiac muscle depends ond for the atria compared with 0.25 to 0.30 second for to a great extent on the concentration of calcium ions in the ventricles). the extracellular fluids. In fact, a heart placed in a calcium- free solution will quickly stop beating. The reason for this EXCITATION- CONTRACTION COUPLING— response is that the openings of the T tubules pass directly FUNCTION
