Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


heart placed in a calcium- free solution will quickly stop beating. The reason for this EXCITATION- CONTRACTION COUPLING— response is that the openings of the T tubules pass directly FUNCTION OF CALCIUM IONS AND THE through the cardiac muscle cell membrane into the extra- TRANSVERSE TUBULES cellular spaces surrounding the cells, allowing the same extracellular fluid that is in the cardiac muscle intersti- The term excitation- contraction coupling refers to the tium to percolate through the T tubules. Consequently, mechanism whereby the action potential causes the the quantity of calcium ions in the T tubule system (i.e., myofibrils of muscle to contract. This mechanism was the availability of calcium ions to cause cardiac muscle 116 noitcartnoc fo ecroF Chapter 9 Cardiac Muscle: The Heart as a Pump and Function of the Heart Valves EExxttrraacceelllluullaarr fflluuiidd CCaa22++ CCaa22++ NNaa++ KK++ SSaarrccoolleemmmmaa ATP CCaa22++ NNaa++ CCyyttooppllaassmm SSaarrccooppllaassmmiicc SSaarrccooppllaassmmiicc rreettiiccuulluumm LL--ttyyppee rreettiiccuulluumm CCaa22++ CCaa22++ cchhaannnneell CCaa22++ RRyyRR ssttoorreess CCaa22++ TT TTuubbuullee ATP ssppaarrkk CCaa22++ SSEERRCCAA22 CCaa22++ ssiiggnnaall CCaa22++ Contraction rreellaaxxaattiioonn Figure 9- 7. Mechanisms of excitation-c ontraction coupling and relaxation in cardiac muscle. ATP, Adenosine triphosphate. RyR, ryanodine receptor Ca2+ release channel; SERCA, sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+- ATPase contraction) depends to a great extent on the extracellular and continues to contract until a few milliseconds af- fluid calcium ion concentration. ter the action potential ends. Therefore, the duration of In contrast, the strength of skeletal muscle contrac- contraction of cardiac muscle is mainly a function of the tion is hardly affected by moderate changes in extracel- duration of the action potential, including the plateau— lular fluid calcium concentration. This is because skeletal about 0.2 second in atrial muscle and 0.3 second in ven- muscle contraction is caused almost entirely by calcium tricular muscle. ions released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum inside the skeletal muscle fiber. CARDIAC CYCLE At the end of the plateau of the cardiac action poten- tial, the influx of calcium ions to the interior of the muscle The cardiac events that occur from the beginning of fiber is suddenly cut off, and calcium ions in the sarco- one heartbeat to the beginning of the next are called the plasm are rapidly pumped back out of the muscle fibers cardiac cycle. Each cycle is initiated by the spontane- into the sarcoplasmic reticulum and T tubule–extra- ous generation of an action potential in the sinus node, cellular fluid space. Transport of calcium back into
