Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is initiated by the spontane- into the sarcoplasmic reticulum and T tubule–extra- ous generation of an action potential in the sinus node, cellular fluid space. Transport of calcium back into the as explained in Chapter 10. This node is located in the sarcoplasmic reticulum is achieved with the help of a superior lateral wall of the right atrium near the open- calcium–adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) pump (the ing of the superior vena cava, and the action potential sarcoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase, travels from here rapidly through both atria and then SERCA2; see Figure 9- 7). Calcium ions are also removed through the A- V bundle into the ventricles. Because of from the cell by a sodium-c alcium exchanger. The sodium this special arrangement of the conducting system from that enters the cell during this exchange is then trans- the atria into the ventricles, there is a delay of more than ported out of the cell by the sodium- potassium ATPase 0.1 second during passage of the cardiac impulse from pump. As a result, the contraction ceases until a new the atria into the ventricles. This delay allows the atria action potential comes along. to contract ahead of ventricular contraction, thereby pumping blood into the ventricles before the strong ven- Duration of Contraction. Cardiac muscle begins to con- tricular contraction begins. Thus, the atria act as primer tract a few milliseconds after the action potential begins pumps for the ventricles, and the ventricles in turn 117 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Isovolumic relaxation Isovolumic Ejection Rapid inflow Atrial systole Diastasis contraction 120 Aortic Aortic valve valve closes 100 opens Aortic pressure 80 60 A-V valve A-V valve 40 closes opens 20 Atrial pressure a c v 0 Ventricular pressure 130 Ventricular volume 90 R Figure 9- 8. Events of the cardiac 50 P cycle for left ventricular function, T Electrocardiogram Q showing changes in left atrial pres- 1st 2nd 3rd S sure, left ventricular pressure, aortic pressure, ventricular volume, the Phonocardiogram electrocardiogram, and the phono- cardiogram. A-V , Atrioventricular. Systole Diastole Systole Relationship of the Electrocardiogram to provide the major source of power for moving blood the Cardiac Cycle through the body’s vascular system. The electrocardiogram in Figure 9-8 shows the P, Q, R, S, Diastole and Systole and T waves, discussed in Chapters 11 and 12. These are The total duration of the cardiac cycle, including systole electrical voltages
