Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the P, Q, R, S, Diastole and Systole and T waves, discussed in Chapters 11 and 12. These are The total duration of the cardiac cycle, including systole electrical voltages generated by the heart and recorded and diastole, is the reciprocal of the heart rate. For exam- by the electrocardiogram from the surface of the body. ple, if the heart rate is 72 beats/min, the duration of the The P wave is caused by the spread of depolarization cardiac cycle is 1/72 min/beat—about 0.0139 min/beat, or through the atria and is followed by atrial contraction, 0.833 sec/beat. which causes a slight rise in the atrial pressure curve Figure 9- 8 shows the different events during the car- immediately after the electrocardiographic P wave. diac cycle for the left side of the heart. The top three About 0.16 second after the onset of the P wave, the curves show the pressure changes in the aorta, left ventri- QRS waves appear as a result of electrical depolarization cle, and left atrium, respectively. The fourth curve depicts of the ventricles, which initiates contraction of the ven- the changes in left ventricular volume, the fifth depicts tricles and causes the ventricular pressure to begin ris- the electrocardiogram, and the sixth depicts a phonocar- ing. Therefore, the QRS complex begins slightly before the diogram, which is a recording of the sounds produced by onset of ventricular systole. the heart—mainly by the heart valves—as it pumps. It is Finally, the ventricular T wave represents the stage especially important that the reader study this figure in of repolarization of the ventricles when the ventricular detail and understand the causes of all the events shown. muscle fibers begin to relax. Therefore, the T wave occurs slightly before the end of ventricular contraction. Increasing Heart Rate Decreases Duration of Cardiac The Atria Function as Primer Pumps for Cycle. When heart rate increases, the duration of each the Ventricles cardiac cycle decreases, including the contraction and relaxation phases. The duration of the action potential Blood normally flows continually from the great veins and systole also decrease, but not by as great a percent- into the atria; about 80% of the blood flows directly age as diastole. At a normal heart rate of 72 beats/min, through the atria into the ventricles, even before the systole comprises about 0.4 of the entire cardiac cycle. At atria contract. Then, atrial contraction usually causes
