Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rate of 72 beats/min, through the atria into the ventricles, even before the systole comprises about 0.4 of the entire cardiac cycle. At atria contract. Then, atrial contraction usually causes three times the normal heart rate, systole is about 0.65 of an additional 20% filling of the ventricles. Therefore, the the entire cardiac cycle. This means that the heart beat- atria function as primer pumps that increase the ventric- ing very rapidly does not remain relaxed long enough to ular pumping effectiveness as much as 20%. However, allow complete filling of the cardiac chambers before the the heart can continue to operate under most condi- next contraction. tions even without this extra 20% effectiveness because 118 )gH mm( erusserP )lm( emuloV Chapter 9 Cardiac Muscle: The Heart as a Pump and Function of the Heart Valves Outflow of Blood from the Ventricles it normally has the capability of pumping 300% to 400% During Systole more blood than is required by the resting body. There- fore, when the atria fail to function, the difference is Period of Isovolumic (Isometric) Contraction. Immedi- unlikely to be noticed unless a person exercises; then, ately after ventricular contraction begins, the ventricular symptoms of heart failure occasionally develop, espe- pressure rises abruptly, as shown in Figure 9- 8, causing cially shortness of breath. the A- V valves to close. Then, an additional 0.02 to 0.03 second is required for the ventricle to build up sufficient Pressure Changes in the Atria—a, c, and v Waves. In the pressure to push the semilunar (aortic and pulmonary) atrial pressure curve of Figure 9- 8, three minor pressure el- valves open against the pressures in the aorta and pulmo- evations, called a, c, and v atrial pressure waves, are shown. nary artery. Therefore, during this period, contraction is The a wave is caused by atrial contraction. Ordinarily, occurring in the ventricles, but no emptying occurs. This the right atrial pressure increases 4 to 6 mm Hg during atri- period is called the period of isovolumic or isometric con- al contraction, and the left atrial pressure increases about 7 traction, meaning that cardiac muscle tension is increas- to 8 mm Hg. ing but little or no shortening of the muscle fibers is oc- The c wave occurs when the ventricles begin to contract; it is caused partly by slight backflow of blood into the atria curring. at the onset of ventricular
