Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is oc- The c wave occurs when the ventricles begin to contract; it is caused partly by slight backflow of blood into the atria curring. at the onset of ventricular contraction, but mainly by bulg- ing of the A- V valves backward toward the atria because of Period of Ejection. When the left ventricular pressure increasing pressure in the ventricles. rises slightly above 80 mm Hg (and the right ventricular The v wave occurs toward the end of ventricular con- pressure rises slightly above 8 mm Hg), the ventricular traction; it results from slow flow of blood into the atria pressures push the semilunar valves open. Immediately, from the veins while the A- V valves are closed during ven- blood is ejected out of the ventricles into the aorta and tricular contraction. Then, when ventricular contraction is pulmonary artery. Approximately 60% of the blood in the over, the A- V valves open, allowing this stored atrial blood ventricles at the end of diastole is ejected during systole; to flow rapidly into the ventricles, causing the v wave to about 70% of this portion flows out during the first third disappear. of the ejection period, with the remaining 30% emptying during the next two thirds. Therefore, the first third is FUNCTION OF THE VENTRICLES AS PUMPS called the period of rapid ejection, and the last two thirds is called the period of slow ejection. The Ventricles Fill with Blood During Diastole. During ventricular systole, large amounts of blood Period of Isovolumic (Isometric) Relaxation. At the accumulate in the right and left atria because of the end of systole, ventricular relaxation begins suddenly, al- closed A- V valves. Therefore, as soon as systole is lowing both the right and left intraventricular pressures to over, and the ventricular pressures fall again to their decrease rapidly. The elevated pressures in the distended low diastolic values, the moderately increased pres- large arteries that have just been filled with blood from sures that have developed in the atria during ven- the contracted ventricles immediately push blood back tricular systole immediately push the A- V valves open toward the ventricles, which snaps the aortic and pulmo- and allow blood to flow rapidly into the ventricles, as nary valves closed. For another 0.03 to 0.06 second, the shown by the rise of the left ventricular volume curve ventricular muscle continues to relax, even though the in Figure 9-8
