Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


valves closed. For another 0.03 to 0.06 second, the shown by the rise of the left ventricular volume curve ventricular muscle continues to relax, even though the in Figure 9-8 . This period is called the period of rapid ventricular volume does not change, giving rise to the pe- filling of the ventricles. riod of isovolumic or isometric relaxation. During this pe- In a healthy heart, the period of rapid filling lasts for riod, the intraventricular pressures rapidly decrease back about the first third of diastole. During the middle third of to their low diastolic levels. Then, the A- V valves open to diastole, only a small amount of blood normally flows into begin a new cycle of ventricular pumping. the ventricles. This is blood that continues to empty into the atria from the veins and passes through the atria directly End-D iastolic Volume, End-S ystolic Volume, and into the ventricles. During the last third of diastole, the atria Stroke Volume Output. During diastole, normal filling contract and give an additional thrust to the inflow of blood of the ventricles increases the volume of each ventricle into the ventricles. This mechanism accounts for about 20% to about 110 to 120 ml. This volume is called the end- of the filling of the ventricles during each heart cycle. diastolic volume. Then, as the ventricles empty during sys- The ventricles stiffen with aging or diseases that tole, the volume decreases by about 70 ml, which is called cause cardiac fibrosis such as high blood pressure or the stroke volume output. The remaining volume in each diabetes mellitus. This causes less blood to fill the ventricle, about 40 to 50 ml, is called the end- systolic vol- ventricles in the early portion of diastole and requires ume. The fraction of the end-d iastolic volume that is eject- more volume (preload; discussed later) or more filling ed is called the ejection fraction, usually equal to about 0.6 from the later atrial contraction to maintain adequate (or 60%). The ejection fraction percentage is often used cardiac output. clinically to assess cardiac systolic (pumping) capability. 119 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart flow from a myocardial infarction, the valve bulges far backward during ventricular contraction, sometimes so MITRAL VALVE far that it leaks severely and results in severe or even lethal cardiac incapacity. Cusp Aortic and Pulmonary Artery Valves. The aortic and pulmonary artery semilunar valves
