Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


so MITRAL VALVE far that it leaks severely and results in severe or even lethal cardiac incapacity. Cusp Aortic and Pulmonary Artery Valves. The aortic and pulmonary artery semilunar valves function quite dif- Chordae tendineae ferently from the A- V valves. First, the high pressures in the arteries at the end of systole cause the semilunar Papillary muscles valves to snap closed, in contrast to the much softer closure of the A- V valves. Second, because of smaller openings, the velocity of blood ejection through the Cusp aortic and pulmonary valves is much greater than that through the much larger A- V valves. Also, because of the rapid closure and rapid ejection, the edges of the aortic and pulmonary valves are subjected to much AORTIC VALVE greater mechanical abrasion than the A- V valves. Fi- nally, the A- V valves are supported by the chordae Figure 9- 9. Mitral and aortic valves (the left ventricular valves). tendineae, which is not true for the semilunar valves. It is obvious from the anatomy of the aortic and pul- When the heart contracts strongly, the end- systolic monary valves (as shown for the aortic valve at the bot- volume may decrease to as little as 10 to 20 ml. Con- tom of Figure 9-9 ) that they must be constructed with versely, when large amounts of blood flow into the ventri- an especially strong, yet very pliable, fibrous tissue to cles during diastole, the ventricular end-d iastolic volumes withstand the extra physical stresses. can become as much as 150 to 180 ml in the healthy heart. By both increasing the end- diastolic volume and decreas- AORTIC PRESSURE CURVE ing the end- systolic volume, the stroke volume output can be increased to more than double that which is normal. When the left ventricle contracts, the ventricular pressure increases rapidly until the aortic valve opens. Then, after THE HEART VALVES PREVENT BACKFLOW the valve opens, the pressure in the ventricle rises much OF BLOOD DURING SYSTOLE less rapidly, as shown in Figure 9- 7, because blood imme- diately flows out of the ventricle into the aorta and then Atrioventricular Valves. The A- V valves (i.e., the tricus- into the systemic distribution arteries. pid and mitral valves) prevent backflow of blood from The entry of blood into the arteries during systole the ventricles to the atria during systole, and the semilu- causes the walls of these
