Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


valves) prevent backflow of blood from The entry of blood into the arteries during systole the ventricles to the atria during systole, and the semilu- causes the walls of these arteries to stretch and the pres- nar valves (i.e., the aortic and pulmonary artery valves) sure to increase to about 120 mm Hg. Next, at the end prevent backflow from the aorta and pulmonary arteries of systole, after the left ventricle stops ejecting blood into the ventricles during diastole. These valves, shown in and the aortic valve closes, the elastic walls of the arter- Figure 9- 9 for the left ventricle, close and open passively. ies maintain a high pressure in the arteries, even during That is, they close when a backward pressure gradient diastole. pushes blood backward, and they open when a forward An incisura occurs in the aortic pressure curve when pressure gradient forces blood in the forward direction. the aortic valve closes. This is caused by a short period of For anatomical reasons, the thin A- V valves require al- backward flow of blood immediately before closure of the most no backflow to cause closure, whereas the much valve, followed by the sudden cessation of backflow. heavier semilunar valves require rather rapid backflow for After the aortic valve closes, pressure in the aorta a few milliseconds. decreases slowly throughout diastole because the blood stored in the distended elastic arteries flows continually Function of the Papillary Muscles. Figure 9- 9 also through the peripheral vessels back to the veins. Before shows papillary muscles that attach to the vanes of the the ventricle contracts again, the aortic pressure usually A- V valves by the chordae tendineae. The papillary mus- has fallen to about 80 mm Hg (diastolic pressure), which cles contract when the ventricular walls contract but, is two thirds the maximal pressure of 120 mm Hg (sys- contrary to what might be expected, they do not help the tolic pressure) that occurs in the aorta during ventricular valves to close. Instead, they pull the vanes of the valves contraction. inward toward the ventricles to prevent their bulging too The pressure curves in the right ventricle and pulmo- far backward toward the atria during ventricular contrac- nary artery are similar to those in the aorta, except that tion. If a chorda tendina becomes ruptured, or if one of the pressures are only about one-sixth as great, as dis- the
