Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


similar to those in the aorta, except that tion. If a chorda tendina becomes ruptured, or if one of the pressures are only about one-sixth as great, as dis- the papillary muscles becomes paralyzed due to low blood cussed in Chapter 14. 120 Chapter 9 Cardiac Muscle: The Heart as a Pump and Function of the Heart Valves Relationship of the Heart Sounds to Heart Pumping 300 Systolic pressure When listening to the heart with a stethoscope, one does not 250 hear the opening of the valves because this is a relatively slow process that normally makes no noise. However, when the 200 Isovolumic valves close, the vanes of the valves and the surrounding fluids relaxation vibrate under the influence of sudden pressure changes, giving Period of ejection off sound that travels in all directions through the chest. 150 When the ventricles contract, one first hears a sound III Isovolumic caused by closure of the A- V valves. The vibration pitch is 100 contraction low and relatively long-l asting and is known as the first heart EW sound (S1). When the aortic and pulmonary valves close at 50 IV II Diastolic the end of systole, one hears a rapid snap because these valves PE I pressure close rapidly, and the surroundings vibrate for a short period. 0 This sound is called the second heart sound (S2). The precise 0 50 100 150 200 250 causes of the heart sounds are discussed more fully in Chapter Period of filling Left ventricular volume (ml) 23 in relation to listening to the sounds with the stethoscope. Figure 9- 10. Relationship between left ventricular volume and intra- Work Output of the Heart ventricular pressure during diastole and systole. Also shown by the red lines is the “volume- pressure diagram,” demonstrating changes The stroke work output of the heart is the amount of energy in intraventricular volume and pressure during the normal cardiac cy- that the heart converts to work during each heartbeat while cle. EW, Net external work; PE, potential energy. pumping blood into the arteries. Work output of the heart is in two forms. First, the major proportion is used to move Until the volume of the noncontracting ventricle the blood from the low- pressure veins to the high- pressure rises above about 150 ml, the diastolic pressure does arteries. This is called volume- pressure work or external not increase much. Therefore, up
