Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


low- pressure veins to the high- pressure rises above about 150 ml, the diastolic pressure does arteries. This is called volume- pressure work or external not increase much. Therefore, up to this volume, blood work. Second, a minor proportion of the energy is used to can flow easily into the ventricle from the atrium. Above accelerate the blood to its velocity of ejection through the aortic and pulmonary valves, which is the kinetic energy of 150 ml, the ventricular diastolic pressure increases rap- blood flow component of the work output. idly, partly because of fibrous tissue in the heart that will Right ventricular external work output is normally stretch no more, and partly because the pericardium that about one-sixth the work output of the left ventricle be- surrounds the heart becomes filled nearly to its limit. cause of the sixfold difference in systolic pressures pumped During ventricular contraction, the systolic pressure by the two ventricles. The additional work output of each increases, even at low ventricular volumes, and reaches a ventricle required to create kinetic energy of blood flow is maximum at a ventricular volume of 150 to 170 ml. Then, proportional to the mass of blood ejected times the square as the volume increases further, the systolic pressure actu- of velocity of ejection. ally decreases under some conditions, as demonstrated Ordinarily, the work output of the left ventricle required by the falling systolic pressure curve in Figure 9- 10. This to create kinetic energy of blood flow is only about 1% of occurs because at these great volumes, the actin and myo- the total work output of the ventricle and therefore is ig- nored in the calculation of the total stroke work output. In sin filaments of the cardiac muscle fibers are pulled apart certain abnormal conditions, however, such as aortic ste- far enough that the strength of each cardiac fiber contrac- nosis, in which blood flows with great velocity through the tion becomes less than optimal. stenosed valve, more than 50% of the total work output may Note especially in the figure that the maximum sys- be required to create kinetic energy of blood flow. tolic pressure for the normal left ventricle is between 250 and 300 mm Hg, but this varies widely with each person’s heart strength and degree of heart stimulation by cardiac GRAPHIC ANALYSIS OF VENTRICULAR nerves. For the normal right ventricle, the maximum sys-
