Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Hg, but this varies widely with each person’s heart strength and degree of heart stimulation by cardiac GRAPHIC ANALYSIS OF VENTRICULAR nerves. For the normal right ventricle, the maximum sys- PUMPING tolic pressure is between 60 and 80 mm Hg. Figure 9- 10 shows a diagram that is especially useful in Volume- Pressure Diagram During the Cardiac Cycle; explaining the pumping mechanics of the left ventricle. The most important components of the diagram are the Cardiac Work Output. The red lines in Figure 9- 10 form two curves labeled “diastolic pressure” and “systolic pres- a loop called the volume- pressure diagram of the cardiac sure.” These curves are volume- pressure curves. cycle for normal function of the left ventricle. A more de- The diastolic pressure curve is determined by filling tailed version of this loop is shown in Figure 9- 11. It is the heart with progressively greater volumes of blood and divided into four phases. then measuring the diastolic pressure immediately before Phase I: Period of Filling. Phase I in the volume- ventricular contraction occurs, which is the end- diastolic pressure diagram begins at a ventricular volume of about pressure of the ventricle. 50 ml and a diastolic pressure of 2 to 3 mm Hg. The The systolic pressure curve is determined by recording amount of blood that remains in the ventricle after the the systolic pressure achieved during ventricular contrac- previous heartbeat, 50 ml, is called the end- systolic vol- tion at each volume of filling. ume. As venous blood flows into the ventricle from the 121 )gH mm( erusserp ralucirtnevartni tfeL UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Period of ejection 120 Aortic valve closes 100 D EW Aortic valve 80 opens C Isovolumetric relaxation 60 Stroke volume Isovolumetric contraction 40 20 End-systolic End-diastolic Figure 9- 11. The volume- pressure diagram dem- volume Period of volume B onstrating changes in intraventricular volume and Mitral valve filling Mitral valve A pressure during a single cardiac cycle (red line). opens closes The shaded area represents the net external work 0 0 50 70 90 110 130 (EW) output by the left ventricle during the cardiac cycle. Left ventricular volume (ml) left atrium, the ventricular volume normally increases to contraction, this diagram is used for calculating cardiac about 120 ml, called the end- diastolic volume, an increase work output. of 70 ml. Therefore, the volume- pressure diagram during When the heart
