Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


diagram is used for calculating cardiac about 120 ml, called the end- diastolic volume, an increase work output. of 70 ml. Therefore, the volume- pressure diagram during When the heart pumps large quantities of blood, the phase I extends along the line in Figure 9- 10 labeled “I” area of the work diagram becomes much larger. That is, and from point A to point B in Figure 9- 11, with the vol- it extends far to the right because the ventricle fills with ume increasing to 120 ml and the diastolic pressure rising more blood during diastole, it rises much higher because to about 5 to 7 mm Hg. the ventricle contracts with greater pressure, and it usu- Phase II: Period of Isovolumic Contraction. During ally extends farther to the left because the ventricle con- isovolumic contraction, the volume of the ventricle does tracts to a smaller volume—especially if the ventricle is not change because all valves are closed. However, the stimulated to increased activity by the sympathetic ner- pressure inside the ventricle increases to equal the pres- vous system. sure in the aorta, at a pressure value of about 80 mm Hg, as depicted by point C (see Figure 9- 11). Concepts of Preload and Afterload. In assessing the Phase III: Period of Ejection. During ejection, the contractile properties of muscle, it is important to specify systolic pressure rises even higher because of still more the degree of tension on the muscle when it begins to con- contraction of the ventricle. At the same time, the volume tract, called the preload, and to specify the load against of the ventricle decreases because the aortic valve has which the muscle exerts its contractile force, called the now opened, and blood flows out of the ventricle into the afterload. aorta. Therefore, in Figure 9- 10, the curve labeled “III,” For cardiac contraction, the preload is usually con- or “period of ejection,” traces the changes in volume and sidered to be the end- diastolic pressure when the ven- systolic pressure during this period of ejection. tricle has become filled. The afterload of the ventricle Phase IV: Period of Isovolumic Relaxation. At the end is the pressure in the aorta leading from the ventricle. of the period of ejection (point D, Figure 9- 11), the aortic In Figure 9-1 0, this corresponds to the systolic pressure valve closes, and the ventricular pressure falls
