Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ventricle. of the period of ejection (point D, Figure 9- 11), the aortic In Figure 9-1 0, this corresponds to the systolic pressure valve closes, and the ventricular pressure falls back to the described by the phase III curve of the volume- pressure diastolic pressure level. The line labeled “IV” (Figure 9- diagram. (Sometimes the afterload is loosely considered 10) traces this decrease in intraventricular pressure with- to be the resistance in the circulation rather than the out any change in volume. Thus, the ventricle returns to pressure.) its starting point, with about 50 ml of blood left in the The importance of the concepts of preload and after- ventricle at an atrial pressure of 2 to 3 mm Hg. load is that in many abnormal functional states of the The area subtended by this functional volume- heart or circulation, the pressure during filling of the ven- pressure diagram (the shaded area, labeled “EW”) repre- tricle (the preload), the arterial pressure against which the sents the net external work output of the ventricle during ventricle must contract (the afterload), or both are altered its contraction cycle. In experimental studies of cardiac from normal to a severe degree. 122 )gH mm( erusserp ralucirtnevartni tfeL Chapter 9 Cardiac Muscle: The Heart as a Pump and Function of the Heart Valves Chemical Energy Required for Cardiac Contraction: (2) control of heart rate and heart strength by the auto- Oxygen Utilization by the Heart nomic nervous system. Heart muscle, like skeletal muscle, uses chemical energy to provide the work of contraction. Approximately 70% INTRINSIC REGULATION OF HEART to 90% of this energy is normally derived from oxidative PUMPING—THE FRANK- STARLING metabolism of fatty acids, with about 10% to 30% com- MECHANISM ing from other nutrients, especially glucose and lactate. Therefore, the rate of oxygen consumption by the heart In Chapter 20, we will learn that under most conditions, is an excellent measure of the chemical energy liberated the amount of blood pumped by the heart each minute is while the heart performs its work. The different chemi- normally determined almost entirely by the rate of blood cal reactions that liberate this energy are discussed in flow into the heart from the veins, which is called venous Chapters 68 and 69. return. That is, each peripheral tissue of the body controls Experimental studies have shown that oxygen consump- tion of the heart and the chemical
