Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


called venous Chapters 68 and 69. return. That is, each peripheral tissue of the body controls Experimental studies have shown that oxygen consump- tion of the heart and the chemical energy expended during its own local blood flow, and all the local tissue flows com- contraction are directly related to the total shaded area in bine and return by way of the veins to the right atrium. Figure 9- 10. This shaded portion consists of the external The heart, in turn, automatically pumps this incoming work (EW), as explained earlier, and an additional portion blood into the arteries so that it can flow around the cir- called the potential energy, labeled “PE.” The potential ener- cuit again. gy represents additional work that could be accomplished by This intrinsic ability of the heart to adapt to increasing contraction of the ventricle if the ventricle could completely volumes of inflowing blood is called the Frank- Starling empty all the blood in its chamber with each contraction. mechanism of the heart, named in honor of Otto Frank Oxygen consumption has also been shown to be nearly and Ernest Starling, two great physiologists. Basically, the proportional to the tension that occurs in the heart mus- Frank- Starling mechanism means that the more the heart cle during contraction multiplied by the duration of time muscle is stretched during filling, the greater is the force that the contraction persists; this is called the tension- time index. According to the law of Laplace, ventricular wall ten- of contraction, and the greater is the quantity of blood sion (T) is related to the left ventricular pressure (P) and the pumped into the aorta. Or, stated another way—within radius (r): T = P × r. physiological limits, the heart pumps all the blood that Because tension is high when systolic pressure (and returns to it by way of the veins. therefore left ventricular pressure) is high, correspondingly more oxygen is used. When systolic pressure is chroni- What Is the Explanation of the Frank- Starling Mech- cally elevated, wall stress and cardiac workload are also in- anism? When an extra amount of blood flows into the creased, inducing thickening of the left ventricular walls, ventricles, the cardiac muscle is stretched to a greater which can reduce the ventricular chamber radius (concen- length. This stretching causes the muscle to contract with tric hypertrophy) and at least partially relieve the increased increased
