Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to a greater which can reduce the ventricular chamber radius (concen- length. This stretching causes the muscle to contract with tric hypertrophy) and at least partially relieve the increased increased force because the actin and myosin filaments wall tension. Also, much more chemical energy is expend- are brought to a more nearly optimal degree of overlap ed, even at normal systolic pressures, when the ventricle is abnormally dilated (eccentric hypertrophy) because the for force generation. Therefore, the ventricle, because of heart muscle tension during contraction is proportional to its increased pumping, automatically pumps the extra pressure times the radius of the ventricle. This becomes es- blood into the arteries. This ability of stretched muscle, pecially important in heart failure when the heart ventricle up to an optimal length, to contract with increased work is dilated and, paradoxically, the amount of chemical en- output is characteristic of all striated muscle, as explained ergy required for a given amount of work output is greater in Chapter 6, and is not simply a characteristic of cardiac than normal, even though the heart is already failing. muscle. Cardiac Efficiency. During heart muscle contraction, In addition to the important effect of lengthening the most of the expended chemical energy is converted into heat, heart muscle, another factor increases heart pumping and a much smaller portion is converted into work output. when its volume is increased. Stretch of the right atrial Cardiac efficiency is the ratio of work output to total chemi- wall directly increases the heart rate by 10% to 20%, which cal energy used to perform the work. Maximum efficiency of also helps increase the amount of blood pumped each the normal heart is between 20% and 25%. In persons with heart failure, this efficiency can decrease to as low as 5%. minute, although its contribution is much less than that of the Frank- Starling mechanism. As discussed in Chapter 18, stretch of the atrium also activates stretch receptors REGULATION OF HEART PUMPING and a nervous reflex, the Bainbridge reflex, that is trans- mitted by the vagus nerve and may increase heart rate an When a person is at rest, the heart pumps only 4 to 6 additional 40% to 60%. liters of blood each minute. During strenuous exercise, Ventricular Function Curves the heart may pump four to seven times this amount. The basic mechanisms for regulating heart pumping are as fol- One of
