Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


each minute. During strenuous exercise, Ventricular Function Curves the heart may pump four to seven times this amount. The basic mechanisms for regulating heart pumping are as fol- One of the best ways to express the functional ability of lows: (1) intrinsic cardiac pumping regulation in response the ventricles to pump blood is by ventricular function to changes in volume of blood flowing into the heart; and curves. Figure 9- 12 shows a type of ventricular function 123 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Left ventricular Right ventricular Vagi stroke work stroke work (gram-meters) (gram-meters) 40 4 30 3 Sympathetic 20 2 chain 10 1 S-A node A-V 0 0 node 0 10 20 0 10 20 Left mean atrial Right mean atrial pressure pressure (mm Hg) (mm Hg) Figure 9- 12. Left and right ventricular function curves recorded from dogs, depicting ventricular stroke work output as a function of left and right mean atrial pressures. (Data from Sarnoff SJ: Myocardial contractility as described by ventricular function curves. Physiol Rev 35:107, 1955.) Sympathetic nerves 15 Right ventricle Figure 9- 14. Cardiac sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves. (The vagus nerves to the heart are parasympathetic nerves.) A-V , Atrioven- tricular; S- A, sinoatrial. 10 Left ventricle increased more than 100% by sympathetic stimulation. By 5 contrast, the output can be decreased to almost zero by vagal (parasympathetic) stimulation. 0 Mechanisms of Excitation of the Heart by the Sym- –4 0 +4 +8 +12 +16 Atrial pressure (mm Hg) pathetic Nerves. Strong sympathetic stimulation can increase the heart rate in young adult humans from the Figure 9-1 3. Approximate normal right and left ventricular volume output curves for the normal resting human heart as extrapolated normal rate of 70 beats/min up to 180 to 200 beats/min from data obtained in dogs and data from humans. and, rarely, even 250 beats/min. Also, sympathetic stimu- lation may double the force of heart contraction, thereby curve called the stroke work output curve. Note that as increasing the volume of blood pumped and increasing the atrial pressure for each side of the heart increases, stroke ejection pressure. Thus, sympathetic stimulation often can work output for that side increases until it reaches the increase the maximum cardiac output as much as twofold limit of the ventricle’s pumping ability. to threefold, in addition to the increased output caused by Figure 9- 13 shows another type of ventricular func- the
