Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as much as twofold limit of the ventricle’s pumping ability. to threefold, in addition to the increased output caused by Figure 9- 13 shows another type of ventricular func- the Frank- Starling mechanism already discussed. tion curve called the ventricular volume output curve. The Conversely, inhibition of the sympathetic nerves to the two curves of this figure represent function of the two heart can decrease cardiac pumping to a moderate extent. ventricles of the human heart based on data extrapolated Under normal conditions, the sympathetic nerve fibers from experimental animal studies. As the right and left to the heart discharge continuously at a slow rate that atrial pressures increase, the respective ventricular vol- maintains pumping at about 30% above that with no sym- ume outputs per minute also increase. pathetic stimulation. Therefore, when sympathetic ner- Thus, ventricular function curves are another way of vous system activity is depressed below normal, both the expressing the Frank- Starling mechanism of the heart. heart rate and strength of ventricular muscle contraction That is, as the ventricles fill in response to higher atrial decrease, thereby decreasing the level of cardiac pumping pressures, each ventricular volume and strength of car- by as much as 30% below normal. diac muscle contraction increase, causing the heart to pump increased quantities of blood into the arteries. Parasympathetic (Vagal) Stimulation Reduces Heart Rate and Strength of Contraction. Strong stimulation Control of the Heart by the Sympathetic of the parasympathetic nerve fibers in the vagus nerves and Parasympathetic Nerves to the heart can stop the heartbeat for a few seconds, but The pumping effectiveness of the heart also is controlled then the heart usually “escapes” and beats at a rate of 20 by the sympathetic and parasympathetic (vagus) nerves, to 40 beats/min as long as the parasympathetic stimula- which abundantly supply the heart, as shown in Figure tion continues. In addition, strong vagal stimulation can 9- 14. For given levels of atrial pressure, the amount of decrease the strength of heart muscle contraction by 20% blood pumped each minute (cardiac output) often can be to 30%. 124 )nim/L( tuptuo ralucirtneV Chapter 9 Cardiac Muscle: The Heart as a Pump and Function of the Heart Valves Maximum sympathetic ions in the extracellular fluids have important effects on 25 stimulation cardiac pumping. Effect of Potassium Ions. Excess potassium in the ex- 20 tracellular fluids causes the heart to become dilated and flaccid
