Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


extracellular fluids have important effects on 25 stimulation cardiac pumping. Effect of Potassium Ions. Excess potassium in the ex- 20 tracellular fluids causes the heart to become dilated and flaccid and also slows the heart rate. Large quantities of 15 Normal sympathetic potassium also can block conduction of the cardiac im- stimulation pulse from the atria to the ventricles through the A- V bundle. Elevation of potassium concentration to only 8 Zero sympathetic to 12 mEq/L—two to three times the normal value—can 10 stimulation cause severe weakness of the heart, abnormal rhythm, (Parasympathetic and death. stimulation) These effects result partially from the fact that a 5 high potassium concentration in the extracellular fluids decreases the resting membrane potential in the car- diac muscle fibers, as explained in Chapter 5. That is, a 0 high extracellular fluid potassium concentration partially –4 0 +4 +8 depolarizes the cell membrane, causing the membrane Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) potential to be less negative. As the membrane poten- Figure 9- 15. Effect on the cardiac output curve of different degrees tial decreases, the intensity of the action potential also of sympathetic or parasympathetic stimulation. decreases, which makes contraction of the heart progres- sively weaker. The vagal fibers are distributed mainly to the atria and not much to the ventricles, where the power contrac- Effect of Calcium Ions. Excess calcium ions cause effects tion of the heart occurs. This distribution explains why almost exactly opposite to those of potassium ions, caus- the effect of vagal stimulation is mainly to decrease the ing the heart to move toward spastic contraction. This ef- heart rate rather than to decrease greatly the strength fect is caused by a direct effect of calcium ions to initiate of heart contraction. Nevertheless, the great decrease in the cardiac contractile process, as explained earlier in this heart rate, combined with a slight decrease in heart con- chapter. traction strength, can decrease ventricular pumping by Conversely, deficiency of calcium ions causes cardiac 50% or more. weakness, similar to the effect of high potassium. For- tunately, calcium ion levels in the blood normally are Effect of Sympathetic or Parasympathetic Stimula- regulated within a very narrow range. Therefore, cardiac tion on the Cardiac Function Curve. Figure 9- 15 shows effects of abnormal calcium concentrations are seldom of four cardiac function curves. These curves are similar to clinical concern. the ventricular function curves of Figure 9-
