Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Figure 9- 15 shows effects of abnormal calcium concentrations are seldom of four cardiac function curves. These curves are similar to clinical concern. the ventricular function curves of Figure 9- 13. However, they represent function of the entire heart rather than EFFECT OF TEMPERATURE ON HEART that of a single ventricle. They show the relationship be- FUNCTION tween right atrial pressure at the input of the right heart and cardiac output from the left ventricle into the aorta. Increased body temperature, such as that which occurs The curves of Figure 9- 15 demonstrate that at any during fever, greatly increases the heart rate, sometimes given right atrial pressure, the cardiac output increases to double the normal rate. Decreased temperature greatly during increased sympathetic stimulation and decreases decreases the heart rate, which may fall to as low as a during increased parasympathetic stimulation. These few beats per minute when a person is near death from changes in output caused by autonomic nervous system hypothermia in the body temperature range of 60° to 70°F stimulation result from changes in heart rate and from (15.5°–21°C). These effects presumably result from the changes in contractile strength of the heart. fact that heat increases the permeability of the cardiac muscle membrane to ions that control heart rate, result- EFFECT OF POTASSIUM AND CALCIUM ing in acceleration of the self- excitation process. IONS ON HEART FUNCTION Contractile strength of the heart often is enhanced temporarily by a moderate increase in temperature, such In our discussion of membrane potentials in Chapter 5, as that which occurs during body exercise, but prolonged we pointed out that potassium ions have a marked effect temperature elevation exhausts the metabolic systems of on membrane potentials, and in Chapter 6 we noted that the heart and eventually causes weakness. Therefore, opti- calcium ions play an especially important role in activat- mal heart function depends greatly on proper control of ing the muscle contractile process. Therefore, it is not body temperature by the control mechanisms explained surprising that the concentrations of each of these two in Chapter 74. 125 )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Normal range Dewenter M, von der Lieth A, Katus HA, Backs J: Calcium signal- ing and transcriptional regulation in cardiomyocytes. Circ Res 5 121:1000, 2017. Doenst T, Nguyen TD, Abel ED: Cardiac metabolism in heart failure: 4 implications beyond ATP production. Circ Res 113:709, 2013.
