Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the ventricles before immediately into the atrial muscle wall. they pump blood through the lungs and peripheral circu- lation. Another especially important feature of the system AUTOMATIC ELECTRICAL RHYTHMICITY is that it allows all portions of the ventricles to contract OF THE SINUS FIBERS almost simultaneously, which is essential for the most effective pressure generation in the ventricular chambers. Some cardiac fibers have the capability of self- excitation, This rhythmical and conductive system of the heart a process that can cause automatic rhythmical discharge is susceptible to damage by heart disease, especially by and contraction. This capability is especially true of the ischemia resulting from inadequate coronary blood flow. heart’s specialized conducting system, including fibers of The effect is often a bizarre heart rhythm or an abnor- the sinus node. For this reason, the sinus node ordinarily mal sequence of contraction of the heart chambers, and controls the beat rate of the entire heart, as discussed in the pumping effectiveness of the heart can be affected detail later in this chapter. First, let us describe this auto- severely, even to the extent of causing death. matic rhythmicity. SPECIALIZED EXCITATORY AND Mechanism of Sinus Nodal Rhythmicity. Figure 10- CONDUCTIVE SYSTEM OF THE HEART 2 shows action potentials recorded from inside a sinus nodal fiber for three heartbeats and, by comparison, a Figure 10- 1 shows the specialized excitatory and con- single ventricular muscle fiber action potential. Note ductive system of the heart that controls cardiac con- that the resting membrane potential of the sinus nodal tractions. The figure shows the sinus node (also called fiber between discharges is about –55 to –60 millivolts, sinoatrial [S-A ] node), in which the normal rhythmical in comparison with –85 to –90 millivolts for the ventricu- impulses are generated; the internodal pathways that con- lar muscle fiber. The cause of this lower negativity is that duct impulses from the sinus node to the atrioventricular the cell membranes of the sinus fibers are naturally leaky (A- V) node; the A- V node in which impulses from the to sodium and calcium ions, and positive charges of the atria are delayed before passing into the ventricles; the entering sodium and calcium ions neutralize some of the A- V bundle, which conducts impulses from the atria into intracellular negativity. the ventricles; and the left and right bundle branches of Before we explain the rhythmicity of the sinus
