Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


A- V bundle, which conducts impulses from the atria into intracellular negativity. the ventricles; and the left and right bundle branches of Before we explain the rhythmicity of the sinus nodal Purkinje fibers, which conduct the cardiac impulses to all fibers, first recall from the discussions of Chapters 5 and 9 parts of the ventricles. that cardiac muscle has three main types of membrane ion channels that play important roles in causing the voltage SINUS (SINOATRIAL) NODE changes of the action potential. They are (1) fast sodium channels, (2) calcium channels (particularly L- type or The sinus node is a small, flattened, ellipsoid strip of spe- “slow” calcium channels), and (3) potassium channels (see cialized cardiac muscle about 3 mm wide, 15 mm long, Figure 9- 5). 127 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart for more than a few milliseconds, the inactivation gates on the inside of the cell membrane that close the fast sodium channels become closed and remain so. There- fore, only the slow sodium-c alcium channels can open (i.e., can become activated) and thereby cause the action potential. As a result, the atrial nodal action potential is Sinus A-V bundle slower to develop than the action potential of the ventric- node ular muscle. Also, after the action potential does occur, return of the potential to its negative state occurs slowly Internodal Left as well, rather than the abrupt return that occurs for the pathways bundle ventricular fiber. branch A-V node Leakiness of Sinus Nodal Fibers to Sodium and Cal- Right cium Causes Self- Excitation. Because of the high sodi- bundle branch um ion concentration in the extracellular fluid outside the nodal fiber, as well as a moderate number of already open sodium channels, positive sodium ions from outside the fibers normally tend to leak to the inside through inward, “funny” currents. Therefore, between heartbeats, the in- Figure 10- 1 Sinus node and the Purkinje system of the heart, show- ing also the atrioventricular (A- V) node, atrial internodal pathways, flux of positively charged sodium ions causes a slow rise and ventricular bundle branches. in the resting membrane potential in the positive direc- tion. Thus, as shown in Figure 10- 2, the resting potential Threshold for Sinus Ventricular gradually rises and becomes less negative between each +20 discharge nodal fiber muscle fiber two heartbeats. When the potential reaches a threshold 0 voltage of about –40 millivolts, the L-
