Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


gradually rises and becomes less negative between each +20 discharge nodal fiber muscle fiber two heartbeats. When the potential reaches a threshold 0 voltage of about –40 millivolts, the L- type calcium chan- nels become activated, thus causing the action potential. Therefore, basically, the inherent leakiness of the sinus –40 nodal fibers to sodium and calcium ions causes their self- excitation. Resting Why does this leakiness to sodium and calcium ions –80 potential not cause the sinus nodal fibers to remain depolarized all the time? Two events occur during the course of the 0 1 2 3 action potential to prevent such a constant state of depo- Seconds larization. First, the L- type calcium channels become Figure 10- 2 Rhythmical discharge of a sinus nodal fiber. Also, the inactivated (i.e., they close) within about 100 to 150 mil- sinus nodal action potential is compared with that of a ventricular liseconds after opening; and second, at about the same muscle fiber. time, greatly increased numbers of potassium channels open. Therefore, influx of positive calcium and sodium Opening of the fast sodium channels for a few ions through the L- type calcium channels ceases, while 10,000ths of a second is responsible for the rapid upstroke at the same time large quantities of positive potassium spike of the action potential observed in ventricular mus- ions diffuse out of the fiber. Both these effects reduce the cle because of rapid influx of positive sodium ions to the intracellular potential back to its negative resting level and interior of the fiber. Then, the plateau of the ventricular therefore terminate the action potential. Furthermore, the action potential is caused primarily by slower opening of potassium channels remain open for another few tenths the slow sodium- calcium channels, which lasts for about of a second, temporarily continuing movement of posi- 0.3 second. Finally, opening of potassium channels allows tive charges out of the cell, with resultant excess negativity for the diffusion of large amounts of positive potassium inside the fiber; this process is called hyperpolarization. ions in the outward direction through the fiber membrane The hyperpolarization state initially carries the resting and returns the membrane potential to its resting level. membrane potential down to about –55 to –60 millivolts However, there is a difference in the function of these at the termination of the action potential. channels in the sinus nodal fiber because the resting Why is
