Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


–60 millivolts However, there is a difference in the function of these at the termination of the action potential. channels in the sinus nodal fiber because the resting Why is this new state of hyperpolarization not main- potential is much less negative—only –55 millivolts in tained forever? The reason is that during the next few the nodal fiber instead of the –90 millivolts in the ven- tenths of a second after the action potential is over, pro- tricular muscle fiber. At this level of –55 millivolts, the gressively more and more potassium channels close. The fast sodium channels mainly have already become inacti- inward- leaking sodium (“funny” current) and calcium vated, or blocked. This is because any time the membrane ions once again overbalance the outward flux of potas- potential remains less negative than about –55 millivolts sium ions, which causes the resting potential to drift 128 stlovilliM Chapter 10 Rhythmical Excitation of the Heart rapidly conducting Purkinje fibers of the ventricles, dis- Internodal pathways Transitional fibers cussed below. THE ATRIOVENTRICULAR NODE DELAYS A-V node IMPULSE CONDUCTION FROM THE ATRIA TO THE VENTRICLES (0.03) The atrial conductive system is organized so that the car- Atrioventricular diac impulse does not travel from the atria into the ven- fibrous tissue tricles too rapidly; this delay allows time for the atria to (0.12) Penetrating portion empty their blood into the ventricles before ventricular of A-V bundle contraction begins. It is primarily the A- V node and its Distal portion of adjacent conductive fibers that delay this transmission A-V bundle into the ventricles. The A- V node is located in the posterior wall of the Right bundle branch Left bundle branch right atrium, immediately behind the tricuspid valve, as (0.16) shown in Figure 10- 1. Figure 10- 3 diagrams the differ- ent parts of this node, plus its connections with the enter- ing atrial internodal pathway fibers and the exiting A- V bundle. This figure also shows the approximate intervals Ventricular of time (in fractions of a second) between the initial onset septum of the cardiac impulse in the sinus node and its subse- Figure 10- 3 Organization of the atrioventricular (A- V) node. The quent appearance in the A- V nodal system. Note that the numbers represent the interval of time from the origin of the impulse impulse, after traveling through the internodal pathways, in the sinus node. The values have been extrapolated
