Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that the numbers represent the interval of time from the origin of the impulse impulse, after traveling through the internodal pathways, in the sinus node. The values have been extrapolated to humans. reaches the A- V node about 0.03 second after its origin in the sinus node. Then, there is a delay of another 0.09 sec- upward once more, finally reaching the threshold level ond in the A- V node itself before the impulse enters the for discharge at a potential of about –40 millivolts. Then, penetrating portion of the A- V bundle, where it passes the entire process begins again: self-e xcitation to cause into the ventricles. A final delay of another 0.04 second the action potential, recovery from the action potential, occurs mainly in this penetrating A- V bundle, which is hyperpolarization after the action potential is over, drift of composed of multiple small fascicles passing through the the resting potential to threshold, and finally re-e xcitation fibrous tissue separating the atria from the ventricles. to elicit another cycle. This process continues throughout Thus, the total delay in the A- V nodal and A- V bundle a person’s life. system is about 0.13 second. This delay, in addition to the initial conduction delay of 0.03 second from the sinus INTERNODAL AND INTERATRIAL PATHWAYS node to the A- V node, makes a total delay of 0.16 second TRANSMIT CARDIAC IMPULSES THROUGH before the excitatory signal finally reaches the contracting THE ATRIA muscle of the ventricles. The ends of the sinus nodal fibers connect directly with Cause of the Slow Conduction. The slow conduction in the surrounding atrial muscle fibers. Therefore, action the transitional, nodal, and penetrating A- V bundle fibers potentials originating in the sinus node travel outward is caused mainly by diminished numbers of gap junctions into these atrial muscle fibers. In this way, the action between successive cells in the conducting pathways, so potential spreads through the entire atrial muscle mass there is great resistance to conduction of excitatory ions and, eventually, to the A- V node. The velocity of conduc- from one conducting fiber to the next. Therefore, it is easy tion in most atrial muscle is about 0.3 m/sec, but conduc- to see why each succeeding cell is slow to be excited. tion is more rapid, about 1 m/sec, in several small bands RAPID TRANSMISSION OF THE CARDIAC of atrial fibers. One of these bands,
