Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


succeeding cell is slow to be excited. tion is more rapid, about 1 m/sec, in several small bands RAPID TRANSMISSION OF THE CARDIAC of atrial fibers. One of these bands, called the anterior IMPULSE IN THE VENTRICULAR PURKINJE interatrial band (also called Bachman’s bundle), passes SYSTEM through the anterior walls of the atria to the left atrium. In addition, three other small bands curve through the ante- Special Purkinje fibers lead from the A- V node through rior, lateral, and posterior atrial walls and terminate in the the A- V bundle into the ventricles. Except for the initial A- V node, shown in Figure 10- 1 and Figure 10- 3; these portion of these fibers, where they penetrate the A- V are called, respectively, the anterior, middle, and posterior fibrous barrier, they have functional characteristics that internodal pathways. The cause of more rapid velocity of are the opposite of those of the A- V nodal fibers. They are conduction in these bands is the presence of specialized very large fibers, even larger than the normal ventricu- conduction fibers. These fibers are similar to even more lar muscle fibers, and they transmit action potentials at a 129 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart velocity of 1.5 to 4.0 m/sec, a velocity about six times that TRANSMISSION OF THE CARDIAC in the usual ventricular muscle and 150 times that in some IMPULSE IN THE VENTRICULAR MUSCLE of the A- V nodal fibers. This velocity allows almost instan- taneous transmission of the cardiac impulse throughout Once the impulse reaches the ends of the Purkinje fibers, the entire remainder of the ventricular muscle. it is transmitted through the ventricular muscle mass by The rapid transmission of action potentials by Pur- the ventricular muscle fibers themselves. The velocity of kinje fibers is believed to be caused by a very high level of transmission is now only 0.3 to 0.5 m/sec, one-sixth that permeability of the gap junctions at the intercalated discs in the Purkinje fibers. between the successive cells that make up the Purkinje The cardiac muscle wraps around the heart in a double fibers. Therefore, ions are transmitted easily from one cell spiral, with fibrous septa between the spiraling layers; there- to the next, thus enhancing the velocity of transmission. fore, the cardiac impulse does not necessarily travel directly The Purkinje fibers also have very few myofibrils, which outward toward the surface of the
