Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


thus enhancing the velocity of transmission. fore, the cardiac impulse does not necessarily travel directly The Purkinje fibers also have very few myofibrils, which outward toward the surface of the heart but, instead, angu- means that they contract little or not at all during the lates toward the surface along the directions of the spirals. course of impulse transmission. Because of this angulation, transmission from the endocardial surface to the epicardial surface of the ventricle requires as The A-V Bundle Is Normally a One-W ay Conduction much as another 0.03 second, approximately equal to the time Path. A special characteristic of the A- V bundle is the required for transmission through the entire ventricular por- inability, except in abnormal states, of action potentials tion of the Purkinje system. Thus, the total time for transmis- to travel backward from the ventricles to the atria. This sion of the cardiac impulse from the initial bundle branches to characteristic prevents re- entry of cardiac impulses by the last of the ventricular muscle fibers in the normal heart is this route from the ventricles to the atria, allowing only about 0.06 second. forward conduction from the atria to the ventricles. SUMMARY OF THE SPREAD OF THE Furthermore, it should be recalled that everywhere, CARDIAC IMPULSE THROUGH THE HEART except at the A- V bundle, the atrial muscle is separated from the ventricular muscle by a continuous fibrous bar- Figure 10- 4 summarizes the transmission of the cardiac rier, a portion of which is shown in Figure 10- 3. This impulse through the human heart. The numbers on the barrier normally acts as an insulator to prevent passage of the cardiac impulse between atrial and ventricular muscle through any other route besides forward conduc- tion through the A- V bundle. In rare cases, an abnormal muscle bridge, or accessory pathway, does penetrate the fibrous barrier elsewhere besides at the A- V bundle. Under such conditions, the cardiac impulse can re-e nter the atria from the ventricles and cause serious cardiac arrhythmias. Distribution of the Purkinje Fibers in the Ventricles— Left and Right Bundle Branches. After penetrating the fibrous tissue between the atrial and ventricular muscle, the .07 distal portion of the A- V bundle passes downward in the ven- S-A tricular septum for 5 to 15 mm toward the apex of the heart, .04 .06 as shown in Figures 10-1 and 10-3. Then, the bundle
