Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


downward in the ven- S-A tricular septum for 5 to 15 mm toward the apex of the heart, .04 .06 as shown in Figures 10-1 and 10-3. Then, the bundle divides .03 .09 into left and right bundle branches that lie beneath the endo- A-V .00 .22 cardium on the two respective sides of the ventricular sep- .07 .19 tum. Each branch spreads downward toward the apex of the .03 .16 ventricle, progressively dividing into smaller branches. These .05 branches, in turn, course sidewise around each ventricular .18 .21 chamber and back toward the base of the heart. The ends of .07 .17 the Purkinje fibers penetrate about one-third of the way into .19 .17 the muscle mass and finally become continuous with the car- diac muscle fibers. .18 The total elapsed time averages only 0.03 second from .21 the time the cardiac impulse enters the bundle branches in the ventricular septum until it reaches the termina- .20 tions of the Purkinje fibers. Therefore, once the cardiac Figure 10- 4 Transmission of the cardiac impulse through the heart, impulse enters the ventricular Purkinje conductive sys- showing the time of appearance (in fractions of a second after initial tem, it spreads almost immediately to the entire ventricu- appearance at the sinoatrial node) in different parts of the heart. A-V , lar muscle mass. Atrioventricular; S- A, sinoatrial. 130 Chapter 10 Rhythmical Excitation of the Heart figure represent the intervals of time, in fractions of a sec- discharge rate that is more rapid than that of the sinus ond, that lapse between the origin of the cardiac impulse node. For example, this development sometimes occurs in in the sinus node and its appearance at each respective the A- V node or in the Purkinje fibers when one of these point in the heart. Note that the impulse spreads at mod- becomes abnormal. In either case, the pacemaker of the erate velocity through the atria but is delayed more than heart shifts from the sinus node to the A- V node or to the 0.1 second in the A- V nodal region before appearing in excited Purkinje fibers. Under rarer conditions, a place in the ventricular septal A- V bundle. Once it has entered the atrial or ventricular muscle develops excessive excit- this bundle, it spreads very rapidly through the Purkinje ability and becomes the pacemaker. fibers to the entire endocardial surfaces of
