Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


entered the atrial or ventricular muscle develops excessive excit- this bundle, it spreads very rapidly through the Purkinje ability and becomes the pacemaker. fibers to the entire endocardial surfaces of the ventricles. A pacemaker elsewhere than the sinus node is called Then, the impulse once again spreads slightly less rapidly an ectopic pacemaker. An ectopic pacemaker causes an through the ventricular muscle to the epicardial surfaces. abnormal sequence of contraction of the different parts It is important that the student learn in detail the of the heart and can cause significant weakening of heart course of the cardiac impulse through the heart and the pumping. precise times of its appearance in each separate part of the Another cause of shift of the pacemaker is blockage of heart. A thorough quantitative knowledge of this process transmission of the cardiac impulse from the sinus node is essential for understanding electrocardiography, which to the other parts of the heart. The new pacemaker then is discussed in Chapters 11 through 13. usually occurs at the A- V node or in the penetrating por- tion of the A- V bundle on the way to the ventricles. CONTROL OF EXCITATION AND When A- V block occurs—that is, when the cardiac CONDUCTION IN THE HEART impulse fails to pass from the atria into the ventricles through the A- V nodal and bundle system—the atria con- THE SINUS NODE IS THE NORMAL PACE- tinue to beat at the normal rate of rhythm of the sinus MAKER OF THE HEART node while a new pacemaker usually develops in the Pur- kinje system of the ventricles and drives the ventricular In discussing the genesis and transmission of the cardiac muscle at a new rate, somewhere between 15 and 40 beats impulse through the heart, we have noted that the impulse per minute. After sudden A- V bundle block, the Purkinje normally arises in the sinus node. In some abnormal con- system does not begin to emit its intrinsic rhythmical ditions, this is not the case. Other parts of the heart can impulses until 5 to 20 seconds later because, before the also exhibit intrinsic rhythmical excitation in the same blockage, the Purkinje fibers had been “overdriven” by way as the sinus nodal fibers; this is particularly true of the rapid sinus impulses and, consequently, are in a sup- the A- V nodal and Purkinje fibers. pressed state. During these 5
