Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sinus nodal fibers; this is particularly true of the rapid sinus impulses and, consequently, are in a sup- the A- V nodal and Purkinje fibers. pressed state. During these 5 to 20 seconds, the ventricles The A- V nodal fibers, when not stimulated from some fail to pump blood, and the person faints after the first 4 outside source, discharge at an intrinsic rhythmical rate to 5 seconds because of lack of blood flow to the brain. of 40 to 60 times per minute, and the Purkinje fibers dis- This delayed pickup of the heartbeat is called Stokes- charge at a rate somewhere between 15 and 40 times per Adams syndrome. If the delay period is too long, it can minute. These rates are in contrast to the normal rate of lead to death. the sinus node of 70 to 80 times per minute. Why then does the sinus node rather than the A- V ROLE OF THE PURKINJE SYSTEM IN node or the Purkinje fibers control the heart’s rhythmic- CAUSING SYNCHRONOUS CONTRACTION ity? The answer derives from the fact that the discharge OF THE VENTRICULAR MUSCLE rate of the sinus node is considerably faster than the natu- ral self-e xcitatory discharge rate of either the A- V node or The rapid conduction of the Purkinje system normally the Purkinje fibers. Each time the sinus node discharges, its permits the cardiac impulse to arrive at almost all por- impulse is conducted into both the A- V node and Purkinje tions of the ventricles within a narrow span of time, excit- fibers, also discharging their excitable membranes. How- ing the first ventricular muscle fiber only 0.03 to 0.06 ever, the sinus node discharges again before either the A- V second ahead of excitation of the last ventricular muscle node or Purkinje fibers can reach their own thresholds for fiber. This timing causes all portions of the ventricular self-e xcitation. Therefore, the new impulse from the sinus muscle in both ventricles to begin contracting at almost node discharges both the A- V node and Purkinje fibers the same time and then to continue contracting for about before self-e xcitation can occur in either of these sites. another 0.3 second. Thus, the sinus node controls the beat of the heart Effective pumping by the two ventricular chambers because its rate of rhythmical discharge is faster than that requires this synchronous type of contraction.
