Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


node controls the beat of the heart Effective pumping by the two ventricular chambers because its rate of rhythmical discharge is faster than that requires this synchronous type of contraction. If the car- of any other part of the heart. Therefore, the sinus node is diac impulse should travel through the ventricles slowly, almost always the pacemaker of the normal heart. much of the ventricular mass would contract before contraction of the remainder, in which case the overall Abnormal Pacemakers—Ectopic Pacemaker. Occasio- pumping effect would be greatly depressed. Indeed, in nally, some other part of the heart develops a rhythmical some types of cardiac dysfunction, several of which are 131 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart discussed in Chapters 12 and 13, slow transmission does −75 millivolts rather than the normal level of −55 to −60 occur, and the pumping effectiveness of the ventricles is millivolts. Therefore, the initial rise of the sinus nodal decreased as much as 20% to 30%. Implantable cardiac membrane potential caused by inward sodium and cal- resynchronization devices are types of pacemakers using cium leakage requires much longer to reach the threshold electrical wires or leads that can be inserted into the car- potential for excitation. This requirement greatly slows diac chambers to restore appropriate timing between the the rate of rhythmicity of these nodal fibers. If the vagal atria and both ventricles to improve pumping effective- stimulation is strong enough, it is possible to stop the ness in patients with enlarged and weakened hearts. rhythmical self- excitation of this node entirely. In the A- V node, a state of hyperpolarization caused SYMPATHETIC AND PARASYMPATHETIC by vagal stimulation makes it difficult for the small atrial NERVES CONTROL HEART RHYTHMICITY fibers entering the node to generate enough electricity AND IMPULSE CONDUCTION BY THE to excite the nodal fibers. Therefore, the safety factor for CARDIAC NERVES transmission of the cardiac impulse through the transi- tional fibers into the A- V nodal fibers decreases. A mod- The heart is supplied with both sympathetic and para- erate decrease simply delays conduction of the impulse, sympathetic nerves, as shown in Figure 9- 14 of Chapter but a large decrease blocks conduction entirely. 9. The parasympathetic nerves (the vagi) are distributed mainly to the S- A and A- V nodes, to a lesser extent to Sympathetic Stimulation Increases the Cardiac the muscle of the two atria, and very little directly to
