Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mainly to the S- A and A- V nodes, to a lesser extent to Sympathetic Stimulation Increases the Cardiac the muscle of the two atria, and very little directly to the Rhythm and Conduction. Sympathetic stimulation ventricular muscle. The sympathetic nerves, conversely, causes essentially the opposite effects on the heart as are distributed to all parts of the heart, with strong rep- those caused by vagal stimulation, as follows. resentation in the ventricular muscle, as well as in all the 1. It increases the rate of sinus nodal discharge. other areas. 2. It increases the rate of conduction, as well as the level of excitability in all portions of the heart. Parasympathetic (Vagal) Stimulation Slows the Cardi- 3. It increases greatly the force of contraction of all the ac Rhythm and Conduction. Stimulation of the parasym- cardiac musculature, both atrial and ventricular, as pathetic nerves to the heart (the vagi) causes acetylcholine discussed in Chapter 9. to be released at the vagal endings. This neurotransmitter In short, sympathetic stimulation increases the overall has two major effects on the heart. First, it decreases the activity of the heart. Maximal stimulation can almost tri- rate of rhythm of the sinus node, and second, it decreases ple the heartbeat frequency and can increase the strength the excitability of the A- V junctional fibers between the of heart contraction as much as twofold. atrial musculature and the A- V node, thereby slowing transmission of the cardiac impulse into the ventricles. Mechanism of the Sympathetic Effect. Stimulation of Weak to moderate vagal stimulation slows the rate of the sympathetic nerves releases norepinephrine at the heart pumping, often to as little as one- half normal. Fur- sympathetic nerve endings. Norepinephrine, in turn, thermore, strong stimulation of the vagi can completely stimulates beta- 1 adrenergic receptors, which mediate the stop the rhythmical excitation by the sinus node or com- effects on heart rate. The precise mechanism whereby be- pletely block transmission of the cardiac impulse from the ta- 1 adrenergic stimulation acts on cardiac muscle fibers atria into the ventricles through the A- V node. In either is somewhat unclear, but is thought to increase the per- case, rhythmical excitatory signals are no longer transmit- meability of the fiber membrane to sodium and calcium ted into the ventricles. The ventricles may stop beating for ions. In the sinus node, an increase of sodium-c alcium 5 to 20
