Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the fiber membrane to sodium and calcium ted into the ventricles. The ventricles may stop beating for ions. In the sinus node, an increase of sodium-c alcium 5 to 20 seconds, but then some small area in the Purkinje permeability causes a more positive resting potential. It fibers, usually in the ventricular septal portion of the A- V also causes an increased rate of upward drift of the di- bundle, develops a rhythm of its own and causes ventricu- astolic membrane potential toward the threshold level lar contraction at a rate of 15 to 40 beats per minute. This for self- excitation, thus accelerating self- excitation and, phenomenon is called ventricular escape. therefore, increasing the heart rate. In the A- V node and A- V bundles, increased sodium- Mechanism of the Vagal Effects. The acetylcholine re- calcium permeability makes it easier for the action poten- leased at the vagal nerve endings greatly increases the per- tial to excite each succeeding portion of the conducting meability of the fiber membranes to potassium ions, which fiber bundles, thereby decreasing the conduction time allows rapid leakage of potassium out of the conductive fib- from the atria to the ventricles. ers. This process causes increased negativity inside the fibers, The increase in permeability to calcium ions is at an effect called hyperpolarization, which makes this excitable least partially responsible for the increase in contractile tissue much less excitable, as explained in Chapter 5. strength of the cardiac muscle under the influence of In the sinus node, the state of hyperpolarization makes sympathetic stimulation. This is because calcium ions the resting membrane potential of the sinus nodal fibers play a powerful role in exciting the contractile process of considerably more negative than usual—that is, −65 to the myofibrils. 132 Chapter 10 Rhythmical Excitation of the Heart Bibliography Leyva F, Nisam S, Auricchio: 20 years of cardiac resynchronization therapy. J Am Coll Cardiol. 64:1047, 2014. Abriel H, Rougier JS, Jalife J: Ion channel macromolecular com- Mangoni ME, Nargeot J: Genesis and regulation of the heart automa- plexes in cardiomyocytes: roles in sudden cardiac death. Circ Res ticity. Physiol Rev 88:919, 2008. 116:1971, 2015. Monfredi O, Maltsev VA, Lakatta EG: Modern concepts concerning Anderson RH, Boyett MR, Dobrzynski H, Moorman AF: The anatomy the origin of the heartbeat. Physiology (Bethesda) 28:74, 2013. of the conduction system: implications for the clinical cardiologist. Murphy C, Lazzara R: Current concepts
