Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


recorded; the recording is known as an electrocardio- of positivity, which causes the meter to record positively. To gram (ECG). A normal ECG for two beats of the heart is the right of the muscle fiber is shown a record of changes in shown in Figure 11- 1. potential between the two electrodes, as recorded by a high- speed recording meter. Note that when depolarization has WAVEFORMS OF THE NORMAL reached the halfway mark in Figure 11- 2A, the recording on ELECTROCARDIOGRAM the right has risen to a maximum positive value. In Figure 11- 2B, depolarization has extended over The normal ECG (see Figure 11- 1) is composed of a P the entire muscle fiber, and the recording to the right has wave, a QRS complex, and a T wave. The QRS complex is returned to the zero baseline because both electrodes are often, but not always, three separate waves: the Q wave, now in areas of equal negativity. The completed wave is a the R wave, and the S wave. depolarization wave because it results from the spread of The P wave is caused by electrical potentials generated depolarization along the muscle fiber membrane. when the atria depolarize before atrial contraction begins. Figure 11- 2C shows halfway repolarization of the The QRS complex is caused by potentials generated when same muscle fiber, with positivity returning to the outside the ventricles depolarize before contraction—that is, as the of the fiber. At this point, the left electrode is in an area of depolarization wave spreads through the ventricles. There- positivity, and the right electrode is in an area of negativ- fore, both the P wave and the components of the QRS com- ity. This polarity is opposite to the polarity in Figure 11- plex are depolarization waves. 2A. Consequently, the recording, as shown to the right, The T wave is caused by potentials generated as the ven- becomes negative. tricles recover from depolarization. This process normally In Figure 11- 2D, the muscle fiber has completely occurs in ventricular muscle 0.25 to 0.35 second after depo- repolarized, and both electrodes are now in areas of posi- larization. The T wave is known as a repolarization wave. tivity so that no potential difference is recorded between Thus, the ECG is composed of both depolarization and them. Thus, in the recording on the right, the potential repolarization waves. The principles of depolarization returns once
