Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a heart rate of 60/0.83 times/min, or 72 tricles, and a second electrode is placed elsewhere on the beats/min. body remote from the heart, the voltage of the QRS com- plex may be as high as 3 to 4 millivolts. Even this voltage is FLOW OF CURRENT AROUND THE small in comparison with the monophasic action poten- HEART DURING THE CARDIAC CYCLE tial of 110 millivolts recorded directly at the heart muscle membrane. When ECGs are recorded from electrodes on Recording Electrical Potentials from a the two arms or on one arm and one leg, the voltage of the Partially Depolarized Mass of Syncytial QRS complex usually is 1.0 to 1.5 millivolts from the top Cardiac Muscle of the R wave to the bottom of the S wave, the voltage of the P wave is between 0.1 and 0.3 millivolts, and the volt- Figure 11- 4 shows a syncytial mass of cardiac muscle that age of the T wave is between 0.2 and 0.3 millivolts. has been stimulated at its most central point. Before stimu- lation, all the exteriors of the muscle cells had been positive, P- Q or P-R Interval. The time between the beginning of and the interiors had been negative. For reasons presented the P wave and the beginning of the QRS complex is the in Chapter 5 in the discussion of membrane potentials, as interval between the beginning of electrical excitation of soon as an area of cardiac syncytium becomes depolarized, the atria and the beginning of excitation of the ventricles. negative charges leak to the outsides of the depolarized This period is called the P- Q interval. The normal P- Q muscle fibers, making this part of the surface electronega- interval is about 0.16 second. (Often, this interval is called tive, as represented by the minus signs in Figure 11- 4. The the P- R interval because the Q wave is likely to be ab- remaining surface of the heart, which is still polarized, is sent.) The P- R interval shortens at faster heart rates due represented by the plus signs. Therefore, a meter connected to increased sympathetic or decreased parasympathetic with its negative terminal on the area of depolarization and activity, which increase atrioventricular node conduction its positive terminal on one of the still polarized areas, as speed. Conversely, the P-R interval lengthens with slower shown to the right in the figure, records positively.
