Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


this I case, on the limbs. Thus, a lead is not a single wire con- necting from the body but a combination of two wires and their electrodes to make a complete circuit between the body and the electrocardiograph. The electrocardiograph in each case is represented by an electrical meter in the diagram, although the actual electrocardiograph is a high- speed, computer- based system with an electronic display. II Lead I. In recording limb lead I, the negative terminal of the electrocardiograph is connected to the right arm, and the positive terminal is connected to the left arm. There- fore, when the point where the right arm connects to the chest is electronegative with respect to the point where the left arm connects, the electrocardiograph records positively—that is, above the zero- voltage line in the III ECG. When the opposite is true, the electrocardiograph records below the line. Lead II. To record limb lead II, the negative terminal of Figure 11- 7. Normal electrocardiograms recorded from the three standard electrocardiographic leads (I–III). the electrocardiograph is connected to the right arm and the positive terminal is connected to the left leg. There- fore, when the right arm is negative with respect to the with respect to the average potential in the body, the left left leg, the electrocardiograph records positively. arm is +0.3 millivolts (positive), and the left leg is +1.0 millivolts (positive). Observing the meters in the figure, Lead III. To record limb lead III, the negative terminal of one can see that lead I records a positive potential of +0.5 the electrocardiograph is connected to the left arm, and millivolts because this is the difference between the −0.2 the positive terminal is connected to the left leg. This millivolts on the right arm and the +0.3 millivolts on the configuration means that the electrocardiograph records left arm. Similarly, lead III records a positive potential of positively when the left arm is negative with respect to +0.7 millivolts, and lead II records a positive potential of the left leg. +1.2 millivolts because these are the instantaneous poten- tial differences between the respective pairs of limbs. Einthoven’s Triangle. In Figure 11- 6, the triangle, called Now, note that the sum of the voltages in leads I and Einthoven’s triangle, is drawn around the area of the heart. III equals the voltage in lead II; that is, 0.5 plus 0.7 equals This
