Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the voltages in leads I and Einthoven’s triangle, is drawn around the area of the heart. III equals the voltage in lead II; that is, 0.5 plus 0.7 equals This triangle illustrates that the two arms and left leg form 1.2. Mathematically, this principle, called Einthoven’s law, apices of a triangle surrounding the heart. The two apices holds true at any given instant while the three “standard” at the upper part of the triangle represent the points at bipolar ECGs are being recorded. which the two arms connect electrically with the fluids around the heart, and the lower apex is the point at which Normal Electrocardiograms Recorded from the the left leg connects with the fluids. Three Standard Bipolar Limb Leads. Figure 11-7 shows recordings of the ECGs in leads I, II, and III. It is Einthoven’s Law. Einthoven’s law states that if the ECGs obvious that the ECGs in these three leads are similar are recorded simultaneously with the three limb leads, the to one another because they all record positive P waves sum of the potentials recorded in leads I and III will equal and positive T waves, and the major portion of the QRS the potential in lead II: complex is also positive in each ECG. On analysis of the Lead I potential+Lead III potential=Lead II potential three ECGs, it can be shown, with careful measurements and proper observance of polarities, that at any given In other words, if the electrical potentials of any two instant, the sum of the potentials in leads I and III equals of the three bipolar limb electrocardiographic leads are the potential in lead II, thus illustrating the validity of known at any given instant, the third one can be deter- Einthoven’s law. mined by simply summing the first two. Note, however, Because the recordings from all the bipolar limb that the positive and negative signs of the different leads leads are similar to one another, it does not mat- must be observed when making this summation. ter greatly which lead is recorded when one wants For instance, let us assume that momentarily, as noted to diagnose different cardiac arrhythmias, because in Figure 11- 6, the right arm is −0.2 millivolts (negative) diagnosis of arrhythmias depends mainly on the time 139 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart 6 5 1 2 1 2 3 4 3456 V V V V V V
