Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


diagnosis of arrhythmias depends mainly on the time 139 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart 6 5 1 2 1 2 3 4 3456 V V V V V V 1 2 3 4 5 6 Figure 11- 9. Normal electrocardiograms recorded from the six standard chest leads. RA 5000 LA ohms 5000 ohms 0 – + – + aVR aVL aVF Figure 11- 10. Normal electrocardiograms recorded from the three 5000 augmented unipolar limb leads. ohms Figure 11- 9 illustrates the ECGs of the healthy heart as recorded from these six standard chest leads. Because the heart surfaces are close to the chest wall, each chest Figure 11- 8. Connections of the body with the electrocardiograph lead records mainly the electrical potential of the cardiac for recording chest leads. LA, Left arm; RA, right arm. musculature immediately beneath the electrode. There- fore, relatively minute abnormalities in the ventricles, particularly in the anterior ventricular wall, can cause relationships between the different waves of the car- marked changes in the ECGs recorded from individual diac cycle. However, when one wants to diagnose dam- chest leads. age in the ventricular or atrial muscle or in the Purkinje In leads V and V , the QRS recordings of the normal 1 2 conducting system, it matters greatly which leads are heart are mainly negative because, as shown in Figure recorded, because abnormalities of cardiac muscle 11- 8, the chest electrode in these leads is closer to the contraction or cardiac impulse conduction change the base of the heart than to the apex, and the base of the patterns of the ECGs markedly in some leads yet may heart is the direction of electronegativity during most of not affect other leads. Electrocardiographic interpreta- the ventricular depolarization process. Conversely, the tion of these two types of conditions—cardiac myopa- QRS complexes in leads V , V , and V are mainly positive 4 5 6 thies and cardiac arrhythmias—is discussed separately because the chest electrode in these leads is closer to the in Chapters 12 and 13. heart apex, which is the direction of electropositivity dur- ing most of depolarization. Precordial Leads Often ECGs are recorded with one electrode placed Augmented Limb Leads on the anterior surface of the chest directly over the heart at one of the points shown in Figure 11-8 . This Another system of leads in wide use is the augmented electrode
