Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


surface of the chest directly over the heart at one of the points shown in Figure 11-8 . This Another system of leads in wide use is the augmented electrode is connected to the positive terminal of the limb leads. In this type of recording, two of the limbs electrocardiograph, and the negative electrode, called are connected through electrical resistances to the neg- the indifferent electrode or Wilson central terminal, is ative terminal of the electrocardiograph, and the third connected through equal electrical resistances to the limb is connected to the positive terminal. When the right arm, left arm, and left leg all at the same time, positive terminal is on the right arm, the lead is known as also shown in the figure. Usually, six standard chest as the aVR lead; when on the left arm, it is known as leads are recorded, one at a time, from the anterior the aVL lead; and when on the left leg, it is known as chest wall, with the chest electrode being placed the aVF lead. sequentially at the six points shown in the diagram. Normal recordings of the augmented limb leads are The different recordings are known as leads V 1, V 2, V 3, shown in Figure 11- 10. They are all similar to the stan- V , V , and V . dard limb lead recordings, except that the recording from 4 5 6 140 Chapter 11 Fundamentals of Electrocardiography Standard Limb Leads Augmented Leads Precordial Leads I aVR V1 V4 10mm/mv II aVL V2 V5 III aVF V3 V6 Figure 11- 11. Normal 12- lead electrocardiogram. the aVR lead is inverted. (Why does this inversion occur? cause strokes. Because the daily variability in the frequency Study the polarity connections to the electrocardiograph of arrhythmias is substantial, detection often requires am- to determine the answer to this question.) bulatory electrocardiographic monitoring throughout the day. Electrocardiographic Display There are several categories of ambulatory electrocar- diographic recorders. Continuous recorders (Holter moni- Leads are typically displayed into three groupings as in Fig- tors), are typically used for 24 to 48 hours to investigate the ure 11- 11: the standard bipolar limb leads (I, II, III) fol- relationship of symptoms and electrocardiographic events lowed by the augmented leads (aVR, aVL, and aVF) and that are likely to occur within that time frame. Intermittent then the precordial leads (V –V ). 1 6
