Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


events lowed by the augmented leads (aVR, aVL, and aVF) and that are likely to occur within that time frame. Intermittent then the precordial leads (V –V ). 1 6 recorders are used for longer periods (weeks to months) Ambulatory Electrocardiography to provide brief intermittent recordings for detection of events that occur infrequently; these recordings are usually Standard ECGs provide an assessment of cardiac electri- initiated by the patient when experiencing symptoms. In cal events over a brief duration, usually while the patient some cases, a small device, about the size of a large paper is resting. In conditions associated with infrequent but im- clip and called an implantable loop recorder, is implanted portant abnormalities of cardiac rhythms, it may be useful just under the skin in the chest to monitor the heart’s elec- to examine the ECG over a longer period, thereby permit- trical activity continuously for as long as 2 to 3 years. The ting evaluation of changing cardiac electrical phenomena device can be programmed to initiate a recording when the that are transient and may be missed with a standard rest- heart rate falls below, or rises above, a predetermined level, ing ECG. Extending the ECG to allow assessment of car- or it can be activated manually by the patient when a symp- diac electrical events while the patient is ambulating during tom such as dizziness occurs. Improvements in solid- state normal daily activities is called ambulatory electrocardiog- digital technology and recorders equipped with micropro- raphy. cessors now permit continuous or intermittent transmis- Ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring is typi- sion of digital electrocardiographic data over telephone cally used when a patient demonstrates symptoms that lines, and sophisticated software systems provide rapid on- are thought to be caused by transient arrhythmias or other line computerized analysis of the data as they are acquired. transient cardiac abnormalities. These symptoms may in- Newer wearable devices, including watches or hand- held clude chest pain, syncope (fainting) or near syncope, diz- electrocardiographic monitoring devices, are also being de- ziness, and irregular heartbeats (palpitations). The crucial veloped for home- based heart rhythm monitoring. information needed to diagnose serious transient arrhyth- mias or other cardiac conditions is a recording of an ECG during the precise time that the symptom is occurring. Bibliography These devices can also be used to detect asymptomatic See the bibliography for Chapter 13. cardiac arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation that may
