Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


time that the symptom is occurring. Bibliography These devices can also be used to detect asymptomatic See the bibliography for Chapter 13. cardiac arrhythmias such as atrial fibrillation that may in- crease the risk of embolus formation, which can, in turn, 141 UNIT III CHAPTER 1 2 Electrocardiographic Interpretation of Cardiac Muscle and Coronary Blood Flow Abnormalities: Vectorial Analysis From the discussion in Chapter 10 of impulse transmis- THE DIRECTION OF A VECTOR IS DENOTED sion through the heart, it is obvious that any change in IN TERMS OF DEGREES the pattern of this transmission can cause abnormal elec- When a vector is exactly horizontal and directed toward trical potentials around the heart and, consequently, alter the person’s left side, the vector is said to extend in the the shapes of the waves in the electrocardiogram (ECG). direction of 0 degrees, as shown in Figure 12-2. From this For this reason, most serious abnormalities of the heart zero reference point, the scale of vectors rotates clock- muscle can be diagnosed by analyzing the contours of the wise; when the vector extends from above and straight waves in the different electrocardiographic leads. downward, it has a direction of +90 degrees, when it extends from the person’s left to right, it has a direction of VECTORIAL ANALYSIS OF +180 degrees, and when it extends straight upward, it has ELECTROCARDIOGRAMS a direction of −90 (or +270) degrees. In a normal heart, the average direction of the vec- VECTORS CAN REPRESENT ELECTRICAL tor during spread of the depolarization wave through POTENTIALS the ventricles, called the mean QRS vector, is about +59 To understand how cardiac abnormalities affect the con- degrees, which is shown by vector A drawn through the tours of the ECG, one must first become familiar with the center of Figure 12-2 in the +59-d egree direction. This concept of vectors and vectorial analysis as applied to elec- means that during most of the depolarization wave, the trical potentials in and around the heart. In Chapter 11, we apex of the heart remains positive with respect to the base pointed out that heart current flows in a particular direction of the heart, as discussed later in this chapter. in the heart at a given instant during the cardiac cycle. A vec- tor is an arrow that points in the direction of the electrical AXIS FOR EACH STANDARD BIPOLAR potential generated by the
