Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a given instant during the cardiac cycle. A vec- tor is an arrow that points in the direction of the electrical AXIS FOR EACH STANDARD BIPOLAR potential generated by the current flow, with the arrowhead LEAD AND EACH UNIPOLAR LIMB LEAD in the positive direction. Also, by convention, the length of the In Chapter 11, the three standard bipolar and the three arrow is drawn proportional to the voltage of the potential. unipolar limb leads are described. Each lead is actually a pair of electrodes connected to the body on opposite sides Resultant Vector in the Heart at Any Given Instant. of the heart, and the direction from negative electrode to The shaded area and the minus signs in Figure 12-1 show positive electrode is called the axis of the lead. Lead I is depolarization of the ventricular septum and of parts of recorded from two electrodes placed respectively on the the apical endocardial walls of the two ventricles. At the two arms. Because the electrodes lie exactly in the hori- instant of heart excitation, electrical current flows between zontal direction, with the positive electrode to the left, the the depolarized areas inside the heart and the nondepolar- axis of lead I is 0 degrees. ized areas on the outside of the heart, as indicated by the In recording lead II, electrodes are placed on the right long elliptical arrows. Some current also flows inside the arm and left leg. The right arm connects to the torso in heart chambers directly from the depolarized areas toward the upper right- hand corner, and the left leg connects in the still polarized areas. Overall, considerably more current the lower left- hand corner. Therefore, the direction of this flows downward from the base of the ventricles toward the lead is about +60 degrees. apex than in the upward direction. Therefore, the sum- By similar analysis, it can be seen that lead III has an mated vector of the generated potential at this particular axis of about +120 degrees, lead aVR, +210 degrees, lead instant, called the instantaneous mean vector, is represent- aVF, +90 degrees, and lead aVL, −30 degrees. The direc- ed by the long black arrow drawn through the center of tions of the axes of all these leads are shown in Figure the ventricles in a direction from the base toward the apex. 12-3, which is known as the hexagonal reference
