Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


12-2 Vectors drawn to represent potentials for several dif- ferent hearts and the axis of the potential (expressed in degrees) for of the lead I axis, which means that the record momen- each heart. tarily being recorded in the ECG of lead I is positive. The instantaneous recorded voltage will be equal to the length of B divided by the length of A times 2 millivolts, or about 1 millivolt. – – – Figure 12-5 shows another example of vectorial analy- sis. In this example, vector A represents the electrical potential and its axis at a given instant during ventricular + aVR aVL + depolarization in a heart in which the left side of the heart 210° depolarizes more rapidly than the right side. In this case, –30° the instantaneous vector has a direction of 100 degrees, 0° I and its voltage is again 2 millivolts. To determine the – + potential actually recorded in lead I, we draw a perpen- dicular line from the tip of vector A to the lead I axis and find projected vector B. Vector B is very short, and this – 60° – time it is in the negative direction, indicating that at this III II particular instant, the recording in lead I will be negative 120° 90° (below the zero line in the ECG), and the voltage recorded + aVF + will be small, about −0.3 millivolts. This figure demon- strates that when the vector in the heart is in a direction + almost perpendicular to the axis of the lead, the voltage Figure 12-3 Axes of the three bipolar and three unipolar leads. recorded in the ECG of this lead is very low. Conversely, 144 Chapter 12 Electrocardiographic Interpretation of Cardiac Muscle and Coronary Blood Flow Abnormalities equal to that in the heart and, in lead III (vector D), it is about one-third that in the heart. An identical analysis can be used to determine poten- tials recorded in augmented limb leads, except that the respective axes of the augmented leads (see Figure 12-3) are used in place of the standard bipolar limb lead axes used for Figure 12-6. I B I – + VECTORIAL ANALYSIS OF THE NORMAL ELECTROCARDIOGRAM A VECTORS THAT OCCUR AT SUCCESSIVE INTERVALS DURING DEPOLARIZATION OF THE VENTRICLES—THE QRS COMPLEX Figure 12-5 Determination of the projected vector B along the axis When the cardiac impulse enters the ventricles
