Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


THAT OCCUR AT SUCCESSIVE INTERVALS DURING DEPOLARIZATION OF THE VENTRICLES—THE QRS COMPLEX Figure 12-5 Determination of the projected vector B along the axis When the cardiac impulse enters the ventricles through of lead I when vector A represents the instantaneous potential in the the atrioventricular bundle, the first part of the ventricles ventricles. to become depolarized is the left endocardial surface of the septum. Then, depolarization spreads rapidly to involve both endocardial surfaces of the septum, as shown by the – II III – darker shaded portion of the ventricle in Figure 12-7A. Next, depolarization spreads along the endocardial sur- faces of the remainder of the two ventricles, as shown in Figure 12-7B and C. Finally, it spreads through the ven- tricular muscle to the outside of the heart, as shown pro- I B I gressively in Figure 12-7C to E. – + At each stage in Figure 12-7, A to E, the instantaneous D A mean electrical potential of the ventricles is represented by a red vector superimposed on the ventricle in each fig- C ure. Each of these vectors is then analyzed by the method described in the preceding section to determine the volt- ages that will be recorded at each instant in each of the III II three standard electrocardiographic leads. To the right + + in each Figure is shown progressive development of the Figure 12-6 Determination of projected vectors in leads I, II, and III electrocardiographic QRS complex. Keep in mind that a when vector A represents the instantaneous potential in the ventricles. positive vector in a lead will cause recording in the ECG above the zero line, whereas a negative vector will cause when the heart vector has almost exactly the same axis as recording below the zero line. the lead axis, essentially the entire voltage of the vector will Before proceeding with further consideration of be recorded. vectorial analysis, it is essential that this analysis of the successive normal vectors presented in Figure 12-7 be Vectorial Analysis of Potentials in the Three Stand- understood. Each of these analyses should be studied in ard Bipolar Limb Leads. In Figure 12-6, vector A de- detail by the procedure given here. A short summary of picts the instantaneous electrical potential of a partially this sequence follows. depolarized heart. To determine the potential recorded at In Figure 12-7A, the ventricular muscle has just begun this instant in
