Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the instantaneous electrical potential of a partially this sequence follows. depolarized heart. To determine the potential recorded at In Figure 12-7A, the ventricular muscle has just begun this instant in the ECG for each one of the three standard to be depolarized, representing an instant about 0.01 second bipolar limb leads, perpendicular lines (the dashed lines) after the onset of depolarization. At this time, the vector is are drawn from the tip of vector A to the three lines rep- short because only a small portion of the ventricles—the resenting the axes of the three different standard leads, as septum—is depolarized. Therefore, all electrocardiographic shown in the figure. The projected vector B depicts the voltages are low, as recorded to the right of the ventricular potential recorded at that instant in lead I, projected vec- muscle for each of the leads. The voltage in lead II is greater tor C depicts the potential in lead II, and projected vec- than the voltages in leads I and III because the heart vector tor D depicts the potential in lead III. In each of these, extends mainly in the same direction as the axis of lead II. the record in the ECG is positive—that is, above the zero In Figure 12-7B, which represents about 0.02 sec- line—because the projected vectors point in the positive ond after onset of depolarization, the heart vector is long directions along the axes of all the leads. The potential in because much of the ventricular muscle mass has become lead I (vector B) is about half of that of the actual potential depolarized. Therefore, the voltages in all electrocardio- in the heart (vector A), in lead II (vector C), it is almost graphic leads have increased. 145 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart − − − − II III II III I I I I I I − + − + II II III II III II + + + + III III A B − − − − II III II III I I I I I I − + − + II II III II III II + + + + III III C D − − II III I I I − + II III II + + III E Figure 12-7 Shaded areas of the ventricles are depolarized (−); nonshaded areas are still polarized (+). Shown are the ventricular vectors and QRS complexes
