Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


III II + + III E Figure 12-7 Shaded areas of the ventricles are depolarized (−); nonshaded areas are still polarized (+). Shown are the ventricular vectors and QRS complexes 0.01 second after onset of ventricular depolarization (A), 0.02 second after onset of depolarization (B), 0.035 second after onset of depolarization (C), 0.05 second after onset of depolarization (D), and after depolarization of the ventricles is complete, 0.06 second after onset (E). In Figure 12-7C, about 0.035 second after onset of In Figure 12-7E, about 0.06 second after onset of depo- depolarization, the heart vector is becoming shorter, and larization, the entire ventricular muscle mass is depolarized the recorded electrocardiographic voltages are lower, so that no current flows around the heart and no electrical because the outside of the heart apex is now electronega- potential is generated. The vector becomes zero, and the tive, neutralizing much of the positivity on the other epi- voltages in all leads become zero. cardial surfaces of the heart. Also, the axis of the vector is Thus, the QRS complexes are completed in the three beginning to shift toward the left side of the chest because standard bipolar limb leads. the left ventricle is slightly slower to depolarize than the Sometimes the QRS complex has a slight negative right ventricle. Therefore, the ratio of the voltage in lead I depression at its beginning in one or more of the leads, to that in lead III is increasing. which is not shown in Figure 12-7; this depression is In Figure 12-7D, about 0.05 second after onset of depo- the Q wave. When it occurs, it is caused by initial depo- larization, the heart vector points toward the base of the larization of the left side of the septum before the right left ventricle, and it is short because only a minute por- side, which creates a weak vector from left to right for a tion of the ventricular muscle is still polarized positive. fraction of a second before the usual base to apex vector Because of the direction of the vector at this time, the volt- occurs. The major positive deflection shown in Figure ages recorded in leads II and III are both negative—that is, 12-7 is the R wave, and the final negative deflection is below the line—whereas the voltage of lead I is still positive. the S wave. 146 Chapter 12 Electrocardiographic Interpretation of
