Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the heart. There- Depolarization of the atria begins in the sinus node and fore, the greatest portion of ventricular muscle mass spreads in all directions over the atria. Therefore, the point to repolarize first is the entire outer surface of the ven- of original electronegativity in the atria is at about the point tricles, especially near the apex of the heart. The endo- of entry of the superior vena cava where the sinus node cardial areas, conversely, normally repolarize last. This lies, and the direction of initial depolarization is denoted sequence of repolarization is postulated to be caused by the black vector in Figure 12-9. Furthermore, the vector by the high blood pressure inside the ventricles during remains generally in this direction throughout the process contraction, which greatly reduces coronary blood flow of normal atrial depolarization. Because this direction is to the endocardium, thereby slowing repolarization in generally in the positive directions of the axes of the three the endocardial areas. standard bipolar limb leads I, II, and III, the ECGs recorded Because the outer apical surfaces of the ventricles from the atria during depolarization are also usually posi- repolarize before the inner surfaces, the positive end of tive in all three of these leads, as shown in Figure 12-9. This the overall ventricular vector during repolarization is record of atrial depolarization is known as the atrial P wave. toward the apex of the heart. As a result, the normal T wave in all three bipolar limb leads is positive, which is Repolarization of the Atria—the Atrial T Wave. Spread also the polarity of most of the normal QRS complex. of depolarization through the atrial muscle is much slower In Figure 12-8, five stages of repolarization of the ven- than in the ventricles because the atria have no Purkinje tricles are denoted by progressive increase of the light tan system for fast conduction of the depolarization signal. areas—the repolarized areas. At each stage, the vector Therefore, the musculature around the sinus node be- extends from the base of the heart toward the apex until it comes depolarized a long time before the musculature in disappears in the last stage. At first, the vector is relatively distal parts of the atria. Consequently, the area in the atria small because the area of repolarization is small. Later, that also becomes repolarized first is the sinus nodal re- the vector becomes stronger
