Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


atria. Consequently, the area in the atria small because the area of repolarization is small. Later, that also becomes repolarized first is the sinus nodal re- the vector becomes stronger because of greater degrees gion, the area that had originally become depolarized first. 147 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Thus, when repolarization begins, the region around the sinus node becomes positive with respect to the remain- der of the atria. Therefore, the atrial repolarization vector is backward to the vector of depolarization. (Note that this is 1 2 3 4 5 opposite to the effect that occurs in the ventricles.) There- 4 fore, as shown to the right in Figure 12-9, the so-c alled atri- al T wave follows about 0.15 second after the atrial P wave, 5 but this T wave is on the opposite side of the zero reference line from the P wave; that is, it is normally negative rather 1 than positive in the three standard bipolar limb leads. 3 In a normal ECG, the atrial T wave appears at about the same time that the QRS complex of the ventricles appears. Therefore, it is almost always totally obscured by 2 the large ventricular QRS complex, although in some very Depolarization Repolarization QRS T abnormal states it does appear in the recorded ECG. Figure 12-10 QRS and T vectorcardiograms. Vectorcardiogram As noted previously, the vector of current flow through the III heart changes rapidly as the impulse spreads through the – –60(cid:31) I myocardium. It changes in two aspects. First, the vector in- creases and decreases in length because of increasing and decreasing voltage of the vector. Second, the vector changes direction because of changes in the average direction of the – + electrical potential from the heart. The vectorcardiogram I I II 180(cid:31) 0(cid:31) depicts these changes at different times during the cardiac cycle, as shown in Figure 12-10. In the large vectorcardiogram of Figure 12-10, point 5 is the zero reference point, and this point is the negative end of all the successive vectors. While the heart muscle is 120(cid:31) 59(cid:31) III polarized between heartbeats, the positive end of the vec- + tor remains at the zero point because there is no vectorial III electrical potential. However, as soon as current begins to Figure 12-11 Plotting the mean electrical axis of the ventricles from flow through the ventricles at the beginning of ventricu-
