Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


III electrical potential. However, as soon as current begins to Figure 12-11 Plotting the mean electrical axis of the ventricles from flow through the ventricles at the beginning of ventricu- two electrocardiographic leads (leads I and III). lar depolarization, the positive end of the vector leaves the zero reference point. When the septum first becomes depolarized, the vector of ventricular depolarization, the direction of the electrical extends downward toward the apex of the ventricles, but potential (negative to positive) is from the base of the it is relatively weak, thus generating the first portion of the ventricles toward the apex. This preponderant direction ventricular vectorcardiogram, as shown by the positive end of the potential during depolarization from the base to the of vector 1. As more of the ventricular muscle becomes de- apex of the heart is called the mean electrical axis of the polarized, the vector becomes stronger and stronger, usual- ventricles. The mean electrical axis of the normal ventricles ly swinging slightly to one side. Thus, vector 2 of Figure 12- is 59 degrees. In many pathological conditions of the heart, 10 represents the state of depolarization of the ventricles this direction changes markedly, sometimes even to opposite about 0.02 second after vector 1. After another 0.02 second, poles of the heart. vector 3 represents the potential, and vector 4 occurs in another 0.01 second. Finally, the ventricles become totally DETERMINING THE ELECTRICAL AXIS FROM depolarized, and the vector becomes zero once again, as shown at point 5. STANDARD LEAD ELECTROCARDIOGRAMS The elliptical figure generated by the positive ends of the Clinically, the electrical axis of the heart is usually vectors is called the QRS vectorcardiogram. estimated from the standard bipolar limb lead ECGs rather than from the vectorcardiogram. Figure 12-11 shows a MEAN ELECTRICAL AXIS OF method for performing this estimation. After recording THE VENTRICULAR QRS AND ITS the standard leads, one determines the net potential and SIGNIFICANCE polarity of the recordings in leads I and III. In lead I of Figure 12-11, the recording is positive, and in lead III, The vectorcardiogram during ventricular depolarization the recording is mainly positive but negative during part (the QRS vectorcardiogram) shown in Figure 12-10 is of the cycle. If any part of a recording is negative, this that of a normal heart. Note that during most of the cycle negative potential is subtracted from the positive part of 148
