Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


any part of a recording is negative, this that of a normal heart. Note that during most of the cycle negative potential is subtracted from the positive part of 148 Chapter 12 Electrocardiographic Interpretation of Cardiac Muscle and Coronary Blood Flow Abnormalities the potential to determine the net potential for that lead, as shown by the arrow to the right of the QRS complex for lead III. Then, each net potential for leads I and III is plotted on the axes of the respective leads, with the base of the potential at the point of intersection of the axes, as shown in Figure 12-11. To determine the vector of the total QRS ventricular I II III mean electrical potential, one draws perpendicular lines III – (the dashed lines in the figure) from the apices of leads I and III, respectively. The point of intersection of these two perpendicular (dashed) lines represents, by vectorial analysis, the apex of the mean QRS vector in the ventri- cles, and the point of intersection of the lead I and lead I – +I III axes represents the negative end of the mean vector. Therefore, the mean QRS vector is drawn between these two points. The approximate average potential generated + by the ventricles during depolarization is represented by III the length of this mean QRS vector, and the mean electri- Figure 12-12 Left axis deviation in a hypertensive heart (hypertroph- cal axis is represented by the direction of the mean vec- ic left ventricle). Note the slightly prolonged QRS complex as well. tor. Thus, the orientation of the mean electrical axis of the normal ventricles, as determined in Figure 12-11, is 59 through the hypertrophied ventricle than through the degrees positive (+59 degrees). normal ventricle. Consequently, the normal ventricle becomes depolarized considerably in advance of the hy- ABNORMAL VENTRICULAR CONDITIONS pertrophied ventricle, and this situation causes a strong THAT CAUSE AXIS DEVIATION vector from the normal side of the heart toward the hypertrophied side, which remains strongly positively Although the mean electrical axis of the ventricles aver- charged. Thus, the axis deviates toward the hypertro- ages about 59 degrees, this axis can swing, even in a nor- phied ventricle. mal heart, from about 20 degrees to about 100 degrees. The causes of the normal variations are mainly anatomical Vectorial Analysis of Left Axis Deviation Resulting differences in the Purkinje distribution system or in the
