Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


degrees to about 100 degrees. The causes of the normal variations are mainly anatomical Vectorial Analysis of Left Axis Deviation Resulting differences in the Purkinje distribution system or in the from Hypertrophy of the Left Ventricle. Figure 12-12 musculature itself of different hearts. However, a number shows the three standard bipolar limb lead ECGs. Vec- of abnormal conditions of the heart can cause axis devia- torial analysis demonstrates left axis deviation, with the tion beyond the normal limits, as described below. mean electrical axis pointing in the −15- degree direc- tion. This is a typical ECG caused by increased muscle Change in the Position of the Heart in the Chest. If mass of the left ventricle. In this case, the axis deviation the heart is angulated to the left, the mean electrical axis was caused by hypertension (high arterial blood pres- of the heart also shifts to the left. Such shift occurs (1) at sure), which caused the left ventricle to hypertrophy the end of deep expiration, (2) when a person lies down, so that it could pump blood against elevated systemic because the abdominal contents press upward against arterial pressure. A similar picture of left axis deviation the diaphragm, and (3) quite frequently in obese peo- occurs when the left ventricle hypertrophies as a result ple, whose diaphragms normally press upward against of aortic valvular stenosis, aortic valvular regurgitation, the heart all the time as a result of increased visceral or congenital heart conditions in which the left ventricle adiposity. enlarges while the right ventricle remains relatively nor- Likewise, angulation of the heart to the right causes the mal in size. mean electrical axis of the ventricles to shift to the right. This shift occurs (1) at the end of deep inspiration, (2) Vectorial Analysis of Right Axis Deviation Resulting when a person stands up, and (3) normally in tall lanky from Hypertrophy of the Right Ventricle. The ECG of people whose hearts hang downward. Figure 12-13 shows intense right axis deviation, to an electrical axis of 170 degrees, which is 111 degrees to the Hypertrophy of One Ventricle. When one ventricle right of the normal 59- degree mean ventricular QRS axis. hypertrophies greatly, the axis of the heart shifts toward The right axis deviation demonstrated in this figure was the hypertrophied ventricle for two reasons. First, there caused by hypertrophy of the right ventricle as a result of
