Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


shifts toward The right axis deviation demonstrated in this figure was the hypertrophied ventricle for two reasons. First, there caused by hypertrophy of the right ventricle as a result of is more muscle on the hypertrophied side of the heart congenital pulmonary valve stenosis. Right axis deviation than on the other side, which allows for the generation also can occur in other congenital heart conditions that of greater electrical potential on that side. Second, more cause hypertrophy of the right ventricle, such as tetralogy time is required for the depolarization wave to travel of Fallot and interventricular septal defect. 149 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart I II III III I II III – III – I – +I I – +I + III Figure 12-14 Left axis deviation caused by left bundle branch block. + III Note also the greatly prolonged QRS complex. Figure 12-13 A high- voltage electrocardiogram for a person with Because of slowness of impulse conduction when the congenital pulmonary valve stenosis with right ventricular hypertro- Purkinje system is blocked, in addition to axis devia- phy. Intense right axis deviation and a slightly prolonged QRS com- tion, the duration of the QRS complex is greatly pro- plex are also seen. longed as a result of extreme slowness of depolarization in the affected side of the heart. One can see this effect Bundle Branch Block Causes Axis Deviation. Ordi- by observing the excessive widths of the QRS waves in narily, the lateral walls of the two ventricles depolarize at Figure 12-14 (discussed in greater detail later in this almost the same instant because both the left and right chapter). This extremely prolonged QRS complex differ- bundle branches of the Purkinje system transmit the car- entiates bundle branch block from axis deviation caused diac impulse to the two ventricular walls at almost the by hypertrophy. same time. As a result, the potentials generated by the two ventricles (on the two opposite sides of the heart) almost Vectorial Analysis of Right Axis Deviation in Right neutralize each other. However, if only one of the major Bundle Branch Block. When the right bundle branch bundle branches is blocked, the cardiac impulse spreads is blocked, the left ventricle depolarizes far more rapidly through the normal ventricle before it spreads through than the right ventricle, and thus the left side of the ven- the other ventricle. Therefore, depolarization of the two tricles
