Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rapidly through the normal ventricle before it spreads through than the right ventricle, and thus the left side of the ven- the other ventricle. Therefore, depolarization of the two tricles becomes electronegative as long as 0.1 second be- ventricles does not occur, even nearly at the same time, fore the right. Therefore, a strong vector develops, with its and the depolarization potentials do not neutralize each negative end toward the left ventricle and its positive end other. As a result, axis deviation occurs as follows. toward the right ventricle. In other words, intense right Vectorial Analysis of Left Axis Deviation in Left B undle axis deviation occurs. In Figure 12-15, right axis devia- tion caused by right bundle branch block is demonstrated, Branch Block. When the left bundle branch is blocked, and its vector is analyzed; this analysis shows an axis of cardiac depolarization spreads through the right ventricle about 105 degrees instead of the normal 59 degrees and a two to three times as rapidly as through the left ventricle. prolonged QRS complex because of slow conduction. Consequently, much of the left ventricle remains polar- ized for as long as 0.1 second after the right ventricle has CONDITIONS THAT CAUSE ABNORMAL become totally depolarized. Thus, the right ventricle be- VOLTAGES OF THE QRS COMPLEX comes electronegative, whereas the left ventricle remains electropositive during most of the depolarization process, INCREASED VOLTAGE IN THE STANDARD and a strong vector projects from the right ventricle toward BIPOLAR LIMB LEADS the left ventricle. In other words, intense left axis deviation of about −50 degrees occurs because the positive end of Normally, the voltages in the three standard bipolar the vector points toward the left ventricle. This situation limb leads, as measured from the peak of the R wave is demonstrated in Figure 12-14, which shows typical left to the bottom of the S wave, vary between 0.5 and 2.0 axis deviation resulting from left bundle branch block. millivolts, with lead III usually recording the lowest 150 Chapter 12 Electrocardiographic Interpretation of Cardiac Muscle and Coronary Blood Flow Abnormalities III I – I– +I II I II III + III Figure 12-15 Right axis deviation caused by right bundle branch block. Note also the greatly prolonged QRS complex. III Figure 12-16 A low-v oltage electrocardiogram following local damage throughout the ventricles caused by a previous myocardial infarction. voltage and lead II the highest voltage.
