Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


greatly prolonged QRS complex. III Figure 12-16 A low-v oltage electrocardiogram following local damage throughout the ventricles caused by a previous myocardial infarction. voltage and lead II the highest voltage. However, these relationships are not invariable, even for the normal Decreased Voltage Caused by Conditions Surrounding heart. In general, when the sum of the voltages of the Heart. One of the most important causes of decreased all the QRS complexes of the three standard leads is voltage in electrocardiographic leads is excessive fluid in the greater than 4 millivolts, the patient is considered to pericardium (pericardial effusion). Because extracellular flu- have a high- voltage ECG. id easily conducts electrical currents, a large portion of the The cause of high- voltage QRS complexes is usu- electricity flowing out of the heart is conducted from one ally increased muscle mass of the heart, which ordinar- part of the heart to another through the pericardial fluid. ily results from hypertrophy of the muscle in response to Thus, this effusion effectively “short-c ircuits” the electrical excessive load on one part of the heart or the other. For potentials generated by the heart, decreasing the electro- example, the right ventricle hypertrophies when it must cardiographic voltages that reach the outside surfaces of pump blood through a stenotic pulmonary valve or when the body. Pleural effusion, to a lesser extent, also can short- the pulmonary arterial pressure is elevated, and the left circuit the electricity around the heart so that the voltages ventricle hypertrophies when a person has high systemic at the surface of the body and in the ECGs are decreased. arterial blood pressure. The increased quantity of muscle Pulmonary emphysema can decrease the electrocar- generates increased electricity around the heart. As a diographic potentials, but for a different reason than result, the electrical potentials recorded in the electrocar- that of pericardial effusion. In persons with pulmonary diographic leads are considerably greater than normal, as emphysema, conduction of electrical current through the shown in Figures 12- 12 and 12- 13. lungs is depressed considerably because of an excessive quantity of air in the lungs. Also, the chest cavity enlarges, and the lungs tend to envelop the heart to a greater extent DECREASED VOLTAGE OF THE than normal. Therefore, the lungs act as an insulator to ELECTROCARDIOGRAM prevent the spread of electrical voltage from the heart to Decreased Voltage Caused by Cardiac Myopathies. the surface of
