Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


than normal. Therefore, the lungs act as an insulator to ELECTROCARDIOGRAM prevent the spread of electrical voltage from the heart to Decreased Voltage Caused by Cardiac Myopathies. the surface of the body, which results in decreased elec- trocardiographic potentials in the various leads. One of the most common causes of decreased voltage of the QRS complex is a series of old myocardial in- PROLONGED AND BIZARRE PATTERNS farctions with resultant diminished muscle mass. This OF THE QRS COMPLEX condition also causes the depolarization wave to move through the ventricles slowly and prevents major por- CARDIAC HYPERTROPHY OR DILATION tions of the heart from becoming massively depolar- PROLONG THE QRS COMPLEX ized all at once. Consequently, this condition causes some prolongation of the QRS complex, along with the The QRS complex lasts as long as depolarization con- decreased voltage. Figure 12-16 shows a typical low- tinues to spread through the ventricles—that is, as long voltage ECG with prolongation of the QRS complex, as part of the ventricles is depolarized and part is still which is common after multiple small infarctions of polarized. Therefore, prolonged conduction of the impulse the heart have caused local delays of impulse conduc- through the ventricles always causes a prolonged QRS tion and reduced voltages due to loss of muscle mass complex. Such prolongation often occurs when one or throughout the ventricles. Infiltrative myocardial dis- both ventricles are hypertrophied or dilated because of eases also cause low ECG voltage. For example, in car- the longer pathway that the impulse must then travel. The diac amyloidosis, abnormal proteins infiltrate the myo- normal QRS complex lasts 0.06 to 0.08 second, whereas cardium, leading to reduced voltages, particularly in in hypertrophy or dilation of the left or right ventricle, the the limb leads. QRS complex may be prolonged to 0.09 to 0.12 second. 151 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart PURKINJE SYSTEM BLOCK PROLONGS CURRENT OF INJURY THE QRS COMPLEX Many different cardiac abnormalities, especially those that When the Purkinje fibers are blocked, the cardiac impulse damage the heart muscle, may cause part of the heart to must then be conducted by the ventricular muscle instead remain partially or totally depolarized all the time. When of through the Purkinje system. This action decreases this condition occurs, current flows between the patho- the velocity of impulse conduction to about one-third of logically depolarized and normally polarized areas, even normal. Therefore, if
