Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This action decreases this condition occurs, current flows between the patho- the velocity of impulse conduction to about one-third of logically depolarized and normally polarized areas, even normal. Therefore, if complete block of one of the bundle between heartbeats. This condition is called a current of branches occurs, the duration of the QRS complex is usu- injury. Note especially that the injured part of the heart is ally increased to 0.14 second or longer. negative, because this is the part that is depolarized and In general, a QRS complex is considered to be abnor- emits negative charges into the surrounding fluids, whereas mally long when it lasts more than 0.09 second. When the remainder of the heart is neutral or in positive polarity. it lasts more than 0.12 second, the prolongation is Some abnormalities that can cause a current of injury almost certainly caused by a pathological block some- are as follows: (1) mechanical trauma, which sometimes where in the ventricular conduction system, as shown makes the membranes remain so permeable that full by the ECGs for bundle branch block in Figures. 12-1 4 repolarization cannot take place; (2) infectious processes and 12-1 5. that damage the muscle membranes; and (3) ischemia of local areas of heart muscle caused by local coronary occlu- CONDITIONS THAT CAUSE BIZARRE QRS sions, which is the most common cause of a current of COMPLEXES injury in the heart. During ischemia, not enough nutri- ents from the coronary blood supply are available to the Bizarre patterns of the QRS complex are usually caused heart muscle to maintain normal membrane polarization. by two conditions: (1) destruction of cardiac muscle EFFECT OF CURRENT OF INJURY ON THE in various areas throughout the ventricular system, QRS COMPLEX with replacement of this muscle by scar tissue; and (2) multiple small local blocks in the conduction of In Figure 12-17, a small area in the base of the left ven- impulses at many points in the Purkinje system. As a tricle is newly infarcted (i.e., there is loss of coronary result, cardiac impulse conduction becomes irregular, blood flow). Therefore, during the T- P interval—that is, causing rapid shifts in voltages and axis deviations. when the normal ventricular muscle is totally polarized— This irregularity often causes double or even triple abnormal negative current still flows from the infarcted peaks in some of the electrocardiographic leads, such area at the base of
