Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


polarized— This irregularity often causes double or even triple abnormal negative current still flows from the infarcted peaks in some of the electrocardiographic leads, such area at the base of the left ventricle and spreads toward as those shown in Figure 12-14. the rest of the ventricles. Injured area − − II III I I − + III II + + I J II Current Current of injury of injury J III J Figure 12-17 Effect of a current of injury on the electrocardiogram. 152 Chapter 12 Electrocardiographic Interpretation of Cardiac Muscle and Coronary Blood Flow Abnormalities The vector of this current of injury, as shown in the the end of the QRS complex. At exactly this point, all first heart in Figure 12-17, is in a direction of about 125 parts of the ventricles have become depolarized, includ- degrees, with the base of the vector, the negative end, ing both the damaged parts and the normal parts, so no toward the injured muscle. As shown in the lower por- current is flowing around the heart. Even the current of tions of the figure, even before the QRS complex begins, injury disappears at this point. Therefore, the potential this vector causes an initial record in lead I below the zero of the electrocardiogram at this instant is at zero voltage. potential line, because the projected vector of the current This point is known as the J point in the ECG, as shown of injury in lead I points toward the negative end of the in Figure 12-18. lead I axis. In lead II, the record is above the line because Then, for analysis of the electrical axis of the injury the projected vector points more toward the positive ter- potential caused by a current of injury, a horizontal line minal of the lead. In lead III, the projected vector points is drawn in the ECG for each lead at the level of the J in the same direction as the positive terminal of lead III so point. This horizontal line is then the zero potential level that the record is positive. Furthermore, because the vec- in the ECG from which all potentials caused by currents tor lies almost exactly in the direction of the axis of lead of injury must be measured. III, the voltage of the current of injury in lead III is much greater than in either lead
