Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the direction of the axis of lead of injury must be measured. III, the voltage of the current of injury in lead III is much greater than in either lead I or lead II. Use of the J Point in Plotting Axis of Injury Potential. As the heart then proceeds through its normal process Figure 12-18 shows ECGs (leads I and III) from an in- of depolarization, the septum first becomes depolarized; jured heart. Both records show injury potentials. In other then the depolarization spreads down to the apex and words, the J point of each of these two ECGs is not on the back toward the bases of the ventricles. The last portion same line as the T- P segment. In the figure, a horizontal of the ventricles to become totally depolarized is the base line has been drawn through the J point to represent the of the right ventricle because the base of the left ventricle zero voltage level in each of the two recordings. The injury is already totally and permanently depolarized. By vecto- potential in each lead is the difference between the voltage rial analysis, the successive stages of electrocardiographic of the ECG immediately before onset of the P wave and generation by the depolarization wave traveling through the zero voltage level determined from the J point. In lead the ventricles can be constructed graphically, as demon- I, the recorded voltage of the injury potential is above the strated in the lower part of Figure 12-17. zero potential level and is therefore positive. Conversely, When the heart becomes totally depolarized, at the in lead III, the injury potential is below the zero voltage end of the depolarization process (as noted by the next level and therefore is negative. to last stage in Figure 12-17), all the ventricular muscle is At the bottom in Figure 12-18, the respective injury in a negative state. Therefore, at this instant in the ECG, potentials in leads I and III are plotted on the coordi- no current flows from the ventricles to the electrocardio- nates of these leads, and the resultant vector of the injury graphic electrodes because now both the injured heart potential for the whole ventricular muscle mass is deter- muscle and the contracting muscle are depolarized. mined by vectorial analysis as described. In this case, the Next, as repolarization takes place, all the heart finally repolarizes, except the
