Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


deter- muscle and the contracting muscle are depolarized. mined by vectorial analysis as described. In this case, the Next, as repolarization takes place, all the heart finally repolarizes, except the area of permanent depolarization I in the injured base of the left ventricle. Thus, repolariza- +− 0 0 tion causes a return of the current of injury in each lead, as noted at the far right in Figure 12-17. J point J point THE J POINT IS THE ZERO REFERENCE III POTENTIAL FOR ANALYZING CURRENT OF INJURY 0 +− 0 One might think that the ECG machines could determine when no current is flowing around the heart. However, III − many stray currents exist in the body, such as currents resulting from skin potentials and from differences in ionic concentrations in different fluids of the body. There- fore, when two electrodes are connected between the I− +I arms or between an arm and a leg, these stray currents make it impossible to predetermine the exact zero refer- ence level in the ECG. + For these reasons, the following procedure must be III used to determine the zero potential level: First, one notes Figure 12-18 J point as the zero reference potential of the electro- the exact point at which the wave of depolarization just cardiograms for leads I and III. Also, the method for plotting the axis completes its passage through the heart, which occurs at of the injury potential is shown in the bottom panel. 153 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart resultant vector extends from the right side of the ven- 12- 20. Therefore, one of the most important diagnostic tricles toward the left and slightly upward, with an axis of features of ECGs recorded after acute coronary thrombo- about −30 degrees. If one places this vector for the injury sis is the current of injury. potential directly over the ventricles, the negative end of the vector points toward the permanently depolarized, Acute Anterior Wall Infarction. Figure 12-19 shows the “injured” area of the ventricles. In the example shown in ECG in the three standard bipolar limb leads and in one Figure 12-18, the injured area would be in the lateral wall chest lead (lead V 2) recorded from a patient with acute of the right ventricle. anterior wall cardiac infarction. The most important diag- This analysis is obviously complex. However, it is nostic feature of this ECG
