Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from a patient with acute of the right ventricle. anterior wall cardiac infarction. The most important diag- This analysis is obviously complex. However, it is nostic feature of this ECG is the intense injury potential in essential that the student review it again and again until chest lead V . If one draws a zero horizontal potential line 2 it is thoroughly understood. No other aspect of electrocar- through the J point of this ECG, a strong negative injury po- diographic analysis is more important. tential during the T-P interval is found, which means that the chest electrode over the front of the heart is in an area CORONARY ISCHEMIA AS A CAUSE OF of strongly negative potential. In other words, the negative INJURY POTENTIAL end of the injury potential vector in this heart is against the anterior chest wall. This means that the current of injury is Insufficient blood flow to the cardiac muscle depresses the emanating from the anterior wall of the ventricles, which metabolism of the muscle for at least three reasons: (1) lack diagnoses this condition as an anterior wall infarction. of oxygen; (2) excess accumulation of carbon dioxide; and When analyzing the injury potentials in leads I and (3) lack of sufficient food nutrients. Consequently, repolar- III, one finds a negative potential in lead I and a positive ization of the muscle membrane cannot occur in areas of potential in lead III. This finding means that the resultant severe myocardial ischemia. Often, the heart muscle does vector of the injury potential in the heart is about +150 not die because the blood flow is sufficient to maintain life degrees, with the negative end pointing toward the left of the muscle, even though it is not sufficient to cause nor- ventricle and the positive end pointing toward the right mal repolarization of the membranes. As long as this state ventricle. Thus, in this ECG, the current of injury is com- exists, an injury potential continues to flow during the dia- ing mainly from the left ventricle, as well as from the ante- stolic portion (the T-P portion) of each heart cycle. rior wall of the heart. Therefore, one would conclude that Extreme ischemia of the cardiac muscle occurs after this anterior wall infarction almost certainly is caused by coronary occlusion, and a strong current of injury flows thrombosis of the anterior descending branch of the left
