Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


muscle occurs after this anterior wall infarction almost certainly is caused by coronary occlusion, and a strong current of injury flows thrombosis of the anterior descending branch of the left from the infarcted area of the ventricles during the T- P coronary artery. interval between heartbeats, as shown in Figs. 12- 19 and T-P segment I II III V 2 I II III II III – – III – I– +I + III + + V 2 III II Figure 12-19 Current of injury in acute anterior wall infarction. Note Figure 12-20 Injury potential in an acute posterior wall, apical infarc- the intense injury potential in lead V . tion. 2 154 Chapter 12 Electrocardiographic Interpretation of Cardiac Muscle and Coronary Blood Flow Abnormalities Posterior Wall Infarction. Figure 12-20 shows the three ter about 1 week, the injury potential has diminished con- standard bipolar limb leads and one chest lead (lead V ) siderably and, after 3 weeks, it is gone. After that, the ECG 2 from a patient with a posterior wall infarction. The major does not change greatly during the next year. This is the diagnostic feature of this ECG is also in the chest lead. usual recovery pattern after an acute myocardial infarc- If a zero potential reference line is drawn through the J tion of moderate degree, showing that the new collateral point of this lead, it is readily apparent that during the coronary blood flow develops enough to re-e stablish ap- T- P interval, the potential of the current of injury is posi- propriate nutrition to most of the infarcted area. tive. This means that the positive end of the vector is in In some patients who experience myocardial infarc- the direction of the anterior chest wall, and the negative tion, the infarcted area never redevelops adequate cor- end (the injured end of the vector) points away from the onary blood supply. Often, some of the heart muscle chest wall. In other words, the current of injury is coming dies but, if the muscle does not die, it will continue to from the back of the heart opposite to the anterior chest show an injury potential as long as the ischemia exists, wall, which is the reason this type of ECG is the basis for particularly during bouts of exercise when the heart is diagnosing posterior wall infarction. overloaded. If one analyzes the injury potentials
