Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the reason this type of ECG is the basis for particularly during bouts of exercise when the heart is diagnosing posterior wall infarction. overloaded. If one analyzes the injury potentials from leads II and III of Figure 12-20, it is readily apparent that the injury Q Waves on an ECG Represent Old Myocardial Infarc- potential is negative in both leads. By vectorial analysis, as tion. Figure 12-22 shows leads I and III after anterior shown in the figure, one finds that the resultant vector of and posterior infarctions about 1 year after the acute heart the injury potential is about −95 degrees, with the nega- attacks. Usually, a Q wave has developed at the beginning tive end pointing downward and the positive end pointing of the QRS complex in lead I in anterior infarction be- upward. Thus, because the infarct, as indicated by the chest cause of the loss of muscle mass in the anterior wall of the lead, is on the posterior wall of the heart and, as indicated left ventricle but, in a posterior infarction, a Q wave has by the injury potentials in leads II and III, it is in the apical developed at the beginning of the QRS complex in lead portion of the heart, one would suspect that this infarct III because of loss of muscle in the posterior apical part is near the apex on the posterior wall of the left ventricle. of the ventricle. These configurations are certainly not found in all Infarction in Other Parts of the Heart. Using the same cases of old myocardial infarction. Local loss of muscle procedures demonstrated in the preceding discussions of and local points of cardiac signal conduction block anterior and posterior wall infarctions, it is often possi- can cause very bizarre QRS patterns (e.g., especially ble to determine the locus of an infarcted area emitting prominent Q waves), decreased voltage, and QRS a current of injury. In making such vectorial analyses, it prolongation. should be remembered that the positive end of the injury potential vector points toward the normal cardiac muscle, Current of Injury in Angina Pectoris. The term angina and the negative end points toward the injured portion of pectoris means pain from the heart felt in the pectoral re- the heart that is emitting the current of injury. gions of the chest. This pain usually also radiates into the ECG Progression During and
