Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


heart felt in the pectoral re- the heart that is emitting the current of injury. gions of the chest. This pain usually also radiates into the ECG Progression During and After Acute Coronary left neck area and down the left arm. The pain is typi- Thrombosis. Figure 12-21 shows a V 3 chest lead from cally caused by moderate ischemia of the heart. Usually, a patient with an acute anterior wall infarction, demon- no pain is felt as long as the person is quiet, but as soon as strating changes in the ECG from the day of the attack to the heart is overworked, the pain appears. 1 week later, 3 weeks later and, finally. 1 year later. From An injury potential sometimes appears on the ECG this ECG, one can see that the injury potential is strong during an attack of severe angina pectoris because the immediately after the acute attack (the T- P segment is coronary insufficiency becomes great enough to prevent displaced positively from the S- T segment). However, af- adequate repolarization of some areas of the heart during diastole. Anterior Posterior Q Q I III I III Normal During 1 day Weeks Years Figure 12-22 Electrocardiograms of anterior and posterior wall in- Figure 12-21 Recovery of the myocardium after anterior wall infarc- farctions that occurred about 1 year previously, showing a Q wave tion, demonstrating the disappearance of the injury potential that is in lead I in an anterior wall infarction and a Q wave in lead III in a present on the first day after the infarction. posterior wall infarction. 155 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart ABNORMALITIES IN THE T WAVE T T T T Earlier in the chapter, we noted that the T wave is nor- mally positive in all the standard bipolar limb leads, and that this is caused by repolarization of the apex and outer surfaces of the ventricles ahead of the intraventricular surfaces. That is, the T wave becomes abnormal when the Figure 12-23 An inverted T wave resulting from mild ischemia at the normal sequence of repolarization does not occur. Several base of the ventricles. factors, including myocardial ischemia, can change this sequence of repolarization. EFFECT OF SLOW CONDUCTION OF THE DEPOLARIZATION WAVE ON THE T T CHARACTERISTICS OF THE T WAVE Referring to Figure 12-14, note that the QRS complex is considerably prolonged. The reason for this prolongation
