Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


OF THE DEPOLARIZATION WAVE ON THE T T CHARACTERISTICS OF THE T WAVE Referring to Figure 12-14, note that the QRS complex is considerably prolonged. The reason for this prolongation is delayed conduction in the left ventricle resulting from left bundle branch block. This delayed conduction causes Figure 12-24 A biphasic T wave caused by digitalis toxicity. the left ventricle to become depolarized about 0.08 second after depolarization of the right ventricle, which Mild ischemia is the most common cause of short- gives a strong mean QRS vector to the left. However, ening of depolarization of cardiac muscle because this the refractory periods of the right and left ventricular condition increases current flow through the potas- muscle masses are not greatly different from each other. sium channels. When the ischemia occurs in only one Therefore, the right ventricle begins to repolarize long area of the heart, the depolarization period of this area before the left ventricle, which causes strong positivity in decreases out of proportion to that in other portions. the right ventricle and negativity in the left ventricle when As a result, changes in the T- wave morphology, such the T wave is developing. In other words, the mean axis of as inversion or biphasic waveforms, can be evidence of the T wave is now deviated to the right, which is opposite myocardial ischemia. The ischemia might result from to the mean electrical axis of the QRS complex in the chronic, progressive coronary stenosis (narrowing), same ECG. Thus, when conduction of the depolarization acute coronary occlusion, coronary artery spasm, or rel- impulse through the ventricles is greatly delayed, the T ative coronary insufficiency that occurs during exercise wave is almost always of opposite polarity to that of the or severe anemia. QRS complex. SHORTENED DEPOLARIZATION IN Effect of Digitalis on the T Wave. As discussed in PORTIONS OF THE VENTRICULAR MUSCLE Chapter 22, digitalis is a drug that can be used during CAN CAUSE T-WAVE ABNORMALITIES heart failure to increase the strength of cardiac muscle contraction. However, when an overdose of digitalis is If the base of the ventricles should exhibit an abnormally given, depolarization duration in one part of the ventri- short period of depolarization—that is, a shortened action cles may be increased out of proportion to that of other potential—repolarization of the ventricles would not begin parts. As a result, nonspecific changes, such as T- wave in-
