Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


action cles may be increased out of proportion to that of other potential—repolarization of the ventricles would not begin parts. As a result, nonspecific changes, such as T- wave in- at the apex, as it normally does. Instead, the base of the ven- version or biphasic T waves, may occur in one or more of tricles would repolarize ahead of the apex, and the vector of the electrocardiographic leads. A biphasic T wave caused repolarization would point from the apex toward the base by excessive administration of digitalis is shown in Figure of the heart, opposite to the standard vector of repolariza- 12-24. Therefore, changes in the T wave during digitalis tion. Consequently, the T wave in all three standard leads administration are often the earliest signs of digitalis tox- would be negative rather than the usual positive. Thus, icity. the simple fact that the base of the ventricles has a short- ened period of depolarization is sufficient to cause marked Bibliography changes in the T wave, even to the extent of changing the entire T- wave polarity, as shown in Figure 12-23. See the bibliography for Chapter 13. 156 CHAPTER 1 3 Cardiac Arrhythmias and Their Electrocardiographic Interpretation Some of the most distressing types of heart malfunc- Many factors can cause the sympathetic nervous tion occur because of abnormal rhythm of the heart. For system to excite the heart, as discussed in this text. For example, sometimes the beat of the atria is not coordi- example, when a patient sustains severe blood loss, sym- nated with the beat of the ventricles, so the atria no longer pathetic reflex stimulation of the heart may increase the function to optimize ventricular filling. heart rate to 150 to 180 beats/min. Simple weakening of The purpose of this chapter is to discuss the physiology the myocardium usually increases the heart rate because of common cardiac arrhythmias and their effects on heart the weakened heart does not pump blood into the arte- pumping, as well as their diagnosis by electrocardiogra- rial tree to a normal extent, causing reductions in blood phy. The causes of the cardiac arrhythmias are usually one pressure and eliciting sympathetic reflexes to increase the or a combination of the following abnormalities in the heart rate. rhythmicity- conduction system of the heart: • Abnormal rhythmicity of the pacemaker BRADYCARDIA • Shift of the pacemaker from the sinus node to an- other
