Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


abnormalities in the heart rate. rhythmicity- conduction system of the heart: • Abnormal rhythmicity of the pacemaker BRADYCARDIA • Shift of the pacemaker from the sinus node to an- other place in the heart The term bradycardia means a slow heart rate, usually • Blocks at different points in the spread of the impulse defined as fewer than 60 beats/min. Bradycardia is shown through the heart by the ECG in Figure 13-2. • Abnormal pathways of impulse transmission through the heart Bradycardia in Athletes. The well- trained athlete’s heart • Spontaneous generation of spurious impulses in al- is often larger and considerably stronger than that of a nor- most any part of the heart mal person, which allows the athlete’s heart to pump a large stroke volume output per beat, even during periods of rest. ABNORMAL SINUS RHYTHMS When the athlete is at rest, increased quantities of blood pumped into the arterial tree with each beat initiate feedback TACHYCARDIA circulatory reflexes or other effects that cause bradycardia. The term tachycardia means fast heart rate, which usu- Vagal Stimulation Causes Bradycardia. Any circula- ally is defined as faster than 100 beats/min in an adult. An tory reflex that stimulates the vagus nerves causes release electrocardiogram (ECG) recorded from a patient with of acetylcholine at the vagal endings in the heart, resulting tachycardia is shown in Figure 13-1. This ECG is normal in a parasympathetic effect. Perhaps the most striking ex- except that the heart rate, as determined from the time ample of this phenomenon occurs in patients with carotid intervals between QRS complexes, is about 150 beats/ sinus syndrome. In these patients, the pressure receptors min instead of the normal 72 beats/min. Some causes of (baroreceptors) in the carotid sinus region of the carotid tachycardia include increased body temperature, dehy- artery walls are excessively sensitive. Therefore, even mild dration, blood loss anemia, stimulation of the heart by the external pressure on the neck elicits a strong barorecep- sympathetic nerves, and toxic conditions of the heart. tor reflex, causing intense vagal-a cetylcholine effects on The heart rate usually increases about 10 beats/min for the heart, including extreme bradycardia. Sometimes this each degree Fahrenheit increase in body temperature (with reflex is so powerful that it actually stops the heart for 5 an increase of 18 beats/min for each degree Celsius), up to to 10 seconds, leading to loss of consciousness (syncope). a body
