Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that it actually stops the heart for 5 an increase of 18 beats/min for each degree Celsius), up to to 10 seconds, leading to loss of consciousness (syncope). a body temperature of about 105°F (40.5°C). Beyond this, the heart rate may decrease because of progressive debil- SINUS ARRHYTHMIA ity of the heart muscle as a result of the fever. Fever causes tachycardia because an increased temperature increases Figure 13-3 shows a cardiotachometer recording of the rate of metabolism of the sinus node, which in turn the heart rate, at first during normal respiration and directly increases its excitability and rate of rhythm. then, in the second half of the record, during deep 157 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart SA block Figure 13-1. Sinus tachycardia (lead I). Figure 13-4. Sinoatrial (SA) nodal block, with atrioventricular nodal rhythm during the block period (lead III). sinus node, inflammation or infection of the heart, or side effects from certain medications, and it can be observed in well- trained athletes. ATRIOVENTRICULAR BLOCK Figure 13-2. Sinus bradycardia (lead III). The only means whereby impulses ordinarily can pass 60 70 from the atria into the ventricles is through the A- V 80 100 bundle, also known as the bundle of His. Conditions that 120 can either decrease the rate of impulse conduction in this Figure 13-3. Sinus arrhythmia as recorded by a cardiotachometer. bundle or block the impulse entirely are as follows: To the left is the record when the subject was breathing normally; to 1. Ischemia of the A- V node or A- V bundle fibers of- the right, when the subject was breathing deeply. ten delays or blocks conduction from the atria to the ventricles. Coronary insufficiency can cause is- respiration. A cardiotachometer is an instrument that chemia of the A- V node and bundle in the same way records the duration of the interval between the suc- that it can cause ischemia of the myocardium. cessive QRS complexes in the ECG by the height of suc- 2. Compression of the A- V bundle by scar tissue or by cessive spikes. Note from this record that the heart rate calcified portions of the heart can depress or block increased and decreased no more than 5% during quiet conduction from the atria to the ventricles. respiration (shown on the left half of the record). Then, 3. Inflammation of the A- V node or A- V
