Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


5% during quiet conduction from the atria to the ventricles. respiration (shown on the left half of the record). Then, 3. Inflammation of the A- V node or A- V bundle can during deep respiration, the heart rate increased and depress conduction from the atria to the ventri- decreased with each respiratory cycle by as much as 30%. cles. Inflammation results frequently from different Sinus arrhythmia can result from any one of many types of myocarditis that are caused, for example, by circulatory conditions that alter the strengths of the diphtheria or rheumatic fever. sympathetic and parasympathetic nerve signals to the 4. Extreme stimulation of the heart by the vagus nerves heart sinus node. The respiratory type of sinus arrhyth- in rare cases blocks impulse conduction through mia results mainly from the spillover of signals from the A- V node. Such vagal excitation occasionally the medullary respiratory center into the adjacent results from strong stimulation of the baroreceptors vasomotor center during inspiratory and expiratory in people with carotid sinus syndrome, discussed cycles of respiration. The spillover signals cause alter- earlier in relationship to bradycardia. nate increases and decreases in the number of impulses 5. Degeneration of the A- V conduction system, which is transmitted through the sympathetic and vagus nerves sometimes seen in older patients. to the heart. 6. Medications such as digitalis or beta- adrenergic an- tagonists can, in some cases, impair A- V conduction. HEART BLOCK WITHIN THE INTRACARDIAC CONDUCTION INCOMPLETE ATRIOVENTRICULAR BLOCK PATHWAYS First- Degree Block—Prolonged P-R Interval. The usual SINOATRIAL BLOCK lapse of time between the beginning of the P wave and the beginning of the QRS complex is about 0.16 second when In rare cases, the impulse from the sinus node is blocked the heart is beating at a normal rate. This so- called P- R before it enters the atrial muscle. This phenomenon is interval usually decreases in length with a faster heartbeat demonstrated in Figure 13-4, which shows sudden ces- and increases with a slower heartbeat. In general, when sation of P waves, with resultant standstill of the atria. the P-R interval increases to more than 0.20 second, the However, the ventricles pick up a new rhythm, with the P- R interval is said to be prolonged, and the patient is said impulse usually originating spontaneously in the atrioven- to have first- degree incomplete heart block. tricular (A- V) node, so the rate
