Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


said to be prolonged, and the patient is said impulse usually originating spontaneously in the atrioven- to have first- degree incomplete heart block. tricular (A- V) node, so the rate of the ventricular QRS- T Figure 13-5 shows an ECG with a prolonged P-R inter- complex is slowed but not otherwise altered. Sinoatrial val; the interval in this case is about 0.30 second instead block can be due to myocardial ischemia affecting the of the normal 0.20 second or less. Thus, first- degree block 158 etar traeH Chapter 13 Cardiac Arrhythmias and Their Electrocardiographic Interpretation Dropped beat P P P P P P P P P Figure 13-5. Prolonged P- R interval caused by first-d egree atrioven- Figure 13-6. Type I second- degree atrioventricular block showing tricular heart block (lead II). progressive P- R prolongation prior to the dropped beat. is defined as a delay of conduction from the atria to the ventricles but not actual blockage of conduction. The P- R interval seldom increases above 0.35 to 0.45 second because, by that time, conduction through the A- V bun- P P P P P P P P P P dle is depressed so much that conduction stops entirely. One means for determining the severity of some heart diseases, such as acute rheumatic heart disease, for exam- Figure 13-7. Complete atrioventricular block (lead II). ple, is to measure the P- R interval. Second- Degree Block. When conduction through the that the rate of rhythm of the atria in this ECG is about A- V bundle is slowed enough to increase the P- R interval 100 beats/min, whereas the rate of ventricular beat is less to 0.25 to 0.45 second, the action potential is sometimes than 40 beats/min. Furthermore, there is no relationship strong enough to pass through the bundle into the ven- between the rhythm of the P waves and that of the QRS- tricles and sometimes not strong enough to do so. In this T complexes because the ventricles have “escaped” from case, there will be an atrial P wave but no QRS- T wave, control by the atria and are beating at their own natural and it is said that there are “dropped beats” of the ven- rate, controlled most often by rhythmical signals generat- tricles. This condition is called second- degree heart block. ed distal to the A- V node or A- V bundle where the block
