Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


controlled most often by rhythmical signals generat- tricles. This condition is called second- degree heart block. ed distal to the A- V node or A- V bundle where the block There are two types of second- degree A- V block— occurs. Mobitz type I (also known as Wenckebach periodicity) and Mobitz type II. Type I block is characterized by progres- Stokes-A dams Syndrome—Ventricular Escape. In some sive prolongation of the P- R interval until a ventricular patients with A- V block, the total block comes and goes; beat is dropped and is then followed by resetting of the that is, impulses are conducted from the atria into the P- R interval and repeating of the abnormal cycle. A type I ventricles for a period of time and then, suddenly, im- block is almost always caused by abnormality of the A- V pulses are not conducted. The duration of block may be node. In most cases, this type of block is benign, and no a few seconds, a few minutes, a few hours, or even weeks specific treatment is needed. or longer before conduction returns. This condition oc- In type II block, there is usually a fixed number of non- curs in hearts with borderline ischemia of the conductive conducted P waves for every QRS complex. For example, system. a 2:1 block implies that there are two P waves for every Each time A- V conduction ceases, the ventricles often QRS complex. At other times, rhythms of 3:2 or 3:1 may do not start their own beating until after a delay of 5 to 30 develop. In contrast to type I block, with type II block the seconds. This delay results from the phenomenon called P- R interval does not change before the dropped beat; overdrive suppression. Overdrive suppression means that it remains fixed. Type II block is generally caused by an ventricular excitability is at first suppressed because the abnormality of the bundle of His–Purkinje system and ventricles have been driven by the atria at a rate greater may require implantation of a pacemaker to prevent pro- than their natural rate of rhythm. However, after a few gression to complete heart block and cardiac arrest. seconds, some part of the Purkinje system beyond the Figure 13-6 shows progressive P-R interval prolonga- block, usually in the distal part of the A- V node beyond tion typical of type I (Wenckebach) block.
