Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Purkinje system beyond the Figure 13-6 shows progressive P-R interval prolonga- block, usually in the distal part of the A- V node beyond tion typical of type I (Wenckebach) block. Note prolon- the blocked point in the node, or in the A- V bundle, begins gation of the P-R interval preceding the dropped beat, discharging rhythmically at a rate of 15 to 40 times/min, followed by a shortened P-R interval after the dropped beat. acting as the pacemaker of the ventricles. This phenom- enon is called ventricular escape. Complete A- V Block (Third- Degree Block). When the Because the brain cannot remain active for more than condition causing poor conduction in the A- V node or 4 to 7 seconds without blood supply, most people faint A- V bundle becomes severe, complete block of the im- a few seconds after complete block occurs because the pulse from the atria into the ventricles occurs. In this case, heart does not pump any blood for 5 to 30 seconds, until the ventricles spontaneously establish their own signal, the ventricles “escape.” After escape, however, the slowly usually originating in the A- V node or A- V bundle dis- beating ventricles (typically beating less than 40 beats/ tal to the block. Therefore, the P waves become dissociated min) usually pump enough blood to allow rapid recov- from the QRS- T complexes, as shown in Figure 13-7. Note ery from the faint and then to sustain the person. These 159 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Premature beat Figure 13-8. Partial intraventricular block—electrical alternans (lead I). Figure 13-9. Atrial premature beat (lead I). periodic fainting spells (syncope) are known as the Stokes- Adams syndrome. Premature beat Occasionally, the interval of ventricular standstill at the onset of complete block is so long that it becomes detrimental to the patient’s health or even causes death. P T P T P T P T PT P T Consequently, most of these patients are provided with an artificial pacemaker, a small battery-o perated electri- cal stimulator planted beneath the skin, with electrodes usually connected to the right ventricle. The pacemaker Figure 13-10. Atrioventricular nodal premature contraction (lead III). provides continued rhythmical impulses to the ventricles. INCOMPLETE INTRAVENTRICULAR PREMATURE ATRIAL CONTRACTIONS BLOCK—ELECTRICAL ALTERNANS Figure 13-9 shows a single premature atrial contraction Most of the same factors that can cause A- V block can also (PAC). The P wave of this
