Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


CONTRACTIONS BLOCK—ELECTRICAL ALTERNANS Figure 13-9 shows a single premature atrial contraction Most of the same factors that can cause A- V block can also (PAC). The P wave of this beat occurred too soon in the heart block impulse conduction in the peripheral ventricular Pur- cycle; the P-R interval is shortened, indicating that the ecto- kinje system. Figure 13-8 shows the condition known as pic origin of the beat is in the atria near the A- V node. Also, electrical alternans, which results from partial intraventricu- the interval between the premature contraction and the next lar block every other heartbeat. This ECG also shows tachy- succeeding contraction is slightly prolonged, which is called cardia (rapid heart rate), which is probably the reason the a compensatory pause. One of the reasons for this compensa- block has occurred. This is because when the rate of the heart tory pause is that the premature contraction originated in the is rapid, it may be impossible for some portions of the Pur- atrium some distance from the sinus node, and the impulse kinje system to recover from the previous refractory period had to travel through a considerable amount of atrial muscle quickly enough to respond during every succeeding heart- before it discharged the sinus node. Consequently, the sinus beat. Also, many conditions that depress the heart, such as node discharged late in the premature cycle, which made the ischemia, myocarditis, or digitalis toxicity, can cause incom- succeeding sinus node discharge also late in appearing. plete intraventricular block, resulting in electrical alternans . PACs occur frequently in otherwise healthy people. They often occur in athletes whose hearts are in a very PREMATURE CONTRACTIONS healthy condition. Mild toxic conditions resulting from such factors as smoking, lack of sleep, ingestion of too A premature contraction is a contraction of the heart much coffee, alcoholism, and use of various drugs can before the time that normal contraction would have been also initiate such contractions. expected. This condition is also called extrasystole, pre- mature beat, or ectopic beat. Pulse Deficit. When the heart contracts ahead of sched- ule, the ventricles will not have filled with blood normally, CAUSES OF PREMATURE CONTRACTIONS and the stroke volume output during that contraction is depressed or is almost absent. Therefore, the pulse wave Most premature contractions result from ectopic foci in passing to the peripheral arteries after a premature con- the heart, which emit
