Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


depressed or is almost absent. Therefore, the pulse wave Most premature contractions result from ectopic foci in passing to the peripheral arteries after a premature con- the heart, which emit abnormal impulses at odd times traction may be so weak that it cannot be felt in the radial during the cardiac rhythm. Possible causes of ectopic artery. Thus, a deficit in the number of radial pulses oc- foci are as follows: (1) local areas of ischemia; (2) small curs when compared with the actual number of contrac- calcified plaques at different points in the heart, which tions of the heart. press against the adjacent cardiac muscle so that some of the fibers are irritated; and (3) toxic irritation of the A- V NODAL OR A- V BUNDLE PREMATURE A- V node, Purkinje system, or myocardium caused by CONTRACTIONS infection, drugs, nicotine, or caffeine. The mechanical initiation of premature contractions is also frequent dur- Figure 13-10 shows a premature contraction that origi- ing cardiac catheterization; large numbers of premature nated in the A- V node or A- V bundle. The P wave is contractions often occur when the catheter enters the missing from the electrocardiographic record of the pre- ventricle and presses against the endocardium. mature contraction. Instead, the P wave is superimposed 160 Chapter 13 Cardiac Arrhythmias and Their Electrocardiographic Interpretation 3. After almost all PVCs, the T wave has an electrical potential polarity exactly opposite to that of the QRS II complex because the slow conduction of the impulse through the cardiac muscle causes the muscle fibers that depolarize first also to repolarize first. Some PVCs are relatively benign in their effects on III overall pumping by the heart; they can result from such factors as cigarettes, excessive intake of coffee, lack of sleep, various mild toxic states, and even emotional irri- I −I −III tability. Conversely, many other PVCs result from stray impulses or re-e ntrant signals that originate around the borders of infarcted or ischemic areas of the heart. The presence of such PVCs is not to be taken lightly. People with significant numbers of PVCs often have a much higher than normal risk of developing spontaneous lethal ventricular fibrillation, presumably initiated by one of the PVCs. This development is especially true when the PVCs + + occur during the vulnerable period for causing fibrillation, III II just at the end of the T wave, when the
