Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This development is especially true when the PVCs + + occur during the vulnerable period for causing fibrillation, III II just at the end of the T wave, when the ventricles are com- Figure 13-11. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) demon- ing out of refractoriness, as explained later in this chapter. strated by the large abnormal QRS-T complexes (leads II and III). The axis of the premature contractions is plotted in accordance with the Vector Analysis of the Origin of an Ectopic Premature principles of vectorial analysis explained in Chapter 12 and shows the Ventricular Contraction. In Chapter 12, the principles of origin of the PVC to be near the base of the ventricles. vectorial analysis are explained. By applying these princi- ples, one can determine from the ECG in Figure 13-11 onto the QRS- T complex because the cardiac impulse the point of origin of the PVC, as follows. Note that the traveled backward into the atria at the same time that it potentials of the premature contractions in leads II and III traveled forward into the ventricles. This P wave slightly are both strongly positive. On plotting these potentials on distorts the QRS- T complex, but the P wave itself can- the axes of leads II and III and solving by vectorial analy- not be discerned as such. In general, A- V nodal prema- sis for the mean QRS vector in the heart, one finds that ture contractions have the same significance and causes the vector of this premature contraction has its negative as atrial premature contractions. end (origin) at the base of the heart and its positive end toward the apex. Thus, the first portion of the heart to PREMATURE VENTRICULAR become depolarized during this premature contraction is CONTRACTIONS near the base of the ventricles, which therefore is the ori- gin of the ectopic focus. The ECG in Figure 13-11 shows a series of premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) alternating with normal Disorders of Cardiac Repolarization—the Long QT contractions in a pattern known as bigeminy. PVCs cause Syndromes. Recall that the Q wave corresponds to ven- specific effects in the ECG, as follows: tricular depolarization, whereas the T wave corresponds 1. The QRS complex is usually considerably prolonged. to ventricular repolarization. The Q- T interval is the time The reason for this prolongation is that the impulse from the Q point to the end of the T wave. Disorders
