Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ventricular repolarization. The Q- T interval is the time The reason for this prolongation is that the impulse from the Q point to the end of the T wave. Disorders that is conducted mainly through slowly conducting delay repolarization of ventricular muscle after the action muscle of the ventricles rather than through the potential cause prolonged ventricular action potentials Purkinje system. and therefore excessively long Q- T intervals on the ECG, 2. The QRS complex has a high voltage. When the a condition called long QT syndrome (LQTS). normal impulse passes through the heart, it pass- The major reason that LQTS is of concern is that es through both ventricles nearly simultaneously. delayed repolarization of ventricular muscle increases a Consequently, in the normal heart, the depolariza- person’s susceptibility to developing ventricular arrhyth- tion waves of the two sides of the heart—mainly of mias called torsades de pointes, which literally means opposite polarity to each other—partially neutralize “twisting of the points.” This type of arrhythmia has the each other in the ECG. When a PVC occurs, the im- features shown in Figure 13-12. The shape of the QRS pulse almost always travels in only one direction, so complex may change over time, with the onset of arrhyth- there is no such neutralization effect, and one entire mia usually following a premature beat, a pause, and then side or end of the ventricles is depolarized ahead of another beat with a long Q- T interval, which may trigger the other, which causes large electrical potentials, as arrhythmias, tachycardia and, in some cases, ventricular shown for the PVCs in Figure 13-11. fibrillation. 161 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Premature depolarization Repetitive premature depolarization Torsades de pointes Pause Pause Postpause QT Postpause QT Figure 13-12. Development of arrhythmias in long QT syndrome (LQTS). When the ventricular muscle fiber action potential is prolonged as a result of delayed repolarization, a premature depolarization (dashed line in top left figure) may occur before complete repolarization. Repeti- tive premature depolarizations (top right figure) may lead to multiple depolarizations under certain conditions. In torsades de pointes (bottom figure), premature ventricular beats lead pauses, postpause prolongation of the Q-T interval, and arrhythmias. (Modified from Murray KT, Roden DM: Disorders of cardiac repolarization: the long QT syndromes. In: Crawford MG, DiMarco JP [eds]: Cardiology. London: Mosby, 2001.) Disorders of cardiac repolarization that lead to LQTS that spread in all directions
