Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of cardiac repolarization: the long QT syndromes. In: Crawford MG, DiMarco JP [eds]: Cardiology. London: Mosby, 2001.) Disorders of cardiac repolarization that lead to LQTS that spread in all directions throughout the heart. This may be inherited or acquired. The congenital forms of phenomenon is believed to be caused most frequently by LQTS are rare disorders caused by mutations of sodium re- entrant circus movement feedback pathways that set or potassium channel genes. At least 17 different muta- up local repeated self–re- excitation. Because of the rapid tions of these genes causing variable degrees of Q- T pro- rhythm in the irritable focus, this focus becomes the pace- longation have been identified. maker of the heart. More common are the acquired forms of LQTS that The term paroxysmal means that the heart rate are associated with plasma electrolyte disturbances, such becomes rapid in paroxysms, with the paroxysm begin- as hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia, or ning suddenly and lasting for a few seconds, a few min- with the administration of excess amounts of antiarrhyth- utes, a few hours, or much longer. The paroxysm usually mic drugs such as quinidine or some antibiotics such as ends as suddenly as it began, with the pacemaker of the fluoroquinolones or erythromycin, which prolong the heart instantly shifting back to the sinus node. Q- T interval. Paroxysmal tachycardia often can be stopped by elicit- Although some people with LQTS exhibit no major ing a vagal reflex. A type of vagal reflex sometimes elicited symptoms (other than the prolonged Q- T interval), for this purpose is to press on the neck in the regions of other people exhibit fainting and experience ventricular the carotid sinuses, which may cause enough of a vagal arrhythmias that may be precipitated by physical exercise, reflex to stop the paroxysm. Antiarrhythmic drugs may intense emotions such as fright or anger, or being startled also be used to slow conduction or prolong the refractory by a noise. The ventricular arrhythmias associated with period in cardiac tissues. LQTS can, in some cases, deteriorate into ventricular fibrillation and sudden death. PAROXYSMAL ATRIAL TACHYCARDIA Treatment may include magnesium sulfate for acute LQTS and antiarrhythmic medications such as beta- Figure 13-13 demonstrates a sudden increase in the adrenergic blockers or surgical implantation of a cardiac heart rate from about 95 to about 150 beats/min in the defibrillator for long- term LQTS. middle of the record. On
