Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the adrenergic blockers or surgical implantation of a cardiac heart rate from about 95 to about 150 beats/min in the defibrillator for long- term LQTS. middle of the record. On close study of the ECG, an inverted P wave is seen during the rapid heartbeat before PAROXYSMAL TACHYCARDIA each QRS- T complex, and this P wave is partially super- imposed onto the normal T wave of the preceding beat. Some abnormalities in different portions of the heart, This finding indicates that the origin of this paroxysmal including the atria, Purkinje system, or ventricles, can tachycardia is in the atrium but, because the P wave is occasionally cause rapid rhythmical discharge of impulses abnormal in shape, the origin is not near the sinus node. 162 Chapter 13 Cardiac Arrhythmias and Their Electrocardiographic Interpretation Paroxysmal atrial tachycardia shock to the heart is needed for restoration of normal heart rhythm. VENTRICULAR FIBRILLATION The most serious of all cardiac arrhythmias is ventricular Figure 13-13. Paroxysmal atrial tachycardia—onset in the middle of fibrillation, which, if not stopped within 1 to 3 minutes, the record (lead I). is almost invariably fatal. Ventricular fibrillation results from cardiac impulses that have gone berserk within the Ventricular ventricular muscle mass, stimulating first one portion tachycardia of the ventricular muscle, then another portion, then another, and eventually feeding back onto itself to re- excite the same ventricular muscle over and over, never stopping. When this phenomenon occurs, many small portions of the ventricular muscle will be contracting at the same time, while equally as many other portions will Figure 13-14. Ventricular paroxysmal tachycardia (lead III). be relaxing. Thus, there is never a coordinated contraction of all the ventricular muscle at once, which is required for A- V Nodal Paroxysmal Tachycardia. Paroxysmal tachy- a pumping cycle of the heart. Despite massive movement cardia often results from an aberrant rhythm involving of stimulatory signals throughout the ventricles, the ven- the A- V node that usually causes almost normal QRS- T tricular chambers neither enlarge nor contract but remain complexes but totally missing or obscured P waves. in an indeterminate stage of partial contraction, pumping Atrial or A- V nodal paroxysmal tachycardia, both of either no blood or negligible amounts. Therefore, after which are referred to as supraventricular tachycardias, fibrillation begins, unconsciousness occurs within 4 to 5 usually occur in young, otherwise healthy people, and seconds because of lack of blood flow to
