Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are referred to as supraventricular tachycardias, fibrillation begins, unconsciousness occurs within 4 to 5 usually occur in young, otherwise healthy people, and seconds because of lack of blood flow to the brain, and they generally grow out of the predisposition to tachycar- irretrievable death of tissues begins to occur throughout dia after adolescence. In general, supraventricular tachy- the body within a few minutes. cardia frightens a person tremendously and may cause Multiple factors can spark the beginning of ventricu- weakness during the paroxysm, but it usually does not lar fibrillation; a person may have a normal heartbeat one cause permanent harm from the attack. moment, but 1 second later, the ventricles are in fibril- lation. Especially likely to initiate fibrillation are sudden VENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA electrical shock of the heart, ischemia of the heart muscle, or ischemia of the specialized conducting system. Figure 13-14 shows a typical short paroxysm of ventricu- lar tachycardia. The ECG of ventricular tachycardia has PHENOMENON OF RE- ENTRY—CIRCUS the appearance of a series of ventricular premature beats MOVEMENTS AS THE BASIS FOR occurring one after another, without any normal beats VENTRICULAR FIBRILLATION interspersed. Ventricular tachycardia is usually a serious condition When the normal cardiac impulse in the normal heart for two reasons. First, this type of tachycardia usually has traveled through the extent of the ventricles, it has no does not occur unless considerable ischemic damage is place to go because all the ventricular muscle is refractory present in the ventricles. Second, ventricular tachycar- and cannot conduct the impulse farther. Therefore, that dia frequently initiates the lethal condition of ventricular impulse dies, and the heart awaits a new action potential fibrillation because of rapid repeated stimulation of the to begin in the sinus node. ventricular muscle, as discussed in the next section. Under some circumstances, however, this normal Sometimes, intoxication from the heart failure treat- sequence of events does not occur. Therefore, the follow- ment drug digitalis causes irritable foci that lead to ing is a more complete explanation of the background ventricular tachycardia. Antiarrhythmic drugs such as conditions that can initiate re-e ntry and lead to what is amiodarone or lidocaine can be used to treat ventricular referred to as circus movements, which in turn cause ven- tachycardia. Lidocaine depresses the normal increase in tricular fibrillation. sodium permeability of the cardiac muscle membrane Figure 13-15 shows several small cardiac muscle strips during generation of the
