Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cause ven- tachycardia. Lidocaine depresses the normal increase in tricular fibrillation. sodium permeability of the cardiac muscle membrane Figure 13-15 shows several small cardiac muscle strips during generation of the action potential, thereby often cut in the form of circles. If such a strip is stimulated at blocking the rhythmical discharge of the focal point that the 12 o’clock position so that the impulse travels in only has been causing the paroxysmal attack. Amiodarone has one direction, the impulse spreads progressively around multiple actions, such as prolonging the action potential the circle until it returns to the 12 o’clock position. If the and refractory period in cardiac muscle and slowing A- V originally stimulated muscle fibers are still in a refractory conduction. In some cases, cardioversion with an electric state, the impulse then dies out because refractory muscle 163 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart NORMAL PATHWAY Stimulus point Dividing impulses Absolutely refractory Absolutely refractory Relatively refractory Blocked impulse LONG PATHWAY A B Figure 13-15. Circus movement, showing annihilation of the im- pulse in the short pathway and continued propagation of the impulse Figure 13-16. A, Initiation of fibrillation in a heart when patches in the long pathway. of refractory musculature are present. B, Continued propagation of fibrillatory impulses in the fibrillating ventricle. cannot transmit a second impulse. However, three dif- ferent conditions can cause this impulse to continue to moving in a circle, as shown in Figure 13-15. Instead, travel around the circle—that is, cause re- entry of the they have degenerated into a series of multiple wave impulse into muscle that has already been excited (circus fronts that have the appearance of a chain reaction. One movement): of the best ways to explain this process in fibrillation is to 1. If the pathway around the circle is much longer than describe the initiation of fibrillation by electric shock with normal, by the time the impulse returns to the 12 a 60- cycle alternating electric current. o’clock position, the originally stimulated muscle will no longer be refractory, and the impulse will Fibrillation Caused by 60-C ycle Alternating Current. continue around the circle again and again. At a central point in the ventricles of heart A in Figure 2. If the length of the pathway remains constant 13-16, a 60- cycle electrical stimulus is applied through but the velocity of conduction becomes decreased a stimulating electrode. The first cycle of
