Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the length of the pathway remains constant 13-16, a 60- cycle electrical stimulus is applied through but the velocity of conduction becomes decreased a stimulating electrode. The first cycle of the electrical enough, an increased interval of time will elapse be- stimulus causes a depolarization wave to spread in all fore the impulse returns to the 12 o’clock position. directions, leaving all the muscle beneath the electrode By this time, the originally stimulated muscle might in a refractory state. After about 0.25 second, part of be out of the refractory state, and the impulse can this muscle begins to come out of the refractory state. continue around the circle again and again. Some portions come out of refractoriness before other 3. The refractory period of the muscle might become portions. This state of events is depicted in heart A by greatly shortened. In this case, the impulse could many lighter patches, which represent excitable cardiac also continue around and around the circle. muscle, and dark patches, which represent muscle that is All these conditions occur in different pathological still refractory. Now, continuing 60- cycle stimuli from the states of the human heart: (1) a long pathway typically electrode can cause impulses to travel only in certain di- occurs in dilated hearts; (2) a decreased rate of conduc- rections through the heart but not in all directions. Thus, tion frequently results from blockage of the Purkinje sys- in heart A, certain impulses travel for short distances un- tem, ischemia of the muscle, high blood potassium levels, til they reach refractory areas of the heart, and then they or many other factors; and (3) a shortened refractory are blocked. However, other impulses pass between the period commonly occurs in response to various drugs, refractory areas and continue to travel in the excitable such as epinephrine, or after repetitive electrical stimu- areas. Then, several events transpire in rapid succession, lation. Thus, in many cardiac disturbances, re- entry can all occurring simultaneously and eventuating in a state of cause abnormal patterns of cardiac contraction or abnor- fibrillation. mal cardiac rhythms that ignore the pace- setting effects First, block of the impulses in some directions but suc- of the sinus node. cessful transmission in other directions creates one of the necessary conditions for a re- entrant signal to develop— CHAIN REACTION MECHANISM OF that is, transmission of some of the depolarization waves FIBRILLATION around the
