Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


directions creates one of the necessary conditions for a re- entrant signal to develop— CHAIN REACTION MECHANISM OF that is, transmission of some of the depolarization waves FIBRILLATION around the heart in only some directions but not in other directions. In ventricular fibrillation, one sees many separate and Second, the rapid stimulation of the heart causes two small contractile waves spreading at the same time in dif- changes in the cardiac muscle, both of which predispose ferent directions over the cardiac muscle. The re- entrant to circus movement: (1) the velocity of conduction through impulses in fibrillation are not simply a single impulse the heart muscle decreases, which allows a longer time 164 Chapter 13 Cardiac Arrhythmias and Their Electrocardiographic Interpretation ventricular muscle contracts at as many as 30 to 50 small patches of muscle at a time, and electrocardiographic potentials change constantly and spasmodically because the electrical currents in the heart flow first in one direc- Figure 13-17. Ventricular fibrillation (lead II). tion and then in another and seldom repeat any specific cycle. The voltages of the waves in the ECG in ventricular interval for the impulses to travel around the heart; and fibrillation are usually about 0.5 millivolt when ventricular (2) the refractory period of the muscle is shortened, allow- fibrillation first begins, but they decay rapidly; thus, after ing re- entry of the impulse into previously excited heart 20 to 30 seconds, they are usually only 0.2 to 0.3 millivolt. muscle within a much shorter time than normal. Minute voltages of 0.1 millivolt or less may be recorded Third, one of the most important features of ventricu- for 10 minutes or longer after ventricular fibrillation lar fibrillation is the division of impulses, as demonstrated begins. As already noted, because no pumping of blood in heart A in Figure 13-16. When a depolarization wave occurs during ventricular fibrillation, this state is lethal reaches a refractory area in the heart, it travels to both unless stopped by successful therapy, such as an imme- sides around the refractory area. Thus, a single impulse diate electroshock (defibrillation) through the heart, as becomes two impulses. Then, when each of these explained in the next section. impulses reaches another refractory area, it divides to form two more impulses. In this way, many new wave VENTRICULAR DEFIBRILLATION fronts are continually being formed in the heart by pro- gressive chain reactions until, finally, many small
