Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to form two more impulses. In this way, many new wave VENTRICULAR DEFIBRILLATION fronts are continually being formed in the heart by pro- gressive chain reactions until, finally, many small depolar- Although a moderate alternating current voltage applied ization waves are traveling in many directions at the same directly to the ventricles almost invariably throws the ven- time. Furthermore, this irregular pattern of impulse travel tricles into fibrillation, a strong high- voltage electrical cur- causes many circuitous routes for the impulses to travel, rent passed through the ventricles for a fraction of a second greatly lengthening the conductive pathway, which is one of can stop fibrillation by throwing all the ventricular muscle the conditions that sustains the fibrillation. It also results into refractoriness simultaneously. This is accomplished by in a continual irregular pattern of patchy refractory areas passing intense current through large electrodes placed on in the heart. two sides of the heart. The current penetrates most of the One can readily see when a vicious circle has been initi- fibers of the ventricles at the same time, thus stimulating ated. More and more impulses are formed; these impulses essentially all parts of the ventricles simultaneously and cause more and more patches of refractory muscle, and causing them all to become refractory. All action potentials the refractory patches cause more and more division of stop, and the heart remains quiescent for 3 to 5 seconds, the impulses. Therefore, whenever a single area of cardiac after which it begins to beat again, usually with the sinus muscle comes out of refractoriness, an impulse is close at node or some other part of the heart becoming the pace- hand to re-e nter the area. maker. However, if the same re-e ntrant focus that had orig- Heart B in Figure 13-16 demonstrates the final state inally thrown the ventricles into fibrillation is still present, that develops in ventricular fibrillation. Here, one can see fibrillation may begin again immediately. many impulses traveling in all directions, with some divid- When electrodes are applied directly to the two sides ing and increasing the number of impulses and others of the heart, fibrillation can usually be stopped using 1000 blocked by refractory areas. A single electric shock during volts of direct current applied for a few thousandths of this vulnerable period frequently can lead to an odd pattern a second. When applied through two electrodes on the
