Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


during volts of direct current applied for a few thousandths of this vulnerable period frequently can lead to an odd pattern a second. When applied through two electrodes on the of impulses spreading multidirectionally around refractory chest wall, as shown in Figure 13-18, the usual procedure areas of muscle, which will lead to ventricular fibrillation. is to charge a large electrical capacitor up to several thou- sand volts and then to cause the capacitor to discharge for ELECTROCARDIOGRAM IN VENTRICULAR a few thousandths of a second through the electrodes and FIBRILLATION through the heart. In most cases, defibrillation current is delivered to the In ventricular fibrillation, the ECG is bizarre (Figure heart in biphasic waveforms, alternating the direction of 13-17) and ordinarily shows no tendency toward a regu- the current pulse through the heart. This form of deliv- lar rhythm of any type. During the first few seconds of ery substantially reduces the energy needed for successful ventricular fibrillation, relatively large masses of muscle defibrillation, thereby decreasing the risk for burns and contract simultaneously, which causes coarse irregular cardiac damage. waves in the ECG. After another few seconds, the coarse In patients with a high risk for ventricular fibrillation, contractions of the ventricles disappear, and the ECG a small, battery- powered, implantable cardioverter- changes into a new pattern of low- voltage, very irregular defibrillator (ICD) with electrode wires lodged in the waves. Thus, no repetitive electrocardiographic pattern right ventricle may be implanted. The device is pro- can be ascribed to ventricular fibrillation. Instead, the grammed to detect ventricular fibrillation and revert 165 UNIT III UNIT III The Heart Several thousand volts for a few milliseconds Figure 13-19. Atrial fibrillation (lead II). The waves that can be seen are ventricular QRS and T waves. ATRIAL FIBRILLATION Electrodes Remember that except for the conducting pathway through the A- V bundle, the atrial muscle mass is sepa- rated from the ventricular muscle mass by fibrous tissue. Therefore, ventricular fibrillation often occurs without atrial fibrillation. Likewise, fibrillation often occurs in the atria without ventricular fibrillation (shown on the right in Figure 13-20). The mechanism of atrial fibrillation is identical to that of ventricular fibrillation, except that the process occurs only in the atrial muscle mass instead of the ventricu- lar mass. A frequent cause of atrial fibrillation is atrial Figure 13-18. Application of electrical current to the chest to stop enlargement, which can result,
