Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mass instead of the ventricu- lar mass. A frequent cause of atrial fibrillation is atrial Figure 13-18. Application of electrical current to the chest to stop enlargement, which can result, for example, from heart ventricular fibrillation. valve lesions that prevent the atria from emptying ade- quately into the ventricles or from ventricular failure with it by delivering a brief electrical impulse to the heart. excess damming of blood in the atria. The dilated atrial Advances in electronics and batteries have permitted the walls provide ideal conditions of a long conductive path- development of ICDs that can deliver enough electrical way, as well as slow conduction, both of which predispose current to defibrillate the heart through electrode wires to atrial fibrillation. implanted subcutaneously, outside the rib cage near the heart rather than in or on the heart itself. These devices Impaired Pumping of the Atria During Atrial Fibril- can be implanted with a minor surgical procedure. lation. For the same reasons that the ventricles will not pump blood during ventricular fibrillation, neither do the HAND PUMPING OF THE HEART atria pump blood in atrial fibrillation. Therefore, the atria (CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATION) become useless as primer pumps for the ventricles. Even AS AN AID TO DEFIBRILLATION so, blood flows passively through the atria into the ven- tricles, and the efficiency of ventricular pumping is de- Unless defibrillated within 1 minute after ventricular creased by only 20% to 30%. Therefore, in contrast to the fibrillation begins, the heart is usually too weak to be lethality of ventricular fibrillation, a person can live for revived by defibrillation because of the lack of nutrition years with atrial fibrillation, although at reduced efficien- from coronary blood flow. However, it is still possible to cy of overall heart pumping. However, due to the reduced revive the heart by preliminarily pumping the heart by atrial contractile function, blood can stagnate, allowing hand (intermittent hand squeezing) and then defibrillat- blood clots to form in the atrial appendage. These blood ing the heart later. In this way, small quantities of blood clots can dislodge and travel to the brain, causing stroke, are delivered into the aorta, and a renewed coronary or to other parts of the body. Therefore, patients with blood supply develops. Then, after a few minutes of hand atrial fibrillation are often placed on blood thinner medi- pumping, electrical defibrillation often becomes possible. cations (anticoagulants) to reduce the risk
