Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


supply develops. Then, after a few minutes of hand atrial fibrillation are often placed on blood thinner medi- pumping, electrical defibrillation often becomes possible. cations (anticoagulants) to reduce the risk of embolism. Fibrillating hearts have been pumped by hand for as long as 90 minutes followed by successful defibrillation. ELECTROCARDIOGRAM IN ATRIAL A technique for pumping the heart without opening the FIBRILLATION chest consists of intermittent thrusts of pressure on the chest wall along with artificial respiration. This process, plus defi- Figure 13-19 shows the ECG during atrial fibrillation. brillation, is called cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Numerous small depolarization waves spread in all directions Lack of blood flow to the brain for more than 5 to 8 through the atria during atrial fibrillation. Because the waves minutes usually causes permanent mental impairment are weak, and many of them are of opposite polarity at any or even destruction of brain tissue. Even if the heart is given time, they usually almost completely electrically neu- revived, the person may die from the effects of brain dam- tralize one another. Therefore, in the ECG, one can see either age or may live with permanent mental impairment. no P waves from the atria or only a fine, high-f requency, very 166 Chapter 13 Cardiac Arrhythmias and Their Electrocardiographic Interpretation Figure 13-21. Atrial flutter at 250 beats/min with a 2:1 atrial to ven- tricular rhythm at 125 beats/min (lead II). fibrillation in that the electrical signal travels as a single Atrial flutter Atrial fibrillation large wave, always in one direction, around and around Figure 13-20. Pathways of impulses in atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. the atrial muscle mass, as shown to the left in Figure 13-20. Atrial flutter causes a rapid rate of contraction of the atria, usually between 200 and 350 beats/min. How- ever, because one side of the atria is contracting while the low voltage wave record. Conversely, the QRS- T complexes other side is relaxing, the amount of blood pumped by the are normal unless there is some pathology of the ventricles, atria is reduced. Furthermore, the signals reach the A- V but their timing is irregular, as explained next. node too rapidly for all of them to be passed into the ven- tricles because the refractory periods of the A- V node and IRREGULARITY OF VENTRICULAR A- V bundle are too long to pass more than a fraction of RHYTHM DURING ATRIAL
