Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tricles because the refractory periods of the A- V node and IRREGULARITY OF VENTRICULAR A- V bundle are too long to pass more than a fraction of RHYTHM DURING ATRIAL FIBRILLATION the atrial signals. Therefore, there are usually two to three beats of the atria for every single beat of the ventricles. When the atria are fibrillating, impulses arrive from the Figure 13-21 shows a typical ECG in atrial flutter. The atrial muscle at the A- V node rapidly but also irregularly. P waves are strong because of the contraction of semico- Because the A- V node will not pass a second impulse ordinated masses of muscle. However, note that a QRS- T for about 0.35 second after a previous one, at least 0.35 complex follows an atrial P wave only once for every two second must elapse between one ventricular contraction beats of the atria, giving a 2:1 rhythm. and the next. Then, an additional but variable interval of 0 to 0.6 second occurs before one of the irregular atrial CARDIAC ARREST fibrillatory impulses happens to arrive at the A- V node. Thus, the interval between successive ventricular contrac- A final serious abnormality of the cardiac rhythmicity- tions varies from a minimum of about 0.35 second to a conduction system is cardiac arrest, which results from maximum of about 0.95 second, causing a very irregular cessation of all electrical control signals in the heart. That heartbeat. In fact, this irregularity, demonstrated by the is, no spontaneous rhythm remains. variable spacing of the heartbeats in the ECG shown in Cardiac arrest may occur during deep anesthesia, Figure 13-19, is one of the clinical findings used to diag- when severe hypoxia may develop because of inadequate nose the condition. Also, because of the rapid rate of the respiration. The hypoxia prevents the muscle fibers and fibrillatory impulses in the atria, the ventricle is driven at conductive fibers from maintaining normal electrolyte a fast heart rate, usually between 125 and 150 beats/min. concentration differentials across their membranes, and their excitability may be so affected that the automatic ELECTROSHOCK TREATMENT OF ATRIAL rhythmicity disappears. FIBRILLATION In many cases of cardiac arrest from anesthesia, pro- longed CPR (for many minutes or even hours) is quite Similar to ventricular fibrillation being converted back to successful in re- establishing a normal heart rhythm. In a normal rhythm by electroshock, so can atrial fibrillation some patients, severe
