Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are thin and have numerous minute capillary pores tain an appropriate environment in all the tissue fluids for permeable to water and other small molecular substances. survival and optimal function of the cells. The venules collect blood from the capillaries and The rate of blood flow through many tissues is controlled gradually coalesce into progressively larger veins. mainly in response to their need for nutrients and removal of The veins function as conduits for transport of blood from waste products of metabolism. In some organs, such as the the venules back to the heart. The veins also serve as a major kidneys, the circulation serves additional functions. Blood reservoir of extra blood. Because the pressure in the venous flow to the kidney, for example, is far in excess of its metabolic system is low, the venous walls are thin. Even so, they are requirements and is related to its excretory function, which muscular enough to contract or expand and thereby serve as requires that a large volume of blood be filtered each minute. Pulmonary circulation The heart and blood vessels, in turn, are controlled to 9% provide the cardiac output and arterial pressure needed to supply adequate tissue blood flow. What are the mecha- nisms for controlling blood volume and blood flow, and how does this process relate to the other functions of the circulation? These are some of the topics and questions that we discuss in this section on the circulation. Aorta Superior vena cava PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE CIRCULATION Heart The circulation, shown in Figure 14-1, is divided into 7% the systemic circulation and the pulmonary circulation. Inferior Because the systemic circulation supplies blood flow to all vena cava the tissues of the body except the lungs, it is also called the Systemic greater circulation or peripheral circulation. vessels Functional Parts of the Circulation. Before discussing Arteries Systemic 13% the details of circulatory function, it is important to un- circulation derstand the role of each part of the circulation. 84% Arterioles and The function of the arteries is to transport blood under capillaries high pressure to the tissues. For this reason, the arter- 7% ies have strong vascular walls, and blood flows at a high velocity in the arteries. The arterioles are the last small branches of the arterial system; they act as control conduits through which blood is Veins, venules, and released into the capillaries. Arterioles have
