Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


arteries. The arterioles are the last small branches of the arterial system; they act as control conduits through which blood is Veins, venules, and released into the capillaries. Arterioles have strong muscular venous sinuses walls that can close the arterioles completely or, by relax- 64% ing, can dilate the vessels severalfold; thus, the arterioles can Figure 14-1. Distribution of blood (in percentage of total blood) in vastly alter blood flow in each tissue in response to its needs. the different parts of the circulatory system. 171 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation 120 Left Right Pulmonary 100 ventricular ventricular artery pressure pressure pressure 80 Aortic 60 pressure 40 20 0 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 0 Systemic Pulmonary Figure 14-2. Normal blood pressures (in mm Hg) in the different portions of the circulatory system when a person is lying in the horizontal position. a controllable reservoir for the extra blood, either a small or Note particularly that the cross- sectional areas of the a large amount, depending on the needs of the circulation. veins are much larger than those of the arteries, averag- ing about four times those of the corresponding arteries. Volumes of Blood in the Different Parts of the This difference explains the large blood storage capac- Circulation. Figure 14-1 provides an overview of the cir- ity of the venous system in comparison with the arterial culation and lists the percentages of total blood volume system. in major segments of the circulation. For example, about Because the same volume of blood flow (F) must pass 84% of the entire blood volume of the body is in the sys- through each segment of the circulation each minute, the temic circulation, and 16% is in the heart and lungs. Of velocity of blood flow (v) is inversely proportional to the the 84% in the systemic circulation, approximately 64% is vascular cross- sectional area (A): in the veins, 13% is in the arteries, and 7% is in the sys- v=F/A temic arterioles and capillaries. The heart contains 7% of the blood, and the pulmonary vessels contain 9%. Thus, under resting conditions, the velocity averages Most surprising is the low blood volume in the capillaries. about 33 cm/sec in the aorta but is only 1/1000 as rapid It is here, however, that the most important function of the in the capillaries—about 0.3 mm/sec. However, because circulation occurs—diffusion of substances back
