Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


aorta but is only 1/1000 as rapid It is here, however, that the most important function of the in the capillaries—about 0.3 mm/sec. However, because circulation occurs—diffusion of substances back and forth the capillaries have a typical length of only 0.3 to 1 mil- between the blood and tissues, as discussed in Chapter 16. limeter, the blood remains in the capillaries for only 1 to 3 seconds, which is surprising because all diffusion Cross- Sectional Areas and Velocities of Blood Flow. If of nutrient food substances and electrolytes that occurs all the systemic vessels of each type were put side by side, through the capillary walls must be performed in this their approximate total cross- sectional areas for the aver- short time. age human would be as follows: Vessel Cross- Sectional Area (cm2) Pressures in the Various Portions of the Circula- Aorta 2.5 tion. Because the heart pumps blood continually into the aorta, the mean pressure in the aorta is high, aver- Small arteries 20 aging about 100 mm Hg. Also, because heart pumping Arterioles 40 is pulsatile, the arterial pressure normally alternates Capillaries 2500 between an average systolic pressure level of 120 mm Venules 250 Hg and a diastolic pressure level of 80 mm Hg un- Small veins 80 der resting conditions, as shown on the left side of Venae cavae 8 Figure 14-2. 172 tfeL muirta tfeL elcirtnev atroA egraL seiretra llamS seiretra seloiretrA seirallipaC snieV thgiR muirta thgiR elcirtnev yranomluP seiretra seloiretrA seirallipaC seluneV yranomluP sniev Chapter 14 Overview of the Circulation: Pressure, Flow, and Resistance As the blood flows through the systemic circulation, Pressure gradient P P 1 2 its mean pressure falls progressively to about 0 mm Hg Blood flow by the time it reaches the termination of the superior and inferior venae cavae where they empty into the right Resistance atrium of the heart. The pressure in many of the systemic capillaries varies Figure 14-3. Interrelationships of pressure, resistance, and blood flow. P , Pressure at the origin of the vessel; P , pressure at the other from as high as 35 mm Hg near the arteriolar ends to as 1 2 end of the vessel. low as 10 mm Hg near the venous ends, but their aver- age functional pressure in most vascular beds is about 17 mm Hg, a pressure low enough that little of the plasma 2. Cardiac output is the
