Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ends, but their aver- age functional pressure in most vascular beds is about 17 mm Hg, a pressure low enough that little of the plasma 2. Cardiac output is the sum of all the local tissue leaks through the minute pores of the capillary walls, even flows. When blood flows through a tissue, it imme- though nutrients can diffuse easily through these same diately returns by way of the veins to the heart. The pores to the outlying tissue cells. In some capillaries, such heart responds automatically to this increased in- as the glomerular capillaries of the kidneys, the pressure is flow of blood by pumping it immediately back into considerably higher, averaging about 60 mm Hg and caus- the arteries. Thus, as long as the heart is functioning ing much higher rates of fluid filtration. normally, it acts as an automaton, responding to the At the far-r ight side of Figure 14-2, note the respective demands of the tissues. The heart, however, often pressures in the different parts of the pulmonary circula- needs help in the form of special nerve signals to tion. In the pulmonary arteries, the pressure is pulsatile, make it pump the required amounts of blood flow. just as in the aorta, but the pressure is far less; pulmo- 3. Arterial pressure regulation is generally independent nary artery systolic pressure averages about 25 mm Hg of either local blood flow control or cardiac output and diastolic pressure averages about 8 mm Hg, with a control. The circulatory system is provided with an mean pulmonary arterial pressure of only 16 mm Hg. The extensive system for controlling the arterial blood mean pulmonary capillary pressure averages only 7 mm pressure. For example, if at any time the pressure Hg. Yet, the total blood flow through the lungs each min- falls significantly below the normal level of about ute is the same as through the systemic circulation. The 100 mm Hg, a barrage of nervous reflexes elicits a low pressures of the pulmonary system are in accord with series of circulatory changes to raise the pressure the needs of the lungs because all that is required is to back toward normal within seconds. The nervous expose the blood in the pulmonary capillaries to oxygen signals especially do the following: (a) increase the and other gases in the pulmonary alveoli. force of heart pumping; (b) cause contraction of the large
