Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the pulmonary capillaries to oxygen signals especially do the following: (a) increase the and other gases in the pulmonary alveoli. force of heart pumping; (b) cause contraction of the large venous reservoirs to provide more blood to the heart; and (c) cause generalized constric- BASIC PRINCIPLES OF CIRCULATORY tion of the arterioles in many tissues so that more FUNCTION blood accumulates in the large arteries to increase Although the details of circulatory function are com- the arterial pressure. Then, over more prolonged plex, three basic principles underlie all functions of the periods—hours and days—the kidneys play an ad- system. ditional major role in pressure control by secret- 1. Blood flow to most tissues is controlled according to ing pressure- controlling hormones and regulating the tissue needs. When tissues are active, they need blood volume. an increased supply of nutrients and therefore more Thus, the needs of the individual tissues are served blood flow than when at rest, occasionally as much specifically by the circulation. In the remainder of this as 20 to 30 times the resting level. However, the heart chapter, we begin to discuss the basic control of tissue normally cannot increase its cardiac output more blood flow, cardiac output, and arterial pressure. than four to seven times higher than resting levels. Therefore, it is not possible simply to increase blood INTERRELATIONSHIPS OF PRESSURE, flow everywhere in the body when a particular tissue FLOW, AND RESISTANCE demands increased flow. Instead, the microvessels of each tissue, especially the arterioles, continuously Blood flow through a blood vessel is determined by two monitor tissue needs, such as the availability of oxy- factors: (1) pressure difference of the blood between the gen and other nutrients and the accumulation of car- two ends of the vessel, also sometimes called the pressure bon dioxide and other tissue waste products. These gradient along the vessel, which pushes the blood through microvessels, in turn, dilate or constrict to control the vessel; and (2) the impediment to blood flow through local blood flow at the level required for the tissue the vessel, which is called vascular resistance. Figure 14-3 activity. Also, nervous control of the circulation from demonstrates these relationships, showing a blood vessel the central nervous system and hormones provides segment located anywhere in the circulatory system. additional help in controlling tissue blood flow. 173 UNIT XIV UNIT IV The Circulation + + 0 0 N S
