Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and hormones provides segment located anywhere in the circulatory system. additional help in controlling tissue blood flow. 173 UNIT XIV UNIT IV The Circulation + + 0 0 N S N S − + − + − − A B Figure 14-4. A, Electromagnetic flowmeter showing generation of an electrical voltage in a wire as it passes through an electromagnetic field. B, Generation of an electrical voltage in electrodes on a blood vessel when the vessel is placed in a strong magnetic field, and blood flows through the vessel. C, Modern electromag- netic flowmeter probe for chronic implantation around blood vessels. N and S refer to the mag- C net’s north and south poles. P represents the pressure at the origin of the vessel Ordinarily, blood flow is expressed in milliliters per 1 and P is the pressure at the other end. Resistance occurs minute or liters per minute, but it can be expressed in 2 as a result of friction between the flowing blood and the milliliters per second or in any other units of flow and intravascular endothelium all along the inside of the ves- time. sel. The flow through the vessel can be calculated by the The overall blood flow in the total circulation of an following formula, which is called Ohm’s law: adult person at rest is about 5000 ml/min. This is called ∆P the cardiac output because it is the amount of blood F= R pumped into the aorta by the heart each minute. in which F is blood flow, ΔP is the pressure difference (P 1 Methods for Measuring Blood Flow. Many mechanical − P ) between the two ends of the vessel, and R is the resis- 2 and mechanoelectrical flowmeter devices can be inserted in se- tance. This formula states that the blood flow is directly ries with a blood vessel or, in some cases, applied to the outside proportional to the pressure difference but inversely pro- of the vessel to measure blood flow. portional to the resistance. Electromagnetic Flowmeter. An electromagnetic flow- Note that it is the difference in pressure between the meter, the principles of which are illustrated in Figure two ends of the vessel, not the absolute pressure in the 14-4, can be used to measure blood flow experimentally vessel, that determines flow rate. For example, if the pres- without opening the blood vessel. Figure 14-4A shows the generation
