Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the 14-4, can be used to measure blood flow experimentally vessel, that determines flow rate. For example, if the pres- without opening the blood vessel. Figure 14-4A shows the generation of electromotive force (electrical voltage) sure at both ends of a vessel is 100 mm Hg and no differ- in a wire that is moved rapidly in a cross- wise direction ence exists between the two ends, there will be no flow, through a magnetic field. This is the well- known princi- despite the presence of 100 mm Hg pressure. ple for production of electricity by the electric generator. Ohm’s law, illustrated in the preceding formula, Figure 14-4B shows that the same principle applies for expresses one of the most important of all the relation- generation of electromotive force in blood that is mov- ships that the reader needs to understand to compre- ing through a magnetic field. In this case, a blood vessel hend the hemodynamics of the circulation. Because is placed between the poles of a strong magnet, and elec- of the extreme importance of this formula, the reader trodes are placed on the two sides of the vessel perpen- should also become familiar with its other algebraic dicular to the magnetic lines of force. When blood flows forms: through the vessel, an electrical voltage proportional to the rate of blood flow is generated between the two electrodes, ∆P=F×R and this voltage is recorded using an appropriate voltmeter ∆P or electronic recording apparatus. Figure 14-4C shows an R= actual probe that is placed on a large blood vessel to record F its blood flow. The probe contains both the strong magnet and the electrodes. BLOOD FLOW A special advantage of the electromagnetic flowmeter is that it can record changes in flow in less than 1/100 of Blood flow rate means the quantity of blood that passes a second, allowing for the accurate recording of pulsatile a given point in the circulation in a given period of time. changes in flow, as well as steady flow. 174 Chapter 14 Overview of the Circulation: Pressure, Flow, and Resistance Ultrasonic Doppler Flowmeter. Another type of flow- meter that can be applied to the outside of the vessel and that has many of the same advantages as the electro- A magnetic flowmeter is the ultrasonic Doppler flowmeter, shown in Figure 14-5. A minute piezoelectric crystal is mounted at one end in the
