Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the same advantages as the electro- A magnetic flowmeter is the ultrasonic Doppler flowmeter, shown in Figure 14-5. A minute piezoelectric crystal is mounted at one end in the wall of the device. This crystal, when energized with an appropriate electronic apparatus, B transmits ultrasound at a frequency of several hundred thousand cycles per second downstream along the flow- ing blood. A portion of the sound is reflected by the red blood cells in the flowing blood. The reflected ultrasound C waves then travel backward from the blood cells toward the crystal. These reflected waves have a lower frequency Figure 14-6. A, Two fluids (one dyed red, and the other clear) before than the transmitted wave because the red blood cells are flow begins. B, The same fluids 1 second after flow begins. C, Turbu- moving away from the transmitter crystal. This effect is lent flow, with elements of the fluid moving in a disorderly pattern. called the Doppler effect. (It is the same effect that one experiences when a train approaches and passes by while at the right a clear fluid, but there is no flow in the blowing its whistle. Once the whistle has passed by the vessel. When the fluids are made to flow, a parabolic person, the pitch of the sound from the whistle suddenly interface develops between them, as shown 1 second becomes much lower than when the train is approaching.) later in Figure 14-6B. The portion of fluid adjacent to For the flowmeter shown in Figure 14-5, the high- the vessel wall has hardly moved, the portion slightly frequency ultrasound wave is intermittently cut off, and the away from the wall has moved a small distance, and reflected wave is received back onto the crystal and greatly amplified by the electronic apparatus. Another portion of the portion in the center of the vessel has moved a long the electronic apparatus determines the frequency difference distance. This effect is called the parabolic profile for between the transmitted wave and the reflected wave, thus velocity of blood flow. determining the velocity of blood flow. As long as the diam- The cause of the parabolic profile is as follows. The eter of a blood vessel does not change, changes in blood flow fluid molecules touching the wall move slowly because in the vessel are directly related to changes in flow velocity. of adherence to the vessel
