Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


not change, changes in blood flow fluid molecules touching the wall move slowly because in the vessel are directly related to changes in flow velocity. of adherence to the vessel wall. The next layer of mol- Like the electromagnetic flowmeter, the ultrasonic ecules slips over these, the third layer over the second, Doppler flowmeter is capable of recording rapid pulsatile the fourth layer over the third, and so forth. Therefore, changes in flow, as well as steady flow. the fluid in the middle of the vessel can move rapidly because many layers of slipping molecules exist between Laminar Flow of Blood in Vessels. When blood flows at the middle of the vessel and the vessel wall. Thus, each a steady rate through a long smooth blood vessel, it flows layer toward the center flows progressively more rapidly in streamlines, with each layer of blood remaining the than the outer layers. same distance from the vessel wall. Also, the centralmost portion of the blood stays in the center of the vessel. This Turbulent Flow of Blood Under Some Conditions. type of flow is called laminar flow or streamline flow, in When the rate of blood flow becomes too great, when it contrast to turbulent flow, which is blood flowing in all passes by an obstruction in a vessel, when it makes a sharp directions in the vessel and continually mixing in the ves- turn, or when it passes over a rough surface, the flow may sel, as discussed subsequently. then become turbulent, or disorderly, rather than stream- lined (Figure 14-6C). Turbulent flow means that the blood Parabolic Velocity Profile During Laminar Flow. flows crosswise in the vessel and along the vessel, usually When laminar flow occurs, the velocity of flow in the forming whorls in the blood, called eddy currents. These center of the vessel is far greater than that toward the eddy currents are similar to the whirlpools that can be outer edges. This phenomenon is demonstrated in seen in a rapidly flowing river at a point of obstruction. Figure 14-6. In Figure 14-6A, a vessel contains two When eddy currents are present, the blood flows with fluids, the one at the left colored by a dye and the one much greater resistance than when the flow is streamlined because eddies add to the overall friction of flow in the vessel tremendously. Crystal The tendency for turbulent flow increases in
