Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


much greater resistance than when the flow is streamlined because eddies add to the overall friction of flow in the vessel tremendously. Crystal The tendency for turbulent flow increases in direct pro- portion to the velocity of blood flow, the diameter of the blood vessel, and the density of the blood and is inversely proportional to the viscosity of the blood, in accordance with the following equation: Transmitted Reflected ν⋅d⋅ρ wave wave Re= η Figure 14-5. Ultrasonic Doppler flowmeter. 175 UNIT XIV UNIT IV The Circulation where Re is Reynolds’ number, the measure of the ten- recording the electrical signals on a high- speed electrical record- dency for turbulence to occur, v is the mean velocity of er. Each of these transducers uses a very thin, highly stretched blood flow (in cm/sec), d is the vessel diameter (in centi- metal membrane that forms one wall of the fluid chamber. The meters), ρ is density (in grams/ml), and η is the viscosity fluid chamber, in turn, is connected through a needle or cath- (in poise). The viscosity of blood is normally about 1/30 eter inserted into the blood vessel in which the pressure is to poise, and the density is only slightly greater than 1. When be measured. When the pressure is high, the membrane bulges Reynolds’ number rises above 200 to 400, turbulent flow slightly and, when it is low, it returns toward its resting position. will occur at some branches of vessels but will die out In Figure 14-7A, a simple metal plate is placed a few along the smooth portions of the vessels. However, when hundredths of a centimeter above the membrane. When Reynolds’ number rises above approximately 2000, turbu- the membrane bulges, the membrane comes closer to the lence will usually occur, even in a straight, smooth vessel. plate, which increases the electrical capacitance between Reynolds’ number for flow in the vascular system these two, and this change in capacitance can be recorded normally rises to 200 to 400, even in large arteries. As a using an appropriate electronic system. result, there is almost always some flow turbulence at the In Figure 14-7B, a small iron slug rests on the mem- branches of these vessels. In the proximal portions of the brane, and this slug can be displaced upward into a center aorta and pulmonary artery, Reynolds’ number can rise space inside an electrical wire coil. Movement
