Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


proximal portions of the brane, and this slug can be displaced upward into a center aorta and pulmonary artery, Reynolds’ number can rise space inside an electrical wire coil. Movement of the iron to several thousand during the rapid phase of ejection into the coil increases the inductance of the coil, and this by the ventricles, which causes considerable turbulence too can be recorded electronically. in the proximal aorta and pulmonary artery, where many Finally, in Figure 14-7C, a very thin, stretched resist- conditions are appropriate for turbulence, such as the fol- ance wire is connected to the membrane. When this wire lowing: (1) high velocity of blood flow; (2) pulsatile nature is stretched greatly, its resistance increases; when it is of the flow; (3) sudden change in vessel diameter; and (4) stretched less, its resistance decreases. These changes can large vessel diameter. However, in small vessels, Reynolds’ also be recorded by an electronic system. number is almost never high enough to cause turbulence. The electrical signals from the transducer are sent to an amplifier and then to an appropriate recording device. With some of these high-fi delity types of recording systems, pres- BLOOD PRESSURE sure cycles up to 500 cycles/sec have been recorded accu- Standard Units of Pressure. Blood pressure almost al- rately. In common use are recorders capable of registering pressure changes that occur as rapidly as 20 to 100 cycles/ ways is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) sec in the manner shown on the recorder in Figure 14-7C. because the mercury manometer has been used as the standard reference for measuring pressure since its inven- tion in 1846 by Poiseuille. Actually, blood pressure means the force exerted by the blood against any unit area of the vessel wall. If the pressure in a vessel is 100 mm Hg, this A means that the force exerted is sufficient to push a col- umn of mercury against gravity up to a level 50 millim- eters high. Occasionally, pressure is measured in centimeters of water (cm H 2O). A pressure of 10 cm H 2O means a pres- B sure sufficient to raise a column of water against gravity to a height of 10 centimeters. One millimeter of mercury pressure equals 1.36 centimeters of water pressure because the specific gravity of mercury is 13.6 times that of water, and 1 centimeter is 10 times as great as 1
