Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mercury pressure equals 1.36 centimeters of water pressure because the specific gravity of mercury is 13.6 times that of water, and 1 centimeter is 10 times as great as 1 millimeter. High-F idelity Methods for Measuring Blood Pres- sure. The mercury in a manometer has so much inertia that it cannot rise and fall rapidly. For this reason, the mercury manometer, although excellent for recording steady pres- sures, cannot respond to pressure changes that occur more rapidly than about one cycle every 2 to 3 seconds. When- ever it is desired to record rapidly changing pressures, some other type of pressure recorder is necessary. Figure 14-7 demonstrates the basic principles of three electronic pressure C transducers commonly used for converting blood pressure and/ Figure 14-7. A–C, Principles of three types of electronic transducers or rapid changes in pressure into electrical signals and then for recording rapidly changing blood pressures (see text). 176 Chapter 14 Overview of the Circulation: Pressure, Flow, and Resistance RESISTANCE TO BLOOD FLOW d = 1 1 ml/min Units of Resistance. Resistance is the impediment to P = d = 2 blood flow in a vessel, but it cannot be measured by any 100 mm 16 ml/min Hg direct means. Instead, resistance must be calculated from d = 4 256 ml/min measurements of blood flow and pressure difference be- A tween two points in the vessel. If the pressure difference between two points is 1 mm Hg and the flow is 1 ml/sec, the resistance is said to be 1 peripheral resistance unit, usually abbreviated PRU. Small vessel Expression of Resistance in CGS Units. Occasionally, a basic physical unit called the CGS (centimeters, grams, seconds) unit is used to express resistance. This unit is B Large vessel dyne sec/cm5. Resistance in these units can be calculated Figure 14-8. A, Demonstration of the effect of vessel diameter on by the following formula: blood flow. B, Concentric rings of blood flowing at different veloci- ties; the farther away from the vessel wall, the faster the flow. d, diameter; P, pressure difference between the two ends of the vessels.  dyne sec 1333×mm Hg Rin  =  cm5  mlsec Small Changes in Vessel Diameter Markedly Change Its Conductance. Slight changes in the diameter of a vessel Total Peripheral Vascular Resistance and Total Pul- cause tremendous changes in the vessel’s ability to conduct monary Vascular Resistance. The rate of
