Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Slight changes in the diameter of a vessel Total Peripheral Vascular Resistance and Total Pul- cause tremendous changes in the vessel’s ability to conduct monary Vascular Resistance. The rate of blood flow blood when the blood flow is streamlined. This phenom- through the entire circulatory system is equal to the rate enon is illustrated in Figure 14-8A, which shows three ves- of blood pumping by the heart—that is, it is equal to the sels with relative diameters of 1, 2, and 4 but with the same cardiac output. In an adult human, this averages approx- pressure difference of 100 mm Hg between the two ends of imately 100 ml/sec. The pressure difference from the the vessels. Although the diameters of these vessels increase systemic arteries to the systemic veins is about 100 mm only fourfold, the respective flows are 1, 16, and 256 ml/ Hg. Therefore, the resistance of the entire systemic cir- min, which is a 256-f old increase in flow. Thus, the conduct- culation, called the total peripheral resistance, is about ance of the vessel increases in proportion to the fourth pow- 100/100, or 1 PRU. er of the diameter, in accordance with the following formula: In conditions in which all the blood vessels throughout Conductance∝Diameter4 the body become strongly constricted, the total periph- eral resistance occasionally rises to as high as 4 PRU. Conversely, when the vessels become greatly dilated, the Poiseuille’s Law. The cause of this great increase in con- resistance can fall to as little as 0.2 PRU. ductance when the diameter increases can be explained In the pulmonary system, the mean pulmonary arterial by referring to Figure 14-8B, which shows cross sections pressure averages 16 mm Hg and the mean left atrial pres- of a large and small vessel. The concentric rings inside the sure averages 2 mm Hg, giving a net pressure difference of vessels indicate that the velocity of flow in each ring is 14 mm. Therefore, when the cardiac output is normal at different from that in the adjacent rings because of lami- about 100 ml/sec, the total pulmonary vascular resistance nar flow, which was discussed earlier in the chapter. That calculates to be about 0.14 PRU (about one seventh that in is, the blood in the ring touching the wall of the vessel is the systemic circulation). barely flowing because of its adherence to the vascular en- dothelium. The next
