Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in is, the blood in the ring touching the wall of the vessel is the systemic circulation). barely flowing because of its adherence to the vascular en- dothelium. The next ring of blood toward the center of the Conductance of Blood in a Vessel Is the Reciprocal vessel slips past the first ring and, therefore, flows more of Resistance. Conductance is a measure of the blood rapidly. Likewise, the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth rings flow through a vessel for a given pressure difference. This flow at progressively increasing velocities. Thus, the blood measurement is generally expressed in terms of ml/sec that is near the wall of the vessel flows slowly, whereas per mm Hg pressure, but it can also be expressed in terms that in the middle of the vessel flows much more rapidly. of L/sec per mm Hg or in any other units of blood flow In the small vessel, essentially all the blood is near the and pressure. wall, so the extremely rapidly flowing central stream of It is evident that conductance is the exact reciprocal of blood simply does not exist. By integrating the velocities resistance in accord with the following equation: of all the concentric rings of flowing blood and multiply- ing them by the areas of the rings, one can derive the fol- lowing formula, known as Poiseuille’s law: 1 Conductance= Resistance F= π∆Pr4 8ηl 177 UNIT XIV UNIT IV The Circulation in which F is the rate of blood flow, ΔP is the pressure dif- R 1 R 2 ference between the ends of the vessel, r is the radius of the vessel, l is length of the vessel, and η is viscosity of the blood. A Note particularly in this equation that the rate of blood flow is directly proportional to the fourth power of the R 1 R 2 radius of the vessel, which demonstrates once again that the diameter of a blood vessel (which is equal to twice the radius) plays the greatest role of all factors in determining the rate of blood flow through a vessel. B R 3 R 4 Importance of the Vessel Diameter Fourth Power Figure 14-9. Vascular resistance (R). A, In series. B, In parallel. Law in Determining Arteriolar Resistance. In the systemic circulation, about two thirds of the total sys- temic resistance to blood flow is resistance in the small arterioles. The internal diameters
