Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Law in Determining Arteriolar Resistance. In the systemic circulation, about two thirds of the total sys- temic resistance to blood flow is resistance in the small arterioles. The internal diameters of the arterioles range from as little as 4 micrometers to as much as 25 mi- It is obvious that for a given pressure gradient, far crometers. However, their strong vascular walls allow greater amounts of blood will flow through this parallel the internal diameters to change tremendously, often as system than through any of the individual blood vessels. much as fourfold. From the fourth power law discussed Therefore, the total resistance is far less than the resis- earlier, which relates blood flow to diameter of the ves- tance of any single blood vessel. Flow through each of the sel, one can see that a fourfold increase in vessel diam- parallel vessels in Figure 14-9B is determined by the pres- eter can increase the flow as much as 256- fold. Thus, sure gradient and its own resistance, not the resistance of this fourth power law makes it possible for the arteri- the other parallel blood vessels. However, increasing the oles, responding with only small changes in diameter to resistance of any of the blood vessels increases the total nervous signals or local tissue chemical signals, either to vascular resistance. turn off the blood flow to the tissue almost completely It may seem paradoxical that adding more blood ves- or, at the other extreme, to cause a vast increase in flow. sels to a circuit reduces the total vascular resistance. Many Ranges of blood flow of more than 100- fold in separate parallel blood vessels, however, make it easier for blood to tissue areas have been recorded between the limits of flow through the circuit because each parallel vessel pro- maximum arteriolar constriction and maximum arteri- vides another pathway, or conductance, for blood flow. olar dilation. The total conductance (C ) for blood flow is the sum of total the conductance of each parallel pathway: Resistance to Blood Flow in Series and Parallel Vas- cular Circuits. Blood pumped by the heart flows from the high- pressure part of the systemic circulation (i.e., For example, brain, kidney, muscle, gastrointestinal, aorta) to the low- pressure side (i.e., vena cava) through skin, and coronary circulations are arranged in parallel, many miles of blood vessels arranged in series and in and each tissue contributes to
