Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


low- pressure side (i.e., vena cava) through skin, and coronary circulations are arranged in parallel, many miles of blood vessels arranged in series and in and each tissue contributes to the overall conductance parallel. The arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, of the systemic circulation. Blood flow through each and veins are collectively arranged in series. When tissue is a fraction of the total blood flow (cardiac out- blood vessels are arranged in series, flow through each put) and is determined by the resistance (the reciprocal blood vessel is the same, and the total resistance to of conductance) for blood flow in the tissue, as well as blood flow (R ) is equal to the sum of the resistances the pressure gradient. Therefore, amputation of a limb or total of each vessel: surgical removal of a kidney also removes a parallel cir- cuit and reduces the total vascular conductance and total blood flow (i.e., cardiac output) while increasing the total The total peripheral vascular resistance is therefore peripheral vascular resistance. equal to the sum of resistances of the arteries, arterioles, Effect of Blood Hematocrit and Blood capillaries, venules, and veins. In the example shown in Viscosity on Vascular Resistance and Figure 14-9A, the total vascular resistance is equal to the Blood Flow sum of R and R . 1 2 Blood vessels branch extensively to form parallel cir- Note that another important factor in Poiseuille’s equa- cuits that supply blood to the many organs and tissues of tion is the viscosity of the blood. The greater the viscosity, the body. This parallel arrangement permits each tissue the lower the flow in a vessel if all other factors are con- to regulate its own blood flow, to a great extent, indepen- stant. Furthermore, the viscosity of normal blood is about dently of flow to other tissues. three times as great as the viscosity of water. For blood vessels arranged in parallel (Figure 14-9B), What makes the blood so viscous? It is mainly the the total resistance to blood flow is expressed as follows: large numbers of suspended red cells in the blood, each 178 Chapter 14 Overview of the Circulation: Pressure, Flow, and Resistance 10 Viscosity of whole blood 9 100 100 100 8 7 90 90 90 6 80 80 80 5 4 70 70 70 3 Normal blood 2 Viscosity of plasma 60 60 60 1 Viscosity of water 50 50
