Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in most hemodynamic studies. The viscosity of blood Hematocrit is determined by centrifuging blood in a plasma is about 1.5 times that of water. calibrated tube, as shown in Figure 14-10. The calibra- tion allows direct reading of the percentage of cells. EFFECTS OF PRESSURE ON VASCULAR RESISTANCE AND TISSUE BLOOD FLOW Increasing Hematocrit Markedly Increases Blood Vis- cosity. The viscosity of blood increases markedly as the Autoregulation Attenuates the Effect of Arterial hematocrit increases, as shown in Figure 14-11. The vis- Pressure on Tissue Blood Flow. From the discussion cosity of whole blood at a normal hematocrit is about 3 to thus far, one might expect an increase in arterial pres- 4, which means that three to four times as much pressure sure to cause a proportionate increase in blood flow is required to force whole blood as to force water through through the body’s tissues. However, the effect of arte- the same blood vessel. When the hematocrit rises to 60 rial pressure on blood flow in many tissues is usually far or 70, which it often does in persons with polycythemia, less than one might expect, as shown in Figure 14-12. the blood viscosity can become as great as 10 times that This is because an increase in arterial pressure not only of water, and its flow through blood vessels is greatly re- increases the force that pushes blood through the ves- tarded. sels, but also initiates compensatory increases in vascu- Other factors that affect blood viscosity are the lar resistance within a few seconds through activation of plasma protein concentration and types of proteins in the the local control mechanisms, discussed in Chapter 17. plasma, but these effects are so much less than the effect Conversely, with reductions in arterial pressure, vascular 179 )1 = retaw( ytisocsiV )lamron ×( wolf doolB UNIT XIV UNIT IV The Circulation External (tissue) 7 pressure Pt Wall 6 Sympathetic thickness (h) inhibition 5 Internal 4 (intravascular) Normal Critical Vessel pressure Pi 3 closing radius (r) pressure 2 Sympathetic 1 stimulation A Transmural pressure 0 ∆P = Pi – Pt 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 Tension (T) = ∆P(r/h) Arterial pressure (mm Hg) Figure 14-13. Effect of arterial pressure on blood flow through a passive blood vessel at different degrees of vascular tone caused by Shear stress increased or decreased sympathetic stimulation of the vessel. resistance
