Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of arterial pressure on blood flow through a passive blood vessel at different degrees of vascular tone caused by Shear stress increased or decreased sympathetic stimulation of the vessel. resistance is promptly reduced in most tissues, and blood B flow is maintained at a relatively constant rate. The abil- Figure 14-14. Illustration of the effects of vessel wall tension and ity of each tissue to adjust its vascular resistance and to shear stress on blood vessels. Wall tension develops in response to maintain normal blood flow during changes in arterial transmural pressure gradients and causes stretch of endothelial and pressure between approximately 70 and 175 mm Hg is vascular smooth muscle cells in all directions. Shear stress is the fric- called blood flow autoregulation. tional force or drag on endothelial cells caused by flowing blood. Shear stress results in unidirectional endothelial cell deformation. Note in Figure 14-12 that changes in blood flow can be caused by strong sympathetic stimulation, which constricts the blood vessels. Likewise, hormonal vaso- twofold or more. Conversely, very strong sympathetic constrictors, such as norepinephrine, angiotensin II, vaso- stimulation can constrict the vessels so much that blood pressin, or endothelin, can also reduce blood flow, at least flow occasionally decreases to as low as zero for a few sec- transiently. onds, despite high arterial pressure. Blood flow changes rarely last for more than a few hours In reality, there are few physiological conditions in in most tissues, even when increases in arterial pressure which tissues display the passive pressure- flow relation- or increased levels of vasoconstrictors are sustained. The ship shown in Figure 14-13. Even in tissues that do not reason for the relative constancy of blood flow is that each effectively autoregulate blood flow during acute changes tissue’s local autoregulatory mechanisms eventually over- in arterial pressure, blood flow is regulated according to ride most of the effects of vasoconstrictors to provide a the needs of the tissue when the pressure changes are sus- blood flow that is appropriate for the needs of the tissue. tained, as discussed in Chapter 17. Pressure- Flow Relationship in Passive Vascular Beds. Vascular Wall Tension. Tension on the blood vessel wall In isolated blood vessels or in tissues that do not exhibit develops in response to transmural pressure gradients autoregulation, changes in arterial pressure may have and causes vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells important effects on blood flow. The effect
