Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


exhibit develops in response to transmural pressure gradients autoregulation, changes in arterial pressure may have and causes vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells important effects on blood flow. The effect of pressure to stretch in all directions (Figure 14-14A). According to on blood flow may be greater than that predicted by Poi- the law of Laplace, wall tension (T) for a thin- walled tube seuille’s equation, as shown by the upward curving lines is proportional to the transmural pressure gradient (ΔP) in Figure 14-13. The reason for this is that increased ar- times the radius (r) of the blood vessel divided by its wall terial pressure not only increases the force that pushes thickness (h): blood through the vessels, but also distends the elastic T = ∆P × (r/h) vessels, actually decreasing vascular resistance. Con- versely, decreased arterial pressure in passive blood ves- Thus, larger blood vessels exposed to high pressures, sels increases resistance as the elastic vessels gradually such as the aorta, must have stronger walls to withstand collapse due to reduced distending pressure. When pres- higher levels of tension and are generally reinforced with sure falls below a critical level, called the critical closing fibrous bands of collagen. In contrast, capillaries have a pressure, flow ceases because the blood vessels are com- much smaller radii and therefore are exposed to much pletely collapsed. lower wall tension, permitting them to withstand pres- Sympathetic stimulation and other vasoconstrictors sures as high as 65 to 70 mm Hg in some organs such as can alter the passive pressure- flow relationship shown the kidneys. As discussed in Chapter 17, chronic changes in Figure 14-13. Thus, inhibition of sympathetic activity in blood pressure lead to remodeling of blood vessels to greatly dilates the vessels and can increase the blood flow accommodate the associated changes in wall tension. 180 )nim/lm( wolf doolB Chapter 14 Overview of the Circulation: Pressure, Flow, and Resistance Vascular Shear Stress. As blood flows it creates a fric- to accommodate the blood flow requirements of the tis- tional force, or drag, on the endothelial cells lining the sues. Endothelial cells contain multiple proteins that to- blood vessels (see Figure 14-14B). This force, called shear gether serve as mechanical sensors and regulate signaling stress, is proportional to the flow velocity and viscosity of pathways that shape the vasculature during embryonic the blood, inversely related to the radius cubed, and gen- development
