Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


regulate signaling stress, is proportional to the flow velocity and viscosity of pathways that shape the vasculature during embryonic the blood, inversely related to the radius cubed, and gen- development and continue altering blood vessel morphol- erally is expressed in force/unit area (e.g., dynes/cm2). In ogy to optimize delivery of blood to tissues in adult life, as clinical practice, there is no single commonly used meth- discussed further in Chapter 17. od for measuring shear stress. However, despite its rela- tively low magnitude compared to contractile forces or Bibliography wall stretch from blood pressure, shear stress is important in the development and adaptation of the vascular system See the bibliography for Chapter 15. 181 UNIT XIV CHAPTER 1 5 Vascular Distensibility and Functions of the Arterial and Venous Systems VASCULAR DISTENSIBILITY VASCULAR COMPLIANCE (OR VASCULAR CAPACITANCE) A valuable characteristic of the vascular system is that all blood vessels are distensible. The distensible nature In hemodynamic studies, it usually is much more impor- of the arteries allows them to accommodate the pulsa- tant to know the total quantity of blood that can be stored tile output of the heart and to average out the pressure in a given portion of the circulation for each mm Hg pres- pulsations. This capability provides smooth continuous sure rise than to know the distensibilities of the individual flow of blood through the very small blood vessels of the vessels. This value is called the compliance or capacitance tissues. of the respective vascular bed; that is: The most distensible of all the vessels are the veins. Increase in volume Vascular compliance= Even slight increases in venous pressure cause the veins Increase in pressure to store 0.5 to 1.0 liter of extra blood. Therefore, the veins provide a reservoir for storing large quantities of Compliance and distensibility are quite different. A highly extra blood that can be called into use whenever blood is distensible vessel that has a small volume may have far required elsewhere in the circulation. less compliance than a much less distensible vessel that has a large volume because compliance is equal to disten- Units of Vascular Distensibility. Vascular distensibility sibility times volume. normally is expressed as the fractional increase in volume The compliance of a systemic vein is about 24 times for each millimeter of mercury rise in pressure, in accord- that of its corresponding artery because it is about 8 times ance
