Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of a systemic vein is about 24 times for each millimeter of mercury rise in pressure, in accord- that of its corresponding artery because it is about 8 times ance with the following formula: as distensible and has a volume about 3 times as great (8 × 3 = 24). Vascular distensibility= Increase in volume VOLUME- PRESSURE CURVES OF THE Increase in pressure×Original volume ARTERIAL AND VENOUS CIRCULATIONS That is, if 1 mm Hg causes a vessel that originally con- A convenient method for expressing the relationship of pres- tained 10 ml of blood to increase its volume by 1 ml, the sure to volume in a vessel or in any portion of the circula- distensibility would be 0.1 per mm Hg, or 10% per mm Hg. tion is to use a volume- pressure curve. The red and blue solid curves in Figure 15-1 represent, respectively, the volume- The Veins Are Much More Distensible Than the pressure curves of the normal systemic arterial system and Arteries. The walls of the arteries are thicker and far venous system, showing that when the arterial system of the stronger than those of the veins. Consequently, the veins, average adult person (including all the large arteries, small on average, are about eight times more distensible than arteries, and arterioles) is filled with about 700 ml of blood, the arteries. That is, a given increase in pressure causes the mean arterial pressure is 100 mm Hg but, when it is filled about eight times as much increase in blood in a vein as in with only 400 ml of blood, the pressure falls to zero. an artery of comparable size. In the entire systemic venous system, the volume nor- In the pulmonary circulation, the pulmonary vein dis- mally ranges from 2000 to 3500 ml, and a change of sev- tensibilities are similar to those of the systemic circula- eral hundred ml in this volume is required to change the tion. However, the pulmonary arteries normally operate venous pressure by only 3 to 5 mm Hg. This requirement under pressures about one sixth of those in the systemic mainly explains why as much as one- half liter of blood can arterial system, and their distensibilities are correspond- be transfused into a healthy person in only a few minutes ingly greater—about six times the distensibility of sys- without greatly altering the function of the circulation. temic arteries.
