Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


correspond- be transfused into a healthy person in only a few minutes ingly greater—about six times the distensibility of sys- without greatly altering the function of the circulation. temic arteries. 183 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation 14 11 24 00 Sympathetic stimulation 1 12 0 co mD pe ll ia ay ne cd e 100 8 80 Sympathetic inhibition 6 4 46 00 ArterN iao lr sm ya sl t ev molume 2 cD oe mla py lie ad n c e 0 20 Venous system 0 20 40 60 80 Minutes 0 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 Figure 15-2. Effect on the intravascular pressure of injecting a vol- ume of blood into a venous segment and later removing the excess Volume (ml) blood, demonstrating the principle of delayed compliance. Figure 15-1. Volume- pressure curves of the systemic arterial and ve- nous systems, showing the effects of stimulation or inhibition of the sympathetic nerves to the circulatory system. vein begin to creep to longer lengths, and their tensions correspondingly decrease. This effect is a characteristic of Effect of Sympathetic Stimulation or Sympathetic all smooth muscle and is called stress- relaxation, as ex- Inhibition on the Volume- Pressure Relationships plained in Chapter 8. of the Arterial and Venous Systems. Also shown Delayed compliance is a valuable mechanism whereby in Figure 15-1 are the effects on the volume- pressure the circulation can accommodate extra blood when nec- curves when the vascular sympathetic nerves are excit- essary, such as after a large transfusion. Delayed com- ed or inhibited. It is evident that an increase in vascular pliance in the reverse direction is one way in which the smooth muscle tone caused by sympathetic stimulation circulation automatically adjusts itself over a period of increases the pressure at each volume of the arteries minutes or hours to diminished blood volume after seri- or veins, whereas sympathetic inhibition decreases the ous hemorrhage. pressure at each volume. Control of the vessels by the sympathetics in this manner is a valuable means for di- ARTERIAL PRESSURE PULSATIONS minishing the dimensions of one segment of the circu- lation, thus transferring blood to other segments. For With each beat of the heart, a new surge of blood fills the example, an increase in vascular tone throughout the arteries. Were it not for distensibility of the arterial sys- systemic circulation can cause large volumes of blood to
