Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood fills the example, an increase in vascular tone throughout the arteries. Were it not for distensibility of the arterial sys- systemic circulation can cause large volumes of blood to tem, all this new blood would have to flow through the shift into the heart, which is one of the principal meth- peripheral blood vessels almost instantaneously, only dur- ods that the body uses to rapidly increase heart pumping. ing cardiac systole, and no flow would occur during dias- Sympathetic control of vascular capacitance is also tole. However, the compliance of the arterial tree normally highly important during hemorrhage. Enhancement of reduces the pressure pulsations to almost no pulsations by sympathetic tone, especially to the veins, reduces the ves- the time the blood reaches the capillaries; therefore, tissue sel sizes enough that the circulation continues to operate blood flow is mainly continuous with very little pulsation. almost normally, even when as much as 25% of the total The pressure pulsations at the root of the aorta are blood volume has been lost. illustrated in Figure 15-3. In a healthy young adult, the pressure at the top of each pulse, called the systolic pres- Delayed Compliance (Stress-R elaxation) of Vessels. sure, is about 120 mm Hg. At the lowest point of each The term delayed compliance means that a vessel exposed pulse, called the diastolic pressure, it is about 80 mm Hg. to increased volume at first exhibits a large increase in The difference between these two pressures, about 40 mm pressure, but progressive delayed stretching of smooth Hg, is called the pulse pressure. muscle in the vessel wall allows the pressure to return Two major factors affect the pulse pressure: (1) the toward normal over a period of minutes to hours. This stroke volume output of the heart; and (2) the compliance effect is shown in Figure 15-2. In this figure, the pressure (total distensibility) of the arterial tree. A third less impor- is recorded in a small segment of a vein that is occluded tant factor is the character of ejection from the heart dur- at both ends. An extra volume of blood is suddenly in- ing systole. jected until the pressure rises from 5 to 12 mm Hg. Even In general, the greater the stroke volume output, the though none of the blood is removed after it is injected, greater the amount of blood that must be accommodated
