Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Even In general, the greater the stroke volume output, the though none of the blood is removed after it is injected, greater the amount of blood that must be accommodated the pressure begins to decrease immediately and ap- in the arterial tree with each heartbeat and, therefore, the proaches about 9 mm Hg after several minutes. Thus, the greater the pressure rise and fall during systole and dias- volume of blood injected causes immediate elastic disten- tole, thus causing a greater pulse pressure. Conversely, tion of the vein, but then the smooth muscle fibers of the the less the compliance of the arterial system, the greater 184 )gH mm( erusserP )gH mm( erusserP desaercnI emulov volume Decreased Chapter 15 Vascular Distensibility and Functions of the Arterial and Venous Systems Exponential diastolic decline (may be distorted by Slow rise Sharp reflected wave) to peak incisura Wave fronts 120 80 Sharp upstroke 60 40 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 Seconds Figure 15-3. Pressure pulse contour in the ascending aorta. 160 120 80 Normal Arteriosclerosis Aortic stenosis 160 Figure 15-5. Progressive stages in transmission of the pressure pulse 120 along the aorta. 80 Normal pressure pulse is decreased significantly because of dimin- 40 Patent ductus Aortic ished blood flow outward through the stenotic valve. arteriosus regurgitation In persons with patent ductus arteriosus, 50% or more 0 of the blood pumped into the aorta by the left ventricle Figure 15-4. Aortic pressure pulse contours in arteriosclerosis, aortic flows immediately backward through the wide open duc- stenosis, patent ductus arteriosus, and aortic regurgitation. tus into the pulmonary artery and lung blood vessels, thus allowing the diastolic pressure to fall very low before the the rise in pressure for a given stroke volume of blood next heartbeat and increasing the pulse pressure. pumped into the arteries. For example, as demonstrated In persons with aortic regurgitation, the aortic valve by the middle top curves in Figure 15-4, the pulse pres- is absent or does not close completely. Therefore, after sure in old age sometimes rises to twice normal because each heartbeat, the blood that has just been pumped the arteries have stiffened with arteriosclerosis and there- into the aorta flows immediately backward into the left fore are relatively noncompliant. ventricle. As a result, the aortic pressure can fall all the In effect, pulse pressure is determined approximately way to zero between
