Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


backward into the left fore are relatively noncompliant. ventricle. As a result, the aortic pressure can fall all the In effect, pulse pressure is determined approximately way to zero between heartbeats. Also, there is no inci- by the ratio of stroke volume output to compliance of the sura in the aortic pulse contour because there is no aor- arterial tree. Any condition of the circulation that affects tic valve to close. either of these two factors also affects the pulse pressure: TRANSMISSION OF PRESSURE PULSES TO Pulse pressure≈Stroke volume/arterial compliance THE PERIPHERAL ARTERIES ABNORMAL PRESSURE PULSE CONTOURS When the heart ejects blood into the aorta during systole, only the proximal portion of the aorta initially becomes Some pathophysiological conditions of the circulation cause distended because the inertia of the blood prevents sud- abnormal contours of the pressure pulse wave in addition to den blood movement all the way to the periphery. How- altering the pulse pressure. Especially distinctive among these ever, the rising pressure in the proximal aorta rapidly conditions are aortic stenosis, patent ductus arteriosus, and overcomes this inertia, and the wavefront of distention aortic regurgitation, each of which is shown in Figure 15-4. spreads farther and farther along the aorta, as shown in In persons with aortic valve stenosis, the diameter of the Figure 15-5. This phenomenon is called transmission of aortic valve opening is reduced significantly, and the aortic the pressure pulse in the arteries. 185 )gH mm( erusserP )gH mm( erusserP UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Therefore, the degree of damping is almost directly propor- Systole Diastole Incisura tional to the product of resistance times compliance. CLINICAL METHODS FOR MEASURING SYSTOLIC AND DIASTOLIC PRESSURES Proximal aorta It is not practical to use pressure recorders that require needle insertion into an artery for making routine arte- rial pressure measurements in human patients, although these types of recorders are used on occasion when spe- Femoral artery cial studies are necessary. Instead, the clinician deter- mines systolic and diastolic pressures through indirect Radial artery means, usually by the auscultatory method. Auscultatory Method. Figure 15-7 shows the ausculta- Arteriole tory method for determining systolic and diastolic arte- rial pressures. A stethoscope is placed over the antecu- Capillary bital artery, and a blood pressure cuff is inflated around the upper arm. As long as the cuff continues to compress the arm with too little pressure to close the brachial ar-
