Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and a blood pressure cuff is inflated around the upper arm. As long as the cuff continues to compress the arm with too little pressure to close the brachial ar- 0 1 2 tery, no sounds are heard from the antecubital artery Time (seconds) with the stethoscope. However, when the cuff pressure is Figure 15-6. Changes in the pulse pressure contour as the pulse great enough to close the artery during part of the arterial wave travels toward the smaller vessels. pressure cycle, a sound is then heard with each pulsation. These sounds are called Korotkoff sounds, named after The velocity of pressure pulse transmission is 3 to 5 m/ Nikolai Korotkoff, a Russian physician, who described sec in the normal aorta, 7 to 10 m/sec in the large arterial them in 1905. branches, and 15 to 35 m/sec in the small arteries. In gen- Korotkoff sounds are believed to be caused mainly by eral, the greater the compliance of each vascular segment, blood jetting through the partly occluded vessel and by the slower the velocity, which explains the slow trans- vibrations of the vessel wall. The jet causes turbulence in mission in the aorta and the much faster transmission the vessel beyond the cuff, and this turbulence sets up the in the much less compliant small distal arteries. In the vibrations heard through the stethoscope. aorta, the velocity of transmission of the pressure pulse In determining blood pressure by the auscultatory is 15 or more times the velocity of blood flow because the method, the pressure in the cuff is first elevated well pressure pulse is simply a moving wave of pressure that above arterial systolic pressure. As long as this cuff pres- involves little forward total movement of blood volume. sure is higher than systolic pressure, the brachial artery remains collapsed so that no blood jets into the lower Pressure Pulses Are Damped in the Smaller Arteries, artery during any part of the pressure cycle. Therefore, Arterioles, and Capillaries. Figure 15-6 shows typical no Korotkoff sounds are heard in the lower artery. Then changes in the pressure pulse contours as the pulse travels the cuff pressure gradually is reduced. Just as soon as the into the peripheral vessels. Note especially in the three pressure in the cuff falls below systolic pressure (point lower curves that the intensity of pulsation becomes pro- B, Figure 15-7), blood begins to flow
