Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Note especially in the three pressure in the cuff falls below systolic pressure (point lower curves that the intensity of pulsation becomes pro- B, Figure 15-7), blood begins to flow through the artery gressively less in the smaller arteries, arterioles and, espe- beneath the cuff during the peak of systolic pressure, and cially, capillaries. In fact, only when the aortic pulsations one begins to hear tapping sounds from the antecubital are extremely large or the arterioles are greatly dilated can artery in synchrony with the heartbeat. As soon as these pulsations be observed in the capillaries. sounds begin to be heard, the pressure level indicated by This progressive diminution of the pulsations in the the manometer connected to the cuff is about equal to the periphery is called damping of the pressure pulses. The systolic pressure. cause of this damping is twofold: (1) resistance to blood As the pressure in the cuff is lowered still more, the movement in the vessels; and (2) compliance of the ves- Korotkoff sounds change in quality, having less of the sels. The resistance damps the pulsations because a small tapping quality and more of a rhythmical and harsher amount of blood must flow forward at the pulse wave quality. Then, finally, when the pressure in the cuff falls front to distend the next segment of the vessel; the greater near diastolic pressure, the sounds suddenly change to the resistance, the more difficult it is for this to occur. The a muffled quality (point C, Figure 15-7). One notes the compliance damps the pulsations because the more com- manometer pressure when the Korotkoff sounds change pliant a vessel, the greater the quantity of blood required to the muffled quality, and this pressure is about equal to at the pulse wave front to cause an increase in pressure. the diastolic pressure, although it slightly overestimates 186 Chapter 15 Vascular Distensibility and Functions of the Arterial and Venous Systems A gives values within 10% of those determined by direct 140 catheter measurement from inside the arteries. B 120 Automated Oscillometric Method. Systolic and diastol- ic arterial pressures are often measured using automated 100 oscillometric devices. These devices use a sphygmoma- nometer cuff, like the auscultatory method, but with an 80 C electronic pressure sensor to detect cuff pressure oscil- lations that occur when blood flows through an artery, D 60 often the brachial artery. Oscillometric arterial pressure
