Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with an 80 C electronic pressure sensor to detect cuff pressure oscil- lations that occur when blood flows through an artery, D 60 often the brachial artery. Oscillometric arterial pressure devices use specific electronic algorithms to inflate and 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 deflate the cuff automatically and interpret the cuff pres- Time (sec) sure oscillations. When the cuff is inflated, and its pres- sure exceeds systolic pressure, there is no blood flow in the artery and no oscillation of the cuff pressure. As the A B C D cuff is slowly deflated, blood begins to spurt through the Sounds artery, and the cuff pressure then oscillates in synchrony with the cyclic expansion and contraction of the artery. As the cuff pressure declines, the oscillations increase in amplitude to a maximum, which corresponds to the mean arterial pressure. The oscillation amplitude then declines as the cuff pressure falls below the patient’s diastolic pres- sure and blood flows smoothly through the artery. Using device- specific algorithms, the cuff pressure oscillations are automatically converted into digital systolic and dias- tolic pressures signals, as well as heart rate, and displayed. Oscillometric arterial pressure monitors require less skill than the auscultatory technique and can be used by the patient at home, avoiding the so-c alled white-c oat effect that raises blood pressure in some patients when a health care professional is present. These devices, however, must be calibrated for accuracy and can yield unreliable mea- surements in patients when the cuff size is inappropriate or in some abnormal circulatory conditions, such as severe arteriosclerosis, which increases stiffness of the artery wall. Normal Arterial Pressures as Measured by the Auscultatory and Oscillatory Methods. Figure 15-8 Figure 15-7. Auscultatory method for measuring systolic and dias- shows the approximate normal systolic and diastolic arte- tolic arterial pressures. rial pressures at different ages. The progressive increase in pressure with age results from the effects of aging on the diastolic pressure determined by direct intra- arterial the blood pressure control mechanisms. We shall see in catheter. As the cuff pressure falls a few mm Hg further, Chapter 19 that the kidneys are primarily responsible for the artery no longer closes during diastole, which means this long- term regulation of arterial pressure; it is well that the basic factor causing the sounds (the jetting of known that the kidneys exhibit definitive changes with blood through a squeezed artery)
