Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


regulation of arterial pressure; it is well that the basic factor causing the sounds (the jetting of known that the kidneys exhibit definitive changes with blood through a squeezed artery) is no longer present. age, especially after the age of 50 years. Therefore, the sounds disappear entirely. Many clinicians A slight extra increase in systolic pressure usually believe that the pressure at which the Korotkoff sounds occurs beyond the age of 60 years. This increase results completely disappear should be used as the diastolic pres- from decreasing distensibility, or hardening, of the arter- sure, except in situations in which the disappearance of ies, which is often a result of atherosclerosis. The final sounds cannot reliably be determined because sounds effect is a higher systolic pressure with considerable are audible, even after complete deflation of the cuff. For increase in pulse pressure, as previously explained. example, in patients with arteriovenous fistulas for hemo- dialysis or with aortic insufficiency, Korotkoff sounds may Mean Arterial Pressure. The mean arterial pressure is be heard after complete deflation of the cuff. the average of the arterial pressures measured millisecond The auscultatory method for determining systolic and by millisecond over a period of time. It is not equal to the diastolic pressures is not entirely accurate, but it usually average of the systolic and diastolic pressures because at 187 )gH mm( erusserP UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation 200 that causes rapid inflow of blood into the right atrium from the peripheral veins elevates the right atrial pressure. 150 Systolic Some factors that can increase this venous return and thereby increase the right atrial pressure are as follows: (1) Mean increased blood volume; (2) increased large vessel tone 100 throughout the body with resultant increased peripheral Diastolic venous pressures; and (3) dilation of the arterioles, which 50 decreases the peripheral resistance and allows rapid flow of blood from the arteries into the veins. 0 The same factors that regulate right atrial pressure also 0 20 40 60 80 contribute to the regulation of cardiac output because Age (years) the amount of blood pumped by the heart depends on Figure 15-8. Changes in systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pres- both the ability of the heart to pump and the tendency for sures with age. The shaded areas show the approximate normal ranges. blood to flow into the heart from the peripheral vessels. Therefore, we discuss regulation of
