Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and the tendency for sures with age. The shaded areas show the approximate normal ranges. blood to flow into the heart from the peripheral vessels. Therefore, we discuss regulation of right atrial pressure in much more depth in Chapter 20 in connection with normal heart rates, a greater fraction of the cardiac cycle cardiac output regulation. is spent in diastole than in systole. Thus, the arterial pres- The normal right atrial pressure is about 0 mm Hg, sure remains closer to diastolic pressure than to systolic which is equal to the atmospheric pressure around the pressure during the greater part of the cardiac cycle. The body. It can increase to 20 to 30 mm Hg under very mean arterial pressure is therefore determined about 60% abnormal conditions, such as the following: (1) serious by the diastolic pressure and 40% by the systolic pressure. heart failure; or (2) after massive transfusion of blood, Note in Figure 15-8 that the mean pressure (solid green which greatly increases the total blood volume and causes line) at all ages is nearer to the diastolic pressure than to excessive quantities of blood to attempt to flow into the the systolic pressure. However, at very high heart rates, heart from the peripheral vessels. diastole comprises a smaller fraction of the cardiac cycle, The lower limit to the right atrial pressure is usually and the mean arterial pressure is more closely approxi- about –3 to –5 mm Hg below atmospheric pressure, which mated as the average of systolic and diastolic pressures. is also the pressure in the chest cavity that surrounds the heart. The right atrial pressure approaches these low val- VEINS AND THEIR FUNCTIONS ues when the heart pumps with exceptional vigor or when blood flow into the heart from the peripheral vessels is The veins provide passageways for flow of blood to the greatly depressed, such as after severe hemorrhage. heart, but they also perform other special functions that Venous Resistance and Peripheral Venous are necessary for operation of the circulation. Of special Pressure importance is that they are capable of constricting and enlarging and thereby storing small or large quantities Large veins have so little resistance to blood flow when of blood and making this blood available when required they are distended that the resistance then is almost by the remainder of the circulation. The peripheral veins zero. However, as shown in Figure 15-9,
