Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


this blood available when required they are distended that the resistance then is almost by the remainder of the circulation. The peripheral veins zero. However, as shown in Figure 15-9, most of the can also propel blood forward by means of a so- called large veins that enter the thorax are compressed at many venous pump, and they even help regulate cardiac output, points by the surrounding tissues, so that blood flow is an exceedingly important function described in detail in impeded at these points. For example, the veins from Chapter 20. the arms are compressed by their sharp angulations over the first rib. Also, the pressure in the neck veins often VENOUS PRESSURES—RIGHT ATRIAL falls so low that the atmospheric pressure on the outside PRESSURE (CENTRAL VENOUS PRESSURE) of the neck causes these veins to collapse. Finally, veins AND PERIPHERAL VENOUS PRESSURES coursing through the abdomen are often compressed by different organs and by the intra- abdominal pressure, so Blood from all the systemic veins flows into the right they usually are at least partially collapsed to an ovoid or atrium of the heart. Therefore, the pressure in the right slitlike state. For these reasons, the large veins do usu- atrium is called the central venous pressure. ally offer some resistance to blood flow, and thus the pres- Right atrial pressure is regulated by a balance between sure in the more peripheral small veins in a person lying (1) the ability of the heart to pump blood out of the right down is usually +4 to +6 mm Hg greater than the right atrium and ventricle into the lungs and (2) the tendency atrial pressure. for blood to flow from the peripheral veins into the right atrium. If the right heart is pumping strongly, the right Effect of High Right Atrial Pressure on Peripheral atrial pressure decreases. Conversely, weakness of the Venous Pressure. When the right atrial pressure rises heart elevates the right atrial pressure. Also, any effect above its normal value of 0 mm Hg, blood begins to back 188 )gH mm( erusserP Chapter 15 Vascular Distensibility and Functions of the Arterial and Venous Systems Sagittal sinus −10 mm Hg 0 mm Hg 0 mm Hg Atmospheric pressure collapse in neck +6 mm Hg +8 mm Hg Rib collapse Axillary collapse Intrathoracic +22 mm Hg pressure = –4 mm Hg +35 mm Hg Abdominal pressure collapse +40 mm
