Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


collapse in neck +6 mm Hg +8 mm Hg Rib collapse Axillary collapse Intrathoracic +22 mm Hg pressure = –4 mm Hg +35 mm Hg Abdominal pressure collapse +40 mm Hg Figure 15-9. Compression points that tend to collapse the veins en- tering the thorax. up in the large veins. This backup of blood enlarges the veins, and even the collapse points in the veins open up when the right atrial pressure rises above +4 to +6 mm Hg. Then, as the right atrial pressure rises further, the ad- +90 mm Hg ditional increase causes a corresponding rise in periph- eral venous pressure in the limbs and elsewhere. Because heart function must be impaired significantly to cause a Figure 15-10. Effect of gravitational pressure on the venous pres- rise in right atrial pressure as high as +4 to +6 mm Hg, sures throughout the body in the standing person. the peripheral venous pressure is not noticeably elevated, even in the early stages of heart failure, as long as the per- son is at rest. Gravitational pressure also occurs in the vascular sys- tem because of the weight of the blood in the vessels, Effect of Intra- abdominal Pressure on Venous as shown in Figure 15-10. When a person is standing, Pressures of the Leg. The pressure in the abdominal the pressure in the right atrium remains about 0 mm Hg cavity of a recumbent person normally averages about because the heart pumps any excess blood that attempts +6 mm Hg, but it can rise to +15 to +30 mm Hg as a re- to accumulate at this point into the arteries. However, in sult of pregnancy, large tumors, abdominal obesity, or an adult who is standing absolutely still, the pressure in excessive fluid (called ascites) in the abdominal cavity. the veins of the feet is about +90 mm Hg simply because When the intra- abdominal pressure rises, the pressure of the gravitational weight of the blood in the veins in the veins of the legs must rise above the abdominal between the heart and the feet. The venous pressures at pressure before the abdominal veins will open and al- other levels of the body are proportionately between 0 low the blood to flow from the legs to the heart. Thus, and 90 mm Hg. if the intra- abdominal pressure is +20 mm Hg, the low- In the arm veins, the
