Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood to flow from the legs to the heart. Thus, and 90 mm Hg. if the intra- abdominal pressure is +20 mm Hg, the low- In the arm veins, the pressure at the level of the top est possible pressure in the femoral veins is also about rib is usually about +6 mm Hg because of compression of +20 mm Hg. the subclavian vein as it passes over this rib. The gravita- tional pressure down the length of the arm is then deter- Effect of Gravitational Pressure on mined by the distance below the level of this rib. Thus, if Venous Pressure the gravitational difference between the level of the rib In any body of water that is exposed to air, the pressure at and the hand is +29 mm Hg, this gravitational pressure is the surface of the water is equal to atmospheric pressure, added to the +6 mm Hg pressure caused by compression but the pressure rises 1 mm Hg for each 13.6 millimeters of the vein as it crosses the rib, making a total of +35 mm of distance below the surface. This pressure results from Hg pressure in the veins of the hand. the weight of the water and therefore is called gravita- The neck veins of a person standing upright collapse tional pressure or hydrostatic pressure. almost completely all the way to the skull because of 189 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation atmospheric pressure on the outside of the neck. This Deep vein collapse causes the pressure in these veins to remain at zero along their entire extent. Any tendency for the pres- Perforating sure to rise above this level opens the veins and allows the vein pressure to fall back to zero because of flow of the blood. Conversely, any tendency for the neck vein pressure to fall Superficial below zero collapses the veins still more, which further vein increases their resistance and again returns the pressure back to zero. The veins inside the skull, on the other hand, are in a chamber (the skull cavity) that cannot collapse. Conse- quently, negative pressure can exist in the dural sinuses Valve of the head; in the standing position, the venous pressure in the sagittal sinus at the top of the brain is about −10 mm Hg because of the hydrostatic “suction” between the top of the skull and the base of the skull. Therefore,
