Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sinus at the top of the brain is about −10 mm Hg because of the hydrostatic “suction” between the top of the skull and the base of the skull. Therefore, if the sagittal sinus is opened during surgery, air can be sucked immediately into the venous system; the air may even pass downward to cause air embolism in the heart Figure 15-11. Venous valves of the leg. and death. Effect of the Gravitational Factor on Arterial and within the 15 to 30 minutes of standing absolutely still, Other Pressures. The gravitational factor also affects which may lead to fainting, as sometimes occurs when a pressures in the peripheral arteries and capillaries. For soldier is made to stand at attention. This situation can be example, a standing person who has a mean arterial pres- avoided by simply flexing the leg muscles periodically and sure of 100 mm Hg at the level of the heart has an arterial slightly bending the knees, thus permitting the venous pressure in the feet of about 190 mm Hg. Therefore, when pump to work. the arterial pressure is stated to be 100 mm Hg, this gen- erally means that 100 mm Hg is the pressure at the gravi- Venous Valve Incompetence Causes Varicose Veins. tational level of the heart but not necessarily elsewhere in The valves of the venous system may become incom- the arterial vessels. petent or even be destroyed when the veins have been overstretched by excess venous pressure lasting weeks or Venous Valves and the Venous Pump: months, which can occur in pregnancy or when a person Their Effects on Venous Pressure stands most of the time. Stretching the veins increases Were it not for valves in the veins, the gravitational pres- their cross- sectional areas, but the leaflets of the valves do sure effect would cause the venous pressure in the feet not increase in size. Therefore, the leaflets of the valves no always to be about +90 mm Hg in a standing adult. How- longer close completely. With this lack of complete clo- ever, every time the legs move, the muscles tighten and sure, the pressure in the veins of the legs increases greatly compress the veins in or adjacent to the muscles, which because of failure of the venous pump, which further in- squeezes the blood out of the veins. However, the valves creases the sizes of the veins and
