Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the muscles, which because of failure of the venous pump, which further in- squeezes the blood out of the veins. However, the valves creases the sizes of the veins and finally destroys the func- in the veins, shown in Figure 15-11, are arranged so that tion of the valves entirely. Thus, the person develops what the direction of venous blood flow can only be toward are called varicose veins, which are characterized by large the heart. Consequently, every time a person moves the bulbous protrusions of the veins beneath the skin of the legs or even tenses the leg muscles, a certain amount of entire leg, particularly the lower leg. venous blood is propelled toward the heart. This pumping Whenever people with varicose veins stand for more system is known as the venous pump or muscle pump, and than a few minutes, the venous and capillary pressures it is efficient enough that under ordinary circumstances, become very high, and leakage of fluid from the capil- the venous pressure in the feet of a walking adult remains laries causes constant edema in the legs. The edema, in less than +20 mm Hg. turn, prevents adequate diffusion of nutritional materi- If a person stands perfectly still, the venous pump als from the capillaries to the muscle and skin cells, so does not work, and the venous pressures in the lower the muscles become painful and weak, and the skin may legs increase to the full gravitational value of 90 mm Hg even become gangrenous and ulcerate. The best treat- in about 30 seconds. The pressures in the capillaries also ment for such a condition is continual elevation of the increase greatly, causing fluid to leak from the circula- legs to a level at least as high as the heart. Tight binders tory system into the tissue spaces. As a result, the legs or long compression stockings on the legs also can be of swell, and the blood volume diminishes; 10% to 20% of considerable assistance in preventing the edema and its the blood volume can be lost from the circulatory system sequelae. 190 Chapter 15 Vascular Distensibility and Functions of the Arterial and Venous Systems Clinical Estimation of Venous Pressure Venous pressure Right ventricle often can be estimated by simply observing the degree of distention of the peripheral veins, especially of the neck veins. For example, in the sitting position, the neck
