Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Right ventricle often can be estimated by simply observing the degree of distention of the peripheral veins, especially of the neck veins. For example, in the sitting position, the neck veins are never distended in the normal, quietly resting person. Right atrium However, when the right atrial pressure becomes increased to as much as +10 mm Hg, the lower veins of the neck begin to protrude and, at +15 mm Hg atrial pressure, essentially all the veins in the neck become distended. Direct Measurement of Venous Pressure and Right Atrial Pressure Venous pressure can be measured easily by inserting a needle directly into a vein and connecting it to a pressure Natural reference recorder. The only means whereby right atrial pressure can point be measured accurately is by inserting a catheter through the peripheral veins and into the right atrium. Pressures Figure 15-12. Reference point for circulatory pressure measurement measured through such central venous catheters are often (located near the tricuspid valve). used in some types of hospitalized cardiac patients to provide a constant assessment of the heart- pumping ability. circulation, as discussed in Chapter 18. These signals, in Pressure Reference Level for Measuring Venous and Other Circulatory Pressures Although we have spoken of turn, elicit nerve signals from the brain and spinal cord, mainly through sympathetic nerves to the veins, causing right atrial pressure as being 0 mm Hg and arterial pressure them to constrict. This process takes up much of the slack as being 100 mm Hg, we have not stated the gravitational level in the circulatory system to which this pressure is in the circulatory system caused by the lost blood. Even referred. There is one point in the circulatory system at which after as much as 20% of the total blood volume has been gravitational pressure factors caused by changes in body lost, the circulatory system often functions almost normally position of a healthy person usually do not affect the pressure because of this variable reservoir function of the veins. measurement by more than 1 to 2 mm Hg. This is at or near the level of the tricuspid valve, as shown by the crossed SPECIFIC BLOOD RESERVOIRS axes in Figure 15-12. Therefore, all circulatory pressure measurements discussed in this text are referred to this level, Certain portions of the circulatory system are so extensive which is called the reference level for pressure measurement. and/or so
