Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


measurements discussed in this text are referred to this level, Certain portions of the circulatory system are so extensive which is called the reference level for pressure measurement. and/or so compliant that they are called specific blood reser- The reason for the lack of gravitational effects at the tri- voirs. These reservoirs include the following: (1) the spleen, cuspid valve is that the heart automatically prevents signifi- which sometimes can decrease in size sufficiently to release cant gravitational changes in pressure at this point in the following way. If the pressure at the tricuspid valve rises as much as 100 ml of blood into other areas of the circula- slightly above normal, the right ventricle fills to a greater tion; (2) the liver, the sinuses of which can release several extent than usual, causing the heart to pump blood more hundred milliliters of blood into the remainder of the circu- rapidly and therefore decreasing the pressure at the tricus- lation; (3) the large abdominal veins, which can contribute pid valve back toward the normal mean value. Conversely, as much as 300 ml; and (4) the venous plexus beneath the if the pressure falls, the right ventricle fails to fill adequately, skin, which also can contribute several hundred milliliters. its pumping decreases, and blood dams up in the venous The heart and lungs, although not parts of the systemic system until the pressure at the tricuspid level again rises to venous reservoir system, may also be considered blood res- the normal value. In other words, the heart acts as a feed- ervoirs. The heart, for example, shrinks during sympathetic back regulator of pressure at the tricuspid valve. stimulation and in this way can contribute some 50 to 100 When a person is lying on his or her back, the tricuspid ml of blood; the lungs can contribute another 100 to 200 valve is located at almost exactly 60% of the chest thickness in front of the back. This is the zero pressure reference level ml when the pulmonary pressures decrease to low values. for a person lying down. THE SPLEEN IS A RESERVOIR FOR RED BLOOD CELLS BLOOD RESERVOIR FUNCTION OF THE VEINS Figure 15-13 shows that the spleen has two separate areas for storing blood, the venous sinuses and the pulp. We indicated in Chapter 14 that more than 60% of all the The sinuses can swell in the same
