Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


separate areas for storing blood, the venous sinuses and the pulp. We indicated in Chapter 14 that more than 60% of all the The sinuses can swell in the same way as any other part of blood in the circulatory system is usually in the veins. the venous system and store whole blood. For this reason, and also because the veins are so compli- In the splenic pulp, the capillaries are so permeable ant, the venous system serves as a blood reservoir for the that whole blood, including the red blood cells, oozes circulation. through the capillary walls into a trabecular mesh, form- When blood is lost from the body, and the arterial pres- ing the red pulp. The red cells are trapped by the trabecu- sure begins to fall, nervous signals are elicited from the lae while the plasma flows on into the venous sinuses and carotid sinuses and other pressure- sensitive areas of the then into the general circulation. As a consequence, the 191 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Reticuloendothelial Cells of the Spleen. The pulp of the spleen contains many large phagocytic reticuloendothelial cells, and the venous sinuses are lined with similar cells. These cells function as part of a cleansing system for the blood, acting in concert with a similar system of reticulo- Pulp endothelial cells in the venous sinuses of the liver. When the blood is invaded by infectious agents, the reticuloendothelial Capillaries cells of the spleen rapidly remove substances such as debris, bacteria, and parasites. Also, in many chronic infections, Venous sinuses the spleen enlarges in the same manner as lymph nodes and then performs its cleansing function even more avidly. Vein Artery Bibliography Badeer HS: Hemodynamics for medical students. Am J Physiol (Adv Physiol Educ) 25:44, 2001. Figure 15-13. Functional structures of the spleen. Bazigou E, Makinen T: Flow control in our vessels: vascular valves make sure there is no way back. Cell Mol Life Sci 70:1055, 2013. Hall JE: Integration and regulation of cardiovascular function. Am J red pulp of the spleen is a special reservoir that contains Physiol (Adv Physiol Educ) 22:s174, 1999. large quantities of concentrated red blood cells. These Hicks JW, Badeer HS: Gravity and the circulation: “open” vs. “closed” concentrated red blood cells can then be expelled into systems. Am J Physiol 262:R725, 1992. Lacolley P, Regnault V, Segers P, Laurent S: Vascular smooth muscle the general
