Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


vs. “closed” concentrated red blood cells can then be expelled into systems. Am J Physiol 262:R725, 1992. Lacolley P, Regnault V, Segers P, Laurent S: Vascular smooth muscle the general circulation whenever the sympathetic ner- cells and arterial stiffening: Relevance in development, aging, and vous system becomes excited and causes the spleen and disease. Physiol Rev 97:1555, 2017. its vessels to contract. As much as 50 ml of concentrated Min E, Schwartz MA: Translocating transcription factors in fluid shear red blood cells can be released into the circulation, rais- stress- mediated vascular remodeling and disease. Exp Cell Res ing the hematocrit by 1% to 2%. 376:92, 2019. O’Rourke MF, Adji A: Noninvasive studies of central aortic pressure. In other areas of the splenic pulp are islands of white Curr Hypertens Rep 14:8, 2012. blood cells, which collectively are called the white pulp. Pickering TG, Hall JE, Appel LJ, et al: Recommendations for blood Here, lymphoid cells are manufactured that are similar to pressure measurement in humans and experimental animals: Part those manufactured in the lymph nodes. They are part of 1: blood pressure measurement in humans: a statement for pro- the body’s immune system, described in Chapter 35. fessionals from the Subcommittee of Professional and Public Edu- cation of the American Heart Association Council on High Blood Pressure Research. Hypertension 45:142, 2005. Blood- Cleansing Function of the Spleen—Removal Stergiou GS, Alpert B, Mieke S, Asmar R, et. al: A Universal Stand- of Old Cells Blood cells passing through the splenic pulp ard for the Validation of Blood Pressure Measuring Devices: Asso- before entering the sinuses undergo thorough squeezing. ciation for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation/European Society of Hypertension/International Organization for Standardi- Therefore, it is to be expected that fragile red blood cells zation (AAMI/ESH/ISO) Collaboration Statement. Hypertension would not withstand the trauma. For this reason, many of 71:368, 2018. the red blood cells are destroyed in the spleen. After the Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, et. al: Guideline cells rupture, the released hemoglobin and cell stroma are for the Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Management of High digested by the reticuloendothelial cells of the spleen, and Blood Pressure in Adults: Executive Summary: A Report of the Ameri- the products of digestion are mainly reused by the body as can College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on nutrients, often used for making new blood cells. Clinical Practice
