Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the products of digestion are mainly reused by the body as can College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on nutrients, often used for making new blood cells. Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 71:1269, 2018. 192 CHAPTER 1 6 The Microcirculation and Lymphatic System: Capillary Fluid Exchange, Interstitial Fluid, and Lymph Flow The most purposeful functions of the microcirculation venules can still contract considerably, despite the weak are the transport of nutrients to the tissues and removal muscle. of cell excreta. The small arterioles control blood flow to This typical arrangement of the capillary bed is not each tissue, and local conditions in the tissues, in turn, found in all parts of the body, although a similar arrange- control the diameters of the arterioles. Thus, each tissue, ment may serve the same purposes. Most importantly, in most cases, controls its own blood flow in relationship the metarterioles and precapillary sphincters are in close to its individual needs as discussed in Chapter 17. contact with the tissues they serve. Therefore, the local The walls of the capillaries are thin and constructed of conditions of the tissues—such as the concentrations of single- layer, highly permeable endothelial cells. Therefore, nutrients, end products of metabolism, and hydrogen water, cell nutrients, and cell excreta can all interchange ions—can cause direct effects on the vessels to control quickly and easily between the tissues and circulating local blood flow in each small tissue area. blood. The peripheral circulation of the entire body has about Structure of the Capillary Wall. Figure 16-2 shows the 10 billion capillaries, with a total surface area estimated to ultramicroscopic structure of typical endothelial cells in be 500 to 700 square meters (about one eighth the surface the capillary wall as found in most organs of the body, area of a football field). It is rare that any single functional especially in muscles and connective tissue. Note that cell of the body is more than 20 to 30 micrometers away the wall is composed of a unicellular layer of endothelial from a capillary. cells and is surrounded by a thin basement membrane on the outside of the capillary. The total thickness of the STRUCTURE OF THE MICROCIRCULATION capillary wall is only about 0.5 micrometer. The internal AND CAPILLARY SYSTEM diameter of the capillary is 4 to 9 micrometers, barely large enough for red blood cells and other blood cells to The microcirculation of each
