Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The internal AND CAPILLARY SYSTEM diameter of the capillary is 4 to 9 micrometers, barely large enough for red blood cells and other blood cells to The microcirculation of each organ is organized to squeeze through. serve that organ’s specific needs. In general, each nutri- ent artery entering an organ branches six to eight times Pores in the Capillary Membrane. Figure 16- 2 shows before the arteries become small enough to be called two small passageways connecting the interior of the cap- arterioles, which generally have internal diameters of illary with the exterior. One of these passageways is an in- only 10 to 15 micrometers. Then, the arterioles branch tercellular cleft, which is the thin- slitted, curving channel two to five times, reaching diameters of 5 to 9 microm- that lies at the top of the figure between adjacent endothe- eters at their ends, where they supply blood to the lial cells. Each cleft is interrupted periodically by short capillaries. ridges of protein attachments that hold the endothelial The arterioles are highly muscular, and their diameters cells together but, between these ridges, fluid can perco- can change by many times. The metarterioles (the termi- late freely through the cleft. The cleft normally has a uni- nal arterioles) do not have a continuous muscular coat, form spacing, with a width of about 6 to 7 nanometers (60 but smooth muscle fibers encircle the vessel at intermit- to 70 angstroms [Å]), which is slightly smaller than the tent points, as shown in Figure 16- 1. diameter of an albumin protein molecule. At the point where each true capillary originates from Because the intercellular clefts are located only at the a metarteriole, a smooth muscle fiber usually encircles the edges of the endothelial cells, they usually represent no capillary. This structure is called the precapillary sphinc- more than 1/1000 of the total surface area of the capillary ter. This sphincter can open and close the entrance to the wall. Nevertheless, the rate of thermal motion of water capillary. molecules, as well as most water- soluble ions and small The venules are larger than the arterioles and have solutes, is so rapid that all these substances diffuse with a much weaker muscular coat. Yet, the pressure in the ease between the interior and exterior of the capillaries venules is much less than that in the arterioles, so the through these slit pores, the intercellular
