Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the pressure in the ease between the interior and exterior of the capillaries venules is much less than that in the arterioles, so the through these slit pores, the intercellular clefts. 193 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Arteriole Venule Intercellular cleft Basement membrane Precapillary sphincters Capillaries Caveolae (Plasmalemmal vesicles) Vesicular Endothelial channel?? cell Caveolin Smooth muscle cells Phospholipid Sphingolipid Cholesterol Metarteriole Figure 16- 2. Structure of the capillary wall. Note especially the in- Arteriovenous bypass tercellular cleft at the junction between adjacent endothelial cells. It Figure 16- 1. Components of the microcirculation. is believed that most water- soluble substances diffuse through the capillary membrane along the clefts. Small membrane invaginations, called caveolae, are believed to play a role in transporting macromol- Present in the endothelial cells are many minute plas- ecules across the cell membrane. Caveolae contain caveolins, which malemmal vesicles, also called caveolae (small caves). are proteins that interact with cholesterol and polymerize to form These plasmalemmal vesicles form from oligomers of pro- the caveolae. teins called caveolins that are associated with molecules of cholesterol and sphingolipids. Although the precise func- tions of caveolae are still unclear, they are believed to play 4. In the glomerular capillaries of the kidney, numer- a role in endocytosis (the process whereby the cell engulfs ous small oval windows called fenestrae penetrate all material from outside the cell) and transcytosis of mac- the way through the middle of the endothelial cells romolecules across the interior of the endothelial cells. so that tremendous amounts of small molecular and The caveolae at the surface of the cell appear to imbibe ionic substances (but not the large molecules of the small packets of plasma or extracellular fluid that contain plasma proteins) can filter through the glomeruli plasma proteins. These vesicles can then move slowly without having to pass through the clefts between through the endothelial cell. Some of these vesicles may the endothelial cells. coalesce to form vesicular channels all the way through the endothelial cell, as shown in Figure 16- 2. FLOW OF BLOOD IN THE CAPILLARIES—VASOMOTION Special Types of Pores in Capillaries of Certain Or- gans. The pores in capillaries of some organs have special Blood usually does not flow continuously through the characteristics to meet the specific needs of the organs. capillaries. Instead, it flows intermittently, turning on and Some of these characteristics are as follows: off every few seconds or minutes.
