Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


characteristics to meet the specific needs of the organs. capillaries. Instead, it flows intermittently, turning on and Some of these characteristics are as follows: off every few seconds or minutes. The cause of this inter- 1. In the brain, the junctions between the capillary en- mittency is the phenomenon called vasomotion, which dothelial cells are mainly tight junctions that allow only means intermittent contraction of the metarterioles and extremely small molecules such as water, oxygen, and precapillary sphincters (and sometimes even the very carbon dioxide to pass into or out of the brain tissues. small arterioles). 2. In the liver, the clefts between the capillary endothe- lial cells are nearly wide open so that almost all dis- Regulation of Vasomotion. The most important factor solved substances of the plasma, including the plasma affecting the degree of opening and closing of the metar- proteins, can pass from the blood into the liver tissues. terioles and precapillary sphincters that has been found 3. The pores of the gastrointestinal capillary mem- thus far is the concentration of oxygen in the tissues. branes are midway in size between those of the When the rate of oxygen usage by the tissue is great— muscles and those of the liver. so that tissue oxygen concentration decreases below 194 Chapter 16 The Microcirculation and Lymphatic System: Capillary Fluid Exchange, Interstitial Fluid, and Lymph Flow Arterial end Blood capillary Venous end stituents in the plasma and interstitial fluids that do not readily pass through the capillary membrane. Lipid- Soluble Substances Diffuse Directly Through the Cell Membranes of the Capillary Endothelium. If a substance is lipid- soluble, it can diffuse directly through the cell membranes of the capillary without having to go through the pores. Such substances include oxygen and carbon dioxide. Because these substances can permeate all areas of the capillary membrane, their rates of trans- port through the capillary membrane are many times faster than the rates for lipid-i nsoluble substances, such as sodium ions and glucose, which can go only through Lymphatic capillary the pores. Water- Soluble, Non–Lipid- Soluble Substances Diffuse Through Intercellular Pores in the Capillary Membrane. Figure 16- 3. Diffusion of fluid molecules and dissolved substances Many substances needed by the tissues are soluble in wa- between the capillary and interstitial fluid spaces. ter but cannot pass through the lipid membranes of the endothelial cells; these include water molecules, sodium normal—the intermittent periods of
