Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in wa- between the capillary and interstitial fluid spaces. ter but cannot pass through the lipid membranes of the endothelial cells; these include water molecules, sodium normal—the intermittent periods of capillary blood flow ions, chloride ions, and glucose. Although only 1/1000 occur more often, and the duration of each period of flow of the surface area of the capillaries is represented by lasts longer, thereby allowing the capillary blood to carry the intercellular clefts between the endothelial cells, the increased quantities of oxygen (as well as other nutrients) velocity of thermal molecular motion in the clefts is so to the tissues. This effect, along with multiple other fac- great that even this small area is sufficient to allow tre- tors that control local tissue blood flow, is discussed in mendous diffusion of water and water- soluble substances Chapter 17. through these cleft pores. To give an idea of the rapidity with which these substances diffuse, the rate at which wa- Average Function of the Capillary System. Despite the ter molecules diffuse through the capillary membrane is fact that blood flow through each capillary is intermittent, about 80 times greater than the rate at which plasma itself so many capillaries are present in the tissues that their flows linearly along the capillary. That is, the water of the overall function becomes averaged. That is, there is an av- plasma is exchanged with the water of the interstitial fluid erage rate of blood flow through each tissue capillary bed, 80 times before the plasma can flow the entire distance an average capillary pressure within the capillaries, and an through the capillary. average rate of transfer of substances between the blood of the capillaries and the surrounding interstitial fluid. In the Effect of Molecular Size on Passage Through the remainder of this chapter, we are concerned with these Pores. The width of the capillary intercellular cleft pores, averages, although it should be remembered that the av- 6 to 7 nanometers, is about 20 times the diameter of the erage functions are, in reality, the functions of billions of water molecule, which is the smallest molecule that nor- individual capillaries, each operating intermittently in re- mally passes through the capillary pores. The diameters sponse to local conditions in the tissues. of plasma protein molecules, however, are slightly greater than the width of the pores. Other substances, such as sodium ions, chloride ions, glucose, and
