Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to local conditions in the tissues. of plasma protein molecules, however, are slightly greater than the width of the pores. Other substances, such as sodium ions, chloride ions, glucose, and urea, have in- EXCHANGE OF WATER, NUTRIENTS, termediate diameters. Therefore, the permeability of the AND OTHER SUBSTANCES BETWEEN capillary pores for different substances varies according THE BLOOD AND INTERSTITIAL FLUID to their molecular diameters. Table 16- 1 lists the relative permeabilities of the capil- Diffusion Through the Capillary Membrane Is the lary pores in skeletal muscle for various substances, dem- Most Important Means of Transferring Substances onstrating, for example, that the permeability for glucose Between Plasma and Interstitial Fluid. Figure 16- 3 il- molecules is 0.6 times that for water molecules, whereas lustrates that as the blood flows along the lumen of the the permeability for albumin molecules is very slight— capillary, tremendous numbers of water molecules and only one 1/1000 that for water molecules. dissolved particles diffuse back and forth through the cap- A word of caution must be stated at this point. The illary wall, providing continual mixing between the inter- capillaries in various tissues have extreme differences stitial fluid and plasma. Electrolytes, nutrients, and waste in their permeabilities. For example, the membranes of products of metabolism all diffuse easily through the cap- the liver capillary sinusoids are so permeable that even illary membrane. The proteins are the only dissolved con- plasma proteins pass through these walls, almost as easily 195 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Table 16- 1 Relative Permeability of Skeletal Muscle Capillary Pores to Different- Sized Molecules Substance Molecular Weight Permeability Free fluid vesicles Water 18 1.00 NaCl 58.5 0.96 Urea 60 0.8 Rivulets of free Glucose 180 0.6 fluid Sucrose 342 0.4 Inulin 5000 0.2 Myoglobin 17,600 0.03 Hemoglobin 68,000 0.01 Albumin 69,000 0.001 Data from Pappenheimer JR: Passage of molecules through capillary walls. Physiol Rev 33:387, 1953. Collagen fiber Proteoglycan Capillary bundles filaments Figure 16- 4. Structure of the interstitium. Proteoglycan filaments are everywhere in the spaces between the collagen fiber bundles. as water and other substances. Also, the permeability of Free fluid vesicles and small amounts of free fluid in the form of rivu- the renal glomerular membrane for water and electrolytes lets occasionally also occur. is about 500 times the permeability of the muscle capillar- ies, but this is not true for the plasma proteins. For these proteins, the capillary
