Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


electrolytes lets occasionally also occur. is about 500 times the permeability of the muscle capillar- ies, but this is not true for the plasma proteins. For these proteins, the capillary permeabilities are very slight, as INTERSTITIUM AND INTERSTITIAL FLUID in other tissues and organs. When we study these differ- ent organs later in this text, it should become clear why About one sixth of the total volume of the body consists some tissues require greater degrees of capillary perme- of spaces between cells, which collectively are called the ability than other tissues. For example, greater degrees of interstitium. The fluid in these spaces is called the inter- capillary permeability are required for the liver to transfer stitial fluid. tremendous amounts of nutrients between the blood and The structure of the interstitium is shown in Figure 16- 4. liver parenchymal cells and for the kidneys to allow filtra- It contains two major types of solid structures: (1) collagen tion of large quantities of fluid for the formation of urine. fiber bundles; and (2) proteoglycan filaments. The collagen fiber bundles extend long distances in the interstitium. Diffusion Through the Capillary Membrane Is Propor- They are extremely strong and provide most of the ten- tional to the Concentration Difference Between the sional strength of the tissues. The proteoglycan filaments, Two Sides of the Membrane. The greater the difference however, are extremely thin, coiled or twisted molecules between the concentrations of any given substance on the composed of about 98% hyaluronic acid and 2% protein. two sides of the capillary membrane, the greater the net These molecules are so thin that they cannot be seen with a movement of the substance in one direction through the light microscope and are difficult to demonstrate, even with membrane. For example, the concentration of oxygen in the electron microscope. Nevertheless, they form a mat of capillary blood is normally greater than in the interstitial very fine reticular filaments aptly described as a brush pile. fluid. Therefore, large quantities of oxygen normally move from the blood toward the tissues. Conversely, the con- Gel in the Interstitium. The fluid in the interstitium is centration of carbon dioxide is greater in the tissues than derived by filtration and diffusion from the capillaries. in the blood, which causes excess carbon dioxide to move It contains almost the same constituents as plasma ex- into the blood and to be carried away from
