Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the capillaries. in the blood, which causes excess carbon dioxide to move It contains almost the same constituents as plasma ex- into the blood and to be carried away from the tissues. cept for much lower concentrations of proteins because The rates of diffusion through the capillary membranes proteins do not easily pass outward through the pores of of most nutritionally important substances are so great the capillaries. The interstitial fluid is entrapped mainly that only slight concentration differences cause more in the minute spaces among the proteoglycan filaments. than adequate transport between the plasma and inter- This combination of proteoglycan filaments and fluid en- stitial fluid. For example, the concentration of oxygen in trapped within them has the characteristics of a gel; it is the interstitial fluid immediately outside the capillary is therefore called tissue gel. no more than a few percent less than its concentration in Because of the large number of proteoglycan filaments, the plasma of the blood, yet this slight difference causes it is difficult for fluid to flow easily through the tissue gel. enough oxygen to move from the blood into the intersti- Instead, fluid mainly diffuses through the gel; that is, it tial spaces to provide all the oxygen required for tissue moves molecule by molecule from one place to another metabolism—often as much as several liters of oxygen per by kinetic thermal motion rather than by large numbers minute during very active states of the body. of molecules moving together. 196 Chapter 16 The Microcirculation and Lymphatic System: Capillary Fluid Exchange, Interstitial Fluid, and Lymph Flow Diffusion through the gel occurs about 95% to 99% Capillary Plasma colloid as rapidly as it does through free fluid. For the short dis- pressure osmotic pressure tances between the capillaries and tissue cells, this diffu- (Pc) ((cid:31)p) sion allows for rapid transport through the interstitium, not only of water molecules but also of substances such as electrolytes, low- molecular- weight nutrients, cellular excreta, oxygen, and carbon dioxide. Interstitial Interstitial fluid fluid pressure colloid osmotic pressure Free Fluid in the Interstitium. Although almost all the (Pif) ((cid:31)if) fluid in the interstitium normally is entrapped within the Figure 16- 5. Fluid pressure and colloid osmotic pressure forces op- tissue gel, occasionally small rivulets of free fluid and small erate at the capillary membrane and tend to move fluid outward or free fluid vesicles are also present, which means
