Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tissue gel, occasionally small rivulets of free fluid and small erate at the capillary membrane and tend to move fluid outward or free fluid vesicles are also present, which means fluid that is inward through the membrane pores. free of the proteoglycan molecules and therefore can flow freely. When a dye is injected into the circulating blood, it often can be seen to flow through the interstitium in the 3. The capillary plasma colloid osmotic pressure small rivulets, usually coursing along the surfaces of col- (Πp), which tends to cause osmosis of fluid inward lagen fibers or surfaces of cells. through the capillary membrane The amount of free fluid present in most normal tis- 4. The interstitial fluid colloid osmotic pressure (Πif), sues is slight, usually less than 1%. Conversely, when the which tends to cause osmosis of fluid outward tissues develop edema, these small pockets and rivulets of through the capillary membrane free fluid expand tremendously until one half or more of If the sum of these forces—the net filtration pressure— the edema fluid becomes free- flowing fluid, independent is positive, there will be a net fluid filtration across the of the proteoglycan filaments. capillaries. If the sum of the Starling forces is negative, there will be a net fluid absorption from the interstitial FLUID FILTRATION ACROSS spaces into the capillaries. The net filtration pressure CAPILLARIES (NFP) is calculated as follows: NFP=Pc−Pif−∏p+∏if The hydrostatic pressure in the capillaries tends to force fluid and its dissolved substances through the capillary pores into As discussed later, the NFP is slightly positive under the interstitial spaces. Conversely, osmotic pressure caused normal conditions, resulting in a net filtration of fluid by the plasma proteins (called colloid osmotic pressure) across the capillaries into the interstitial space in most tends to cause fluid movement by osmosis from the inter- organs. The rate of fluid filtration in a tissue is also deter- stitial spaces into the blood. This osmotic pressure exerted mined by the number and size of the pores in each capil- by the plasma proteins normally prevents significant loss of lary, as well as the number of capillaries in which blood is fluid volume from the blood into the interstitial spaces. flowing. These factors are usually expressed together as Also important is the lymphatic system, which returns the capillary filtration coefficient (K). The K is therefore f f to the circulation the small amounts
