Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are usually expressed together as Also important is the lymphatic system, which returns the capillary filtration coefficient (K). The K is therefore f f to the circulation the small amounts of excess protein and a measure of the capacity of the capillary membranes to fluid that leak from the blood into the interstitial spaces. filter water for a given NFP and is usually expressed as ml/ In the remainder of this chapter, we discuss the mecha- min per mm Hg NFP. nisms that control capillary filtration and lymph flow The rate of capillary fluid filtration is therefore deter- function together to regulate the respective volumes of mined as follows: the plasma and interstitial fluid. Filtration=K ×NFP f Hydrostatic and Colloid Osmotic Forces Determine In the following sections, we discuss each of the forces Fluid Movement Through the Capillary Membrane. that determine the rate of capillary fluid filtration. Figure 16- 5 shows the four primary forces that deter- mine whether fluid will move out of the blood into the CAPILLARY HYDROSTATIC PRESSURE interstitial fluid or in the opposite direction. These forces, called Starling forces, were named after the physiologist Various methods have been used to estimate the capil- Ernest Starling who first demonstrated their importance: lary hydrostatic pressure: (1) direct micropipette cannu- 1. The capillary hydrostatic pressure (Pc), which tends to lation of the capillaries, which gives an average capillary force fluid outward through the capillary membrane pressure of about 25 mm Hg in some tissues, such as 2. The interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure (Pif), the skeletal muscle and gut, and (2) indirect functional which tends to force fluid inward through the cap- measurement of the capillary pressure, which gives a illary membrane when Pif is positive but outward capillary pressure averaging about 17 mm Hg in these when Pif is negative tissues. 197 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Micropipette Method for Measuring Capillary Pressure. Interstitial Fluid Pressures in Tightly Encased Tissues. To measure pressure in a capillary by cannulation, a micro- Some tissues of the body are surrounded by tight en- scopic glass pipette is thrust directly into the capillary, and casements, such as the cranial vault around the brain, the pressure is measured by an appropriate micromanome- the strong fibrous capsule around the kidney, the fibrous ter system. Using this method, capillary pressures have been sheaths around the muscles, and the sclera around the measured in exposed tissues
