Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


strong fibrous capsule around the kidney, the fibrous ter system. Using this method, capillary pressures have been sheaths around the muscles, and the sclera around the measured in exposed tissues of animals and in large capillary eye. In most of these tissues, regardless of the method loops of the eponychium at the base of the fingernail in hu- used for measurement, the interstitial fluid pressures are mans. These measurements have given pressures of 30 to 40 positive. However, these interstitial fluid pressures al- mm Hg in the arterial ends of the capillaries, 10 to 15 mm most invariably are still less than the pressures exerted Hg in the venous ends, and about 25 mm Hg in the middle. on the outsides of the tissues by their encasements. For In some capillaries, such as the glomerular capillaries of the kidneys, the pressures measured by the micropipette example, the cerebrospinal fluid pressure surrounding the method are much higher, averaging about 60 mm Hg. The brain of an animal lying on its side averages about +10 peritubular capillaries of the kidneys, in contrast, have a mm Hg, whereas the brain interstitial fluid pressure aver- hydrostatic pressure that averages only about 13 mm Hg. ages about +4 to +6 mm Hg. In the kidneys, the capsular Thus, the capillary hydrostatic pressures in different tissues pressure surrounding the kidney averages about +13 mm are highly variable, depending on the particular tissue and Hg, whereas the reported renal interstitial fluid pressures the physiological condition. have averaged about +6 mm Hg. Thus, if one remembers that the pressure exerted on the skin is atmospheric pres- INTERSTITIAL FLUID HYDROSTATIC sure, which is considered to be zero pressure, one might PRESSURE formulate a general rule that the normal interstitial fluid There are several methods for measuring interstitial fluid pressure is usually several millimeters of mercury negative hydrostatic pressure, each of which gives slightly different with respect to the pressure that surrounds each tissue. values, depending on the method used and the tissue in In most natural cavities of the body, where there is free which the pressure is measured. In loose subcutaneous fluid in dynamic equilibrium with the surrounding inter- tissue, interstitial fluid pressure measured by the differ- stitial fluids, the pressures that have been measured have ent methods is usually a few millimeters of mercury less been negative. Some of these cavities and pressure mea- than atmospheric pressure;
