Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fluids, the pressures that have been measured have ent methods is usually a few millimeters of mercury less been negative. Some of these cavities and pressure mea- than atmospheric pressure; that is, the values are called surements are as follows: negative interstitial fluid pressure. In other tissues that are • Intrapleural space: −8 mm Hg surrounded by capsules, such as the kidneys, the intersti- • Joint synovial spaces: −4 to −6 mm Hg tial pressure is generally positive (i.e., greater than atmo- • Epidural space: −4 to −6 mm Hg spheric pressure). The methods most widely used have Summary: Interstitial Fluid Pressure in Loose Subcu- been: (1) measurement of the pressure with a micropi- pette inserted into the tissues; (2) measurement of the taneous Tissue Usually Subatmospheric. Although the pressure from implanted perforated capsules; and (3) aforementioned different methods give slightly different measurement of the pressure from a cotton wick inserted values for interstitial fluid pressure, most physiologists into the tissue. These different methods provide differ- believe that the interstitial fluid pressure in loose subcu- ent values for interstitial hydrostatic pressure, even in the taneous tissue is, in normal conditions, slightly less subat- same tissues. mospheric, averaging about −3 mm Hg. Measurement of Interstitial Fluid Pressure Using Pumping by the Lymphatic System—Basic Cause Micropipettes. The same type of micropipette used for meas- of the Negative Interstitial Fluid Pressure. The lym- uring capillary pressure can also be used in some tissues for phatic system is discussed later in the chapter, but first we measuring interstitial fluid pressure. The tip of the micropi- need to understand the basic role that this system plays pette is about 1 micrometer in diameter, but even this is 20 or in determining interstitial fluid pressure. The lymphatic more times larger than the sizes of the spaces between the pro- system is a kind of scavenger system that removes excess teoglycan filaments of the interstitium. Therefore, the pressure fluid, excess protein molecules, debris, and other matter that is measured is probably the pressure in a free fluid pocket. from the tissue spaces. Normally, when fluid enters the Pressures measured using the micropipette method terminal lymphatic capillaries, the lymph vessel walls au- range from −2 to +2 mm Hg in loose tissues, such as skin tomatically contract for a few seconds and pump the fluid but, in most cases, they average slightly less than atmos- pheric pressure. into
