Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Hg in loose tissues, such as skin tomatically contract for a few seconds and pump the fluid but, in most cases, they average slightly less than atmos- pheric pressure. into the blood circulation. This overall process creates the Measurement of Interstitial Free Fluid Pressure in slight negative pressure that has been measured for fluid Implanted Perforated Hollow Capsules. Interstitial free in the interstitial spaces. fluid pressure measured when using 2-c entimeter diam- eter capsules in normal loose subcutaneous tissue averages PLASMA COLLOID OSMOTIC PRESSURE about −6 mm Hg but, with smaller capsules, the values are not greatly different from the −2 mm Hg measured by the Plasma Proteins Cause Colloid Osmotic Pressure. As micropipette. discussed in Chapter 4, only the molecules or ions that fail 198 Chapter 16 The Microcirculation and Lymphatic System: Capillary Fluid Exchange, Interstitial Fluid, and Lymph Flow to pass through the pores of a semipermeable membrane total quantity of protein in the plasma but, because this exert osmotic pressure. Because the proteins are the only volume is four times the volume of plasma, the average dissolved constituents in the plasma and interstitial fluids protein concentration of the interstitial fluid of most tis- that do not readily pass through the capillary pores, it is sues is usually only 40% of that in plasma, or about 3 g/ the proteins of the plasma and interstitial fluids that are dl. Quantitatively, the average interstitial fluid colloid responsible for the osmotic pressures on the two sides of osmotic pressure for this concentration of proteins is the capillary membrane. To distinguish this osmotic pres- about 8 mm Hg. sure from that which occurs at the cell membrane, it is called colloid osmotic pressure or oncotic pressure. The FLUID VOLUME EXCHANGE THROUGH term colloid osmotic pressure is derived from the fact that THE CAPILLARY MEMBRANE a protein solution resembles a colloidal solution, despite the fact that it is actually a true molecular solution. The different factors affecting fluid movement through the capillary membrane have been discussed, so we can Normal Values for Plasma Colloid Osmotic Pressure. put all these factors together to see how the capillary sys- The colloid osmotic pressure of normal human plasma av- tem maintains normal fluid volume distribution between erages about 28 mm Hg; 19 mm of this pressure is caused the plasma and interstitial fluid. by molecular effects of the dissolved protein, and 9 mm is The
