Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


between erages about 28 mm Hg; 19 mm of this pressure is caused the plasma and interstitial fluid. by molecular effects of the dissolved protein, and 9 mm is The average capillary pressure at the arterial ends caused by the Donnan effect—that is, extra osmotic pres- of the capillaries is 15 to 25 mm Hg greater than at sure caused by sodium, potassium, and the other cations the venous ends. Because of this difference, fluid filters bound to the plasma proteins. out of the capillaries at their arterial ends but, at their venous ends, fluid is reabsorbed back into the capillaries Effect of the Different Plasma Proteins on Colloid Osmotic (see Figure 16-3 ). Thus, a small amount of fluid actually Pressure. The plasma proteins are a mixture that contains al- “flows” through the tissues from the arterial ends of the bumin, globulins, and fibrinogen, with an average molecular capillaries to the venous ends. The dynamics of this flow weight of 69,000, 140,000, and 400,000, respectively. Thus, 1 are as follows. gram of globulin contains only half as many molecules as 1 gram of albumin, and 1 gram of fibrinogen contains only one Analysis of the Forces Causing Filtration at the sixth as many molecules as 1 gram of albumin. It should be Arterial End of the Capillary. The approximate average recalled from the discussion of osmotic pressure in Chapter 4 that osmotic pressure is determined by the number of mol- forces operative at the arterial end of the capillary that ecules dissolved in a fluid rather than by the mass of these mol- cause movement through the capillary membrane are ecules. The following chart gives both the relative mass con- shown as follows: centrations (g/dl) of the different types of proteins in normal mm Hg plasma and their respective contributions to the total plasma Forces Tending to Move Fluid Outward colloid osmotic pressure (Πp). These values include the Don- Capillary hydrostatic pressure (arterial end of 30 nan effect of ions bound to the plasma proteins: capillary) g/dl Πp (mm Hg) Negative interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure 3 Albumin 4.5 21.8 Interstitial fluid colloid osmotic pressure 8 Globulins 2.5 6.0 TOTAL OUTWARD FORCE 41 Fibrinogen 0.3 0.2 Total 7.3 28.0 Forces Tending to Move Fluid Inward Plasma colloid osmotic pressure 28 Thus, about 80% of the total colloid osmotic pressure of the plasma results from the albumin, 20% from the globu-
