Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


slight imbal- Summation of Forces ance of forces, 0.3 mm Hg, causes slightly more filtration Inward 28 of fluid into the interstitial spaces than reabsorption. This Outward 21 slight excess of filtration is called net filtration, and it is the NET INWARD FORCE 7 fluid that must be returned to the circulation through the lymphatics. The normal rate of net filtration in the entire Thus, there is a net reabsorption pressure of 7 mm Hg body, not including the kidneys, is only about 2 ml/min. at the venous ends of the capillaries. This reabsorption pressure is considerably less than the filtration pressure at CAPILLARY FILTRATION COEFFICIENT the capillary arterial ends, but remember that the venous capillaries are more numerous and more permeable than In the previous example, an average net imbalance of the arterial capillaries. Thus less reabsorption pressure is forces at the capillary membranes of 0.3 mm Hg causes required to cause inward movement of fluid. net fluid filtration in the entire body of 2 ml/min. Express- The reabsorption pressure causes about nine tenths ing the net fluid filtration rate for each mm Hg imbalance, of the fluid that has filtered out of the arterial ends of one finds a net filtration rate of 6.67 ml/min of fluid per the capillaries to be reabsorbed at the venous ends. The mm Hg for the entire body. This value is called the whole remaining one tenth flows into the lymph vessels and body capillary filtration coefficient. returns to the circulating blood. The filtration coefficient can also be expressed for sepa- rate parts of the body in terms of the rate of filtration per STARLING EQUILIBRIUM FOR CAPILLARY minute per mm Hg per 100 grams of tissue. On this basis, EXCHANGE the capillary filtration coefficient of the average tissue is about 0.01 ml/min per mm Hg per 100 g of tissue. How- Ernest Starling pointed out more than a century ago that ever, because of extreme differences in permeabilities and under normal conditions, a state of near- equilibrium surface areas of the capillary systems in different tissues, exists in most capillaries. That is, the amount of fluid this coefficient varies more than 100-f old among the dif- filtering outward from the arterial ends of capillaries ferent tissues. It is very small in brain and muscle, mod- almost exactly equals the fluid returned to the circulation erately large in subcutaneous tissue, large in
