Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ends of capillaries ferent tissues. It is very small in brain and muscle, mod- almost exactly equals the fluid returned to the circulation erately large in subcutaneous tissue, large in the intestine, by absorption. The slight disequilibrium that does occur and extremely large in the liver and glomerulus of the kid- accounts for the fluid that is eventually returned to the ney, where the capillary surface is large, and the pores are circulation by way of the lymphatics. numerous or wide open. By the same token, the permeation The following chart shows the principles of the Starling of proteins through the capillary membranes also varies equilibrium. For this chart, the pressures in the arterial greatly. The concentration of protein in the interstitial fluid and venous capillaries are averaged to calculate mean the of muscles is about 1.5 g/dl; in subcutaneous tissue, it is 2 functional capillary pressure for the entire length of the g/dl; in the intestine, it is 4 g/dl; and, in the liver, it is 6 g/dl. capillary. This mean functional capillary pressure is calcu- lated to be 17.3 mm Hg. Effect of Abnormal Imbalance of Forces at the Capil- mm Hg lary Membrane. If the mean capillary pressure rises signif- Mean Forces Tending to Move Fluid Outward icantly above the average value of 17 mm Hg, the net force tending to cause filtration of fluid into the tissue spaces rises. Mean capillary pressure 17.3 Thus, a 20-m m Hg rise in mean capillary pressure causes an Negative interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure 3.0 increase in net filtration pressure from 0.3 to 20.3 mm Hg, 200 Chapter 16 The Microcirculation and Lymphatic System: Capillary Fluid Exchange, Interstitial Fluid, and Lymph Flow Masses of lymphocytes and macrophages Cervical nodes Subclavian vein R. lymphatic duct Axillary nodes Thoracic duct Cisterna chyli Abdominal nodes Inguinal nodes Lymphatic Peripheral lymphatics vessel Blood capillary Tissue cell Lymphatic capillary Interstitial fluid Figure 16- 6. The lymphatic system. which results in 68 times as much net filtration of fluid into LYMPH CHANNELS OF THE BODY the interstitial spaces as normally occurs. To prevent accu- mulation of excess fluid in these spaces would require 68 Almost all tissues of the body have special lymph chan- times the normal flow of fluid into the lymphatic system, an nels that drain excess fluid directly from the interstitial amount that is 2 to 5 times too much for the lymphatics
