Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


normal flow of fluid into the lymphatic system, an nels that drain excess fluid directly from the interstitial amount that is 2 to 5 times too much for the lymphatics to spaces. The exceptions include the superficial portions carry away. As a result, fluid will begin to accumulate in the of the skin, central nervous system, endomysium of mus- interstitial spaces and edema will result. cles, and bones. However, even these tissues have minute Conversely, if the capillary pressure falls very low, net interstitial channels called prelymphatics through which reabsorption of fluid into the capillaries will occur instead interstitial fluid can flow; this fluid eventually empties of net filtration, and the blood volume will increase at the into lymphatic vessels or, in the case of the brain, into expense of the interstitial fluid volume. These effects of the cerebrospinal fluid and then directly back into the imbalance at the capillary membrane in relationship to blood. the development of the different types of edema are dis- Essentially all the lymph vessels from the lower part of cussed in Chapter 25. the body eventually empty into the thoracic duct, which in turn empties into the blood venous system at the juncture LYMPHATIC SYSTEM of the left internal jugular vein and left subclavian vein, as shown in Figure 16- 6. The lymphatic system represents an accessory route Lymph from the left side of the head, left arm, and parts through which fluid can flow from the interstitial spaces of the chest region also enters the thoracic duct before it into the blood. Most importantly, the lymphatics can carry empties into the veins. proteins and large particulate matter away from the tissue Lymph from the right side of the neck and head, right spaces, neither of which can be removed by absorption arm, and parts of the right thorax enters the right lymph directly into the blood capillaries. This return of proteins duct (much smaller than the thoracic duct), which emp- to the blood from the interstitial spaces is an essential func- ties into the blood venous system at the juncture of the tion, without which we would die within about 24 hours. right subclavian vein and internal jugular vein. 201 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation 20 Endothelial cells Valves 10 2 times/ 7 times/ mm Hg mm Hg 1 Anchoring filaments −6 −4 −2 0 2 4 Figure 16- 7. Special structure
