Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


IV The Circulation 20 Endothelial cells Valves 10 2 times/ 7 times/ mm Hg mm Hg 1 Anchoring filaments −6 −4 −2 0 2 4 Figure 16- 7. Special structure of the lymphatic capillaries that per- P (mm Hg) if mits passage of substances of high molecular weight into the lymph. Figure 16-8 . Relationship between interstitial fluid pressure and lymph flow in the leg of a dog. Note that lymph flow reaches a Terminal Lymphatic Capillaries and Their Perme- maximum when the interstitial pressure (P ) rises slightly above if ability. Most of the fluid filtering from the arterial ends atmospheric pressure (0 mm Hg). (Courtesy Dr. Harry Gibson and Dr. Aubrey Taylor.) of blood capillaries flows among the cells and finally is reabsorbed back into the venous ends of the blood capil- laries but, on average, about one tenth of the fluid instead The protein concentration in the interstitial fluid of enters the lymphatic capillaries and returns to the blood most tissues averages about 2 g/dl, and the protein con- through the lymphatic system rather than through the centration of lymph flowing from these tissues is near this venous capillaries. The total quantity of all this lymph is value. Lymph formed in the liver has a protein concentra- normally only 2 to 3 L/day. tion as high as 6 g/dl, and lymph formed in the intestines The fluid that returns to the circulation by way of the has a protein concentration as high as 3 to 4 g/dl. Because lymphatics is extremely important because substances about two thirds of all lymph normally is derived from the of high molecular weight, such as proteins, cannot be liver and intestines, the thoracic duct lymph, which is a absorbed from the tissues in any other way, although mixture of lymph from all areas of the body, usually has a they can enter the lymphatic capillaries almost unim- protein concentration of 3 to 5 g/dl. peded. The reason for this mechanism is a special The lymphatic system is also one of the major routes structure of the lymphatic capillaries, demonstrated in for absorption of nutrients from the gastrointestinal tract, Figure 16-7 . This figure shows the endothelial cells of especially for absorption of virtually all fats in food, as the lymphatic capillary attached by anchoring filaments discussed in Chapter 66. After a fatty meal, thoracic duct to the surrounding connective tissue. At
