Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of virtually all fats in food, as the lymphatic capillary attached by anchoring filaments discussed in Chapter 66. After a fatty meal, thoracic duct to the surrounding connective tissue. At the junctions lymph sometimes contains as much as 1% to 2% fat. of adjacent endothelial cells, the edge of one endothe- Finally, even large particles, such as bacteria, can push lial cell overlaps the edge of the adjacent cell in such their way between the endothelial cells of the lymphatic a way that the overlapping edge is free to flap inward, capillaries and in this way enter the lymph. As the lymph thus forming a minute valve that opens to the interior of passes through the lymph nodes, these particles are the lymphatic capillary. Interstitial fluid, along with its almost entirely removed and destroyed, as discussed in suspended particles, can push the valve open and flow Chapter 34. directly into the lymphatic capillary. However, this fluid has difficulty leaving the capillary once it has entered RATE OF LYMPH FLOW because any backflow closes the flap valve. Thus, the lymphatics have valves at the very tips of the terminal About 100 ml/hr of lymph flows through the thoracic lymphatic capillaries, as well as valves along their larger duct of a resting human, and approximately another 20 ml vessels, up to the point where they empty into the blood flows into the circulation each hour through other chan- circulation. nels, making a total estimated lymph flow of about 120 ml/hr or 2 to 3 L/day. FORMATION OF LYMPH Effect of Interstitial Fluid Pressure on Lymph Flow. Lymph is derived from interstitial fluid that flows into the Figure 16- 8 shows the effect of different levels of intersti- lymphatics. Therefore, lymph as it first enters the termi- tial fluid hydrostatic pressure on lymph flow, as measured nal lymphatics has almost the same composition as the in animals. Note that normal lymph flow is very little at interstitial fluid. interstitial fluid pressures more negative than the normal 202 wolf hpmyl evitaleR Chapter 16 The Microcirculation and Lymphatic System: Capillary Fluid Exchange, Interstitial Fluid, and Lymph Flow Pores Valves Lymphatic capillaries Collecting lymphatic Figure 16- 9. Structure of lymphatic capillaries and a collecting lymphat- ic, with the lymphatic valves also shown. value of −6 mm Hg. Then, as the pressure rises to 0 mm duct, this lymphatic pump can generate pressure as high Hg (atmospheric
