Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with the lymphatic valves also shown. value of −6 mm Hg. Then, as the pressure rises to 0 mm duct, this lymphatic pump can generate pressure as high Hg (atmospheric pressure), flow increases more than 20- as 50 to 100 mm Hg. fold. Therefore, any factor that increases interstitial fluid pressure also increases lymph flow if the lymph vessels are Pumping Caused by External Intermittent Compres- functioning normally. Such factors include the following: sion of the Lymphatics. In addition to the pumping • Elevated capillary hydrostatic pressure caused by intrinsic intermittent contraction of the lymph • Decreased plasma colloid osmotic pressure vessel walls, any external factor that intermittently com- • Increased interstitial fluid colloid osmotic pressure presses the lymph vessel can also cause pumping. In order • Increased permeability of the capillaries of their importance, such factors are as follows: All these factors favor net fluid movement into the inter- • Contraction of surrounding skeletal muscles stitium, thus increasing interstitial fluid volume, intersti- • Movement of the parts of the body tial fluid pressure, and lymph flow all at the same time. • Pulsations of arteries adjacent to the lymphatics However, note in Figure 16-8 that when the inter- • Compression of the tissues by objects outside the body stitial fluid hydrostatic pressure becomes 1 or 2 mm Hg The lymphatic pump becomes very active during exer- greater than atmospheric pressure (>0 mm Hg), lymph cise, often increasing lymph flow 10- to 30- fold. Con- flow fails to rise any further at still higher pressures. versely, during periods of rest, lymph flow is sluggish This results from the fact that the increasing tissue pres- (almost zero). sure not only increases entry of fluid into the lymphatic capillaries, but also compresses the outside surfaces of Lymphatic Capillary Pump. The terminal lymphatic cap- the larger lymphatics, thus impeding lymph flow. At the illary is also capable of pumping lymph, in addition to the higher pressures, these two factors balance each other, pumping by the larger lymph vessels. As explained earlier so lymph flow reaches a maximum flow rate. This maxi- in the chapter, the anchoring filaments on the walls of the mum flow rate is illustrated by the upper level plateau in lymphatic capillaries tightly adhere to the surrounding Figure 16-8 . tissue cells. Therefore, each time excess fluid enters the tissue and causes the tissue to swell, the anchoring fila- Lymphatic
