Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


lymphatic capillaries tightly adhere to the surrounding Figure 16-8 . tissue cells. Therefore, each time excess fluid enters the tissue and causes the tissue to swell, the anchoring fila- Lymphatic Pump Increases Lymph Flow. Valves exist in ments pull on the wall of the lymphatic capillary, and fluid all lymph channels. Figure 16- 9 shows typical valves for flows into the terminal lymphatic capillary through the collecting lymphatics into which the lymphatic capillaries junctions between the endothelial cells. Then, when the empty. tissue is compressed, the pressure inside the capillary in- Videos of exposed lymph vessels in animals and in creases and causes the overlapping edges of the endotheli- humans have shown that when a collecting lymphatic al cells to close like valves. Therefore, the pressure pushes or larger lymph vessel becomes stretched with fluid, the the lymph forward into the collecting lymphatic instead smooth muscle in the wall of the vessel automatically of backward through the cell junctions. contracts. Furthermore, each segment of the lymph ves- The lymphatic capillary endothelial cells also contain a sel between successive valves functions as a separate few contractile actomyosin filaments. In some animal tis- automatic pump. That is, even slight filling of a segment sues (e.g., a bat wing), these filaments have been observed causes it to contract, and the fluid is pumped through the to cause rhythmical contraction of the lymphatic capillar- next valve into the next lymphatic segment. This fluid fills ies in the same rhythmic way that many of the small blood the subsequent segment and a few seconds later it also vessels and larger lymphatic vessels contract. Therefore, contracts, with the process continuing all along the lymph it is probable that at least part of lymph pumping results vessel until the fluid is finally emptied into the blood cir- from lymph capillary endothelial cell contraction in addi- culation. In a very large lymph vessel, such as the thoracic tion to contraction of the larger muscular lymphatics. 203 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Summary of Factors That Determine Lymph Flow. Significance of Negative Interstitial From the previous discussion, one can see that the two Fluid Pressure for Holding Body Tissues primary factors that determine lymph flow are (1) the in- Together terstitial fluid pressure and (2) the activity of the lymphat- Traditionally, it has been assumed that the different tis- ic pump. Therefore, one can state that, roughly, the
