Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in- Together terstitial fluid pressure and (2) the activity of the lymphat- Traditionally, it has been assumed that the different tis- ic pump. Therefore, one can state that, roughly, the rate sues of the body are held together entirely by connective of lymph flow is determined by the product of interstitial tissue fibers. However, connective tissue fibers are very fluid pressure times the activity of the lymphatic pump. weak or even absent at many places in the body, particu- Lymphatic System Plays a Key Role in larly at points where tissues slide over one another (e.g., Controlling Interstitial Fluid Protein skin sliding over the back of the hand or over the face). Yet, Concentration, Volume, and Pressure even at these places, the tissues are held together by the negative interstitial fluid pressure, which is actually a par- It is already clear that the lymphatic system functions as tial vacuum. When the tissues lose their negative pressure, an overflow mechanism to return excess proteins and fluid accumulates in the spaces, and the condition known excess fluid volume from the tissue spaces to the circu- as edema occurs. This condition is discussed in Chapter 25. lation. Therefore, the lymphatic system also plays a cen- tral role in controlling the following: (1) concentration of proteins in the interstitial fluids; (2) volume of interstitial Bibliography fluid; and (3) interstitial fluid pressure. Here is an explana- Alitalo K: The lymphatic vasculature in disease. Nat Med 17:1371, tion of how these factors interact. 2011. 1. Remember that small amounts of proteins leak con- Chidlow JH Jr, Sessa WC: Caveolae, caveolins, and cavins: complex tinuously out of the blood capillaries into the inter- control of cellular signalling and inflammation. Cardiovasc Res stitium. Only minute amounts, if any, of the leaked 86:219, 2010. Dejana E: Endothelial cell- cell junctions: happy together. Nat Rev Mol proteins return to the circulation by way of the ve- Cell Biol 5:261, 2004. nous ends of the blood capillaries. Therefore, these Gutterman DD, Chabowski DS, Kadlec AO, et. al: The human micro- proteins tend to accumulate in the interstitial fluid, circulation: regulation of flow and beyond. Circ Res 118:157, 2016. which in turn increases the colloid osmotic pressure Guyton AC: Interstitial fluid pressure: II. Pressure- volume curves of of the interstitial fluids. interstitial space. Circ Res 16:452, 1965. Guyton AC, Granger HJ, Taylor AE: Interstitial fluid pressure. Physiol 2. The increasing colloid osmotic
