Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


steady state levels until some factor port: physiological regulation and roles in inflammation and can- changes the rate of leakage of proteins and fluid from cer. Physiol Rev 92:1005, 2012. the blood capillaries. 204 CHAPTER 1 7 Local and Humoral Control of Tissue Blood Flow LOCAL CONTROL OF BLOOD FLOW IN metabolic activity of the muscles is low, as is the blood RESPONSE TO TISSUE NEEDS flow—only 4 ml/min/100 g. Yet, during heavy exercise, muscle metabolic activity can increase more than 60-f old A fundamental principle of circulatory function is that and the blood flow as much as 20-f old, increasing to as most tissues have the ability to control their own local high as 16,000 ml/min in the body’s total muscle vascular blood flow in proportion to their specific metabolic bed (or 80 ml/min/100 g of muscle). needs. Some of the specific needs of the tissues for blood flow include the following: Importance of Blood Flow Control by the Local 1. Delivery of oxygen to the tissues Tissues. The following question might be asked: Why not 2. Delivery of other nutrients such as glucose, amino continuously provide a very large blood flow through eve- acids, and fatty acids ry tissue of the body that would always be enough to sup- 3. Removal of carbon dioxide from the tissues ply the tissue’s needs, regardless of whether the activity of 4. Removal of hydrogen ions from the tissues the tissue is small or large? The answer is equally simple; 5. Maintenance of proper concentrations of ions in such a mechanism would require many times more blood the tissues flow than the heart can pump. 6. Transport of various hormones and other substanc- Experiments have shown that the blood flow to each es to the different tissue. tissue usually is regulated at the minimal level that will Certain organs have special requirements. For example, supply the tissue’s requirements—no more, no less. For blood flow to the skin determines heat loss from the body example, in tissues for which the most important require- and, in this way, helps control body temperature. Also, deliv- ment is delivery of oxygen, the blood flow is always con- ery of adequate quantities of blood plasma to the kidneys trolled at a level only slightly more than that required to allows the kidneys to filter and excrete the waste products of maintain full tissue oxygenation but no more
