Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


kidneys trolled at a level only slightly more than that required to allows the kidneys to filter and excrete the waste products of maintain full tissue oxygenation but no more than this. the body and to regulate body fluid volumes and electrolytes. By controlling local blood flow in such an exact way, We shall see that these factors exert extreme degrees the tissues almost never experience oxygen nutritional of local blood flow control and that different tissues place deficiency, and the workload on the heart is kept at a different levels of importance on these factors in control- minimum. ling blood flow. MECHANISMS OF BLOOD FLOW Variations in Blood Flow in Different Tissues and CONTROL Organs. Note the very large blood flows listed in Table 17- 1 for some organs—for example, several hundred mil- Local blood flow control can be divided into two phases, liliters per minute per 100 grams of thyroid or adrenal acute control and long- term control. Acute control is gland tissue and a total blood flow of 1350 ml/min in the achieved by rapid changes in local vasodilation or vaso- liver, which is 95 ml/min/100 g of liver tissue. constriction of the arterioles, metarterioles, and precap- Also note the extremely large blood flow through the illary sphincters that occur within seconds to minutes kidneys—1100 ml/min. This extreme amount of flow to provide rapid maintenance of appropriate local tissue is required for the kidneys to perform their function of blood flow. Long- term control means slow, controlled cleansing the blood of waste products and regulating changes in flow over a period of days, weeks, or even composition of the body fluids precisely. months. In general, these long- term changes provide even Conversely, most surprising is the low blood flow to all better control of the flow in proportion to the needs of the inactive muscles of the body—only a total of 750 ml/ the tissues. These changes come about as a result of an min—even though the muscles constitute between 30% increase or decrease in the physical sizes and numbers of and 40% of the total body mass. In the resting state, the blood vessels supplying the tissues. 205 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Table 17- 1 Blood Flow to Different Organs and Tissues 3 Under Basal Conditions Percentage ml/min/100 of Cardiac g of Tissue 2 Output ml/min Weight Brain 14 700 50 Heart 4 200
