Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


oxygen or some other nutrients to a tissue, the greater the rate of forma- ACUTE CONTROL OF LOCAL BLOOD FLOW tion of vasodilator substances in the tissue cells. The vaso- dilator substances are then believed to diffuse through the Increases in Tissue Metabolism Increase tissues to the precapillary sphincters, metarterioles, and Tissue Blood Flow arterioles to cause dilation. Some of the different vasodi- Figure 17- 1 shows the approximate acute effect on blood lator substances that have been suggested are adenosine, flow of increasing the rate of metabolism in a local tis- carbon dioxide, adenosine phosphate compounds, hista- sue, such as in a skeletal muscle. Note that an increase in mine, potassium ions, and hydrogen ions. metabolism up to eight times normal increases the blood Vasodilator substances may be released from the tis- flow acutely about fourfold. sue in response to oxygen deficiency. For example, experi- ments have shown that decreased oxygen availability can Reduced Oxygen Availability Increases Tissue Blood cause adenosine and lactic acid (containing hydrogen ions) Flow. One of the most necessary of the metabolic nu- to be released into the spaces between the tissue cells; trients is oxygen. Whenever the availability of oxygen to these substances then cause intense acute vasodilation 206 )lamron ×( wolf doolB )lamron ×( wolf doolB Chapter 17 Local and Humoral Control of Tissue Blood Flow and therefore are responsible, or partially responsible, for Metarteriole Precapillary sphincter the local blood flow regulation. Other vasodilator sub- stances, such as carbon dioxide, lactic acid, and potas- sium ions, also tend to increase in the tissues when blood flow is reduced and cell metabolism continues at the same rate, or when cell metabolism is suddenly increased. An increase in the concentration of vasodilator metabolites Tissue cells causes vasodilation of the arterioles, thus increasing the Sidearm capillary tissue blood flow and returning the tissue concentration of the metabolites toward normal. Many physiologists believe that adenosine is an impor- tant local vasodilator for controlling local blood flow. For example, minute quantities of adenosine are released from Relaxation of heart muscle cells when coronary blood flow becomes too O delivery 2 arterioles and little, and this release of adenosine causes enough local or Tissue O 2 precapillary Tissue metabolism vasodilation in the heart to return coronary blood flow to sphincters normal. Also, whenever the heart becomes more active than normal, the heart’s metabolism increases, causing Tissue increased utilization of
