Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


vasodilation in the heart to return coronary blood flow to sphincters normal. Also, whenever the heart becomes more active than normal, the heart’s metabolism increases, causing Tissue increased utilization of oxygen, followed by (1) decreased blood flow oxygen concentration in the heart muscle cells with (2) Figure 17- 3. Diagram of a tissue unit area for an explanation of consequent degradation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), acute local feedback control of blood flow, showing a metarteriole passing through the tissue and a sidearm capillary with its precapillary which (3) increases the release of adenosine. It is believed sphincter for controlling capillary blood flow. that much of this adenosine leaks out of the heart muscle cells to cause coronary vasodilation, providing increased coronary blood flow to supply the increased nutrient the metarteriole are several other smooth muscle fibers. demands of the active heart. When observing such a tissue under a microscope, the Although research evidence is less clear, many physi- precapillary sphincters are normally completely open or ologists also have suggested that the same adenosine completely closed. The number of precapillary sphincters mechanism is an important controller of blood flow in that are open at any given time is roughly proportional to skeletal muscle and many other tissues, as well as in the the requirements of the tissue for nutrition. The precap- heart. However, it has been difficult to prove that suf- illary sphincters and metarterioles open and close cycli- ficient quantities of any single vasodilator substance, cally several times per minute, with the duration of the including adenosine, are formed in the tissues to cause open phases being proportional to the metabolic needs of all the measured increase in blood flow. It is likely that a the tissues for oxygen. The cyclical opening and closing is combination of several different vasodilators released by called vasomotion. the tissues contributes to blood flow regulation. Because smooth muscle requires oxygen to remain contracted, one might assume that the strength of con- Oxygen Demand Theory for Local Blood Flow C ontrol. traction of the sphincters would increase with an increase Although the vasodilator theory is widely accepted, sever- in oxygen concentration. Consequently, when the oxygen al critical facts have made other physiologists favor anoth- concentration in the tissue rises above a certain level, er theory, which can be called the oxygen demand theory the precapillary and metarteriole sphincters presumably or, more accurately, the nutrient demand
