Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the tissue rises above a certain level, er theory, which can be called the oxygen demand theory the precapillary and metarteriole sphincters presumably or, more accurately, the nutrient demand theory (because would close until the tissue cells consume the excess oxy- other nutrients besides oxygen are involved). Oxygen is gen. However, when the excess oxygen is gone and the one of the metabolic nutrients required to cause vascu- oxygen concentration falls low enough, the sphincters lar muscle contraction, with other nutrients required as open once more to begin the cycle again. well. Therefore, in the absence of adequate oxygen, it is Thus, on the basis of available data, either the vaso- reasonable to believe that the blood vessels would relax dilator substance theory or oxygen demand theory could and therefore dilate. Also, increased utilization of oxygen explain acute local blood flow regulation in response to in the tissues as a result of increased metabolism theo- the metabolic needs of the tissues. It is probably a combi- retically could decrease the availability of oxygen to the nation of the two mechanisms. smooth muscle fibers in the local blood vessels, causing local vasodilation. Possible Role of Other Nutrients Besides Oxygen in A mechanism whereby oxygen availability could oper- Control of Local Blood Flow. Under special conditions, ate is shown in Figure 17- 3. This figure shows a tissue it has been shown that the lack of glucose in the perfusing vascular unit, consisting of a metarteriole with a single blood can cause local tissue vasodilation. It also is pos- sidearm capillary and its surrounding tissue. At the ori- sible that this same effect occurs when other nutrients, gin of the capillary is a precapillary sphincter and around such as amino acids or fatty acids, are deficient, although 207 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation 6 2.5 Acute 5 Reactive 2.0 4 hyperemia Muscle blood flow 3 (× normal) 1.5 2 Artery occlusion 1 1.0 Long term 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 0.5 0 7 0 50 100 150 200 250 Active 6 hyperemia Mean arterial pressure (mm Hg) 5 Figure 17- 5. Effect of different levels of arterial pressure on blood Muscle flow through a muscle. The solid red curve shows the effect if the 4 blood flow arterial pressure is raised over a period of a few minutes. The dashed Muscle (× normal) 3 stimulation green curve shows
