Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


curve shows the effect if the 4 blood flow arterial pressure is raised over a period of a few minutes. The dashed Muscle (× normal) 3 stimulation green curve shows the effect if the arterial pressure is raised slowly 2 over many weeks. 1 0 Reactive hyperemia is another manifestation of the 0 1 2 3 4 5 local metabolic blood flow regulation mechanism—that Time (minutes) is, lack of flow sets into motion all the factors that cause Figure 17- 4. Reactive hyperemia in a tissue after temporary occlu- vasodilation. After short periods of vascular occlusion, sion of the artery supplying blood flow and active hyperemia follow- the extra blood flow during the reactive hyperemia phase ing increased tissue metabolic activity. lasts long enough to repay almost exactly the tissue oxy- gen deficit that has accrued during the period of occlu- this is still uncertain. In addition, vasodilation occurs in sion. This mechanism emphasizes the close connection the vitamin deficiency disease beriberi, in which the pa- between local blood flow regulation and delivery of oxy- tient has deficiencies of the vitamin B substances thia- gen and other nutrients to the tissues. mine, niacin, and riboflavin. In this disease, the peripheral vascular blood flow almost everywhere in the body often Active Hyperemia Occurs When Tissue Metabolic increases twofold to threefold. Because all these vitamins Rate Increases. When a tissue becomes highly active, are necessary for oxygen-i nduced phosphorylation, which such as an exercising muscle, a gastrointestinal gland is required to produce ATP in the tissue cells, one can un- during a hypersecretory period, or even the brain during derstand how deficiency of these vitamins might lead to increased mental activity, the rate of blood flow through diminished smooth muscle contractile ability and there- the tissue increases (see Figure 17- 4). The increase in lo- fore local vasodilation as well. cal metabolism causes the cells to devour tissue fluid nu- trients rapidly and release large quantities of vasodilator Special Examples of Acute Metabolic substances. The result is dilation of local blood vessels and Control of Local Blood Flow increased local blood flow. In this way, the active tissue The mechanisms we have described thus far for local receives the additional nutrients required to sustain its blood flow control are called metabolic mechanisms new level of function. As noted earlier, active hyperemia because they all function in response to the metabolic in skeletal
