Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to sustain its blood flow control are called metabolic mechanisms new level of function. As noted earlier, active hyperemia because they all function in response to the metabolic in skeletal muscle can increase local muscle blood flow as needs of the tissues. Two additional special examples of much as 20-f old during intense exercise. metabolic control of local blood flow are reactive hyper- Autoregulation of Blood Flow During emia and active hyperemia (Figure 17- 4). Changes in Arterial Pressure—Metabolic and Myogenic Mechanisms Reactive Hyperemia Occurs After Tissue Blood Sup- ply Is Blocked for a Short Time. When the blood sup- In any tissue of the body, a rapid increase in arterial pres- ply to a tissue is blocked for a few seconds to as long as 1 sure causes an immediate rise in blood flow. However, hour or more and then is unblocked, blood flow through within less than 1 minute, the blood flow in most tissues the tissue usually increases immediately to four to sev- returns almost to the normal level, even though the arte- en times normal. This increased flow will continue for rial pressure is kept elevated. This return of flow toward a few seconds if the block has lasted only a few seconds normal is called autoregulation. After autoregulation but sometimes continues for as long as many hours if the has occurred, the local blood flow in most tissues will be blood flow has been stopped for an hour or more. This related to arterial pressure approximately in accord with phenomenon is called reactive hyperemia. the solid acute curve in Figure 17- 5. Note that between 208 )lamron ×( wolf doolB Chapter 17 Local and Humoral Control of Tissue Blood Flow arterial pressures of about 70 and 175 mm Hg, the blood Special Mechanisms for Acute Blood Flow flow increases only 20% to 30%, even though the arte- Control in Specific Tissues rial pressure increases 150%. In some tissues, such as the brain and heart, this autoregulation is even more precise. Although the general mechanisms for local blood flow For almost a century, two views have been proposed control discussed thus far are present in almost all tissues to explain this acute autoregulation mechanism. They of the body, distinctly different mechanisms operate in a have been called the metabolic theory and the myogenic few special areas. All mechanisms are discussed through- theory. out this text in
