Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the body, distinctly different mechanisms operate in a have been called the metabolic theory and the myogenic few special areas. All mechanisms are discussed through- theory. out this text in relation to specific organs, but two notable The metabolic theory can be understood easily by mechanisms are as follows: applying the basic principles of local blood flow regula- 1. In the kidneys, blood flow control is significantly tion discussed in previous sections. Thus, when the arte- vested in a mechanism called tubuloglomerular rial pressure becomes too great, the excess flow provides feedback, in which the composition of the fluid in too much oxygen and too many other nutrients to the the early distal tubule is detected by an epithelial tissues and washes out the vasodilators released by the structure of the distal tubule, called the macula den- tissues. These nutrients (especially oxygen) and decreased sa. This structure is located where the distal tubule tissue levels of vasodilators then cause the blood vessels lies adjacent to the afferent and efferent arterioles at to constrict and return flow to nearly normal, despite the the nephron juxtaglomerular apparatus. When too increased pressure. much fluid filters from the blood through the glo- The myogenic theory, however, suggests that another merulus into the tubular system, feedback signals mechanism not related to tissue metabolism explains the from the macula densa cause constriction of the af- phenomenon of autoregulation. This theory is based on ferent arterioles, thereby reducing renal blood flow the observation that a sudden stretch of small blood ves- and glomerular filtration rate back to nearly nor- sels causes the smooth muscle of the vessel wall to con- mal. The details of this mechanism are discussed in tract. Therefore, it has been proposed that when high Chapter 27. arterial pressure stretches the vessel, reactive vascular 2. I n the brain, in addition to control of blood flow constriction results, which reduces blood flow nearly back by tissue oxygen concentration, the concentra- to normal. Conversely, at low pressures, the degree of tions of carbon dioxide and hydrogen ions play stretch of the vessel is less, so the smooth muscle relaxes, prominent roles. An increase of either or both of reducing vascular resistance and helping to return flow these substances dilates the cerebral vessels and toward normal. allows rapid washout of the excess carbon diox- The myogenic response is inherent to vascular ide or hydrogen ions from
