Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


flow these substances dilates the cerebral vessels and toward normal. allows rapid washout of the excess carbon diox- The myogenic response is inherent to vascular ide or hydrogen ions from the brain tissues. This smooth muscle and can occur in the absence of neu- mechanism is important because the level of ex- ral or hormonal influences. It is most pronounced in citability of the brain is highly dependent on exact arterioles but can also be observed in arteries, venules, control of both carbon dioxide concentration and veins, and even lymphatic vessels. Myogenic contraction hydrogen ion concentration. This special mecha- is initiated by stretch- induced vascular depolarization, nism for cerebral blood flow control is presented which then rapidly increases calcium ion entry from the in Chapter 62. extracellular fluid into the cells, causing them to con- 3. I n the skin, blood flow control is closely linked to tract. Changes in vascular pressure may also open or body temperature regulation. Cutaneous and sub- close other ion channels that influence vascular contrac- cutaneous flow regulates heat loss from the body tion. The precise mechanisms whereby changes in pres- by metering the flow of heat from the core to the sure cause opening or closing of vascular ion channels surface of the body, where heat is lost to the en- are still uncertain but likely involve mechanical effects vironment. Skin blood flow is controlled largely of pressure on extracellular proteins that are tethered to by the central nervous system through the sym- cytoskeleton elements of the vascular wall or to the ion pathetic nerves, as discussed in Chapter 74. Al- channels themselves. though skin blood flow is only about 3 ml/min/100 The myogenic mechanism appears to be important g of tissue in cool weather, large changes from in preventing excessive stretching of blood vessels when that value can occur as needed. When humans are blood pressure is increased. However, the role of the exposed to body heating, skin blood flow may in- myogenic mechanism in blood flow regulation is unclear crease greatly, to as high as 7 to 8 L/min for the because this pressure- sensing mechanism cannot detect entire body. When body temperature is reduced, changes in blood flow in the tissue directly. Metabolic skin blood flow decreases, falling to barely above factors appear to override the myogenic mechanism in zero at very low temperatures. Even with severe circumstances in which the
