Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


directly. Metabolic skin blood flow decreases, falling to barely above factors appear to override the myogenic mechanism in zero at very low temperatures. Even with severe circumstances in which the metabolic demands of the tis- vasoconstriction, skin blood flow is usually great sues are significantly increased, such as during vigorous enough to meet the basic metabolic demands of muscle exercise, which causes dramatic increases in skel- the skin. etal muscle blood flow. 209 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation larger vessels as a result of increased flow and shear Blood stress in these vessels. The released NO increases the Receptor-dependent Shear stress activation diameters of the larger upstream blood vessels whenever microvascular blood flow increases downstream. With- eNOS out such a response, the effectiveness of local blood flow O + L-Arginine NO + L-Citrulline control would be decreased because a significant part 2 of the resistance to blood flow is in the upstream small Endothelial cells arteries. Soluble guanylate cyclase NO synthesis and release from endothelial cells are also stimulated by some vasoconstrictors, such as angio- cGTP cGMP tensin II, which bind to specific receptors on endothelial Relaxation cells. The increased NO release protects against excessive Vascular smooth muscle vasoconstriction. Figure 17- 6. Nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) enzyme in endothelial cells When endothelial cells are damaged by chronic hyper- synthesizes nitric oxide (NO) from arginine and oxygen. NO activates tension or atherosclerosis, impaired NO synthesis may soluble guanylate cyclases in vascular smooth muscle cells, resulting contribute to excessive vasoconstriction and worsening in conversion of cyclic guanosine triphosphate (cGTP) to cyclic guano- sine monophosphate (cGMP), which ultimately causes the blood ves- of the hypertension and endothelial damage. If untreated, sels to relax. this may eventually cause vascular injury and damage to vulnerable tissues such as the heart, kidneys, and brain. Even before NO was discovered, clinicians used nitro- Control of Tissue Blood Flow: glycerin, amyl nitrate, and other nitrate derivatives to treat Endothelium-D erived Relaxing or patients who had angina pectoris—that is, severe chest Constricting Factors pain caused by ischemia of the heart muscle. These drugs, The endothelial cells lining the blood vessels synthesize when broken down chemically, release NO and cause several substances that when released, can affect the dilation of blood vessels throughout the body, including degree of relaxation or contraction of the vascular wall. the coronary blood vessels. For many of these endothelium-d erived relaxing or con- Other
