Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of blood vessels throughout the body, including degree of relaxation or contraction of the vascular wall. the coronary blood vessels. For many of these endothelium-d erived relaxing or con- Other important applications of NO physiology and strictor factors, the physiological roles are just beginning pharmacology are the development and clinical use of to be understood. drugs (e.g., sildenafil) that inhibit cGMP- specific phospho- diesterase- 5 (PDE-5 ), an enzyme that degrades cGMP. By Nitric Oxide Is a Vasodilator Released from Healthy preventing the degradation of cGMP, the PDE-5 inhibitors Endothelial Cells. The most important of the endothelium- effectively prolong the actions of NO to cause vasodilation. derived relaxing factors is nitric oxide (NO), a lipophilic The primary clinical use of the PDE-5 inhibitors is to treat gas that is released from endothelial cells in response to erectile dysfunction. Penile erection is caused by parasym- a variety of chemical and physical stimuli. Endothelial- pathetic nerve impulses through the pelvic nerves to the derived nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) enzymes synthesize penis, where the neurotransmitters acetylcholine and NO NO from arginine and oxygen and by reduction of inor- are released. By preventing the degradation of NO, the ganic nitrate. After diffusing out of the endothelial cell, PDE-5 inhibitors enhance the dilation of the blood vessels NO has a half-l ife in the blood of only about 6 seconds and in the penis and aid in erection, as discussed in Chapter 81. acts mainly in the local tissues, where it is released. NO activates soluble guanylate cyclases in vascular smooth Endothelin Is a Powerful Vasoconstrictor Released muscle cells (Figure 17- 6), resulting in the conversion of From Damaged Endothelium. Endothelial cells also re- cyclic guanosine triphosphate (cGTP) to cyclic guano- lease vasoconstrictor substances. The most important of sine monophosphate (cGMP) and activation of cGMP- these is endothelin, a large, 27–amino acid peptide that dependent protein kinase (PKG), which has several actions requires only minute amounts (nanograms) to cause that cause the blood vessels to relax. powerful vasoconstriction. This substance is present The flow of blood through the arteries and arterioles in the endothelial cells of all or most blood vessels but causes shear stress on the endothelial cells because of vis- greatly increases when the vessels are injured. The usual cous drag of the blood against the vascular walls. This stimulus for release is damage to the endothelium, such as stress contorts the endothelial
