Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the vessels are injured. The usual cous drag of the blood against the vascular walls. This stimulus for release is damage to the endothelium, such as stress contorts the endothelial cells in the direction of that caused by crushing the tissues or injecting a trauma- flow and causes significant increase in NO release. The tizing chemical into the blood vessel. After severe blood NO then relaxes the blood vessels, fortunately, because vessel damage, local release of endothelin and subsequent the local metabolic mechanisms for controlling tis- vasoconstriction helps prevent extensive bleeding from sue blood flow mainly dilate the very small arteries and arteries as large as 5 millimeters in diameter that might arterioles in each tissue. Yet, when blood flow through a have been torn open by crushing injury. microvascular portion of the circulation increases, this Increased endothelin release is also believed to con- action secondarily stimulates the release of NO from tribute to vasoconstriction when the endothelium is 210 Chapter 17 Local and Humoral Control of Tissue Blood Flow damaged by hypertension. Drugs that block endothelin receptors have been used to treat pulmonary hyperten- sion but generally have not been used for lowering blood pressure in patients with systemic arterial hypertension. LONG- TERM BLOOD FLOW REGULATION Thus far, most of the mechanisms for local blood flow regulation that we have discussed act within a few sec- onds to a few minutes after the local tissue conditions have changed. Yet, even after full activation of these acute mechanisms, the blood flow usually is adjusted only about three quarters of the way to the exact additional requirements of the tissues. For example, when the arte- rial pressure suddenly increases from 100 to 150 mm A 50 µm Hg, the blood flow increases almost instantaneously, by about 100%. Then, within 30 seconds to 2 minutes, the flow decreases back to about 10% to 15% above the origi- nal control value. This example illustrates the rapidity of the acute mechanisms for local blood flow regulation, but also demonstrates that the regulation is still incomplete because a 10% to 15% excess blood flow remains in some tissues. However, over a period of hours, days, and weeks, a long- term type of local blood flow regulation develops in addition to the acute control. This long- term regula- tion gives far more complete control of blood flow. In the aforementioned example, if the arterial pressure remains
