Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


regulation develops in addition to the acute control. This long- term regula- tion gives far more complete control of blood flow. In the aforementioned example, if the arterial pressure remains at 150 mm Hg indefinitely, the blood flow through the tissues gradually approaches almost exactly the normal flow level within a few weeks. Figure 17- 5 shows (dashed B green curve) the extreme effectiveness of this long- term Figure 17- 7. A large increase in the number of capillaries (white local blood flow regulation. Note that once the long- term dots) in a rat anterior tibialis muscle that was stimulated electrically to regulation has had time to occur, long- term changes in contract for short periods each day for 30 days (B), compared with arterial pressure between 50 and 200 mm Hg have little the unstimulated muscle (A). The 30 days of intermittent electrical effect on the rate of local blood flow. stimulation converted the predominantly fast-t witch, glycolytic ante- Long- term regulation of blood flow is especially impor- rior tibialis muscle to a predominantly slow- twitch, oxidative muscle with increased numbers of capillaries and decreased fiber diameter, tant when the metabolic demands of a tissue change. Thus, as shown. (Courtesy Dr. Thomas Adair.) if a tissue becomes chronically overactive and requires increased quantities of oxygen and other nutrients, the arterioles and capillary vessels usually increase both in Thus, actual physical reconstruction of the tissue vas- number and size within a few weeks to match the needs culature occurs to meet the needs of the tissues. This of the tissue, unless the circulatory system has become reconstruction occurs rapidly (within days) in young ani- pathological or too old to respond. mals. It also occurs rapidly in new growth tissue, such as in cancerous tissue, but occurs much more slowly in old, Blood Flow Regulation by Changes in well- established tissues. Therefore, the time required for Tissue Vascularity long- term regulation to take place may be only a few days A key mechanism for long- term local blood flow regula- in the neonate or as long as months in older adults. Fur- tion is to change the amount of vascularity of the tissues. thermore, the final degree of response is much better in For example, if the metabolism in a tissue is increased younger than in older tissues; thus, in the neonate, the for a prolonged period, vascularity increases, a pro-
