Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


better in For example, if the metabolism in a tissue is increased younger than in older tissues; thus, in the neonate, the for a prolonged period, vascularity increases, a pro- vascularity will adjust to match almost exactly the needs cess generally called angiogenesis; if the metabolism is of the tissue for blood flow, whereas in older tissues, vas- decreased, vascularity decreases. Figure 17- 7 shows the cularity frequently lags far behind the needs of the tissues. large increase in the number of capillaries in a rat anterior tibialis muscle that was stimulated electrically to contract Role of Oxygen in Long- Term Regulation. Oxygen is for short periods each day for 30 days, compared with the important not only for acute control of local blood flow unstimulated muscle in the other leg of the animal. but also for long- term control. One example of this is 211 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation increased vascularity in tissues of animals that live at vessel growth in cancerous tumors and therefore prevent- high altitudes, where the atmospheric oxygen is low. In ing the large increases in blood flow needed to sustain the premature babies who are put into oxygen tents for ther- nutrient supply of rapidly growing tumors. apeutic purposes, the excess oxygen causes almost im- mediate cessation of new vascular growth in the retina of Vascularity Determined by Maximum Blood Flow the premature baby’s eyes and even causes degeneration Need, Not by Average Need. An especially valuable of some of the small vessels that already have formed. characteristic of long- term vascular control is that vas- When the infant is taken out of the oxygen tent, explo- cularity is determined mainly by the maximum level of sive overgrowth of new vessels then occurs to make up blood flow required by the tissue rather than by aver- for the sudden decrease in available oxygen. Often, so age need. For example, during heavy exercise, the need much overgrowth occurs that the retinal vessels grow for whole- body blood flow often increases to six to eight out from the retina into the eye’s vitreous humor, even- times the resting blood flow. This great excess of flow tually causing blindness, a condition called retrolental may not be required for more than a few minutes each fibroplasia. day. Nevertheless, even this short time of need can cause enough angiogenic factors to be formed by the muscles Importance
