Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be required for more than a few minutes each fibroplasia. day. Nevertheless, even this short time of need can cause enough angiogenic factors to be formed by the muscles Importance of Vascular Growth Factors in Formation to increase their vascularity as required. Were it not for of New Blood Vessels. A dozen or more factors that this capability, every time a person attempted heavy exer- increase growth of new blood vessels have been found, cise, the muscles would fail to receive the required nutri- almost all of which are small peptides. The four factors ents, especially the required oxygen, and thus the muscles that have been best characterized are vascular endothelial would fail to contract. growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factor, platelet- However, after extra vascularity does develop, the extra derived growth factor (PDGF), and angiogenin, each of blood vessels normally remain mainly vasoconstricted, which has been isolated from tissues that have inadequate opening to allow extra flow only when appropriate local blood supply. Deficiency of tissue oxygen induces expres- stimuli such as a lack of oxygen, nerve vasodilatory stim- sion of hypoxia inducible factors (HIFs), transcription uli, or other stimuli call forth the required extra flow. factors that in turn upregulate gene expression and the Blood Flow Regulation by Development formation of vascular growth factors (also called angio- of Collateral Circulation genic factors). Angiogenesis begins with new vessels sprouting from In most tissues of the body, when an artery or a vein is other small vessels. The first step is dissolution of the base- blocked, a new vascular channel usually develops around ment membrane of the endothelial cells at the point of the blockage and allows at least partial resupply of blood sprouting. This step is followed by rapid reproduction of to the affected tissue. The first stage in this process is dila- new endothelial cells, which stream outward through the tion of small vascular loops that already connect the ves- vessel wall in extended cords directed toward the source sel above the blockage to the vessel below. This dilation of the angiogenic factor. The cells in each cord continue occurs within the first minute or two, indicating that the to divide and rapidly fold over into a tube. Next, the tube dilation is likely mediated by metabolic factors. After this connects with another tube budding from another donor initial opening of collateral vessels, the blood flow often is
