Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Next, the tube dilation is likely mediated by metabolic factors. After this connects with another tube budding from another donor initial opening of collateral vessels, the blood flow often is vessel (another arteriole or venule) and forms a capillary still less than 25% of that required to supply all the tissue loop through which blood begins to flow. If the flow is needs. However, further opening occurs within the ensu- great enough, smooth muscle cells eventually invade the ing hours, so that within 1 day as much as half the tissue wall, so some of the new vessels eventually grow to be new needs may be met and, within a few days, the blood flow arterioles or venules or perhaps even larger vessels. Thus, is usually sufficient to meet the tissue needs. angiogenesis explains how metabolic factors in local tis- The collateral vessels continue to grow for many sues can cause growth of new vessels. months thereafter, usually forming multiple small col- Certain other substances, such as some steroid hor- lateral channels rather than one single large vessel. mones, have the opposite effect on small blood vessels, Under resting conditions, the blood flow may return to occasionally even causing dissolution of vascular cells and nearly normal, but the new channels seldom become disappearance of vessels. Therefore, blood vessels can also large enough to supply the blood flow needed during be made to disappear when they are not needed. Peptides strenuous tissue activity. Thus, development of collateral produced in the tissues can also block the growth of new vessels follows the usual principles of acute and long- blood vessels. For example, angiostatin, a fragment of term local blood flow control; the acute control is rapid the protein plasminogen, is a naturally occurring inhibi- metabolic dilation, followed chronically by growth and tor of angiogenesis. Endostatin is another antiangiogenic enlargement of new vessels over a period of weeks and peptide derived from the breakdown of collagen type months. XVII. Although the precise physiological functions of An important example of the development of collat- these antiangiogenic substances are still unknown, there eral blood vessels occurs after thrombosis of one of the is great interest in their potential use in arresting blood coronary arteries. By the age of 60 years, many people 212 Chapter 17 Local and Humoral Control of Tissue Blood Flow have experienced closure or at least partial occlusion of at least one
