Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the age of 60 years, many people 212 Chapter 17 Local and Humoral Control of Tissue Blood Flow have experienced closure or at least partial occlusion of at least one of the smaller branch coronary vessels, but they Inward eutrophic are not aware of it because collateral blood vessels have remodeling developed rapidly enough to prevent myocardial dam- age. When collateral blood vessels are unable to develop quickly enough to maintain blood flow because of the rapidity or severity of the coronary insufficiency, serious Hypertrophic heart attacks can occur. remodeling Vascular Remodeling in Response to Chronic Changes in Blood Flow or Blood Pressure Vascular growth and remodeling are critical compo- Outward nents of tissue development and growth and occur as an remodeling adaptive response to long- term changes in blood pres- sure or blood flow. For example, after several months of chronic exercise training, vascularity of the trained muscles increases to accommodate their higher blood flow requirements. In addition to changes in capillary density, there may also be changes in the structure of Outward large blood vessels in response to long- term changes hypertrophic in blood pressure and blood flow. When blood pres- remodeling sure is chronically elevated above normal, for example, the large and small arteries and arterioles remodel to accommodate the increased mechanical wall stress of Figure 17- 8. Vascular remodeling in response to a chronic increase the higher blood pressure. In most tissues, the small in blood pressure or blood flow. In small arteries and arterioles that arteries and arterioles rapidly respond (within sec- constrict in response to increased blood pressure, inward eutrophic onds) to increased arterial pressure with vasoconstric- remodeling typically occurs because the lumen diameter is smaller and the vascular wall is thicker, but the total cross- sectional area of tion, which helps autoregulate tissue blood flow, as the vessel wall is hardly changed. In large blood vessels that do not discussed previously. The vasoconstriction decreases constrict in response to increased blood pressure, there may be hy- lumen diameter, which in turn tends to normalize the pertrophic remodeling, with increases in thickness and total cross- vascular wall tension (T), which, according to Laplace’s sectional area of the vascular wall. If blood vessels are exposed to equation, is the product of the radius (r) of the blood chronic increases in blood flow, there is typically outward remodeling, with increases in lumen diameter, little change in wall
