Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


equation, is the product of the radius (r) of the blood chronic increases in blood flow, there is typically outward remodeling, with increases in lumen diameter, little change in wall thickness, and vessel and its pressure (P): T = r × P increased total cross- sectional area of the vascular wall. If the blood In small blood vessels that constrict in response to vessel is exposed to long- term increases in blood pressure and blood increased blood pressure, the vascular smooth muscle flow, there is usually outward hypertrophic remodeling, with increas- cells and endothelial cells gradually—over a period of es in lumen diameter, wall thickness, and total cross-s ectional area several days or weeks—rearrange themselves around of the vascular wall. Chronic reductions in blood pressure and blood flow have the opposite effects, as previously described. the smaller lumen diameter, a process called inward eutrophic remodeling, with no change in the total cross- sectional area of the vascular wall (Figure 17-8 ). pressures than arteries and have much thinner walls, but In larger arteries that do not constrict in response to when a vein is sewn onto the aorta and connected to a the increased pressure, the vessel wall is exposed to coronary artery, it is exposed to increases in intralumi- increased wall tension that stimulates a hypertrophic nal pressure and wall tension. The increased wall tension remodeling response and an increase in the cross- initiates hypertrophy of vascular smooth muscle cells and sectional area of the vascular wall. The hypertrophic increased extracellular matrix formation, which thicken response increases the size of vascular smooth muscle and strengthen the wall of the vein; as a result, several cells and stimulates formation of additional extracel- months after implantation into the arterial system, the lular matrix proteins, such as collagen and fibronec- vein will typically have a wall thickness similar to that of tin, that reinforce the strength of the vascular wall to an artery. withstand the higher blood pressures. However, this Vascular remodeling also occurs when a blood vessel is hypertrophic response also makes the large blood ves- exposed chronically to increased or decreased blood flow. sels stiffer, which is a hallmark of chronic hypertension. The creation of a fistula connecting a large artery and large Another example of vascular remodeling is the change vein, thereby completely bypassing high-resistance small that occurs when a large vein (often the saphenous vein) vessels and capillaries,
