Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


artery and large Another example of vascular remodeling is the change vein, thereby completely bypassing high-resistance small that occurs when a large vein (often the saphenous vein) vessels and capillaries, provides an especially interesting is implanted in a patient for a coronary artery bypass graft example of remodeling in the affected artery and vein. procedure. Veins are normally exposed to much lower In patients with renal failure who undergo dialysis, an 213 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation arteriovenous (A- V) fistula directly from the radial artery secrete norepinephrine and epinephrine into the blood. to the antecubital vein of the forearm is created to per- These hormones then circulate to all areas of the body and mit vascular access for dialysis. The blood flow rate in the cause almost the same effects on the circulation as direct radial artery may increase as much as 10 to 50 times the sympathetic stimulation, thus providing a dual system normal flow rate, depending on the patency of the fistula. of control: (1) direct nerve stimulation; and (2) indirect As a result of the high flow rate and high shear stress on effects of norepinephrine and/or epinephrine in the cir- the vessel wall, the luminal diameter of the radial artery culating blood. increases progressively (outward remodeling), whereas the thickness of the vessel wall may remain unchanged, Angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is another powerful vaso- resulting in an increase in cross- sectional area of the vas- constrictor substance. As little as one millionth of a gram cular wall. In contrast, wall thickness, lumen diameter, can increase the arterial pressure of a person by 50 mm and cross- sectional area of the vascular wall on the venous Hg or more. side of the fistula increase in response to increases in pres- The effect of angiotensin II is to constrict the small sure and blood flow (outward hypertrophic remodeling). arterioles powerfully. If this constriction occurs in an iso- This pattern of remodeling is consistent with the idea that lated tissue area, the blood flow to that area can be severely long- term increases in vascular wall tension cause hyper- depressed. However, the real importance of angiotensin II trophy and increased wall thickness in large blood vessels, is that it normally acts on many arterioles of the body at whereas increased blood flow rate and shear stress cause the same time to increase the total peripheral resistance outward
