Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that it normally acts on many arterioles of the body at whereas increased blood flow rate and shear stress cause the same time to increase the total peripheral resistance outward remodeling and increased luminal diameter to and decrease sodium and water excretion by the kidneys, accommodate the increased blood flow. thereby increasing the arterial pressure. Thus, this hor- Chronic reductions in blood pressure and blood flow mone plays an integral role in the regulation of arterial have effects opposite to those previously described. When pressure, as is discussed in detail in Chapter 19. blood flow is greatly reduced, the diameter of the vascular lumen is also reduced and, when blood pressure is reduced, Vasopressin. Vasopressin, also called antidiuretic hor- the thickness of the vascular wall usually decreases. Thus, mone, is even more powerful than angiotensin II as a vaso- vascular remodeling is an important adaptive response of constrictor, thus making it one of the body’s most potent the blood vessels to tissue growth and development, as vascular constrictor substances. It is formed in nerve cells well as to physiological and pathological changes in blood in the hypothalamus of the brain (see Chapters 29 and 76) pressure and blood flow to the tissues. but is then transported downward by nerve axons to the posterior pituitary gland, where it is finally secreted into HUMORAL CONTROL OF THE the blood. CIRCULATION It is clear that vasopressin could have enormous effects on circulatory function. Yet, because only minute amounts Humoral control of the circulation means control by sub- of vasopressin are secreted in most physiological condi- stances secreted or absorbed into the body fluids, such tions, most physiologists have thought that vasopressin as hormones and locally produced factors. Some of these plays little role in vascular control. However, experiments substances are formed by special glands and transported have shown that the concentration of circulating blood in the blood throughout the entire body. Others are vasopressin after severe hemorrhage can increase enough formed in local tissue areas and cause only local circula- to attenuate reductions in arterial pressure markedly. In tory effects. Among the most important of the humoral some cases, this action can, by itself, bring the arterial factors that affect circulatory function are those described pressure almost back up to normal. in the following sections. Vasopressin has the major function of greatly increas- ing water reabsorption from the renal tubules back into VASOCONSTRICTORS
