Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


those described pressure almost back up to normal. in the following sections. Vasopressin has the major function of greatly increas- ing water reabsorption from the renal tubules back into VASOCONSTRICTORS the blood (discussed in Chapter 29) and therefore helps control body fluid volume. That is why this hormone is Norepinephrine and Epinephrine. Norepinephrine is an also called antidiuretic hormone. especially powerful vasoconstrictor hormone; epinephrine is less powerful as a vasoconstrictor and, in some tissues, VASODILATORS even causes mild vasodilation. (A special example of vaso- dilation caused by epinephrine is that which occurs to di- Bradykinin. Several substances called kinins cause pow- late the coronary arteries during increased heart activity.) erful vasodilation when formed in the blood and tissue When the sympathetic nervous system is stimulated in fluids of some organs. The kinins are small polypep- most parts of the body during stress or exercise, the sym- tides that are split away by proteolytic enzymes from pathetic nerve endings in the individual tissues release α - globulins in the plasma or tissue fluids. A proteolytic 2 norepinephrine, which excites the heart and constricts enzyme of particular importance for this purpose is kal- the veins and arterioles. In addition, the sympathetic likrein, which is present in the blood and tissue fluids in nerves to the adrenal medullae cause these glands to an inactive form. This inactive kallikrein is activated by 214 Chapter 17 Local and Humoral Control of Tissue Blood Flow maceration of the blood, tissue inflammation, or other 4. An increase in hydrogen ion concentration (de- similar chemical or physical effects on the blood or tis- crease in pH) causes dilation of the arterioles. Con- sues. As kallikrein becomes activated, it acts immediately versely, a slight decrease in hydrogen ion concentra- on α - globulin to release a kinin called kallidin, which is tion causes arteriolar constriction. 2 then converted by tissue enzymes into bradykinin. Once 5. Anions that have significant effects on blood vessels formed, bradykinin persists for only a few minutes be- are acetate and citrate, both of which cause mild de- cause it is inactivated by the enzyme carboxypeptidase grees of vasodilation. or by converting enzyme, the same enzyme that also plays 6. An increase in carbon dioxide concentration causes an essential role in activating angiotensin, as discussed in moderate vasodilation in most tissues but marked Chapter 19. The activated kallikrein enzyme is destroyed vasodilation in the brain.
