Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


concentration causes an essential role in activating angiotensin, as discussed in moderate vasodilation in most tissues but marked Chapter 19. The activated kallikrein enzyme is destroyed vasodilation in the brain. Also, carbon dioxide in by a kallikrein inhibitor that is also present in body fluids. the blood, acting on the brain vasomotor center, has Bradykinin causes both powerful arteriolar dilation an extremely powerful indirect effect, transmitted and increased capillary permeability. For example, injec- through the sympathetic nervous vasoconstrictor tion of 1 microgram of bradykinin into the brachial artery system, that causes widespread vasoconstriction of a person increases blood flow through the arm as much throughout the body. as sixfold, and even smaller amounts injected locally into tissues can cause marked local edema resulting from an Most Vasodilators or Vasoconstrictors Have Little increase in capillary pore size. Effect on Long-T erm Blood Flow Unless They Alter Kinins appear to play special roles in regulating blood the Metabolic Rate of the Tissues. In most experimen- flow and capillary leakage of fluids in inflamed tissues. It tal studies, tissue blood flow and cardiac output (the sum is also believed that bradykinin plays a normal role to help of flow to all the body’s tissues) are not substantially al- regulate blood flow in the skin, as well as in the salivary tered, except for 1 or 2 days, when large amounts of pow- and gastrointestinal glands. erful vasoconstrictors such as angiotensin II or vasodila- tors such as bradykinin are chronically infused. Why is Histamine. Histamine is released in almost every tissue blood flow not significantly altered in most tissues, even of the body if the tissue becomes damaged or inflamed in the presence of very large amounts of these vasoactive or is the subject of an allergic reaction. Most of the his- agents? tamine is derived from mast cells in the damaged tissues To answer this question, we must return to one of the and from basophils in the blood. fundamental principles of circulatory function that was Histamine has a powerful vasodilator effect on the previously discussed—the ability of each tissue to auto- arterioles and, like bradykinin, has the ability to increase regulate its own blood flow according to the metabolic capillary porosity greatly, allowing leakage of fluid and needs and other functions of the tissue. Administration plasma protein into the tissues. In many pathological of a powerful vasoconstrictor, such as angiotensin II, conditions,
