Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


allowing leakage of fluid and needs and other functions of the tissue. Administration plasma protein into the tissues. In many pathological of a powerful vasoconstrictor, such as angiotensin II, conditions, the intense arteriolar dilation and increased may cause transient decreases in tissue blood flow and capillary porosity produced by histamine cause large cardiac output but usually has little long- term effect if quantities of fluid to leak out of the circulation into the tis- it does not alter metabolic rate of the tissues. Likewise, sues, inducing edema. The local vasodilatory and edema- most vasodilators cause only short- term changes in tis- producing effects of histamine are especially prominent sue blood flow and cardiac output if they do not alter during allergic reactions and are discussed in Chapter 35. tissue metabolism. Therefore, blood flow is generally regulated according to the specific needs of the tissues, VASCULAR CONTROL BY IONS AND as long as the arterial pressure is adequate to perfuse the OTHER CHEMICAL FACTORS tissues. Many different ions and other chemical factors can dilate Bibliography or constrict local blood vessels. The following list details some of their specific effects: Adair TH: Growth regulation of the vascular system: an emerging role 1. An increase in intracellular calcium ion concentra- for adenosine. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 289:R283, 2005. tion causes vasoconstriction because of the general Apte RS, Chen DS, Ferrara N: VEGF in Signaling and Disease: Beyond effect of calcium to stimulate smooth muscle con- Discovery and Development. Cell 176:1248, 2019. traction, as discussed in Chapter 8. Bolduc V, Thorin- Trescases N, Thorin E: Endothelium-d ependent con- 2. An increase in potassium ion concentration, within trol of cerebrovascular functions through age: exercise for healthy the physiological range, causes vasodilation. This cerebrovascular aging. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 305:H620, 2013. effect results from the ability of potassium ions to Briet M, Schiffrin EL: Treatment of arterial remodeling in essential inhibit smooth muscle contraction. hypertension. Curr Hypertens Rep 15:3, 2013. 3. An increase in magnesium ion concentration causes Casey DP, Joyner MJ: Compensatory vasodilatation during hypoxic powerful vasodilation because magnesium ions in- exercise: mechanisms responsible for matching oxygen supply to hibit smooth muscle contraction. demand. J Physiol 590:6321, 2012. 215 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Drummond HA, Grifoni SC, Jernigan NL: A new trick for an old Marshall JM, Ray CJ: Contribution of non- endothelium- dependent dogma: ENaC proteins as
