Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Physiology ies in angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies in cancer. J Clin (Bethesda) 28:262, 2013. Invest 123:3190, 2013. 216 CHAPTER 1 8 Nervous Regulation of the Circulation and Rapid Control of Arterial Pressure Sympathetic Innervation of the Blood Vessels. NERVOUS REGULATION OF THE CIRCULATION Figure 18- 2 shows the distribution of sympathetic nerve fibers to the blood vessels, demonstrating that in most tis- As discussed in Chapter 17, adjustment of blood flow in sues, all the vessels except the capillaries are innervated. the tissues and organs of the body is mainly the function Precapillary sphincters and metarterioles are innervated of local tissue control mechanisms. In this chapter, we in some tissues, such as the mesenteric blood vessels, discuss how nervous control of the circulation has more although their sympathetic innervation is usually not as global functions, such as redistributing blood flow to dif- dense as in the small arteries, arterioles, and veins. ferent areas of the body, increasing or decreasing pump- The innervation of the small arteries and arterioles ing activity by the heart, and providing rapid control of allows sympathetic stimulation to increase resistance to systemic arterial pressure. blood flow and thereby decrease the rate of blood flow The nervous system controls the circulation almost through the tissues. entirely through the autonomic nervous system. The total The innervation of the large vessels, particularly of function of this system is presented in Chapter 61, and the veins, makes it possible for sympathetic stimulation this subject was also introduced in Chapter 17. In this to decrease the volume of these vessels. This decrease in chapter, we consider additional specific anatomical and volume can push blood into the heart and thereby plays a functional characteristics. major role in regulation of heart pumping, as we explain later in this and subsequent chapters. AUTONOMIC NERVOUS SYSTEM Sympathetic Stimulation Increases Heart Rate and The most important part of the autonomic nervous sys- Contractility. Sympathetic fibers also go directly to the tem for regulating the circulation is the sympathetic heart, as shown in Figure 18- 1. As discussed in Chapter nervous system. The parasympathetic nervous system, 9, sympathetic stimulation markedly increases the activity however, contributes importantly to regulation of heart of the heart, both increasing the heart rate and enhancing function, as described later in the chapter. its strength and volume of pumping. Sympathetic Nervous System. Figure 18- 1 shows the
