Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the heart, both increasing the heart rate and enhancing function, as described later in the chapter. its strength and volume of pumping. Sympathetic Nervous System. Figure 18- 1 shows the Parasympathetic Stimulation Decreases Heart Rate anatomy of sympathetic nervous control of the circulation. and Contractility. Although the parasympathetic nerv- Sympathetic vasomotor nerve fibers leave the spinal cord ous system is exceedingly important for many other au- through all the thoracic spinal nerves and through the first tonomic functions of the body, such as control of mul- one or two lumbar spinal nerves. They then pass immedi- tiple gastrointestinal actions, it plays only a minor role ately into a sympathetic chain, one of which lies on each in regulating vascular function in most tissues. Its most side of the vertebral column. Next, they pass by two routes important circulatory effect is to control heart rate by way to the circulation: (1) through specific sympathetic nerves of parasympathetic nerve fibers to the heart in the vagus that innervate mainly the vasculature of the internal vis- nerves, shown in Figure 18- 1 by the dashed red line from cera and the heart, as shown on the right side of Figure the brain medulla directly to the heart. 18- 1; and (2) almost immediately into peripheral portions The effects of parasympathetic stimulation on heart of the spinal nerves distributed to the vasculature of the function were discussed in detail in Chapter 9. Prin- peripheral areas. The precise pathways of these fibers in cipally, parasympathetic stimulation causes a marked the spinal cord and in the sympathetic chains are discussed decrease in heart rate and a slight decrease in heart mus- in Chapter 61. cle contractility. 217 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Arteries Arterioles Sympathetic Vasoconstrictor vasoconstriction Cardioinhibitor Capillaries Vasodilator Veins Venules Figure 18- 2. Sympathetic innervation of the systemic circulation. Vasomotor center Motor Reticular Cingulate gyrus substance Mesencephalon Blood Orbital vessels Sympathetic chain Vagus Heart Temporal Pons Medulla VASOMOTOR CENTER VASODILATOR VASOCONSTRICTOR Blood Figure 18- 3. Areas of the brain that play important roles in the nerv- vessels ous regulation of the circulation. The dashed lines represent inhibi- tory pathways. but is much less potent in skeletal muscle, heart, and the brain. Vasomotor Center in the Brain and Its Control of the Vasoconstrictor System. Located bilaterally mainly in the reticular substance of the medulla and lower third of Figure 18- 1. Anatomy of sympathetic
