Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the Brain and Its Control of the Vasoconstrictor System. Located bilaterally mainly in the reticular substance of the medulla and lower third of Figure 18- 1. Anatomy of sympathetic nervous control of the circula- the pons is an area called the vasomotor center, shown in tion. Also, shown by the dashed red line, is a vagus nerve that carries Figure 18- 1 and Figure 18- 3. This center transmits par- parasympathetic signals to the heart. asympathetic impulses through the vagus nerves to the heart and sympathetic impulses through the spinal cord Sympathetic Vasoconstrictor System and and peripheral sympathetic nerves to virtually all arteries, Its Control by the Central Nervous System arterioles, and veins of the body. The sympathetic nerves carry large numbers of vasocon- Although the total organization of the vasomotor cen- strictor nerve fibers and only a few vasodilator fibers. The ter is still unclear, experiments have made it possible to vasoconstrictor fibers are distributed to essentially all seg- identify certain important areas in this center: ments of the circulation, but more to some tissues than 1. A vasoconstrictor area located bilaterally in the an- to others. This sympathetic vasoconstrictor effect is espe- terolateral portions of the upper medulla. The neu- cially powerful in the kidneys, intestines, spleen, and skin rons originating in this area distribute their fibers 218 Chapter 18 Nervous Regulation of the Circulation and Rapid Control of Arterial Pressure tone throughout the body. A few minutes later, a small 150 amount of the hormone norepinephrine was injected into Total spinal the blood (norepinephrine is the principal vasoconstrictor 125 anesthesia hormonal substance secreted at the endings of the sympa- thetic vasoconstrictor nerve fibers). As this injected hor- 100 mone was transported in the blood to blood vessels, the 75 vessels once again became constricted, and the arterial pressure rose to a level even greater than normal for 1 to 3 50 minutes until the norepinephrine was destroyed. 25 Injection of norepinephrine Control of Heart Activity by the Vasomotor Center. 0 At the same time that the vasomotor center regulates the 0 5 10 15 20 25 amount of vascular constriction, it also controls heart ac- Minutes tivity. The lateral portions of the vasomotor center trans- Figure 18-4 . Effect of total spinal anesthesia on the arterial pres- mit excitatory impulses through the sympathetic nerve sure, showing a marked decrease in pressure resulting from loss of fibers
