Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


18-4 . Effect of total spinal anesthesia on the arterial pres- mit excitatory impulses through the sympathetic nerve sure, showing a marked decrease in pressure resulting from loss of fibers to the heart when there is a need to increase heart vasomotor tone. rate and contractility. Conversely, when there is a need to decrease heart pumping, the medial portion of the vaso- to all levels of the spinal cord, where they excite motor center sends signals to the adjacent dorsal motor preganglionic vasoconstrictor neurons of the sym- nuclei of the vagus nerves, which then transmit parasym- pathetic nervous system. pathetic impulses through the vagus nerves to the heart to 2. A vasodilator area located bilaterally in the ante- decrease heart rate and heart contractility. Therefore, the rolateral portions of the lower half of the medulla. vasomotor center can increase or decrease heart activity. The fibers from these neurons project upward to Heart rate and the strength of heart contractions ordinar- the vasoconstrictor area just described, inhibiting ily increase when vasoconstriction occurs and ordinarily the vasoconstrictor activity of this area and causing decrease when vasoconstriction is inhibited. vasodilation. 3. A sensory area located bilaterally in the nucleus Control of the Vasomotor Center by Higher N ervous tractus solitarius in the posterolateral portions of Centers. Large numbers of small neurons located through- the medulla and lower pons. The neurons of this out the reticular substance of the pons, mesencephalon, area receive sensory nerve signals from the circu- and diencephalon can excite or inhibit the vasomotor latory system mainly through the vagus and glos- center. This reticular substance is shown in Figure 18- 3. In sopharyngeal nerves, and output signals from this general, the neurons in the more lateral and superior por- sensory area then help control activities of the vaso- tions of the reticular substance cause excitation, whereas constrictor and vasodilator areas of the vasomotor the more medial and inferior portions cause inhibition. center, thus providing reflex control of many circu- The hypothalamus plays a special role in controlling latory functions. An example is the baroreceptor re- the vasoconstrictor system because it can exert powerful flex for controlling arterial pressure, described later excitatory or inhibitory effects on the vasomotor center. in this chapter. The posterolateral portions of the hypothalamus cause mainly excitation, whereas the anterior portion can cause Continuous Partial Constriction of Blood Vessels by mild excitation or inhibition, depending on the
