Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


chapter. The posterolateral portions of the hypothalamus cause mainly excitation, whereas the anterior portion can cause Continuous Partial Constriction of Blood Vessels by mild excitation or inhibition, depending on the precise Sympathetic Vasoconstrictor Tone. Under normal con- part of the anterior hypothalamus that is stimulated. ditions, the vasoconstrictor area of the vasomotor center Many parts of the cerebral cortex can also excite or transmits signals continuously to the sympathetic vaso- inhibit the vasomotor center. Stimulation of the motor constrictor nerve fibers over the entire body, causing slow cortex, for example, excites the vasomotor center because firing of these fibers at a rate of about 0.5 to 2 impulses of impulses transmitted downward into the hypothala- per second. This continual firing is called sympathetic mus and then to the vasomotor center. Also, stimulation vasoconstrictor tone. These impulses normally maintain of the anterior temporal lobe, orbital areas of the frontal a partial state of constriction in the blood vessels, called cortex, anterior part of the cingulate gyrus, amygdala, sep- vasomotor tone. tum, and hippocampus can all excite or inhibit the vaso- Figure 18- 4 demonstrates the significance of vaso- motor center, depending on the precise portions of these constrictor tone. In the experiment shown in this figure, areas that are stimulated and the intensity of the stimulus. a spinal anesthetic was administered to an animal. This Thus, widespread basal areas of the brain can have pro- anesthetic blocked all transmission of sympathetic nerve found effects on cardiovascular function. impulses from the spinal cord to the periphery. As a result, the arterial pressure fell from 100 to 50 mm Hg, Norepinephrine Is the Sympathetic Vasoconstrictor demonstrating the effect of the loss of vasoconstrictor Neurotransmitter. The substance secreted at the e ndings 219 )gH mm( erusserp lairetrA UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Role of the Nervous System in Rapid of the vasoconstrictor nerves is almost entirely norepi- Control of Arterial Pressure nephrine, which acts directly on the alpha- adrenergic receptors of the vascular smooth muscle to cause vaso- One of the most important functions of nervous control constriction, as discussed in Chapter 61. of the circulation is its capability to cause rapid increases in arterial pressure. For this purpose, the entire vaso- Adrenal Medullae and Their Relationship to the Sym- constrictor and cardioaccelerator functions of the sym- pathetic Vasoconstrictor System. Sympathetic impulses pathetic nervous system are stimulated together. At the are transmitted to
