Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Medullae and Their Relationship to the Sym- constrictor and cardioaccelerator functions of the sym- pathetic Vasoconstrictor System. Sympathetic impulses pathetic nervous system are stimulated together. At the are transmitted to the adrenal medullae at the same time same time, there is reciprocal inhibition of parasympa- that they are transmitted to the blood vessels. These im- thetic vagal inhibitory signals to the heart. Thus, the fol- pulses cause the medullae to secrete epinephrine and nor- lowing three major changes occur simultaneously, each of epinephrine into the circulating blood. These two hormones which helps increase arterial pressure: are carried in the blood stream to all parts of the body, 1. Most arterioles of the systemic circulation are con- where they act directly on all blood vessels and usually stricted, which greatly increases the total peripheral cause vasoconstriction. In a few tissues, epinephrine causes resistance, thereby increasing the arterial pressure. vasodilation because it also stimulates beta- adrenergic re- 2. The veins especially (but the other large vessels of ceptors, which dilates rather than constricts certain vessels, the circulation as well) are strongly constricted. This as discussed in Chapter 61. constriction displaces blood out of the large periph- eral blood vessels toward the heart, thus increasing Sympathetic Vasodilator System and Its Control by the the volume of blood in the heart chambers. The Central Nervous System. The sympathetic nerves to skel- stretch of the heart then causes the heart to beat etal muscles carry sympathetic vasodilator fibers, as well as with greater force and therefore to pump increased constrictor fibers. In some animals, such as the cat, these quantities of blood. This also increases the arterial dilator fibers release acetylcholine, not norepinephrine, at pressure. their endings. However, in primates, the vasodilator effect 3. Finally, the heart is directly stimulated by the au- is believed to be caused by epinephrine exciting specific tonomic nervous system, further enhancing cardiac beta- adrenergic receptors in the muscle vasculature. pumping. Much of this enhanced cardiac pumping is The pathway for central nervous system (CNS) control caused by an increase in the heart rate, which some- of the vasodilator system is shown by the dashed lines in Figure 18- 3. The principal area of the brain controlling this times increases to as much as three times normal. system is the anterior hypothalamus. In addition, sympathetic nervous signals directly Possible Role of the Sympathetic Vasodilator System. increase the contractile force of
