Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to as much as three times normal. system is the anterior hypothalamus. In addition, sympathetic nervous signals directly Possible Role of the Sympathetic Vasodilator System. increase the contractile force of the heart muscle, The sympathetic vasodilator system does not appear to play increasing the capability of the heart to pump larger a major role in the control of the circulation in humans be- volumes of blood. During strong sympathetic stimu- cause complete block of the sympathetic nerves to the mus- lation, the heart can pump about two times as much cles hardly affects the ability of these muscles to control their blood as under normal conditions, which contrib- own blood flow in many physiological conditions. Yet, some utes still more to the acute rise in arterial pressure. experiments have suggested that at the onset of exercise, the sympathetic system might cause initial vasodilation in skel- Nervous Control of Arterial Pressure Is Rapid. An es- etal muscles to allow an anticipatory increase in blood flow, pecially important characteristic of nervous control of ar- even before the muscles require increased nutrients. There terial pressure is its rapidity of response, beginning within is evidence in humans that this sympathetic vasodilator re- seconds and often increasing the pressure to two times sponse in skeletal muscles may be mediated by circulating normal within 5 to 10 seconds. Conversely, sudden inhi- epinephrine, which stimulates beta-a drenergic receptors, or bition of nervous cardiovascular stimulation can decrease by nitric oxide released from the vascular endothelium in re- the arterial pressure to as little as half- normal within 10 to sponse to stimulation by acetylcholine. Emotional Fainting—Vasovagal Syncope. An interest- 40 seconds. Therefore, nervous control is the most rapid mechanism for arterial pressure regulation. ing vasodilatory reaction occurs in people who experience intense emotional disturbances that cause fainting. In this INCREASES IN ARTERIAL PRESSURE case, the muscle vasodilator system becomes activated DURING MUSCLE EXERCISE AND OTHER and, at the same time, the vagal cardioinhibitory center STRESSES transmits strong signals to the heart to slow the heart rate markedly. The arterial pressure falls rapidly, which reduces An important example of the nervous system’s ability blood flow to the brain and causes the person to lose con- sciousness. This overall effect is called vasovagal syncope. to increase arterial pressure is the rise in pressure that Emotional fainting begins with disturbing thoughts in the occurs during muscle exercise. During heavy exercise, the
