Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is called vasovagal syncope. to increase arterial pressure is the rise in pressure that Emotional fainting begins with disturbing thoughts in the occurs during muscle exercise. During heavy exercise, the cerebral cortex. The pathway probably then goes to the vas- muscles require greatly increased blood flow. Part of this odilatory center of the anterior hypothalamus next to the increase results from local vasodilation of the muscle vas- vagal centers of the medulla, to the heart through the vagus culature caused by increased metabolism of the muscle nerves, and also through the spinal cord to the sympathetic cells, as explained in Chapter 17. An additional increase vasodilator nerves of the muscles. results from simultaneous elevation of arterial pressure 220 Chapter 18 Nervous Regulation of the Circulation and Rapid Control of Arterial Pressure caused by sympathetic stimulation of the overall circula- multiple subconscious special nervous control mecha- tion during exercise. In heavy exercise, the arterial pres- nisms operate all the time to maintain the arterial pressure sure rises by about 30% to 40%, which further increases at or near normal. Almost all these are negative feedback blood flow by almost 2-fold. reflex mechanisms, described in the following sections. The increase in arterial pressure during exercise results Baroreceptor Arterial Pressure Control mainly from effects of the nervous system. At the same System—Baroreceptor Reflexes time that the motor areas of the brain become activated to cause exercise, most of the reticular activating system The best known of the nervous mechanisms for arterial of the brain stem is also activated, which includes greatly pressure control is the baroreceptor reflex. Basically, this increased stimulation of the vasoconstrictor and cardio- reflex is initiated by stretch receptors, called baroreceptors acceleratory areas of the vasomotor center. These effects or pressoreceptors, located at specific points in the walls of rapidly increase the arterial pressure to keep pace with the several large systemic arteries. A rise in arterial pressure increase in muscle activity. stretches the baroreceptors and causes them to transmit In many other types of stress besides muscle exercise, signals into the CNS. Feedback signals are then sent back a similar rise in pressure can also occur. For example, dur- through the autonomic nervous system to the circulation ing extreme fright, the arterial pressure sometimes rises to reduce arterial pressure down toward the normal level. by as much as 75 to 100 mm Hg within a few seconds. This response
