Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fright, the arterial pressure sometimes rises to reduce arterial pressure down toward the normal level. by as much as 75 to 100 mm Hg within a few seconds. This response is called the alarm reaction, and it provides Physiologic Anatomy of the Baroreceptors and Their an elevated arterial pressure that can immediately supply Innervation. Baroreceptors are spray- type nerve end- blood to the muscles of the body that might be needed to ings that lie in the walls of the arteries and are stimulated respond instantly to enable flight from danger. when stretched. A few baroreceptors are located in the wall of almost every large artery of the thoracic and neck REFLEX MECHANISMS FOR MAINTAINING regions but, as shown in Figure 18- 5, baroreceptors are NORMAL ARTERIAL PRESSURE extremely abundant in the following regions: (1) the wall of each internal carotid artery, slightly above the carotid Aside from the exercise and stress functions of the auto- bifurcation, an area known as the carotid sinus; and (2) nomic nervous system to increase arterial pressure, the wall of the aortic arch. Glossopharyngeal nerve Glossopharyngeal nerve Hering’s nerve External carotid artery External carotid artery Internal carotid artery Internal carotid artery Carotid body Hering’s nerve Carotid sinus Common carotid artery Vagus nerve Carotid body (chemoreceptor) Carotid sinus Aortic baroreceptors Common carotid artery Figure 18- 5. Baroreceptor system for controlling arterial pressure. 221 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation 150 100 ∆I = maximum ∆P Both common Carotids released carotids clamped 50 0 0 80 160 240 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Arterial blood pressure (mm Hg) Minutes Figure 18- 6. Activation of the baroreceptors at different levels of ar- Figure 18- 7. Typical carotid sinus reflex effect on aortic arterial pres- terial pressure. ΔI, Change in carotid sinus nerve impulses per second; sure caused by clamping both common carotids (after the two vagus ΔP, change in arterial blood pressure (in mm Hg). nerves have been cut). Figure 18- 5 shows that signals from the carotid baro- the vasoconstrictor center of the medulla and excite the va- receptors are transmitted through small Hering’s nerves to gal parasympathetic center. The net effects are as follows: the glossopharyngeal nerves in the high neck and then to (1) vasodilation of the veins and arterioles throughout the nucleus tractus solitarius in the medullary area of the the peripheral circulatory system; and (2) decreased heart brain stem.
