Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


then to (1) vasodilation of the veins and arterioles throughout the nucleus tractus solitarius in the medullary area of the the peripheral circulatory system; and (2) decreased heart brain stem. Signals from the aortic baroreceptors in the rate and strength of heart contraction. Therefore, excita- arch of the aorta are transmitted through the vagus nerves tion of the baroreceptors by high pressure in the arteries to the same nucleus tractus solitarius of the medulla. reflexly causes the arterial pressure to decrease because of a decrease in peripheral resistance and a decrease in Response of the Baroreceptors to Changes in Arte- cardiac output. Conversely, low pressure has the opposite rial Pressure. Figure 18- 6 shows the effects of different effects, reflexly causing the pressure to rise back toward arterial pressure levels on the rate of impulse transmission normal. in a Hering’s carotid sinus nerve. Note that the carotid Figure 18-7 shows a typical reflex change in arterial sinus baroreceptors are not stimulated at all by pressures pressure caused by occluding the two common carotid between 0 and 50 to 60 mm Hg but, above these levels, arteries. This reduces the carotid sinus pressure; as a they respond progressively more rapidly and reach a max- result, signals from the baroreceptors decrease and imum at about 180 mm Hg. The responses of the aortic cause less inhibitory effect on the vasomotor center. The baroreceptors are similar to those of the carotid receptors vasomotor center then becomes much more active than except that they operate, in general, at arterial pressure usual, causing the aortic arterial pressure to rise and levels about 30 mm Hg higher. remain elevated during the 10 minutes that the carot- Note especially that in the normal operating range of ids are occluded. Removal of the occlusion allows the arterial pressure, around 100 mm Hg, even a slight change pressure in the carotid sinuses to rise, and the carotid in pressure causes a strong change in the baroreflex signal sinus reflex now causes the aortic pressure to fall almost to readjust arterial pressure back toward normal. Thus, immediately to slightly below normal as a momentary the baroreceptor feedback mechanism functions most overcompensation and then return to normal in another effectively in the pressure range where it is most needed. minute. The baroreceptors respond rapidly to changes in arte- rial pressure; the rate of impulse firing increases in the Baroreceptors Attenuate Blood
