Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the pressure range where it is most needed. minute. The baroreceptors respond rapidly to changes in arte- rial pressure; the rate of impulse firing increases in the Baroreceptors Attenuate Blood Pressure Changes fraction of a second during each systole and decreases During Changes in Body Posture. The ability of the ba- again during diastole. Furthermore, the baroreceptors roreceptors to maintain relatively constant arterial pres- respond much more to a rapidly changing pressure than to sure in the upper body is important when a person stands a stationary pressure. That is, if the mean arterial pressure up after lying down. Immediately on standing, the arterial is 150 mm Hg but at that moment is rising rapidly, the pressure in the head and upper part of the body tends to rate of impulse transmission may be as much as twice that fall, and marked reduction of this pressure could cause when the pressure is stationary at 150 mm Hg. loss of consciousness. However, the falling pressure at the baroreceptors elicits an immediate reflex, resulting in Circulatory Reflex Initiated by the Baroreceptors. strong sympathetic discharge throughout the body that After the baroreceptor signals have entered the nucleus minimizes the decrease in pressure in the head and up- tractus solitarius of the medulla, secondary signals inhibit per body. 222 ditorac morf seslupmi fo rebmuN dnoces rep sevren sunis )gH mm( erusserp lairetrA Chapter 18 Nervous Regulation of the Circulation and Rapid Control of Arterial Pressure Normal 200 6 5 Normal 100 4 3 0 2 24 1 Denervated Baroreceptors denervated 200 0 0 50 100 150 200 250 Mean arterial pressure (mm Hg) Figure 18- 9. Frequency distribution curves of the arterial pressure 100 for a 24-h our period in a normal dog and in the same dog several weeks after the baroreceptors had been denervated. (Modified from Cowley AW Jr, Liard JP, Guyton AC: Role of baroreceptor reflex in daily control of arterial blood pressure and other variables in dogs. Circ Res 32:564, 1973.) 0 Time (min) A primary purpose of the arterial baroreceptor system 24 is therefore to reduce the minute by minute variation in Figure 18- 8. Two-h our records of arterial pressure in a normal dog arterial pressure to about one-third that which would (top) and in the same dog (bottom) several weeks after the barore- occur if the baroreceptor system were not present. ceptors had been denervated. (Modified from
