Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


one-third that which would (top) and in the same dog (bottom) several weeks after the barore- occur if the baroreceptor system were not present. ceptors had been denervated. (Modified from Cowley AW Jr, Liard JF, Guyton AC: Role of baroreceptor reflex in daily control of arterial Are the Baroreceptors Important in Long-T erm blood pressure and other variables in dogs. Circ Res 32:564, 1973.) Regulation of Arterial Pressure? Although the arte- Pressure Buffer Function of the Baroreceptor Control rial baroreceptors provide powerful moment to moment System. Because the baroreceptor system opposes in- control of arterial pressure, their importance in long- term creases or decreases in arterial pressure, it is called a pres- blood pressure regulation has been controversial. One rea- sure buffer system, and the nerves from the baroreceptors son that the baroreceptors have been considered by some are called buffer nerves. physiologists to be relatively unimportant in chronic regula- Figure 18- 8 shows the importance of this buffer func- tion of arterial pressure is that they tend to reset in 1 to 2 tion of the baroreceptors. The upper panel in this figure days to the pressure level to which they are exposed. That shows an arterial pressure recording for 2 hours from a is, if the arterial pressure rises from the normal value of 100 normal dog, and the lower panel shows an arterial pres- to 160 mm Hg, a very high rate of baroreceptor impulses is sure recording from a dog whose baroreceptor nerves at first transmitted. During the next few minutes, the rate from the carotid sinuses and the aorta had been removed. of firing diminishes considerably. Then, it diminishes much Note the extreme variability of pressure in the denervated more slowly during the next 1 to 2 days, at the end of which dog caused by simple events of the day, such as lying down, time the rate of firing will have returned to nearly normal, standing, excitement, eating, defecation, and noises. despite the fact that the mean arterial pressure still remains Figure 18- 9 shows the frequency distributions of the at 160 mm Hg. Conversely, when the arterial pressure falls mean arterial pressures recorded for a 24-h our day in the to a very low level, the baroreceptors at first transmit no im- normal dog and the denervated dog. Note that when the pulses but gradually, over 1 to 2 days, the rate of
