Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


low level, the baroreceptors at first transmit no im- normal dog and the denervated dog. Note that when the pulses but gradually, over 1 to 2 days, the rate of barorecep- baroreceptors were functioning normally, the mean arte- tor firing returns toward the control level. rial pressure remained within a narrow range of between This resetting of the baroreceptors may attenuate their 85 and 115 mm Hg throughout the day and, for most of potency as a control system for correcting disturbances the day, it remained at about 100 mm Hg. After denerva- that tend to change arterial pressure for longer than a few tion of the baroreceptors, however, the frequency distri- days at a time. Experimental studies, however, have sug- bution curve flattened, showing that the pressure range gested that the baroreceptors do not completely reset and increased 2.5- fold, frequently falling to as low as 50 mm may therefore contribute to long- term blood pressure reg- Hg or rising to more than 160 mm Hg. Thus, one can see ulation, especially by influencing sympathetic nerve activ- the extreme variability of pressure in the absence of the ity of the kidneys. For example, with prolonged increases arterial baroreceptor system. in arterial pressure, the baroreceptor reflexes may mediate 223 )gH mm( erusserp lairetrA ecnerrucco fo egatnecreP UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation decreases in renal sympathetic nerve activity that promote in conditions such as severe obesity and obstructive sleep increased excretion of sodium and water by the kidneys. apnea, a serious sleep disorder associated with repetitive This action, in turn, causes a gradual decrease in blood episodes of nocturnal breathing cessation and hypoxia. volume, which helps restore arterial pressure toward nor- mal. Thus, long- term regulation of mean arterial pressure Atrial and Pulmonary Artery Reflexes Regulate Arteri- by the baroreceptors requires interaction with additional al Pressure. The atria and pulmonary arteries have stretch systems, principally the renal–body fluid–pressure control receptors in their walls called low- pressure receptors. Low- system (along with its associated nervous and hormonal pressure receptors are similar to the baroreceptor stretch mechanisms), discussed in Chapters 19 and 30. receptors of the large systemic arteries. These low- pressure Experimental studies and clinical trials have shown receptors play an important role, especially in minimizing that chronic electrical stimulation of carotid sinus afferent arterial pressure changes in response to changes in blood nerve fibers can cause sustained reductions in sympathetic
