Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


important role, especially in minimizing that chronic electrical stimulation of carotid sinus afferent arterial pressure changes in response to changes in blood nerve fibers can cause sustained reductions in sympathetic volume. For example, if 300 milliliters of blood suddenly nervous system activity and arterial pressure of at least 15 are infused into a dog with all receptors intact, the arte- to 20 mm Hg. These observations suggest that most, if rial pressure rises only about 15 mm Hg. With the arterial not all, the baroreceptor reflex resetting that occurs when baroreceptors denervated, the pressure rises about 40 mm increases in arterial pressure are sustained, as in chronic Hg. If the low- pressure receptors also are denervated, the hypertension, is due to resetting of the carotid sinus nerve arterial pressure rises about 100 mm Hg. mechanoreceptors themselves rather than resetting in Thus, one can see that even though the low- pressure central nervous system vasomotor centers. receptors in the pulmonary artery and in the atria cannot detect the systemic arterial pressure, they do detect simul- Control of Arterial Pressure by the Carotid and Aortic taneous increases in pressure in the low- pressure areas of Chemoreceptors—Effect of Low Oxygen on Arterial the circulation caused by increase in volume. Also, they Pressure. Closely associated with the baroreceptor pres- elicit reflexes parallel to the baroreceptor reflexes to make sure control system is a chemoreceptor reflex that operates the total reflex system more potent for control of arterial in much the same way as the baroreceptor reflex except pressure. that chemoreceptors, instead of stretch receptors, initiate the response. Atrial Reflexes That Activate the Kidneys—The The chemoreceptor cells are sensitive to low oxygen Volume Reflex. Stretch of the atria and activation of or elevated carbon dioxide and hydrogen ion levels. They low- pressure atrial receptors also causes reflex reductions are located in several small chemoreceptor organs about 2 in renal sympathetic nerve activity, decreased tubular re- millimeters in size (two carotid bodies, one of which lies absorption, and dilation of afferent arterioles in the kid- in the bifurcation of each common carotid artery, and neys (Figure 18- 10). Signals are also transmitted simul- usually one to three aortic bodies adjacent to the aorta). taneously from the atria to the hypothalamus to decrease The chemoreceptors excite nerve fibers that along with secretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH). The decreased the baroreceptor fibers, pass through Hering’s nerves and afferent
