Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


atria to the hypothalamus to decrease The chemoreceptors excite nerve fibers that along with secretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH). The decreased the baroreceptor fibers, pass through Hering’s nerves and afferent arteriolar resistance in the kidneys causes the the vagus nerves into the vasomotor center of the brain glomerular capillary pressure to rise, with a resultant in- stem. crease in filtration of fluid into the kidney tubules. The de- Each carotid or aortic body is supplied with an abun- crease in ADH level diminishes the reabsorption of water dant blood flow through a small nutrient artery, so the from the tubules. The combination of these effects—an chemoreceptors are always in close contact with arterial increase in glomerular filtration and a decrease in reab- blood. Whenever the arterial pressure falls below a criti- sorption of the fluid—increases fluid loss by the kidneys cal level, the chemoreceptors become stimulated because and attenuates the increased blood volume. Atrial stretch diminished blood flow causes decreased oxygen, as well caused by increased blood volume also elicits release of as excess buildup of carbon dioxide and hydrogen ions atrial natriuretic peptide, a hormone that adds further to that are not removed by the slowly flowing blood. the excretion of sodium and water in the urine and return The signals transmitted from the chemoreceptors excite of blood volume toward normal (see Figure 18- 10). the vasomotor center, and this response elevates the arte- All these mechanisms that tend to return blood volume rial pressure back toward normal. However, this chemore- back toward normal after a volume overload act indirectly ceptor reflex is not a powerful arterial pressure controller as pressure controllers, as well as blood volume control- until the arterial pressure falls below 80 mm Hg. Therefore, lers, because excess volume drives the heart to greater it is at the lower pressures that this reflex becomes impor- cardiac output and higher arterial pressure. This volume tant to help prevent further decreases in arterial pressure. reflex mechanism is discussed again in Chapter 30, along The chemoreceptors are discussed in much more detail with other mechanisms of blood volume control. in Chapter 42 in relation to respiratory control, in which they normally play a far more important role than in blood Increased Atrial Pressure Raises Heart Rate—Bainbridge pressure control. However, activation of the chemorecep- Reflex. Increases in atrial pressure sometimes increase the tors may also contribute to increases in arterial
