Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood Increased Atrial Pressure Raises Heart Rate—Bainbridge pressure control. However, activation of the chemorecep- Reflex. Increases in atrial pressure sometimes increase the tors may also contribute to increases in arterial pressure heart rate as much as 75%, particularly when the prevailing 224 Chapter 18 Nervous Regulation of the Circulation and Rapid Control of Arterial Pressure Blood volume Bainbridge reflex Cardiac Atrial Heart output stretch rate Atrial Arterial “volume” pressure reflex Baroreceptor reflex Renal Atrial sympathetic Antidiuretic natriuretic activity hormone peptide Sodium and Figure 18- 10. Reflex responses to increased blood water excretion volume which increase arterial pressure and atrial stretch. heart rate is slow. When the heart rate is rapid, atrial stretch and low- pressure receptors, all of which are located in the cause by infusion of fluids may reduce the heart rate due to peripheral circulation outside the brain. However, when activation of arterial baroreceptors. Thus, the net effect of blood flow to the vasomotor center in the lower brain increased blood volume and atrial stretch on heart rate de- stem becomes decreased severely enough to cause nutri- pends on the relative contributions of the baroreceptor re- tional deficiency—that is, to cause cerebral ischemia—the flexes (which tends to slow the heart rate) and the Bainbridge vasoconstrictor and cardioaccelerator neurons in the reflex which tends to accelerate the heart rate, as shown in vasomotor center respond directly to the ischemia and Figure 18- 10. When blood volume is increased above nor- become strongly excited. When this excitation occurs, the mal, the Bainbridge reflex often increases heart rate despite systemic arterial pressure often rises to a level as high as the inhibitory actions of the baroreflexes. the heart can possibly pump. This effect is believed to be A small part of the increased heart rate associated with caused by failure of the slowly flowing blood to carry car- increased blood volume and atrial stretch is caused by a bon dioxide away from the brain stem vasomotor center. direct effect of the increased atrial volume to stretch the At low levels of blood flow to the vasomotor center, the sinus node; it was noted in Chapter 10 that such direct local concentration of carbon dioxide increases greatly stretch can increase the heart rate as much as 15%. An and has an extremely potent effect in stimulating the sym- additional 40% to 60% increase in heart rate is caused by pathetic vasomotor nervous
