Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rate as much as 15%. An and has an extremely potent effect in stimulating the sym- additional 40% to 60% increase in heart rate is caused by pathetic vasomotor nervous control areas in the brain’s the Bainbridge reflex. The stretch receptors of the atria medulla. that elicit the Bainbridge reflex transmit their afferent sig- It is possible that other factors, such as buildup of lactic nals through the vagus nerves to the medulla of the brain. acid and other acidic substances in the vasomotor center, Then efferent signals are transmitted back through vagal also contribute to the marked stimulation and elevation and sympathetic nerves to increase the heart rate and in arterial pressure. This arterial pressure elevation in strength of heart contraction. Thus, this reflex helps pre- response to cerebral ischemia is known as the CNS isch- vent damming of blood in the veins, atria, and pulmonary emic response. circulation. The ischemic effect on vasomotor activity can elevate the mean arterial pressure dramatically, sometimes to as DECREASED BLOOD FLOW TO BRAIN high as 250 mm Hg for as long as 10 minutes. The degree VASOMOTOR CENTER ELICITS INCREASED of sympathetic vasoconstriction caused by intense cerebral BLOOD PRESSURE—CNS ISCHEMIC ischemia is often so great that some of the peripheral ves- RESPONSE sels become totally or almost totally occluded. The kidneys, for example, often cease their production of urine entirely Most nervous control of blood pressure is achieved by because of renal arteriolar constriction in response to reflexes that originate in the baroreceptors, chemoreceptors, the sympathetic discharge. Therefore, the CNS ischemic 225 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation response is one of the most powerful of all the activators of venous reservoirs of the abdomen, helping translocate the sympathetic vasoconstrictor system. blood out of the abdominal vascular reservoirs toward the heart. As a result, increased quantities of blood are Importance of CNS Ischemic Response as a Regulator made available for the heart to pump. This overall re- of Arterial Pressure. Despite the powerful nature of the sponse is called the abdominal compression reflex. The CNS ischemic response, it does not become significant resulting effect on the circulation is the same as that until the arterial pressure falls far below normal, down caused by sympathetic vasoconstrictor impulses when to 60 mm Hg and below, reaching its greatest degree of they constrict the veins—an increase in both cardiac stimulation at a pressure of 15
