Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


by sympathetic vasoconstrictor impulses when to 60 mm Hg and below, reaching its greatest degree of they constrict the veins—an increase in both cardiac stimulation at a pressure of 15 to 20 mm Hg. Therefore, output and arterial pressure. The abdominal compres- the CNS ischemic response is not one of the normal sion reflex is probably much more important than was mechanisms for regulating arterial pressure. Instead, it realized in the past because it is well known that people operates principally as an emergency pressure control sys- whose skeletal muscles have been paralyzed are consid- tem that acts rapidly and powerfully to prevent further erably more prone to hypotensive episodes than people decrease in arterial pressure whenever blood flow to the with normal skeletal muscles. brain decreases dangerously close to the lethal level. It is sometimes called the last- ditch stand pressure control Skeletal Muscle Contraction Increases Cardiac mechanism. Output and Arterial Pressure During Exercise. When the skeletal muscles contract during exercise, Cushing Reaction to Increased Pressure Around the they compress blood vessels throughout the body. Even Brain. The Cushing reaction is a special type of CNS is- anticipation of exercise tightens the muscles, thereby chemic response that results from increased pressure of compressing the vessels in the muscles and in the ab- the cerebrospinal fluid around the brain in the cranial domen. This compression translocates blood from the vault. For example, when the cerebrospinal fluid pres- peripheral vessels into the heart and lungs and, there- sure rises to equal the arterial pressure, it compresses the fore, increases cardiac output. This effect is essential whole brain, as well as the arteries in the brain, and cuts in helping cause the fivefold to sevenfold increase in off the blood supply to the brain. This action initiates a cardiac output that sometimes occurs during heavy ex- CNS ischemic response that causes the arterial pressure ercise. The rise in cardiac output, in turn, is an essen- to rise. When the arterial pressure has risen to a level tial ingredient in increasing the arterial pressure during higher than the cerebrospinal fluid pressure, blood will exercise, from a normal mean of 100 mm Hg up to 130 flow once again into the vessels of the brain to relieve the to 160 mm Hg. brain ischemia. Ordinarily, the blood pressure reaches a new equilibrium level slightly higher than the cerebrospi- RESPIRATORY WAVES IN THE ARTERIAL nal
