Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


brain to relieve the to 160 mm Hg. brain ischemia. Ordinarily, the blood pressure reaches a new equilibrium level slightly higher than the cerebrospi- RESPIRATORY WAVES IN THE ARTERIAL nal fluid pressure, thus allowing blood to begin to flow PRESSURE through the brain again. The Cushing reaction helps pro- tect vital centers of the brain from loss of nutrition if the With each cycle of respiration, the arterial pressure usu- cerebrospinal fluid pressure ever rises high enough to ally rises and falls 4 to 6 mm Hg in a wavelike manner, compress the cerebral arteries. causing respiratory waves in the arterial pressure. The waves result from several different effects, some of which SPECIAL FEATURES OF NERVOUS are reflex in nature, as follows: CONTROL OF ARTERIAL PRESSURE 1. Many of the breathing signals that arise in the res- piratory center of the medulla spill over into the ROLE OF THE SKELETAL NERVES AND vasomotor center with each respiratory cycle. SKELETAL MUSCLES IN I NCREASING 2. Every time a person inspires, the pressure in the CARDIAC OUTPUT AND ARTERIAL thoracic cavity becomes more negative than usual, PRESSURE causing the blood vessels in the chest to expand. This reduces the quantity of blood returning to the Although most rapidly acting nervous control of the circu- left side of the heart and thereby momentarily de- lation is affected through the autonomic nervous system, at creases the cardiac output and arterial pressure. least two conditions exist in which the skeletal nerves and 3. The pressure changes caused in the thoracic vessels muscles also play major roles in circulatory responses. by respiration can excite vascular and atrial stretch receptors. Abdominal Compression Reflex Increases Cardiac Although it is difficult to analyze the exact relations of Output and Arterial Pressure. When a baroreceptor all these factors in causing the respiratory pressure waves, or chemoreceptor reflex is elicited, nerve signals are the net result during normal respiration is usually an transmitted simultaneously through skeletal nerves to increase in arterial pressure during the early part of expi- skeletal muscles of the body, particularly to the abdomi- ration and a decrease in pressure during the remainder of nal muscles. Muscle contraction then compresses all the the respiratory cycle. During deep respiration, the blood 226 Chapter 18 Nervous Regulation of the Circulation and Rapid Control of Arterial Pressure pressure can rise and fall as much as 20 mm Hg with each 200
