Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the blood 226 Chapter 18 Nervous Regulation of the Circulation and Rapid Control of Arterial Pressure pressure can rise and fall as much as 20 mm Hg with each 200 100 respiratory cycle. 160 120 60 Arterial Pressure Vasomotor Waves— 80 Oscillation of Pressure Reflex Control 40 Systems 0 A B Often while recording arterial pressure, in addition to the small pressure waves caused by respiration, some much Figure 18- 11. A, Vasomotor waves caused by oscillation of the CNS larger waves are also noted—as high as 10 to 40 mm Hg ischemic response. B, Vasomotor waves caused by baroreceptor re- flex oscillation. at times—that rise and fall more slowly than the respi- ratory waves. The duration of each cycle varies from 26 seconds in the anesthetized dog to 7 to 10 seconds in the cally as long as the cerebrospinal fluid pressure remained unanesthetized human. These waves are called vasomo- elevated. tor waves or Mayer waves. Such records are illustrated in Thus, any reflex pressure control mechanism can oscil- Figure 18-1 1, showing the cyclical rise and fall in arterial late if the intensity of feedback is strong enough, and if there pressure. is a delay between excitation of the pressure receptor and the The cause of vasomotor waves is reflex oscillation of subsequent pressure response. The vasomotor waves illus- one or more nervous pressure control mechanisms, some trate that the nervous reflexes that control arterial pressure of which are the following. obey the same principles as those applicable to mechanical and electrical control systems. For example, if the feedback Oscillation of Baroreceptor and Chemoreceptor gain is too great in the guiding mechanism of an automatic Reflexes. The vasomotor waves of Figure 18-1 1B are pilot for an airplane, and there is also delay in the response often seen in experimental pressure recordings, al- time of the guiding mechanism, the plane will oscillate from though they are usually much less intense than shown side to side instead of following a straight course. in the figure. They are caused mainly by oscillation of the baroreceptor reflex. That is, a high pressure excites the baroreceptors, which then inhibits the sympathetic Bibliography nervous system and lowers the pressure a few seconds Cowley AW Jr: Long- term control of arterial blood pressure. Physiol later. The decreased pressure, in turn, reduces the ba- Rev 72:231, 1992. roreceptor stimulation and allows the vasomotor cent- Dampney
