Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


renal mechanisms. When the arterial pressure rose to such a high value, the Circ Res 116:991, 2015. Jardine DL, Wieling W, Brignole M, Lenders JWM, Sutton R, Stewart brain ischemia was relieved, and the sympathetic nervous J: The pathophysiology of the vasovagal response. Heart Rhythm system became inactive. As a result, the arterial pressure 15:921, 2018 fell rapidly back to a much lower value, causing brain is- Lohmeier TE, Hall JE: Device- based neuromodulation for resistant hy- chemia once again. The ischemia then initiated another pertension therapy. Circ Res 124:1071, 2019. rise in pressure. Again, the ischemia was relieved, and Lohmeier TE, Iliescu R: The baroreflex as a long- term controller of arterial pressure. Physiology (Bethesda) 30:148, 2015. again the pressure fell. This response repeated itself cycli- 227 )gH mm( erusserP UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Mansukhani MP, Wang S, Somers VK: Chemoreflex physiology and Prabhakar NR: Carotid body chemoreflex: a driver of autonomic ab- implications for sleep apnoea: insights from studies in humans. Exp normalities in sleep apnoea. Exp Physiol 101(8):975, 2016. Physiol 100:130, 2015. Toledo C, Andrade DC, Lucero C, Schultz HD, Marcus N, Retamal Mueller PJ, Clifford PS, Crandall CG, Smith SA, Fadel PJ: Integration M, Madrid C, Del Rio R: Contribution of peripheral and central of central and peripheral regulation of the circulation during exer- chemoreceptors to sympatho-e xcitation in heart failure. J Physiol cise: Acute and chronic adaptations. Compr Physiol 8:103, 2017. 595:43, 2017. 228 CHAPTER 1 9 Role of the Kidneys in Long- Term Control of Arterial Pressure and in Hypertension: The Integrated System for Arterial Pressure Regulation In addition to the rapidly acting mechanisms for regula- just as sensitive—if not more so—to pressure changes as tion of arterial pressure discussed in Chapter 18, the body in the hagfish. Indeed, an increase in arterial pressure in also has powerful mechanisms for regulating arterial the human of only a few millimeters of Hg can double pressure week after week and month after month. This the renal output of water, a phenomenon called pressure long- term control of arterial pressure is closely inter- diuresis, as well as double the output of salt, called pres- twined with homeostasis of body fluid volume, which is sure natriuresis. determined by the balance between fluid intake and out- In humans, just as in the hagfish, the renal–body put. For long- term survival, fluid intake and output must fluid system
