Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


determined by the balance between fluid intake and out- In humans, just as in the hagfish, the renal–body put. For long- term survival, fluid intake and output must fluid system for arterial pressure control is a fundamen- be precisely balanced, a task that is performed by multiple tal mechanism for long- term arterial pressure control. nervous and hormonal controls and by local control sys- However, through the stages of evolution, multiple refine- tems in the kidneys that regulate their excretion of salt ments have been added to make this system much more and water. In this chapter, we discuss these renal–body precise in its control. An especially important refinement, fluid systems that play a major role in long- term blood as discussed later, has been the addition of the renin- pressure regulation. angiotensin mechanism. RENAL–BODY FLUID SYSTEM FOR QUANTITATION OF PRESSURE DIURESIS ARTERIAL PRESSURE CONTROL AS A BASIS FOR ARTERIAL PRESSURE CONTROL The renal–body fluid system for arterial pressure control acts slowly but powerfully, as follows. If blood volume Figure 19- 1 shows the approximate average effect of dif- increases and vascular capacitance is not altered, arterial ferent arterial pressure levels on the renal output of salt pressure will also increase. The rising pressure, in turn, and water by an isolated kidney, demonstrating mark- causes the kidneys to excrete the excess volume, thus edly increased urine output as the pressure rises. This returning the pressure back toward normal. increased urinary output is the phenomenon of pressure In the phylogenetic history of animal development, this diuresis. The curve in this figure is called a renal urinary renal–body fluid system for pressure control is a primitive output curve or a renal function curve. In humans, at an one. It is fully operative in one of the lowest of vertebrates, arterial pressure of 50 mm Hg, the urine output is essen- the hagfish. This animal has a low arterial pressure, only 8 tially zero. At 100 mm Hg, it is normal and, at 200 mm to 14 mm Hg, and this pressure increases almost directly Hg, it is 4 to 6 times normal. Furthermore, not only does in proportion to its blood volume. The hagfish continually increasing the arterial pressure increase urine volume drinks sea water, which is absorbed into its blood, increas- output, but it also causes an approximately equal increase ing the blood volume and blood pressure. However, when in sodium
