Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cardiac output, urinary output, and arterial resting level. Shown by the middle curve is the effect of pressure caused by increased blood volume in dogs whose nervous this increased arterial pressure on urine output, which pressure control mechanisms had been blocked. This figure shows increased 12- fold. Along with this tremendous loss of return of arterial pressure to normal after about 1 hour of fluid loss fluid in the urine, both the cardiac output and arterial into the urine. (Courtesy Dr. William Dobbs.) pressure returned to normal during the subsequent hour. output. Therefore, body fluid volume increases, blood Thus, one sees an extreme capability of the kidneys to volume increases, and the arterial pressure rises until eliminate excess fluid volume from the body in response once again it returns to the equilibrium point. This return to high arterial pressure and, in so doing, to return the of the arterial pressure always back to the equilibrium arterial pressure back to normal. point is known as the near- infinite feedback gain principle Renal–Body Fluid Mechanism Provides Nearly Infinite for control of arterial pressure by the renal–body fluid Feedback Gain for Long-t erm Arterial Pressure Control. mechanism. Figure 19- 1 shows the relationship of the following: (1) the renal output curve for water and salt in response to rising ar- Two Key Determinants of Long-T erm Arterial Pressure. terial pressure; and (2) the line that represents the net water In Figure 19- 1, one can also see that two basic long- term and salt intake. Over a long period, the water and salt output factors determine the long- term arterial pressure level. must equal the intake. Furthermore, the only point on the As long as the two curves representing the renal output graph in Figure 19- 1 at which output equals intake is where of salt and water and the intake of salt and water remain the two curves intersect, called the equilibrium point (point exactly as they are shown in Figure 19- 1, the mean arte- A). Let us see what happens if the arterial pressure increases rial pressure level will eventually readjust to 100 mm Hg, above or decreases below the equilibrium point. which is the pressure level depicted by the equilibrium First, assume that the arterial pressure rises to 150 mm point of this figure. Furthermore, there are only two ways Hg (point B). At this level, the renal output
