Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


equilibrium First, assume that the arterial pressure rises to 150 mm point of this figure. Furthermore, there are only two ways Hg (point B). At this level, the renal output of water and in which the pressure of this equilibrium point can be salt is almost three times as great as intake. Therefore, changed from the 100 mm Hg level. One is by shifting the the body loses fluid, the blood volume decreases, and the pressure level of the renal output curve for salt and water, arterial pressure decreases. Furthermore, this negative and the other is by changing the level of the water and salt balance of fluid will not cease until the pressure falls all intake line. Therefore, expressed simply, the two primary the way back exactly to the equilibrium level. Even when determinants of the long- term arterial pressure level are the arterial pressure is only a few mm Hg greater than the as follows: equilibrium level, there still is slightly more loss of water 1. The degree of pressure shift of the renal output and salt than intake, so the pressure continues to fall that curve for water and salt last few mm Hg until the pressure eventually returns to the 2. The level of the water and salt intake equilibrium point. Operation of these two determinants in the control of If the arterial pressure falls below the equilibrium arterial pressure is demonstrated in Figure 19- 3. In Fig- point, the intake of water and salt is greater than the ure 19- 3A, some abnormality of the kidneys has caused 230 )lamron x( tuptuo dna ekatnI tuptuo caidraC tuptuo yranirU erusserp lairetrA )nim/lm( )nim/lm( )gH mm( Chapter 19 Role of the Kidneys in Long-T erm Control of Arterial Pressure and in Hypertension 8 8 Chronic Acute 6 High intake 6 B 4 4 Normal Elevated 2 pressure 2 Normal intake 0 A 0 50 100 150 200 250 A 0 0 50 100 150 200 Arterial pressure (mm Hg) 8 Figure 19- 4. Acute and chronic renal output curves. Under steady- state conditions, the renal output of salt and water is equal to intake Elevated 6 pressure of salt and water. Points A and B represent the equilibrium points for long- term regulation of arterial pressure when salt intake is normal or 4 six times normal, respectively. Because of the steepness of the chronic renal output curve,
