Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


equilibrium points for long- term regulation of arterial pressure when salt intake is normal or 4 six times normal, respectively. Because of the steepness of the chronic renal output curve, increased salt intake normally causes only small Normal changes in arterial pressure. In persons with impaired kidney func- 2 tion, the steepness of the renal output curve may be reduced, similar to the acute curve, resulting in increased sensitivity of arterial pres- 0 sure to changes in salt intake. B 0 50 100 150 200 250 Arterial pressure (mm Hg) much greater effect on the renal output of salt and wa- Figure 19- 3. Two ways in which the arterial pressure can be in- ter than that observed during acute changes in pressure creased. A, By shifting the renal output curve in the right- hand direc- (Figure 19- 4). Thus, when the kidneys are functioning tion toward a higher pressure level or by increasing the intake level normally, the chronic renal output curve is much steeper of salt and water (B). than the acute curve. the renal output curve to shift 50 mm Hg in the high- The powerful effects of chronic increases in arte- pressure direction (to the right). Note that the equilib- rial pressure on urine output occur because increased rium point has also shifted to 50 mm Hg higher than pressure not only has direct hemodynamic effects on normal. Therefore, one can state that if the renal output the kidney to increase excretion, but also has indirect curve shifts to a new pressure level, the arterial pressure effects mediated by nervous and hormonal changes that will follow to this new pressure level within a few days. occur when blood pressure is increased. For example, Figure 19- 3B shows how a change in the level of salt increased arterial pressure decreases activity of the and water intake also can change the arterial pressure. In sympathetic nervous system, partly through the baro- this case, the intake level has increased fourfold, and the receptor reflex mechanisms discussed in Chapter 18, equilibrium point has shifted to a pressure level of 160 and by reducing formation of various hormones such as mm Hg, 60 mm Hg above the normal level. Conversely, angiotensin II and aldosterone that tend to reduce salt a decrease in the intake level would reduce the arterial and water excretion by the kidneys. Reduced activity pressure. of these antinatriuretic
