Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


II and aldosterone that tend to reduce salt a decrease in the intake level would reduce the arterial and water excretion by the kidneys. Reduced activity pressure. of these antinatriuretic systems therefore amplifies the Thus, it is impossible to change the long-t erm mean arte- effectiveness of pressure natriuresis and diuresis in rais- rial pressure level to a new value without changing one or ing salt and water excretion during chronic increases both of the two basic determinants of long- term arterial in arterial pressure (see Chapters 28 and 30 for further pressure, either (1) the level of salt and water intake or (2) discussion). the degree of shift of the renal function curve along the Conversely, when blood pressure is reduced, the sym- pressure axis. However, if either of these is changed, one pathetic nervous system is activated, and formation of finds the arterial pressure thereafter to be regulated at a antinatriuretic hormones is increased, adding to the new pressure level, the arterial pressure at which the two direct effects of reduced pressure to decrease renal out- new curves intersect. put of salt and water. This combination of direct effects In most people, however, the renal function curve of pressure on the kidneys and indirect effects of pressure is much steeper than that shown in Figure 19- 3, and on the sympathetic nervous system and various hormone changes in salt intake have only a modest effect on arterial systems make pressure natriuresis and diuresis extremely pressure, as discussed in the next section. powerful factors for long- term control of arterial pressure and body fluid volumes. Chronic Renal Output Curve Much Steeper Than the The importance of neural and hormonal influences Acute Curve. An important characteristic of pressure on pressure natriuresis is especially evident during natriuresis (and pressure diuresis) is that chronic changes chronic changes in sodium intake. If the kidneys and in arterial pressure, lasting for days or months, have a nervous and hormonal mechanisms are functioning 231 )lamron ×( tuptuo ro ekatnI )lamron ×( tuptuo ro ekatnI UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation normally, chronic increases in intakes of salt and water to as high as six times normal are usually associated with little effect on arterial pressure. Note that the blood pressure equilibrium point B on the curve is 200 nearly the same as point A, the equilibrium point at normal salt intake. Conversely, decreases in salt
