Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Note that the blood pressure equilibrium point B on the curve is 200 nearly the same as point A, the equilibrium point at normal salt intake. Conversely, decreases in salt and water intake to as low as one- sixth normal typically 150 Cardiac have little effect on arterial pressure. Thus, many per- sons are said to be salt-i nsensitive because large varia- 100 tions in salt intake do not change blood pressure more Arterial pressure output than a few mm Hg. Persons with kidney injury or excessive secretion of 50 antinatriuretic hormones such as angiotensin II or aldo- sterone, however, may be salt- sensitive, with an attenu- ated renal output curve similar to the acute curve shown 0 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 in Figure 19- 4. In these cases, even moderate increases Total peripheral resistance in salt intake may cause significant increases in arterial (percent of normal) pressure. Figure 19- 5. Relationships of total peripheral resistance to the long- Some of the factors that cause blood pressure to be term levels of arterial pressure and cardiac output in different clinical salt- sensitive include loss of functional nephrons due abnormalities. In these conditions, the kidneys were functioning nor- to kidney injury and excessive formation of antinatri- mally. Note that changing the whole- body total peripheral resistance uretic hormones such as angiotensin II or aldosterone. caused equal and opposite changes in cardiac output but, in all cases, had no effect on arterial pressure. AV, Arteriovenous. (Modified from For example, surgical reduction of kidney mass or Guyton AC: Arterial Pressure and Hypertension. Philadelphia: WB injury to the kidney due to hypertension, diabetes, or Saunders, 1980.) various kidney diseases all cause blood pressure to be more sensitive to changes in salt intake. In these cases, greater than normal increases in arterial pressure are amounts of salt and water are lost from the body; this pro- required to raise renal output sufficiently to maintain cess continues until the arterial pressure returns to the a balance between the intake and output of salt and equilibrium pressure level. At this point, blood pressure water. is normalized, and extracellular fluid volume and blood There is evidence that long- term high salt intake, last- volume are decreased to levels below normal. ing for several years, may actually damage the kidneys and Figure 19- 5 shows the approximate cardiac outputs eventually makes blood pressure more salt- sensitive.
