Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


decreased to levels below normal. ing for several years, may actually damage the kidneys and Figure 19- 5 shows the approximate cardiac outputs eventually makes blood pressure more salt- sensitive. We and arterial pressures in different clinical conditions in will discuss salt sensitivity of blood pressure in patients which the long- term total peripheral resistance is much with hypertension later in this chapter. less than or much greater than normal, but kidney excre- tion of salt and water is normal. Note in all these differ- Failure of Increased Total Peripheral ent clinical conditions that the arterial pressure is also Resistance to Elevate Long-T erm Level of normal. Arterial Pressure if Fluid Intake and Renal A word of caution is necessary at this point in our Function Do Not Change discussion. Often, when the total peripheral resistance Recalling the basic equation for arterial pressure—arte- increases, this also increases the intrarenal vascular rial pressure equals cardiac output times total peripheral resistance at the same time, which alters the function of resistance—it is clear that an increase in total peripheral the kidney and can cause hypertension by shifting the resistance should elevate the arterial pressure. Indeed, renal function curve to a higher pressure level, as shown when the total peripheral resistance is acutely increased, in Figure 19-3 A. We will see an example of this mecha- the arterial pressure does rise immediately. Yet, if the nism later in this chapter when we discuss hypertension kidneys continue to function normally, the acute rise in caused by vasoconstrictor mechanisms. However, it is arterial pressure usually is not maintained. Instead, the the increase in renal resistance that is the culprit, not arterial pressure returns all the way to normal within the increased total peripheral resistance—an important about 1 or 2 days. Why? distinction. The reason for this phenomenon is that increasing vas- Increased Fluid Volume Can Elevate cular resistance everywhere else in the body besides in the Arterial Pressure by Increasing Cardiac kidneys does not change the equilibrium point for blood Output or Total Peripheral Resistance pressure control as dictated by the kidneys (see Figures 19- 1 and 19- 3). Instead, the kidneys immediately begin The overall mechanism whereby increased extracellular fluid to respond to the high arterial pressure, causing pres- volume may elevate arterial pressure, if vascular capacity is sure diuresis and pressure natriuresis. Within hours, large not simultaneously increased, is shown in Figure 19-
