Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


high arterial pressure, causing pres- volume may elevate arterial pressure, if vascular capacity is sure diuresis and pressure natriuresis. Within hours, large not simultaneously increased, is shown in Figure 19- 6. The 232 tuptuo caidrac dna erusserp lairetrA )lamron fo tnecrep( irebireB stnuhs VA msidioryhtrepyH aimenA esaesid yranomluP esaesid s'tegaP lamroN sbmil ruof fo lavomeR msidioryhtopyH Chapter 19 Role of the Kidneys in Long-T erm Control of Arterial Pressure and in Hypertension − Finally, because arterial pressure is equal to cardiac Increased extracellular fluid volume output times total peripheral resistance, the secondary increase in total peripheral resistance that results from the autoregulation mechanism helps increase the arte- Increased blood volume rial pressure. For example, only a 5% to 10% increase in cardiac output can increase the arterial pressure from Increased mean circulatory filling pressure the normal mean arterial pressure of 100 mm Hg up to 150 mm Hg when accompanied by an increase in total peripheral resistance due to tissue blood flow autoregu- Increased venous return of blood to the heart lation or other factors that cause vasoconstriction. The slight increase in cardiac output is often not measurable. Importance of Salt (NaCl) in the Renal– Increased cardiac output Body Fluid Schema for Arterial Pressure Regulation Autoregulation Although the discussions thus far have emphasized the importance of volume in regulation of arterial pressure, Increased total experimental studies have shown that an increase in peripheral resistance salt intake is far more likely to elevate the arterial pres- sure, especially in people who are salt- sensitive, than is Increased arterial pressure an increase in water intake. The reason for this finding is that pure water is normally excreted by the kidneys almost as rapidly as it is ingested, but salt is not excreted Increased urine output so easily. As salt accumulates in the body, it also indi- rectly increases the extracellular fluid volume for two basic reasons: Figure 19- 6. Sequential steps whereby increased extracellular fluid volume increases the arterial pressure. Note especially that increased 1. Although some additional sodium may be stored in cardiac output has both a direct effect to increase arterial pressure and the tissues when salt accumulates in the body, ex- an indirect effect by first increasing the total peripheral resistance. cess salt in the extracellular fluid increases the fluid osmolality. The increased osmolarity stimulates the sequential events are as follows: (1) increased extracellular thirst center in the brain,
