Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


peripheral resistance. cess salt in the extracellular fluid increases the fluid osmolality. The increased osmolarity stimulates the sequential events are as follows: (1) increased extracellular thirst center in the brain, making the person drink fluid volume, which (2) increases the blood volume, which extra amounts of water to return the extracellular (3) increases the mean circulatory filling pressure, which salt concentration to normal and increasing the ex- (4) increases venous return of blood to the heart, which (5) tracellular fluid volume. increases cardiac output, which (6) increases arterial pres- 2. The increase in osmolality caused by the excess salt sure. The increased arterial pressure, in turn, increases the in the extracellular fluid also stimulates the hypo- renal excretion of salt and water and may return extracellular thalamic–posterior pituitary gland secretory mech- fluid volume to nearly normal if kidney function is normal anism to secrete increased quantities of antidiuretic and vascular capacity is unaltered. hormone (discussed in Chapter 29). The antidiu- Note especially in this case the two ways in which an retic hormone then causes the kidneys to reabsorb increase in cardiac output can increase the arterial pres- greatly increased quantities of water from the renal sure. One of these is the direct effect of increased car- tubular fluid, thereby diminishing the excreted vol- diac output to increase the pressure, and the other is an ume of urine but increasing the extracellular fluid indirect effect to raise total peripheral vascular resistance volume. through autoregulation of blood flow. The second effect Thus, the amount of salt that accumulates in the can be explained as follows. body is an important determinant of the extracellular Referring to Chapter 17, let us recall that whenever an fluid volume. Relatively small increases in extracellular excess amount of blood flows through a tissue, the local fluid and blood volume can often increase the arterial tissue vasculature constricts and decreases the blood flow pressure substantially. This is true, however, only if the back toward normal. This phenomenon is called autoreg- excess salt accumulation leads to an increase in blood ulation, which simply means regulation of blood flow by volume and if vascular capacity is not simultaneously the tissue itself. When increased blood volume raises the increased. As discussed previously, increasing salt intake cardiac output, blood flow tends to increase in all tissues in the absence of impaired kidney function or excessive of the body; if the increased
