Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


discussed previously, increasing salt intake cardiac output, blood flow tends to increase in all tissues in the absence of impaired kidney function or excessive of the body; if the increased blood flow exceeds the meta- formation of antinatriuretic hormones usually does not bolic needs of the tissues, the autoregulation mechanisms increase arterial pressure much because the kidneys rap- constricts blood vessels all over the body, which in turn idly eliminate the excess salt, and blood volume is hardly increases the total peripheral resistance. altered. 233 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation CHRONIC HYPERTENSION (HIGH BLOOD understanding the role of the renal–body fluid volume PRESSURE) CAUSED BY IMPAIRED RENAL mechanism for arterial pressure regulation. Volume- FUNCTION loading hypertension means hypertension caused by excess accumulation of extracellular fluid in the body, When a person is said to have chronic hypertension (or some examples of which follow. high blood pressure), this means that his or her mean arterial pressure is greater than the upper range of the Experimental Volume- Loading Hypertension accepted normal measure. A mean arterial pressure Caused by Reduced Kidney Mass and Increased Salt greater than 110 mm Hg (normal is ≈90 mm Hg) is con- Intake. Figure 19-7 shows a typical experiment dem- sidered to be hypertensive. (This level of mean pressure onstrating volume- loading hypertension in a group of occurs when the diastolic blood pressure is greater than dogs with 70% of their kidney mass removed. At the first ≈90 mm Hg and the systolic pressure is greater than ≈135 circled point on the curve, the two poles of one of the mm Hg.) In persons with severe hypertension, the mean kidneys were removed, and at the second circled point, arterial pressure can rise to 150 to 170 mm Hg, with dia- the entire opposite kidney was removed, leaving the an- stolic pressure as high as 130 mm Hg and systolic pressure imals with only 30% of their normal renal mass. Note occasionally as high as 250 mm Hg. that removal of this amount of kidney mass increased Even moderate elevation of arterial pressure leads to the arterial pressure by an average of only 6 mm Hg. shortened life expectancy. At severely high pressures— Then, the dogs were given salt solution to drink instead that is, mean arterial pressures 50% or more above nor- of water. Because salt solution fails to quench the thirst, mal—a person can expect to
