Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


salt solution to drink instead that is, mean arterial pressures 50% or more above nor- of water. Because salt solution fails to quench the thirst, mal—a person can expect to live no more than a few more the dogs drank two to four times the normal amounts years unless appropriately treated. The lethal effects of of volume, and within a few days, their average arterial hypertension are caused mainly in three ways: pressure rose to about 40 mm Hg above normal. After 1. Excess workload on the heart leads to early heart 2 weeks, the dogs were given tap water again instead of failure and coronary heart disease, often causing salt solution; the pressure returned to normal within 2 death as a result of a heart attack. days. Finally, at the end of the experiment, the dogs were 2. The high pressure frequently damages a major given salt solution again, and this time the pressure rose blood vessel in the brain, followed by death of major much more rapidly to a high level, again demonstrating portions of the brain; this occurrence is a cerebral volume-l oading hypertension. infarct. Clinically, it is called a stroke. Depending If one considers again the basic determinants of long- on which part of the brain is involved, a stroke can term arterial pressure regulation, it is apparent why be fatal or cause paralysis, dementia, blindness, or hypertension occurred in the volume-l oading experiment multiple other serious brain disorders. illustrated in Figure 19- 7. First, reduction of the kidney 3. High pressure almost always causes injury in the mass to 30% of normal greatly reduced the ability of the kidneys, producing many areas of renal destruction kidneys to excrete salt and water. Therefore, salt and water and, eventually, kidney failure, uremia, and death. accumulated in the body and, in a few days, raised the Lessons learned from the type of hypertension arterial pressure high enough to excrete the excess salt called volume- loading hypertension have been crucial in and water intake. 0.9% NaCl Tap water 0.9% NaCl 150 140 130 120 Figure 19- 7. The average effect on ar- 35-45% of left Entire right terial pressure of drinking 0.9% saline 110 kidney removed kidney removed solution (0.9% NaCl) instead of water in dogs with 70% of their renal tissue removed. (Modified from Langston JB, 100 Guyton AC, Douglas BH, et al: Effect of changes in salt
