Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(0.9% NaCl) instead of water in dogs with 70% of their renal tissue removed. (Modified from Langston JB, 100 Guyton AC, Douglas BH, et al: Effect of changes in salt intake on arterial pressure and renal function in partially 0 nephrectomized dogs. Circ Res 12:508, 0 20 40 60 80 100 1963.) Days 234 erusserp lairetra naeM )lortnoc fo tnecrep( Chapter 19 Role of the Kidneys in Long-T erm Control of Arterial Pressure and in Hypertension Sequential Changes in Circulatory Function During After these early acute changes in the circulatory vari- Development of Volume-L oading Hypertension. It is ables had occurred, more prolonged secondary changes especially instructive to study the sequential changes in occurred during the next few weeks. Especially important circulatory function during progressive development of was a progressive increase in total peripheral resistance, volume-l oading hypertension (Figure 19- 8). A week or while at the same time the cardiac output decreased back so before the point labeled “0” days, the kidney mass had toward normal, at least partly as a result of the long- term already been decreased to only 30% of normal. Then, at blood flow autoregulation mechanism discussed in Chap- this point, the intake of salt and water was increased to ter 17 and earlier in this chapter. That is, after the car- about six times normal and kept at this high intake there- diac output had risen to a high level and had initiated the after. The acute effect was to increase extracellular fluid hypertension, the excess blood flow through the tissues volume, blood volume, and cardiac output to 20% to 40% then caused progressive constriction of the local arteri- above normal. Simultaneously, the arterial pressure began oles, thus returning the local blood flow in the body tis- to rise but not nearly so much at first as the fluid volumes sues and also the cardiac output toward normal while and cardiac output. The reason for this slower rise in pres- simultaneously causing a secondary increase in total sure can be discerned by studying the total peripheral peripheral resistance. resistance curve, which shows an initial decrease in total Note that the extracellular fluid volume and blood vol- peripheral resistance. This decrease was caused by the ume also returned toward normal along with the decrease baroreceptor mechanism discussed in Chapter 18, which in cardiac output. This outcome resulted from two fac- transiently attenuated the rise in
