Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hypertension. it is especially important to keep the patient’s body fluid Note especially the initial increase in cardiac output as the basic cause volume at a normal level by removing the appropriate of the hypertension. Subsequently, the autoregulation mechanism amount of water and salt each time the patient undergoes returns the cardiac output almost to normal while simultaneously dialysis. If this step is not performed, and extracellular causing a secondary increase in total peripheral resistance. (Modified from Guyton AC: Arterial Pressure and Hypertension. Philadelphia: fluid volume is allowed to increase, hypertension almost WB Saunders, 1980.) invariably develops in exactly the same way as shown 235 latoT ralullecartxE doolB larehpirep lairetrA emulov diulf emulov tuptuo caidraC ecnatsiser erusserp )sretil( )sretil( )nim/L( )nim/L/gH mm( )gH mm( UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation in Figure 19- 8. That is, the cardiac output increases at sympathetic nervous system, various hormones, and local first and causes hypertension. Then, the autoregulation autacoids such as prostaglandins, nitric oxide, and endo- mechanism returns the cardiac output back toward nor- thelin. When the arterial pressure falls, the JG cells release mal while causing a secondary increase in total peripheral renin by at least three major mechanisms: resistance. Therefore, in the end, the hypertension appears 1. Pressure- sensitive baroreceptors in the JG cells re- to be a high peripheral resistance type of hypertension, spond to decreased arterial pressure with increased although the initial cause is excess volume accumulation. release of renin. 2. Decreased sodium chloride delivery to the macula Hypertension Caused by Excess densa cells in the early distal tubule stimulates renin Aldosterone release (discussed further in Chapter 27) Another type of volume-l oading hypertension is caused 3. Increased sympathetic nervous system activity stim- by excess aldosterone in the body or, occasionally, by ulates renin release by activating beta- adrenergic excesses of other types of steroids. A small tumor in one receptors in the JG cells. Sympathetic stimulation of the adrenal glands occasionally secretes large quanti- also activates alpha- adrenergic receptors, which ties of aldosterone, which is the condition called primary can increase renal sodium chloride reabsorption aldosteronism. As discussed in Chapters 28 and 30, aldo- and reduce the glomerular filtration rate in cases sterone increases the rate of salt and water reabsorption of strong sympathetic activation. Increased renal by the tubules of the kidneys, thereby increasing blood sympathetic activity also enhances the sensitivity of volume, extracellular fluid volume, and
