Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and water reabsorption of strong sympathetic activation. Increased renal by the tubules of the kidneys, thereby increasing blood sympathetic activity also enhances the sensitivity of volume, extracellular fluid volume, and arterial pressure. renal baroreceptor and macula densa mechanisms If salt intake is increased at the same time, the hyperten- for renin release. sion becomes even greater. Furthermore, if the condition Most of the renin enters the renal blood and then persists for months or years, the excess arterial pressure passes out of the kidneys to circulate throughout the often causes pathological changes in the kidneys that entire body. However, small amounts of the renin do make the kidneys retain even more salt and water in addi- remain in the local fluids of the kidney and initiate several tion to that caused directly by the aldosterone. Therefore, intrarenal functions. the hypertension often finally becomes severe to the point Renin itself is an enzyme, not a vasoactive substance. of being lethal. As shown in Figure 19- 9, renin acts enzymatically on Here again, in the early stages of this type of hyperten- another plasma protein, a globulin called renin substrate sion, cardiac output is often increased but, in later stages, (or angiotensinogen), to release a 10–amino acid peptide, the cardiac output generally returns almost to normal angiotensin I. Angiotensin I has mild vasoconstrictor while total peripheral resistance becomes secondarily elevated, as explained earlier in the chapter for primary Decreased volume- loading hypertension. arterial pressure ROLE OF THE RENIN-A NGIOTENSIN Renin (kidney) SYSTEM IN ARTERIAL PRESSURE CONTROL Renin substrate (angiotensinogen) Aside from the capability of the kidneys to control arterial pressure through changes in extracellular fluid volume, Angiotensin I the kidneys also have another powerful mechanism for controlling pressure, the renin- angiotensin system. Converting Renin is a protein enzyme released by the kidneys enzyme (lung) when the arterial pressure falls too low. In turn, it raises the arterial pressure in several ways, thus helping correct Angiotensin II the initial fall in pressure. Angiotensinase COMPONENTS OF THE RENIN- (Inactivated) ANGIOTENSIN SYSTEM Renal retention Vasoconstriction of salt and water Figure 19- 9 shows the main functional steps whereby the renin- angiotensin system helps regulate arterial pressure. Renin is synthesized and stored in the juxtaglomerular cells (JG cells) of the kidneys. The JG cells are modified Increased arterial pressure smooth muscle cells located mainly in the walls of the afferent arterioles immediately proximal to the glomeruli.
