Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(JG cells) of the kidneys. The JG cells are modified Increased arterial pressure smooth muscle cells located mainly in the walls of the afferent arterioles immediately proximal to the glomeruli. Figure 19- 9. The renin- angiotensin vasoconstrictor mechanism for Multiple factors control renin secretion, including the arterial pressure control. 236 Chapter 19 Role of the Kidneys in Long-T erm Control of Arterial Pressure and in Hypertension properties but not enough to cause significant changes in 100 With circulatory function. The renin persists in the blood for renin-angiotensin system 30 to 60 minutes and continues to cause formation of still 75 more angiotensin I during this entire time. Within a few seconds to minutes after the formation 50 Without renin-angiotensin system of angiotensin I, two additional amino acids are split from the angiotensin I to form the 8–amino acid peptide 25 Hemorrhage angiotensin II. This conversion occurs to a great extent in the lungs while the blood flows through the small vessels 0 0 10 20 30 40 of the lungs, catalyzed by an enzyme called angiotensin- Minutes converting enzyme (ACE) that is present in the endothe- Figure 19- 10. The pressure- compensating effect of the renin- lium of the lung vessels. Other tissues such as the kidneys angiotensin vasoconstrictor system after severe hemorrhage. (Drawn and blood vessels also contain ACE and therefore form from experiments by Dr. Royce Brough.) angiotensin II locally. Angiotensin II is an extremely powerful vasocon- strictor, and it affects circulatory function in other ways this system can be of lifesaving service to the body, espe- as well. However, it persists in the blood only for 1 or 2 cially in circulatory shock. minutes because it is rapidly inactivated by multiple blood Note also that the renin- angiotensin vasoconstric- and tissue enzymes collectively called angiotensinases. tor system requires about 20 minutes to become fully Angiotensin II has two principal effects that can ele- active. Therefore, it is somewhat slower for blood pres- vate arterial pressure. The first of these, vasoconstriction sure control than the nervous reflexes and sympathetic in many areas of the body, occurs rapidly. Vasoconstric- norepinephrine- epinephrine system. tion occurs intensely in the arterioles and less so in the Angiotensin II Causes Renal Retention of veins. Constriction of the arterioles increases the total Salt and Water—An Important Means for peripheral resistance, thereby raising the arterial pressure, Long- Term Control of Arterial Pressure as demonstrated at
