Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


veins. Constriction of the arterioles increases the total Salt and Water—An Important Means for peripheral resistance, thereby raising the arterial pressure, Long- Term Control of Arterial Pressure as demonstrated at the bottom of Figure 19- 9. Also, the mild constriction of the veins promotes increased venous Angiotensin II causes the kidneys to retain both salt and return of blood to the heart, thereby helping the heart water in two major ways: pump against the increasing pressure. 1. Angiotensin II acts directly on the kidneys to cause The second principal means whereby angiotensin II salt and water retention. increases the arterial pressure is decreased excretion of salt 2. Angiotensin II stimulates the adrenal glands to secrete and water by the kidneys due to stimulation of aldoste- aldosterone, and the aldosterone in turn increases salt rone secretion, as well as direct effects on the kidneys. The and water reabsorption by the kidney tubules. salt and water retention by the kidneys slowly increases Thus, whenever excess amounts of angiotensin II the extracellular fluid volume, which then increases the circulate in the blood, the entire long- term renal–body arterial pressure during subsequent hours and days. This fluid mechanism for arterial pressure control automati- long- term effect, through the direct and indirect actions cally becomes set to a higher arterial pressure level than of angiotensin II on the kidneys, is even more powerful normal. than the acute vasoconstrictor mechanism in eventually Mechanisms of the Direct Renal Effects of Angiotensin raising the arterial pressure. II to Cause Renal Retention of Salt and Water. Angio- Rapidity and Intensity of the tensin has several direct renal effects that make the kid- Vasoconstrictor Pressure Response to the neys retain salt and water. One major effect is to constrict Renin- Angiotensin System the renal arterioles, especially the glomerular efferent ar- terioles, thereby diminishing blood flow through the kid- Figure 19- 10 shows an experiment demonstrating the neys. The slow flow of blood reduces the pressure in the effect of hemorrhage on the arterial pressure under two peritubular capillaries, which increases reabsorption of separate conditions: (1) with the renin-a ngiotensin sys- fluid from the tubules. Angiotensin II also has important tem functioning; and (2) after blocking the system with direct actions on the tubular cells to increase tubular re- a renin- blocking antibody. Note that after hemorrhage— absorption of sodium and water, as discussed in Chapter enough to cause acute decrease
