Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


on the tubular cells to increase tubular re- a renin- blocking antibody. Note that after hemorrhage— absorption of sodium and water, as discussed in Chapter enough to cause acute decrease of the arterial pressure 28. The combined effects of angiotensin II can sometimes to 50 mm Hg—the arterial pressure rose back to 83 mm decrease urine output to less than one- fifth normal. Hg when the renin- angiotensin system was functional. Conversely, it rose to only 60 mm Hg when the renin- Angiotensin II Increases Kidney Salt and Water angiotensin system was blocked. This phenomenon shows Retention by Stimulating Aldosterone. Angiotensin that the renin-a ngiotensin system is powerful enough to II is also one of the most powerful stimulators of aldos- return the arterial pressure at least halfway back to normal terone secretion by the adrenal glands, as we shall dis- within a few minutes after severe hemorrhage. Therefore, cuss in relation to body fluid regulation in Chapter 30 237 )gH mm( erusserp lairetrA UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation and in relation to adrenal gland function in Chapter 78. Role of the Renin- Angiotensin System in Therefore, when the renin- angiotensin system becomes Maintaining a Normal Arterial Pressure activated, the rate of aldosterone secretion usually also Despite Large Variations in Salt Intake increases; an important subsequent function of aldoster- One of the most important functions of the renin- one is to cause marked increase in sodium reabsorption angiotensin system is to allow a person to ingest very by the kidney tubules, thus increasing the total body ex- small or very large amounts of salt without causing major tracellular fluid sodium and, as already explained, extra- changes in extracellular fluid volume or arterial pressure. cellular fluid volume. Thus, both the direct effect of an- This function is explained by Figure 19- 12, which shows giotensin II on the kidneys and its effect acting through that the initial effect of increased salt intake is to elevate aldosterone are important in long- term arterial pressure the extracellular fluid volume, which tends to elevate the control. arterial pressure. Multiple effects of increased salt intake, including small increases in arterial pressure and pressure- Quantitative Analysis of Arterial Pressure Changes independent effects, reduce the rate of renin secretion and Caused by Angiotensin II. Figure 19- 11 shows a quanti- angiotensin II formation, which then helps eliminate the tative analysis of the effect of angiotensin in
