Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of renin secretion and Caused by Angiotensin II. Figure 19- 11 shows a quanti- angiotensin II formation, which then helps eliminate the tative analysis of the effect of angiotensin in arterial pres- additional salt with minimal increases in extracellular fluid sure control. This figure shows two renal function curves, volume or arterial pressure. Thus, the renin-a ngiotensin as well as a line depicting a normal level of sodium intake. The left- hand renal function curve is that measured in dogs system is an automatic feedback mechanism that helps whose renin-a ngiotensin system had been blocked by an maintain the arterial pressure at or near the normal level, ACE inhibitor drug that blocks the conversion of angioten- even when salt intake is increased. When salt intake is sin I to angiotensin II. The right- hand curve was measured decreased below normal, exactly opposite effects take place. in dogs infused continuously with angiotensin II at a level To emphasize the efficacy of the renin- angiotensin about 2.5 times the normal rate of angiotensin formation in system in controlling arterial pressure, when the system the blood. Note the shift of the renal output curve toward functions normally, the pressure usually rises no more higher pressure levels under the influence of angiotensin II. than 4 to 6 mm Hg in response to as much as a 100- fold This shift is caused by the direct effects of angiotensin II on increase in salt intake (Figure 19-1 3). Conversely, when the kidney and the indirect effect acting through aldoster- the usual suppression of angiotensin formation is pre- one secretion, as explained earlier. vented due to continuous infusion of small amounts of Finally, note the two equilibrium points, one for zero angiotensin showing an arterial pressure level of 75 mm angiotensin II so that blood levels cannot decrease, the Hg, and one for elevated angiotensin showing a pressure same increase in salt intake may cause the pressure to level of 115 mm Hg. Therefore, the effect of angiotensin to rise by 40 mm Hg or more (see Figure 19-13). When salt cause renal retention of salt and water can have a powerful intake is reduced to as low as one- tenth normal, arterial effect in promoting chronic elevation of the arterial pres- pressure barely changes as long as the renin- angiotensin sure. system functions normally. However, when angiotensin II Angiotensin levels in the blood Increased salt
