Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as salt intake is reduced (see 1 Figure 19-1 3). Thus, the renin- angiotensin system is per- 0 0 4 8 12 haps the body’s most powerful system for accommodat- Days ing wide variations in salt intake with minimal changes in Figure 19- 14. Effect of placing a constricting clamp on the renal arterial pressure. artery of one kidney after the other kidney has been removed. Note the changes in systemic arterial pressure, renal artery pressure distal HYPERTENSION CAUSED BY RENIN- to the clamp, and rate of renin secretion. The resulting hypertension is called one- kidney Goldblatt hypertension. SECRETING TUMOR OR RENAL ISCHEMIA Occasionally, a tumor of the renin- secreting JG cells One- Kidney Goldblatt Hypertension. When one kid- occurs and secretes large quantities of renin, caus- ney is removed, and a constrictor is placed on the renal ing formation of large amounts of angiotensin II. In all artery of the remaining kidney, as shown in Figure 19- patients in whom this phenomenon has occurred, severe 14, the immediate effect is greatly reduced pressure in the hypertension has developed. Also, when large amounts renal artery beyond the constrictor, as demonstrated by of angiotensin II are infused continuously for days or the dashed curve in the figure Then, within seconds or weeks into animals, similar severe long- term hyperten- minutes, the systemic arterial pressure begins to rise and sion develops. continues to rise for several days. The pressure usually We have already noted that angiotensin II can increase rises rapidly for the first hour or so, and this effect is fol- the arterial pressure in two ways: lowed by a slower additional rise during the next several 1. By constricting the arterioles throughout the entire days. When the systemic arterial pressure reaches its new body, thereby increasing the total peripheral resist- stable pressure level, the renal arterial pressure distal to ance and arterial pressure; this effect occurs within the constriction (the dashed curve in the figure) will have seconds after one begins to infuse large amounts of returned almost all the way back to normal. The hyper- angiotensin II. tension produced in this way is called one- kidney Gold- 2. By causing the kidneys to retain salt and water; over blatt hypertension in honor of Harry Goldblatt, who first a period of days, even moderate amounts of angio- studied the important quantitative features of hyperten- tensin II can cause causes hypertension
