Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hypertension in honor of Harry Goldblatt, who first a period of days, even moderate amounts of angio- studied the important quantitative features of hyperten- tensin II can cause causes hypertension through its sion caused by renal artery constriction. renal actions, the principal cause of the long- term The early rise in arterial pressure in Goldblatt hyper- elevation of arterial pressure. tension is caused by the renin-a ngiotensin vasoconstrictor 239 ekatni muidoS erusserp lairetra naeM )yad/qEm( )gH mm( )gH mm( erusserP lamroN X UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation mechanism. That is, because of poor blood flow through the remaining kidney mass also to retain salt and water. the kidney after acute constriction of the renal artery, One of the most common causes of renal hypertension, large quantities of renin are secreted by the kidney, as especially in older persons, is this patchy ischemic kidney demonstrated by the lowermost curve in Figure 19- 14, disease. and this action increases angiotensin II and aldosterone levels in the blood. The angiotensin II, in turn, raises the Other Types of Hypertension Caused by Combinations of Volume Loading and Vasoconstriction arterial pressure acutely. The secretion of renin rises to a peak in about 1 or 2 hours but returns nearly to normal in Hypertension in the Upper Part of the Body Caused by 5 to 7 days because the renal arterial pressure by that time Coarctation of the Aorta. One out of every few thousand has also risen back to normal, so the kidney is no longer babies is born with pathological constriction or blockage ischemic. of the aorta at a point beyond the aortic arterial branches The second rise in arterial pressure is caused by reten- to the head and arms but proximal to the renal arteries, a condition called coarctation of the aorta. When this oc- tion of salt and water by the constricted kidney, which is curs, blood flow to the lower body is carried by multiple also stimulated by angiotensin II and aldosterone. In 5 to 7 small collateral arteries in the body wall, with much vascu- days, the body fluid volume increases enough to raise the lar resistance between the upper aorta and lower aorta. As arterial pressure to its new sustained level. The quantita- a consequence, the arterial pressure in the upper part of the tive value of this sustained pressure level is determined body may be 40% to
