Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


new sustained level. The quantita- a consequence, the arterial pressure in the upper part of the tive value of this sustained pressure level is determined body may be 40% to 50% higher than that in the lower body. by the degree of constriction of the renal artery. That is, The mechanism of this upper body hypertension is al- the aortic pressure must rise enough so that renal arterial most identical to that of one-k idney Goldblatt hyperten- pressure distal to the constrictor is high enough to cause sion. That is, when a constrictor is placed on the aorta normal urine output. above the renal arteries, the blood pressure in both kidneys A similar scenario occurs in patients with stenosis of falls at first, renin is secreted, angiotensin and aldosterone the renal artery of a single remaining kidney, as some- are formed, and hypertension occurs in the upper body. The arterial pressure in the lower body at the level of the times occurs after a person receives a kidney transplant. kidneys rises approximately to normal, but high pressure Also, functional or pathological increases in resistance persists in the upper body. The kidneys are no longer is- of the renal arterioles, due to atherosclerosis or exces- chemic, and thus secretion of renin and formation of angi- sive levels of vasoconstrictors, can cause hypertension otensin and aldosterone return to nearly normal. Likewise, through the same mechanisms as constriction of the main in coarctation of the aorta, the arterial pressure in the lower renal artery. body is usually almost normal, whereas the pressure in the upper body is far higher than normal. Two-K idney Goldblatt Hypertension. Hypertension also Role of Autoregulation in Hypertension Caused by can result when the artery to only one kidney is con- Aortic Coarctation. A significant feature of hypertension stricted while the artery to the other kidney is normal. caused by aortic coarctation is that blood flow in the arms, The constricted kidney secretes renin and also retains salt where the pressure may be 40% to 60% above normal, is and water because of decreased renal arterial pressure in almost exactly normal. Also, blood flow in the legs, where the pressure is not elevated, is almost exactly normal. How this kidney. Then, the “normal” opposite kidney retains could this be, with the pressure in the upper body 40% to salt and water because of the renin produced by the is-
