Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


kidney. Then, the “normal” opposite kidney retains could this be, with the pressure in the upper body 40% to salt and water because of the renin produced by the is- 60% greater than in the lower body? There are no differ- chemic kidney. This renin causes increased formation of ences in vasoconstrictor substances in the blood of the up- angiotensin II and aldosterone, both of which circulate to per and lower body because the same blood flows to both the opposite kidney and cause it also to retain salt and areas. Likewise, the nervous system innervates both areas water. Thus, both kidneys—but for different reasons—be- of the circulation similarly, so there is no reason to believe come salt and water retainers. Consequently, hyperten- that there is a difference in nervous control of the blood sion develops. vessels. The main reason is that long- term autoregulation The clinical counterpart of two- kidney Goldblatt develops so nearly completely that the local blood flow con- hypertension occurs when there is stenosis of a single trol mechanisms have compensated almost 100% for the renal artery—for example, caused by atherosclerosis—in differences in pressure. The result is that in both the high- pressure area and low- pressure area, the local blood flow a person who has two kidneys. is controlled by local autoregulatory mechanisms almost exactly in accord with the needs of the tissue and not in Hypertension Caused by Diseased Kidneys That accord with the level of the pressure. Secrete Renin Chronically. Often, patchy areas of one or Hypertension in Preeclampsia (Toxemia of Pregnancy). both kidneys are diseased and become ischemic because A syndrome called preeclampsia (also called toxemia of of local vascular constrictions or infarctions, whereas pregnancy) develops in approximately 5% to 10% of expect- other areas of the kidneys are normal. When this situa- ant mothers. One of the manifestations of preeclampsia tion occurs, almost identical effects occur as in the two- is hypertension that usually subsides after delivery of the kidney type of Goldblatt hypertension. That is, the patchy baby. Although the precise causes of preeclampsia are not ischemic kidney tissue secretes renin, which, in turn—by completely understood, ischemia of the placenta and sub- acting through the formation of angiotensin II—causes sequent release by the placenta of toxic factors are believed 240 Chapter 19 Role of the Kidneys in Long-T erm Control of Arterial Pressure and in Hypertension to play a role
