Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


release by the placenta of toxic factors are believed 240 Chapter 19 Role of the Kidneys in Long-T erm Control of Arterial Pressure and in Hypertension to play a role in causing many of the manifestations of this ment of the hypertension, the sympathetic nervous system disorder, including hypertension in the mother. Substances is considerably more active than in normal rats. In the later released by the ischemic placenta, in turn, cause dysfunc- stages of this type of hypertension, structural changes have tion of vascular endothelial cells throughout the body, in- been observed in the nephrons of the kidneys: (1) increased cluding the blood vessels of the kidneys. This endothelial preglomerular renal arterial resistance; and (2) decreased dysfunction decreases release of nitric oxide and other vaso- permeability of the glomerular membranes. These struc- dilator substances, causing vasoconstriction, decreased tural changes could also contribute to the long- term con- rate of fluid filtration from the glomeruli into the renal tu- tinuance of the hypertension. In other strains of hyperten- bules, impaired renal pressure natriuresis, and the develop- sive rats, impaired renal function also has been observed. ment of hypertension. In humans, several different gene mutations have been Another pathological abnormality that may contribute identified that can cause hypertension. These forms of hy- to hypertension in preeclampsia is thickening of the kid- pertension are called monogenic hypertension because they ney glomerular membranes (perhaps caused by an auto- are caused by mutation of a single gene. An interesting fea- immune process), which also reduces the glomerular fluid ture of these genetic disorders is that they all cause impaired filtration rate. For obvious reasons, the arterial pressure kidney function, either by increased resistance of the renal level required to cause normal formation of urine becomes arterioles or by excessive salt and water reabsorption by the elevated, and the long- term level of arterial pressure be- renal tubules. In some cases, the increased reabsorption is comes correspondingly elevated. These patients are espe- due to gene mutations that directly increase the transport cially prone to extra degrees of hypertension when they of sodium or chloride in the renal tubular epithelial cells. In have excess salt intake. other cases, the gene mutations cause increased synthesis Neurogenic Hypertension. Acute neurogenic hyperten- or activity of hormones that stimulate renal tubular salt and sion can be caused by strong stimulation of the sympathetic water reabsorption. Thus, in all monogenic hypertensive
