Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Acute neurogenic hyperten- or activity of hormones that stimulate renal tubular salt and sion can be caused by strong stimulation of the sympathetic water reabsorption. Thus, in all monogenic hypertensive nervous system. For example, when a person becomes ex- disorders discovered thus far, the final common pathway to cited for any reason or during states of anxiety, the sym- hypertension appears to be impaired kidney function. Mo- pathetic system becomes excessively stimulated, peripheral nogenic hypertension, however, is rare, and all the known vasoconstriction occurs everywhere in the body, and acute forms together account for less than 1% of cases of human hypertension ensues. hypertension. Another type of acute neurogenic hypertension occurs when the nerves leading from the baroreceptors are cut or PRIMARY (ESSENTIAL) HYPERTENSION when the tractus solitarius is destroyed in each side of the medulla oblongata. These are the areas where the nerves About 90% to 95% of all people who have hypertension from the carotid and aortic baroreceptors connect in the are said to have primary hypertension, also referred to as brain stem. The sudden cessation of normal nerve signals essential hypertension by many clinicians. These terms from the baroreceptors has the same effect on the nervous simply mean that the hypertension is of unknown origin, in pressure control mechanisms as a sudden reduction of the arterial pressure in the aorta and carotid arteries. That is, contrast to the forms of hypertension that are secondary loss of the normal inhibitory effect on the vasomotor center to known causes, such as renal artery stenosis or mono- caused by normal baroreceptor nervous signals allows the genic forms of hypertension. vasomotor center suddenly to become extremely active and In most patients, excess weight gain and a sedentary life- the mean arterial pressure to increase from 100 mm Hg to style appear to play a major role in causing primary hyper- as high as 160 mm Hg. The pressure returns to nearly nor- tension. Most patients with hypertension are overweight, mal within about 2 days because the response of the vaso- and studies of different populations have suggested that motor center to the absent baroreceptor signal fades away, excess adiposity may account for as much as 65% to 75% which is called central resetting of the baroreceptor pressure of the risk for developing primary hypertension. Clinical control mechanism. Therefore, the neurogenic hyperten- studies have clearly shown the value of weight loss for
