Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


central resetting of the baroreceptor pressure of the risk for developing primary hypertension. Clinical control mechanism. Therefore, the neurogenic hyperten- studies have clearly shown the value of weight loss for sion caused by sectioning the baroreceptor nerves is mainly reducing blood pressure in most patients with hyperten- an acute type of hypertension, not a chronic type. The sympathetic nervous system also plays an important sion, and clinical guidelines for treating hypertension rec- role in some forms of chronic hypertension, in large part by ommend increased physical activity and weight loss as a activation of the renal sympathetic nerves. For example, ex- first step in treating most patients with hypertension. cess weight gain and obesity often lead to activation of the The following characteristics of primary hyperten- sympathetic nervous system, which in turn stimulates the sion, among others, are caused by excess weight gain and renal sympathetic nerves, impairs renal pressure natriure- obesity: sis, and causes chronic hypertension. These abnormalities 1. Cardiac output is increased in part because of the appear to play a major role in a large percentage of patients additional blood flow required for the extra adipose with primary (essential) hypertension, as discussed later. tissue. However, blood flow in the heart, kidneys, Genetic Causes of Hypertension. Spontaneous heredi- gastrointestinal tract, and skeletal muscle also in- tary hypertension has been observed in several strains of creases with weight gain because of increased met- animals, including different strains of rats and rabbits and abolic rate and growth of the organs and tissues in at least one strain of dogs. In the strain of rats that has been studied to the greatest extent, the Okamoto spontaneously response to their increased metabolic demands. As hypertensive rat, there is evidence that in early develop- the hypertension is sustained for many months and 241 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation years, total peripheral vascular resistance may be Normal increased. Salt-insensitive 2. Sympathetic nerve activity, especially in the kidneys, 6 Salt-sensitive is increased in overweight patients. The causes of 5 increased sympathetic activity in obese persons are not fully understood, but studies have suggested 4 High intake E B B1 that hormones such as leptin that are released from fat cells may directly stimulate multiple regions of 3 the hypothalamus, which in turn have an excitatory Normal Essential 2 hypertension influence on the vasomotor centers of the brain me- dulla. There is also evidence for
