Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


regions of 3 the hypothalamus, which in turn have an excitatory Normal Essential 2 hypertension influence on the vasomotor centers of the brain me- dulla. There is also evidence for reduced sensitivity Normal intake D A 1 of arterial baroreceptors in buffering increases in C arterial pressure, as well as activation of chemore- 0 ceptors in obese persons, especially in those who 0 50 100 150 also have obstructive sleep apnea. Arterial pressure (mm Hg) 3. Angiotensin II and aldosterone levels are in- Figure 19- 15. Analysis of arterial pressure regulation in (1) salt- creased in many obese patients. This increase may insensitive essential hypertension and (2) salt-s ensitive essential hy- pertension. (Modified from Guyton AC, Coleman TG, Young DB, be caused partly by increased sympathetic nerve et al: Salt balance and long-t erm blood pressure control. Annu Rev stimulation, which increases renin release by the Med 31:15, 1980.) kidneys and therefore formation of angiotensin II, which in turn stimulates the adrenal gland to se- crete aldosterone. sodium- loading renal function curves because the arterial 4. The renal-p ressure natriuresis mechanism is im- pressure in each case is increased very slowly, over many paired, and the kidneys will not excrete adequate days or weeks, by gradually increasing the level of sodium amounts of salt and water unless the arterial pres- intake. The sodium-l oading type of curve can be deter- sure is high or kidney function is somehow improved. mined by increasing the level of sodium intake to a new If mean arterial pressure in the essential hyperten- level every few days and then waiting for the renal output sive person is 150 mm Hg, acute reduction of mean of sodium to come into balance with the intake and, at arterial pressure to the normal value of 100 mm Hg the same time, recording the changes in arterial pressure. (but without otherwise altering renal function ex- When this procedure is used in patients with essen- cept for the decreased pressure) will cause almost tial hypertension, two types of curves, shown at the right total anuria. The person will then retain salt and in Figure 19- 15, can be recorded; one is called (1) salt- water until the pressure rises back to the elevated insensitive hypertension and the other (2) salt- sensitive value of 150 mm Hg. Chronic reductions in arterial hypertension. Note in both cases that the curves are pressure
