Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to the elevated insensitive hypertension and the other (2) salt- sensitive value of 150 mm Hg. Chronic reductions in arterial hypertension. Note in both cases that the curves are pressure with effective antihypertensive therapies, shifted to the right, to a higher pressure level than for however, usually do not cause marked salt and wa- people with normal arterial pressure. In the case of the ter retention by the kidneys because these therapies person with salt- insensitive essential hypertension, the also improve renal pressure natriuresis, as discussed arterial pressure does not increase significantly when later. changing from a normal salt intake to a high salt intake. Experimental studies in obese animals and obese However, in patients who have salt- sensitive essential patients have suggested that impaired renal pressure hypertension, the high salt intake significantly exacer- natriuresis in obesity hypertension is caused mainly by bates the hypertension. increased renal tubular reabsorption of salt and water Two additional points should be emphasized. First, due to increased sympathetic nerve activity and increased salt sensitivity of blood pressure is not an all-or-none levels of angiotensin II and aldosterone. However, if finding—it is quantitative, with some individuals being hypertension is not effectively treated, there may also be more salt- sensitive than others. Second, salt sensitivity of vascular damage in the kidneys that can reduce glomeru- blood pressure is not a fixed characteristic; instead, blood lar filtration rate and increase the severity of hyperten- pressure usually becomes more salt sensitive as a person sion. Eventually, uncontrolled hypertension associated ages, especially after 50 or 60 years of age, when the num- with obesity and associated metabolic disorders can lead ber of functions units (nephrons) in the kidneys begins to to severe vascular injury and complete loss of kidney decrease gradually. function. The reason for the difference between salt- insensitive essential hypertension and salt- sensitive hypertension is presumably related to structural or functional differences Graphic Analysis of Arterial Pressure Control in Essential in the kidneys of these two types of hypertensive patients. Hypertension. Figure 19- 15 is a graphic analysis of es- For example, salt- sensitive hypertension may occur with sential hypertension. The curves of this figure are called different types of chronic renal disease because of the 242 tuptuo dna ekatni tlaS )lamron ×( Chapter 19 Role of the Kidneys in Long-T erm Control of Arterial Pressure and in Hypertension gradual loss of nephrons or because of normal
