Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


control mechanisms at different time intervals after the onset of a ferent vasodilators act in one of the following ways: (1) disturbance to the arterial pressure. Note especially the near-i nfinite by inhibiting sympathetic nervous signals to the kidneys gain (∞) of the renal body fluid pressure control mechanism that oc- or by blocking the action of the sympathetic transmit- curs after a few weeks’ time. CNS, Central nervous system. (Modified ter substance on the renal vasculature and renal tubules; from Guyton AC: Arterial Pressure and Hypertension. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1980.) (2) by directly relaxing the smooth muscle of the renal vasculature; or (3) by blocking the action of the renin- angiotensin- aldosterone system on the renal vasculature Figure 19- 16 shows the approximate immediate (sec- or renal tubules. onds and minutes) and long- term (hours and days) con- Drugs that reduce the reabsorption of salt and water trol responses, expressed as feedback gain, of eight arterial by the renal tubules include, in particular, drugs that block pressure control mechanisms. These mechanisms can be active transport of sodium through the tubular wall; this divided into three groups: (1) those that react rapidly, blockage in turn also prevents the reabsorption of water, within seconds or minutes; (2) those that respond over an as explained earlier in the chapter. These natriuretic or intermediate time period—that is, minutes or hours; and diuretic drugs are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 32. (3) those that provide long- term arterial pressure regula- tion for days, months, and years. SUMMARY OF INTEGRATED Arterial Pressure Control Mechanisms That Act With- MULTIFACETED SYSTEMS FOR ARTERIAL PRESSURE REGULATION in Seconds or Minutes. The rapidly acting pressure control mechanisms are almost entirely acute nervous It is clear that arterial pressure is regulated not by a single reflexes or other autonomic nervous system responses. pressure controlling system but instead by several inter- Note in Figure 19- 16 the three mechanisms that show related systems, each of which performs a specific func- responses within seconds: (1) the baroreceptor feedback tion. For example, when a person bleeds so severely that mechanism; (2) the central nervous system ischemic the pressure falls suddenly, two problems confront the mechanism; and (3) the chemoreceptor mechanism. Not pressure control system. The first is survival; the arterial only do these mechanisms begin to react within seconds, pressure must be rapidly returned to a high enough level but they are
