Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


control system. The first is survival; the arterial only do these mechanisms begin to react within seconds, pressure must be rapidly returned to a high enough level but they are also powerful. After any acute fall in pressure, that the person can live through the acute episode. The as might be caused by severe hemorrhage, the nervous second is to return the blood volume and arterial pressure mechanisms combine to cause the following: (1) constric- eventually to their normal levels so that the circulatory tion of the veins and transfer of blood into the heart; (2) system can reestablish full normality, not merely back to increased heart rate and contractility of the heart to pro- the levels required for survival. vide greater pumping capability by the heart; and (3) con- In Chapter 18, we saw that the first line of defense striction of most peripheral arterioles. All these effects against acute changes in arterial pressure is the nervous occur almost instantly to raise the arterial pressure back control system. In this chapter, we have emphasized a into a survival range. second line of defense achieved mainly by kidney mecha- When the pressure suddenly rises too high, as might nisms for the long- term control of arterial pressure. How- occur in response to a rapid transfusion of excess blood, ever, there are other pieces to the puzzle. Figure 19- 16 the same control mechanisms operate in the reverse direc- helps put these pieces together. tion, again returning the pressure back toward normal. 243 erusserp lamitpo ta niag kcabdeef mumixaM emit siht ta erusserp ni egnahc etucA UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Arterial Pressure Control Mechanisms That Act After Especially important is the interaction of the renin- Many Minutes. Several pressure control mechanisms angiotensin system with the aldosterone and renal fluid exhibit significant responses only after a few minutes fol- mechanisms. For example, a person’s salt intake varies lowing an acute arterial pressure change. Three of these tremendously from one day to another. We have seen in mechanisms, shown in Figure 19- 16, are as follows: (1) this chapter that salt intake can decrease to as little as one- the renin-a ngiotensin vasoconstrictor mechanism; (2) tenth normal or can increase to 10 to 15 times normal stress relaxation of the vasculature; and (3) shift of fluid and yet the regulated level of the mean arterial pressure through the tissue capillary walls
