Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


10 to 15 times normal stress relaxation of the vasculature; and (3) shift of fluid and yet the regulated level of the mean arterial pressure through the tissue capillary walls in and out of the circula- will change only a few mm Hg if the renin- angiotensin- tion to readjust the blood volume as needed. aldosterone system is fully operative. However, without We have already described at length the role of the a functional renin-a ngiotensin- aldosterone system, blood renin- angiotensin vasoconstrictor system to provide pressure becomes very sensitive to changes in salt intake. a semiacute means for increasing the arterial pressure Thus, arterial pressure control begins with the life- when necessary. The stress relaxation mechanism is saving measures of the nervous pressure controls, then demonstrated by the following example. When the pres- continues with the sustaining characteristics of the inter- sure in the blood vessels becomes too high, they become mediate pressure controls and, finally, is stabilized at the stretched more and more for minutes or hours; as a result, long- term pressure level by the renal–body fluid mecha- the pressure in the vessels falls toward normal. This con- nism. This long- term mechanism, in turn, has multiple tinuing stretch of the vessels, called stress relaxation, can interactions with the renin- angiotensin-a ldosterone sys- serve as an intermediate- term pressure “buffer.” tem, the nervous system, and several other factors that The capillary fluid shift mechanism means simply that provide special blood pressure control capabilities for whenever capillary pressure falls too low, fluid is absorbed special purposes. from the tissues through the capillary membranes and into the circulation, thus building up the blood volume Bibliography and increasing the pressure in the circulation. Conversely, Acelajado MC, Hughes ZH, Oparil S, Calhoun DA: Treatment of resist- when the capillary pressure rises too high, fluid is lost out ant and refractory hypertension. Circ Res 124:1061, 2019. of the circulation into the tissues, thus reducing the blood Brands MW: Chronic blood pressure control. Compr Physiol 2:2481, volume, as well as virtually all the pressures throughout 2012. the circulation. Coffman TM: The inextricable role of the kidney in hypertension. J Clin Invest 124:2341, 2014. These three intermediate mechanisms mostly become Colafella KMM, Denton KM: Sex- specific differences in hypertension activated within 30 minutes to several hours. During this and associated cardiovascular disease. Nat Rev Nephrol 14:185, time, the nervous mechanisms usually become less and 2018.
