Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Evaluation, and Management of High Blood sure leads within minutes to an increase in aldosterone Pressure in Adults: Executive Summary: A Report of the American secretion and, over the next hour or days, this effect plays College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on an important role in modifying the pressure control char- Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension 71:1269, 2018. acteristics of the renal–body fluid mechanism. 244 CHAPTER 2 0 Cardiac Output, Venous Return, and Their Regulation Cardiac output is the quantity of blood pumped into the Effect of Age on Cardiac Output. Figure 20- 1 shows aorta each minute by the heart. This is also the quantity of the cardiac output, expressed as cardiac index, at differ- blood that flows through the circulation. Because cardiac ent ages. The cardiac index rises rapidly to a level greater output is the sum of the blood flow to all the tissues of the than 4 L/min/m2 at age 10 years and declines to about 2.4 body, it is one of the most important factors to consider in L/min/m2 at age 80 years. We explain later in this chapter relation to function of the cardiovascular system. that the cardiac output is regulated throughout life almost Venous return is equally important because it is the directly in proportion to overall metabolic activity. There- quantity of blood flowing from the veins into the right fore, the declining cardiac index is indicative of declining atrium each minute. The venous return and the cardiac activity and/or declining muscle mass with age. output must equal each other except for a few heartbeats when blood is temporarily stored in or removed from the CONTROL OF CARDIAC OUTPUT BY heart and lungs. VENOUS RETURN—FRANK- STARLING MECHANISM OF THE HEART NORMAL VALUES FOR CARDIAC Although heart function is obviously crucial in determin- OUTPUT AT REST AND DURING ing cardiac output, the various factors of the peripheral ACTIVITY circulation that affect flow of blood into the heart from the veins, called venous return, are normally the primary Cardiac output varies widely with the level of activity of controllers of cardiac output. the body. The following factors, among others, directly The main reason why peripheral factors are usually so affect cardiac output: (1) the basic level of body metabo- important in controlling cardiac output is that the heart lism; (2) whether the person is exercising; (3) the person’s has a built- in mechanism that
