Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


basic level of body metabo- important in controlling cardiac output is that the heart lism; (2) whether the person is exercising; (3) the person’s has a built- in mechanism that normally allows it to pump age; and (4) the size of the body. automatically the amount of blood that flows from the For young healthy men, resting cardiac output averages veins into the right atrium. This mechanism, called the about 5.6 L/min. For women, this value is about 4.9 L/min. Frank- Starling law of the heart, was discussed in Chapter When one considers the factor of age as well—because 9. Basically, this law states that when increased quanti- with increasing age, body activity and mass of some tis- ties of blood flow into the heart, the increased volume sues (e.g., skeletal muscle) diminish—the average cardiac of blood stretches the walls of the heart chambers. As a output for the resting adult, in round numbers, is often result of the stretch, the cardiac muscle contracts with stated to be about 5 L/min. However, cardiac output var- increased force, and this action ejects the extra blood that ies considerably among healthy men and women depend- has entered from the systemic circulation. Therefore, the ing on muscle mass, adiposity, physical activity, and other blood that flows into the heart is automatically pumped factors that influence metabolic rate and nutritional needs without delay into the aorta and flows again through the of the tissues. circulation. Cardiac Index Another important factor, discussed in Chapters 10 and 18, is that stretching the heart causes an increased heart rate. Experiments have shown that the cardiac output increases Stretch of the sinus node in the wall of the right atrium has approximately in proportion to the surface area of the body. a direct effect on the rhythmicity of the node to increase the Therefore, cardiac output is frequently stated in terms of the cardiac index, which is the cardiac output per square heart rate as much as 10% to 15%. In addition, the stretched meter of body surface area. The average person who weighs right atrium initiates a nervous reflex called the Bainbridge 70 kilograms has a body surface area of about 1.7 square reflex, passing first to the vasomotor center of the brain and meters, which means that the normal average cardiac index then back to the heart by way of the sympathetic nerves and for adults
