Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to each tissue’s metab- Figure 20- 3. Effect of increasing levels of exercise to increase car- olism. For example, local blood flow almost always diac output (red solid line) and oxygen consumption (blue dashed increases when tissue oxygen consumption increases; this line). (Modified from Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac Output and Its Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: effect is demonstrated in Figure 20- 3 for different lev- WB Saunders, 1973.) els of exercise. Note that at each increasing level of work output during exercise, oxygen consumption and cardiac output increase in parallel to each other. output control: Under many conditions, the long- term To summarize, cardiac output is usually determined cardiac output level varies reciprocally with changes in by the sum of all the various factors throughout the body total peripheral vascular resistance as long as the arterial that control local blood flow. All the local blood flows pressure is unchanged. Note in Figure 20- 4 that when summate to form the venous return, and the heart auto- the total peripheral resistance is exactly normal (at the matically pumps this returning blood back into the arter- 100% mark in the figure), the cardiac output is also nor- ies to flow around the system again. mal. Then, when the total peripheral resistance increases above normal, the cardiac output falls; conversely, when Cardiac Output Varies Inversely With Total Peripheral the total peripheral resistance decreases, the cardiac out- Resistance When Arterial Pressure Is Unchanged. Fig- put increases. One can easily understand this phenom- ure 20- 3 is the same as Figure 19- 5. It is repeated here enon by reconsidering one of the forms of Ohm’s law, as to illustrate an extremely important principle in cardiac expressed in Chapter 14: 246 )2m/nim/L( xedni caidraC )2m/nim/L( xedni caidraC )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( noitpmusnoc negyxO Chapter 20 Cardiac Output, Venous Return, and Their Regulation 25 20 200 Hypereffective 150 C ar 15 Normal diac 10 100 output Hypoeffective 50 5 0 0 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 −4 0 +4 +8 Total peripheral resistance Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) (% of normal) Figure 20- 5. Cardiac output curves for the normal heart and for Figure 20- 4. Chronic effect of different levels of total peripheral hypoeffective and hypereffective hearts. (Modified from Guyton AC, resistance on cardiac output, showing a reciprocal relationship be- Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac Output
