Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


different levels of total peripheral hypoeffective and hypereffective hearts. (Modified from Guyton AC, resistance on cardiac output, showing a reciprocal relationship be- Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac Output and Its tween total peripheral resistance and cardiac output. AV, Atrioven- Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1973.) tricular. (Modified from Guyton AC: Arterial Pressure and Hyperten- sion. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1980.) Nervous Excitation Can Increase Heart Pumping. Arterial pressure In Chapter 9, we saw that a combination of sympathet- Cardiac output= Total peripheral resistancee ic stimulation and parasympathetic inhibition does two things to increase the pumping effectiveness of the heart: Thus, any time the long- term level of total peripheral (1) it greatly increases the heart rate—sometimes, in resistance changes (but no other functions of the circula- young people, from the normal level of 72 beats/min up to tion change), the cardiac output changes quantitatively in 180 to 200 beats/min—and (2) it increases the strength of exactly the opposite direction. heart contraction (called increased contractility) to twice its normal strength. Combining these two effects, maxi- Limits for the Cardiac Output mal nervous excitation of the heart can raise the plateau There are definite limits to the amount of blood that the level of the cardiac output curve to almost twice the pla- heart can pump, which can be expressed quantitatively in teau of the normal curve, as shown by the 25- L/min level the form of cardiac output curves. of the uppermost curve in Figure 20- 5. Figure 20- 5 demonstrates the normal cardiac output curve, showing the cardiac output per minute at each level Heart Hypertrophy Can Increase Pumping Effectiveness. of right atrial pressure. This is one type of cardiac func- A long- term increased workload, but not so much excess tion curve, which was discussed in Chapter 9. Note that load that it damages the heart, causes the heart muscle to the plateau level of this normal cardiac output curve is increase in mass and contractile strength in the same way about 13 L/min, 2.5 times the normal cardiac output of that heavy exercise causes skeletal muscles to hypertrophy. about 5 L/min. This means that the normal human heart, For example, the hearts of marathon runners may be in- functioning without any special stimulation, can pump a creased in mass by 50% to 75%. This factor increases the venous return up to about 2.5 times the normal
