Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be in- functioning without any special stimulation, can pump a creased in mass by 50% to 75%. This factor increases the venous return up to about 2.5 times the normal venous plateau level of the cardiac output curve, sometimes 60% to return before the heart becomes a limiting factor in the 100%, and therefore allows the heart to pump much greater control of cardiac output. than the usual amounts of cardiac output. Shown in Figure 20- 5 are several other cardiac output When one combines nervous excitation of the heart and curves for hearts that are not pumping normally. The upper- hypertrophy, as occurs in marathon runners, the total effect most curves are for hypereffective hearts that are pumping can allow the heart to pump as much 30 to 40 L/min, about better than normal. The lowermost curves are for hypoeffec- 2.5 times the level that can be achieved in the average person. tive hearts that are pumping at levels below normal. This increased level of pumping is one of the most important factors in determining the runner’s running time. Factors That Cause a Hypereffective Heart Factors That Cause a Hypoeffective Heart Two general types of factors that can make the heart a stronger pump than normal are nervous stimulation and Any factor that decreases the heart’s ability to pump hypertrophy of the heart muscle. blood causes hypoeffectivity. Some of the factors that 247 tuptuo caidrac ro erusserp lairetrA )lamron fo %( irebireB stnuhs VA msidioryhtrepyH aimenA esaesid yranomluP esaesid s’tegaP lamroN sgel dna smra htob fo lavomeR msidioryhtopyH )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation can decrease the heart’s ability to pump blood are the Chapter 18, is essential to achieve high cardiac outputs following: when the peripheral tissues dilate their blood vessels to • Increased arterial pressure against which the heart increase the venous return. must pump, such as in severe hypertension • Inhibition of nervous excitation of the heart Effect of Nervous System to Increase Arterial Pressure • Pathological factors that cause abnormal heart During Exercise. During exercise, intense increases in rhythm or rate of heartbeat metabolism in active skeletal muscles cause relaxation • Coronary artery blockage, causing a heart attack of muscle arterioles to allow adequate oxygen and oth- • Valvular heart disease er nutrients needed to sustain muscle contraction. This • Congenital heart disease greatly decreases the total peripheral resistance, which • Myocarditis,
