Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


allow adequate oxygen and oth- • Valvular heart disease er nutrients needed to sustain muscle contraction. This • Congenital heart disease greatly decreases the total peripheral resistance, which • Myocarditis, an inflammation of the heart muscle normally would decrease the arterial pressure as well. • Cardiac hypoxia However, the nervous system immediately compensates. The same brain activity that sends motor signals to the NERVOUS SYSTEM REGULATION OF muscles sends simultaneous signals into the autonomic CARDIAC OUTPUT nervous centers of the brain to excite circulatory activity, causing large vein constriction, increased heart rate, and Importance of Nervous System For Maintaining Ar- increased contractility of the heart. All these changes act- terial Pressure When Peripheral Blood Vessels Are ing together increase the arterial pressure above normal, Dilated and Venous Return and Cardiac Output In- which in turn forces still more blood flow through the ac- crease. Figure 20- 6 shows an important difference in tive muscles. cardiac output control with and without a functioning In summary, when local tissue blood vessels dilate and autonomic nervous system. The solid curves demon- increase venous return and cardiac output above normal, strate the effect in the normal dog of intense dilation of the nervous system plays a key role in preventing the arte- the peripheral blood vessels caused by administering the rial pressure from falling to disastrously low levels. During drug dinitrophenol, which increased the metabolism of exercise, the nervous system goes even further, providing virtually all tissues of the body about fourfold. With nerv- additional signals to raise the arterial pressure above nor- ous control mechanisms intact, dilating all the peripheral mal, which serves to increase the cardiac output an extra blood vessels caused almost no change in arterial pressure 30% to 100%. but increased the cardiac output almost fourfold. How- ever, after autonomic control of the nervous system was Pathologically High or Low Cardiac Outputs blocked, vasodilation of the blood vessels with dinitro- Multiple clinical abnormalities can cause either high or low phenol (dashed curves) then caused a profound fall in ar- cardiac outputs. Some of the more important of these ab- terial pressure to about one- half normal, and the cardiac normal cardiac outputs are shown in Figure 20- 7. output increased only 1.6- fold instead of fourfold. Thus, maintenance of a normal arterial pressure by High Cardiac Output Caused by Reduced Total Peripheral Resistance the nervous system reflexes, by mechanisms explained
