Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


only 1.6- fold instead of fourfold. Thus, maintenance of a normal arterial pressure by High Cardiac Output Caused by Reduced Total Peripheral Resistance the nervous system reflexes, by mechanisms explained in The left side of Figure 20- 7 identifies conditions that cause With nervous control abnormally high cardiac outputs. One of the distinguish- Without nervous control ing features of these conditions is that they all result from 6 Dinitrophenol chronically reduced total peripheral resistance None of 5 them result from excessive excitation of the heart itself, 4 which we will explain subsequently. Let us consider some 3 of the conditions that can decrease the peripheral resist- 2 ance and at the same time increase the cardiac output to 0 above normal. 1. Beriberi. This disease is caused by insufficient quantity 100 of the vitamin thiamine (vitamin B ) in the diet. Lack 1 75 of this vitamin causes diminished ability of the tis- sues to use some cellular nutrients, and the local tissue 50 blood flow control mechanisms in turn cause marked 0 compensatory peripheral vasodilation. Sometimes the 0 10 20 30 total peripheral resistance decreases to as little as half- Minutes normal. Consequently, the long- term levels of venous Figure 20- 6. Experiment in a dog to demonstrate the importance return and cardiac output also may increase to twice the of nervous maintenance of the arterial pressure as a prerequisite for normal value. cardiac output control. Note that with pressure control, the meta- 2. A rteriovenous (AV) fistula (shunt). Earlier, we pointed out bolic stimulant dinitrophenol increased cardiac output greatly; with- that whenever a fistula (also called an AV shunt) occurs out pressure control, the arterial pressure fell, and the cardiac output between a major artery and major vein, large amounts increased very little. (Drawn from experiments by Dr. M. Banet.) 248 tuptuo caidraC erusserp lairetrA )nim/L( )gH mm( Chapter 20 Cardiac Output, Venous Return, and Their Regulation of blood flow directly from the artery into the vein. This (4) cardiac tamponade; and (5) cardiac metabolic derange- also greatly decreases the total peripheral resistance and, ments. The effects of several of these conditions are shown likewise, increases the venous return and cardiac output. on the right in Figure 20- 7, demonstrating the low cardiac 3. Hyperthyroidism. In hyperthyroidism, the metabolism outputs that result. of most tissues of the body becomes greatly increased. When the cardiac output falls so low
