Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


7, demonstrating the low cardiac 3. Hyperthyroidism. In hyperthyroidism, the metabolism outputs that result. of most tissues of the body becomes greatly increased. When the cardiac output falls so low that the tissues Oxygen usage increases, and vasodilator products are throughout the body begin to suffer nutritional deficiency, released from the tissues. Therefore, total peripheral the condition is called cardiac shock. This condition is dis- resistance decreases markedly because of local tissue cussed in Chapter 22 in relationship to cardiac failure. blood flow control reactions throughout the body; con- Decreased Cardiac Output Caused by Noncardiac sequently, venous return and cardiac output often in- Peripheral Factors—Decreased Venous Return. Anything crease to 40% to 80% above normal. that interferes with venous return also can lead to decreased 4. Anemia. In anemia, two peripheral effects greatly de- cardiac output. Some of these factors are as follows: crease total peripheral resistance. One of these effects 1. Decreased blood volume. The most common noncardiac is reduced viscosity of the blood, resulting from the peripheral factor that leads to decreased cardiac output decreased concentration of red blood cells. The other is decreased blood volume, often from hemorrhage. effect is diminished delivery of oxygen to the tissues, Loss of blood may decrease the filling of the vascular which causes local vasodilation. As a consequence, car- system to such a low level that there is not enough blood diac output increases greatly. in the peripheral vessels to create peripheral vascular Any other factor that decreases total peripheral resist- pressures high enough to push the blood back to the ance chronically also increases cardiac output if arterial heart. pressure does not decrease too much. 2. Acute venous dilation. Acute venous dilation results most often when the sympathetic nervous system sud- Low Cardiac Output denly becomes inactive. For example, fainting often Figure 20- 7 shows at the far right several conditions that results from sudden loss of sympathetic nervous sys- cause abnormally low cardiac output. These conditions fall tem activity, which causes the peripheral capacitative into two categories: (1) abnormalities that decrease pump- vessels, especially the veins, to dilate markedly. This ing effectiveness of the heart; and (2) those that decrease dilation decreases the filling pressure of the vascular venous return. system because the blood volume can no longer create Decreased Cardiac Output Caused by Cardiac Factors. adequate pressure in the now flaccid peripheral blood Whenever the heart becomes severely
