Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


return. system because the blood volume can no longer create Decreased Cardiac Output Caused by Cardiac Factors. adequate pressure in the now flaccid peripheral blood Whenever the heart becomes severely damaged, regardless vessels. As a result, the blood pools in the vessels and of the cause, its limited level of pumping may fall below does not return to the heart as rapidly as normal. that needed for adequate blood flow to the tissues. Some 3. Obstruction of the large veins. On rare occasions, the large examples of this condition include the following: (1) severe veins leading into the heart become obstructed, and the coronary blood vessel blockage and consequent myocardial blood in the peripheral vessels cannot flow back into the infarction; (2) severe valvular heart disease; (3) myocarditis; heart. Consequently, the cardiac output falls markedly. 7 200 175 6 150 5 125 4 Control (young adults) 100 Average 45-year-old adult 3 75 2 50 1 25 0 0 Figure 20- 7. Cardiac output in different pathological conditions. The numbers in parentheses indicate the number of patients studied in each condition. AV, Atrioventricular. (Modified from Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac Output and Its Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1973.) 249 tuptuo caidraC )lortnoc fo %( )5( irebireB )33( stnuhs VA )92( msidioryhtrepyH )57( aimenA )12( yteixnA )92( esaesid yranomluP )64( ycnangerP )9( esaesid s’tegaP )803( )stluda gnuoy( lortnoC )74( noisnetrepyH )13( esaesid evlav dliM )22( noitcrafni laidracoyM )4( kcohs dliM )92( esaesid evlav ereveS )4( kcohs citamuarT )7( kcohs caidraC xedni caidraC )2m/nim/L( UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation 4. Decreased tissue mass, especially decreased skeletal shifts the entire cardiac output curve to the right by the muscle mass. With normal aging or with prolonged pe- same amount. This shift occurs because filling the car- riods of physical inactivity, a reduction in the size of the diac chambers with blood requires an extra 2 mm Hg skeletal muscles usually occurs. This reduction, in turn, of right atrial pressure to overcome the increased pres- decreases the total oxygen consumption and blood flow sure on the outside of the heart. Likewise, an increase in needs of the muscles, resulting in decreases in skeletal intrapleural pressure to +2 mm Hg requires a 6 mm Hg muscle blood flow and cardiac output. increase in right atrial pressure from the normal −4 mm 5. Decreased metabolic rate of the tissues. If
