Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Hg requires a 6 mm Hg muscle blood flow and cardiac output. increase in right atrial pressure from the normal −4 mm 5. Decreased metabolic rate of the tissues. If the tissue met- Hg, which shifts the entire cardiac output curve 6 mm abolic rate is reduced, as occurs in skeletal muscle dur- ing prolonged bed rest, the oxygen consumption and Hg to the right. nutrition needs of the tissues will also be lower, which Some factors that can alter the external pressure on the decreases blood flow to the tissues, resulting in reduced heart and thereby shift the cardiac output curve are the cardiac output. Other conditions, such as hypothyroid- following: ism, may also reduce metabolic rate and therefore tissue 1. Cyclical changes of intrapleural pressure during res- blood flow and cardiac output. piration, which are about ±2 mm Hg during normal Regardless of the cause of low cardiac output, whether it breathing but can be as much as ±50 mm Hg during is a peripheral factor or a cardiac factor, if the cardiac out- strenuous breathing put ever falls below the level required for adequate nutrition 2. Breathing against a negative pressure, which shifts of the tissues, the person is said to experience circulatory the curve to a more negative right atrial pressure (to shock. This condition can be lethal within a few minutes to the left). a few hours. Circulatory shock is such an important clinical problem that it is discussed in detail in Chapter 24. 3. Positive- pressure breathing, which shifts the curve to the right 4. Opening the thoracic cage, which increases the in- CARDIAC OUTPUT CURVES USED IN trapleural pressure to 0 mm Hg and shifts the car- QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF CARDIAC diac output curve to the right by 4 mm Hg OUTPUT REGULATION 5. Cardiac tamponade, which means accumulation of a large quantity of fluid in the pericardial cavity Our discussion of cardiac output regulation thus far around the heart with a resultant increase in exter- is adequate for understanding the factors that control nal cardiac pressure and shifting of the curve to the cardiac output in most simple conditions. However, to right understand cardiac output regulation in especially stress- Note in Figure 20- 8 that cardiac tamponade shifts ful situations, such as the extremes of exercise, cardiac the upper parts of the curves farther to the right than failure, and circulatory shock,
