Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


e at t u. o i e co t aa n o sd l rir ua d te e l t ep a p os i d u oec ny t tt f 1 050 Intrapleural pr Nes orsu mr al (e i ntr= a ple– ural5 p. r e 5 s I ns traum plr eurem al p res= sH u re =–g –24 ) m m H Ig ntr apleural pressure = +2 mm Hg Cardiac tamponade Cardiac Output Curves. Figure 20-8 shows the effect –4 0 +4 +8 +12 of changes in external cardiac pressure on the cardiac Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) output curve. The normal external pressure is equal to Figure 20- 8. Cardiac output curves at different levels of intrapleural the normal intrapleural pressure (the pressure in the pressure and different degrees of cardiac tamponade. (Modified from chest cavity), which is about −4 mm Hg. Note in the fig- Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac ure that a rise in intrapleural pressure, to −2 mm Hg, Output and Its Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1973.) 250 )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC Chapter 20 Cardiac Output, Venous Return, and Their Regulation Hypereffective + increased Transitional intrapleural pressure Plateau zone 15 Mean Normal 5 systemic Down slope prf eil sli sn ug re 10 0 –8 –4 0 +4 +8 5 Hypoeffective + reduced intrapleural pressure Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) Figure 20- 10. Normal venous return curve. The plateau is caused by collapse of the large veins entering the chest when the right atrial 0 pressure falls below atmospheric pressure. Note also that venous re- –4 0 +4 +8 +12 turn becomes zero when the right atrial pressure rises to equal the Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) mean systemic filling pressure. Figure 20- 9. Combinations of two major patterns of cardiac output curves showing the effect of alterations in both extracardiac pressure Normal Venous Return Curve and effectiveness of the heart as a pump. (Modified from Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac Output and Its In the same way that the cardiac output curve relates Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1973.) pumping of blood by the heart to right atrial pressure, the venous return curve relates venous return also to right combination of a hypereffective heart and increased in- atrial pressure—that is, the venous flow of blood into the
