Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


atrial pressure, the venous return curve relates venous return also to right combination of a hypereffective heart and increased in- atrial pressure—that is, the venous flow of blood into the trapleural pressure would lead to an increased maximum heart from the systemic circulation at different levels of level of cardiac output due to the increased pumping ca- right atrial pressure. pability of the heart, but the cardiac output curve would The curve in Figure 20-1 0 is the normal venous be shifted to the right (to higher atrial pressures) because return curve. This curve shows that when heart pump- of the increased intrapleural pressure. Thus, by knowing ing capability becomes diminished and causes the right what is happening to the external pressure, and to the ca- atrial pressure to rise, the backward force of the rising pability of the heart as a pump, one can express the mo- atrial pressure on the veins of the systemic circulation mentary ability of the heart to pump blood by a single decreases venous return of blood to the heart. If all cardiac output curve. nervous circulatory reflexes are prevented from acting, venous return decreases to zero when the right atrial pressure rises to about +7 mm Hg. Such a slight rise in VENOUS RETURN CURVES right atrial pressure causes a drastic decrease in venous The entire systemic circulation must be considered before return because any increase in back pressure causes complete analysis of cardiac regulation can be achieved. blood to dam up in the systemic circulation instead of To analyze the function of the systemic circulation exper- returning to the heart. imentally, the heart and lungs were removed from the At the same time that the right atrial pressure is ris- circulation of an animal and replaced with a pump and ing and causing venous stasis, pumping by the heart also artificial oxygenator system. Then, different factors, such approaches zero because of decreasing venous return. as blood volume, vascular resistances, and central venous Both the arterial and venous pressures reach equilibrium pressure in the right atrium, were altered to determine when all flow in the systemic circulation ceases at a pres- how the systemic circulation operates in different circu- sure of 7 mm Hg, which, by definition, is the mean sys- latory states. From these studies, one finds the following temic filling pressure. three principal factors that affect venous return to the heart
