Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Hg, which, by definition, is the mean sys- latory states. From these studies, one finds the following temic filling pressure. three principal factors that affect venous return to the heart from the systemic circulation: Plateau in Venous Return Curve at Negative Atrial 1. Right atrial pressure, which exerts a backward force Pressures Caused by Collapse of the Large Veins. on the veins to impede flow of blood from the veins When the right atrial pressure falls below zero—that is, into the right atrium. below atmospheric pressure—any further increase in ve- 2. Degree of filling of the systemic circulation (meas- nous return almost ceases, and by the time the right atrial ured by the mean systemic filling pressure), which pressure has fallen to about −2 mm Hg, the venous return forces the systemic blood toward the heart (this is reaches a plateau. It remains at this plateau level, even the pressure measured everywhere in the systemic though the right atrial pressure falls to −20 mm Hg, −50 circulation when all flow of blood is stopped, dis- mm Hg or even further. This plateau is caused by collapse cussed in detail later). of the veins entering the chest. Negative pressure in the 3. Resistance to blood flow between the peripheral ves- right atrium sucks the walls of the veins together where sels and the right atrium. they enter the chest, which prevents any additional flow of These factors can all be expressed quantitatively by the blood from the peripheral veins. Consequently, even very venous return curve, as we explain in the next sections. negative pressures in the right atrium cannot increase 251 )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( nruter suoneV UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation venous return significantly above that which exists at a chambers of the heart. Therefore, the capacity of the sys- normal atrial pressure of 0 mm Hg. tem decreases so that at each level of blood volume, the mean circulatory filling pressure is increased. At normal Mean Circulatory Filling Pressure, Mean blood volume, maximal sympathetic stimulation increas- Systemic Filling Pressure—Effects on es the mean circulatory filling pressure from 7 mm Hg to Venous Return about twice that value or about 14 mm Hg. When heart pumping is stopped by shocking the heart Conversely, complete inhibition of the sympathetic with electricity to cause ventricular fibrillation or is nervous system relaxes both the blood vessels and heart, stopped in any other
