Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


shocking the heart Conversely, complete inhibition of the sympathetic with electricity to cause ventricular fibrillation or is nervous system relaxes both the blood vessels and heart, stopped in any other way, flow of blood everywhere in decreasing the mean circulatory filling pressure from the the circulation ceases a few seconds later. Without blood normal value of 7 mm Hg down to about 4 mm Hg. Note flow, the pressures everywhere in the circulation become in Figure 20- 11 how steep the curves are, which means equal. This equilibrated pressure level is called the mean that even slight changes in blood volume or capacity of the circulatory filling pressure. system caused by various levels of sympathetic activity can have large effects on the mean circulatory filling pressure. Increased Blood Volume Raises Mean Circulatory Filling Pressure. The greater the volume of blood in the circula- Mean Systemic Filling Pressure and Relationship to tion, the greater is the mean circulatory filling pressure Mean Circulatory Filling Pressure. The mean systemic because extra blood volume stretches the walls of the filling pressure (Psf) is slightly different from the mean vasculature. The red curve in Figure 20- 11 shows the ap- circulatory filling pressure. It is the pressure measured proximate normal effect of different levels of blood vol- everywhere in the systemic circulation after blood flow ume on the mean circulatory filling pressure. Note that has been stopped by clamping the large blood vessels at at a blood volume of about 4000 ml, the mean circula- the heart, so the pressures in the systemic circulation can tory filling pressure is close to zero because this is the un- be measured independently from those in the pulmonary stressed volume of the circulation but, at a volume of 5000 circulation. The mean systemic filling pressure, although ml, the filling pressure is the normal value of 7 mm Hg. almost impossible to measure in a live animal, is almost Similarly, at still higher volumes, the mean circulatory fill- always nearly equal to the mean circulatory filling pres- ing pressure increases almost linearly. sure, because the pulmonary circulation has less than one-eighth as much capacitance as the systemic circula- Sympathetic Nervous Stimulation Increases Mean tion and only about one-tenth as much blood volume. Circulatory Filling Pressure. The green curve and blue curve in Figure 20- 11 show the effects, respectively, of Effect on Venous Return Curve of Changes in Mean
