Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to which the system is filled, the more difficult it is for blood to flow into the heart. 15 When Pressure Gradient for Venous Return Is Zero There Is No Venous Return. When the right atrial pres- sure rises to equal the Psf, there is no longer any pres- 10 1/ 2 r sure difference between the peripheral vessels and right esist atrium. Consequently, there can no longer be any blood a nc fl H lyo ow lw o wef vr eo e rr m , t hw ap h ne e r n ti hp t eh h e e Pr sra fil ,g hv be t l os as ote r dl is a fll b opa wrc e k s t s out o r t het efh ae hll esr a i p rg r th ot ig n ra cet rsr esi au iv sm ee s-. 5 2 (cid:31)N ro er sm isa tl a r ne cs eis tance e Psf = 7 proportionately, as can be seen by studying any of the ve- nous return curves in Figure 20- 12. That is, the greater 0 the difference between the Psf and right atrial pressure, the –4 0 +4 +8 greater becomes the venous return. Therefore, the differ- Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) ence between these two pressures is called the pressure Figure 20- 13. Venous return curves depicting the effect of altering gradient for venous return. the resistance to venous return. Psf, Mean systemic filling pressure. (Modified from Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physi- Resistance to Venous Return ology: Cardiac Output and Its Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1973.) In the same way that Psf represents a pressure pushing venous blood from the periphery toward the heart, there is also resistance to this venous flow of blood. This is called Effect of Resistance to Venous Return on the Venous the resistance to venous return. Most of the resistance to Return Curve. Figure 20-1 3 demonstrates the effect venous return occurs in the veins, although some occurs of different levels of resistance to venous return on the in the arterioles and small arteries as well. venous return curve, showing that a decrease in this Why is venous resistance so important in determining resistance to half- normal allows twice as much flow of the resistance to venous return? The answer is
