Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a decrease in this Why is venous resistance so important in determining resistance to half- normal allows twice as much flow of the resistance to venous return? The answer is that when blood and, therefore, rotates the curve upward to twice the resistance in the veins increases, blood begins to be as great a slope. Conversely, an increase in resistance dammed up, mainly in the veins themselves. However, to twice normal rotates the curve downward to half as the venous pressure rises very little because the veins are great a slope. highly distensible. Therefore, this rise in venous pressure is Note also that when the right atrial pressure rises to not very effective in overcoming the resistance, and blood equal the Psf, venous return becomes zero at all levels of flow into the right atrium decreases drastically. Conversely, resistance to venous return because there is no pressure when arteriolar and small artery resistances increase, blood gradient to cause flow of blood. Therefore, the highest accumulates in the arteries, which have a capacitance only level to which the right atrial pressure can rise, regardless one thirtieth as great as that of the veins. Therefore, even of how much the heart might fail, is equal to the Psf. slight accumulation of blood in the arteries raises the pres- Combinations of Venous Return Curve Patterns. Fig- sure greatly—30 times as much as in the veins—and this ure 20- 14 shows the effects on the venous return curve high pressure overcomes much of the increased resistance. caused by simultaneous changes in Psf and resistance to Mathematically, it turns out that about two-thirds of the venous return, demonstrating that both these factors can so-c alled resistance to venous return is determined by operate simultaneously. venous resistance, and about one-third is determined by the arteriolar and small artery resistance. ANALYSIS OF CARDIAC OUTPUT Venous return can be calculated by the following AND RIGHT ATRIAL PRESSURE BY formula: SIMULTANEOUS CARDIAC OUTPUT AND VR=Psf−PRA VENOUS RETURN CURVES RVR In the complete circulation, the heart and the systemic in which VR is venous return, Psf is mean systemic filling circulation must operate together. This requirement pressure, PRA is right atrial pressure, and RVR is resis- means that (1) the venous return from the systemic circu- tance to venous return. In the healthy adult, the approxi- lation must equal the cardiac output from the heart and mate values for these
