Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


venous return from the systemic circu- tance to venous return. In the healthy adult, the approxi- lation must equal the cardiac output from the heart and mate values for these are as follows: venous return = 5 (2) the right atrial pressure is the same for the heart and L/min, Psf = 7 mm Hg, right atrial pressure = 0 mm Hg, systemic circulation. and resistance to venous return = 1.4 mm Hg/L/min of Therefore, one can predict the cardiac output and right blood flow. atrial pressure in the following way: 253 )nim/L( nruter suoneV UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation heart and systemic circulation. Therefore, in the normal Normal resistance circulation, the right atrial pressure, cardiac output, and 15 2 (cid:31) resistance venous return are all depicted by point A, called the equi- 1/2 resistance librium point, giving a normal value for cardiac output of 1/3 resistance 5 L/min and a right atrial pressure of 0 mm Hg. 10 Effect of Increased Blood Volume on Cardiac Output. A sudden increase in blood volume of about 20% increas- es the cardiac output to about 2.5 to 3 times normal. An 5 Psf = 10.5 analysis of this effect is shown in Figure 20- 15. Imme- Psf = 10 diately on infusing the large quantity of extra blood, the Psf = 2.3 increased filling of the system causes the Psf to increase Psf = 7 0 to 16 mm Hg, which shifts the venous return curve to –4 0 +4 +8 +12 the right. At the same time, the increased blood volume Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) distends the blood vessels, reducing their resistance and Figure 20- 14. Combinations of the major patterns of venous return thereby reducing the resistance to venous return, which curves showing the effects of simultaneous changes in the mean sys- rotates the curve upward. As a result of these two effects, temic filling pressure (Psf) and in resistance to venous return. (Modi- the venous return curve of Figure 20- 15 is shifted to the fied from Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: right. This new curve equates with the cardiac output Cardiac Output and Its Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB Saun- curve at point B, showing that the cardiac output and ve- ders, 1973.) nous return increase 2.5 to 3 times and that the right atrial pressure rises to about +8 mm Hg. 20
