Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


B, showing that the cardiac output and ve- ders, 1973.) nous return increase 2.5 to 3 times and that the right atrial pressure rises to about +8 mm Hg. 20 Compensatory Effects Initiated in Response to Increased Blood Volume. The greatly increased cardiac output 15 caused by increased blood volume lasts for only a few B minutes because several compensatory effects immedi- ately begin to occur: 10 1. The increased cardiac output increases the capillary pressure so that fluid begins to transude out of the 5 A Psf = 7 Psf = 16 capillaries into the tissues, thereby returning the blood volume toward normal. 2. The increased pressure in the veins causes the veins 0 to continue distending gradually by the mechanism −4 0 +4 +8 +12 +16 called stress- relaxation, especially causing the ve- Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) nous blood reservoirs, such as the liver and spleen, Figure 20- 15. The two solid curves demonstrate an analysis of car- to distend, thus reducing the Psf. diac output and right atrial pressure when the cardiac output (red 3. The excess blood flow through the peripheral tissues line) and venous return (blue line) curves are normal. Transfusion of causes an autoregulatory increase in the peripheral blood equal to 20% of the blood volume causes the venous return vascular resistance, thus increasing the resistance to curve to become the dashed curve. As a result, the cardiac output venous return. and right atrial pressure shift from point A to point B. Psf, Mean systemic filling pressure. These factors cause the Psf to return toward normal and the resistance vessels of the systemic circulation to constrict. Therefore, gradually, over a period of 10 to 40 1. Determine the momentary pumping ability of the minutes, the cardiac output returns almost to normal. heart, and depict this ability in the form of a cardiac output curve. Effect of Sympathetic Stimulation on Cardiac Output. 2. Determine the momentary state of flow from the Sympathetic stimulation affects the heart and systemic systemic circulation into the heart, and depict this circulation: (1) it makes the heart a stronger pump; and (2) state of flow in the form of a venous return curve. in the systemic circulation, it increases the Psf because of 3. Equate these curves against each other, as shown in contraction of the peripheral vessels, especially the veins, Figure 20- 15. and it increases the resistance
