Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the Psf because of 3. Equate these curves against each other, as shown in contraction of the peripheral vessels, especially the veins, Figure 20- 15. and it increases the resistance to venous return. Two curves in the figure depict the normal cardiac out- In Figure 20- 16, the normal cardiac output and put curve (red line) and the normal venous return curve venous return curves are depicted; these equate with (blue line). There is only one point on the graph, point A, each other at point A, which represents a normal venous at which the venous return equals the cardiac output and return, cardiac output of 5 L/min. and right atrial pressure at which the right atrial pressure is the same for both the of 0 mm Hg. Note in the figure that maximal sympathetic 254 )nim/L( nruter suoneV )nim/L( nruter suonev dna tuptuo caidraC Chapter 20 Cardiac Output, Venous Return, and Their Regulation Maximal sympathetic D 20 25 stimulation Moderate sympathetic C 20 stimulation 15 B 15 Normal Spinal anesthesia 10 D 10 C A A 5 5 B 0 −4 0 +4 +8 +12 +16 0 Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) −4 0 +4 +8 +12 Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) Figure 20- 16. Analysis of the effect on cardiac output of (1) moder- ate sympathetic stimulation (from point A to point C), (2) maximal Figure 20- 17. Analysis of successive changes in cardiac output and sympathetic stimulation (point D), and (3) sympathetic inhibition right atrial pressure in a human after a large arteriovenous (AV) fis- caused by total spinal anesthesia (point B). (Modified from Guyton tula is suddenly opened. The stages of the analysis, as shown by the AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac Output equilibrium points, are as follows: A, normal conditions; B, immedi- and Its Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1973.) ately after opening the AV fistula; C, 1 minute or so after the sym- pathetic reflexes have become active; and D, several weeks after the blood volume has increased and the heart has begun to hypertrophy. stimulation (green curves) increases the Psf to 17 mm Hg (Modified from Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physi- (depicted by the point at which the venous return curve ology: Cardiac Output and Its Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB reaches the zero venous return level). Sympathetic stimu- Saunders, 1973.) lation also increases pumping effectiveness
