Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


which the venous return curve ology: Cardiac Output and Its Regulation, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: WB reaches the zero venous return level). Sympathetic stimu- Saunders, 1973.) lation also increases pumping effectiveness of the heart by nearly 100%. As a result, the cardiac output rises from The principal effects are as follows: (a) a sudden and the normal value at equilibrium point A to about double precipitous rotation of the venous return curve up- normal at equilibrium point D, and yet the right atrial ward caused by the large decrease in resistance to pressure hardly changes. Thus, different degrees of sym- venous return when blood is allowed to flow with pathetic stimulation can increase the cardiac output pro- almost no impediment directly from the large arter- gressively to about twice normal for short periods, until ies into the venous system, bypassing most of the other compensatory effects occur within seconds or min- resistance elements of the peripheral circulation; utes to return cardiac output to nearly normal. and (b) a slight increase in the level of the cardiac output curve because opening the fistula decreases Effect of Sympathetic Inhibition on Cardiac Output. the peripheral resistance and allows an acute fall in The sympathetic nervous system can be blocked by in- arterial pressure against which the heart can pump ducing total spinal anesthesia or by using a drug, such as more easily. The net result, depicted by point B, is hexamethonium, that blocks transmission of nerve signals an increase in cardiac output from 5 L/min up to through the autonomic ganglia. The lowermost curves in 13 L/min and an increase in right atrial pressure to Figure 20- 16 show the effect of sympathetic inhibition about +3 mm Hg. caused by total spinal anesthesia, demonstrating the fol- 3. Point C represents the effects about 1 minute later, lowing: (1) the Psf falls to about 4 mm Hg; and (2) the ef- after the sympathetic nerve reflexes have restored fectiveness of the heart as a pump decreases to about 80% the arterial pressure almost to normal and caused of normal. The cardiac output falls from point A to point two other effects: (a) an increase in the Psf (because B, which is a decrease to about 60% of normal. of constriction of all veins and arteries) from 7 to 9 mm Hg, thus shifting the venous return curve 2 Effect of Opening a Large Arteriovenous Fistula.
