Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


60% of normal. of constriction of all veins and arteries) from 7 to 9 mm Hg, thus shifting the venous return curve 2 Effect of Opening a Large Arteriovenous Fistula. Fig- mm Hg to the right; and (b) further elevation of the ure 20- 17 shows various stages of circulatory changes cardiac output curve because of sympathetic nerv- that occur after opening a large AV fistula—that is, after ous excitation of the heart. The cardiac output now making an opening directly between a large artery and a rises to almost 16 L/min, and the right atrial pres- large vein. sure rises to about 4 mm Hg. 1. The two red curves crossing at point A show the 4. Point D shows the effect after several more weeks. normal condition. By this time, the blood volume has increased be- 2. The curves crossing at point B show the circulatory cause the slight reduction in arterial pressure and condition immediately after opening the large fistula. the sympathetic stimulation have both transiently 255 )nim/L( nruter suonev dna tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( nruter suonev dna tuptuo caidraC UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation reduced the kidney output of urine, causing salt oxygen concentration of 160 ml/L of blood, whereas that and water retention. The Psf has now risen to +12 leaving the left heart has an oxygen concentration of 200 mm Hg, shifting the venous return curve another 3 ml/L of blood. From these data, one can calculate that mm Hg to the right. Also, the prolonged increased each liter of blood passing through the lungs absorbs 40 ml workload on the heart has caused the heart muscle of oxygen. to hypertrophy slightly, raising the level of the car- Because the total quantity of oxygen absorbed into the diac output curve still further. Therefore, point D blood from the lungs each minute is 200 ml, dividing 200 shows a cardiac output that is now almost 20 L/min by 40 calculates to a total of 5 liters of blood that must and a right atrial pressure of about 6 mm Hg. pass through the pulmonary circulation each minute to absorb this amount of oxygen. Therefore, the quantity of Other Analyses of Cardiac Output Regulation. blood flowing through the lungs each minute is 5 liters, In Chapter 21, analysis of cardiac output regulation dur- which is also a measure of the cardiac output. Thus, the ing exercise
