Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


through the lungs each minute is 5 liters, In Chapter 21, analysis of cardiac output regulation dur- which is also a measure of the cardiac output. Thus, the ing exercise is presented. In Chapter 22, analyses of cardi- cardiac output can be calculated by the following formula: ac output regulation at various stages of congestive heart failure are discussed. Cardiac output(L min) O absorbed per minute by the lungs(mlmmin) = 2 Arteriovenous Od ifferenc e(mlL of blood) METHODS FOR MEASURING CARDIAC 2 OUTPUT In applying this Fick procedure for measuring cardiac Accurate assessment of cardiac output is vitally impor- output in humans, mixed venous blood is usually obtained tant in modern medical practice, especially in critically through a catheter inserted up the brachial vein of the ill patients or in high-r isk patients undergoing surgery. In forearm, through the subclavian vein, down to the right animal experiments, one can measure the cardiac output atrium and, finally, into the right ventricle or pulmonary using an electromagnetic or ultrasonic flowmeter placed artery. Systemic arterial blood can then be obtained from on the aorta or pulmonary artery to measure cardiac out- any systemic artery in the body. The rate of oxygen absorp- put. In humans, however, cardiac output is usually mea- tion by the lungs is measured by the rate of disappearance sured by indirect methods that do not require surgery. of oxygen from the respired air, using any type of oxygen meter. Pulsatile Output of the Heart Measured by Electromagnetic or Ultrasonic Indicator Dilution Method Flowmeter To measure cardiac output by the indicator dilution Figure 20- 18 shows a recording in a dog of blood flow method, a small amount of indicator, such as a dye, is in the root of the aorta; this recording was made using injected into a large systemic vein or, preferably, into the an electromagnetic flowmeter. It demonstrates that the right atrium. This indicator passes rapidly through the blood flow rises rapidly to a peak during systole and then, right side of the heart, then through the blood vessels of at the end of systole, it reverses for a fraction of a second. the lungs, through the left side of the heart, and finally into This reverse flow causes the aortic valve to close and the the systemic arterial system. The concentration of the dye flow to return to zero. is recorded as the dye passes through
