Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


two separate cardiac outputs by the dilution method. The rectan- from the product of the stroke volume and heart rate. gular areas are the calculated average concentrations of dye in the Thoracic Electrical Bioimpedance Method arterial blood for the durations of the respective extrapolated curves. Impedance cardiography, also known as thoracic elec- rose rapidly to a maximum in about 6 to 7 seconds. After trical bioimpedance, is a noninvasive technology used that, the concentration fell rapidly, but before the concen- to measure changes in total electrical conductivity of tration reached zero, some of the dye had already circu- the thorax as an indirect assessment of hemodynamic lated all the way through some of the peripheral systemic parameters such as cardiac output. This method detects vessels and returned through the heart for a second time. the impedance changes caused by a high- frequency, low- Consequently, the dye concentration in the artery began magnitude current flowing through the thorax between to rise again. For the purpose of calculation, it is neces- additional two pairs of electrodes located outside the sary to extrapolate the early downslope of the curve to the measured segment. Electrical impedance is the opposi- zero point, as shown by the dashed portion of each curve. tion that a circuit presents to a current when a voltage is In this way, the extrapolated time- concentration curve of applied. With each heartbeat, blood volume and veloc- the dye in the systemic artery without recirculation can ity in the aorta change, and the corresponding change be measured in its first portion and estimated reasonably in impedance and its timing are measured and used to accurately in its latter portion. estimate cardiac output. Once the extrapolated time- concentration curve has Although some studies have suggested that imped- been determined, the mean concentration of dye in the ance cardiography may provide reasonable assessments arterial blood for the duration of the curve can then be of cardiac output under some conditions, this method is calculated. For example, in the top example of Figure also subject to several potential sources of error, including 20-2 0, this calculation was done by measuring the area electrical interferences, motion artifacts, fluid accumula- under the entire initial and extrapolated curve and then tion around the heart and in the lungs, and arrhythmias. averaging the concentration of dye for the duration of Some studies have suggested that the average error with
