Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


EXERCISE CONTROL OF SKELETAL MUSCLE BLOOD Strenuous exercise is one of the most stressful conditions FLOW that the normal circulatory system faces because there is such a large mass of skeletal muscle in the body, all of it Decreased Oxygen in Muscle Greatly Enhances Flow. requiring large amounts of blood flow. Also, the cardiac The large increase in muscle blood flow that occurs dur- output often must increase to four to five times normal ing skeletal muscle activity is caused mainly by chemicals in the nonathlete or to six to seven times normal in the released locally that act directly on the muscle arterioles well- trained athlete to satisfy the metabolic needs of the to cause dilation. One of the most important chemical ef- exercising muscles. fects is reduction of the oxygen level in the muscle tissues. When muscles are active, they use oxygen rapidly, thereby SKELETAL MUSCLE BLOOD FLOW RATE decreasing the oxygen concentration in the tissue fluids. This in turn causes local arteriolar vasodilation because During rest, skeletal muscle blood flow averages 3 to 4 ml/ min/100 g of muscle. During extreme exercise in the well- Rhythmic exercise conditioned athlete, this blood flow can increase 25- to 40 50-f old, rising to 100 to 200 ml/min/100 g of muscle. Peak blood flows as high as 400 ml/min/100 g of muscle have been reported for thigh muscles of endurance- trained athletes. 20 Blood Flow During Muscle Contractions. Figure 21- 1 shows a record of blood flow changes in a calf muscle of a leg during strong rhythmic muscular exercise. Note that Calf the flow increases and decreases with each muscle con- flow 0 traction. At the end of the contractions, the blood flow 0 10 16 18 remains high for a few seconds but then returns to normal Minutes during the next few minutes. Figure 21- 1. Effects of muscle exercise on blood flow in the calf of The cause of the lower flow during the muscle contrac- a leg during strong rhythmic contraction. The blood flow was much tion phase of exercise is compression of the blood vessels less during contractions than between contractions. (Modified from by the contracted muscle. During strong tetanic contrac- Barcroft H, Dornhorst AC: The blood flow through the human calf tion, which causes sustained compression of the blood during rhythmic exercise. J Physiol 109:402, 1949.) 259 )nim/lm 001×( wolf doolB UNIT IV UNIT
