Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The blood flow through the human calf tion, which causes sustained compression of the blood during rhythmic exercise. J Physiol 109:402, 1949.) 259 )nim/lm 001×( wolf doolB UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation low oxygen levels cause the blood vessels to relax and Effects of Sympathetic Activation because oxygen deficiency causes release of vasodilator substances. Adenosine may be an important vasodilator At the onset of exercise, signals are transmitted not only substance, but experiments have shown that even large from the brain to the muscles to cause muscle contrac- amounts of adenosine infused directly into a muscle ar- tion but also into the vasomotor center to initiate sym- tery cannot increase blood flow to the same extent as dur- pathetic discharge in many other tissues. Simultaneously, ing intense exercise, and it cannot sustain vasodilation in the parasympathetic signals to the heart are attenuated. skeletal muscle for more than about 2 hours. Therefore, three major circulatory effects result: Fortunately, even after the muscle blood vessels have 1. The heart is stimulated to a greatly increased become insensitive to the vasodilator effects of adenosine, heart rate and increased pumping strength as a other vasodilator factors continue to maintain increased result of the sympathetic drive to the heart plus capillary blood flow as long as the exercise continues. release of the heart from normal parasympathetic These factors include the following: (1) potassium ions; inhibition. (2) adenosine triphosphate (ATP); (3) lactic acid; and (4) 2. Many of the arterioles of the peripheral circulation carbon dioxide. We still do not know quantitatively how are strongly contracted, except for the arterioles in much of a role each of these factors plays in increasing the active muscles, which are strongly vasodilated muscle blood flow during muscle activity; this subject was by the local vasodilator effects in the muscles, as discussed in additional detail in Chapter 17. noted earlier. Thus, the heart is stimulated to sup- ply the increased blood flow required by the mus- Nervous Control of Muscle Blood Flow. In addition to cles, while at the same time blood flow through local tissue vasodilator mechanisms, skeletal muscles are most nonmuscular areas of the body is temporarily provided with sympathetic vasoconstrictor nerves and, in reduced, thereby “lending” blood supply to the mus- some species of animals, sympathetic vasodilator nerves cles. This process accounts for as much as 2 L/min as well. of extra blood flow to the
