Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood supply to the mus- some species of animals, sympathetic vasodilator nerves cles. This process accounts for as much as 2 L/min as well. of extra blood flow to the muscles, which is ex- The sympathetic vasoconstrictor nerve fibers secrete ceedingly important when considering a person norepinephrine at their nerve endings. When maxi- running for his or her life, when even a fractional mally activated, this mechanism can decrease blood increase in running speed may make the difference flow through resting muscles to as little as one- half to between life and death. Two of the peripheral circu- one- third normal. This vasoconstriction is of physiologic latory systems, the coronary and cerebral systems, importance in attenuating decreases of arterial pressure are spared this vasoconstrictor effect because both in circulatory shock and during other periods of stress, these circulatory areas have poor vasoconstrictor when it may even be necessary to increase blood pressure. innervation—fortunately so, because both the heart In addition to the norepinephrine secreted at the sym- and brain are as essential to exercise as the skeletal pathetic vasoconstrictor nerve endings, the medullae of muscles. the two adrenal glands also secrete increased amounts 3. The muscle walls of the veins and other capacita- of norepinephrine plus even more epinephrine into the tive areas of the circulation are contracted pow- circulating blood during strenuous exercise. The circulat- erfully, which greatly increases the mean systemic ing norepinephrine acts on the muscle vessels to cause filling pressure. As we learned in Chapter 20, this a vasoconstrictor effect similar to that caused by direct effect is one of the most important factors in pro- sympathetic nerve stimulation. The epinephrine, how- moting the increase in venous return of blood to ever, often has a slight vasodilator effect because epi- the heart and, therefore, in increasing the cardiac nephrine excites more of the beta- adrenergic receptors output. of the vessels, which are vasodilator receptors, in con- Sympathetic Stimulation May Increase trast to the alpha vasoconstrictor receptors excited espe- Arterial Pressure During Exercise cially by norepinephrine. These receptors are discussed in Chapter 61. An important effect of increased sympathetic stimula- tion in exercise is to increase the arterial pressure. This CIRCULATORY READJUSTMENTS DURING increased arterial pressure results from multiple stimula- EXERCISE tory effects, including the following: (1) vasoconstriction of the arterioles and small arteries in most tissues of the Three major effects occur during exercise that are
