Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from multiple stimula- EXERCISE tory effects, including the following: (1) vasoconstriction of the arterioles and small arteries in most tissues of the Three major effects occur during exercise that are body except the brain and active muscles, including the essential for the circulatory system to supply the tre- heart; (2) increased pumping activity by the heart; and (3) mendous blood flow required by the muscles: (1) sym- a great increase in mean systemic filling pressure caused pathetic nervous system activation in many tissues with mainly by venous contraction. These effects, working consequent stimulatory effects on the circulation; (2) together, almost always increase the arterial pressure dur- increase in arterial pressure; and (3) increase in cardiac ing exercise. This increase can be as little as 20 mm Hg output. or as much as 80 mm Hg, depending on the conditions 260 Chapter 21 Muscle Blood Flow and Cardiac Output During Exercise under which the exercise is performed. When a person 25 performs exercise under tense conditions but uses only B 20 a few muscles, the sympathetic nervous response still occurs. In the few active muscles, vasodilation occurs, but 15 elsewhere in the body the effect is mainly vasoconstric- tion, often increasing the mean arterial pressure to as high 10 as 170 mm Hg. Such a condition might occur in a person standing on a ladder and nailing with a hammer on the 5 A ceiling above. The tenseness of the situation is obvious. Conversely, when a person performs massive whole-b ody 0 exercise, such as running or swimming, the increase in arte- (cid:31)4 0 +4 +8 +12 +16 +20 +24 rial pressure is often only 20 to 40 mm Hg. This lack of a large Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) increase in pressure results from the extreme vasodilation Figure 21- 2. Graphic analysis of change in cardiac output, venous that occurs simultaneously in large masses of active muscle. return, and right atrial pressure with the onset of strenuous exercise. Black curves, Normal circulation. Red curves, heavy exercise. Why Is Increased Arterial Pressure During Exercise Important? When muscles are stimulated maximally in The increased level of the cardiac output curve is easy a laboratory experiment, but without allowing the arte- to understand. It results almost entirely from sympathetic rial pressure to rise, muscle blood flow seldom rises more stimulation of the heart, which causes the following: (1) than about eightfold. Yet, we
