Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


It results almost entirely from sympathetic rial pressure to rise, muscle blood flow seldom rises more stimulation of the heart, which causes the following: (1) than about eightfold. Yet, we know from studies of mara- increased heart rate, up to as high as 170 to 190 beats/ thon runners that muscle blood flow can increase from as min; and (2) increased strength of contraction of the heart little as 1 L/min for the whole body during rest to more to as much as twice normal. Without this increased level than 20 L/min during maximal activity. Therefore, it is of cardiac function, the increase in cardiac output would clear that muscle blood flow can increase much more than be limited to the plateau level of the normal heart, which that which occurs in this simple laboratory experiment. would be a maximum increase of cardiac output of only What is the difference? Mainly, the arterial pressure rises about 2.5- fold rather than the 4-fold increase that can during normal exercise. Let us assume, for example, that commonly be achieved by the untrained runner and the the arterial pressure rises by 30% during heavy exercise. 7-fold increase that can be achieved in some marathon This 30% increase causes 30% more force to push blood runners. through the muscle tissue vessels. However, this is not the Now study the venous return curves. If no change only important effect—the extra pressure also stretches occurred from the normal venous return curve, the car- the walls of the vessels, and this effect, along with the lo- diac output could hardly rise at all in exercise because cally released vasodilators and higher blood pressure, may the upper plateau level of the normal venous return increase muscle total flow to more than 20 times normal. curve is only 6 L/min. Yet, two important changes do occur: Importance of Increased Cardiac Output 1. The mean systemic filling pressure rises at the on- During Exercise set of heavy exercise. This effect results partly from Many different physiologic effects occur at the same time the sympathetic stimulation that contracts the veins during exercise to increase cardiac output approximately and other capacitative parts of the circulation. In in proportion to the degree of exercise. In fact, the abil- addition, tensing of the abdominal and other skel- ity of the circulatory system to provide increased cardiac etal muscles of the body compresses many of
