Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


exercise. In fact, the abil- addition, tensing of the abdominal and other skel- ity of the circulatory system to provide increased cardiac etal muscles of the body compresses many of the output for delivery of oxygen and other nutrients to the internal vessels, thus providing more compression muscles during exercise is equally as important as the of the entire capacitative vascular system and caus- strength of the muscles themselves in setting the limit for ing a still greater increase in the mean systemic fill- continued muscle work. For example, marathon runners ing pressure. During maximal exercise, these two who can increase their cardiac outputs the most are gen- effects together can increase the mean systemic fill- erally the ones who have record- breaking running times. ing pressure from a normal level of 7 mm Hg to as high as 30 mm Hg. Graphic Analysis of Changes in Cardiac Output 2. The slope of the venous return curve rotates up- During Heavy Exercise. Figure 21- 2 shows a graphic ward. This upward rotation is caused by decreased analysis of the large increase in cardiac output that occurs resistance in virtually all the blood vessels in active during heavy exercise. The cardiac output and venous muscle tissue, which also causes resistance to ve- return curves crossing at point A represent the normal nous return to decrease, thus increasing the upward circulation, and the curves crossing at point B represent slope of the venous return curve. heavy exercise. Note that the great increase in cardiac Therefore, the combination of increased mean sys- output requires significant changes in both the cardiac temic filling pressure and decreased resistance to venous output curve and the venous return curve, as follows. return raises the entire level of the venous return curve. 261 dna tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( nruter suonev UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Aorta 300 Pulmonary artery 200 Left coronary artery 100 Right coronary artery Left circumflex branch 0 Left anterior Systole Diastole descending Figure 21- 4. Phasic flow of blood through the coronary capillaries branch of the human left ventricle during cardiac systole and diastole (as extrapolated from measured flows in dogs). Figure 21- 3. Coronary arteries. Most of the coronary venous blood flow from the In response to the changes in both the venous return left ventricular muscle returns to the right atrium of the curve and cardiac output curve, the new equilibrium heart
