Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the In response to the changes in both the venous return left ventricular muscle returns to the right atrium of the curve and cardiac output curve, the new equilibrium heart by way of the coronary sinus, which is about 75% of point in Figure 21- 2 for cardiac output and right atrial the total coronary blood flow. On the other hand, most pressure is now point B, in contrast to the normal level at of the coronary venous blood from the right ventricu- point A. Note especially that the right atrial pressure has lar muscle returns through small anterior cardiac veins hardly changed, having risen only 1.5 mm Hg. In fact, in a that flow directly into the right atrium, not by way of the person with a strong heart, the right atrial pressure often coronary sinus. A very small amount of coronary venous falls below normal during very heavy exercise because blood also flows back into the heart through very minute of the greatly increased sympathetic stimulation of the thebesian veins, which empty directly into all chambers heart. In contrast, even a moderate level of exercise may of the heart. cause marked increases in right atrial pressure in patients with weakened hearts. NORMAL CORONARY BLOOD FLOW AVERAGES 5% OF CARDIAC OUTPUT CORONARY CIRCULATION The normal coronary blood flow in the resting person About one-third of all deaths in industrialized countries averages 70 ml/min/100 g of heart weight, or about of the Western world result from coronary artery disease, 225 ml/min, which is about 4% to 5% of the total cardiac and most older adults have at least some impairment of output. the coronary artery circulation. For this reason, under- During strenuous exercise, the heart in the young adult standing normal and pathological physiology of the coro- increases its cardiac output fourfold to sevenfold, and it nary circulation is one of the most important subjects in pumps this blood against a higher than normal arterial medicine. pressure. Consequently, the work output of the heart under severe conditions may increase 6-fold to 9-fold. PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF THE At the same time, the coronary blood flow increases CORONARY BLOOD SUPPLY 3-fold to 4-fold to supply the extra nutrients needed by the heart. This increase is not as much as the increase in Figure 21- 3 shows the heart and its coronary blood sup- workload, which means that the ratio of energy expendi-
