Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This increase is not as much as the increase in Figure 21- 3 shows the heart and its coronary blood sup- workload, which means that the ratio of energy expendi- ply. Note that the main coronary arteries lie on the surface ture by the heart to coronary blood flow increases. Thus, of the heart, and smaller arteries then penetrate from the the efficiency of cardiac utilization of energy increases surface into the cardiac muscle mass. It is almost entirely to make up for the relative deficiency of coronary blood through these arteries that the heart receives its nutri- supply. tive blood supply. Only the inner one- tenth millimeter of the endocardial surface can obtain significant nutrition Cardiac Muscle Compression Causes Phasic Changes directly from the blood inside the cardiac chambers, so in Coronary Blood Flow During Systole and Diastole. this source of muscle nutrition is minuscule. Figure 21- 4 shows the changes in blood flow through The left coronary artery supplies mainly the anterior the nutrient capillaries of the left ventricular coronary and left lateral portions of the left ventricle, whereas the system in ml/min in the heart during systole and dias- right coronary artery supplies most of the right ventricle, tole, as extrapolated from studies in experimental ani- as well as the posterior part of the left ventricle in 80% to mals. Note from this diagram that the coronary capil- 90% of people. lary blood flow in the left ventricle muscle falls to a low 262 )nim/lm( wolf doolb yranoroC Chapter 21 Muscle Blood Flow and Cardiac Output During Exercise Epicardial coronary arteries Oxygen Demand Is a Major Factor in Local Coronary Blood Flow Regulation. Blood flow in the coronary ar- teries usually is regulated almost exactly in proportion to Cardiac the need of the cardiac musculature for oxygen. Normally, muscle about 70% of the oxygen in the coronary arterial blood is removed as the blood flows through the heart muscle. Subendocardial arterial plexus Because not much oxygen is left, little additional oxy- Figure 21- 5. Diagram of the epicardial, intramuscular, and subendo- gen can be supplied to the heart musculature unless the cardial coronary vasculature. coronary blood flow increases. Fortunately, the coronary value during systole, which is opposite to flow in vascular blood flow increases almost in direct proportion to any beds elsewhere in the body. The reason for this phenom- additional metabolic consumption of oxygen by the
