Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to flow in vascular blood flow increases almost in direct proportion to any beds elsewhere in the body. The reason for this phenom- additional metabolic consumption of oxygen by the heart. enon is strong compression of the intramuscular blood The exact means whereby increased oxygen consump- vessels by the left ventricular muscle during systolic con- tion causes coronary dilation has not been determined. traction. Many researchers have speculated that a decrease in oxy- During diastole, the cardiac muscle relaxes and no lon- gen concentration in the heart causes vasodilator sub- ger obstructs blood flow through the left ventricular mus- stances to be released from the muscle cells and that these cle capillaries, so blood flows rapidly during all of diastole. substances dilate the arterioles. A substance with great Blood flow through the coronary capillaries of the vasodilator propensity is adenosine. In the presence of right ventricle also undergoes phasic changes during the very low concentrations of oxygen in the muscle cells, a cardiac cycle but, because the force of contraction of the large proportion of the cell’s ATP degrades to adenosine right ventricular muscle is far less than that of the left monophosphate (AMP). Small portions of this substance ventricular muscle, the inverse phasic changes are only are then further degraded and release adenosine to the partial, in contrast to those in the left ventricular muscle. tissue fluids of the heart muscle, with a resultant increase in local coronary blood flow. After adenosine causes vaso- Epicardial Versus Subendocardial Coronary Blood dilation, much of it is reabsorbed into the cardiac cells to Flow—Effect of Intramyocardial Pressure. Figure 21- be reused for production of ATP. 5 demonstrates the special arrangement of the coronary Adenosine is not the only vasodilator product that vessels at different depths in the heart muscle, showing has been identified; others include adenosine phosphate on the outer surface epicardial coronary arteries which compounds, potassium ions, hydrogen ions, carbon diox- supply most of the muscle. Smaller intramuscular arteries ide, prostaglandins, and nitric oxide. The mechanisms of derived from the epicardial arteries penetrate the mus- coronary vasodilation during increased cardiac activity cle, supplying the needed nutrients. Lying immediately have not been fully explained by adenosine. Pharmaco- beneath the endocardium is a plexus of subendocardial logic agents that block or partially block the vasodilator arteries. During systole, blood flow through the subendo- effect of adenosine do not completely prevent coronary cardial plexus
