Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


plexus of subendocardial logic agents that block or partially block the vasodilator arteries. During systole, blood flow through the subendo- effect of adenosine do not completely prevent coronary cardial plexus of the left ventricle, where the intramuscu- vasodilation caused by increased heart muscle activity. lar coronary vessels are compressed greatly by ventricular Studies in skeletal muscle have also shown that the con- muscle contraction, tends to be reduced. However, the tinued infusion of adenosine maintains vascular dilation extra vessels of the subendocardial plexus normally com- for only 1 to 3 hours, yet muscle activity still dilates the pensate for this reduction. Later in the chapter, we explain local blood vessels, even when the adenosine can no lon- how this peculiar difference between blood flow in the ger dilate them. Therefore, the other vasodilator mecha- epicardial and subendocardial arteries plays an important nisms listed earlier should be remembered. role in certain types of coronary ischemia. Nervous Control of Coronary Blood Flow Stimulation of the autonomic nerves to the heart can CONTROL OF CORONARY BLOOD FLOW affect coronary blood flow directly and indirectly. The Local Muscle Metabolism Is the Primary direct effects result from action of the nervous transmit- Controller of Coronary Flow ter substances acetylcholine from the vagus nerves and norepinephrine from the sympathetic nerves on the coro- Blood flow through the coronary system is regulated nary vessels. The indirect effects result from secondary mostly by local arteriolar vasodilation in response to the changes in coronary blood flow caused by increased or nutritional needs of cardiac muscle. That is, whenever decreased activity of the heart. the vigor of cardiac contraction is increased, the rate of The indirect effects, which are mostly opposite to the coronary blood flow also increases. Conversely, decreased direct effects, play a far more important role in the normal heart activity is accompanied by decreased coronary flow. control of coronary blood flow. Thus, sympathetic stimu- This local regulation of coronary blood flow is similar to lation, which releases norepinephrine from the sympa- that which occurs in many other tissues of the body, espe- thetic nerves and epinephrine, as well as norepinephrine cially in the skeletal muscles. from the adrenal medullae, increases both heart rate and 263 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation heart contractility and increases the rate of metabolism of amounts of lactic acid in the cardiac tissue. This is prob- the heart. In turn, the increased
