Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


UNIT IV The Circulation heart contractility and increases the rate of metabolism of amounts of lactic acid in the cardiac tissue. This is prob- the heart. In turn, the increased metabolism of the heart ably one of the causes of cardiac pain in cardiac ischemic sets off local blood flow regulatory mechanisms for dilat- conditions, as discussed later in this chapter. ing the coronary vessels and blood flow increases approx- As is true in other tissues, more than 95% of the meta- imately in proportion to the metabolic needs of the heart bolic energy liberated from foods is used to form ATP in muscle. In contrast, vagal stimulation, with its release of the mitochondria. This ATP in turn acts as the conveyer acetylcholine, slows the heart and has a slightly depressive of energy for cardiac muscular contraction and other cel- effect on heart contractility. These effects decrease car- lular functions. In severe coronary ischemia, the ATP diac oxygen consumption and, therefore, indirectly con- degrades first to adenosine diphosphate and then to AMP strict the coronary arteries. and adenosine. Because the cardiac muscle cell membrane is slightly permeable to adenosine, much of this agent can Direct Effects of Nervous Stimuli on Coronary diffuse from the muscle cells into the circulating blood. Vasculature. The distribution of parasympathetic (vagal) The released adenosine is believed to be one of the nerve fibers to the ventricular coronary system is not very substances that causes dilation of the coronary arterioles great. However, the acetylcholine released by parasympa- during coronary hypoxia, as discussed earlier. However, thetic stimulation has a direct effect to dilate the coronary loss of adenosine also has a serious cellular consequence. arteries. Within as little as 30 minutes of severe coronary ischemia, Much more extensive sympathetic innervation of the as occurs after a myocardial infarct, about half of the coronary vessels occurs. In Chapter 61, we see that the adenine base can be lost from the affected cardiac mus- sympathetic transmitter substances norepinephrine and cle cells. Furthermore, this loss can be replaced by new epinephrine can have vascular constrictor or vascular synthesis of adenine at a rate of only 2%/hour. Therefore, dilator effects, depending on the presence or absence of once a serious bout of coronary ischemia has persisted constrictor or dilator receptors in the blood vessel walls. for 30 minutes or longer, relief of the ischemia may be too The constrictor receptors are
