Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of coronary ischemia has persisted constrictor or dilator receptors in the blood vessel walls. for 30 minutes or longer, relief of the ischemia may be too The constrictor receptors are called alpha receptors, and late to prevent injury and death of the cardiac cells. This the dilator receptors are called beta receptors. Both alpha is almost certainly one of the major causes of cardiac cel- and beta receptors exist in the coronary vessels. In gen- lular death during myocardial ischemia. eral, the epicardial coronary vessels have a preponderance of alpha receptors, whereas the intramuscular arteries ISCHEMIC HEART DISEASE may have a preponderance of beta receptors. Therefore, sympathetic stimulation can, at least theoretically, cause The most common cause of death in the Western coun- slight overall coronary constriction or dilation, but usu- tries is ischemic heart disease, which results from insuf- ally constriction. In some people, the alpha vasoconstric- ficient coronary blood flow. About 35% of people in the tor effects seem to be disproportionately severe, and these United States aged 65 years and older die of this cause. people can have vasospastic myocardial ischemia during Some deaths occur suddenly as a result of acute coronary periods of excess sympathetic drive, often with resultant occlusion or fibrillation of the heart, whereas other deaths anginal pain. occur slowly over a period of weeks to years as a result of Metabolic factors, especially myocardial oxygen con- progressive weakening of the heart pumping process. In sumption, are the major controllers of myocardial blood this chapter, we discuss acute coronary ischemia caused flow. Whenever the direct effects of nervous stimulation by acute coronary occlusion and myocardial infarction. In reduce coronary blood flow, the metabolic control of cor- Chapter 22, we discuss congestive heart failure, which is onary flow usually overrides the direct coronary nervous frequently caused by slowly increasing coronary ischemia effects within seconds. and weakening of the cardiac muscle. Atherosclerosis Is a Major Cause of Ischemic Heart SPECIAL FEATURES OF CARDIAC MUSCLE METABOLISM Disease. A frequent cause of diminished coronary blood flow is atherosclerosis. The atherosclerotic process is dis- The basic principles of cellular metabolism, discussed cussed in connection with lipid metabolism in Chapter in Chapters 68 through 73, apply to cardiac muscle the 69. Briefly, in people who have a genetic predisposition to same as for other tissues, but some quantitative differ- atherosclerosis, who are overweight or obese and have a ences exist.
