Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


69. Briefly, in people who have a genetic predisposition to same as for other tissues, but some quantitative differ- atherosclerosis, who are overweight or obese and have a ences exist. Most importantly, under resting conditions, sedentary lifestyle, or who have high blood pressure and cardiac muscle normally consumes more fatty acids than damage to the endothelial cells of the coronary blood ves- carbohydrates to supply its energy (≈ 70% of the energy is sels, large quantities of cholesterol gradually become de- derived from fatty acids). However, as is also true of other posited beneath the endothelium at many points in arter- tissues, under anaerobic or ischemic conditions, cardiac ies throughout the body. Gradually, these areas of deposit metabolism must call on anaerobic glycolysis mechanisms are invaded by fibrous tissue and frequently become calci- for energy. However, glycolysis consumes large quantities fied. The net result is the development of atherosclerotic of the blood glucose and, at the same time, forms large plaques, which actually protrude into the vessel lumens 264 Chapter 21 Muscle Blood Flow and Cardiac Output During Exercise and block or partially block blood flow. A common site for development of atherosclerotic plaques is the first few Artery centimeters of the major coronary arteries. Acute Coronary Artery Occlusion Acute occlusion of a coronary artery usually occurs in a Vein person who already has underlying atherosclerotic coro- nary heart disease but almost never occurs in a person with a normal coronary circulation. Acute occlusion can have various causes, two of which are the following: 1. The atherosclerotic plaque can cause a local blood clot called a thrombus that occludes the artery. The thrombus usually occurs where the arteriosclerotic plaque has broken through the endothelium, thus coming into direct contact with the flowing blood. Because the plaque presents an unsmooth surface, Artery blood platelets adhere to it, fibrin is deposited, and red blood cells become trapped to form a blood clot that grows until it occludes the vessel. Occasionally, Vein the clot breaks away from its attachment on the ath- Figure 21- 6. Minute anastomoses in the normal coronary arterial erosclerotic plaque and flows to a more peripheral system. branch of the coronary arterial tree, where it blocks the artery at that point. A thrombus that flows along the artery in this way and occludes the vessel more of coronary occlusion when the area of muscle involved is distally is called
