Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that point. A thrombus that flows along the artery in this way and occludes the vessel more of coronary occlusion when the area of muscle involved is distally is called a coronary embolus. not too large. 2. Many clinicians believe that local muscular spasm of When atherosclerosis constricts the coronary arteries a coronary artery also can occur. The spasm might slowly over a period of many years, rather than suddenly, result from direct irritation of the smooth muscle collateral vessels can develop at the same time, while the of the arterial wall by the edges of an arterioscle- atherosclerosis becomes more and more severe. Therefore, rotic plaque, or it might result from local nervous the person may never experience an acute episode of car- reflexes that cause excess coronary vascular wall diac dysfunction. Eventually, however, the sclerotic process contraction. The spasm may then lead to secondary develops beyond the limits of even the collateral blood sup- thrombosis of the vessel. ply to provide the needed blood flow, and sometimes, the collateral blood vessels themselves develop atherosclerosis. Lifesaving Value of Collateral Circulation in the When this occurs, the heart muscle becomes severely lim- Heart. The degree of damage to the heart muscle caused ited in its work output, and the heart cannot pump even by slowly developing atherosclerotic constriction of the normally required amounts of blood flow. This is one of coronary arteries or by sudden coronary occlusion is the most common causes of cardiac failure in older people. determined to a great extent by the degree of collateral Myocardial Infarction circulation that has already developed or that can open within minutes after the occlusion. In a normal heart, Immediately after an acute coronary occlusion, blood almost no large communications exist among the larger flow ceases in the coronary vessels beyond the occlusion, coronary arteries. However, many anastomoses do exist except for small amounts of collateral flow from sur- among the smaller arteries of 20 to 250 micrometers in rounding vessels. The area of muscle that has zero flow or diameter, as shown in Figure 21-6 . so little flow that it cannot sustain cardiac muscle func- When a sudden occlusion occurs in one of the larger tion is said to be infarcted. The overall process is called a coronary arteries, the small anastomoses begin to dilate myocardial infarction. within seconds. However, the blood flow through these Soon after the onset
