Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


be infarcted. The overall process is called a coronary arteries, the small anastomoses begin to dilate myocardial infarction. within seconds. However, the blood flow through these Soon after the onset of the infarction, small amounts minute collaterals is usually less than half of that needed of collateral blood begin to infiltrate the infarcted area, to keep most of the cardiac muscle alive that they now which, combined with progressive dilation of local blood supply. The diameters of the collateral vessels do not vessels, causes the area to become overfilled with stag- enlarge much more for the next 8 to 24 hours. Then, nant blood. Simultaneously the muscle fibers use the last however, collateral flow begins to increase, doubling bits of the oxygen in the blood, causing the hemoglobin by the second or third day and often reaching normal to become totally deoxygenated. Therefore, the infarcted or almost normal coronary flow within about 1 month. area takes on a bluish- brown hue, and the blood vessels of Because of these developing collateral channels, many the area appear to be engorged, despite lack of blood flow. patients recover almost completely from various degrees In later stages, the vessel walls become highly permeable 265 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation and leak fluid, the local muscle tissue becomes edema- tous, and the cardiac muscle cells begin to swell because of diminished cellular metabolism. Within a few hours of almost no blood supply, the cardiac muscle cells die. Cardiac muscle requires about 1.3 ml of oxygen/100 g of muscle tissue/min just to remain alive. In compari- son, about 8 ml oxygen/100 g are delivered to the normal resting left ventricle each minute. Therefore, if there is even 15% to 30% of normal resting coronary blood flow, Normal the muscle will not die. In the central portion of a large contraction infarct, however, where there is almost no collateral blood flow, the muscle does die. Nonfunctional Subendocardial Infarction. The subendocardial mus- muscle cle frequently becomes infarcted, even when there is no evidence of infarction in the outer surface portions of the heart. This occurs because the subendocardial muscle has a higher oxygen consumption and extra difficulty obtain- Systolic stretch ing adequate blood flow because the blood vessels in the subendocardium are intensely compressed by systolic contraction of the heart, as explained earlier. Therefore, any condition that compromises blood flow to any area of the heart
