Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood vessels in the subendocardium are intensely compressed by systolic contraction of the heart, as explained earlier. Therefore, any condition that compromises blood flow to any area of the heart usually causes damage first in the subendocardi- al regions, and the damage then spreads outward toward Figure 21- 7. Systolic stretch in an area of ischemic cardiac muscle. the epicardium. CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER ACUTE more than 40% of the left ventricle is infarcted, and death CORONARY OCCLUSION occurs in more than 70% of patients once cardiac shock develops. The most common causes of death after acute myocardial infarction are the following: (1) decreased cardiac output; Damming of Blood in the Body’s Venous System. (2) damming of blood in the pulmonary blood vessels and When the heart is not pumping blood forward, it must then death resulting from pulmonary edema; (3) fibril- be damming blood in the atria and in the blood vessels lation of the heart; and, occasionally (4) rupture of the of the lungs or in the systemic circulation. This leads to heart. increased capillary pressures, particularly in the lungs. Damming of blood in the veins often causes little dif- Decreased Cardiac Output—Systolic Stretch and ficulty during the first few hours after a myocardial infarc- Cardiac Shock. When some of the cardiac muscle fibers tion. Instead, symptoms develop a few days later because are not functioning and others are too weak to contract the acutely diminished cardiac output leads to diminished with great force, the overall pumping ability of the affected blood flow to the kidneys. Then, for reasons discussed in ventricle is proportionately depressed. The overall pump- Chapter 22, the kidneys fail to excrete enough urine. This ing strength of the infarcted heart is often decreased more adds progressively to the total blood volume and, there- than one might expect because of a phenomenon called fore, leads to congestive symptoms. Consequently, many systolic stretch, shown in Figure 21- 7. That is, when the patients who seemingly are getting along well during the normal portions of the ventricular muscle contract, the is- first few days after the onset of heart failure will suddenly chemic portion of the muscle, whether it is dead or simply experience acute pulmonary edema and often will die nonfunctional, instead of contracting is forced outward by within a few hours after the appearance of the initial pul- the pressure that develops inside the ventricle.
