Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and often will die nonfunctional, instead of contracting is forced outward by within a few hours after the appearance of the initial pul- the pressure that develops inside the ventricle. Therefore, monary symptoms. much of the pumping force of the ventricle is dissipated by bulging of the area of nonfunctional cardiac muscle. Fibrillation of the Ventricles After Myocardial Infarc- When the heart becomes incapable of contracting with tion. In many people who die of coronary occlusion, sufficient force to pump enough blood into the peripheral death occurs because of sudden ventricular fibrillation. arterial tree, cardiac failure and death of peripheral tissues The tendency for fibrillation to develop is especially great ensue as a result of peripheral ischemia. This condition, after a large infarction, but fibrillation can sometimes called coronary shock, cardiogenic shock, cardiac shock, or occur after small occlusions as well. Some patients with low cardiac output failure, is discussed more fully in the chronic coronary insufficiency die suddenly of fibrillation next chapter. Cardiac shock almost always occurs when without having any acute infarction. 266 Chapter 21 Muscle Blood Flow and Cardiac Output During Exercise Fibrillation is most likely to occur during two espe- Mild Mild cially dangerous periods after coronary infarction. The ischemia ischemia first period is during the first 10 minutes after the infarc- tion occurs. Then, there is a short period of relative safety, followed by a second period of cardiac irritability begin- Non- Non- ning 1 hour or so later and lasting for another few hours. functional functional Fibrillation can also occur many days after the infarct but Dead fibers is less likely to occur then. At least four factors are involved in the tendency for Nonfunctional the heart to fibrillate, as follows: 1. Acute loss of blood supply to the cardiac muscle causes rapid depletion of potassium from the ischem- ic musculature. This also increases the potassium concentration in the extracellular fluids surrounding Dead fibers Fibrous tissue the cardiac muscle fibers. Experiments in which po- Figure 21- 8. Top, Small and large areas of coronary ischemia. Bot- tassium has been injected into the coronary system tom, Stages of recovery from myocardial infarction. have demonstrated that an elevated extracellular po- tassium concentration increases the irritability of the cardiac musculature and, therefore, its likelihood of wall becomes stretched very thin. When this happens, the fibrillating. dead muscle bulges outward to a severe degree with each 2. Ischemia
