Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the cardiac musculature and, therefore, its likelihood of wall becomes stretched very thin. When this happens, the fibrillating. dead muscle bulges outward to a severe degree with each 2. Ischemia of the muscle causes an injury current, heart contraction, and this systolic stretch becomes great- described in Chapter 12 in relation to electrocar- er and greater until finally the heart ruptures. One of the diograms in patients with acute myocardial infarc- methods used to assess the progress of severe myocardial tion. That is, the ischemic musculature often cannot infarction is to record by cardiac imaging, with echocar- completely repolarize its membranes after a heart- diography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or com- beat, and thus the external surface of this muscle puted tomography (CT), whether the degree of systolic remains negative with respect to normal cardiac stretch is worsening. muscle membrane potential elsewhere in the heart. When a ventricle does rupture, loss of blood into Therefore, electric current flows from this ischemic the pericardial space causes rapid development of car- area of the heart to the normal area and can elicit diac tamponade—that is, compression of the heart from abnormal impulses, which can cause fibrillation. the outside by blood collecting in the pericardial cavity. 3. Powerful sympathetic reflexes often develop after Because of this compression of the heart, blood cannot massive infarction, principally because the heart flow into the right atrium, and the patient dies of suddenly does not pump an adequate volume of blood into decreased cardiac output. the arterial tree, which leads to reduced blood pres- sure. The sympathetic stimulation also increases ir- STAGES OF RECOVERY FROM ACUTE ritability of the cardiac muscle and thereby predis- MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION poses to fibrillation. 4. Cardiac muscle weakness caused by the myocardial The upper left part of Figure 21- 8 shows the effects of acute infarction often causes the ventricle to dilate exces- coronary occlusion in a patient with a small area of muscle sively. This excessive dilation increases the pathway ischemia; to the right is shown a heart with a large area of length for impulse conduction in the heart and ischemia. When the area of ischemia is small, little or no frequently causes abnormal conduction pathways death of the muscle cells may occur, but part of the muscle all the way around the infarcted area of the cardi- often does become temporarily nonfunctional because of ac muscle. Both of these
