Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cells may occur, but part of the muscle all the way around the infarcted area of the cardi- often does become temporarily nonfunctional because of ac muscle. Both of these effects predispose to the inadequate nutrition to support muscle contraction. development of circus movements because, as dis- When the area of ischemia is large, some of the muscle cussed in Chapter 13, excess prolongation of con- fibers in the center of the area die rapidly, within 1 to 3 duction pathways in the ventricles allows impulses hours, where there is total cessation of coronary blood to re-e nter muscle that is already recovering from supply. Immediately around the dead area is a nonfunc- refractoriness, thereby initiating a circus movement tional area, with failure of contraction and usually failure cycle of new excitation and resulting in continua- of impulse conduction. Then, extending circumferentially tion of the process. around the nonfunctional area, is an area that is still con- tracting but only weakly because of mild ischemia. Rupture of Infarcted Area. During the first day or so after an acute infarct, there is little danger of rupture of Replacement of Dead Muscle by Scar Tissue. In the the ischemic portion of the heart, but a few days later, lower part of Figure 21- 8, the various stages of recovery the dead muscle fibers begin to degenerate, and the heart after a large myocardial infarction are shown. Shortly af- 267 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation ter the occlusion, the muscle fibers in the center of the cardiac reserve of 300% to 400%. Even when the cardiac ischemic area die. Then, during the ensuing days, this reserve is reduced to as little as 100%, the person can still area of dead fibers enlarges because many of the marginal perform most normal daily activities but not strenuous fibers finally succumb to the prolonged ischemia. At the exercise, which would overload the heart. same time, because of the enlargement of collateral arte- rial channels supplying the outer rim of the infarcted area, PAIN IN CORONARY HEART DISEASE much of the nonfunctional muscle recovers. After a few days to 3 weeks, most of the nonfunctional muscle be- Normally, a person cannot “feel” the heart, but isch- comes functional again or dies. In the meantime, fibrous emic cardiac muscle often does cause a pain sensation tissue begins developing among the dead fibers because that is sometimes severe.
