Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


comes functional again or dies. In the meantime, fibrous emic cardiac muscle often does cause a pain sensation tissue begins developing among the dead fibers because that is sometimes severe. Exactly what causes this pain ischemia can stimulate growth of fibroblasts and pro- is not known, but it is believed that ischemia causes mote development of greater than normal quantities of the muscle to release acidic substances such as lactic fibrous tissue. Therefore, the dead muscle tissue is gradu- acid or other pain- promoting products, such as his- ally replaced by fibrous tissue. Then, because it is a general tamine, kinins, or cellular proteolytic enzymes, which property of fibrous tissue to undergo progressive contrac- are not removed rapidly enough by the slowly moving tion and dissolution, the fibrous scar may grow smaller coronary blood flow. The high concentrations of these over a period of several months to a year. abnormal products then stimulate pain nerve endings Finally, the normal areas of the heart gradually hyper- in the cardiac muscle, sending pain impulses through trophy to compensate, at least partially, for the lost dead sensory afferent nerve fibers into the central nervous cardiac musculature. By these means, the heart recov- system. ers partially or almost completely within a few months, depending on the severity of the infarction and cardiac Angina Pectoris (Cardiac Pain). In most people who tissue death. sustain progressive constriction of their coronary arter- ies, cardiac pain, called angina pectoris, begins to appear Value of Rest in Treating Myocardial Infarction. The whenever the load on the heart becomes too great in re- degree of cardiac cellular death is determined by the de- lation to the available coronary blood flow. This pain is gree of ischemia and workload on the heart muscle. When usually felt beneath the upper sternum over the heart. the workload is greatly increased, such as during exercise, In addition, the pain is often referred to distant surface in severe emotional strain, or as a result of fatigue, the areas of the body, usually to the left arm and left shoulder heart needs increased oxygen and other nutrients for but also frequently to the neck and even to the side of the sustaining its life. Furthermore, anastomotic blood ves- face. The reason for this distribution of pain is that during sels that supply blood to ischemic areas of the heart must embryonic life, the heart originates in
