Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood ves- face. The reason for this distribution of pain is that during sels that supply blood to ischemic areas of the heart must embryonic life, the heart originates in the neck, as do the also still supply the areas of the heart that they normally arms. Therefore, both the heart and these surface areas of supply. When the heart becomes excessively active, the the body receive pain nerve fibers from the same spinal vessels of the normal musculature become greatly di- cord segments. lated. This dilation allows most of the blood flowing into Most people who have chronic angina pectoris feel the coronary vessels to flow through the normal muscle pain when they exercise or when they experience emo- tissue, thus leaving little blood to flow through the small tions that increase metabolism of the heart or temporar- anastomotic channels into the ischemic area. As a result, ily constrict the coronary vessels because of sympathetic the ischemic condition worsens, a condition called the vasoconstrictor nerve signals. Anginal pain is also exac- coronary steal syndrome. Consequently, an important fac- erbated by cold temperatures or by having a full stom- tor in the treatment of a patient with myocardial infarc- ach, both of which increase the workload of the heart. tion is observance of absolute body rest during the recov- The pain usually lasts for only a few minutes. However, ery process. some patients have such severe and lasting ischemia that the pain is present all the time. The pain is frequently HEART FUNCTION AFTER RECOVERY described as hot, pressing, and constricting and is of such FROM MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION quality that it usually makes the patient stop all unneces- sary body activity. Occasionally, a heart that has recovered from a large myocardial infarction returns almost to full functional Drug Treatment. Several vasodilator drugs, when ad- capability, but more frequently, its pumping capability ministered during an acute anginal attack, can often is permanently decreased below that of a healthy heart. provide immediate relief from the pain. Commonly used This does not mean that the person is necessarily a car- short- acting vasodilators are nitroglycerin and other ni- diac invalid or that the resting cardiac output is depressed trate drugs. Other drugs, such as angiotensin- converting below normal because the normal heart is capable of enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, calci- pumping 300% to 400% more blood per minute than the um channel
