Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as angiotensin- converting below normal because the normal heart is capable of enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, calci- pumping 300% to 400% more blood per minute than the um channel blockers, and ranolazine, may be beneficial in body requires during rest—that is, a normal person has a treating chronic stable angina pectoris. 268 Chapter 21 Muscle Blood Flow and Cardiac Output During Exercise Another class of drugs used for the prolonged treat- (restenosis) of the blocked coronary artery occurs in ment of angina pectoris is the beta blockers, such as pro- about 25% to 40% of patients treated with angioplasty, pranolol. These drugs block sympathetic beta-a drenergic often within 6 months of the initial procedure. Resteno- receptors, which prevents sympathetic enhancement sis is usually due to the excessive formation of scar tissue of heart rate and cardiac metabolism during exercise that develops underneath the healthy new endothelium or emotional episodes. Therefore, therapy with a beta that has grown over the stent. Stents that slowly release blocker decreases the need of the heart for extra meta- drugs (drug-e luting stents) may help prevent the exces- bolic oxygen during stressful conditions. For obvious rea- sive growth of scar tissue. sons, this therapy can also reduce the number of anginal Newer procedures for opening atherosclerotic coro- attacks, as well as their severity. nary arteries are constantly in experimental development. One of these procedures uses a laser beam from the tip SURGICAL TREATMENT OF CORONARY of a coronary artery catheter aimed at the atherosclerotic ARTERY DISEASE lesion. The laser literally dissolves the lesion without sub- stantially damaging the remainder of the arterial wall. Aortic-C oronary Bypass Surgery. In many patients with coronary ischemia, the constricted areas of the coronary Bibliography arteries are located at only a few discrete points blocked by atherosclerotic disease, and the coronary vessels elsewhere Allaqaband H, Gutterman DD, Kadlec AO: Physiological consequenc- are normal or almost normal. In the 1960s, a surgical pro- es of coronary arteriolar dysfunction and its influence on cardiovas- cular disease. Physiology (Bethesda) 33:338, 2018. cedure called aortic- coronary bypass or coronary artery by- Alexander JH, Smith PK: Coronary-a rtery bypass grafting. N Engl J pass grafting (CABG) was developed, in which a section of a Med 374:1954, 2016. subcutaneous vein is removed from an arm or leg and then Anderson JL, Morrow DA: Acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med grafted from the root of
