Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Indolfi C, Räber L, Adriaenssens T, Münzel T: Pre- the partially occluded point. The balloon is then inflated dictors of stent thrombosis and their implications for clinical prac- with high pressure, which stretches the diseased artery tice. Nat Rev Cardiol 16:243, 2019 Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Pathology: Cardiac markedly. After this procedure is performed, the blood Output and Its Regulation. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1973. flow through the vessel often increases 3-fold to 4-fold, Joyner MJ, Casey DP: Regulation of increased blood flow (hyperemia) and more than 75% of patients who undergo the proce- to muscles during exercise: a hierarchy of competing physiological dure are relieved of the coronary ischemic symptoms for needs. Physiol Rev 95:549, 2015. at least several years, although many of the patients still Meier P, Schirmer SH, Lansky AJ, et al: The collateral circulation of the heart. BMC Med 11:143, 2013. eventually require coronary bypass surgery. Mitchell JH: Abnormal cardiovascular response to exercise in hyper- Small stainless steel mesh tubes called stents are tension: contribution of neural factors. Am J Physiol Regul Integr sometimes placed inside a coronary artery dilated by Comp Physiol 312:R851, 2017. angioplasty to hold the artery open, thus preventing its Sandoval Y, Jaffe AS: Type 2 Myocardial infarction. J Am Coll Cardiol restenosis. Within a few weeks after the stent is placed 73:1846, 2019. Taqueti VR, Di Carli MF: Coronary microvascular disease pathogenic in the coronary artery, the endothelium usually grows mechanisms and therapeutic options. J Am Coll Cardiol 72:2625, over the metal surface of the stent, allowing blood to 2018. flow smoothly through the stent. However, reclosure 269 UNIT IV CHAPTER 2 2 Cardiac Failure One of the most important ailments treated by the phy- the heart from the body is dammed up in the right atrium. sician is cardiac failure (heart failure). This ailment can This low cardiac output is still sufficient to sustain life for result from any heart condition that reduces the ability perhaps a few hours, but it is likely to be associated with of the heart to pump enough blood to meet the body’s fainting. Fortunately, this acute stage usually lasts for only needs. The cause is often decreased contractility of the a few seconds because sympathetic nervous reflexes occur myocardium resulting from diminished coronary blood almost immediately and compensate, to a great extent, for flow. However, cardiac failure can also be caused by
