Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


seconds because sympathetic nervous reflexes occur myocardium resulting from diminished coronary blood almost immediately and compensate, to a great extent, for flow. However, cardiac failure can also be caused by dam- the damaged heart, as follows. aged heart valves, external pressure around the heart, vitamin B deficiency, primary cardiac muscle disease, or Compensation for Acute Cardiac Failure by any other abnormality that makes the heart a hypoeffec- Sympathetic Nervous Reflexes. When the cardiac out- tive pump. put falls precariously low, many of the circulatory reflexes In this chapter, we mainly discuss cardiac failure caused discussed in Chapter 18 are rapidly activated. The best by ischemic heart disease resulting from partial blockage known of these is the baroreceptor reflex, which is acti- of the coronary blood vessels, which is the most common vated by diminished arterial pressure. The chemoreceptor cause of heart failure. In Chapter 23, we discuss valvular reflex, the central nervous system ischemic response, and and congenital heart disease. even reflexes that originate in the damaged heart also likely contribute to activation of the sympathetic nerv- CIRCULATORY DYNAMICS IN CARDIAC ous system. The sympathetics therefore become strongly FAILURE stimulated within a few seconds, and the parasympathetic nervous signals to the heart become inhibited at the same ACUTE EFFECTS OF MODERATE CARDIAC time. FAILURE Strong sympathetic stimulation has major effects on the heart and peripheral vasculature. If all the ventricu- If a heart suddenly becomes severely damaged, such lar musculature is diffusely damaged but is still func- as by myocardial infarction, the pumping ability of the tional, sympathetic stimulation strengthens this damaged heart is immediately depressed. As a result, two main musculature. If part of the muscle is nonfunctional, and effects occur: (1) reduced cardiac output; and (2) dam- part of it is still normal, the normal muscle is strongly ming of blood in the veins, resulting in increased venous stimulated by sympathetic stimulation, in this way par- pressure. tially compensating for the nonfunctional muscle. Thus, The progressive changes in heart pumping effective- the heart becomes a stronger pump as a result of sympa- ness at different times after an acute myocardial infarc- thetic stimulation. This effect is illustrated in Figure 22- 1, tion are shown graphically in Figure 22- 1. The top curve which shows about a twofold elevation of the very low of this figure shows a normal cardiac output curve. Point cardiac output curve after sympathetic compensation.
