Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1. The top curve which shows about a twofold elevation of the very low of this figure shows a normal cardiac output curve. Point cardiac output curve after sympathetic compensation. A on this curve is the normal operating point, showing a Sympathetic stimulation also increases venous return normal cardiac output under resting conditions of 5 L/ because it increases the tone of most of the blood vessels min and a right atrial pressure of 0 mm Hg. of the circulation, especially the veins, raising the mean Immediately after the heart becomes damaged, the systemic filling pressure to 12 to 14 mm Hg, almost 100% cardiac output curve becomes greatly depressed, falling to above normal. As discussed in Chapter 20, this increased the lowest curve at the bottom of the graph. Within a few filling pressure greatly increases the tendency for blood seconds, a new circulatory state is established at point B, to flow from the veins back into the heart. Therefore, the illustrating that the cardiac output has fallen to 2 L/min, damaged heart becomes primed with more inflowing about two- fifths normal, whereas the right atrial pressure blood than usual, and the right atrial pressure rises still has risen to +4 mm Hg because venous blood returning to further, which helps the heart pump still larger quantities 271 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Normal heart Moderate Fluid Retention in Cardiac Failure Can Be Partially recovered heart Beneficial. Many cardiologists have considered fluid Damaged heart + sympathetic stimulation retention always to have a detrimental effect in cardiac 15 Acutely damaged heart failure. However, a moderate increase in body fluid and blood volume is an important factor in helping to com- pensate for the diminished pumping ability of the heart by increasing the venous return. The increased blood vol- 10 ume increases venous return in two ways. First, it increas- es the mean systemic filling pressure, which increases the pressure gradient for causing venous flow of blood toward A D the heart. Second, it distends the veins, which reduces the 5 venous resistance and allows even more ease of flow of C blood to the heart. If the heart is not damaged too much, this increased B venous return can almost fully compensate for the heart’s 0 −4 −2 0+2 +4 +6 +8 +10 +12 +14 diminished pumping ability—enough so that even when Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) the heart’s
