Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


almost fully compensate for the heart’s 0 −4 −2 0+2 +4 +6 +8 +10 +12 +14 diminished pumping ability—enough so that even when Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) the heart’s pumping ability is reduced to as low as 40% to 50% of normal, the increased venous return can often Figure 22- 1 Progressive changes in the cardiac output curve after acute myocardial infarction. Both the cardiac output and right atrial cause nearly normal cardiac output as long as the person pressure change progressively from point A to point D (illustrated by remains in a quiet resting state. the black line) over a period of seconds, minutes, days, and weeks. When the heart’s pumping capability is reduced fur- ther, blood flow to the kidneys finally becomes too low of blood. Thus, in Figure 22- 1, the new circulatory state for the kidneys to excrete enough salt and water to equal is depicted by point C, showing a cardiac output of 4.2 L/ salt and water intake. Therefore, fluid retention begins min and a right atrial pressure of 5 mm Hg. and continues indefinitely unless major therapeutic pro- The sympathetic reflexes become maximally devel- cedures are used to prevent this outcome. Furthermore, oped in about 30 seconds. Therefore, a person who has because the heart is already pumping at its maximum a sudden, moderate heart attack might experience noth- capacity, this excess fluid no longer has a beneficial effect ing more than cardiac pain and a few seconds of fainting. on the circulation. Instead, the fluid retention increases Shortly thereafter, with the aid of the sympathetic reflex the workload on the already damaged heart, and severe compensations, the cardiac output may return to a level edema develops throughout the body, which can be very adequate to sustain the person if he or she remains quiet, detrimental and can lead to death. although the pain might persist. Detrimental Effects of Excess Fluid Retention in CHRONIC STAGE OF FAILURE—FLUID Severe Cardiac Failure. In contrast to the beneficial RETENTION AND COMPENSATED effects of moderate fluid retention in cardiac failure, in CARDIAC OUTPUT severe cardiac failure, extreme excesses of fluid can have serious physiologic consequences. These include the fol- After the first few minutes of an acute heart attack, a lowing: (1) increasing the workload on the damaged heart; prolonged semichronic state begins, characterized (2) overstretching of the heart, which further weakens the mainly by two
