Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acute heart attack, a lowing: (1) increasing the workload on the damaged heart; prolonged semichronic state begins, characterized (2) overstretching of the heart, which further weakens the mainly by two events: (1) retention of fluid by the kid- heart; (3) filtration of fluid into the lungs, causing pulmo- neys; and (2) varying degrees of recovery of the heart nary edema and consequent deoxygenation of the blood; over a period of weeks to months, as illustrated by the and (4) development of extensive edema in most parts of light green curve in Figure 22-1 . This topic was also the body. These detrimental effects of excessive fluid are discussed in Chapter 21. discussed in later sections of this chapter. Renal Retention of Fluid and Increase in Recovery of the Heart After Myocardial Blood Volume Occur for Hours to Days Infarction A low cardiac output has a profound effect on renal After a heart becomes suddenly damaged as a result of function, sometimes causing anuria when the cardiac myocardial infarction, the natural reparative processes of output falls to 50% to 60% of normal. In general, the the body begin to help restore normal cardiac function. urine output remains below normal as long as the car- For example, a new collateral blood supply begins to pen- diac output and arterial pressure remain significantly etrate the peripheral portions of the infarcted area of the less than normal; urine output usually does not return heart, often causing some of the heart muscle in the fringe all the way to normal after an acute heart attack until areas to become functional again. Also, the undamaged the cardiac output and arterial pressure rise almost to portion of the heart musculature hypertrophies, offset- normal levels. ting some of the cardiac damage. 272 )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC Chapter 22 Cardiac Failure The degree of recovery, which depends on the type Critical cardiac output level for normal fluid balance and severity of cardiac damage, varies from no recovery to almost complete recovery. After an acute myocardial infarction, the heart ordinarily recovers rapidly during the 5.0 first few days and weeks and achieves most of its final state 2.5 B C D E of recovery within 5 to 7 weeks, although mild degrees of A F additional recovery can continue for months. 0 −4 0+4 +8 +12 +16 Cardiac Output Curve After Partial Recovery. Figure Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) 22- 1
