Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


degrees of A F additional recovery can continue for months. 0 −4 0+4 +8 +12 +16 Cardiac Output Curve After Partial Recovery. Figure Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) 22- 1 shows function of the partially recovered heart a Figure 22- 2 Greatly depressed cardiac output that indicates decom- week or so after an acute myocardial infarction. By this pensated heart disease. Progressive fluid retention raises the right time, considerable fluid has been retained in the body, atrial pressure over a period of days, and the cardiac output pro- gresses from point A to point F until death occurs. and the tendency for venous return has increased mark- edly as well; therefore, the right atrial pressure has risen even more. As a result, the state of the circulation is now Compensated Heart Failure. Note especially in Figure changed from point C to point D, which shows a normal 22- 1 that the maximum pumping ability of the partly re- cardiac output of 5 L/min but right atrial pressure in- covered heart, as depicted by the plateau level of the light creased to 6 mm Hg. green curve, is still depressed to less than half-n ormal. Because the cardiac output has returned to normal, This demonstrates that an increase in right atrial pressure renal output of fluid also returns to normal, and no further can maintain the cardiac output at a normal level, despite fluid retention occurs, except that the retention of fluid continued weakness of the heart. Thus, many people, es- that has already occurred continues to maintain moderate pecially older adults, have normal resting cardiac outputs excesses of fluid. Therefore, except for the high right atrial but mildly to moderately elevated right atrial pressures pressure represented by point D in this figure, the person because of various degrees of compensated heart failure. now has essentially normal cardiovascular dynamics as They may not know that they have cardiac damage be- long as he or she remains at rest. cause the damage often has occurred a little at a time, and If the heart recovers to a significant extent, and if ade- the compensation has occurred concurrently with the pro- quate fluid volume has been retained, the cardiac output gressive stages of damage. increases toward normal and sympathetic stimulation When a person is in a state of compensated heart fail- gradually abates toward normal. As the heart recovers, ure, any attempt to
