Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


damage. increases toward normal and sympathetic stimulation When a person is in a state of compensated heart fail- gradually abates toward normal. As the heart recovers, ure, any attempt to perform heavy exercise usually causes the fast pulse rate, cold skin, and pallor resulting from immediate return of the symptoms of acute heart fail- sympathetic stimulation in the acute stage of cardiac fail- ure because the heart is not able to increase its pumping ure gradually disappear. capacity to the levels required for the exercise. Therefore, it is said that the cardiac reserve is reduced in compen- sated heart failure. This concept of cardiac reserve is dis- SUMMARY OF CHANGES AFTER ACUTE cussed later in the chapter. CARDIAC FAILURE—COMPENSATED HEART FAILURE DYNAMICS OF SEVERE CARDIAC To summarize the events discussed in the past few sec- FAILURE—DECOMPENSATED HEART tions describing the dynamics of circulatory changes after FAILURE an acute, moderate heart attack, we can divide the stages into the following: (1) the instantaneous effect of the car- If the heart becomes severely damaged, no amount of diac damage; (2) compensation by the sympathetic nervous compensation by sympathetic nervous reflexes or fluid system, which occurs mainly within the first 30 to 60 sec- retention can make the excessively weakened heart onds; and (3) chronic compensations resulting from par- pump a normal cardiac output. As a consequence, the tial heart recovery and renal retention of fluid. All these cardiac output cannot rise high enough to make the kid- changes are shown graphically by the black line in Figure neys excrete normal quantities of fluid. Therefore, fluid 22- 1. The progression of this line shows the normal state of continues to be retained, the person develops more and the circulation (point A), the state a few seconds after the more edema, and this state of events eventually leads to heart attack but before sympathetic reflexes have occurred death. This condition is called decompensated heart fail- (point B), the rise in cardiac output toward normal caused ure. Thus, a major cause of decompensated heart failure is by sympathetic stimulation (point C), and final return of failure of the heart to pump sufficient blood to make the the cardiac output to almost normal after several days to kidneys excrete the necessary amounts of fluid every day. several weeks of partial cardiac recovery and fluid reten- tion (point D). This final state is called compensated heart Graphic
