Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to kidneys excrete the necessary amounts of fluid every day. several weeks of partial cardiac recovery and fluid reten- tion (point D). This final state is called compensated heart Graphic Analysis of Decompensated Heart Failure. failure. Figure 22-2 shows greatly depressed cardiac output at 273 tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation different times (points A to F) after the heart has be- Thus, one can see from this analysis that failure of the come severely weakened. Point A on this curve repre- cardiac output (and arterial pressure) to rise to the criti- sents the approximate state of the circulation before any cal level required for normal renal function results in the compensation has occurred, and point B represents the following: (1) progressive retention of more and more state a few minutes later, after sympathetic stimulation fluid; (2) progressive elevation of the mean systemic filling has compensated as much as it can but before fluid re- pressure; and (3) progressive elevation of the right atrial tention has begun. At this time, the cardiac output has pressure until, finally, the heart is so overstretched or so risen to 4 L/min and the right atrial pressure has risen edematous that it cannot pump even moderate quantities to 5 mm Hg. The person appears to be in reasonably of blood and, therefore, fails completely. Clinically, one good condition, but this state will not remain stable be- detects this serious condition of decompensation princi- cause the cardiac output has not risen high enough to pally by the progressing edema, especially edema of the cause adequate kidney excretion of fluid; therefore, flu- lungs, which leads to bubbling rales (a crackling sound) in id retention continues and can eventually be the cause the lungs and to dyspnea (air hunger). Lack of appropriate of death. These events can be explained quantitatively therapy at this stage rapidly leads to death. in the following way. Note the straight line in Figure 22- 2, at a cardiac Treatment of Decompensation. The decompensa- output level of 5 L/min. This level is approximately the tion process can often be stopped by the following: (1) critical cardiac output level that is required in the average strengthening the heart in any one of several ways, espe- adult person to make the kidneys reestablish normal fluid cially by administering a cardiotonic drug, such as digi- balance—that is, for the output of salt and
