Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of several ways, espe- adult person to make the kidneys reestablish normal fluid cially by administering a cardiotonic drug, such as digi- balance—that is, for the output of salt and water to be as talis, so that the heart becomes strong enough to pump high as the intake of these substances. At cardiac outputs adequate quantities of blood required to make the kid- below this level, the fluid- retaining mechanisms discussed neys function normally again; or (2) administering diu- in the earlier section remain in play, and the body fluid retic drugs to increase kidney excretion while at the same volume increases progressively. Because of this progres- time reducing water and salt intake, which results in a bal- sive increase in fluid volume, the mean systemic filling ance between fluid intake and output, despite low cardiac pressure of the circulation continues to rise, which forces output. progressively increasing quantities of blood from the per- Both methods stop the decompensation process by re- son’s peripheral veins into the right atrium, thus increas- establishing normal fluid balance so that at least as much ing the right atrial pressure. After 1 day or so, the state of fluid leaves the body as enters it. the circulation changes in Figure 22- 2 from point B to point C, with the right atrial pressure rising to 7 mm Hg Mechanism of Action of Cardiotonic Drugs. Cardiot- and the cardiac output rising to 4.2 L/min. Note again that onic drugs, such as digitalis, when administered to a per- the cardiac output is still not high enough to cause nor- son with a healthy heart, have little effect on increasing mal renal output of fluid; therefore, fluid continues to be the contractile strength of the cardiac muscle. However, retained. After another day or so, the right atrial pressure when administered to someone with a chronically fail- rises to 9 mm Hg, and the circulatory state becomes that ing heart, the same drugs can sometimes increase the depicted by point D. Still, the cardiac output is not enough strength of the failing myocardium by as much as 50% to to establish normal fluid balance. 100%. Therefore, they are one of the mainstays of therapy After another few days of fluid retention, the right atrial in persons with chronic heart failure. pressure has risen further but, by now, cardiac function Digitalis and other cardiotonic glycosides are believed is beginning
