Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of fluid retention, the right atrial in persons with chronic heart failure. pressure has risen further but, by now, cardiac function Digitalis and other cardiotonic glycosides are believed is beginning to decline toward a lower level. This decline to strengthen heart contractions by increasing the quan- is caused by overstretch of the heart, edema of the heart tity of calcium ions in muscle fibers. This effect is likely muscle, and other factors that diminish the heart’s pump- due to inhibition of sodium- potassium adenosine tri- ing performance. It is now clear that further retention of phosphatase in cardiac cell membranes. Inhibition of fluid will be more detrimental than beneficial to the cir- the sodium- potassium pump increases the intracellular culation. Yet, the cardiac output still is not high enough sodium concentration and slows the sodium-c alcium to bring about normal renal function, so fluid retention exchange pump, which extrudes calcium from the cell not only continues but accelerates because of the falling in exchange for sodium. Because the sodium- calcium cardiac output (and the falling arterial pressure that also exchange pump relies on a high sodium gradient across occurs). Consequently, within a few days, the state of the the cell membrane, accumulation of sodium inside the circulation has reached point F on the curve, with the car- cell reduces its activity. diac output now less than 2.5 L/min and the right atrial In the failing heart muscle, the sarcoplasmic reticu- pressure 16 mm Hg. This state has approached or reached lum fails to accumulate normal quantities of calcium and, incompatibility with life, and the patient will die unless therefore, cannot release enough calcium ions into the this chain of events can be reversed. This state of heart free fluid compartment of the muscle fibers to cause full failure in which the failure continues to worsen is called contraction of the muscle. The effect of digitalis to depress decompensated heart failure. the sodium- calcium exchange pump and raise calcium 274 Chapter 22 Cardiac Failure ion concentration in cardiac muscle provides the extra sively more damaged when its coronary blood supply is re- calcium needed to increase the muscle contractile force. duced during the course of the shock. That is, the low arte- Therefore, it is usually beneficial to depress the calcium rial pressure that occurs during shock reduces the coronary pumping mechanism by a moderate amount using digi- blood supply even
