Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


arte- Therefore, it is usually beneficial to depress the calcium rial pressure that occurs during shock reduces the coronary pumping mechanism by a moderate amount using digi- blood supply even more. This reduction further weakens talis, allowing the muscle fiber intracellular calcium level the heart, which makes the arterial pressure fall further, to rise slightly. which makes the shock progressively worse; the process eventually becomes a vicious cycle of cardiac deterioration. UNILATERAL LEFT HEART FAILURE In cardiogenic shock caused by myocardial infarction, this problem is greatly compounded by already existing coro- Thus far we have considered failure of the heart as a nary vessel blockage. For example, in a healthy heart, the whole. Yet, in a large number of patients, especially those arterial pressure usually must be reduced below about 45 with early acute heart failure, left- sided failure predomi- mm Hg before cardiac deterioration sets in. However, in nates over right- sided failure and, in rare cases, the right a heart that already has a blocked major coronary vessel, side fails without significant failure of the left side. deterioration begins when the coronary arterial pressure When the left side of the heart fails without concomi- falls below 80 to 90 mm Hg. In other words, even a small tant failure of the right side, blood continues to be pumped decrease in arterial pressure can now set off a vicious cycle into the lungs with usual right heart vigor, whereas it is of cardiac deterioration. For this reason, in treating myo- not pumped adequately out of the lungs by the left heart cardial infarction, it is extremely important to prevent even into the systemic circulation. As a result, the mean pul- short periods of hypotension. monary filling pressure rises because of the shift of large volumes of blood from the systemic circulation into the Physiology of Cardiogenic Shock Treatment. Often, a pulmonary circulation. patient dies of cardiogenic shock before the various com- As the volume of blood in the lungs increases, the pensatory processes can return the cardiac output (and pulmonary capillary pressure increases and, if this pres- arterial pressure) to a life- sustaining level. Therefore, sure rises above a value approximately equal to the colloid treatment of this condition is one of the most important osmotic pressure of the plasma—about 28 mm Hg—fluid challenges in the management of acute heart attacks. begins to filter out of the capillaries into
