Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is one of the most important osmotic pressure of the plasma—about 28 mm Hg—fluid challenges in the management of acute heart attacks. begins to filter out of the capillaries into the lung inter- Digitalis is often administered immediately to strengthen stitial spaces and alveoli, resulting in pulmonary edema. the heart if the ventricular muscle shows signs of deteriora- Thus, the most important problems of left heart fail- tion. Also, infusion of whole blood, plasma, or a blood pres- ure include pulmonary vascular congestion and pulmo- sure–raising drug is used to sustain the arterial pressure. If nary edema. In severe, acute, left heart failure, pulmonary the arterial pressure can be elevated to a high enough level, edema occasionally occurs so rapidly that it can cause the coronary blood flow often will increase enough to pre- death by suffocation in 20 to 30 minutes, discussed later vent the vicious cycle of deterioration. This process allows in this chapter. enough time for appropriate compensatory mechanisms in the circulatory system to correct the shock. LOW-O UTPUT CARDIAC FAILURE— Some success has also been achieved in saving the lives CARDIOGENIC SHOCK of patients in cardiogenic shock by using one of the fol- lowing procedures: (1) surgically removing the clot in the In many cases after acute heart attacks, and often after coronary artery, often in combination with a coronary prolonged periods of slow progressive cardiac deteriora- bypass graft; or (2) catheterizing the blocked coronary tion, the heart becomes incapable of pumping even the artery and infusing streptokinase or tissue- type plasmino- minimal amount of blood flow required to keep the body gen activator enzymes that causes dissolution of the clot. alive. Consequently, the body tissues begin to suffer and The results are occasionally astounding when one of these even to deteriorate, often leading to death within a few procedures is instituted within the first hour of cardio- hours to a few days. The picture, then, is one of circulatory genic shock but are of little, if any, benefit after 3 hours. shock, as explained in Chapter 24. Even the cardiovascu- lar system suffers from lack of nutrition and deteriorates, EDEMA IN PATIENTS WITH CARDIAC along with the remainder of the body, thus hastening FAILURE death. This circulatory shock syndrome caused by inade- quate cardiac pumping is called cardiogenic shock or sim- ply cardiac shock. Once cardiogenic shock develops, the Acute Cardiac Failure Does Not Cause
