Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This circulatory shock syndrome caused by inade- quate cardiac pumping is called cardiogenic shock or sim- ply cardiac shock. Once cardiogenic shock develops, the Acute Cardiac Failure Does Not Cause Immediate survival rate is often less than 30%, even with appropriate Peripheral Edema. Acute left heart failure can cause medical care. rapid congestion of the lungs, with the development of pulmonary edema and even death within minutes to Vicious Cycle of Cardiac Deterioration in Cardiogenic hours. However, left or right heart failure is slow to cause Shock. The discussion of circulatory shock in Chapter 24 peripheral edema. This situation can best be explained emphasizes the tendency for the heart to become progres- by referring to Figure 22- 3. When a previously healthy 275 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Mean aortic pressure urine output. A fall in the cardiac output to about Capillary pressure half-n ormal can result in almost complete anuria. 100 Right atrial pressure 2. Activation of renin- angiotensin system and in- creased reabsorption of water and salt by renal 80 tubules. The reduced blood flow to the kidneys causes a marked increase in renin secretion by the 60 kidneys, which in turn increases the formation of angiotensin II, as described in Chapter 19. Angio- 40 13 mm Hg tensin II, in turn, has a direct effect on the arteri- oles of the kidneys to decrease blood flow through 20 the kidneys further, which reduces the pressure in the peritubular capillaries surrounding the renal tu- 0 Normal 1/2 Normal Zero bules, promoting greatly increased reabsorption of Cardiac output water and salt from the tubules. Angiotensin II also Figure 22- 3 Progressive changes in mean aortic pressure, peripheral acts directly on the renal tubular epithelial cells to tissue capillary pressure, and right atrial pressure as the cardiac out- stimulate reabsorption of salt and water. Therefore, put falls from normal to zero. loss of water and salt into the urine decreases great- ly, and large quantities of salt and water accumulate in the blood and interstitial fluids throughout the heart acutely fails as a pump, the aortic pressure falls, and body. the right atrial pressure rises. As the cardiac output ap- 3. Increased aldosterone secretion. In the chronic proaches zero, these two pressures approach each other stage of heart failure, large quantities of aldoster- at an equilibrium value of about 13 mm Hg. Capillary one are secreted by the adrenal
