Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


these two pressures approach each other stage of heart failure, large quantities of aldoster- at an equilibrium value of about 13 mm Hg. Capillary one are secreted by the adrenal cortex. This secre- pressure also falls from its normal value of 17 mm Hg to tion results mainly from the effect of angiotensin the new equilibrium pressure of 13 mm Hg. Thus, severe II to stimulate aldosterone secretion by the adrenal acute cardiac failure often causes a fall rather than a rise cortex. However, some of the increase in aldoster- in peripheral capillary pressure. Therefore, animal experi- one secretion often results from increased plasma ments, as well as experience in humans, have shown that potassium concentration. Excess potassium is one acute cardiac failure almost never causes immediate de- of the most powerful stimuli known for aldoster- velopment of peripheral edema. one secretion, and the potassium concentration rises in response to reduced renal function in those LONG- TERM FLUID RETENTION BY THE with cardiac failure. The elevated aldosterone level KIDNEYS CAUSES PERIPHERAL EDEMA IN further increases reabsorption of sodium from the PERSISTING HEART FAILURE renal tubules, which in turn leads to a secondary increase in water reabsorption, as discussed in After the first day or so of overall heart failure or right Chapter 28. ventricular heart failure, peripheral edema begins to 4. Increased antidiuretic hormone secretion. In occur, principally because of fluid retention by the kidneys. advanced heart failure, increased secretion of anti- The retention of fluid increases the mean systemic filling diuretic hormone (ADH) may contribute to excessive pressure, resulting in an increased tendency for blood to water reabsorption by the renal tubules. As discussed return to the heart. This further elevates the right atrial in Chapters 28 and 29, ADH is secreted by the hy- pressure and returns the arterial pressure back toward pothalamic–posterior pituitary gland system in re- normal. Therefore, the capillary pressure now also rises sponse to increased extracellular fluid osmolarity, as markedly, thus causing loss of fluid into the tissues and well as nonosmotic stimuli from low- pressure (e.g., the development of severe edema. left atrial) and high- pressure (e.g., carotid sinus) ba- Reduced renal output of urine during cardiac failure roreceptors. In severe heart failure, the nonosmotic has several known causes. effects of reductions in cardiac output and arterial 1. Decreased glomerular filtration rate. A decrease pressure may predominate to stimulate secretion of in cardiac
