Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the nonosmotic has several known causes. effects of reductions in cardiac output and arterial 1. Decreased glomerular filtration rate. A decrease pressure may predominate to stimulate secretion of in cardiac output has a tendency to reduce the glo- ADH, which in turn causes excess water retention merular pressure in the kidneys because of the fol- and hyponatremia (low plasma sodium concentra- lowing: (a) reduced arterial pressure; and (b) intense tion). Inappropriately high levels of ADH and hy- sympathetic constriction of the afferent arterioles of ponatremia are predictors for worsening outcomes the kidney. As a consequence, except in the mildest in patients with heart failure. degrees of heart failure, the glomerular filtration rate 5. Activation of sympathetic nervous system. As is reduced. It is clear from the discussion of kidney discussed previously, heart failure causes marked function in Chapters 27 through 30 that a decrease activation of the sympathetic nervous system, in glomerular filtration often markedly decreases which in turn has several effects that lead to salt 276 )gH mm( erusserP Chapter 22 Cardiac Failure and water retention by the kidneys: (a) constric- 5. The peripheral vasodilation further increases ve- tion of renal afferent arterioles, which reduces the nous return of blood from the peripheral circula- glomerular filtration rate; (b) stimulation of renal tion. tubular reabsorption of salt and water by activation 6. The increased venous return further increases dam- of alpha- adrenergic receptors on tubular epithelial ming of the blood in the lungs, leading to, for ex- cells; (c) stimulation of renin release and angioten- ample, still more transudation of fluid, more arte- sin II formation, which increases renal tubular reab- rial oxygen desaturation, and more venous return. sorption; and (d) stimulation of ADH release from Thus, a vicious cycle has been established. the posterior pituitary, which then increases water Once this vicious cycle has proceeded beyond a reabsorption by the renal tubules. These effects of certain critical point, it will continue until the patient sympathetic stimulation are discussed in Chapters dies, unless successful therapeutic measures are initi- 27 and 28. ated within minutes. The types of measures that can reverse the process and save the patient’s life include the Role of Natriuretic Peptides in Delaying Onset of following: Cardiac Decompensation. Natriuretic peptides are hor- 1. Putting tourniquets on both arms and legs to se- quester much of the blood in the veins and, there- mones released by the heart
