Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Decompensation. Natriuretic peptides are hor- 1. Putting tourniquets on both arms and legs to se- quester much of the blood in the veins and, there- mones released by the heart when it becomes stretched. fore, decrease the workload on the left side of the Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is released by the atrial heart walls, and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) is released by 2. Administering a rapidly acting diuretic, such as the ventricular walls. Because heart failure almost always furosemide, to cause rapid loss of fluid from the increases the atrial and ventricular pressures that stretch body the walls of these chambers, circulating levels of ANP and 3. Giving the patient pure oxygen to breathe to reverse BNP in the blood may increase severalfold in severe heart the blood oxygen desaturation, heart deterioration, failure. These natriuretic peptides, in turn, have a direct and peripheral vasodilation effect on the kidneys to increase their excretion of salt 4. Administering a rapidly acting cardiotonic drug, and water greatly. Therefore, the natriuretic peptides play such as digitalis, to strengthen the heart a natural role to help prevent extreme congestive symp- This vicious cycle of acute pulmonary edema can pro- toms during cardiac failure. Because the half-l ife of BNP ceed so rapidly that death can occur in 20 to 60 minutes. is significantly longer than that of ANP and can be easily Therefore, any procedure that is to be successful must be measured in the bloodstream, it is often used to diagnose instituted immediately. heart failure or to monitor volume status in patients with established heart failure. The renal effects of ANP are dis- cussed in Chapters 28 and 30. CARDIAC RESERVE The maximum percentage that the cardiac output can Acute Pulmonary Edema in Late-S tage increase above normal is called the cardiac reserve. Thus, Heart Failure—Another Lethal Vicious in the healthy young adult, the cardiac reserve is 300% to Cycle 400%. In athletically trained persons, it is 500% to 600% or A frequent cause of death is acute pulmonary edema in more. However, in persons with severe heart failure, there patients who have already had heart failure for a long is no cardiac reserve. As an example of normal reserve, time. When acute pulmonary edema occurs in a person the cardiac output of a healthy young adult during vigor- without new cardiac damage, it usually is set off by some ous exercise can
