Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pulmonary edema occurs in a person the cardiac output of a healthy young adult during vigor- without new cardiac damage, it usually is set off by some ous exercise can rise to about five times normal, which temporary overload of the heart, such as that which might is an increase above normal of 400%—that is, a cardiac result from a bout of heavy exercise, an emotional experi- reserve of 400%. ence, or even a severe cold. The acute pulmonary edema is Any factor that prevents the heart from pumping blood believed to result from the following vicious cycle: satisfactorily will decrease the cardiac reserve. A decrease 1. A temporarily increased load on the already weak in cardiac reserve can result from disorders such as isch- left ventricle initiates the vicious cycle. Because of emic heart disease, primary myocardial disease, vitamin limited pumping capacity of the left heart, blood deficiency that affects cardiac muscle, physical damage to begins to dam up in the lungs. the myocardium, valvular heart disease, and other factors, 2. The increased blood in the lungs elevates the pul- some of which are shown in Figure 22- 4. monary capillary pressure, and a small amount of fluid begins to transude into the lung tissues and Diagnosis of Low Cardiac Reserve—Exercise Test. alveoli. As long as persons with low cardiac reserve remain in 3. The increased fluid in the lungs diminishes the a state of rest, they usually will not experience major degree of oxygenation of the blood. symptoms of heart disease. However, a diagnosis of low 4. The decreased oxygen in the blood further weakens cardiac reserve usually can be made by requiring the the heart and also causes peripheral vasodilation. person to exercise on a treadmill or by walking up and 277 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Athlete 15 Normal 600 500 10 Normal Mild 400 valvular A D 300 Moderate disease 5 C coronary 200 disease Diphtheria 0 B Severe Severe −4 −2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 100 coronary valvular Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) thrombosis disease 0 Normal Figure 22- 5 Progressive changes in cardiac output, venous return, operation and right atrial pressure during different stages of cardiac failure. Figure 22- 4 Cardiac reserve in different conditions, showing less than zero reserve for two of the conditions. curves cross. Therefore, the normal state of the circula- tion is a cardiac
