Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


22- 4 Cardiac reserve in different conditions, showing less than zero reserve for two of the conditions. curves cross. Therefore, the normal state of the circula- tion is a cardiac output and venous return of 5 L/min and down steps, either of which requires greatly increased a right atrial pressure of 0 mm Hg. cardiac output. The increased load on the heart rapidly uses up the small amount of reserve that is available, and Acute Heart Attack Reduces Cardiac Output Curve. the cardiac output soon fails to rise high enough to sus- During the first few seconds after a moderately severe tain the body’s new level of activity. The acute effects are heart attack, the cardiac output curve falls to the lower- as follows: most blue curve. During these few seconds, the venous 1. Immediate and sometimes extreme shortness of return curve still has not changed because the peripheral breath (dyspnea) resulting from failure of the heart to circulatory system is still operating normally. Therefore, pump sufficient blood to the tissues, thereby causing the new state of the circulation is depicted by point B, tissue ischemia and creating a sensation of air hunger where the new cardiac output curve crosses the normal 2. Extreme muscle fatigue resulting from muscle is- venous return curve. Thus, the right atrial pressure rises chemia, thus limiting the person’s ability to contin- immediately to 4 mm Hg, whereas the cardiac output falls ue with the exercise to 2 L/min. 3. Excessive increase in heart rate because the nerv- ous reflexes to the heart overreact in an attempt to Sympathetic Reflexes Raise Cardiac Output and Venous overcome the inadequate cardiac output Return Curves. Within the next 30 seconds, the sympa- Exercise tests are part of the armamentarium of the thetic reflexes are activated. They raise the cardiac output cardiologist. These tests take the place of cardiac output and venous return curves (brown dashed curves). Sym- measurements that cannot easily be made in most clinical pathetic stimulation can increase the plateau level of the settings. cardiac output curve by as much as 30% to 100%. It can also increase the mean systemic filling pressure (depicted QUANTITATIVE GRAPHIC ANALYSIS OF by the point where the venous return curve crosses the CARDIAC FAILURE zero venous return axis) by several millimeters of mer- cury—in this figure, from a normal value of 7 mm Hg Although it is possible to understand
