Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


crosses the CARDIAC FAILURE zero venous return axis) by several millimeters of mer- cury—in this figure, from a normal value of 7 mm Hg Although it is possible to understand most general prin- up to 10 mm Hg. This increase in mean systemic filling ciples of cardiac failure using mainly qualitative logic, pressure shifts the entire venous return curve to the right as we have done thus far in this chapter, one can grasp and upward. The new cardiac output and venous return the importance of the different factors in cardiac failure curves now equilibrate at point C—that is, at a right atrial in greater depth by using more quantitative approaches. pressure of +5 mm Hg and a cardiac output of 4 L/min. One such approach is the graphic method for analysis of cardiac output regulation introduced in Chapter 20. In Compensation During the Next Few Days Further the rest of this chapter, we will use this graphic technique Increases Cardiac Output and Venous Return Curves. to analyze several aspects of cardiac failure. During the ensuing week, the cardiac output and venous return curves rise further (green dashed curves) because of Graphic Analysis of Acute Heart Failure the following: (1) some recovery of the heart; and (2) renal and Chronic Compensation retention of salt and water, which raises the mean systemic Figure 22- 5 shows cardiac output and venous return filling pressure still further—this time up to +12 mm Hg. curves for different states of the heart and peripheral The two new curves now equilibrate at point D. Thus, the circulation. The two curves passing through point A are cardiac output has now returned to normal. The right atrial (1) the normal cardiac output curve and (2) the normal pressure, however, has risen still further, to +6 mm Hg. Be- venous return curve. As indicated in Chapter 20, there is cause the cardiac output is now normal, renal output is also only one point on each of these two curves at which the normal, so a new state of equilibrated fluid balance has been circulatory system can operate—point A, where the two achieved. The circulatory system will continue to function 278 )%( evreser caidraC dna tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( nruter suonev Chapter 22 Cardiac Failure 15 First day Critical cardiac output level for normal 11 505 N6 4 2 A ot t nh h u rd m td d o d
