Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to point D, point E, and it eventually leads to a new stable state of the circula- finally point F. The equilibration process is now on the tion in mild to moderate heart failure. The interrelation- downslope of the cardiac output curve, and thus further ship between mean systemic filling pressure and cardiac fluid retention causes even more severe cardiac edema pumping at various degrees of heart failure can also be and a detrimental effect on cardiac output. The condition seen. accelerates downhill until death occurs. Note that the events described in Figure 22- 5 are the Thus, decompensation results from the fact that the same as those presented in Figure 22- 1, although in a cardiac output curve never rises to the critical level of 5 more quantitative manner. L/min needed to re- establish the normal renal excretion of fluid required to result in a balance between fluid input Graphic Analysis of Decompensated and output. Cardiac Failure The black cardiac output curve in Figure 22- 6 is the same Treatment of Decompensated Heart Disease With as the curve shown in Figure 22- 2—a greatly depressed Digitalis. Assume that the stage of decompensation has curve that has already reached a degree of recovery as already reached point E in Figure 22- 6, and then proceed much as this heart can achieve. In this figure, we have to the same point E in Figure 22- 7. At this time, digitalis is added venous return curves that occur during successive given to strengthen the heart. This intervention raises the days after the acute fall of the cardiac output curve to this cardiac output curve to the level shown in Figure 22- 7, but low level. At point A, the curve at time zero equates with there is no immediate change in the venous return curve. the normal venous return curve to give a cardiac output Therefore, the new cardiac output curve equates with the of about 3 L/min. However, stimulation of the sympa- venous return curve at point G. The cardiac output is now thetic nervous system, caused by this low cardiac out- 5.7 L/min, a value higher than the critical level of 5 liters put, increases the mean systemic filling pressure within required to make the kidneys excrete normal amounts of 30 seconds from 7 to 10.5 mm Hg. This effect shifts the urine. The increased cardiac output, along with the
