Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


within required to make the kidneys excrete normal amounts of 30 seconds from 7 to 10.5 mm Hg. This effect shifts the urine. The increased cardiac output, along with the well- venous return curve upward and to the right to produce known diuretic effect of digitalis, permits the kidneys to the curve labeled “autonomic compensation.” Thus, the eliminate some of the excess fluid. new venous return curve equates with the cardiac output The progressive loss of fluid over a period of several curve at point B. The cardiac output has been improved to days reduces mean systemic filling pressure down to a level of 4 L/min but at the expense of an additional rise 11.5 mm Hg, and the new venous return curve becomes in right atrial pressure to 5 mm Hg. the curve labeled “Several days later.” This curve equates The cardiac output of 4 L/min is still too low for the kid- with the cardiac output curve of the digitalized heart neys to function normally. Therefore, fluid continues to be at point H, at an output of 5 L/min and a right atrial retained and the mean systemic filling pressure rises from pressure of 4.6 mm Hg. This cardiac output is precisely 10.5 to almost 13 mm Hg. Now the venous return curve is that required for normal fluid balance. Therefore, no labeled “2nd day” and equilibrates with the cardiac output additional fluid will be lost, and none will be gained. 279 )nim/L( nruter suonev dna tuptuo caidraC dna tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( nruter suonev UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Consequently, the circulatory system has now stabilized 25 or, in other words, the decompensation of the heart fail- A V ure has been compensated. To state this another way, 20 fi st the final steady- state condition of the circulation is Normal ul a Normal cardiac defined by the crossing point of three curves—the car- 15 venous output curve return B diac output curve, venous return curve, and the critical curve 10 C level for normal fluid balance. The compensatory mech- anisms automatically stabilize the circulation when all 5 Beriberi three curves cross at the same point. A heart disease 0 HEART FAILURE WITH DIASTOLIC −4 −2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 DYSFUNCTION AND NORMAL Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) EJECTION FRACTION Figure 22- 8 Graphic analysis of two types of conditions that can
