Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 DYSFUNCTION AND NORMAL Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) EJECTION FRACTION Figure 22- 8 Graphic analysis of two types of conditions that can cause high-o utput cardiac failure—arteriovenous (AV) fistula and Our discussion thus far has focused mainly on cardiac beriberi heart disease. failure due to decreased contractility of the myocardium following a myocardial infarction or impaired coronary abnormalities of ventricular filling as well as impaired blood flow. However, as discussed earlier in the chapter, contractility and impaired systolic function. Most of the heart failure can occur from any condition that decreases neurohumoral changes in heart failure that have been dis- the heart’s ability to pump enough blood to meet the cussed, including activation of the sympathetic and renin- body’s needs. Heart failure associated with impaired angiotensin system, as well as excessive fluid retention by cardiac contractility is often referred to as systolic heart the kidneys, occur regardless of whether there is normal failure or heart failure with reduced ejection fraction or reduced EF. Heart failure is a heterogeneous syndrome, (HFrEF). As discussed in Chapter 9, the ejection fraction rather than a specific disease, and occurs whenever the (EF), often assessed by echocardiography, is the fraction heart is unable to pump enough blood to meet the needs of the end-d iastolic volume of the left ventricle that is of the body. ejected with each contraction. An EF of 0.6 means that Thus, measurements of EF, although useful, do not 60% of the end- diastolic volume ventricle is pumped with always provide an accurate assessment of cardiac func- each heartbeat. Normal values for EF are considered to be tion. A small thick heart with impaired diastolic filling from 50% to 70%. When the heart muscle is weakened, as may be unable to pump the appropriate stroke volume a result of a myocardial infarction or impaired coronary and cardiac output to meet the body’s needs but could blood flow, the EF is usually reduced, with values below have a normal or elevated EF. This example illustrates the 40% considered to be indicative of HFrEF. limitations of left ventricular EF as a marker of left ven- Heart failure can also be associated with normal EF if tricular function and as a means of categorizing patients the heart muscle becomes thickened and stiff (concentric with heart failure of different causes. hypertrophy), so that filling of the ventricles
