Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tricular function and as a means of categorizing patients the heart muscle becomes thickened and stiff (concentric with heart failure of different causes. hypertrophy), so that filling of the ventricles is impaired, and the ventricles hold a smaller than usual volume of HIGH- OUTPUT CARDIAC FAILURE blood. Under these conditions, the total amount of blood pumped by the heart may not be enough to meet the Figure 22- 8 provides an analysis of two types of high- body’s needs, even though it is pumping with a normal output cardiac failure. One is caused by an arteriove- or even increased EF. This condition is often referred to nous fistula that overloads the heart because of excessive as heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). venous return, even though the pumping capability of During the last 30 to 40 years, a growing proportion the heart is not depressed. The other type is caused by of heart failure patients have presented with HFpEF. Cur- beriberi, in which the venous return is greatly increased rently, over 50% of patients with heart failure patients have because of diminished systemic vascular resistance but, a normal EF. HFpEF occurs more commonly in women at the same time, the pumping capability of the heart is and older adults and especially in those who have obe- depressed. sity, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension, a constellation of disorders often called the cardiometabolic syndrome. Arteriovenous Fistula Increases Venous Return. In these individuals, diastolic dysfunction is characterized The normal black curves of Figure 22- 8 depict the nor- by impairment in the rate of ventricular filling, slowed mal cardiac output and normal venous return curves. relaxation of cardiomyocytes, increased thickness of the These curves equate with each other at point A, which ventricular wall, proliferation of extracellular matrix, and depicts a normal cardiac output of 5 L/min and a normal fibrosis, which contribute to a stiffer left ventricle. right atrial pressure of 0 mm Hg. Although clinicians often classify patients into the Now let us assume that the systemic vascular resistance categories of HFpEF or HFrEF using the EF threshold of (the total peripheral vascular resistance) becomes greatly 50%, most patients with advanced heart failure exhibit decreased because of the opening of a large arteriovenous 280 dna tuptuo caidraC )nim/L( nruter suonev Chapter 22 Cardiac Failure fistula (a direct opening between a large artery and large Bibliography vein). The venous return curve rotates
