Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Sounds; Valvular and Congenital Heart Defects Function of the heart valves was discussed in Chapter 9, The Second Heart Sound Is Associated With Closure where we pointed out that closing of the valves causes of the Aortic and Pulmonary Valves. The second heart audible sounds. Ordinarily, no audible sounds occur when sound results from sudden closure of the semilunar valves the valves open. In this chapter, we first discuss the fac- (aortic and pulmonary valves) at the end of systole. When tors that cause the sounds in the heart under normal and the semilunar valves close, they bulge backward toward abnormal conditions. Then we discuss the overall circula- the ventricles, and their elastic stretch recoils the blood tory changes that occur when valvular or congenital heart back into the arteries, which causes a short period of re- defects are present. verberation of blood back and forth between the walls of the arteries and the semilunar valves, as well as between HEART SOUNDS these valves and the ventricular walls. The vibrations oc- curring in the arterial walls are then transmitted mainly NORMAL HEART SOUNDS along the arteries. When the vibrations of the vessels or ventricles come into contact with a sounding board, such When listening to a normal heart with a stethoscope, one as the chest wall, they create sound that can be heard us- hears a sound usually described as “lub, dub, lub, dub.” ing a stethoscope. The “lub” is associated with closure of the atrioventricular (A- V) valves at the beginning of systole, and the “dub” is Duration and Pitch of First and Second Heart Sounds. associated with closure of the semilunar (aortic and pul- The duration of each of the heart sounds is slightly more monary) valves at the end of systole. The “lub” sound is than 0.10 second, with the first sound about 0.14 second called the first heart sound, and the “dub” is called the sec- and the second about 0.11 second. The reason for the ond heart sound, because the normal pumping cycle of shorter second sound is that the semilunar valves are the heart is considered to start when the A- V valves close tauter than the A- V valves, so they vibrate for a shorter at the onset of ventricular systole (Audio 23- 1). time than do the A- V valves. The audible range of frequency (pitch) in the first and The First
