Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a shorter at the onset of ventricular systole (Audio 23- 1). time than do the A- V valves. The audible range of frequency (pitch) in the first and The First Heart Sound Is Associated With Closure of second heart sounds, as shown in Figure 23- 1, begins at A-V. The main cause of the first heart sound is vibra- the lowest frequency the ear can detect, about 40 cycles/ tion of the taut valves immediately after closure, along sec, and goes up above 500 cycles/sec. When a special with vibration of the adjacent walls of the heart and electronic apparatus is used to record these sounds, a major vessels around the heart. That is, in generating larger proportion of the recorded sound is at frequencies the first heart sound, contraction of the ventricles first and sound levels below the audible range, going down causes sudden backflow of blood against the A- V valves to 3 to 4 cycles/sec and peaking at about 20 cycles/sec, (tricuspid and mitral valves), causing them to close as illustrated by the lower shaded area in Figure 23- 1. and bulge toward the atria until the chordae tendine- For this reason, major portions of the heart sounds can ae abruptly stop the back bulging. The elastic tautness be recorded electronically by phonocardiography, even of the chordae tendineae and valves then causes the though they cannot be heard with a stethoscope. back- surging blood to bounce forward again into each The second heart sound normally has a higher fre- respective ventricle. This mechanism causes the blood quency than the first heart sound for two reasons: (1) and the ventricular walls, as well as the taut valves, to the tautness of the semilunar valves in comparison with vibrate and causes vibrating turbulence in the blood. the much less taut A- V valves; and (2) the greater elas- The vibrations travel through the adjacent tissues to the tic coefficient of the taut arterial walls, which provides chest wall, where they can be heard as sound by using the principal vibrating chambers for the second sound, in the stethoscope. comparison with the much looser, less elastic ventricular 283 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Heart sounds Inaudible and murmurs Aortic area Pulmonic area 100 10 Speech 00 .0.1 11 H ane da r mt s uo rmuT nh ur d re ssshold of audibilityarea 0.001 0.0001 0 8 32 64
