Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


area Pulmonic area 100 10 Speech 00 .0.1 11 H ane da r mt s uo rmuT nh ur d re ssshold of audibilityarea 0.001 0.0001 0 8 32 64 128 256 512102420484096 Frequency in cycles per second Figure 23- 1 Amplitude of different frequency vibrations in the heart sounds and heart murmurs in relationship to the threshold of audibil- ity, showing that the range of sounds that can be heard is between 40 and 520 cycles/sec. (Modified from Butterworth JS, Chassin JL, McGrath JJ: Cardiac Auscultation, 2nd ed. New York: Grune & Strat- ton, 1960.) Tricuspid area Mitral area Figure 23- 2 Chest areas from which sounds from each valve are heard best. chambers, which provides the vibrating system for the first heart sound. The clinician uses these differences to distin- guish special characteristics of the two respective sounds. Chest Surface Areas for Auscultation of Normal Heart Sounds. Listening to the sounds of the body, usually with The Third Heart Sound Occurs at the Beginning of the the aid of a stethoscope, is called auscultation. Figure 23- 2 Middle Third of Diastole. Occasionally, a weak, rum- shows the areas of the chest wall from which the differ- bling third heart sound is heard at the beginning of the ent heart valvular sounds can best be distinguished. Al- middle third of diastole. A logical but unproved explana- though the sounds from all the valves can be heard from tion of this sound is oscillation of blood back and forth all these areas, the cardiologist distinguishes the sounds between the walls of the ventricles initiated by inrushing from the different valves by a process of elimination. That blood from the atria. This is analogous to running water is, he or she moves the stethoscope from one area to an- from a faucet into a paper sack, with the inrushing water other, noting the loudness of the sounds in different areas reverberating back and forth between the walls of the sack and gradually picking out the sound components from to cause vibrations in its walls. The reason the third heart each valve. sound does not occur until the middle third of diastole is The areas for listening to the different heart sounds are believed to be that in the early part of diastole, the ven- not directly over the valves themselves. The aortic area tricles are not filled sufficiently to create even
