Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are believed to be that in the early part of diastole, the ven- not directly over the valves themselves. The aortic area tricles are not filled sufficiently to create even the small is upward along the aorta because of sound transmission amount of elastic tension necessary for reverberation. The up the aorta, and the pulmonic area is upward along the frequency of this sound is usually so low that the ear can- pulmonary artery. The tricuspid area is over the right ven- not hear it, yet it can often be recorded in the phonocar- tricle, and the mitral area is over the apex of the left ven- diogram. The third heart sound may be normally present tricle, which is the portion of the heart nearest the surface in children, adolescents, and young adults but generally of the chest; the heart is rotated so that the remainder of indicates systolic heart failure in older adults. the left ventricle lies more posteriorly. Atrial Contraction—Fourth Heart Sound. An atrial Phonocardiogram. If a microphone specially designed heart sound can sometimes be recorded in the phonocar- to detect low- frequency sound is placed on the chest, diogram, but it can almost never be heard with a stetho- the heart sounds can be amplified and recorded by scope because of its weakness and very low frequency— a high- speed recording apparatus. The recording is usually 20 cycles/sec or less. This sound occurs when called a phonocardiogram, and the heart sounds ap- the atria contract, and presumably, it is caused by the pear as waves, as shown schematically in Figure 23- inrush of blood into the ventricles, which initiates vibra- 3. Recording A is an example of normal heart sounds, tions similar to those of the third heart sound. A fourth showing the vibrations of the first, second, and third heart sound is common in persons who derive benefit heart sounds and even the very weak atrial sound. Note from atrial contraction for ventricular filling as a result of specifically that the third and atrial heart sounds are decreased ventricular wall compliance and increased re- each a very low rumble. The third heart sound can sistance to ventricular filling. For example, a fourth heart be recorded in only one-third to one-half of people, sound is often heard in older patients with left ventricular and the atrial heart sound can be recorded in perhaps hypertrophy. one-fourth of people.
