Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


only one-third to one-half of people, sound is often heard in older patients with left ventricular and the atrial heart sound can be recorded in perhaps hypertrophy. one-fourth of people. 284 2mc/senyD Chapter 23 Heart Valves and Heart Sounds; Valvular and Congenital Heart Defects 1st 2nd 3rd Atrial The lesions of acute rheumatic fever frequently occur A on adjacent valve leaflets simultaneously, so the edges of Normal the leaflets become stuck together. Then, weeks, months, or years later, the lesions become scar tissue, permanently B Aortic stenosis fusing portions of adjacent valve leaflets. Also, the free edges of the leaflets, which are normally filmy and free- C flapping, often become solid scarred masses. Mitral regurgitation A valve in which the leaflets adhere to one another so extensively that blood cannot flow through it normally D is said to be stenosed. Conversely, when the valve edges Aortic regurgitation are so destroyed by scar tissue that they cannot close as E the ventricles contract, regurgitation (backflow) of blood Mitral stenosis occurs when the valve should be closed. Stenosis usually does not occur without the coexistence of at least some F degree of regurgitation, and vice versa. Patent ductus Aging and Aortic Valve Stenosis arteriosus Diastole Systole Diastole Systole With aging, the aortic valve often thickens, becomes cal- cified and stiffer, and may partially obstruct outflow from Figure 23- 3 A—F, Phonocardiograms from normal and abnormal the left ventricle. With increased life expectancy and hearts. aging of the population, aortic valve stenosis has become the most common heart valve disease. VALVULAR LESIONS Stenosis of a previously normal aortic valve, often called senile calcific aortic valve stenosis, is characterized Rheumatic Valvular Lesions by valve calcium deposition and ossification, which lead Rheumatic fever is an autoimmune disease in which the to narrowing of the aortic valve orifice. As a compensa- heart valves are likely to be damaged or destroyed. The tory response to the increased workload imposed on the disease is usually initiated by a streptococcal toxin. heart by the stenotic aortic valve, the left ventricle under- The sequence of events almost always begins with a goes concentric hypertrophy. This type of hypertrophy preliminary streptococcal infection caused specifically by is associated with increased left ventricular wall thick- group A hemolytic streptococci. These bacteria initially ness, which permits the heart to pump with greater vigor cause a sore throat, scarlet fever, or middle ear infection. against
