Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


wall thick- group A hemolytic streptococci. These bacteria initially ness, which permits the heart to pump with greater vigor cause a sore throat, scarlet fever, or middle ear infection. against the partially obstructed outflow. An increasing However, the streptococci also release several different pressure gradient then develops across the calcified valve, proteins against which the person’s reticuloendothelial reaching 75 to 100 mm Hg in severe cases of aortic valve system produces antibodies. The antibodies react not only stenosis. with the streptococcal protein but also with other pro- The hypertrophied left ventricle also becomes more tein tissues of the body, often causing severe immunologic fibrotic and tends to be ischemic because of impaired damage. These reactions continue to take place as long as microcirculatory perfusion, although some patients may the antibodies persist in the blood—1 year or more. also have atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries. The Rheumatic fever particularly causes damage in certain ejection fraction may be normal, and the patient may be susceptible areas, such as the heart valves. The degree of able to maintain adequate cardiac output under resting heart valve damage is directly correlated with the concen- conditions, but with even moderate exercise, symptoms tration and persistence of the antibodies. The principles of of heart failure may appear. As the stenosis progressively immunity that relate to this type of reaction are discussed in worsens, there are reductions in systolic heart function Chapter 35, and it is noted in Chapter 32 that acute glomeru- and inability of the left ventricle to develop enough pres- lar nephritis of the kidneys has a similar immunologic basis. sure to pump effectively against the load imposed by the In persons with rheumatic fever, large hemorrhagic, partially obstructed aortic valve. Consequently, symp- fibrinous, bulbous lesions grow along the inflamed edges toms of congestive heart failure appear, with reductions of the heart valves. Because the mitral valve undergoes in stroke volume and cardiac output. more trauma during valvular action than any of the other Calcific aortic valve stenosis usually does not become valves, it is the one most often seriously damaged, and the severe enough to draw clinical attention until after age aortic valve is the second most frequently damaged. The 70. Important symptoms of aortic valve stenosis are right heart valves—that is, the tricuspid and pulmonary exertion- related angina, reduced exercise tolerance, and valves—are usually affected much less severely, probably congestive heart failure. Shortness
