Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


aortic valve stenosis are right heart valves—that is, the tricuspid and pulmonary exertion- related angina, reduced exercise tolerance, and valves—are usually affected much less severely, probably congestive heart failure. Shortness of breath (dyspnea) is because the low- pressure stresses that act on these valves due to increased left ventricular filling pressure or inabil- are slight compared with the high- pressure stresses that ity to increase cardiac output adequately with exercise. act on the left heart valves. Early recognition and management of aortic stenosis are 285 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation important because untreated symptomatic aortic valve Diastolic Murmur of Mitral Stenosis. In persons with stenosis is progressive and will ultimately be fatal. mitral stenosis, blood passes with difficulty through the The development of transcatheter aortic valve replace- stenosed mitral valve from the left atrium into the left ventri- ment technologies has provided new therapeutic oppor- cle, and because the pressure in the left atrium seldom rises tunities, especially for older patients, in whom traditional above 30 mm Hg, a large pressure differential forcing blood surgical procedures cannot be performed or are associ- from the left atrium into the left ventricle does not develop. ated with high risk. Consequently, the abnormal sounds heard in mitral stenosis (see recording E, Figure 23- 3; Audio 23-5) are usually weak Heart Murmurs Caused by Valvular Lesions and of very low frequency, so most of the sound spectrum is below the low-f requency end of human hearing. As shown by the phonocardiograms in Figure 23- 3, many During the early part of diastole, a left ventricle with a abnormal heart sounds, known as heart murmurs, occur stenotic mitral valve has so little blood in it, and its walls when abnormalities of the valves are present, as discussed are so flabby, that blood does not reverberate back and here. forth between the walls of the ventricle. For this reason, even in persons with severe mitral stenosis, no murmur Systolic Murmur of Aortic Stenosis. In persons with may be heard during the first third of diastole. Then, after aortic stenosis, blood is ejected from the left ventricle partial filling, the ventricle has stretched enough for blood through only a small fibrous opening of the aortic valve. to reverberate, and a low rumbling murmur begins. Because of the resistance to ejection, the blood pressure in the left ventricle sometimes rises as high as 300 mm Hg; Phonocardiograms
