Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to reverberate, and a low rumbling murmur begins. Because of the resistance to ejection, the blood pressure in the left ventricle sometimes rises as high as 300 mm Hg; Phonocardiograms of Valvular Murmurs. Phonocar- the pressure in the aorta is still normal. Thus, a nozzle ef- diograms B, C, D, and E of Figure 23- 3 show, respectively, fect is created during systole, with blood jetting at tremen- idealized records obtained from patients with aortic ste- dous velocity through the small opening of the valve. This nosis, mitral regurgitation, aortic regurgitation, and mi- phenomenon causes severe turbulence of the blood in the tral stenosis. It is obvious from these phonocardiograms root of the aorta. The turbulent blood impinging against that the aortic stenotic lesion causes the loudest murmur, the aortic walls causes intense vibration, and a loud mur- and the mitral stenotic lesion causes the weakest murmur. mur occurs during systole (see recording B, Figure 23- 3; The phonocardiograms show how the intensity of the Audio 23- 2) and is transmitted throughout the superior murmurs varies during different portions of systole and thoracic aorta and even into the large arteries of the neck. diastole, and the relative timing of each murmur is also This sound is harsh, and in persons with severe stenosis evident. Note especially that the murmurs of aortic ste- it may be so loud that it can be heard several feet away nosis and mitral regurgitation occur only during systole, from the patient. Also, the sound vibrations can often be whereas the murmurs of aortic regurgitation and mitral felt with the hand on the upper chest and lower neck, a stenosis occur only during diastole. phenomenon known as a thrill. Diastolic Murmur of Aortic Regurgitation. In aortic ABNORMAL CIRCULATORY DYNAMICS regurgitation, no abnormal sound is heard during systole, IN VALVULAR HEART DISEASE but during diastole, blood flows backward from the high- pressure aorta into the left ventricle, causing a “blowing” CIRCULATORY DYNAMICS IN AORTIC murmur of relatively high pitch, with a swishing quality STENOSIS AND AORTIC REGURGITATION heard maximally over the left ventricle (see recording D, Figure 23- 3; Audio 23- 3). This murmur results from the In aortic stenosis, the contracting left ventricle fails to turbulence of blood jetting backward into the blood al- empty adequately, whereas in aortic regurgitation, blood ready in the low- pressure diastolic left ventricle. flows backward into the ventricle from the
