Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of blood jetting backward into the blood al- empty adequately, whereas in aortic regurgitation, blood ready in the low- pressure diastolic left ventricle. flows backward into the ventricle from the aorta after the ventricle has just pumped the blood into the aorta. There- Systolic Murmur of Mitral Regurgitation. In persons fore, in both cases, the net stroke volume output of the with mitral regurgitation, blood flows backward through heart is reduced. the mitral valve into the left atrium during systole. This Several important compensations take place that can backward flow also causes a high- frequency blowing, ameliorate the severity of the circulatory defects. Some of swishing sound (see recording C, Figure 23- 3; Audio these compensations are described in the following sections. 23- 4) similar to that of aortic regurgitation but occurring during systole rather than diastole. It is transmitted most Hypertrophy of Left Ventricle. In both aortic stenosis strongly into the left atrium. However, the left atrium is so and aortic regurgitation, the left ventricular muscula- deep within the chest that it is difficult to hear this sound ture hypertrophies because of the increased ventricular directly over the atrium. As a result, the sound of mi- workload. In regurgitation, the left ventricular chamber tral regurgitation is transmitted to the chest wall mainly also enlarges to hold all the regurgitant blood from the through the left ventricle to the apex of the heart. aorta. This type of hypertrophy, with enlargement of the 286 Chapter 23 Heart Valves and Heart Sounds; Valvular and Congenital Heart Defects Normal Eccentric LVH Concentric LVH Right Left atrium atrium Figure 23- 4 Comparison of the left ventricle in a normal heart, a heart with eccentric left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), and a heart with concentric LVH. Left ventricular Right Left Dilated Hypertrophied ventricle ventricle left ventricle left ventricle mass increases in eccentric and con- centric LVH but there is an increase • Aortic/mitral valve regurgitation • Aortic valve stenosis in left ventricular cavity size in ec- • Ventricular septal defect • Chronic hypertension centric LVH, whereas wall thickness • Systolic dysfunction increases in concentric LVH. ventricular chamber, is often referred to as eccentric hy- action increases the workload and oxygen consumption of pertrophy (Figure 23- 4). Sometimes, the left ventricular the ventricle, necessitating increased coronary blood flow muscle mass increases fourfold to fivefold, creating a tre- to deliver this oxygen. The high wall tension of the
