Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Sometimes, the left ventricular the ventricle, necessitating increased coronary blood flow muscle mass increases fourfold to fivefold, creating a tre- to deliver this oxygen. The high wall tension of the ventricle, mendously large left side of the heart. however, causes marked decreases in coronary flow during When the aortic valve is seriously stenosed, the hyper- systole, particularly in the subendocardial vessels. Intraven- trophied muscle may allow the left ventricle to develop tricular diastolic pressure is also increased when there is as much as 400 mm Hg of intraventricular pressure at aortic valve stenosis, and this increased pressure may cause systolic peak. This type of concentric hypertrophy is asso- compression of the inner layers of the heart muscle and re- ciated with thickened ventricular walls and a smaller duced coronary blood flow. Thus, severe aortic valve steno- ventricular chamber (see Figure 23- 4) and also occurs sis often causes ischemia of the heart muscle. in other circumstances where afterload of the heart is With aortic regurgitation, the intraventricular diastolic increased, such as in chronic hypertension. pressure also increases, compressing the inner layer of the In persons with severe aortic regurgitation, sometimes heart muscle and decreasing coronary blood flow. Aortic the enlarged left ventricle can pump a stroke volume out- diastolic pressure decreases during aortic regurgitation, put as great as 250 milliliters, although as much as 75% which can also decrease coronary blood flow and cause of this blood returns to the ventricle during diastole, and ischemia of the heart muscle. only 25% flows through the aorta to the body. Eventual Failure of Left Ventricle and Development Increase in Blood Volume. Another effect that helps of Pulmonary Edema. In the early stages of aortic steno- compensate for the diminished net pumping by the left sis or aortic regurgitation, the intrinsic ability of the left ventricle is increased blood volume. This increased volume ventricle to adapt to increasing loads prevents significant results from the following: (1) an initial slight decrease in abnormalities in circulatory function in the person dur- arterial pressure; (2) nervous reflexes and hormonal chang- ing rest, other than the increased work output required es induced by the decrease in pressure. These mechanisms of the left ventricle. Therefore, considerable degrees of together diminish renal output of urine, causing blood aortic stenosis or aortic regurgitation often occur before volume to increase and the mean arterial pressure to r eturn the person knows
