Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


together diminish renal output of urine, causing blood aortic stenosis or aortic regurgitation often occur before volume to increase and the mean arterial pressure to r eturn the person knows that he or she has serious heart disease to normal. Also, red blood cell mass eventually increases (e.g., a resting left ventricular systolic pressure as high as because of a slight degree of tissue hypoxia. 200 mm Hg in persons with aortic stenosis or a left ven- The increase in blood volume tends to increase venous tricular stroke volume output as high as twice normal in return to the heart, which, in turn, causes the left ventricle persons with aortic regurgitation). to pump with the extra power required to overcome the Beyond a critical stage in these aortic valve lesions, the abnormal pumping dynamics. left ventricle finally cannot keep up with the work demand. As a consequence, the left ventricle dilates and cardiac out- Aortic Valvular Lesions May Be Associated With put begins to fall; blood simultaneously dams up in the left Inadequate Coronary Blood Flow. When a person has atrium and in the lungs behind the failing left ventricle. The stenosis of the aortic valve, the ventricular muscle must de- left atrial pressure rises progressively, and at mean left atrial velop a high tension to create the high intraventricular pres- pressures above 25 to 40 mm Hg, serious edema appears in sure needed to force blood through the stenosed valve. This the lungs, as discussed in detail in Chapter 39. 287 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation DYNAMICS OF MITRAL STENOSIS AND CIRCULATORY DYNAMICS DURING MITRAL REGURGITATION EXERCISE IN PATIENTS WITH VALVULAR LESIONS In persons with mitral stenosis, blood flow from the left atrium into the left ventricle is impeded and, in persons During exercise, increased blood flow is required to provide with mitral regurgitation, much of the blood that has additional oxygen and nutrients to the exercising muscles flowed into the left ventricle during diastole leaks back and remove waste products of increased metabolism. Con- into the left atrium during systole rather than being sequently, increased quantities of venous blood are returned pumped into the aorta. Therefore, either of these condi- to the heart from the peripheral circulation. Therefore, all the tions reduces net movement of blood from the left atrium dynamic abnormalities that occur in the different types of into the left ventricle. valvular heart disease become
