Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Therefore, all the tions reduces net movement of blood from the left atrium dynamic abnormalities that occur in the different types of into the left ventricle. valvular heart disease become exacerbated. Even in persons with mild valvular heart disease, in which the symptoms may Pulmonary Edema in Mitral Valvular Disease. The be unrecognizable at rest, severe symptoms often develop buildup of blood in the left atrium causes a progressive during heavy exercise. For example, in patients with aortic increase in left atrial pressure, eventually resulting in the valvular lesions, exercise can cause acute left ventricular fail- development of serious pulmonary edema. Ordinarily, le- ure followed by acute pulmonary edema. Also, in patients thal edema does not occur until the mean left atrial pres- with mitral disease, exercise can cause so much damming sure rises above 25 mm Hg, and sometimes as high as 40 of blood in the lungs that serious or even lethal pulmonary mm Hg, because the lung lymphatic vessels enlarge many edema may ensue in as little as 10 minutes. times and can carry fluid rapidly away from the lung tis- Even in mild to moderate cases of valvular disease, the sues. patient’s cardiac reserve diminishes in proportion to the severity of the valvular dysfunction. That is, the cardiac Enlarged Left Atrium and Atrial Fibrillation. The high output does not increase as much as it should during left atrial pressure in mitral valvular disease also causes exercise. Therefore, the muscles of the body fatigue rap- progressive enlargement of the left atrium, which in- idly because of too little increase in muscle blood flow. creases the distance that the cardiac electrical excitatory impulse must travel in the atrial wall. This pathway may ABNORMAL CIRCULATORY DYNAMICS eventually become so long that it predisposes to the de- IN CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS velopment of excitatory signal circus movements, as dis- cussed in Chapter 13. Therefore, in late stages of mitral Occasionally, the heart or its associated blood vessels are valvular disease, especially in mitral stenosis, atrial fibril- malformed during fetal life; the defect is called a congeni- lation often occurs. This development further reduces the tal anomaly. There are three major types of congenital pumping effectiveness of the heart and causes further car- anomalies of the heart and its associated vessels: (1) steno- diac debility. sis of the channel of blood flow at some point in the heart or in a
