Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


further car- anomalies of the heart and its associated vessels: (1) steno- diac debility. sis of the channel of blood flow at some point in the heart or in a closely allied major blood vessel; (2) an anomaly Compensation in Early Mitral Valvular Disease. that allows blood to flow backward from the left side of As also occurs in aortic valvular disease and in many the heart or aorta to the right side of the heart or pul- types of congenital heart disease, the blood volume monary artery, thus failing to flow through the systemic increases in mitral valvular disease principally because circulation, called a left- to- right shunt; and (3) an anomaly of diminished excretion of water and salt by the kid- that allows blood to flow directly from the right side of neys. This increased blood volume increases venous the heart into the left side of the heart, thus failing to flow return to the heart, thereby helping overcome the through the lungs, called a right- to- left shunt. effect of the cardiac debility. Therefore, after compen- The effects of the different stenotic lesions are easily sation, cardiac output may fall only minimally until the understood. For instance, congenital aortic valve stenosis late stages of mitral valvular disease, even though the results in the same dynamic effects as aortic valve stenosis left atrial pressure is rising. caused by other valvular lesions, namely, cardiac hyper- As the left atrial pressure rises, blood begins to dam up trophy, heart muscle ischemia, reduced cardiac output, in the lungs, eventually all the way back to the pulmonary and a tendency to develop serious pulmonary edema. artery. In addition, incipient edema of the lungs causes Another type of congenital stenosis is coarctation of the pulmonary arteriolar constriction. These two effects aorta, often occurring above the level of the diaphragm. This together increase systolic pulmonary arterial pressure stenosis causes the arterial pressure in the upper part of the and also right ventricular pressure, sometimes to as high body (above the level of the coarctation) to be much greater as 60 mm Hg, which is more than double normal. This than the pressure in the lower body because of the great increased pressure, in turn, causes hypertrophy of the resistance to blood flow through the coarctation to the lower right side of the heart, which partially compensates for its body; part of the blood must
