Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


causes hypertrophy of the resistance to blood flow through the coarctation to the lower right side of the heart, which partially compensates for its body; part of the blood must go around the coarctation increased workload. through small collateral arteries, as discussed in Chapter 19. 288 Chapter 23 Heart Valves and Heart Sounds; Valvular and Congenital Heart Defects Aorta through the ductus arteriosus ceases suddenly at birth and, in fact, blood begins to flow backward through the ductus, Ductus arteriosus from the aorta into the pulmonary artery. This new state of backward blood flow causes the ductus arteriosus to be- come occluded within a few hours to a few days in most Head and upper babies, so blood flow through the ductus does not persist. extremities The ductus is believed to close because the oxygen concen- tration of the aortic blood now flowing through it is about Pulmonary Left twice as high as that of the blood flowing from the pulmo- artery pulmonary nary artery into the ductus during fetal life. The oxygen artery presumably constricts the muscle in the ductus wall. This Right phenomenon is discussed further in Chapter 84. Left lung lung Unfortunately, in about 1 of every 5500 babies, the ductus does not close, causing the condition known as patent ductus arteriosus, which is shown in Figure 23- 5. Dynamics of the Circulation With a Persistent Patent Ductus During the early months of an infant’s life, a patent ductus usually does not cause severely abnormal function. How- Trunk and lower ever, as the child grows older, the differential between extremities the high pressure in the aorta and the lower pressure in Figure 23- 5 Patent ductus arteriosus, showing by the blue color that the pulmonary artery progressively increases, with a cor- venous blood changes into oxygenated blood at different points in responding increase in the backward flow of blood from the circulation. Inset, Backflow of blood from the aorta into the pul- the aorta into the pulmonary artery. Also, the high aortic monary artery and then through the lungs for a second time. blood pressure usually causes the diameter of the partially open ductus to increase with time, making the condition PATENT DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS—A LEFT- even worse. TO- RIGHT SHUNT Recirculation Through the Lungs. In an older child with During fetal life, the lungs are collapsed, and the elastic com- a patent ductus, one-half to two-thirds of
