Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


TO- RIGHT SHUNT Recirculation Through the Lungs. In an older child with During fetal life, the lungs are collapsed, and the elastic com- a patent ductus, one-half to two-thirds of the aortic blood pression of the lungs that keeps the alveoli collapsed keeps flows backward through the ductus into the pulmonary most of the lung blood vessels collapsed as well. Therefore, artery, then through the lungs, and finally back into the resistance to blood flow through the lungs is so great that left ventricle and aorta, passing through the lungs and left the pulmonary arterial pressure is high in the fetus. Also, side of the heart two or more times for every one time because of low resistance to blood flow from the aorta that it passes through the systemic circulation. People through the large vessels of the placenta, the pressure in the with this condition do not show cyanosis until later in life, aorta of the fetus is lower than normal—in fact, lower than when the heart fails or the lungs become congested. Indeed, in the pulmonary artery. This phenomenon causes almost early in life, the arterial blood is often better oxygenat- all the pulmonary arterial blood to flow through a special ed than normal because of the extra times that it passes artery present in the fetus that connects the pulmonary through the lungs. artery with the aorta (Figure 23- 5), the ductus arteriosus, thus bypassing the lungs. This mechanism allows immedi- Diminished Cardiac and Respiratory Reserve. The ma- ate recirculation of the blood through the systemic arteries jor effects of patent ductus arteriosus on the patient are de- of the fetus without the blood going through the lungs. This creased cardiac and respiratory reserve. The left ventricle is lack of blood flow through the lungs is not detrimental to pumping about two or more times the normal cardiac out- the fetus because the blood is oxygenated by the placenta. put, and the maximum that it can pump after hypertrophy of the heart has occurred is about four to seven times nor- Closure of Ductus Arteriosus After Birth. As soon as a mal. Therefore, during exercise, the net blood flow through baby is born and begins to breathe, the lungs inflate. Not the remainder of the body can never increase to the lev- only do the alveoli fill with air, but also the resistance to els required for
