Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the lungs inflate. Not the remainder of the body can never increase to the lev- only do the alveoli fill with air, but also the resistance to els required for strenuous activity. With even moderately blood flow through the pulmonary vascular tree decreases strenuous exercise, the person is likely to become weak and tremendously, allowing the pulmonary arterial pressure to may even faint from momentary heart failure. fall. Simultaneously, the aortic pressure rises because of The high pressures in the pulmonary vessels caused sudden cessation of blood flow from the aorta through the by excess flow through the lungs may also lead to pulmo- placenta. Thus, the pressure in the pulmonary artery falls, nary congestion and pulmonary edema. As a result of the while that in the aorta rises. As a result, forward blood flow excessive load on the heart, and especially because the 289 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation pulmonary congestion becomes progressively more severe Stenosis of Aorta pulmonary artery with age, most patients with uncorrected patent ductus die from heart disease between the ages of 20 and 40 years. Heart Sounds: Machinery Murmur Head and upper extremities In a newborn infant with patent ductus arteriosus, occa- sionally no abnormal heart sounds are heard because the quantity of reverse blood flow through the ductus may Septal be insufficient to cause a heart murmur. However, as the defect baby grows older, to 1 to 3 years of age, a harsh blowing Right Left lung murmur begins to be heard in the pulmonary artery area lung of the chest, as shown in recording F, Figure 23- 3. This sound is much more intense during systole when the aor- tic pressure is high and much less intense during diastole when the aortic pressure falls low, so that the murmur waxes and wanes with each beat of the heart, creating the so- called machinery murmur. Surgical Treatment Trunk and lower Surgical treatment of patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is extremities simple; one need only ligate the patent ductus or divide Figure 23- 6 Tetralogy of Fallot, showing by the blue color that most it and then close the two ends. This procedure was one of the venous blood is shunted from the right ventricle into the aorta of the first successful heart surgeries ever performed. without passing through the lungs. Catheter- based devices often are used to close PDAs in infants or children
