Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ventricle into the aorta of the first successful heart surgeries ever performed. without passing through the lungs. Catheter- based devices often are used to close PDAs in infants or children who are large enough to have the pro- of Fallot is the shunting of blood past the lungs without cedure. A small metal coil or other occlusion device is its becoming oxygenated. As much as 75% of the venous passed up through the catheter and placed in the PDA to blood returning to the heart passes directly from the right block blood flow through the vessel. ventricle into the aorta without becoming oxygenated. This can lead to cyanosis (blue coloration) of the baby’s TETRALOGY OF FALLOT—A RIGHT- TO- skin. Other signs include high right ventricular pressures, LEFT SHUNT right ventricular enlargement, and a left- to- right shunt through the interventricular septum, which can be visual- Tetralogy of Fallot is shown in Figure 23- 6; it is the most ized by echocardiography. common cause of blue baby. Most of the blood bypasses the lungs, so the aortic blood is mainly unoxygenated Surgical Treatment. Tetralogy of Fallot can often be venous blood. In this condition, four abnormalities of the treated successfully with surgery. The usual procedure is heart occur simultaneously: to open the pulmonary stenosis, close the septal defect, 1. The aorta originates from the right ventricle rather and reconstruct the flow pathway into the aorta. When than the left, or it overrides a hole in the septum, as surgery is successful, the average life expectancy increases shown in Figure 23- 6, receiving blood from both from only 3 to 4 years to 50 or more years. ventricles. 2. Because the pulmonary artery is stenosed, much CAUSES OF CONGENITAL ANOMALIES lower than normal amounts of blood pass from the right ventricle into the lungs; instead, most of the Congenital heart disease is not uncommon, occurring blood passes directly into the aorta, thus bypassing in about 8 of every 1000 live births. One of the most the lungs. common causes of congenital heart defects is a viral 3. Blood from the left ventricle flows through a ven- infection in the mother during the first trimester of tricular septal hole into the right ventricle and then pregnancy when the fetal heart is being formed. Defects into the aorta or directly into the aorta that over- are particularly prone to develop when the expectant rides
