Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and then pregnancy when the fetal heart is being formed. Defects into the aorta or directly into the aorta that over- are particularly prone to develop when the expectant rides this hole. mother contracts German measles (rubella) during the 4. Because the right side of the heart must pump large first trimester of pregnancy. Taking certain medications, quantities of blood against the high pressure in the such as angiotensin- converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors aorta, its musculature is highly developed, causing and acne medications (e.g., isotretinoin), and alcohol or an enlarged right ventricle. drug abuse during pregnancy also increases the risk for heart defects in the developing fetus. Abnormal Circulatory Dynamics. It is readily apparent Some congenital defects of the heart are hereditary that the major physiological difficulty caused by tetralogy because the same defect has been known to occur in 290 Chapter 23 Heart Valves and Heart Sounds; Valvular and Congenital Heart Defects identical twins, as well as in succeeding generations. for this is that the coronary vasculature typically does not Children of patients surgically treated for congenital heart increase to the same extent as the mass of cardiac muscle disease have about a 10 times greater chance of having increases. The second reason is that fibrosis often develops congenital heart disease than other children. Congenital in the muscle, especially in the subendocardial muscle where defects of the heart are also frequently associated with the coronary blood flow is poor, with fibrous tissue replacing other congenital defects of the baby’s body. degenerating muscle fibers. Because of the disproportion- ate increase in muscle mass relative to coronary blood flow, USE OF EXTRACORPOREAL relative ischemia may develop as the cardiac muscle hyper- CIRCULATION DURING CARDIAC trophies, and coronary blood flow insufficiency may ensue. SURGERY Anginal pain is therefore a frequent accompaniment of car- diac hypertrophy associated with valvular and congenital It is almost impossible to repair intracardiac defects sur- heart disease. Enlargement of the heart is also associated gically while the heart is still pumping. Therefore, many with a greater risk for developing arrhythmias, which in turn types of artificial heart- lung machines have been developed can lead to further impairment of cardiac function and sud- to take the place of the heart and lungs during the course den death because of fibrillation. of an operation. Such a system is called extracorporeal cir- culation. The system consists principally of a pump and
