Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


means generalized inadequate blood This situation can result from the following: (1) exces- flow through the body to the extent that the body tis- sive metabolic rate, so even a normal cardiac output is sues are damaged, especially because too little oxygen inadequate; or (2) abnormal tissue perfusion patterns, so and other nutrients are delivered to the tissue cells. Even most of the cardiac output is passing through blood vessels the cardiovascular system itself—the heart musculature, besides those that supply the local tissues with nutrition. walls of the blood vessels, vasomotor system, and other The specific causes of shock are discussed later in this circulatory parts—begins to deteriorate, so the shock, chapter. For the present, it is important to note that all of once begun, is prone to become progressively worse. them lead to inadequate delivery of nutrients to critical tissues and critical organs, as well as inadequate removal PHYSIOLOGICAL CAUSES OF SHOCK of cellular waste products from the tissues. CIRCULATORY SHOCK CAUSED BY WHAT HAPPENS TO THE ARTERIAL DECREASED CARDIAC OUTPUT PRESSURE IN CIRCULATORY SHOCK? Shock usually results from inadequate cardiac output. In the minds of many physicians, the arterial pressure Therefore, any condition that reduces the cardiac out- level is the principal measure of adequacy of circulatory put far below normal may lead to circulatory shock. Two function. However, the arterial pressure can often be seri- types of factors can severely reduce cardiac output: ously misleading. At times, a person may be in severe 1. Cardiac abnormalities that decrease the ability of shock and still have an almost normal arterial pressure the heart to pump blood. These abnormalities in- because of powerful nervous reflexes that keep the pres- clude in particular myocardial infarction but also sure from falling. At other times, the arterial pressure can toxic states of the heart, severe heart valve dys- fall to half of normal, but the person still has normal tissue function, heart arrhythmias, and other conditions. perfusion and is not in shock. The circulatory shock that results from diminished In most types of shock, especially shock caused by cardiac pumping ability is called cardiogenic shock. severe blood loss, the arterial blood pressure decreases This condition is discussed in Chapter 22, where it at the same time the cardiac output decreases, although is noted that as many as 70% of people who experi- usually not as much. ence cardiogenic shock do not survive.
