Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


at the same time the cardiac output decreases, although is noted that as many as 70% of people who experi- usually not as much. ence cardiogenic shock do not survive. 2. Factors that decrease venous return also decrease TISSUE DETERIORATION IS THE END cardiac output because the heart cannot pump RESULT OF CIRCULATORY SHOCK blood that does not flow into it. The most com- mon cause of decreased venous return is dimin- Once circulatory shock reaches a critical state of severity, ished blood volume, but venous return can also be regardless of its initiating cause, the shock itself leads to reduced as a result of decreased vascular tone, espe- more shock. That is, the inadequate blood flow causes the cially of the venous blood reservoirs, or obstruction body tissues to begin deteriorating, including the heart to blood flow at some point in the circulation, espe- and circulatory system. This deterioration causes even cially in the venous return pathway to the heart. greater decreases in cardiac output, and a vicious cycle ensues, with progressively increasing circulatory shock, CIRCULATORY SHOCK WITHOUT less adequate tissue perfusion, and more shock until death DIMINISHED CARDIAC OUTPUT occurs. It is with this late stage of circulatory shock that we are especially concerned because appropriate physi- Occasionally, cardiac output is normal or even more than ological treatment can often reverse the rapid slide to normal, yet the person is in a state of circulatory shock. death. 293 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation STAGES OF SHOCK fall to zero when about 40% to 45% of the total blood vol- ume has been removed. Because the characteristics of circulatory shock change Sympathetic Reflex Compensations in Shock—Their with different degrees of severity, shock is often divided into the following three major stages: Special Value to Maintain Arterial Pressure. The de- 1. A nonprogressive stage (sometimes called the com- crease in arterial pressure after hemorrhage, as well as de- pensated stage), in which the normal circulatory creases in pressures in the pulmonary arteries and veins compensatory mechanisms eventually cause full re- in the thorax, cause powerful sympathetic reflexes (initi- covery without help from outside therapy. ated mainly by the arterial baroreceptors and other vas- 2. A progressive stage, in which, without therapy, the cular stretch receptors, as explained in Chapter 18). These shock becomes steadily worse until death occurs. reflexes stimulate the sympathetic vasoconstrictor system 3. An irreversible stage, in
