Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


without therapy, the cular stretch receptors, as explained in Chapter 18). These shock becomes steadily worse until death occurs. reflexes stimulate the sympathetic vasoconstrictor system 3. An irreversible stage, in which the shock has pro- in most tissues of the body, resulting in three important gressed to such an extent that all forms of known effects: therapy are inadequate to save the person’s life 1. The arterioles constrict in most parts of the system- even though, for the moment, the person is still ic circulation, thereby increasing the total periph- alive. eral resistance. We will now discuss the stages of circulatory shock 2. The veins and venous reservoirs constrict, thereby caused by decreased blood volume, which illustrate the helping maintain adequate venous return, despite basic principles. Then we will consider special character- diminished blood volume. istics of shock initiated by other causes. 3. Heart activity increases markedly, sometimes in- creasing the heart rate from the normal value of 72 beats/min to as high as 160 to 180 beats/min. SHOCK CAUSED BY HYPOVOLEMIA— In the absence of the sympathetic reflexes, only 15% to HEMORRHAGIC SHOCK 20% of the blood volume can be removed over a period Hypovolemia means diminished blood volume. Hemor- of 30 minutes before a person dies; in contrast, a per- rhage is the most common cause of hypovolemic shock. son can sustain a 30% to 40% loss of blood volume when Hemorrhage decreases the filling pressure of the circula- the reflexes are intact. Therefore, these reflexes extend tion and, as a consequence, decreases venous return. As the amount of blood loss that can occur without caus- a result, the cardiac output falls below normal, and shock ing death to about twice that which is possible in their may ensue. absence. Relationship of Bleeding Volume to Greater Effect of Sympathetic Nervous Reflexes in Cardiac Output and Arterial Pressure Maintaining Arterial Pressure Than in Maintaining Figure 24- 1 shows the approximate effects on cardiac Cardiac Output. Referring again to Figure 24- 1, note output and arterial pressure of removing blood from the that the arterial pressure is maintained at or near nor- circulatory system over a period of about 30 minutes. mal levels in the hemorrhaging person longer than is the About 10% of the total blood volume can be removed cardiac output. The reason for this difference is that the with almost no effect on arterial pressure or cardiac
