Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the About 10% of the total blood volume can be removed cardiac output. The reason for this difference is that the with almost no effect on arterial pressure or cardiac out- sympathetic reflexes are geared more for maintaining ar- put, but greater blood loss usually diminishes the cardiac terial pressure than for maintaining cardiac output. They output first and later the arterial pressure, both of which increase the arterial pressure mainly by increasing the to- tal peripheral resistance, which has no beneficial effect on cardiac output. However, the sympathetic constriction of the veins is important to keep venous return and cardiac Arterial output from falling too much, in addition to their role in 100 pressure maintaining arterial pressure. Especially interesting is the second plateau occur- ring at about 50 mm Hg in the arterial pressure curve of 50 Cardiac Figure 24- 1. This second plateau results from activation output of the central nervous system ischemic response, which causes extreme stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system when the brain begins to experience lack of oxy- 0 gen or excess buildup of carbon dioxide, as discussed in 0 10 20 30 40 50 Chapter 18. This effect of the central nervous system isch- % of total blood removed emic response can be called the “last- ditch stand” of the Figure 24- 1 Effect of hemorrhage on cardiac output and arterial sympathetic reflexes in their attempt to keep the arterial pressure. pressure from falling too low. 294 dna tuptuo caidraC erusserp lairetra )lamron fo %( Chapter 24 Circulatory Shock and Its Treatment Protection of Coronary and Cerebral Blood Flow by more shock, and the condition becomes a vicious cycle the Reflexes. A special value of the maintenance of nor- that eventually leads to deterioration of the circulation mal arterial pressure, even in the presence of decreas- and to death. ing cardiac output, is protection of blood flow through Nonprogressive Shock—Compensated the coronary and cerebral circulations. The sympathetic Shock stimulation does not cause significant constriction of the cerebral or cardiac vessels. In addition, in both vascular If shock is not severe enough to cause its own progres- beds, local blood flow autoregulation is excellent, which sion, the person eventually recovers. Therefore, shock of prevents moderate decreases in arterial pressure from sig- this lesser degree is called nonprogressive shock or com- nificantly decreasing their blood flows. Therefore, blood pensated shock, meaning that the sympathetic reflexes
