Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


moderate decreases in arterial pressure from sig- this lesser degree is called nonprogressive shock or com- nificantly decreasing their blood flows. Therefore, blood pensated shock, meaning that the sympathetic reflexes flow through the heart and brain is maintained essentially and other factors compensate enough to prevent further at normal levels as long as the mean arterial pressure does deterioration of the circulation. not fall below about 70 mm Hg, despite the fact that blood The factors that cause a person to recover from mod- flow in some other areas of the body might be decreased erate degrees of shock are the negative feedback control to as little as one-third to one-quarter normal by this time mechanisms of the circulation that attempt to return car- because of vasoconstriction. diac output and arterial pressure back to normal levels. They include the following: PROGRESSIVE AND NONPROGRESSIVE 1. Baroreceptor reflexes, which elicit powerful sympa- HEMORRHAGIC SHOCK thetic stimulation of the circulation 2. Central nervous system ischemic response, which Figure 24-2 shows an experiment that demonstrates elicits even more powerful sympathetic stimulation the effects of different degrees of sudden acute hem- throughout the body but is not activated significant- orrhage on the subsequent course of arterial pressure. ly until the arterial pressure falls below 50 mm Hg The animals in this experiment were anesthetized and 3. Reverse stress- relaxation of the circulatory system, bled rapidly until their arterial pressures fell to differ- which causes the blood vessels to contract around ent levels. The animals whose pressures fell immedi- the diminished blood volume so that the blood vol- ately to no lower than 45 mm Hg (groups I, II, and III) ume that is available more adequately fills the circu- all eventually recovered; the recovery occurred rapidly lation if the pressure fell only slightly (group I) but occurred 4. Increased secretion of renin by the kidneys and for- slowly if it fell almost to the 45- mm Hg level (group mation of angiotensin II, which constricts the pe- III). When the arterial pressure fell below 45 mm Hg ripheral arterioles and also causes decreased output (groups IV, V, and VI), all the animals died, although of water and salt by the kidneys, both of which help many of them hovered between life and death for hours prevent progression of shock before the circulatory system deteriorated to the stage 5. Increased secretion by the posterior pituitary gland
