Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


many of them hovered between life and death for hours prevent progression of shock before the circulatory system deteriorated to the stage 5. Increased secretion by the posterior pituitary gland of death. of vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone), which con- This experiment demonstrates that the circulatory sys- stricts the peripheral arterioles and veins and greatly tem can recover as long as the degree of hemorrhage is no increases water retention by the kidneys greater than a certain critical amount. Crossing this criti- 6. Increased secretion by the adrenal medullae of epi- cal threshold by even a few milliliters of blood loss makes nephrine and norepinephrine, which constricts the the eventual difference between life and death. Thus, peripheral arterioles and veins and increases the hemorrhage beyond a certain critical level causes shock heart rate to become progressive. That is, the shock itself causes still 7. Compensatory mechanisms that return the blood volume back toward normal, including absorp- tion of large quantities of fluid from the intesti- 100 I nal tract, absorption of fluid into the blood cap- 90 II 80 III illaries from the interstitial spaces of the body, 70 IV 60 conservation of water and salt by the kidneys, 50 V and increased thirst and increased appetite for 40 30 salt, which make the person drink water and eat 20 VI 10 salty foods if they are able to do so 0 The sympathetic reflexes and increased secretion of 0 60 120 180 240 300 360 catecholamines by the adrenal medullae provide rapid Time (minutes) help toward bringing about recovery because they Figure 24- 2 Time course of arterial pressure in dogs after different become maximally activated within 30 seconds to a few degrees of acute hemorrhage. Each curve represents average results minutes after hemorrhage. from six dogs (curves I–VI). 295 erusserp lairetrA )eulav lortnoc fo %( UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Decreased cardiac output Decreased arterial pressure Decreased systemic blood flow Decreased cardiac nutrition Decreased nutrition of tissues Intravascular clotting Decreased nutrition of brain Decreased nutrition Tissue ischemia of vascular system Decreased vasomotor activity Increased Release of capillary toxins permeability Vascular dilation Decreased Venous pooling blood volume of blood Figure 24- 3 Different types of positive feed- Cardiac depression Decreased venous return back that can lead to the progression of shock. The angiotensin and vasopressin mechanisms, as well 15 0 time as the reverse stress-r elaxation that causes contraction of
