Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


venous return back that can lead to the progression of shock. The angiotensin and vasopressin mechanisms, as well 15 0 time as the reverse stress-r elaxation that causes contraction of the blood vessels and venous reservoirs, all require 10 2 hours to 60 minutes to respond completely, but they aid greatly 10 in increasing the arterial pressure or increasing the cir- 4 hours culatory filling pressure, thereby increasing the return of 41/2 hours blood to the heart. Finally, readjustment of blood volume by absorption 5 43/4 hours of fluid from the interstitial spaces and intestinal tract, as 5 hours well as oral ingestion and absorption of additional quanti- ties of water and salt, may require from 1 to 48 hours, but 0 recovery eventually takes place, provided the shock does −4 0 4 8 12 not become severe enough to enter the progressive stage. Right atrial pressure (mm Hg) Progressive Shock—Caused by Vicious Figure 24- 4 Cardiac output curves of the heart at different times af- ter hemorrhagic shock begins. (These curves have been extrapolated Cycle of Cardiovascular Deterioration to the human heart from data obtained in dog experiments by Dr. J.W. Crowell.) Figure 24- 3 shows some of the positive feedbacks that further depress cardiac output in shock, thus causing the shock to become progressive. Some of the more impor- animals, demonstrating progressive deterioration of the tant feedbacks are described in the following sections. heart at different times after the onset of shock. An anes- thetized animal was bled until the arterial pressure fell to Cardiac Depression. When the arterial pressure falls low 30 mm Hg, and the pressure was held at this level by fur- enough, coronary blood flow decreases below that required ther bleeding or retransfusion of blood, as required. Note for adequate nutrition of the myocardium, weakening the from the second curve in the figure that there was little heart muscle and decreasing the cardiac output more. deterioration of the heart during the first 2 hours, but by Thus, a positive feedback cycle has developed, whereby 4 hours, the heart had deteriorated about 40%. Then, rap- the shock becomes more and more severe. idly, during the last hour of the experiment (after 4 hours Figure 24- 4 shows cardiac output curves extrapo- of low coronary blood pressure), the heart deteriorated lated to the human heart from studies in experimental completely. 296 )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC Chapter 24
