Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


4 shows cardiac output curves extrapo- of low coronary blood pressure), the heart deteriorated lated to the human heart from studies in experimental completely. 296 )nim/L( tuptuo caidraC Chapter 24 Circulatory Shock and Its Treatment Thus, one of the important features of progressive Release of Toxins by Ischemic Tissue. Shock has been shock, whether it is hemorrhagic in origin or has another suggested to cause tissues to release toxic substances, cause, is eventual progressive deterioration of the heart. In such as histamine, serotonin, and tissue enzymes, that the early stages of shock, this deterioration plays very little cause further deterioration of the circulatory system. Ex- role in the condition of the person, partly because deterio- perimental studies have proved the significance of at least ration of the heart is not severe during the first hour or so one toxin, endotoxin, in some types of shock. of shock, but mainly because the heart has reserve capa- bility that normally allows it to pump 300% to 400% more Cardiac Depression Caused by Endotoxin. Endotoxin blood than is required by the body for adequate tissue is released from the bodies of dead gram- negative bac- nutrition. In the latest stages of shock, however, deteriora- teria in the intestines. Diminished blood flow to the in- tion of the heart is probably the most important factor in testines often causes enhanced formation and absorption the final lethal progression of the shock. of this toxic substance. The circulating toxin then causes increased cellular metabolism, despite inadequate nutri- Vasomotor Failure. In the early stages of shock, vari- tion of the cells, which has a specific effect on the heart ous circulatory reflexes cause intense activity of the muscle, causing cardiac depression. Endotoxin can play a sympathetic nervous system. This activity helps delay major role in some types of shock, especially septic shock, depression of cardiac output and especially helps pre- discussed later in this chapter. vent decreased arterial pressure. However, there comes a point when diminished blood flow to the brain’s vaso- Generalized Cellular Deterioration. As shock becomes motor center d epresses the center so much that it, too, severe, many signs of generalized cellular deterioration becomes progressively less active and, finally, totally inac- occur throughout the body. One organ especially affected tive. For e xample, during the first 4 to 8 minutes, complete is the liver, as illustrated in Figure 24- 5. The liver is espe-
