Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


body. One organ especially affected tive. For e xample, during the first 4 to 8 minutes, complete is the liver, as illustrated in Figure 24- 5. The liver is espe- circulatory a rrest to the brain causes the most intense of cially affected mainly because of the lack of enough nutri- all sympathetic d ischarges, but by the end of 10 to 15 min- ents to support the normally high rate of metabolism in utes, the vasomotor center becomes so depressed that no liver cells, but also partly because of the exposure of the further evidence of sympathetic discharge can be dem- liver cells to any vascular toxin or other abnormal meta- onstrated. Fortunately, the vasomotor center usually does bolic factor occurring in shock. not fail in the early stages of shock if the arterial pressure Among the damaging cellular effects that are known to remains above 30 mm Hg. occur in most body tissues are the following: 1. Active transport of sodium and potassium through Blockage of Very Small Vessels by Sludged Blood. In the cell membrane is greatly diminished. As a re- time, blockage occurs in many of the very small blood sult, sodium and chloride accumulate in the cells, vessels in the circulatory system, and this blockage also and potassium is lost from the cells. In addition, the causes the shock to progress. The initiating cause of cells begin to swell. this blockage is sluggish blood flow in the microvessels. Because tissue metabolism continues despite the low flow, large amounts of acid, both carbonic acid and lac- tic acid, continue to empty into the local blood vessels and greatly increase the local acidity of the blood. This acidic effect, plus other deterioration products from the ischemic tissues, causes local blood agglutination, re- sulting in minute blood clots and leading to very small plugs in the small vessels. Even if the vessels do not be- come plugged, an increased tendency for the blood cells to stick to one another makes it more difficult for blood to flow through the microvasculature, giving rise to the term sludged blood. Increased Capillary Permeability. After many hours of capillary hypoxia and lack of other nutrients, the per- meability of the capillaries gradually increases, and large quantities of fluid begin to transude into the tissues. This phenomenon decreases the blood volume even more, with a resultant further decrease in cardiac output, mak- ing
