Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


increases, and large quantities of fluid begin to transude into the tissues. This phenomenon decreases the blood volume even more, with a resultant further decrease in cardiac output, mak- ing the shock still more severe. Capillary hypoxia does not cause increased capillary permeability until the late stages Figure 24- 5 Necrosis of the central portion of a liver lobule during of prolonged shock. severe circulatory shock. (Courtesy Dr. J.W. Crowell.) 297 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation 2. Mitochondrial activity in the liver cells, as well as Positive Feedback Deterioration of Tissues in Shock in many other tissues of the body, becomes severely and Vicious Cycle of Progressive Shock. All the fac- depressed. tors just discussed that can lead to further progression 3. Lysosomes in the cells in widespread tissue a reas of shock are types of positive feedback—that is, each in- begin to break open, with intracellular release crease in the degree of shock causes a further increase in of hydrolases, which cause further intracellular the shock. However, positive feedback does not necessar- deterioration. ily lead to a vicious cycle. Development of a vicious cycle 4. Cellular metabolism of nutrients, such as glucose, depends on the intensity of the positive feedback. In mild eventually becomes greatly depressed in the last degrees of shock, the negative feedback mechanisms of stages of shock. The actions of some hormones are the circulation, including sympathetic reflexes, reverse depressed as well, including almost 100% depres- stress- relaxation mechanism of the blood reservoirs, and sion of the actions of insulin. absorption of fluid into the blood from the interstitial All these effects contribute to further deterioration of spaces, can easily overcome the positive feedback influ- many organs of the body, including especially the follow- ences and, therefore, cause recovery. In severe shock, ing: (1) the liver, with depression of its many metabolic however, the deteriorative feedback mechanisms become and detoxification functions; (2) the lungs, with eventual more and more powerful, leading to such rapid deteriora- development of pulmonary edema and poor ability to tion of the circulation that all the normal negative feed- oxygenate the blood; and (3) the heart, thereby further back systems of circulatory control acting together can- depressing its contractility. not return the cardiac output to normal. Considering once again the principles of positive feed- Patchy Areas of Tissue Necrosis Caused by Patchy back and vicious cycles discussed in Chapter 1, one
