Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the cardiac output to normal. Considering once again the principles of positive feed- Patchy Areas of Tissue Necrosis Caused by Patchy back and vicious cycles discussed in Chapter 1, one can Blood Flows in Different Organs. Not all cells of the readily understand why there is a critical cardiac output body are equally damaged by shock because some tissues level above which a person in shock recovers and below have better blood supplies than others. For example, the which a person enters a vicious cycle of circulatory dete- cells adjacent to the arterial ends of capillaries receive bet- rioration that proceeds until death. ter nutrition than cells adjacent to the venous ends of the same capillaries. Therefore, more nutritive deficiency oc- IRREVERSIBLE SHOCK curs around the venous ends of capillaries than elsewhere. Figure 24- 5 shows necrosis in the center of a liver lobule, After shock has progressed to a certain stage, transfusion the portion of the lobule that is the last to be exposed to or any other type of therapy becomes incapable of saving the blood as it passes through the liver sinusoids. the person’s life. The person is then said to be in the irre- Similar punctate lesions occur in heart muscle, versible stage of shock. Ironically, even in this irreversible although here a definite repetitive pattern, such as occurs stage, therapy can, on rare occasions, return the arterial in the liver, cannot be demonstrated. Nevertheless, the pressure and even the cardiac output to normal or near cardiac lesions play an important role in leading to the normal for short periods, but the circulatory system nev- final irreversible stage of shock. Deteriorative lesions also ertheless continues to deteriorate, and death ensues in occur in the kidneys, especially in the epithelium of the another few minutes to few hours. kidney tubules, leading to kidney failure and occasionally Figure 24- 6 shows that transfusion during the irre- uremic death several days later. Deterioration of the lungs versible stage can sometimes cause cardiac output (as well also often leads to respiratory distress and death several as the arterial pressure) to return to nearly normal. How- days later, called the shock lung syndrome. ever, the cardiac output soon begins to fall again, and sub- sequent transfusions have less and less effect. By this time, Acidosis in Shock. Metabolic derangements that oc- multiple deteriorative changes have occurred in the heart cur in
