Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


again, and sub- sequent transfusions have less and less effect. By this time, Acidosis in Shock. Metabolic derangements that oc- multiple deteriorative changes have occurred in the heart cur in shocked tissue can lead to acidosis throughout the body. This results from poor delivery of oxygen to the tis- Hemorrhage sues, which greatly diminishes oxidative metabolism of the foodstuffs. When this occurs, the cells obtain most of 100 their energy by the anaerobic process of glycolysis, which 75 Progressive leads to excess lactic acid in the blood. In addition, poor stage blood flow through tissues prevents normal removal of 50 carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide reacts locally in the Transfusion 25 cells with water to form high concentrations of intracel- Irreversible shock lular carbonic acid, which, in turn, reacts with various 0 tissue chemicals to form additional intracellular acidic 0 30 60 90 120 150 substances. Thus, another deteriorative effect of shock is Time (minutes) generalized and local tissue acidosis, leading to further Figure 24- 6 Failure of transfusion to prevent death in irreversible progression of the shock. shock. 298 tuptuo caidraC )lamron fo %( Chapter 24 Circulatory Shock and Its Treatment muscle cells that may not necessarily affect the heart’s by hemorrhage, except for one additional complicating immediate ability to pump blood but, over a long period, factor: the blood viscosity increases greatly as a result of depress heart pumping enough to cause death. Beyond increased red blood cell concentration in the remaining a certain point, so much tissue damage has occurred, so blood, and this increase in viscosity exacerbates the slug- many destructive enzymes have been released into the gishness of blood flow. body fluids, so much acidosis has developed, and so many Loss of fluid from all fluid compartments of the body other destructive factors are now in progress that even a is called dehydration; this condition can also reduce the normal cardiac output for a few minutes cannot reverse blood volume and cause hypovolemic shock similar to the continuing deterioration. Therefore, in severe shock, that resulting from hemorrhage. Some of the causes of a stage is eventually reached at which the person will die, this type of shock are the following: (1) excessive sweat- even though vigorous therapy might still return the car- ing; (2) fluid loss in severe diarrhea or vomiting; (3) excess diac output to normal for short periods. loss of fluid by the
