Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


vigorous therapy might still return the car- ing; (2) fluid loss in severe diarrhea or vomiting; (3) excess diac output to normal for short periods. loss of fluid by the kidneys; (4) inadequate intake of fluid and electrolytes; or (5) destruction of the adrenal cortices, Depletion of Cellular High-E nergy Phosphate with loss of aldosterone secretion and consequent failure Reserves in Irreversible Shock. The high- energy phos- of the kidneys to reabsorb sodium, chloride, and water, phate reserves in the tissues of the body, especially in the which occurs in the absence of the adrenocortical hor- liver and heart, are greatly diminished in severe shock. mone aldosterone. Essentially all the creatine phosphate has been degraded, and almost all the adenosine triphosphate has downgrad- HYPOVOLEMIC SHOCK CAUSED BY ed to adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate TRAUMA and, eventually, adenosine. Much of this adenosine then diffuses out of the cells into the circulating blood and is One of the most common causes of circulatory shock is converted into uric acid, a substance that cannot re- enter trauma to the body. Often, the shock results simply from the cells to reconstitute the adenosine phosphate system. hemorrhage caused by the trauma, but it can also occur New adenosine can be synthesized at a rate of only about even without hemorrhage because extensive contusion of 2% of the normal cellular amount an hour, meaning that the body can damage the capillaries sufficiently to allow once the high-e nergy phosphate stores of the cells are de- excessive loss of plasma into the tissues. This phenome- pleted, they are difficult to replenish. non results in greatly reduced plasma volume, with resul- Thus, one of the most devastating end results in shock, tant hypovolemic shock. and the one that is perhaps most significant for develop- Various attempts have been made to implicate toxic ment of the final state of irreversibility, is cellular deple- factors released by the traumatized tissues as one of the tion of these high- energy compounds. causes of shock after trauma. However, cross- transfusion experiments with normal animals have failed to show HYPOVOLEMIC SHOCK CAUSED BY significant toxic elements. Traumatic shock, therefore, PLASMA LOSS seems to result mainly from hypovolemia, although there might also be a moderate degree of concomitant Loss of plasma from the circulatory system, even without neurogenic shock caused by loss of vasomotor tone, as loss of red blood cells, can sometimes be
