Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


moderate degree of concomitant Loss of plasma from the circulatory system, even without neurogenic shock caused by loss of vasomotor tone, as loss of red blood cells, can sometimes be severe enough discussed next. to reduce the total blood volume markedly, causing typi- cal hypovolemic shock similar in almost all details to that NEUROGENIC SHOCK—INCREASED caused by hemorrhage. Severe plasma loss occurs in the VASCULAR CAPACITY following conditions: 1. Intestinal obstruction may cause severely reduced Shock occasionally occurs without any loss of blood vol- plasma volume. Distention of the intestine in intes- ume. Instead, the vascular capacity increases so much tinal obstruction partly blocks venous blood flow in that even the normal amount of blood is incapable of fill- the intestinal walls, which increases intestinal capil- ing the circulatory system adequately. One of the major lary pressure, causing fluid to leak from the capil- causes of this condition is sudden loss of vasomotor tone laries into the intestinal walls and intestinal lumen. throughout the body, resulting especially in massive Because the lost fluid has high protein content, the dilation of the veins. The resulting condition is known as result is reduced total blood plasma protein, as well neurogenic shock. as reduced plasma volume. The role of vascular capacity in helping regulate circu- 2. Severe burns or other denuding conditions of the skin latory function was discussed in Chapter 15, where it was cause loss of plasma through the denuded skin ar- noted that an increase in vascular capacity or a decrease eas so that the plasma volume becomes markedly in blood volume reduces the mean systemic filling pres- reduced. sure, which reduces venous return to the heart. Dimin- The hypovolemic shock that results from plasma loss ished venous return caused by vascular dilation is called has almost the same characteristics as the shock caused venous pooling of blood. 299 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation Causes of Neurogenic Shock. Some neurogenic factors Septic shock is extremely important to the clinician that can cause loss of vasomotor tone include the follow- because, other than cardiogenic shock, septic shock is ing: currently the most frequent cause of shock-r elated death 1. Deep general anesthesia often depresses the vaso- in the hospital. motor center enough to cause vasomotor paralysis, Some of the typical causes of septic shock include the with resulting neurogenic shock. following: 2. Spinal anesthesia, especially when this extends all 1.
