Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


center enough to cause vasomotor paralysis, Some of the typical causes of septic shock include the with resulting neurogenic shock. following: 2. Spinal anesthesia, especially when this extends all 1. Peritonitis caused by spread of infection from the the way up the spinal cord, blocks the sympathetic uterus and fallopian tubes, sometimes resulting nervous outflow from the nervous system and can from an instrumental abortion performed under be a potent cause of neurogenic shock. unsterile conditions 3. Brain damage is often a cause of vasomotor paraly- 2. Peritonitis resulting from rupture of the gastroin- sis. Many patients who have had a brain concus- testinal system, sometimes caused by intestinal dis- sion or contusion of the basal regions of the brain ease or by wounds experience profound neurogenic shock. Also, even 3. Generalized bodily infection resulting from spread though brain ischemia for a few minutes almost al- of a skin infection such as streptococcal or staphy- ways causes extreme vasomotor stimulation and in- lococcal infection creased blood pressure, prolonged ischemia (lasting 4. Generalized gangrenous infection resulting spe- >5–10 minutes) can cause the opposite effect—total cifically from gas gangrene bacilli, spreading first inactivation of the vasomotor neurons in the brain through peripheral tissues and finally via the blood stem, with a consequent decrease in arterial pres- to the internal organs, especially the liver sure and development of severe neurogenic shock. 5. Infection spreading into the blood from the kidney or urinary tract, often caused by colon bacilli. ANAPHYLACTIC SHOCK AND HISTAMINE SHOCK Special Features of Septic Shock. Because of the mul- tiple types of septic shock, it is difficult to categorize this Anaphylaxis is an allergic condition in which cardiac out- condition. The following features are often observed: put and arterial pressure often decrease drastically. This 1. High fever condition is discussed in Chapter 35. It results primar- 2. Often marked vasodilation throughout the body, ily from an antigen-a ntibody reaction that rapidly occurs especially in the infected tissues after an antigen to which the person is sensitive enters 3. High cardiac output in perhaps half of patients, the circulation. One of the principal effects is to cause the caused by arteriolar dilation in the infected tissues basophils in the blood and mast cells in the pericapillary and by high metabolic rate and vasodilation else- tissues to release histamine or a histamine- like substance. where in the body, resulting from bacterial toxin
