Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mast cells in the pericapillary and by high metabolic rate and vasodilation else- tissues to release histamine or a histamine- like substance. where in the body, resulting from bacterial toxin The histamine causes the following: (1) an increase in stimulation of cellular metabolism and from a high vascular capacity because of venous dilation, thus caus- body temperature ing a marked decrease in venous return; (2) dilation of 4. Sludging of the blood, caused by red cell agglutina- the arterioles, resulting in greatly reduced arterial pres- tion in response to degenerating tissues sure; and (3) greatly increased capillary permeability, with 5. Development of micro–blood clots in widespread rapid loss of fluid and protein into the tissue spaces. The areas of the body, a condition called disseminated net effect is a great reduction in venous return and, some- intravascular coagulation; also, this causes the times, such serious shock that the person may die within blood clotting factors to be used up, so hemorrhag- minutes. ing occurs in many tissues, especially in the gut wall Intravenous injection of large amounts of histamine of the intestinal tract causes histamine shock, which has characteristics almost In early stages of septic shock, the patient usually does identical to those of anaphylactic shock. not have signs of circulatory collapse but only signs of the bacterial infection. As the infection becomes more SEPTIC SHOCK severe, the circulatory system usually becomes involved because of direct extension of the infection or secondarily Septic shock refers to a bacterial infection widely dissemi- as a result of toxins from the bacteria, with resultant loss nated to many areas of the body, with the infection being of plasma into the infected tissues through deteriorating carried through the blood from one tissue to another and blood capillary walls. There finally comes a point at which causing extensive damage. There are many varieties of sep- deterioration of the circulation becomes progressive in tic shock because of the many types of bacterial infections the same way that progression occurs in all other types that can cause it, and because infection in different parts of shock. The end stages of septic shock are not greatly of the body produces different effects. Most cases of sep- different from the end stages of hemorrhagic shock, even tic shock, however, are caused by Gram- positive bacteria, though the initiating factors are markedly different in the followed by endotoxin- producing Gram-n
