Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the end stages of hemorrhagic shock, even tic shock, however, are caused by Gram- positive bacteria, though the initiating factors are markedly different in the followed by endotoxin- producing Gram-n egative bacteria. two conditions. 300 Chapter 24 Circulatory Shock and Its Treatment PHYSIOLOGY OF TREATMENT IN SHOCK drug takes the place of the diminished sympathetic actions and can often restore full circulatory function. REPLACEMENT THERAPY The second type of shock in which sympathomimetic Blood and Plasma Transfusion. If a person is in shock drugs are valuable is anaphylactic shock, in which excess caused by hemorrhage, the best possible therapy is usu- histamine plays a prominent role. The sympathomimetic ally transfusion of whole blood. If the shock is caused by drugs have a vasoconstrictor effect that opposes the vaso- plasma loss, the best therapy is administration of plasma. dilating effect of histamine. Therefore, epinephrine, nor- When dehydration is the cause, administration of an ap- epinephrine, or other sympathomimetic drugs are often propriate electrolyte solution can correct the shock. lifesaving. Whole blood is not always available, such as under Sympathomimetic drugs have not proved to be very battlefield conditions. Plasma can usually substitute ade- valuable in hemorrhagic shock. The reason is that in this quately for whole blood because it increases the blood type of shock, the sympathetic nervous system is almost volume and restores normal hemodynamics. Plasma can- always maximally activated by the circulatory reflexes; so not restore a normal hematocrit, but the body can usu- much norepinephrine and epinephrine are already cir- ally stand a decrease in hematocrit to about half of normal culating in the blood that sympathomimetic drugs have before serious consequences result if cardiac output is essentially no additional beneficial effect. adequate. Therefore, in emergency conditions, it is reason- able to use plasma in place of whole blood for treatment of OTHER THERAPY hemorrhagic or most other types of hypovolemic shock. Sometimes, plasma is unavailable. In these cases, Treatment by the Head-D own Position. When the various plasma substitutes have been developed that per- pressure falls too low in most types of shock, especially form almost exactly the same hemodynamic functions as in hemorrhagic and neurogenic shock, placing the patient plasma. One of these substitutes is dextran solution. with the head at least 12 inches lower than the feet helps in promoting venous return, thereby also increasing car- Dextran Solution as a Plasma Substitute. The principal diac
