Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


solution. with the head at least 12 inches lower than the feet helps in promoting venous return, thereby also increasing car- Dextran Solution as a Plasma Substitute. The principal diac output. This head-d own position is the first essential requirement of a truly effective plasma substitute is that step in the treatment of many types of shock. it remain in the circulatory system—that is, it does not filter through the capillary pores into the tissue spaces. In Oxygen Therapy. Because a major deleterious effect of addition, the solution must be nontoxic and must contain most types of shock is too little delivery of oxygen to the appropriate electrolytes to prevent derangement of the tissues, giving the patient oxygen to breathe can be of ben- body’s extracellular fluid electrolytes on administration. efit in some cases. However, this intervention frequently To remain in the circulation, the plasma substitute must is far less beneficial than one might expect because the contain some substance that has a large enough molecu- problem in most types of shock is not inadequate oxygen- lar size to exert colloid osmotic pressure. One substance ation of the blood by the lungs but inadequate transport developed for this purpose is dextran, a large polysaccha- of the blood after it is oxygenated. ride polymer of glucose. Dextrans of appropriate molecular size do not pass through the capillary pores and, therefore, Treatment With Glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids— can replace plasma proteins as colloid osmotic agents. adrenal cortex hormones that control glucose metabo- Few toxic reactions have been observed when using lism—are frequently given to patients in severe shock for purified dextran to provide colloid osmotic pressure; several reasons: (1) experiments have shown empirically therefore, solutions containing this substance have been that glucocorticoids frequently increase the strength of used as a substitute for plasma in fluid replacement the heart in the late stages of shock; (2) glucocorticoids therapy. stabilize lysosomes in tissue cells and thereby prevent the release of lysosomal enzymes into the cytoplasm of the TREATMENT OF NEUROGENIC AND cells, thus preventing deterioration from this source; and ANAPHYLACTIC SHOCK WITH (3) glucocorticoids might aid in the metabolism of glucose SYMPATHOMIMETIC DRUGS by the severely damaged cells. A sympathomimetic drug is a drug that mimics sympa- CIRCULATORY ARREST thetic stimulation. These drugs include norepinephrine, epinephrine, and a large number of long-a cting drugs A condition closely allied to circulatory shock is circula- that have the
