Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sympa- CIRCULATORY ARREST thetic stimulation. These drugs include norepinephrine, epinephrine, and a large number of long-a cting drugs A condition closely allied to circulatory shock is circula- that have the same basic effects as epinephrine and tory arrest, in which all blood flow stops. This condition norepinephrine. can occur, for example, as a result of cardiac arrest or ven- In two types of shock, sympathomimetic drugs have tricular fibrillation. proven to be especially beneficial. The first of these is neu- Ventricular fibrillation can usually be stopped by rogenic shock, in which the sympathetic nervous system strong electroshock of the heart, the basic principles of is severely depressed. Administering a sympathomimetic which are described in Chapter 13. 301 UNIT IV UNIT IV The Circulation In the case of complete cardiac arrest, a normal cardiac Bibliography rhythm can sometimes be restored by immediately apply- Angus DC, van der Poll T: Severe sepsis and septic shock. N Engl J ing cardiopulmonary resuscitation procedures while at Med 369:840, 2013. the same time supplying the patient’s lungs with adequate Buckley MS, Barletta JF, Smithburger PL, Radosevich JJ, Kane-Gill SL: quantities of ventilatory oxygen. Catecholamine vasopressor support sparing strategies in vasodila- tory shock. Pharmacotherapy 39:382, 2019. Effect of Circulatory Arrest on the Brain Cecconi M, Evans L, Levy M, Rhodes A: Sepsis and septic shock. Lan- cet 392:75, 2018. A special challenge in circulatory arrest is to prevent Cannon JW: Hemorrhagic shock. N Engl J Med 378:370, 2018. detrimental effects of the arrest on the brain. In general, Crowell JW, Smith EE: Oxygen deficit and irreversible hemorrhagic more than 5 to 8 minutes of total circulatory arrest can shock. Am J Physiol 206:313, 1964. Galli SJ, Tsai M, Piliponsky AM: The development of allergic inflam- cause at least some degree of permanent brain damage in mation. Nature 454:445, 2008. more than half of patients. Circulatory arrest for as long Guyton AC, Jones CE, Coleman TG: Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac as 10 to 15 minutes almost always permanently destroys Output and Its Regulation. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1973. significant amounts of mental capacity. Huet O, Chin-Dusting JP: Septic shock: desperately seeking treat- For many years, it was thought that this detrimen- ment. Clin Sci (Lond) 126:31, 2014. Hunt BJ: Bleeding and coagulopathies in critical care. N Engl J Med tal effect on the brain was caused by the acute cerebral 370:847, 2014. hypoxia that occurs during circulatory arrest. However,
