Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are born without sweat glands; the average water loss by of the body fluids. In this chapter and in the following diffusion through the skin is about 300 to 400 ml/day. chapters on the kidneys, we discuss overall regulation of This loss is minimized by the cholesterol- filled, cornified body fluid volume, constituents of the extracellular fluid, layer of the skin, which provides a barrier against exces- acid–base balance, and control of fluid exchange between sive loss by diffusion. When the cornified layer becomes extracellular and intracellular compartments. denuded, as occurs with extensive burns, the rate of evaporation can increase as much as 10- fold, to 3 to 5 L/ FLUID INTAKE AND OUTPUT ARE day. For this reason, persons with burns must be given BALANCED DURING STEADY- STATE large amounts of fluid, usually intravenously, to balance CONDITIONS fluid loss. Insensible water loss through the respiratory tract The relative constancy of the body fluids is remarkable, normally averages about 300 to 400 ml/day. As air because there is continuous exchange of fluid and solutes enters the respiratory tract, it becomes saturated with with the external environment, as well as within the dif- moisture to a vapor pressure of about 47 mm Hg before ferent body compartments. For example, fluid added to it is expelled. Because the vapor pressure of the inspired the body is highly variable and must be carefully matched air is usually less than 47 mm Hg, water is continu- by an equal output of water from the body to prevent ously lost through the lungs with respiration. In cold body fluid volumes from increasing or decreasing. weather, the atmospheric vapor pressure decreases to nearly 0, causing an even greater loss of water from DAILY INTAKE OF WATER the lungs as the temperature decreases. This process explains the dry feeling in the respiratory passages in Water is added to the body by two major sources: (1) it cold weather. is ingested in the form of liquids or water in food, which together normally add about 2100 ml/day to the body flu- Fluid Loss in Sweat. The amount of water lost by sweat- ids; and (2) it is synthesized in the body by oxidation of ing is highly variable, depending on physical activity and carbohydrates, adding about 200 ml/day. These mecha- environmental temperature. The volume of sweat normal- nisms provide a total water intake of about 2300 ml/day ly
