Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


kidneys excrete these substances. For example, urine volume can Figure 25- 1. Summary of body fluid regulation, including the major be as low as 0.5 L/day in a dehydrated person or as high as body fluid compartments and the membranes that separate these 20 L/day in a person who has been drinking tremendous compartments. The values shown are for an average 70- kg man. amounts of water. This variability of intake is also true for most of the the fact that aging is usually associated with an increased electrolytes of the body, such as sodium, chloride, and percentage of the body weight being fat, which decreases potassium. In some people, sodium intake may be as low the percentage of water in the body. as 20 mEq/day, whereas in others, sodium intake may be Because women normally have a greater percentage as high as 300 to 500 mEq/day. The kidneys have the task of body fat compared with men, their total body water of adjusting the excretion rate of water and electrolytes averages about 50% of the body weight. In premature and to match the intake of these substances precisely, as well newborn babies, the total body water ranges from 70% to as compensating for excessive losses of fluids and elec- 75% of body weight. Therefore, when discussing average trolytes that occur in certain disease states. In Chapters body fluid compartments, we should realize that varia- 26 through 32, we discuss the mechanisms that allow the kidneys to perform these remarkable tasks. tions exist, depending on age, sex, and percentage of body fat. In many other countries, the average body weight (and BODY FLUID COMPARTMENTS fat mass) has increased rapidly during the past 30 years. The average body weight for adult men older than 20 years The total body fluid is distributed mainly between two in the United States is estimated to be approximately 88.8 compartments, the extracellular fluid and the intracellu- kg (∼196 pounds), and for adult women it is 77.4 kg (∼170 lar fluid (Figure 25- 1). The extracellular fluid is divided pounds). Therefore, data discussed for an average 70- kg into the interstitial fluid and the blood plasma. man in this and other chapters would need to be adjusted There is another small compartment of fluid that accordingly when considering body fluid compartments is referred to as transcellular fluid. This compartment in most people. includes fluid in the
