Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


adjusted There is another small compartment of fluid that accordingly when considering body fluid compartments is referred to as transcellular fluid. This compartment in most people. includes fluid in the synovial, peritoneal, pericardial, and intraocular spaces, as well as the cerebrospinal fluid; it is INTRACELLULAR FLUID COMPARTMENT usually considered to be a specialized type of extracellular fluid, although in some cases its composition may differ About 28 of the 42 liters of fluid in the body are inside the markedly from that of the plasma or interstitial fluid. All trillions of cells and is collectively called the intracellular the transcellular fluids together constitute about 1 to 2 fluid. Thus, the intracellular fluid constitutes about 40% of liters. the total body weight in an “average” person. In a 70- kg adult man, the total body water is about 60% The fluid of each cell contains its individual mixture of the body weight, or about 42 liters. This percentage of different constituents, but the concentrations of these depends on age, sex, and degree of obesity. As a person substances are similar from one cell to another. In fact, grows older, the percentage of total body weight that is the composition of cell fluids is remarkably similar, even fluid gradually decreases. This decrease is due in part to in different animals, ranging from the most primitive 306 ralullecartxE )L 0.41( diulf scitahpmyL Chapter 25 Regulation of Body Fluid Compartments: Extracellular and Intracellular Fluids; Edema microorganisms to humans. For this reason, the intracel- Cations Anions 150 lular fluid of all the different cells together is considered to be one large fluid compartment. 100 EXTRACELLULAR FLUID COMPARTMENT All the fluids outside the cells are collectively called the extracellular fluid. Together these fluids account for 50 about 20% of the body weight, or about 14 liters in a 70-k g man. The two largest compartments of the extracellular Na+ Ca2+ Cl− fluid are the interstitial fluid, which makes up more than 0 K+ Mg2+ three-fourths (11 liters) of the extracellular fluid, and the plasma, which makes up almost one-fourth of the extra- 50 cellular fluid, or about 3 liters. The plasma is the noncellu- lar part of the blood; it exchanges substances continuously with the interstitial fluid through the pores of the capillary 100 membranes. These pores are highly permeable to almost all solutes in the extracellular fluid, except the proteins. Therefore, the extracellular fluids are
