Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fluid through the pores of the capillary 100 membranes. These pores are highly permeable to almost all solutes in the extracellular fluid, except the proteins. Therefore, the extracellular fluids are constantly mixing, 150 so the plasma and interstitial fluids have about the same composition, except for proteins, which have a higher Figure 25- 2. Major cations and anions of the intracellular and ex- tracellular fluids. The concentrations of Ca2+ and Mg2+ represent the concentration in the plasma. sum of these two ions. The concentrations shown represent the total of free ions and complexed ions. BLOOD VOLUME Blood contains extracellular fluid (the fluid in plasma) and intracellular fluid (the fluid in the red blood cells). How- ever, blood is considered to be a separate fluid compart- ment because it is contained in a chamber of its own, the circulatory system. The blood volume is especially impor- Phospholipids: 280 mg/dl tant in the control of cardiovascular dynamics. The average blood volume of adults is about 7% of body weight, or about 5 liters. About 60% of the blood is plasma and 40% is red blood cells, but these percentages can vary considerably in different people, depending on sex, weight, and other factors. Hematocrit (Packed Red Blood Cell Volume). The he- Cholesterol: 150 mg/dl matocrit is the fraction of the blood composed of red blood cells, as determined by centrifuging blood in a hematocrit tube until the cells become tightly packed in the bottom of the tube. Because the centrifuge does not Neutral fat: 125 mg/dl completely pack the red blood cells together, about 3% to Glucose: 90 mg/dl 4% of the plasma remains entrapped among the cells, and the true hematocrit is only about 96% of the measured Urea: 14 mg/dl hematocrit. Lactic acid: 10 mg/dl In men, the measured hematocrit is normally about Uric acid: 3 mg/dl 0.40, and in women, it is about 0.36. In persons with Creatinine: 1.0 mg/dl severe anemia, the hematocrit may fall as low as 0.10, a Bilirubin: 0.5 mg/dl value that is barely sufficient to sustain life. Conversely, Bile salts: trace in persons with some conditions, excessive production of Figure 25- 3. Nonelectrolytes of the plasma. red blood cells occurs, resulting in polycythemia. In these persons, the hematocrit can rise to 0.65. intracellular fluid are shown in Figures 25- 2 and 25- 3 and in Table 25- 2. CONSTITUENTS OF EXTRACELLULAR Similar Ionic Composition of
