Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


In contrast to the extracellular fluid, the intracellular fluid contains only small quantities of sodium and chloride ionic composition is similar. The most important dif- ions and almost no calcium ions. Instead, it contains large ference between these two compartments is the higher amounts of potassium and phosphate ions plus moder- concentration of protein in the plasma; because the capil- ate quantities of magnesium and sulfate ions, all of which laries have a low permeability to the plasma proteins, only have low concentrations in the extracellular fluid. Also, small amounts of proteins are leaked into the interstitial cells contain large amounts of protein—almost four times spaces in most tissues. as much as in the plasma. Because of the Donnan effect, the concentration of positively charged ions (cations) is slightly greater (∼2%) in MEASUREMENT OF BODY FLUID plasma than in interstitial fluid. Plasma proteins have a net COMPARTMENT VOLUMES— negative charge and therefore tend to bind cations such as INDICATOR- DILUTION PRINCIPLE sodium and potassium ions, thus holding extra amounts of these cations in the plasma, along with the plasma proteins. The volume of a fluid compartment in the body can be Conversely, negatively charged ions (anions) tend to have a measured by placing an indicator substance in the com- slightly higher concentration in interstitial fluid compared partment, allowing it to disperse evenly throughout with plasma because the negative charges of the plasma the compartment’s fluid, and then analyzing the extent proteins repel the negatively charged anions. For practical to which the substance becomes diluted. Figure 25- 4 purposes, however, the concentrations of ions in intersti- shows this indicator- dilution method of measuring the tial fluid and plasma are considered to be about equal. volume of a fluid compartment. This method is based Referring again to Figure 25- 2, one can see that the on the conservation of mass principle, which means that extracellular fluid, including the plasma and interstitial the total mass of a substance after dispersion in the fluid 308 Chapter 25 Regulation of Body Fluid Compartments: Extracellular and Intracellular Fluids; Edema compartment will be the same as the total mass injected Table 25- 3 Measurement of Body Fluid Volumes into the compartment. Volume Indicators In the example shown in Figure 25-4 , a small amount Total body water 3H O, 2H O, antipyrine 2 2 of dye or other substance contained in the syringe is Extracellular fluid 22Na,
