Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in Figure 25-4 , a small amount Total body water 3H O, 2H O, antipyrine 2 2 of dye or other substance contained in the syringe is Extracellular fluid 22Na, 125I- iothalamate, thiosulfate, injected into a chamber, and the substance is allowed to inulin disperse throughout the chamber until it becomes mixed Intracellular fluid (Calculated as total body water— in equal concentrations in all areas. Then a sample of fluid extracellular fluid volume) containing the dispersed substance is removed, and the Plasma volume 125I- albumin, Evans blue dye (T- 1824) concentration is analyzed chemically, photoelectrically, or by other means. If none of the substance leaks out of Blood volume 51Cr- labeled red blood cells, or calculated as blood volume = plasma the compartment, the total mass of substance in the com- volume/(1 − hematocrit) partment (Volume B × Concentration B) will equal the Interstitial fluid Calculated as extracellular fluid total mass of the substance injected (Volume A × Con- volume − plasma volume centration A). By simple rearrangement of the equation, one can calculate the unknown volume of chamber B as follows: Measurement of Extracellular Fluid Volume. The vol- VolumeA×ConcentrationA ume of extracellular fluid can be estimated using any of VolumeB= ConcentrationB several substances that disperse in the plasma and in- terstitial fluid but do not readily permeate the cell mem- For this calculation, one needs to know the following: brane. These include radioactive sodium, radioactive (1) the total amount of substance injected into the cham- chloride, radioactive iothalamate, thiosulfate ion, and ber (the numerator of the equation); and (2) the concen- inulin. When any one of these substances is injected into tration of the fluid in the chamber after the substance has the blood, it usually disperses almost completely through- been dispersed (the denominator). out the extracellular fluid within 30 to 60 minutes. Some For example, if 1 milliliter of a solution containing 10 of these substances, however, such as radioactive sodium, mg/ml of dye is dispersed into chamber B, and the final may diffuse into the cells in small amounts. Therefore, concentration in the chamber is 0.01 mg/ml of fluid, the one frequently speaks of the sodium space or inulin space unknown volume of the chamber can be calculated as instead of calling the measurement the true extracellular follows: fluid volume. 1ml×10mg/ml VolumeB= 0.01mg/ml =1000ml Calculation of Intracellular Volume. The intracellular volume cannot be measured directly. However, it
