Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


calculated as instead of calling the measurement the true extracellular follows: fluid volume. 1ml×10mg/ml VolumeB= 0.01mg/ml =1000ml Calculation of Intracellular Volume. The intracellular volume cannot be measured directly. However, it can be This method can be used to measure the volume of calculated as follows: virtually any compartment in the body as long as the fol- Intracellularvolume lowing occur: (1) the indicator disperses evenly through- =Todaybodywater −Extracellularvolume out the compartment; (2) the indicator disperses only Measurement of Plasma Volume. Plasma volume can in the compartment that is being measured; and (3) the be measured using a substance that does not readily pen- indicator is not metabolized or excreted. If the indicator etrate capillary membranes but remains in the vascular is metabolized or excreted, correction must be made for system after injection. One of the most commonly used loss of the indicator from the body. Several substances substances for measuring plasma volume is serum albu- can be used to measure the volume of each of the differ- min labeled with radioactive iodine (125I- albumin) or with ent body fluids. a dye that avidly binds to the plasma proteins, such as Ev- ans blue dye (also called T- 1824). DETERMINATION OF VOLUMES OF SPECIFIC BODY FLUID COMPARTMENTS Calculation of Interstitial Fluid Volume. Interstitial fluid volume cannot be measured directly, but it can be calcu- Measurement of Total Body Water. Radioactive water lated as follows: (tritium, 3H O) or heavy water (deuterium, 2H O) can be e 2 2 used to measure total body water. These forms of water − Plasma volume mix with the total body water within a few hours after Measurement of Blood Volume. If one measures the being injected into the blood, and the dilution principle hematocrit (the fraction of the total blood volume com- can be used to calculate total body water (Table 25- 3). posed of cells) and plasma volume using the methods de- Another substance that has been used to measure total scribed earlier, blood volume can also be calculated using body water is antipyrine, which is very lipid- soluble, rap- the following equation: idly penetrates cell membranes, and distributes uniformly Plasmavolume throughout the intracellular and extracellular compart- Totalbloodvolume= ments. 1–Hematocrit 309 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys For example, if the plasma volume is 3 liters and hema- into the extracellular fluid until the water concentration on tocrit is 0.40, the total
