Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The Body Fluids and Kidneys For example, if the plasma volume is 3 liters and hema- into the extracellular fluid until the water concentration on tocrit is 0.40, the total blood volume would be calculated both sides of the membrane becomes equal. Conversely, as follows: if a solute such as sodium chloride is removed from the 3liters =5liters extracellular fluid, water diffuses from the extracellular 1–0.4 fluid through the cell membranes and into the cells. Another way to measure blood volume is to inject red Osmolality and Osmolarity. The osmolal concentration blood cells that have been labeled with radioactive mate- of a solution is called osmolality when the concentration rial into the circulation. After these mix in the circulation, is expressed as osmoles per kilogram of water; it is called the radioactivity of a mixed blood sample can be mea- osmolarity when it is expressed as osmoles per liter of solu- sured, and the total blood volume can be calculated using tion. In dilute solutions such as the body fluids, these two the indicator- dilution principle. One substance that can terms can be used almost synonymously because the dif- used to label the red blood cells is radioactive chromium ferences are small. Most of the calculations used clinically (51Cr), which binds tightly with the red blood cells. and the calculations expressed in the next several chap- ters are based on osmolarities rather than osmolalities. FLUID EXCHANGE AND OSMOTIC Calculation of the Osmolarity and Osmotic Pressure EQUILIBRIUM BETWEEN INTRACELLULAR AND EXTRACELLULAR of a Solution. Using the van’t Hoff law, one can calcu- FLUID late the potential osmotic pressure of a solution, assuming that the cell membrane is impermeable to the solute. For A frequent problem in treating seriously ill patients is example, the osmotic pressure of a 0.9% sodium chloride maintaining adequate fluids in one or both of the intra- solution is calculated as follows. A 0.9% solution means cellular and extracellular compartments. As discussed in that there is 0.9 gram of sodium chloride per 100 millilit- Chapter 16 and later in this chapter, the relative amounts ers of solution, or 9 g/L. Because the molecular weight of of extracellular fluid distributed between the plasma and sodium chloride is 58.5 g/mol, the molarity of the solu- interstitial spaces are determined mainly by the balance of tion is 9 g/L divided by 58.5 g/mol, or about 0.154 mol/L. hydrostatic and colloid osmotic
