Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the molarity of the solu- interstitial spaces are determined mainly by the balance of tion is 9 g/L divided by 58.5 g/mol, or about 0.154 mol/L. hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces across the capillary Because each molecule of sodium chloride is equal to 2 membranes. osmoles, the osmolarity of the solution is 0.154 × 2, or The distribution of fluid between intracellular and 0.308 Osm/L. Therefore, the osmolarity of this solution is extracellular compartments, in contrast, is determined 308 mOsm/L. The potential osmotic pressure of this so- mainly by the osmotic effect of smaller solutes—espe- lution would therefore be 308 mOsm/L × 19.3 mm Hg/ cially sodium, chloride, and other electrolytes—acting mOsm/L, or 5944 mm Hg. across the cell membrane. The reason for this is that the This calculation is an approximation, because sodium cell membranes are highly permeable to water but rela- and chloride ions do not behave entirely independently in tively impermeable to even small ions such as sodium and solution as a result of interionic attraction between them. chloride. Therefore, water moves across the cell mem- One can correct for these deviations from the predictions brane rapidly, and the intracellular fluid remains isotonic of van’t Hoff’s law by using a correction factor called the with the extracellular fluid. osmotic coefficient. For sodium chloride, the osmotic coef- In the next section, we discuss the interrelations ficient is about 0.93. Therefore, the actual osmolarity of a between intracellular and extracellular fluid volumes and 0.9% sodium chloride solution is 308 × 0.93, or about 286 the osmotic factors that can cause shifts of fluid between mOsm/L. For practical reasons, the osmotic coefficients of these two compartments. different solutes are sometimes neglected in determining the osmolarity and osmotic pressures of physiologic solutions. BASIC PRINCIPLES OF OSMOSIS AND OSMOTIC PRESSURE Osmolarity of Body Fluids. Referring back to Table 25- 2, note the approximate osmolarity of the various osmoti- The basic principles of osmosis and osmotic pressure cally active substances in plasma, interstitial fluid, and were presented in Chapter 4. Therefore, we review here intracellular fluid. About 80% of the total osmolarity of only the most important aspects of these principles as the interstitial fluid and plasma is due to sodium and chlo- they apply to volume regulation. ride ions, whereas for intracellular fluid, almost half the Because cell membranes are relatively impermeable to osmolarity is due to potassium ions, and the remainder
