Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


they apply to volume regulation. ride ions, whereas for intracellular fluid, almost half the Because cell membranes are relatively impermeable to osmolarity is due to potassium ions, and the remainder is most solutes but are highly permeable to water (i.e., they divided among many other intracellular substances. are selectively permeable), whenever there is a higher As shown in Table 25- 2, the total osmolarity of each concentration of solute on one side of the cell membrane, of the three compartments is about 300 mOsm/L, with water diffuses across the membrane toward the region the plasma being about 1 mOsm/L greater than that of of higher solute concentration. Thus, if a solute such as the interstitial and intracellular fluids. The slight differ- sodium chloride is added to the extracellular fluid, water ence between plasma and interstitial fluid is caused by the rapidly diffuses from the cells through the cell membranes osmotic effects of the plasma proteins, which maintain 310 Chapter 25 Regulation of Body Fluid Compartments: Extracellular and Intracellular Fluids; Edema about 20 mm Hg greater pressure in the capillaries than shrink or swell because the water concentration in the in- in the surrounding interstitial spaces, as discussed in tracellular and extracellular fluids is equal, and the solutes Chapter 16. cannot enter or leave the cell. Such a solution is said to be isotonic because it neither shrinks nor swells the cells. Corrected Osmolar Activity of Body Fluids. At the bot- Examples of isotonic solutions include a 0.9% solution of tom of Table 25- 2 are shown corrected osmolar activi- sodium chloride or a 5% glucose solution. These solutions ties of plasma, interstitial fluid, and intracellular fluid. The are important in clinical medicine because they can be reason for these corrections is that cations and anions ex- infused into the blood without the danger of upsetting the ert interionic attraction, which can cause a slight decrease osmotic equilibrium between the intracellular and extra- in the osmotic activity of the dissolved substances. cellular fluids. Osmotic Equilibrium Between If a cell is placed into a hypotonic solution that has Intracellular and Extracellular Fluids a lower concentration of impermeant solutes (<282 mOsm/L), water will diffuse into the cell, causing it to High osmotic pressures can develop across the cell mem- swell; water will continue to diffuse into the cell, diluting brane with relatively small changes in the concentrations the intracellular fluid while also concentrating
