Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


can develop across the cell mem- swell; water will continue to diffuse into the cell, diluting brane with relatively small changes in the concentrations the intracellular fluid while also concentrating the extra- of solutes in the extracellular fluid. As discussed earlier, for cellular fluid until both solutions have about the same each milliosmole concentration gradient of an imperme- osmolarity. Solutions of sodium chloride with a concen- ant solute (one that will not permeate the cell membrane), tration of less than 0.9% are hypotonic and cause cells to about 19.3 mm Hg of osmotic pressure is exerted across swell. the cell membrane. If the cell membrane is exposed to If a cell is placed in a hypertonic solution having a higher pure water, and the osmolarity of intracellular fluid is 282 concentration of impermeant solutes, water will flow out mOsm/L, the potential osmotic pressure that can develop of the cell into the extracellular fluid, concentrating the across the cell membrane is more than 5400 mm Hg. This intracellular fluid and diluting the extracellular fluid. In demonstrates the large force that can move water across this case, the cell will shrink until the two concentrations the cell membrane when the intracellular and extracellu- become equal. Sodium chloride solutions of more than lar fluids are not in osmotic equilibrium. As a result of 0.9% are hypertonic. these forces, relatively small changes in the concentration of impermeant solutes in the extracellular fluid can cause Isosmotic, Hyperosmotic, and Hypo-O smotic Fluids. large changes in cell volume. The terms isotonic, hypotonic, and hypertonic refer to whether solutions will cause a change in cell volume. The Isotonic, Hypotonic, and Hypertonic Fluids. The ef- tonicity of solutions depends on the concentration of im- fects of different concentrations of impermeant solutes in permeant solutes. Some solutes, however, can permeate the extracellular fluid on cell volume are shown in Figure the cell membrane. Solutions with an osmolarity the same 25- 5. If a cell is placed in a solution of impermeant solutes as the cell are called isosmotic, regardless of whether the having an osmolarity of 282 mOsm/L, the cells will not solute can penetrate the cell membrane. The terms hyperosmotic and hypo- osmotic refer to solu- tions that have a higher or lower osmolarity, respectively, compared with the normal extracellular fluid, without regard for whether the solute permeates the cell mem- A brane. Highly permeating substances, such as urea,
