Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a higher or lower osmolarity, respectively, compared with the normal extracellular fluid, without regard for whether the solute permeates the cell mem- A brane. Highly permeating substances, such as urea, can cause transient shifts in fluid volume between the intra- cellular and extracellular fluids but, given enough time, the concentrations of these substances eventually become 280 mOsm/L equal in the two compartments and have little effect on B ISOTONIC intracellular volume under steady- state conditions. C No change Osmotic Equilibrium Between Intracellular and Extracellular Fluids Is Rapidly Attained. Transfer of fluid across the cell membrane occurs so rapidly that any differences in osmolarities between these two compart- ments are usually corrected within seconds or, at the most, minutes. This rapid movement of water across the cell membrane does not mean that complete equilibrium 200 mOsm/L 360 mOsm/L occurs between the intracellular and extracellular com- HYPOTONIC HYPERTONIC partments throughout the whole body within the same Cell swells Cell shrinks short period. This is because fluid usually enters the body Figure 25- 5. Effects of isotonic (A), hypertonic (B), and hypotonic (C) through the gut and must be transported by the blood to solutions on cell volume. all tissues before complete osmotic equilibrium can o ccur. 311 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Intracellular fluid Extracellular fluid Normal State A. Add Isotonic NaCl 300 200 100 0 10 20 30 40 VVoolluummee ((lliitteerrss)) C. Add Hypotonic NaCl B. Add Hypertonic NaCl Figure 25- 6. Effect of adding isotonic (A), hypertonic (B), and hypotonic solutions (A) to the extracellular fluid after osmotic equilibrium. The normal state is indicated by the solid lines, and the shifts from normal are shown by the shaded areas. The volumes of intracellular and ex- tracellular fluid compartments are shown in the abscissa of each diagram, and the osmolarities of these compart- ments are shown on the ordinates. It usually takes about 30 minutes to achieve osmotic equi- Effect of Adding Saline Solution to the librium everywhere in the body after drinking water. Extracellular Fluid If isotonic saline is added to the extracellular fluid com- VOLUME AND OSMOLALITY partment, the osmolarity of the extracellular fluid does OF EXTRACELLULAR AND not change. The main effect is an increase in extracellular INTRACELLULAR FLUIDS IN ABNORMAL fluid volume (Figure 25- 6A). The sodium and chloride STATES largely remain in the extracellular fluid because the cell membrane behaves as though
