Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


increase in extracellular INTRACELLULAR FLUIDS IN ABNORMAL fluid volume (Figure 25- 6A). The sodium and chloride STATES largely remain in the extracellular fluid because the cell membrane behaves as though it were virtually imperme- Some of the different factors that can cause extracellular able to the sodium chloride. and intracellular volumes to change markedly are excess If a hypertonic solution is added to the extracellular ingestion or renal retention of water, dehydration, intra- fluid, the extracellular osmolarity increases and causes venous infusion of different types of solutions, loss of osmosis of water out of the cells and into the extracel- large amounts of fluid from the gastrointestinal tract, and lular compartment (see Figure 25- 6B). Again, almost all loss of abnormal amounts of fluid by sweating or through the added sodium chloride remains in the extracellular the kidneys. compartment, and fluid diffuses from the cells into the The changes in intracellular and extracellular fluid vol- extracellular space to achieve osmotic equilibrium. The umes and the types of therapy that should be instituted net effect is an increase in extracellular volume (greater can be calculated if the following basic principles are kept than the volume of fluid added), a decrease in intracellular in mind: volume, and a rise in osmolarity in both compartments. 1. Water moves rapidly across cell membranes; there- If a hypotonic solution is added to the extracellular fore, the osmolarities of intracellular and extracellu- fluid, the osmolarity of the extracellular fluid decreases, lar fluids remain almost exactly equal to each other, and some of the extracellular water diffuses into the cells except for a few minutes after a change in one of the until the intracellular and extracellular compartments compartments. have the same osmolarity (see Figure 25- 6C). Both the 2. Cell membranes are almost completely impermeable intracellular and extracellular volumes are increased by to many solutes, such as sodium and chloride; there- the addition of hypotonic fluid, although the intracellular fore, the number of osmoles in the extracellular or volume increases to a greater extent. intracellular fluid generally remains relatively con- Calculation of Fluid Shifts and Osmolarities After stant unless solutes are added to or lost from the extracellular compartment. Infusion of Hypertonic Saline Solution. We can cal- With these basic principles in mind, we can analyze culate the sequential effects of infusing different solutions the effects of different abnormal fluid conditions on extra- on extracellular and
