Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of 3.0% GLUCOSE AND OTHER SOLUTIONS Sodium Chloride ADMINISTERED FOR NUTRITIVE PURPOSES Volume Concentration Total (liters) (mOsm/L) (mOsm) Several types of solutions are administered intravenously Extracellular fluid 16 373 5971 to provide nutrition to people who cannot otherwise Intracellular fluid 28 280 7840 ingest adequate amounts of nutrition. Glucose solutions Total body fluid 44 No equilibrium 13,811 are widely used; amino acid and homogenized fat solu- tions are used to a lesser extent. When these solutions are In the third step, we calculate the volumes and concen- administered, their concentrations of osmotically active trations that would be found within a few minutes after substances are usually adjusted nearly to isotonicity, or 313 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys they are given slowly enough that they do not upset the fluid volume. Conditions that can cause hyponatremia as a osmotic equilibrium of the body fluids. result of the loss of sodium include diarrhea and vomiting. After the glucose or other nutrients are metabolized, Overuse of diuretics that inhibit the ability of the kidneys an excess of water often remains, especially if additional to conserve sodium and certain types of sodium- wasting fluid is ingested. Ordinarily, the kidneys excrete this fluid kidney diseases can also cause modest degrees of hypo- in the form of dilute urine. The net result, therefore, is the natremia. Addison disease, which results from decreased addition of only nutrients to the body. secretion of the hormone aldosterone, impairs the ability A 5% glucose solution, which is nearly isosmotic, is of the kidneys to reabsorb sodium and can cause a modest often used to treat dehydration. Because the solution is degree of hyponatremia. isosmotic, it can be infused intravenously without causing Hyponatremia can also be associated with excess red blood cell swelling, as would occur with an infusion of water retention, which dilutes the sodium in the extra- pure water. Glucose in the solution is rapidly transported cellular fluid, a condition referred to as hyponatremia- into the cells and metabolized. Therefore, infusion of a overhydration. For example, excessive secretion of 5% glucose solution reduces extracellular fluid osmolarity antidiuretic hormone (ADH), which increases water reab- and therefore helps correct the increase in extracellular sorption by the kidney tubules, can lead to hyponatremia fluid osmolarity associated with dehydration. and overhydration. Hyponatremia Causes Cell Edema CLINICAL ABNORMALITIES OF FLUID VOLUME REGULATION: Rapid changes in cell volume as a result
