Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tubules, can lead to hyponatremia fluid osmolarity associated with dehydration. and overhydration. Hyponatremia Causes Cell Edema CLINICAL ABNORMALITIES OF FLUID VOLUME REGULATION: Rapid changes in cell volume as a result of hypona- HYPONATREMIA AND tremia can have profound effects on tissue and organ HYPERNATREMIA function, especially the brain. A rapid reduction in plasma sodium concentration, for example, can cause A measurement that is readily available to the clini- brain cell edema and neurological symptoms, includ- cian for evaluating a patient’s fluid status is the plasma ing headache, nausea, lethargy, and disorientation. If sodium concentration. Plasma osmolarity is not rou- plasma sodium concentration rapidly falls below 115 to tinely measured but, because sodium and its associated 120 mmol/L, brain swelling may lead to seizures, coma, anions (mainly chloride) account for more than 90% permanent brain damage, and death. Because the skull of the solute in the extracellular fluid, plasma sodium is rigid, the brain cannot increase its volume by more concentration is a reasonable indicator of plasma osmo- than about 10% without it being forced down the neck larity under many conditions. When plasma sodium (herniation), which can lead to permanent brain injury concentration is reduced more than a few milliequiva- and death. lents below normal (about 142 mEq/L), a person is said When hyponatremia evolves more slowly, over several to have hyponatremia. When plasma sodium concentra- days, the brain and other tissues respond by transporting tion is elevated above normal, a person is said to have sodium, chloride, potassium, and organic solutes, such as hypernatremia. glutamate, from the cells into the extracellular compart- ment. This response attenuates osmotic flow of water into Causes of Hyponatremia: Excess Water or the cells and swelling of the tissues (Figure 25- 7). Loss of Sodium Transport of solutes from the cells during slowly Decreased plasma sodium concentration can result from developing hyponatremia, however, can make the brain loss of sodium from the extracellular fluid or addition of vulnerable to injury if the hyponatremia is corrected too excess water to the extracellular fluid (Table 25- 4). A pri- rapidly. When hypertonic solutions are added too rapidly mary loss of sodium usually results in hyponatremia and to correct hyponatremia, this intervention can outpace dehydration and is associated with decreased extracellular the brain’s ability to recapture the solutes lost from the Table 25- 4 Abnormalities of Body Fluid Volume Regulation: Hyponatremia and Hypernatremia Plasma Na+ Extracellular Intracellular
