Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


associated with decreased extracellular the brain’s ability to recapture the solutes lost from the Table 25- 4 Abnormalities of Body Fluid Volume Regulation: Hyponatremia and Hypernatremia Plasma Na+ Extracellular Intracellular Abnormality Cause Concentration Fluid Volume Fluid Volume Hyponatremia—dehydration Adrenal insufficiency; ↓ ↓ ↑ overuse of diuretics Hyponatremia—overhydration Excess ADH (SIADH); ↓ ↑ ↑ bronchogenic tumors Hypernatremia—dehydration Diabetes insipidus; excessive ↑ ↓ ↓ sweating Hypernatremia—overhydration Cushing disease; primary ↑ ↑ ↓ aldosteronism ADH, Antidiuretic hormone; SIADH, syndrome of inappropriate ADH. 314 Chapter 25 Regulation of Body Fluid Compartments: Extracellular and Intracellular Fluids; Edema Na+/H O Hyponatremia is the most common electrolyte disor- 2 der encountered in clinical practice and may occur in up to 15% to 25% of hospitalized patients. K+, Na+ Causes of Hypernatremia: Water Loss or Organic Excess Sodium solutes H O 2 An increased plasma sodium concentration, which also causes increased osmolarity, can be due to loss of water from the extracellular fluid, which concentrates the sodium ions, or excess sodium in the extracellular fluid. Primary loss of water from the extracellular fluid results Normonatremia in hypernatremia and dehydration. This condition can 2 occur from an inability to secrete ADH, which is needed 1 3 for the kidneys to conserve water. As a result of lack of Na+/ H O 2 ADH, the kidneys excrete large amounts of dilute urine (a disorder referred to as central diabetes insipidus), causing dehydration and increased concentration of sodium chlo- K+, Na+ ride in the extracellular fluid. In certain types of renal dis- Organic eases, the kidneys cannot respond to ADH, causing a type solutes H 2O of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. A more common cause of hypernatremia associated with decreased extracellular fluid volume is simple dehydration caused by water intake that is less than water loss, as can occur with sweating during prolonged heavy exercise. Hypernatremia can also occur when excessive sodium Acute hyponatremia chloride is added to the extracellular fluid. This often results in hypernatremia- overhydration because excess Na+/ H O extracellular sodium chloride is also usually associated 2 with at least some degree of water retention by the kid- neys. For example, excessive secretion of the sodium- K+, Na+ retaining hormone aldosterone can cause a mild degree Organic of hypernatremia and overhydration. The reason that solutes H O the hypernatremia is not more severe is that the sodium 2 retention also stimulates secretion of ADH and causes the kidneys to
