Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and overhydration. The reason that solutes H O the hypernatremia is not more severe is that the sodium 2 retention also stimulates secretion of ADH and causes the kidneys to reabsorb greater amounts of water. Thus, in analyzing abnormalities of plasma sodium concentration and deciding on proper therapy, one should first determine whether the abnormality is caused Chronic hyponatremia by a primary loss or gain of sodium or a primary loss or Figure 25- 7. Brain cell volume regulation during hyponatremia. Dur- gain of water. ing acute hyponatremia, caused by loss of Na+ or excess H O, there 2 is diffusion of H 2O into the cells (1) and swelling of the brain tissue Hypernatremia Causes Cell Shrinkage (indicated by the dashed lines). This process stimulates transport of Na+, K+, and organic solutes out of the cells (2), which then causes Hypernatremia is much less common than hyponatremia water diffusion out of the cells (3). With chronic hyponatremia, the and severe symptoms usually occur only with rapid and brain swelling is attenuated by transport of solutes from the cells. large increases in the plasma sodium concentration above 158 to 160 mmol/L. Hypernatremia usually promotes intense thirst and stimulates secretion of ADH, which cells and may lead to osmotic injury of the neurons that is both protect against a large increase in plasma and extra- associated with demyelination, a loss of the myelin sheath cellular fluid sodium, as discussed in Chapter 29. How- from nerves. This osmosis-m ediated demyelination of ever, severe hypernatremia can occur in patients with neurons can be avoided by limiting the correction of hypothalamic lesions that impair their sense of thirst, in chronic hyponatremia to less than 10 to 12 mmol/L in infants who may not have ready access to water, in older 24 hours and to less than 18 mmol/L in 48 hours. This patients with altered mental status, or in persons with slow rate of correction permits the brain to recover the diabetes insipidus. osmoles that were lost from the cells as a result of adapta- Correction of hypernatremia can be achieved by tion to chronic hyponatremia. administering a hypo- osmotic sodium chloride or dex- trose solution. However, it is prudent to correct the 315 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys hypernatremia slowly in patients who have had chronic where K is the capillary filtration coefficient (the product f increases in their
