Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys hypernatremia slowly in patients who have had chronic where K is the capillary filtration coefficient (the product f increases in their plasma sodium concentration because of the permeability and surface area of the capillaries), P c hypernatremia also activates defense mechanisms that is the capillary hydrostatic pressure, P is the interstitial if protect the cell from changes in volume. These defenses fluid hydrostatic pressure, π is the capillary plasma col- c are the opposite of those that occur for hyponatremia and loid osmotic pressure, and π is the interstitial fluid col- if consist of mechanisms that increase the intracellular con- loid osmotic pressure. From this equation, one can see centration of sodium and other solutes. that any one of the following changes can increase the cap- illary filtration rate: EDEMA: EXCESS FLUID IN THE TISSUES • Increased capillary filtration coefficient • Increased capillary hydrostatic pressure Edema refers to the presence of excess fluid in the body • Decreased plasma colloid osmotic pressure tissues. In many cases, edema occurs mainly in the extra- Lymphedema—Failure of Lymph Vessels cellular fluid compartment, but it can also involve intra- to Return Fluid and Protein to the Blood cellular fluid accumulation. When lymphatic function is greatly impaired as a result of INTRACELLULAR EDEMA blockage or loss of the lymph vessels, edema can become especially severe because plasma proteins that leak into Three conditions are especially prone to cause intracel- the interstitium cannot be removed in any other way. The lular swelling: (1) hyponatremia, as discussed earlier; (2) rise in protein concentration raises the colloid osmotic depression of the metabolic systems of the tissues; and pressure of interstitial fluid, which draws even more fluid (3) lack of adequate nutrition to the cells. For example, out of the capillaries. when blood flow to a tissue is decreased, the delivery of Blockage of lymph flow can be especially severe with oxygen and nutrients is reduced. If blood flow becomes infections of the lymph nodes, such as occurs with infec- too low to maintain normal tissue metabolism, the cell tion by filarial nematodes (Wuchereria bancrofti), which membrane ionic pumps become depressed, and sodium are microscopic threadlike worms. The adult worms live ions that normally leak into the interior of the cell can no in the human lymph system and are spread from person longer be pumped out of the cells.
