Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


live ions that normally leak into the interior of the cell can no in the human lymph system and are spread from person longer be pumped out of the cells. The excess intracel- to person by mosquitoes. People with filarial infections lular sodium ions then cause osmosis of water into the can have severe lymphedema and elephantiasis and men cells. Sometimes this process can increase intracellular can have swelling of the scrotum, called hydrocele. Lym- volume of a tissue area—even of an entire ischemic leg, phatic filariasis affects more than 120 million people in 80 for example—to two to three times normal. When such countries throughout the tropics and subtropics of Asia, an increase in intracellular volume occurs, it is usually a Africa, the Western Pacific, and parts of the Caribbean prelude to death of the tissue. and South America. Intracellular edema can also occur in inflamed tissues. Lymphedema can also occur in persons who have Inflammation usually increases cell membrane perme- certain types of cancer or after surgery in which lymph ability, allowing sodium and other ions to diffuse into the vessels are removed or obstructed. For example, large interior of the cell, with subsequent osmosis of water into numbers of lymph vessels are removed during a radical the cells. mastectomy, impairing the removal of protein and fluid EXTRACELLULAR EDEMA from the breast and arm areas and causing edema and swelling of the tissue spaces. A few lymph vessels eventu- Extracellular edema occurs when excess fluid accumulates ally regrow after this type of surgery; thus, the interstitial in the extracellular spaces. There are two general causes of edema is usually temporary. extracellular edema: (1) abnormal leakage of fluid from Summary of Causes of Extracellular the plasma to the interstitial spaces across the capillar- Edema ies; and (2) failure of the lymphatics to return fluid from the interstitium back into the blood, often called lymph- A large number of conditions can cause fluid accumu- edema. The most common clinical cause of interstitial lation in the interstitial spaces by abnormal leaking of fluid accumulation is excessive capillary fluid filtration. fluid from the capillaries or by preventing the lymphat- Factors That Can Increase Capillary ics from returning fluid from the interstitium back to the Filtration circulation. The following is a partial list of conditions that can cause extracellular edema by these two types of To understand the causes of excessive capillary filtration,
