Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to the Filtration circulation. The following is a partial list of conditions that can cause extracellular edema by these two types of To understand the causes of excessive capillary filtration, abnormalities: it is useful to review the determinants of capillary filtra- I. Increased capillary pressure tion discussed in Chapter 16. Mathematically, the capil- A. Excessive kidney retention of salt and water lary filtration rate can be expressed as follows: 1. Acute or chronic kidney failure Filtration=K f×(P c−P if−πc+πif) 2. Mineralocorticoid excess 316 Chapter 25 Regulation of Body Fluid Compartments: Extracellular and Intracellular Fluids; Edema B. High venous pressure and venous constriction to the left side of the heart because this part of the heart 1. Heart failure has been greatly weakened. Consequently, all the pulmo- 2. Venous obstruction nary vascular pressures, including pulmonary capillary 3. Failure of venous pumps pressure, rise far above normal, causing serious and life- a) Paralysis of muscles threatening pulmonary edema. When untreated, fluid b) Immobilization of parts of the body accumulation in the lungs can rapidly progress, causing c) Failure of venous valves death within a few hours. C. Decreased arteriolar resistance Edema Caused by Decreased Kidney Excretion of Salt 1. Excessive body heat and Water. Most sodium chloride added to the blood re- 2. Insufficiency of sympathetic nervous system mains in the extracellular compartment, and only a small 3. Vasodilator drugs amount enters the cells. Therefore, in kidney diseases that II. Decreased plasma proteins compromise urinary excretion of salt and water, large A. Loss of proteins in urine (nephrotic syndrome) amounts of sodium chloride and water are added to the B. Loss of protein from denuded skin areas extracellular fluid. Most of this salt and water leaks from 1. Burns the blood into the interstitial spaces, but some remains 2. Wounds in the blood. The main effects of this are as follows: (1) C. Failure to produce proteins widespread increases in interstitial fluid volume (extra- 1. Liver disease (e.g., cirrhosis) cellular edema); and (2) hypertension because of the in- 2. Serious protein or caloric malnutrition crease in blood volume, as explained in Chapter 19. As an III. Increased capillary permeability example, in children who have acute glomerulonephritis, A. Immune reactions that cause release of hista- in which the renal glomeruli are injured by inflammation mine and other immune products and therefore fail to filter adequate amounts of fluid, seri- B. Toxins ous extracellular
