Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of hista- in which the renal glomeruli are injured by inflammation mine and other immune products and therefore fail to filter adequate amounts of fluid, seri- B. Toxins ous extracellular fluid edema also develops; along with the C. Bacterial infections edema, severe hypertension usually develops. D. Vitamin deficiency, especially vitamin C E. Prolonged ischemia Edema Caused by Decreased Plasma Proteins. Failure F. Burns to produce normal amounts of proteins or leakage of pro- IV. Blockage of lymph return teins from the plasma causes the plasma colloid osmotic A. Cancer pressure to fall. This leads to increased capillary filtration B. Infections (e.g., filarial nematodes) throughout the body and extracellular edema. C. Surgery One of the most important causes of decreased D. Congenital absence or abnormality of lymphatic plasma protein concentration is loss of proteins in the vessels urine in certain kidney diseases, a condition referred to as nephrotic syndrome. Multiple types of renal diseases Edema Caused by Heart Failure. One of the most seri- can damage the membranes of the renal glomeruli, caus- ous and common causes of edema is heart failure, which ing the membranes to become leaky to the plasma pro- was discussed in Chapter 22. In heart failure, the heart teins and often allowing large quantities of these proteins fails to pump blood normally from the veins into the ar- to pass into the urine. When this loss exceeds the ability teries, which raises venous and capillary pressures, caus- of the body to synthesize proteins, a reduction in plasma ing increased capillary filtration. In addition, the arterial protein concentration occurs. Serious generalized edema pressure tends to fall, causing decreased excretion of salt occurs when the plasma protein concentration falls below and water by the kidneys, which causes still more edema. 2.5 g/100 ml. Also, blood flow to the kidneys is reduced in persons with Cirrhosis of the liver is another condition that reduces heart failure, and this reduced blood flow stimulates se- plasma protein concentration. Cirrhosis means the devel- cretion of renin, causing increased formation of angioten- opment of large amounts of fibrous tissue among the liver sin II and aldosterone, which both cause additional salt parenchymal cells. One result is failure of these cells to and water retention by the kidneys. In advanced heart produce sufficient plasma proteins, leading to decreased failure, increased secretion of ADH stimulates water re- plasma colloid osmotic pressure and the generalized absorption
