Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


retention by the kidneys. In advanced heart produce sufficient plasma proteins, leading to decreased failure, increased secretion of ADH stimulates water re- plasma colloid osmotic pressure and the generalized absorption by the renal tubules, leading to hyponatremia edema that accompanies this condition. as well as intracellular and extracellular edema. Thus, in Another way that cirrhosis causes edema is that the persons with untreated heart failure, all these factors act- liver fibrosis sometimes compresses the abdominal por- ing together can cause serious generalized edema. tal venous drainage vessels as they pass through the liver In patients with left- sided heart failure but without before emptying back into the general circulation. Block- significant failure of the right side of the heart, blood is age of this portal venous outflow raises capillary hydro- pumped into the lungs normally by the right side of the static pressure throughout the gastrointestinal area and heart but cannot escape easily from the pulmonary veins further increases fluid filtration out of the plasma into 317 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys the intra- abdominal areas. When this occurs, the com- relationships between different levels of interstitial fluid bined effects of decreased plasma protein concentration pressure and interstitial fluid volume, as extrapolated to and high portal capillary pressures cause transudation people from animal studies. Note in Figure 25- 8 that of large amounts of fluid and protein into the abdominal as long as the interstitial fluid pressure is in the nega- cavity, a condition referred to as ascites. tive range, small changes in interstitial fluid volume are associated with relatively large changes in interstitial fluid SAFETY FACTORS THAT NORMALLY hydrostatic pressure. Therefore, in the negative pressure PREVENT EDEMA range, the compliance of the tissues, defined as the change in volume per millimeter of Hg pressure change, is low. Even though many disturbances can cause edema, the How does the low compliance of the tissues in the neg- abnormality must usually be severe before serious edema ative pressure range act as a safety factor against edema? develops. The reason the abnormality must be severe is that To answer this question, recall the determinants of capil- three major safety factors prevent excessive fluid accumu- lary filtration discussed previously. When interstitial fluid lation in the interstitial spaces: (1) low compliance of the hydrostatic pressure increases, this increased pressure interstitium when interstitial fluid pressure is in the nega- tends to
