Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


When interstitial fluid lation in the interstitial spaces: (1) low compliance of the hydrostatic pressure increases, this increased pressure interstitium when interstitial fluid pressure is in the nega- tends to oppose further capillary filtration. Therefore, tive pressure range; (2) the ability of lymph flow to increase as long as the interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure is in 10- to 50-f old; and (3) washdown of the interstitial fluid the negative pressure range, small increases in interstitial protein concentration, which reduces interstitial fluid col- fluid volume cause relatively large increases in intersti- loid osmotic pressure as capillary filtration increases. tial fluid hydrostatic pressure, opposing further filtration Safety Factor Caused by Low Compliance of fluid into the tissues. of the Interstitium in the Negative Because the normal interstitial fluid hydrostatic Pressure Range pressure is −3 mm Hg, the interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure must increase by about 3 mm Hg before large In Chapter 16, we noted that interstitial fluid hydrostatic amounts of fluid will begin to accumulate in the tissues. pressure in loose subcutaneous tissues of the body is Therefore, the safety factor against edema is a change of slightly less than atmospheric pressure, averaging about interstitial fluid pressure of about 3 mm Hg. In the posi- −3 mm Hg. This slight suction in the tissues helps hold tive tissue pressure range, this safety factor against edema the tissues together. Figure 25- 8 shows the approximate is lost because of the large increase in compliance of the tissues. 60 56 Free fluid Gel fluid Importance of Interstitial Gel in Preventing Fluid 52 Accumulation in the Interstitium. Note in Figure 25- 8 that in normal tissues with negative interstitial fluid pres- 48 sure, virtually all the fluid in the interstitium is in gel form. 44 That is, the fluid is bound in a proteoglycan meshwork d 40 al flui s ao f eth wa t h t uh ne dr re e a dr te h sv i ort fu aa l mly in cro o mfre ee t efl ru ii nd dsp iaa mce es t ela r.r g Ther e t h iman - 3 36 2 nterstiti p eao sr it la yn tc he r oo uf gt hh e t hg ee l ti is s st uh ea st bit e p care uv se en ots f fl imui pd e dfr io mm en fl
