Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


e t hg ee l ti is s st uh ea st bit e p care uv se en ots f fl imui pd e dfr io mm en fl t o fw roin mg 28 otal i (High the brush pile of trillions of proteoglycan filaments. Also, 24 T compliance) when the interstitial fluid pressure falls to very negative values, the gel does not contract very much because the 20 Normal meshwork of proteoglycan filaments offers an elastic re- 16 sistance to compression. In the negative fluid pressure 12 range, the interstitial fluid volume does not change much, regardless of whether the degree of suction is only a few 8 (Low compliance) mm Hg negative pressure or 10 to 20 mm Hg negative 4 pressure. In other words, the compliance of the tissues is 0 very low in the negative pressure range. −10 −8 −6 −4 −2 0 2 4 6 By contrast, when interstitial fluid pressure rises to the IInntteerrssttiittiiaall ffrreeee fflluuiidd pprreessssuurree positive pressure range, there is a tremendous accumula- ((mmmm HHgg)) tion of free fluid in the tissues. In this pressure range, the Figure 25- 8. Relationship between interstitial fluid hydrostatic pres- tissues are compliant, allowing large amounts of fluid to sure and interstitial fluid volumes, including total volume, free fluid accumulate, with relatively small additional increases in volume, and gel fluid volume, for loose tissues such as skin. Note that interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure. Most of the extra significant amounts of free fluid occur only when the interstitial fluid pressure becomes positive. (Modified from Guyton AC, Granger HJ, fluid that accumulates is free fluid because it pushes the Taylor AE: Interstitial fluid pressure. Physiol Rev 51:527, 1971.) brush pile of proteoglycan filaments apart. Therefore, the 318 )sretil( emulov diulf laititsretnI Chapter 25 Regulation of Body Fluid Compartments: Extracellular and Intracellular Fluids; Edema fluid can flow freely through the tissue spaces because it Washdown of Interstitial Fluid Protein as is not in gel form. When this free flow of fluid occurs, the a Safety Factor Against Edema edema is said to be pitting edema because one can press As increased amounts of fluid are filtered into the inter- the thumb against the tissue area and push the fluid out of stitium, the interstitial fluid pressure increases, causing the area. When the thumb is removed, a pit is left in the increased lymph flow. In most tissues,
