Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the fluid out of stitium, the interstitial fluid pressure increases, causing the area. When the thumb is removed, a pit is left in the increased lymph flow. In most tissues, the protein con- skin for a few seconds until the fluid flows back from the centration of the interstitium decreases as lymph flow is surrounding tissues. This type of edema is distinguished increased because larger amounts of protein are carried from nonpitting edema, which occurs when the tissue away than can be filtered out of the capillaries. The reason cells swell instead of the interstitium or when the fluid in for this phenomenon is that the capillaries are relatively the interstitium becomes clotted with fibrinogen so that it impermeable to proteins compared with the lymph ves- cannot move freely within the tissue spaces. sels. Therefore, the proteins are washed out of the inter- stitial fluid as lymph flow increases. Importance of Proteoglycan Filaments as a Spacer for Because the interstitial fluid colloid osmotic pressure Cells and in Preventing Rapid Flow of Fluid in Tissues. caused by the proteins tends to draw fluid out of the capil- The proteoglycan filaments, along with much larger col- laries, decreasing the interstitial fluid proteins lowers the lagen fibrils in the interstitial spaces, act as a spacer be- net filtration force across the capillaries and tends to pre- tween the cells. Nutrients and ions do not diffuse read- vent further accumulation of fluid. The safety factor from ily through cell membranes; therefore, without adequate this effect has been calculated to be about 7 mm Hg. spacing between the cells, these nutrients, electrolytes, and cell waste products cannot be rapidly exchanged be- SUMMARY OF SAFETY FACTORS THAT tween the blood capillaries and cells located at a distance PREVENT EDEMA from one another. The proteoglycan filaments also prevent fluid from Putting together all the safety factors against edema, we flowing too easily through the tissue spaces. If it were not find the following: for the proteoglycan filaments, the simple act of a person 1. The safety factor caused by low tissue compliance in standing up would cause large amounts of interstitial fluid the negative pressure range is about 3 mm Hg. to flow from the upper body to the lower body. When too 2. The safety factor caused by increased lymph flow is much fluid accumulates in the interstitium, as occurs in about 7 mm Hg. edema,
