Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to the lower body. When too 2. The safety factor caused by increased lymph flow is much fluid accumulates in the interstitium, as occurs in about 7 mm Hg. edema, this extra fluid creates large channels that allow 3. The safety factor caused by washdown of proteins the fluid to flow readily through the interstitium. There- from the interstitial spaces is about 7 mm Hg. fore, when severe edema occurs in the legs, the edema Therefore, the total safety factor against edema is about fluid often can be decreased by simply elevating the legs. 17 mm Hg. This means that the capillary pressure in a Even though fluid does not flow easily through the tissues peripheral tissue could theoretically rise by 17 mm Hg, in the presence of the compacted proteoglycan filaments, or approximately double the normal value, before marked different substances within the fluid can diffuse through edema would occur. the tissues at least 95% as easily as they normally diffuse. Therefore, the usual diffusion of nutrients to the cells and FLUIDS IN POTENTIAL SPACES OF THE the removal of waste products from the cells are not com- BODY promised by the proteoglycan filaments of the interstitium. Some examples of potential spaces are the pleural, peri- Increased Lymph Flow as a Safety Factor cardial, peritoneal, and synovial cavities, including both Against Edema the joint cavities and the bursae. Virtually all these poten- A major function of the lymphatic system is to return the tial spaces have surfaces that almost touch each other, fluid and proteins filtered from the capillaries into the with only a thin layer of fluid in between, and the surfaces interstitium to the circulation. Without this continuous slide over each other. To facilitate the sliding, a viscous return of the filtered proteins and fluid to the blood, the proteinaceous fluid lubricates the surfaces. plasma volume would be rapidly depleted, and interstitial edema would occur. Fluid Is Exchanged Between Capillaries and Potential The lymphatics act as a safety factor against edema Spaces. The surface membrane of a potential space usu- because lymph flow can increase 10- to 50- fold when fluid ally does not offer significant resistance to the passage of begins to accumulate in the tissues. This increased lymph fluids, electrolytes, or even proteins, which all move back flow allows the lymphatics to carry away large amounts of and forth between the space and interstitial fluid
