Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This increased lymph fluids, electrolytes, or even proteins, which all move back flow allows the lymphatics to carry away large amounts of and forth between the space and interstitial fluid in the fluid and proteins in response to increased capillary filtra- surrounding tissue with relative ease. Therefore, each po- tion, preventing the interstitial pressure from rising into tential space is in reality a large tissue space. Consequent- the positive pressure range. The safety factor caused by ly, fluid in the capillaries adjacent to the potential space increased lymph flow has been calculated to be about 7 diffuses not only into the interstitial fluid but also into the mm Hg. potential space. 319 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Lymphatic Vessels Drain Protein From the Potential the joint spaces, and −5 to −6 mm Hg in the pericardial Spaces. Proteins collect in the potential spaces because cavity. of leakage out of the capillaries, similar to the collection of protein in the interstitial spaces throughout the body. The Bibliography protein must be removed through lymphatics or other channels and returned to the circulation. Each potential Adrogué HJ, Madias NE: The challenge of hyponatremia. J Am Soc space is directly or indirectly connected with lymph ves- Nephrol 23:1140, 2012. Aukland K: Why don’t our feet swell in the upright position? News sels. In some cases, such as the pleural cavity and peri- Physiol Sci 9:214, 1994. toneal cavity, large lymph vessels arise directly from the Berl T: Vasopressin antagonists. N Engl J Med 372:2207, 2015. cavity itself. Bhave G, Neilson EG: Body fluid dynamics: back to the future. J Am Edema Fluid in the Potential Spaces Is Called E ffusion. Soc Nephrol 22:2166, 2011. Breslin JW, Yang Y, Scallan JP, Sweat RS, Adderley SP, Murfee WL: When edema occurs in the subcutaneous tissues adja- Lymphatic vessel network structure and physiology. Compr Physiol cent to the potential space, edema fluid usually collects 9:207, 2018. in the potential space as well; this fluid is called effusion. Cifarelli V, Eichmann A: The intestinal lymphatic system: functions and metabolic implications. Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol 7:503, Thus, lymph blockage or any of the multiple abnormali- 2019. ties that can cause excessive capillary filtration can cause Damkier HH, Brown PD, Praetorius J: Cerebrospinal fluid secretion by effusion in the same way that interstitial edema is caused. the choroid plexus. Physiol Rev 93:1847, 2013. The abdominal cavity
