Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Kidneys MULTIPLE FUNCTIONS OF THE KIDNEYS creatine), uric acid (from nucleic acids), end products of Most people are familiar with one important function hemoglobin breakdown (e.g., bilirubin), and metabolites of of the kidneys—to rid the body of waste materials that various hormones. These waste products must be elimi- are ingested or produced by metabolism. A second func- nated from the body as rapidly as they are produced. The tion that is especially critical is to control the volume and kidneys also eliminate most toxins and other foreign sub- electrolyte composition of the body fluids. For water and stances that are produced by the body or ingested, such as virtually all electrolytes in the body, the balance between pesticides, drugs, and food additives. intake (due to ingestion or metabolic production) and output (due to excretion or metabolic consumption) is Regulation of Water and Electrolyte Balances. For maintained largely by the kidneys. This regulatory func- main tenance of homeostasis, excretion of water and elec- tion of the kidneys maintains the stable internal envi- trolytes must match intake precisely. If intake exceeds ronment necessary for the cells to perform their various excretion, the amount of that substance in the body will activities. increase. If intake is less than excretion, the amount of The kidneys perform their most critical functions by that substance in the body will decrease. Although tem- filtering the plasma and removing substances from the porary (or cyclic) imbalances of water and electrolytes filtrate at variable rates, depending on the needs of the may occur in various physiological and pathophysiologi- body. Ultimately, the kidneys clear unwanted substances cal conditions associated with altered intake or renal ex- from the filtrate (and therefore from the blood) by excret- cretion, the maintenance of life depends on restoration of ing them in the urine while returning substances that are water and electrolyte balance. needed back to the blood. Intake of water and many electrolytes is usually gov- Although this chapter and the next few chapters focus erned by a person’s eating and drinking habits, requir- mainly on the control of renal excretion of water, elec- ing the kidneys to adjust their excretion rates to match trolytes, and metabolic waste products, the kidneys serve the intakes of various substances. Figure 26- 1 shows the many important homeostatic functions, including the response of the kidneys to a sudden 10-f old increase in following: sodium intake from a
