Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of various substances. Figure 26- 1 shows the many important homeostatic functions, including the response of the kidneys to a sudden 10-f old increase in following: sodium intake from a low level of 30 mEq/day to a high • Excretion of metabolic waste products and foreign level of 300 mEq/day. Within 2 to 3 days after raising the chemicals sodium intake, renal excretion also increases to about 300 • Regulation of water and electrolyte balances mEq/day so that the balance between intake and output • Regulation of body fluid osmolality and electrolyte is rapidly re- established. However, during the 2 to 3 days concentrations of renal adaptation to the high sodium intake, there is a • Regulation of arterial pressure modest accumulation of sodium that raises extracellular • Regulation of acid- base balance fluid volume slightly and triggers hormonal changes and • Regulation of erythrocyte production other compensatory responses that signal the kidneys to • Secretion, metabolism, and excretion of hormones increase their sodium excretion. • Gluconeogenesis The capability of the kidneys to alter sodium excre- tion in response to changes in sodium intake is tremen- Excretion of Metabolic Waste Products, Foreign dous. Experimental studies have shown that in many Chemicals, Drugs, and Hormone Metabolites. The people, sodium intake can be increased to 1500 mEq/day kidneys are the primary means for eliminating most (more than 10 times normal) or decreased to 10 mEq/ of the waste products of metabolism that are no longer day (<0.1 of normal), with relatively small changes in needed by the body. These products include urea (from extracellular fluid volume or plasma sodium concentra- the metabolism of amino acids), creatinine (from muscle tion. This phenomenon is also true for water and for most 321 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Sodium Regulation of 1,25- Dihydroxyvitamin D Production. 3 retention The kidneys produce 1,25- dihydroxyvitamin D (calci- 300 3 Intake triol), the active form of vitamin D, by hydroxylating this vitamin at the “number 1” position. Calcitriol is essential 200 for normal calcium deposition in bone and calcium re- Excretion Sodium absorption by the gastrointestinal tract. As discussed in 100 loss Chapter 80, calcitriol plays an important role in calcium and phosphate regulation. 0 Glucose Synthesis. The kidneys synthesize glucose from 15 amino acids and other precursors during prolonged fast- ing, a process referred to as gluconeogenesis. The kidneys’ 10 capacity to add glucose
