Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Glucose Synthesis. The kidneys synthesize glucose from 15 amino acids and other precursors during prolonged fast- ing, a process referred to as gluconeogenesis. The kidneys’ 10 capacity to add glucose to the blood during prolonged pe- riods of fasting rivals that of the liver. 5 With chronic kidney disease or acute failure of the −4 −2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 kidneys, these homeostatic functions are disrupted, and TTiimmee ((ddaayyss)) severe abnormalities of body fluid volumes and composi- Figure 26- 1. Effect of increasing sodium intake 10-f old (from 30 tion rapidly occur. With complete renal failure, enough to 300 mEq/day) on urinary sodium excretion and extracellular fluid potassium, acids, fluid, and other substances accumulate volume. The shaded areas represent the net sodium retention or net sodium loss, determined by the difference between sodium intake in the body to cause death within a few days unless clinical and sodium excretion. interventions such as hemodialysis are initiated to restore, at least partially, the body fluid and electrolyte balances. other electrolytes, such as chloride, potassium, calcium, hydrogen, magnesium, and phosphate ions. In the next PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF THE few chapters, we discuss the specific mechanisms that KIDNEYS permit the kidneys to perform these amazing feats of homeostasis. GENERAL ORGANIZATION OF THE KIDNEYS AND URINARY TRACT Regulation of Arterial Pressure. As discussed in Chapter 19, the kidneys play a dominant role in long- The two kidneys lie on the posterior wall of the abdo- term regulation of arterial pressure by excreting variable men, outside the peritoneal cavity (Figure 26-2 ). Each amounts of sodium and water. The kidneys also contrib- kidney of the adult human weighs about 150 grams ute to short- term arterial pressure regulation by secret- and is about the size of a clenched fist. The medial side ing hormones and vasoactive factors or substances (e.g., of each kidney contains an indented region called the renin) that lead to the formation of vasoactive products hilum through which pass the renal artery and vein, (e.g., angiotensin II). lymphatics, nerve supply, and ureter, which carries the final urine from the kidney to the bladder, where it is Regulation of Acid–B ase Balance. The kidneys con- stored until the bladder is emptied. The kidney is sur- tribute to acid–base regulation, along with the lungs and rounded by a tough fibrous capsule that protects its deli- body fluid buffers, by excreting acids
