Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


emptied. The kidney is sur- tribute to acid–base regulation, along with the lungs and rounded by a tough fibrous capsule that protects its deli- body fluid buffers, by excreting acids and by regulating the cate inner structures. body fluid buffer stores. The kidneys are the only means of If the kidney is bisected from top to bottom, the two eliminating certain types of acids from the body, such as major regions that can be visualized are the outer cortex sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid, which are generated by and the inner medulla regions. The medulla is divided the metabolism of proteins. into 8 to 10 cone- shaped masses of tissue called renal pyramids. The base of each pyramid originates at the Regulation of Erythrocyte Production. The kidneys se- border between the cortex and medulla and terminates crete erythropoietin, which stimulates production of red in the papilla, which projects into the space of the renal blood cells by hematopoietic stem cells in the bone mar- pelvis, a funnel- shaped continuation of the upper end of row, as discussed in Chapter 33. One important stimulus the ureter. The outer border of the pelvis is divided into for erythropoietin secretion by the kidneys is hypoxia. open- ended pouches called major calyces that extend The kidneys normally account for almost all the eryth- downward and divide into minor calyces, which collect ropoietin secreted into the circulation. In people with urine from the tubules of each papilla. The walls of the severe kidney disease or who have had their kidneys calyces, pelvis, and ureter contain contractile elements removed and have been placed on hemodialysis, severe that propel the urine toward the bladder, where urine is anemia develops as a result of decreased erythropoietin stored until it is emptied by micturition, discussed later production. in this chapter. 322 dna ekatni muidoS ralullecartxE noitercxe emulov diulf )yad/qEm( )sretiL( Chapter 26 The Urinary System: Functional Anatomy and Urine Formation by the Kidneys Nephron Minor calyx (enlarged) Major calyx Papilla Renal cortex Kidney Renal pelvis Ureter Renal medulla Bladder Renal pyramid Urethra Figure 26- 2. General organization Ureter Capsule of kidney of the kidneys and the urinary sys- tem. RENAL BLOOD SUPPLY The kidney cannot regenerate new nephrons. Therefore, Blood flow to the two kidneys is normally about 22% of the with renal injury, disease, or normal aging, the number cardiac output, or 1100 ml/min. The renal artery enters
