Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Blood flow to the two kidneys is normally about 22% of the with renal injury, disease, or normal aging, the number cardiac output, or 1100 ml/min. The renal artery enters the of nephrons gradually decreases. After age 40 years, the kidney through the hilum and then branches progressively number of functioning nephrons usually decreases about to form the interlobar arteries, arcuate arteries, interlobular 10% every 10 years; thus, at age 80 years, many people arteries (also called radial arteries), and afferent arterioles, have 40% fewer functioning nephrons than they did at age which lead to the glomerular capillaries, where large amounts 40 years. This loss is not life- threatening because adaptive of fluid and solutes (except the plasma proteins) are filtered to changes in the remaining nephrons allow them to excrete begin urine formation (Figure 26- 3). The distal ends of the the proper amounts of water, electrolytes, and waste capillaries of each glomerulus coalesce to form the efferent products, as discussed in Chapter 32. arteriole, which leads to a second capillary network, the peri- Each nephron contains (1) a tuft of glomerular capil- tubular capillaries, that surrounds the renal tubules. laries called the glomerulus, through which large amounts The renal circulation is unique in having two capillary of fluid are filtered from the blood, and (2) a long tubule in beds, the glomerular and peritubular capillaries, which are which the filtered fluid is converted into urine on its way arranged in series and are separated by the efferent arterioles. to the pelvis of the kidney (see Figure 26- 3). These arterioles help regulate the hydrostatic pressure in The glomerulus contains a network of branching and both sets of capillaries. High hydrostatic pressure in the glo- anastomosing glomerular capillaries that, compared with merular capillaries (≈60 mm Hg) causes rapid fluid filtration, other capillaries, have high hydrostatic pressure (≈60 mm whereas a much lower hydrostatic pressure in the peritubular Hg). The glomerular capillaries are covered by epithelial capillaries (≈13 mm Hg) permits rapid fluid reabsorption. By cells, and the total glomerulus is encased in Bowman’s adjusting the resistance of the afferent and efferent arterioles, capsule. the kidneys can regulate the hydrostatic pressure in the glo- Fluid filtered from the glomerular capillaries flows merular and the peritubular capillaries, thereby changing the into Bowman’s capsule and then into the proximal tubule, rate of glomerular filtration, tubular reabsorption, or both in which lies in
