Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


flows merular and the peritubular capillaries, thereby changing the into Bowman’s capsule and then into the proximal tubule, rate of glomerular filtration, tubular reabsorption, or both in which lies in the cortex of the kidney (Figure 26- 4). From response to the body’s homeostatic demands. the proximal tubule, fluid flows into the loop of Henle, The peritubular capillaries empty into the vessels of the which dips into the renal medulla. Each loop consists venous system, which run parallel to the arteriolar ves- of a descending and an ascending limb. The walls of the sels. The blood vessels of the venous system progressively descending limb and lower end of the ascending limb are form the interlobular vein, arcuate vein, interlobar vein, very thin and therefore are called the thin segment of the and renal vein, which leaves the kidney beside the renal loop of Henle. After the ascending limb of the loop returns artery and ureter. partway back to the cortex, its wall becomes much thicker; this segment is referred to as the thick segment of THE NEPHRON IS THE FUNCTIONAL UNIT the ascending limb. OF THE KIDNEY At the end of the thick ascending limb is a short segment that has in its wall a plaque of specialized Each human kidney contains about 800,000 to 1,000,000 epithelial cells, known as the macula densa. As dis- nephrons, each of which is capable of forming urine. cussed later, the macula densa plays an important role 323 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Arcuate arteries Proximal tubule CORTEX and veins Connecting tubule Distal tubule Interlobar arteries and veins Bowman's capsule Macula densa Cortical Renal artery collecting tubule MEDULLA Loop of Henle: Renal vein Thick segment of ascending limb Segmental arteries Medullary Thin segment of collecting tubule ascending limb Descending limb Collecting duct Interlobular arteries and veins Figure 26- 4. Basic tubular segments of the nephron. The relative lengths of the different tubular segments are not drawn to scale. Glomerulus Bowman’s Proximal tubule Efferent arteriole capsule Regional Differences in Nephron Structure: Cortical Juxta- and Juxtamedullary Nephrons. Although each nephron glomerular has all the components described earlier, there are some apparatus differences, depending on how deep the nephron lies within the kidney mass. The nephrons that have glomeruli Afferent arteriole located in the outer cortex are called cortical nephrons; they have short loops of Henle that penetrate only a short distance into
