Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mass. The nephrons that have glomeruli Afferent arteriole located in the outer cortex are called cortical nephrons; they have short loops of Henle that penetrate only a short distance into the medulla (Figure 26- 5). Cortical About 20% to 30% of the nephrons have glomeruli that Distal tubule collecting lie deep in the renal cortex near the medulla and are called tubule juxtamedullary nephrons. These nephrons have long loops of Henle that dip deeply into the medulla, in some Arcuate Arcuate Loop of cases all the way to the tips of the renal papillae. Peritubular artery vein Henle capillaries The vascular structures supplying the juxtamedullary nephrons also differ from those supplying the cortical nephrons. For the cortical nephrons, the entire tubular Collecting duct system is surrounded by an extensive network of peritu- bular capillaries. For the juxtamedullary nephrons, long Figure 26- 3. Section of the human kidney showing the major ves- efferent arterioles extend from the glomeruli down into sels that supply the blood flow to the kidney and a schematic of the the outer medulla and then divide into specialized peri- microcirculation of each nephron. tubular capillaries called vasa recta, which extend down- ward into the medulla, lying side by side with the loops in controlling nephron function. Beyond the macula of Henle. Like the loops of Henle, the vasa recta return densa, fluid enters the distal tubule, which, like the toward the cortex and empty into the cortical veins. This proximal tubule, lies in the renal cortex. The distal specialized network of capillaries in the medulla plays an tubule is followed by the connecting tubule and corti- essential role in the formation of a concentrated urine, cal collecting tubule, which lead to the cortical collect- discussed in Chapter 29. ing duct. The initial parts of 8 to 10 cortical collecting ducts join to form a single, larger collecting duct that MICTURITION runs downward into the medulla and becomes the medullary collecting duct. The collecting ducts merge Micturition is the process whereby the urinary bladder to form progressively larger ducts that eventually empties when it becomes filled. This process involves empty into the renal pelvis through the tips of the renal two main steps. First, the bladder fills progressively until papillae. In each kidney, there are about 250 of these the tension in its walls rises above a threshold level. This very large collecting ducts, each of which collects
