Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


until papillae. In each kidney, there are about 250 of these the tension in its walls rises above a threshold level. This very large collecting ducts, each of which collects urine tension elicits the second step, which is a nervous reflex from about 4000 nephrons. called the micturition reflex that empties the bladder or, 324 Chapter 26 The Urinary System: Functional Anatomy and Urine Formation by the Kidneys Efferent Cortical arteriole nephron Afferent arteriole Juxtamedullary Interlobular nephron artery vein Arcuate artery Thick loop vein of Henle Interlobar Vasa artery recta vein Collecting duct Thin loop of Henle Duct of Bellini Figure 26- 5. Schematic of relation- ships between blood vessels and tubular structures and differences between cor- tical and juxtamedullary nephrons. if this fails, at least causes a conscious desire to urinate. On the posterior wall of the bladder, lying immedi- Although the micturition reflex is an autonomic spinal ately above the bladder neck, is a small triangular area cord reflex, it can also be inhibited or facilitated by cen- called the trigone. At the lowermost apex of the trigone, ters in the cerebral cortex or brain stem. the bladder neck opens into the posterior urethra, and the two ureters enter the bladder at the uppermost angles of PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF THE the trigone. The trigone can be identified by the fact that BLADDER its mucosa, the inner lining of the bladder, is smooth, in contrast to the remaining bladder mucosa, which is folded The urinary bladder, shown in Figure 26- 6, is a smooth to form rugae. muscle chamber composed of two main parts: (1) the Each ureter, as it enters the bladder, courses obliquely body, which is the major part of the bladder in which urine through the detrusor muscle and then passes another 1 to collects; and (2) the neck, which is a funnel- shaped exten- 2 centimeters beneath the bladder mucosa before empty- sion of the body, passing inferiorly and anteriorly into the ing into the bladder. urogenital triangle and connecting with the urethra. The The bladder neck (posterior urethra) is 2 to 3 centi- lower part of the bladder neck is also called the posterior meters long, and its wall is composed of detrusor muscle urethra because of its relationship to the urethra. interlaced with a large amount of elastic tissue. The mus- The smooth muscle of the bladder is called the detru- cle in
