Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


urethra because of its relationship to the urethra. interlaced with a large amount of elastic tissue. The mus- The smooth muscle of the bladder is called the detru- cle in this area is called the internal sphincter. Its natu- sor muscle. Its muscle fibers extend in all directions and, ral tone normally keeps the bladder neck and posterior when contracted, can increase the pressure in the blad- urethra empty of urine and, therefore, prevents emptying der to 40 to 60 mm Hg. Thus, contraction of the detrusor of the bladder until the pressure in the main part of the muscle is a major step in emptying the bladder. Smooth bladder rises above a critical threshold. muscle cells of the detrusor muscle fuse with one another Beyond the posterior urethra, the urethra passes so that low-r esistance electrical pathways exist from one through the urogenital diaphragm, which contains a layer muscle cell to the other. Therefore, an action potential can of muscle called the external sphincter of the bladder. This spread throughout the detrusor muscle, from one muscle muscle is a voluntary skeletal muscle, in contrast to the cell to the next, to cause contraction of the entire bladder muscle of the bladder body and bladder neck, which is at once. entirely smooth muscle. The external sphincter muscle is 325 XETROC ALLUDEM enoz retuO enoz rennI UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Female Male Detrusor Ureters muscle Ureteric openings Internal Trigone sphincter Prostate gland Urogenital diaphragm Bulbourethral (including external gland sphincter) Urethra Figure 26- 6. Anatomy of the uri- External urethral nary bladder and urethra in males opening and females. Ureter L1 L2 L3 Body Sympathetics L4 L5 S1 S2 Trigone Parasympathetics S3 S4 Bladder neck (posterior urethra) Pudendal External sphincter Figure 26- 7. Innervation of the urinary bladder. under voluntary control of the nervous system and can be responsible for initiating the reflexes that cause bladder used to consciously prevent urination, even when invol- emptying. untary controls are attempting to empty the bladder. The motor nerves transmitted in the pelvic nerves are parasympathetic fibers. These fibers terminate on gan- Innervation of the Bladder. The principal nerve sup- glion cells located in the wall of the bladder. Short post- ply of the bladder is via the pelvic nerves, which connect ganglionic nerves then innervate the detrusor muscle. with the spinal cord through the sacral plexus, mainly In addition
