Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


post- ply of the bladder is via the pelvic nerves, which connect ganglionic nerves then innervate the detrusor muscle. with the spinal cord through the sacral plexus, mainly In addition to the pelvic nerves, two other types connecting with cord segments S2 and S3 (Figure 26- 7). of innervation are important in bladder function. Coursing through the pelvic nerves are both sensory nerve Most important are the skeletal motor fibers transmit- fibers and motor nerve fibers. The sensory fibers detect the ted through the pudendal nerve to the external blad- degree of stretch in the bladder wall. Stretch signals from der sphincter. These fibers are somatic nerve fibers that the posterior urethra are especially strong and are mainly innervate and control the voluntary skeletal muscle of the 326 Chapter 26 The Urinary System: Functional Anatomy and Urine Formation by the Kidneys sphincter. Also, the bladder receives sympathetic innerva- tion from the sympathetic chain through the hypogastric nerves, connecting mainly with the L2 segment of the spi- 40 nal cord. These sympathetic fibers stimulate mainly the Micturition blood vessels and have little to do with bladder contrac- contractions tion. Some sensory nerve fibers also pass via the sympa- 30 thetic nerves and may be important in the sensation of fullness and, in some cases, pain. 20 URINE TRANSPORT FROM THE KIDNEYS T BH LAR DO DU EG RH THE URETERS AND INTO THE 10 Basal cystometrogram 0 Urine that is expelled from the bladder has essentially the 0 100 200 300 400 same composition as fluid flowing out of the collecting Volume (milliliters) ducts. There are no significant changes in the composi- Figure 26- 8. A normal cystometrogram, showing also acute pres- tion of urine as it flows through the renal calyces and ure- sure waves (dashed spikes) caused by micturition reflexes. ters to the bladder. Urine flowing from the collecting ducts into the renal nerve fibers. When a ureter becomes blocked (e.g., by a calyces stretches the calyces and increases their inherent ureteral stone), intense reflex constriction occurs, which pacemaker activity, which in turn initiates peristaltic con- is associated with severe pain. Also, the pain impulses tractions that spread to the renal pelvis and then down- cause a sympathetic reflex back to the kidney to constrict ward along the length of the ureter, thereby forcing urine the renal arterioles, thereby decreasing urine output from from the renal pelvis toward the
