Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


back to the kidney to constrict ward along the length of the ureter, thereby forcing urine the renal arterioles, thereby decreasing urine output from from the renal pelvis toward the bladder. In adults, the the kidney. This effect is called the ureterorenal reflex and ureters are normally 25 to 35 centimeters (10–14 inches) is important for attenuating flow of fluid into the pelvis of long. a kidney with a blocked ureter. The walls of the ureters contain smooth muscle and are innervated by sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves, as well as by an intramural plexus of neurons and nerve Filling of the Bladder and Bladder Wall Tone—the Cystometrogram fibers that extends along the entire length of the ureters. As with other visceral smooth muscle, peristaltic contrac- Figure 26-8 shows the approximate changes in intra- tions in the ureter are enhanced by parasympathetic stim- vesicular pressure as the bladder fills with urine. When ulation and inhibited by sympathetic stimulation. there is no urine in the bladder, the intravesicular pres- The ureters enter the bladder through the detrusor sure is about 0, but by the time 30 to 50 milliliters of urine have collected, the pressure rises to 5 to 10 centim- muscle in the trigone region of the bladder, as shown in eters of water. Additional urine—200 to 300 milliliters— Figure 26- 6. Normally, the ureters course obliquely for can collect with only a small additional rise in pressure; several centimeters through the bladder wall. The normal this constant level of pressure is caused by intrinsic tone tone of the detrusor muscle in the bladder wall tends to of the bladder wall. Beyond 300 to 400 milliliters, collec- compress the ureter, thereby preventing backflow (reflux) tion of more urine in the bladder causes the pressure to of urine from the bladder when pressure builds up in rise rapidly. the bladder during micturition or bladder compression. Superimposed on the tonic pressure changes during fill- Each peristaltic wave along the ureter increases the pres- ing of the bladder are periodic acute increases in pressure sure within the ureter so that the region passing through that last from a few seconds to more than 1 minute. The the bladder wall opens and allows urine to flow into the pressure peaks may rise only a few centimeters of water or bladder. may rise to more than 100 centimeters of water. These pres- sure peaks are called
