Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


flow into the pressure peaks may rise only a few centimeters of water or bladder. may rise to more than 100 centimeters of water. These pres- sure peaks are called micturition waves in the cystometro- In some people, the distance that the ureter courses gram and are caused by the micturition reflex. through the bladder wall is less than normal, and thus con- traction of the bladder during micturition does not always lead to complete occlusion of the ureter. As a result, some MICTURITION REFLEX of the urine in the bladder is propelled backward into the ureter, a condition called vesicoureteral reflux. Such reflux Referring again to Figure 26- 8, one can see that as the can lead to enlargement of the ureters and, if severe, can bladder fills, many superimposed micturition contractions increase the pressure in the renal calyces and structures of begin to appear, as shown by the dashed spikes. These are the renal medulla, causing damage to these regions. the result of a stretch reflex initiated by sensory stretch receptors in the bladder wall, especially by the receptors Pain Sensation in the Ureters and the Ureterorenal in the posterior urethra when this area begins to fill with Reflex. The ureters are extensively supplied with pain 327 erusserp lacisevartnI )O H/mc( 2 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys urine at the higher bladder pressures. Sensory signals of the external bladder sphincter until a convenient from the bladder stretch receptors are conducted to the time presents itself. sacral segments of the cord through the pelvic nerves and 3. When it is time to urinate, the cortical centers can fa- then reflexively back again to the bladder through the cilitate the sacral micturition centers to help initiate parasympathetic nerve fibers by way of these same nerves. a micturition reflex and, at the same time, inhibit the When the bladder is only partially filled, these mic- external urinary sphincter so that urination can occur. turition contractions usually relax spontaneously after a Voluntary urination is usually initiated in the follow- fraction of a minute, the detrusor muscles stop contract- ing way. First, a person voluntarily contracts the abdomi- ing, and pressure falls back to the baseline. As the bladder nal muscles, which increases pressure in the bladder and continues to fill, the micturition reflexes become more allows extra urine to enter the bladder neck and posterior frequent and cause
