Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nal muscles, which increases pressure in the bladder and continues to fill, the micturition reflexes become more allows extra urine to enter the bladder neck and posterior frequent and cause greater contractions of the detrusor urethra under pressure, thus stretching their walls. This muscle. action stimulates the stretch receptors, which excites the Once a micturition reflex begins, it is self- regenerative. micturition reflex and simultaneously inhibits the external That is, initial contraction of the bladder activates the urethral sphincter. Ordinarily, all the urine will be emptied, stretch receptors to cause a greater increase in sensory with rarely more than 5 to 10 milliliters left in the bladder. impulses from the bladder and posterior urethra, which causes a further increase in reflex contraction of the Abnormalities of Micturition bladder; thus, the cycle is repeated again and again until Atonic Bladder and Incontinence Caused by Destruc- the bladder has reached a strong degree of contraction. tion of Sensory Nerve Fibers. Micturition reflex contraction Then, after a few seconds to more than a minute, the self- cannot occur if the sensory nerve fibers from the bladder to regenerative reflex begins to fatigue, and the regenerative the spinal cord are destroyed, thereby preventing transmis- cycle of the micturition reflex ceases, permitting the blad- sion of stretch signals from the bladder. When this happens, der to relax. a person loses bladder control, despite intact efferent fibers Thus, the micturition reflex is a single complete cycle from the cord to the bladder and despite intact neurogenic of the following: (1) progressive and rapid increase of connections within the brain. Instead of emptying periodi- pressure; (2) a period of sustained pressure; and (3) return cally, the bladder fills to capacity and overflows a few drops at a time through the urethra. This occurrence is called over- of the pressure to the basal tone of the bladder. Once a flow incontinence. micturition reflex has occurred but has not succeeded in A common cause of atonic bladder is crush injury to emptying the bladder, the nervous elements of this reflex the sacral region of the spinal cord. Certain diseases can usually remain in an inhibited state for a few minutes to 1 also cause damage to the dorsal root nerve fibers that enter hour or more before another micturition reflex occurs. As the spinal cord. For example, syphilis can cause constric- the bladder becomes filled more and more, micturition
