Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nerve fibers that enter hour or more before another micturition reflex occurs. As the spinal cord. For example, syphilis can cause constric- the bladder becomes filled more and more, micturition tive fibrosis around the dorsal root nerve fibers, destroying reflexes occur more and more often and powerfully. them. This condition is called tabes dorsalis, and the result- Once the micturition reflex becomes powerful enough, ing bladder condition is called tabetic bladder. it causes another reflex, which passes through the puden- Automatic Bladder Caused by Spinal Cord Damage dal nerves to the external sphincter to inhibit it. If this Above the Sacral Region. If the spinal cord is damaged inhibition is more potent in the brain than the voluntary above the sacral region but the sacral cord segments are still constrictor signals to the external sphincter, urination will intact, typical micturition reflexes can still occur. However, they are no longer controlled by the brain. During the first occur. If not, urination will not occur until the bladder few days to several weeks after the damage to the cord has fills still further, and the micturition reflex becomes more occurred, the micturition reflexes are suppressed because of powerful. the state of spinal shock caused by the sudden loss of facilita- tive impulses from the brain stem and cerebrum. However, if Facilitation or Inhibition of Micturition by the Brain. the bladder is emptied periodically by catheterization to pre- The micturition reflex is an autonomic spinal cord re- vent bladder injury caused by overstretching of the bladder, flex, but it can be inhibited or facilitated by centers in the the excitability of the micturition reflex gradually increases brain. These centers include the following: (1) strong fa- until typical micturition reflexes return; then, periodic (but cilitative and inhibitory centers in the brain stem, located unannounced) bladder emptying occurs. Uninhibited Neurogenic Bladder Caused by Lack of mainly in the pons; and (2) several centers located in the cerebral cortex that are mainly inhibitory but can become Inhibitory Signals From the Brain. Another abnormality of excitatory. micturition is the so-c alled uninhibited neurogenic blad- der, which results in frequent and relatively uncontrolled The micturition reflex is the basic cause of micturition, micturition. This condition derives from partial damage in but the higher centers normally exert final control of mic- the spinal cord or the brain stem that interrupts most of turition, as follows: the inhibitory signals. Therefore,
