Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


damage in but the higher centers normally exert final control of mic- the spinal cord or the brain stem that interrupts most of turition, as follows: the inhibitory signals. Therefore, facilitative impulses pass- 1. The higher centers keep the micturition reflex par- ing continually down the cord keep the sacral centers so tially inhibited, except when micturition is desired. excitable that even a small quantity of urine elicits an un- 2. The higher centers can prevent micturition, even if controllable micturition reflex, thereby promoting frequent the micturition reflex occurs, by tonic contraction urination. 328 Chapter 26 The Urinary System: Functional Anatomy and Urine Formation by the Kidneys Afferent Efferent A Filtration only B Filtration, partial arteriole arteriole reabsorption 1. Filtration 2. Reabsorption Substance Substance Glomerular 3. Secretion A B capillaries 4. Excretion Bowman's capsule 1 2 Urine Urine Peritubular capillaries 3 C Filtration, complete D Filtration, secretion reabsorption 4 Renal vein Substance Substance C D Urinary excretion Excretion = Filtration – Reabsorption + Secretion Figure 26- 9. Basic kidney processes that determine the composition of the urine. The urinary excretion rate of a substance is equal to the rate at which the substance is filtered minus its reabsorption rate plus the rate at which it is secreted from the peritubular capillary blood into the tubules. Urine Urine URINE FORMATION RESULTS FROM Figure 26- 10. Renal handling of four hypothetical substances. A, The substance is freely filtered but not reabsorbed. B, The substance GLOMERULAR FILTRATION, TUBULAR is freely filtered, but part of the filtered load is reabsorbed back in REABSORPTION, AND TUBULAR the blood. C, The substance is freely filtered but is not excreted in SECRETION the urine because all the filtered substance is reabsorbed from the tubules into the blood. D, The substance is freely filtered and is not The rates at which different substances are excreted in the reabsorbed but is secreted from the peritubular capillary blood into urine represent the sum of three renal processes, shown the renal tubules. in Figure 26- 9: (1) glomerular filtration of substances in the blood; (2) reabsorption of substances from the renal equal to the rate at which it was filtered. Certain waste tubules into the blood; and (3) secretion of substances products in the body, such as creatinine, are handled by from the blood into the renal tubules as follows: the kidneys in this manner, allowing excretion of essen- tially all
