Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


products in the body, such as creatinine, are handled by from the blood into the renal tubules as follows: the kidneys in this manner, allowing excretion of essen- tially all that is filtered. Urinary excretion rate In panel B, the substance is freely filtered but is also =Filtration rate−Reabsorption rate+Seecretion rate partly reabsorbed from the tubules back into the blood. Therefore, the rate of urinary excretion is less than the Urine formation begins when a large amount of fluid rate of filtration at the glomerular capillaries. In this case, that is virtually free of protein is filtered from the glomer- the excretion rate is calculated as the filtration rate minus ular capillaries into Bowman’s capsule. Most substances the reabsorption rate. This pattern is typical for many of in the plasma, except for proteins, are freely filtered, so the electrolytes of the body, such as sodium and chloride their concentration in the glomerular filtrate in Bow- ions. man’s capsule is almost the same as in the plasma. As fil- In panel C, the substance is freely filtered at the glo- tered fluid leaves Bowman’s capsule and passes through merular capillaries but is not excreted into the urine the tubules, it is modified by reabsorption of water and because all the filtered substance is reabsorbed from the specific solutes back into the blood or by secretion of tubules back into the blood. This pattern occurs for some other substances from the peritubular capillaries into the of the nutritional substances in the blood, such as amino tubules. acids and glucose, allowing them to be conserved in the Figure 26- 10 shows the renal handling of four hypo- body fluids. thetical substances. The substance shown in panel A is The substance in panel D is freely filtered at the glomer- freely filtered by the glomerular capillaries but is neither ular capillaries and is not reabsorbed, but additional quan- reabsorbed nor secreted. Therefore, its excretion rate is tities of this substance are secreted from the peritubular 329 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys capillary blood into the renal tubules. This pattern often the filtered sodium is reabsorbed, causing increased uri- occurs for organic acids and bases, permitting them to nary excretion of sodium. be cleared from the blood rapidly and excreted in large For most substances, the rates of filtration and reab- amounts in the urine. The excretion rate in this case
