Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sodium. be cleared from the blood rapidly and excreted in large For most substances, the rates of filtration and reab- amounts in the urine. The excretion rate in this case is sorption are extremely large relative to the rates of calculated as filtration rate plus tubular secretion rate. excretion. Therefore, even slight changes of filtration or For each substance in the plasma, a particular combi- reabsorption can lead to relatively large changes in renal nation of filtration, reabsorption, and secretion occurs. excretion. For example, an increase in the glomerular fil- The rate at which the substance is excreted in the urine tration rate (GFR) of only 10% (from 180 to 198 L/day) depends on the relative rates of these three basic renal would raise the urine volume by 13- fold (from 1.5 to 19.5 processes. L/day) if tubular reabsorption remained constant. In real- ity, changes in glomerular filtration and tubular reabsorp- FILTRATION, REABSORPTION, AND tion usually act in a coordinated manner to produce the SECRETION OF DIFFERENT SUBSTANCES necessary changes in renal excretion. In general, tubular reabsorption is quantitatively more Why Are Large Amounts of Solutes Filtered and Then important than tubular secretion in the formation of Reabsorbed by the Kidneys? One might question the urine, but secretion plays an important role in determin- wisdom of filtering such large amounts of water and sol- ing the amounts of potassium and hydrogen ions and a utes and then reabsorbing most of these substances. One few other substances that are excreted in the urine. Most advantage of a high GFR is that it allows the kidneys to re- substances that must be cleared from the blood, especially move waste products rapidly from the body that depend the end products of metabolism, such as urea, creatinine, mainly on glomerular filtration for their excretion. Most uric acid, and urates, are poorly reabsorbed and are there- waste products are poorly reabsorbed by the tubules and, fore excreted in large amounts in the urine. Certain for- therefore, depend on a high GFR for effective removal eign substances and drugs are also poorly reabsorbed but, from the body. in addition, are secreted from the blood into the tubules, A second advantage of a high GFR is that it allows all so their excretion rates are high. Conversely, electrolytes, the body fluids to be filtered and processed by the kidneys such as sodium ions, chloride ions, and bicarbonate
