Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


it allows all so their excretion rates are high. Conversely, electrolytes, the body fluids to be filtered and processed by the kidneys such as sodium ions, chloride ions, and bicarbonate ions, many times each day. Because the entire plasma volume are highly reabsorbed, so only small amounts appear in is only about 3 liters, whereas the GFR is about 180 L/ the urine. Certain nutritional substances, such as amino day, the entire plasma can be filtered and processed about acids and glucose, are completely reabsorbed from the 60 times each day. This high GFR allows the kidneys to tubules and do not appear in the urine, even though large control the volume and composition of the body fluids amounts are filtered by the glomerular capillaries. precisely and rapidly. Each of the processes—glomerular filtration, tubular reabsorption, and tubular secretion—is regulated accord- ing to the needs of the body. For example, when there is Bibliography excess sodium in the body, the rate at which sodium is See the bibliography for Chapters 27 to 32. filtered usually increases slightly, and a smaller fraction of 330 CHAPTER 2 7 Glomerular Filtration, Renal Blood Flow, and Their Control GLOMERULAR FILTRATION—THE FIRST STEP IN URINE FORMATION GFR is about 125 ml/min, or 180 L/day. The fraction of the renal plasma flow that is filtered (the filtration frac- The first step in urine formation is filtration of large tion) averages about 0.2, which means that about 20% of amounts of fluid through the glomerular capillaries into the plasma flowing through the kidney is filtered through Bowman’s capsule—almost 180 L/day. Most of this fil- the glomerular capillaries (Figure 27- 1). The filtration trate is reabsorbed, leaving only about 1 liter of fluid to be fraction is calculated as follows: excreted each day, although the renal fluid excretion rate Filtration fr action = GFR /Renal plasma flow is highly variable, depending on fluid intake. The high rate of glomerular filtration depends on a high rate of kidney GLOMERULAR CAPILLARY MEMBRANE blood flow, as well as the special properties of the glo- merular capillary membranes. In this chapter, we discuss The glomerular capillary membrane is similar to that of the physical forces that determine the glomerular filtra- other capillaries, except that it has three (instead of the tion rate (GFR), as well as the physiological mechanisms usual two) major layers: (1) the endothelium of the capil- that regulate GFR and
