Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that it has three (instead of the tion rate (GFR), as well as the physiological mechanisms usual two) major layers: (1) the endothelium of the capil- that regulate GFR and renal blood flow. lary; (2) a basement membrane; and (3) a layer of epithe- COMPOSITION OF THE GLOMERULAR lial cells (podocytes) surrounding the outer surface of the FILTRATE capillary basement membrane (Figure 27- 2). Together, these layers make up the filtration barrier, which, despite Like most capillaries, the glomerular capillaries are rela- the three layers, filters several hundred times as much tively impermeable to proteins, so the filtered fluid (called water and solutes as the usual capillary membrane. Even the glomerular filtrate) is essentially protein- free and with this high rate of filtration, the glomerular capillary devoid of cellular elements, including red blood cells. The membrane normally filters only a small amount of plasma concentrations of other constituents of the glomerular fil- proteins. trate, including most salts and organic molecules, are sim- The high filtration rate across the glomerular capillary ilar to the concentrations in the plasma. Exceptions to this membrane is due partly to its special characteristics. The generalization include a few low-m olecular- weight sub- capillary endothelium is perforated by thousands of small stances such as calcium and fatty acids that are not freely holes called fenestrae, similar to the fenestrated capillar- filtered because they are partially bound to the plasma ies found in the liver, although smaller than the fenes- proteins. For example, almost half of the plasma calcium trae of the liver. Although the fenestrations are relatively and most of the plasma fatty acids are bound to proteins, large, endothelial cell proteins are richly endowed with and these bound portions are not filtered through the glo- fixed negative charges that hinder the passage of plasma merular capillaries. proteins. GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE IS ABOUT Surrounding the endothelium is the basement mem- 20% OF RENAL PLASMA FLOW brane, which consists of a meshwork of collagen and pro- teoglycan fibrillae that have large spaces through which Similar to other capillaries, the glomerular capillaries fil- large amounts of water and small solutes can filter. The ter fluid at a rate that is determined by the following: (1) basement membrane greatly hinders filtration of plasma the balance of hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces act- proteins, partly because of strong negative electrical ing across the capillary membrane; and (2) the capillary charges
