Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hinders filtration of plasma the balance of hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces act- proteins, partly because of strong negative electrical ing across the capillary membrane; and (2) the capillary charges associated with the proteoglycans. filtration coefficient (K), the product of the permeability The final part of the glomerular membrane is a layer of f and filtering surface area of the capillaries. The glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes) that line the outer surface of capillaries have a much higher rate of filtration than most the glomerulus. These podocytes are not continuous but other capillaries because of a high glomerular hydrostatic have long footlike processes (pedicels) that encircle the pressure and a large K f. In the average adult human, the outer surface of the capillaries (see Figure 27- 2). The foot 331 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys RPF Afferent Efferent Table 27- 1 Filterability of Substances by Glomerular (625 ml/min) arteriole arteriole Capillaries Based on Molecular Weight Substance Molecular Weight Filterability Water 18 1.0 Glomerular Sodium 23 1.0 capillaries Glucose 180 1.0 Bowman's capsule Inulin 5500 1.0 Myoglobin 17,000 0.75 GFR Albumin 69,000 0.005 (125 ml/min) processes are separated by gaps called slit pores through REAB (124 ml/min) Peritubular which the glomerular filtrate moves. The epithelial cells, capillaries which also have negative charges, provide additional restriction to filtration of plasma proteins. Thus, all layers of the glomerular capillary wall provide a barrier to the Renal filtration of plasma proteins but permit rapid filtration of vein water and most solutes in the plasma. Urinary excretion (1 ml/min) Filterability of Solutes Inversely Related to Their Figure 27- 1. Average values for total renal plasma flow (RPF), glo- Size. The glomerular capillary membrane is thicker than merular filtration rate (GFR), tubular reabsorption (REAB), and urine most other capillaries, but it is also much more porous flow rate. RPF is equal to renal blood flow × (1 − hematocrit). Note and therefore filters fluid at a high rate. Despite the high that the GFR averages about 20% of the RPF, whereas urine flow filtration rate, the glomerular filtration barrier is selective rate is less than 1% of the GFR. Therefore, more than 99% of the fluid filtered is normally reabsorbed. The filtration fraction is GFR/RPF. in determining which molecules will be filtered, based on their size and electrical charge. Table 27- 1 lists the effect of molecular size on filter- ability of
