Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fraction is GFR/RPF. in determining which molecules will be filtered, based on their size and electrical charge. Table 27- 1 lists the effect of molecular size on filter- ability of different molecules. A filterability of 1.0 means that the substance is filtered as freely as water, whereas Proximal tubule a filterability of 0.75 means that the substance is filtered only 75% as rapidly as water. Note that electrolytes such Podocytes as sodium and small organic compounds such as glucose are freely filtered. As the molecular weight of the mol- Capillary loops ecule approaches that of albumin, the filterability rapidly decreases, approaching zero. Bowman's space Afferent arteriole Negatively Charged Large Molecules Are Filtered Bowman's capsule Efferent arteriole Less Easily Than Positively Charged Molecules of A Equal Molecular Size. The molecular diameter of the Slit pores plasma protein albumin is only about 6 nanometers, whereas the pores of the glomerular membrane are thought to be about 8 nanometers (80 angstroms [Å]). Albumin is restricted from filtration, however, because Epithelium of its negative charge and the electrostatic repulsion exerted by negative charges of the glomerular capillary wall proteoglycans. Basement Figure 27-3 shows how electrical charge affects the membrane filtration of different molecular weight dextrans by the glomerulus. Dextrans are polysaccharides that can be Endothelium manufactured as neutral molecules or with negative B Fenestrations or positive charges. Note that for any given molecular radius, positively charged molecules are filtered much Figure 27- 2. A, Basic ultrastructure of the glomerular capillaries. B, Cross section of the glomerular capillary membrane and its major more readily than negatively charged molecules. Neu- components: capillary endothelium, basement membrane, and epi- tral dextrans are also filtered more readily than nega- thelium (podocytes). tively charged dextrans of equal molecular weight. The 332 Chapter 27 Glomerular Filtration, Renal Blood Flow, and Their Control 1.0 Afferent Efferent arteriole GGlloommeerruullaarr GGlloommeerruullaarr arteriole 0.8 hhyyddrroossttaattiicc ccoollllooiidd oossmmoottiicc Polycationic dextran pprreessssuurree pprreessssuurree ((6600 mmmm HHgg)) ((3322 mmmm HHgg)) 0.6 Neutral dextran 0.4 Polyanionic dextran BBoowwmmaann''ss 0.2 ccaappssuullee pprreessssuurree ((1188 mmmm HHgg)) 0 18 22 26 30 34 38 42 Effective molecular radius (Å) Glomerular Bowman's Glomerular Net filtration Figure 27- 3. Effect of molecular radius and electrical charge of dex- pressure = hydrostatic – capsule – colloid osmotic pressure pressure pressure tran on its filterability by the glomerular capillaries. A value of 1.0 (10 mm Hg) (60 mm Hg) (18 mm Hg) (32 mm Hg) indicates
