Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


colloid osmotic pressure pressure pressure tran on its filterability by the glomerular capillaries. A value of 1.0 (10 mm Hg) (60 mm Hg) (18 mm Hg) (32 mm Hg) indicates that the substance is filtered as freely as water, whereas a value of 0 indicates that it is not filtered. Dextrans are polysaccharides Figure 27- 4. Summary of forces causing filtration by the glomerular that can be manufactured as neutral molecules or with negative or capillaries. The values shown are estimates for healthy humans. positive charges and with varying molecular weights. the GFR equals the product of K and the net filtration f pressure: reason for these differences in filterability is that the GFR= K f × Net filtration pressure negative charges of the basement membrane and podo- The net filtration pressure represents the sum of cytes provide an important means for restricting large the hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces that favor or negatively charged molecules, including the plasma oppose filtration across the glomerular capillaries (Figure proteins. 27- 4). These forces include the following: (1) hydrostatic Minimal- Change Nephropathy and Increased Glo- pressure inside the glomerular capillaries (glomerular merular Permeability to Plasma Proteins. In minimal- hydrostatic pressure, P ), which promotes filtration; (2) G change nephropathy, the glomeruli become more per- the hydrostatic pressure in Bowman’s capsule (P ) out- B meable to plasma proteins, even though they may look side the capillaries, which opposes filtration; (3) the col- normal when viewed with a standard light microscope. loid osmotic pressure of the glomerular capillary plasma However, when viewed at high magnification with an proteins (π ), which opposes filtration; and (4) the col- G electron microscope, the glomeruli usually display flat- loid osmotic pressure of the proteins in Bowman’s capsule tened podocytes with foot processes that may be de- (π ), which promotes filtration. Under normal conditions, B tached from the glomerular basement membrane (po- the concentration of protein in the glomerular filtrate is docyte effacement). so low that the colloid osmotic pressure of the Bowman’s The causes of minimal change nephropathy are capsule fluid is considered to be zero. unclear but may be at least partly related to an immu- The GFR can therefore be expressed as follows: nological response and abnormal T- cell secretion of GFR=K f×(P G P B–πG+πB) cytokines that injure the podocytes and increase their permeability to some of the lower molecular weight Although the
