Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


response and abnormal T- cell secretion of GFR=K f×(P G P B–πG+πB) cytokines that injure the podocytes and increase their permeability to some of the lower molecular weight Although the normal values for the determinants of proteins, especially albumin. This increased permeabil- GFR have not been measured directly in humans, they have ity permits the proteins to be filtered by the glomeru- been estimated in animals such as dogs and rats. Based on lar capillaries and excreted in the urine, a condition the results in experimental animals, the approximate nor- known as proteinuria or albuminuria. Minimal change mal forces favoring and opposing glomerular filtration in nephropathy is most common in young children but can humans are believed to be as follows (see Figure 27- 4): also occur in adults, especially in those who have auto- Forces Favoring Filtration (mm Hg) immune disorders. Glomerular hydrostatic pressure 60 Bowman’s capsule colloid osmotic pressure 0 DETERMINANTS OF THE GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE Forces Opposing Filtration (mm Hg) Bowman’s capsule hydrostatic pressure 18 The GFR is determined by the following: (1) the sum of Glomerular capillary colloid osmotic pressure 32 the hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces across the glo- merular membrane, which gives the net filtration pres- Thus, the net filtration pressure = 60 − 18 − 32 = +10 mm Hg. sure; and (2) the glomerular K. Expressed mathematically, f 333 ytilibaretlif evitaleR UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Some of these values can change markedly under dif- 40 Filtration ferent physiological conditions, whereas others are altered 38 fraction mainly in disease states, as discussed later. Normal 36 INCREASED GLOMERULAR CAPILLARY 34 FILTRATION COEFFICIENT INCREASES 32 GLOMERULAR FILTRATE RATE 30 Filtration fraction The K f is a measure of the product of the hydraulic con- 28 ductivity and surface area of the glomerular capillaries. The K f cannot be measured directly, but can be is esti- Afferent Efferent mated experimentally by dividing the GFR by the net fil- end DDiissttaannccee aalloonngg end gglloommeerruullaarr ccaappiillllaarryy tration pressure: Figure 27- 5. Increase in colloid osmotic pressure in plasma flowing K f = GFR/Net filt ration pres sure through the glomerular capillary. Normally, about one-fifth of the fluid in the glomerular capillaries filters into Bowman’s capsule, there- Because the total GFR for both kidneys is about 125 by concentrating the plasma proteins that are not filtered. Increases ml/min, and the net filtration pressure is
