Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Bowman’s capsule, there- Because the total GFR for both kidneys is about 125 by concentrating the plasma proteins that are not filtered. Increases ml/min, and the net filtration pressure is 10 mm Hg, the in the filtration fraction (glomerular filtration rate/renal plasma flow) increase the rate at which the plasma colloid osmotic pressure rises normal K is calculated to be about 12.5 ml/min per mm f along the glomerular capillary; decreases in the filtration fraction Hg of filtration pressure. When K is expressed per 100 f have the opposite effect. grams of kidney weight, it averages about 4.2 ml/min per mm Hg, a value about 400 times as high as the K of f most other capillary systems of the body. The average to formation of stones that lodge in the urinary tract, often K of many other tissues in the body is only about 0.01 in the ureter, thereby obstructing outflow of the urinary f ml/min per mm Hg/100 g. This high K for the glomer- tract and raising Bowman’s capsule pressure. This situa- f ular capillaries contributes to their rapid rate of fluid tion reduces GFR and eventually can cause hydronephro- filtration. sis (distention and dilation of the renal pelvis and calyces) Although increased K raises the GFR and decreased and can damage or even destroy the kidney unless the f K reduces the GFR, changes in K probably do not pro- obstruction is relieved. f f vide a primary mechanism for the normal daily regu- INCREASED GLOMERULAR CAPILLARY lation of GFR. Some diseases, however, lower K f by COLLOID OSMOTIC PRESSURE DECREASES reducing the number of functional glomerular capillar- GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE ies (thereby reducing the surface area for filtration) or by increasing the thickness of the glomerular capillary As blood passes from the afferent arteriole through membrane and reducing its hydraulic conductivity. For the glomerular capillaries to the efferent arterioles, example, chronic uncontrolled hypertension may grad- the plasma protein concentration increases about 20% ually reduce K f by increasing the thickness of the glo- (Figure 27-5 ). The reason for this increase is that about merular capillary basement membrane and, eventually, one-fifth of the fluid in the capillaries filters into Bow- by damaging the capillaries so severely that there is loss man’s capsule, thereby concentrating the glomerular of capillary function. plasma proteins that are not filtered. Assuming that the normal colloid osmotic pressure of plasma entering
