Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


severely that there is loss man’s capsule, thereby concentrating the glomerular of capillary function. plasma proteins that are not filtered. Assuming that the normal colloid osmotic pressure of plasma entering the INCREASED BOWMAN’S CAPSULE glomerular capillaries is 28 mm Hg, this value usually HYDROSTATIC PRESSURE DECREASES rises to about 36 mm Hg by the time the blood reaches GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE the efferent end of the capillaries. Therefore, the aver- age colloid osmotic pressure of the glomerular capillary Direct measurements of hydrostatic pressure in Bow- plasma proteins is midway between 28 and 36 mm Hg, man’s capsule and at different points in the proximal or about 32 mm Hg. tubule in experimental animals using micropipettes have Two factors that influence the glomerular capillary suggested that a reasonable estimate for Bowman’s cap- colloid osmotic pressure are the following: (1) the arte- sule pressure in humans is about 18 mm Hg under normal rial plasma colloid osmotic pressure; and (2) the fraction conditions. Increasing the hydrostatic pressure in Bow- of plasma filtered by the glomerular capillaries (filtration man’s capsule reduces GFR, whereas decreasing this pres- fraction). Increasing the arterial plasma colloid osmotic sure raises GFR. However, changes in Bowman’s capsule pressure raises the glomerular capillary colloid osmotic pressure normally do not serve as a primary means for pressure, which in turn tends to decrease the GFR. regulating GFR. Increasing the filtration fraction also concentrates the In certain pathological states associated with obstruc- plasma proteins and raises the glomerular colloid osmotic tion of the urinary tract, Bowman’s capsule pressure can pressure (see Figure 27- 5). Because the filtration fraction increase markedly, causing serious reduction of GFR. For is defined as the GFR divided by the renal plasma flow, the example, precipitation of calcium or of uric acid may lead filtration fraction can be increased by raising the GFR or 334 diolloc raluremolG erusserp citomso )gH mm( Chapter 27 Glomerular Filtration, Renal Blood Flow, and Their Control by reducing renal plasma flow. For example, a reduction R A in renal plasma flow with no initial change in GFR would tend to increase the filtration fraction, which would raise P G the glomerular capillary colloid osmotic pressure and RReennaall tend to reduce the GFR. For this reason, changes in renal bblloooodd ffllooww blood flow can influence GFR independently of changes GFR in glomerular hydrostatic pressure. With increasing renal blood flow, a lower fraction of the
