Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


this reason, changes in renal bblloooodd ffllooww blood flow can influence GFR independently of changes GFR in glomerular hydrostatic pressure. With increasing renal blood flow, a lower fraction of the plasma is initially filtered out of the glomerular cap- illaries, causing a slower rise in the glomerular capillary colloid osmotic pressure and less inhibitory effect on R E the GFR. Consequently, even with a constant glomerular P G hydrostatic pressure, a greater rate of blood flow into the RReennaall glomerulus tends to increase the GFR and a lower rate of bblloooodd blood flow into the glomerulus tends to decrease the GFR. ffllooww GFR INCREASED GLOMERULAR CAPILLARY HYDROSTATIC PRESSURE INCREASES GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE Figure 27- 6. Effect of increases in afferent arteriolar resistance (R , A top panel) or efferent arteriolar resistance (R, bottom panel) on re- E The glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure has been nal blood flow, glomerular hydrostatic pressure (P G), and glomerular filtration rate (GFR). estimated to be about 60 mm Hg under normal condi- tions. Changes in glomerular hydrostatic pressure serve as the primary means for physiological regulation of GFR. Glomerular 150 2000 filtration Increases in glomerular hydrostatic pressure raise the rate GFR, whereas decreases in glomerular hydrostatic pres- sure reduce the GFR. 100 Normal 1400 Glomerular hydrostatic pressure is determined by three variables, each of which is under physiological con- 50 800 trol: (1) arterial pressure; (2) afferent arteriolar resistance; Renal blood and (3) efferent arteriolar resistance. flow Increased arterial pressure tends to raise glomerular 0 200 0 1 2 3 4 hydrostatic pressure and, therefore, to increase the GFR. Efferent arteriolar resistance However, as discussed later, this effect is buffered by auto- (× normal) regulatory mechanisms that maintain a relatively constant glomerular pressure as arterial pressure fluctuates. Increased resistance of afferent arterioles reduces 250 2000 glomerular hydrostatic pressure and decreases the GFR 100 (Figure 27-6 ). Conversely, dilation of the afferent arte- 1400 rioles increases glomerular hydrostatic pressure and 150 Normal GFR. 100 Constriction of the efferent arterioles increases the Renal blood 800 Glomerular flow resistance to outflow from the glomerular capillaries. 50 filtration This mechanism raises glomerular hydrostatic pressure rate 0 200 and, as long as the increase in efferent resistance does not 0 1 2 3 4 reduce renal blood flow too much, GFR increases slightly Afferent arteriolar resistance (see Figure 27- 6). However, because efferent arteriolar (× normal) constriction also reduces renal
