Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood supply and glomerular merular filtration coefficient; P , Bowman’s capsule hydrostatic B filtration during variations of blood pressure.] Pflugers Arch Physiol pressure; πG, glomerular capillary colloid osmotic pressure; P G, 271:782, 1960.) glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure; R , afferent arteriolar A resistance; R, efferent arteriolar resistance. E RENAL BLOOD FLOW AND OXYGEN protein concentration increases, there is a rapid nonlinear CONSUMPTION increase in colloid osmotic pressure caused by the Don- nan effect; the higher the protein concentration, the more On a per gram- weight basis, the kidneys normally con- rapidly the colloid osmotic pressure rises because of the sume oxygen at twice the rate of the brain but have almost interaction of ions bound to the plasma proteins, which seven times the blood flow of the brain. Thus, the oxygen also exert an osmotic effect, as discussed in Chapter 16. delivered to the kidneys far exceeds their metabolic needs, To summarize, constriction of afferent arterioles and the arterial- venous extraction of oxygen is relatively reduces GFR. However, the effect of efferent arteriolar low compared with that of most other tissues. constriction depends on the severity of the constriction; A large fraction of the oxygen consumed by the kid- modest efferent constriction raises GFR, but severe effer- neys is related to the high rate of active sodium reabsorp- ent constriction (more than a threefold increase in resis- tion by the renal tubules. If renal blood flow and GFR tance) tends to reduce GFR. are reduced, and less sodium is filtered, less sodium is Table 27- 2 summarizes the factors that can decrease reabsorbed and less oxygen is consumed. Therefore, renal the GFR. oxygen consumption varies in proportion to renal tubular sodium reabsorption, which in turn is closely related to RENAL BLOOD FLOW GFR and the rate of sodium filtered (Figure 27-8 ). If glo- merular filtration ceases completely, renal sodium reab- In a 70- kg man, the combined blood flow through both sorption also ceases and oxygen consumption decreases kidneys is about 1100 ml/min, or about 22% of the car- to about one- fourth normal. This residual oxygen con- diac output. Considering that the two kidneys constitute sumption reflects the basic metabolic needs of the renal only about 0.4% of the total body weight, one can readily cells. see that they receive extremely high blood flow compared DETERMINANTS OF RENAL BLOOD FLOW with other organs. As with other tissues, blood
