Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the resistances in the individual pathetic nervous system, hormones, autacoids (vasoac- vasculature segments, including the arteries, arterioles, tive substances that are released in the kidneys and act capillaries, and veins (Table 27- 3). locally), and other feedback controls that are intrinsic to Most of the renal vascular resistance resides in three the kidneys. major segments—interlobular arteries, afferent arteri- oles, and efferent arterioles. Resistance of these vessels STRONG SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS is controlled by the sympathetic nervous system, various SYSTEM ACTIVATION DECREASES hormones, and local internal renal control mechanisms, GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE as discussed later. An increase in the resistance of any of the vascular segments of the kidneys tends to reduce the Essentially all the blood vessels of the kidneys, including renal blood flow, whereas a decrease in vascular resis- the afferent and efferent arterioles, are richly innervated tance increases renal blood flow if renal artery and renal by sympathetic nerve fibers. Strong activation of the vein pressures remain constant. renal sympathetic nerves can constrict the renal arteri- Although changes in arterial pressure have some oles and decrease renal blood flow and GFR. Moderate influence on renal blood flow, the kidneys have effective or mild sympathetic stimulation has little influence on mechanisms for maintaining renal blood flow and GFR renal blood flow and GFR. For example, reflex activa- relatively constant over an arterial pressure range between tion of the sympathetic nervous system resulting from 80 and 170 mm Hg, a process called autoregulation. This moderate decreases in pressure at the carotid sinus capacity for autoregulation occurs through mechanisms baroreceptors or cardiopulmonary receptors has little that are intrinsic to the kidneys, as discussed later in this influence on renal blood flow or GFR. However, as dis- chapter. cussed in Chapter 28, even mild increases in renal sym- pathetic activity can stimulate renin release and increase BLOOD FLOW IN VASA RECTA OF RENAL renal tubular reabsorption, causing decreased sodium MEDULLA IS LOW COMPARED WITH and water excretion. RENAL CORTEX FLOW The renal sympathetic nerves seem to be the most important in reducing GFR during severe acute distur- The outer part of the kidney, the renal cortex, receives bances lasting for a few minutes to a few hours, such as most of the kidney’s blood flow. Blood flow in the renal those elicited by the defense reaction, brain ischemia, or medulla accounts for only 1% to 2% of the total renal blood severe hemorrhage.
