Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood flow. Blood flow in the renal those elicited by the defense reaction, brain ischemia, or medulla accounts for only 1% to 2% of the total renal blood severe hemorrhage. flow. Flow to the renal medulla is supplied by a specialized portion of the peritubular capillary system called the vasa HORMONAL AND AUTACOID CONTROL recta. These vessels descend into the medulla in parallel OF RENAL CIRCULATION with the loops of Henle and then loop back along with the loops of Henle and return to the cortex before empty- Several hormones and autacoids can influence GFR and ing into the venous system. As discussed in Chapter 29, renal blood flow, as summarized in Table 27- 4. 337 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Norepinephrine, Epinephrine, and Endothelin Constrict reabsorption of sodium and water, as discussed in Chap- Renal Blood Vessels and Decrease Glomerular ter 28. Filtration Rate. Hormones that constrict afferent and Thus, increased angiotensin II levels that occur with a efferent arterioles, causing reductions in GFR and renal low- sodium diet or volume depletion help maintain GFR blood flow, include norepinephrine and epinephrine re- and normal excretion of metabolic waste products, such leased from the adrenal medulla. In general, blood levels as urea and creatinine, which depend on glomerular fil- of these hormones parallel the activity of the sympathetic tration for their excretion. At the same time, the angioten- nervous system; thus, norepinephrine and epinephrine sin II–induced constriction of efferent arterioles increases have little influence on renal hemodynamics except under tubular reabsorption of sodium and water, which helps conditions associated with strong activation of the sym- restore blood volume and blood pressure. This effect of pathetic nervous system, such as severe hemorrhage. angiotensin II in helping autoregulate GFR is discussed in Another vasoconstrictor, endothelin, is a peptide that more detail later in this chapter. can be released by damaged vascular endothelial cells of the kidneys, as well as by other tissues. The physiologi- Endothelial-D erived Nitric Oxide Decreases Renal cal role of this autacoid is not completely understood. Vascular Resistance and Increases Glomerular However, endothelin may contribute to hemostasis Filtration Rate. An autacoid that decreases renal vascu- (minimizing blood loss) when a blood vessel is severed, lar resistance and is released by the vascular endothelium which damages the endothelium and releases this pow- throughout the body is endothelial- derived nitric oxide. erful vasoconstrictor. Plasma endothelin levels are
