Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


resistance and is released by the vascular endothelium which damages the endothelium and releases this pow- throughout the body is endothelial- derived nitric oxide. erful vasoconstrictor. Plasma endothelin levels are also A basal level of nitric oxide production appears to be im- increased in many disease states associated with vascular portant for maintaining vasodilation of the kidneys and injury, such as toxemia of pregnancy, acute renal failure, normal excretion of sodium and water. Therefore, admin- and chronic uremia, and may contribute to renal vaso- istration of drugs that inhibit formation of nitric oxide in- constriction and decreased GFR in some of these patho- creases renal vascular resistance and decreases GFR and physiological conditions. urinary sodium excretion, eventually causing high blood pressure. In some hypertensive patients or in patients Angiotensin II Preferentially Constricts Efferent with atherosclerosis, damage of the vascular endotheli- Arterioles in Most Physiological Conditions. A pow- um and impaired nitric oxide production may contribute erful renal vasoconstrictor, angiotensin II, can be consid- to increased renal vasoconstriction and elevated blood ered to be a circulating hormone and a locally produced pressure. autacoid or paracrine hormone because it is formed in the kidneys and in the systemic circulation. Receptors for Prostaglandins and Bradykinin Decrease Renal angiotensin II are present in virtually all blood vessels of Vascular Resistance and Tend to Increase G lomerular the kidneys. However, the preglomerular blood vessels, Filtration Rate. Prostaglandins (PGE2 and PGI2) and especially the afferent arterioles, appear to be relatively bradykinin serve as hormones and autacoids that cause protected from angiotensin II–mediated constriction in vasodilation, increased renal blood flow, and increased most physiological conditions associated with activation GFR. These substances are discussed in Chapter 17. Al- of the renin-a ngiotensin system, such as during a low- though these vasodilators do not appear to be of major sodium diet or reduced renal perfusion pressure due to importance in regulating renal blood flow or the GFR in renal artery stenosis. This protection is due to release of normal conditions, they may dampen the renal vasocon- vasodilators, especially nitric oxide and prostaglandins, strictor effects of the sympathetic nerves or angiotensin which counteract the vasoconstrictor effects of angioten- II, especially their effects to constrict the afferent arteri- sin II in these blood vessels. oles. The efferent arterioles, however, are highly sensitive By opposing vasoconstriction of afferent arterioles, the to angiotensin II. Because angiotensin II preferentially prostaglandins help prevent excessive reductions
