Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


these blood vessels. oles. The efferent arterioles, however, are highly sensitive By opposing vasoconstriction of afferent arterioles, the to angiotensin II. Because angiotensin II preferentially prostaglandins help prevent excessive reductions in GFR constricts efferent arterioles in most physiological con- and renal blood flow. Under stressful conditions, such as ditions, increased angiotensin II levels raise glomerular volume depletion or after surgery, the administration of hydrostatic pressure while reducing renal blood flow. nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as It should be kept in mind that increased angiotensin II aspirin, that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis may cause formation usually occurs in circumstances associated significant reductions in GFR. with decreased arterial pressure or volume depletion, which tend to decrease GFR. In these circumstances, the AUTOREGULATION OF GLOMERULAR increased level of angiotensin II, by constricting efferent FILTRATION RATE AND RENAL BLOOD arterioles, helps prevent decreases in glomerular hydro- FLOW static pressure and GFR. At the same time, though, the reduction in renal blood flow caused by efferent arterio- Feedback mechanisms intrinsic to the kidneys normally lar constriction contributes to decreased flow through keep renal blood flow and GFR relatively constant, the peritubular capillaries, which in turn increases the despite marked changes in arterial blood pressure. 338 Chapter 27 Glomerular Filtration, Renal Blood Flow, and Their Control 1600 160 the changes in renal excretion that would occur without Renal blood flow autoregulatory mechanisms. 1200 120 Glomerular filtration Normally, GFR is about 180 L/day, and tubular reab- 800 rate 80 sorption is 178.5 L/day, leaving 1.5 L/day of fluid to be excreted in the urine. In the absence of autoregulation, 400 40 a relatively small increase in blood pressure (from 100 to 125 mm Hg) would cause a similar 25% increase in GFR 0 0 (from about 180 to 225 L/day). If tubular reabsorption 8 remained constant at 178.5 L/day, the urine flow would increase to 46.5 L/day (the difference between GFR and 6 tubular reabsorption)—a total increase in urine of more 4 than 30- fold. Because the total plasma volume is only about 3 liters, such a change would quickly deplete the 2 blood volume. In reality, changes in arterial pressure usually exert 0 much less of an effect on urine volume for two reasons: 50 100 150 200 (1) renal autoregulation prevents large changes in GFR that Mean arterial pressure (mm Hg) would otherwise occur; and (2) there are additional adap- Figure 27- 9. Autoregulation of
