Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


150 200 (1) renal autoregulation prevents large changes in GFR that Mean arterial pressure (mm Hg) would otherwise occur; and (2) there are additional adap- Figure 27- 9. Autoregulation of renal blood flow and glomerular fil- tive mechanisms in the renal tubules that cause them to tration rate but lack of autoregulation of urine flow during changes increase their reabsorption rate when GFR rises, a phen- in renal arterial pressure. omenon referred to as glomerulotubular balance (dis- cussed in Chapter 28). Even with these special control These mechanisms still function in blood- perfused kid- mechanisms, changes in arterial pressure still have signifi- neys that have been removed from the body, indepen- cant effects on renal excretion of water and sodium; this dent of systemic influences. This relative constancy of effect is referred to as pressure diuresis or pressure natriu- GFR and renal blood flow is referred to as autoregula- resis, and it is crucial in the regulation of body fluid volumes tion (Figure 27-9 ). and arterial pressure, as discussed in Chapters 19 and 30. The primary function of blood flow autoregulation TUBULOGLOMERULAR FEEDBACK AND in most tissues, other than the kidneys, is to maintain AUTOREGULATION OF GLOMERULAR the delivery of oxygen and nutrients at a normal level FILTRATION RATE and remove the waste products of metabolism, despite changes in the arterial pressure. In the kidneys, the nor- The kidneys have a special feedback mechanism that mal blood flow is much higher than that required for links changes in the sodium chloride concentration at the these functions. The major function of autoregulation in macula densa with the control of renal arteriolar resis- the kidneys is to maintain a relatively constant the GFR tance and autoregulation of GFR. This feedback helps and allow precise control of renal excretion of water and ensure a relatively constant delivery of sodium chloride solutes. to the distal tubule and helps prevent spurious fluctua- The GFR normally remains relatively constant, tions in renal excretion that would otherwise occur. In despite considerable arterial pressure fluctuations that many circumstances, this feedback autoregulates renal occur during a person’s usual activities. For example, a blood flow and GFR in parallel. However, because this decrease in arterial pressure to as low as 70 to 75 mm mechanism is specifically directed toward stabilizing Hg or an increase to as high as 160 to 180 mm Hg usu- sodium chloride delivery to the
