Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as 70 to 75 mm mechanism is specifically directed toward stabilizing Hg or an increase to as high as 160 to 180 mm Hg usu- sodium chloride delivery to the distal tubule, instances ally changes the GFR less than 10%. In general, renal occur when GFR is autoregulated at the expense of blood flow is autoregulated in parallel with GFR, but changes in renal blood flow, as discussed later. In other GFR is more efficiently autoregulated under certain cases, this mechanism may actually cause changes in conditions. GFR in response to primary changes in renal tubular sodium chloride reabsorption. Importance of Glomerular Filtration Rate The tubuloglomerular feedback mechanism has two Autoregulation in Preventing Extreme components that act together to control GFR: (1) an affer- Changes in Renal Excretion ent arteriolar feedback mechanism; and (2) an efferent Although the renal autoregulatory mechanisms are not arteriolar feedback mechanism. These feedback mecha- perfect, they do prevent potentially large changes in GFR nisms depend on special anatomical arrangements of the and renal excretion of water and solutes that would oth- juxtaglomerular complex (Figure 27- 10). erwise occur with changes in blood pressure. One can The juxtaglomerular complex consists of macula understand the quantitative importance of autoregula- densa cells in the initial portion of the distal tubule and tion by considering the relative magnitudes of glomerular juxtaglomerular cells in the walls of the afferent and effer- filtration, tubular reabsorption, and renal excretion and ent arterioles. The macula densa is a specialized group 339 wolf doolb laneR )nim/lm( tuptuo enirU )nim/lm( noitartlif raluremolG )nim/lm( etar UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Arterial pressure − − Glomerular hydrostatic pressure Glomerular epithelium GFR Proximal NaCl Macula densa reabsorption NaCl Juxtaglomerular cells Afferent Efferent arteriole arteriole Renin Internal elastic Macula densa Angiotensin II lamina Smooth Basement muscle Distal membrane Efferent Afferent fiber arteriolar arteriolar tubule resistance resistance Figure 27- 10. Structure of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, demon- strating its possible feedback role in the control of nephron function. Figure 27- 11. Macula densa feedback mechanism for autoregula- tion of glomerular hydrostatic pressure and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) during decreased renal arterial pressure. of epithelial cells in the distal tubules that comes in close contact with the afferent and efferent arterioles. The mac- ula densa cells contain the Golgi apparatus, which con- These two components of the tubuloglomerular sists of intracellular secretory organelles directed toward feedback mechanism, operating
