Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and efferent arterioles. The mac- ula densa cells contain the Golgi apparatus, which con- These two components of the tubuloglomerular sists of intracellular secretory organelles directed toward feedback mechanism, operating together by way of the the arterioles, suggesting that these cells may be secreting special anatomical structure of the juxtaglomerular a substance toward the arterioles. apparatus, provide feedback signals to the afferent and efferent arterioles for efficient autoregulation of GFR Decreased Macula Densa Sodium Chloride Causes during changes in arterial pressure. When both of these Dilation of Afferent Arterioles and Increased Renin mechanisms are functioning together, GFR changes by Release. The macula densa cells sense changes in so- only a few percentage points, even with large fluctua- dium chloride delivery to the distal tubule by way of sig- tions in arterial pressure between the limits of 75 and nals that are not completely understood. Experimental 160 mm Hg. studies have suggested that a decreased GFR slows the Blockade of Angiotensin II Formation Further Reduces flow rate in the loop of Henle, causing increased reab- Glomerular Filtration Rate During Renal Hypoperfusion. sorption of the percentage of sodium and chloride ions As discussed earlier, a preferential constrictor action of delivered to the ascending loop of Henle and thereby angiotensin II on efferent arterioles helps prevent serious reducing the concentration of sodium chloride at the reductions in glomerular hydrostatic pressure and GFR macula densa cells. This decrease in sodium chloride when renal perfusion pressure falls below normal. The ad- concentration initiates a signal from the macula densa ministration of drugs that block the formation of angioten- that has two effects (Figure 27-1 1): (1) it decreases re- sin II (angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitors) or that sistance to blood flow in the afferent arterioles, which block the action of angiotensin II (angiotensin II receptor antagonists) may cause greater reductions in GFR than raises glomerular hydrostatic pressure and helps return usual when the renal arterial pressure falls below normal. GFR toward normal; and (2) it increases renin release Therefore, an important complication of using these drugs from the juxtaglomerular cells of the afferent and effer- to treat patients who have hypertension because of renal ent arterioles, which are the major storage sites for re- artery stenosis (partial blockage of the renal artery) is a se- nin. Renin released from these cells then functions as vere decrease in GFR that can, in some cases, cause acute
