Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


stenosis (partial blockage of the renal artery) is a se- nin. Renin released from these cells then functions as vere decrease in GFR that can, in some cases, cause acute an enzyme to increase the formation of angiotensin I, renal failure. Nevertheless, angiotensin II–blocking drugs which is converted to angiotensin II. Finally, angiotensin are important therapeutic agents in many patients with hy- II constricts the efferent arterioles, thereby increasing pertension, congestive heart failure, and other conditions, glomerular hydrostatic pressure and helping return GFR as long as the patients are monitored to ensure that severe toward normal. decreases in GFR do not occur. 340 Chapter 27 Glomerular Filtration, Renal Blood Flow, and Their Control MYOGENIC AUTOREGULATION OF Protein ingestion RENAL BLOOD FLOW AND GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE Amino acids Another mechanism that contributes to the maintenance of a relatively constant renal blood flow and GFR is the ability of individual blood vessels to resist stretching dur- ing increased arterial pressure, referred to as the myogenic Proximal tubular amino acid mechanism. Studies of individual blood vessels (especially reabsorption small arterioles) throughout the body have shown that they respond to increased wall tension or wall stretch by contraction of the vascular smooth muscle. Stretch of the Proximal tubular vascular wall allows increased movement of calcium ions NaCl reabsorption from the extracellular fluid into the cells, causing them to contract through the mechanisms discussed in Chapter 8. This contraction prevents excessive stretch of the vessel Macula densa NaCl and, at the same time, by raising vascular resistance, helps prevent excessive increases in renal blood flow and the Macula GFR when arterial pressure increases. Afferent arteriolar densa Although the myogenic mechanism probably operates feedback resistance in most arterioles throughout the body, its importance in renal blood flow and GFR autoregulation has been questioned by some physiologists because this pressure- GFR sensitive mechanism has no means of directly detecting Figure 27- 12. Possible role of macula densa feedback in mediating changes in renal blood flow or GFR per se. On the other increased glomerular filtration rate (GFR) after a high- protein meal. hand, this mechanism may be more important in pro- tecting the kidney from hypertension-i nduced injury. In response to sudden increases in blood pressure, the myo- A similar mechanism may also explain the marked in- genic constrictor response in afferent arterioles occurs creases in renal blood flow and the GFR that occur with large increases
