Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


myo- A similar mechanism may also explain the marked in- genic constrictor response in afferent arterioles occurs creases in renal blood flow and the GFR that occur with large increases in blood glucose levels in persons with uncon- within seconds and therefore attenuates transmission of trolled diabetes mellitus. Because glucose, like some of the increased arterial pressure to the glomerular capillaries. amino acids, is also reabsorbed along with sodium in the proximal tubule, increased glucose delivery to the tubules High Protein Intake and Hyperglycemia Increase Re- causes them to reabsorb excess sodium along with glucose. nal Blood Flow and Glomerular Filtration Rate. Although This increased reabsorption of sodium, in turn, decreases renal blood flow and GFR are relatively stable under most the sodium chloride concentration at the macula densa, conditions, there are circumstances in which these vari- activating a tubuloglomerular feedback–mediated dilation ables change significantly. For example, a high protein in- of the afferent arterioles and subsequent increases in renal take is known to increase renal blood flow and GFR. With blood flow and GFR. a long- term, high- protein diet, such as one that contains These examples demonstrate that renal blood flow and large amounts of meat, increases in GFR and renal blood GFR per se are not the primary variables controlled by the flow are due partly to growth of the kidneys. However, tubuloglomerular feedback mechanism. The main purpose the GFR and renal blood flow also increase 20% to 30% of this feedback is to ensure a constant delivery of sodium within 1 or 2 hours after a person eats a high- protein chloride to the distal tubule, where final processing of the meal. urine takes place. Thus, disturbances that tend to increase One likely explanation for the increased GFR is the fol- the reabsorption of sodium chloride at tubular sites before lowing. A high- protein meal releases into the blood amino the macula densa tend to elicit increased renal blood flow acids, which are reabsorbed in the proximal tubules. Be- and GFR, which helps return distal sodium chloride deliv- cause amino acids and sodium are reabsorbed together ery toward normal so that normal rates of sodium and wa- by cotransport in the proximal tubules, increased amino ter excretion can be maintained (see Figure 27- 12). acid reabsorption also stimulates sodium reabsorption. An opposite sequence of events occurs when proxi- This increased reabsorption of sodium decreases sodium mal
