Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


excretion can be maintained (see Figure 27- 12). acid reabsorption also stimulates sodium reabsorption. An opposite sequence of events occurs when proxi- This increased reabsorption of sodium decreases sodium mal tubular reabsorption is reduced. For example, when delivery to the macula densa (see Figure 27-1 2), which the proximal tubules are damaged (which can occur as a elicits a tubuloglomerular feedback–mediated decrease result of poisoning by heavy metals, such as mercury, or in resistance of the afferent arterioles, as discussed earlier. large doses of drugs, such as tetracyclines), their ability The decreased afferent arteriolar resistance then raises re- to reabsorb sodium chloride is decreased. As a conse- nal blood flow and GFR, allowing sodium excretion to be quence, large amounts of sodium chloride are delivered to maintained at a nearly normal level while increasing excre- the distal tubule and, without appropriate compensation, tion of the waste products of protein metabolism, such as would quickly cause excessive volume depletion. One of urea. the important compensatory responses appears to be a 341 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Table 27- 5 Some Conditions That Influence Renal Bibliography Blood Flow (RBF) and the Glomerular Filtration Anders HJ, Huber TB, Isermann B, Schiffer M: CKD in diabetes: dia- Rate (GFR) betic kidney disease versus nondiabetic kidney disease. Nat Rev Condition RBF GFR Nephrol 14:361, 2018. Baylis C: Sexual dimorphism: the aging kidney, involvement of nitric Aging ↓ ↓ oxide deficiency, and angiotensin II overactivity. J Gerontol A Biol High dietary protein ↑ ↑ Sci Med Sci 67:1365, 2012. Beierwaltes WH, Harrison- Bernard LM, Sullivan JC, Mattson DL: As- Hyperglycemiaa ↑ ↑ sessment of renal function; clearance, the renal microcirculation, Obesitya ↑ ↑ renal blood flow, and metabolic balance. Compr Physiol 3:165, High NaCl intakea ↑ ↑ 2013. Bidani AK, Polichnowski AJ, Loutzenhiser R, Griffin KA: Renal mi- Glucocorticoids ↑ ↑ crovascular dysfunction, hypertension and CKD progression. Curr Fever, pyrogens ↑ ↑ Opin Nephrol Hypertens 22:1, 2013. Carlström M, Wilcox CS, Arendshorst WJ: Renal autoregulation in aRefers to early effects, prior to development of glomerular injury health and disease. Physiol Rev 95:405, 2015. that may occur with chronic hyperglycemia, obesity, and high Cowley AW Jr, Abe M, Mori T, O’Connor PM, et. al: Reactive oxy- salt intake. gen species as important determinants of medullary flow, sodium excretion, and hypertension. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 308:F179, 2013. tubuloglomerular feedback–mediated renal vasoconstric- de Groat
