Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


al: Reactive oxy- salt intake. gen species as important determinants of medullary flow, sodium excretion, and hypertension. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 308:F179, 2013. tubuloglomerular feedback–mediated renal vasoconstric- de Groat WC, Griffiths D, Yoshimura N: Neural control of the lower tion that occurs in response to the increased sodium chlo- urinary tract. Compr Physiol 5:327, 2015. ride delivery to the macula densa in these circumstances. DiBona GF: Physiology in perspective: the wisdom of the body. Neu- These examples again demonstrate the importance of this ral control of the kidney. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol feedback mechanism for ensuring that the distal tubules 289:R633, 2005. receive the proper rate of delivery of sodium chloride, Gomez RA, Sequeira- Lopez MLS: Renin cells in homeostasis, regener- other tubular fluid solutes, and tubular fluid volume so ation and immune defence mechanisms. Nat Rev Nephrol 14:231, that appropriate amounts of these substances are excreted 2018. in the urine. Griffin KA: Hypertensive kidney injury and the progression of chronic Other Factors That Influence Renal Blood Flow and kidney disease. Hypertension 70:687, 2017. Guan Z, VanBeusecum JP, Inscho EW: Endothelin and the renal mi- Glomerular Filtration Rate. The GFR and renal blood flow crocirculation. Semin Nephrol 35:145, 2015. are low at birth, approach normal adult levels after about 2 Hall JE, Brands MW: The renin- angiotensin-a ldosterone system: renal years of life, and in the absence of kidney disease, are main- mechanisms and circulatory homeostasis. In: Seldin DW, Giebisch tained relatively constant until the fourth decade. Thereaf- G (eds): The Kidney—Physiology and Pathophysiology, 3rd ed. New ter, GFR declines by about 5% to 10% per decade, although York: Raven Press, 2000, pp 1009-1 046. there is considerable variability among individuals. This Hall JE, do Carmo JM, da Silva AA, Wang Z, Hall ME: Obesity, kidney decline in GFR coincides with nitric oxide deficiency, in- dysfunction and hypertension: mechanistic links. Nature Reviews Nephrology 15: 367, 2019. creased oxidative stress, and loss of functional nephrons, Hall JE, do Carmo JM, da Silva AA, Wang Z, Hall ME: Obesity-i nduced which may be related partly to increasing blood pressure, hypertension: interaction of neurohumoral and renal mechanisms. metabolic disorders, and other insults that cause cumula- Circ Res 116:991, 2015. tive glomerular injury with aging. Navar LG, Kobori H, Prieto MC, Gonzalez-V illalobos RA: Intratubular Men have higher renal blood flow and GFR than renin- angiotensin system in hypertension. Hypertension
