Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tive glomerular injury with aging. Navar LG, Kobori H, Prieto MC, Gonzalez-V illalobos RA: Intratubular Men have higher renal blood flow and GFR than renin- angiotensin system in hypertension. Hypertension 57:355, women, even when corrected for body mass. However, 2011. men also have a more rapid decline in GFR with aging Schell C, Huber TB: The evolving complexity of the podocyte cytoskel- than premenopausal women. Although the mechanisms eton. J Am Soc Nephrol 28:3166-, 2017. responsible for these sex differences are not fully under- Schnermann J, Briggs JP: Tubular control of renin synthesis and secre- stood, beneficial effects of estrogens and damaging effects tion. Pflugers Arch 465:39, 2013. Speed JS, Pollock DM: Endothelin, kidney disease, and hypertension. of androgens on the kidneys have been suggested as a par- Hypertension 61:1142, 2013. tial explanation. Table 27-5 summarizes some additional Thomson SC, Blantz RC: Biophysics of glomerular filtration. Compr factors that influence renal blood flow and GFR regula- Physiol 2:1671. tion, and should be considered when assessing kidney Vivarelli M, Massella L, Ruggiero B, Emma F: Minimal change disease. function. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 12:332, 2017. 342 CHAPTER 2 8 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion As the glomerular filtrate enters the renal tubules, it flows excretion for many substances. Thus, a small change in sequentially through the successive parts of the tubule— glomerular filtration or tubular reabsorption can poten- the proximal tubule, loop of Henle, distal tubule, collecting tially cause a relatively large change in urinary excretion. tubule, and collecting duct—before it is excreted as urine. For example, a 10% decrease in tubular reabsorption, Along this course, some substances are selectively reab- from 178.5 to 160.7 L/day, would increase urine volume sorbed from the tubules back into the blood, whereas oth- from 1.5 to 19.3 L/day (almost a 13-f old increase) if the ers are secreted from the blood into the tubular lumen. glomerular filtration rate (GFR) remained constant. In Eventually, the urine that is formed and all the substances reality, changes in tubular reabsorption and glomerular in the urine represent the sum of three basic renal pro- filtration are closely coordinated so that large fluctuations cesses—glomerular filtration, tubular reabsorption, and in urinary excretion are avoided. tubular secretion: Second, unlike glomerular filtration, which is relatively Urinaryexcretion=Glomerularfiltration −Tubular nonselective (essentially all solutes in the plasma are fil- reabsorption+Tubularsecretion tered except the plasma proteins or substances bound to them), tubular reabsorption is highly
