Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


filtration, which is relatively Urinaryexcretion=Glomerularfiltration −Tubular nonselective (essentially all solutes in the plasma are fil- reabsorption+Tubularsecretion tered except the plasma proteins or substances bound to them), tubular reabsorption is highly selective. Some For many substances, tubular reabsorption plays a substances, such as glucose and amino acids, are almost much more important role than secretion in determining completely reabsorbed from the tubules, so the urinary the final urinary excretion rate. However, tubular secre- excretion rate is essentially zero. Many ions in the plasma, tion accounts for significant amounts of potassium ions, such as sodium, chloride, and bicarbonate, are also highly hydrogen ions, and a few other substances that appear in reabsorbed, but their rates of reabsorption and urinary the urine. excretion are variable, depending on the needs of the body. Waste products, such as urea and creatinine, con- TUBULAR REABSORPTION IS versely, are poorly reabsorbed from the tubules and are QUANTITATIVELY LARGE AND excreted in relatively large amounts. HIGHLY SELECTIVE Therefore, by controlling their reabsorption of differ- ent substances, the kidneys regulate excretion of solutes Table 28-1 shows the renal handling of several substances independently of one another, a capability that is essen- that are all freely filtered in the kidneys and reabsorbed at tial for precise control of the body fluid composition. In variable rates. The rate at which each of these substances this chapter, we discuss the mechanisms that allow the is filtered is calculated as follows: kidneys to selectively reabsorb or secrete different sub- Filtration = Glomerularfiltrationrate× stances at variable rates. Plasmaconcentration TUBULAR REABSORPTION INCLUDES This calculation assumes that the substance is freely PASSIVE AND ACTIVE MECHANISMS filtered and not bound to plasma proteins. For example, if plasma glucose concentration is 1 g/L, the amount of For a substance to be reabsorbed, it must first be trans- glucose filtered each day is about 180 L/day × 1 g/L, or ported (1) across the tubular epithelial membranes into 180 g/day. Because virtually none of the filtered glucose the renal interstitial fluid and then (2) through the peri- is normally excreted, the rate of glucose reabsorption is tubular capillary membrane back into the blood (Figure also 180 g/day. 28- 1). Thus, reabsorption of water and solutes includes a From Table 28-1 , two things are immediately appar- series of transport steps. Reabsorption across the tubular ent. First, the processes of glomerular filtration and tubu- epithelium into the interstitial fluid includes
