Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


through the cells and between the tubular cells by osmosis. Transport tight junctions and intercellular spaces via the paracellu- of water and solutes from the interstitial fluid into the peritubular lar pathway. Sodium is a substance that moves through capillaries occurs by ultrafiltration (bulk flow). both routes, although most of the sodium is transported through the transcellular pathway. In some nephron seg- in Chapter 4 for transport across other cell membranes ments, especially the proximal tubule, water is also reab- of the body. For example, water and solutes can be trans- sorbed across the paracellular pathway, and substances ported through the cell membranes (transcellular route) dissolved in the water, especially potassium, magnesium, or through the spaces between the cell junctions (paracel- and chloride ions, are carried with the reabsorbed fluid lular route). Then, after absorption across the tubular epi- between the cells. thelial cells into the interstitial fluid, water and solutes are Primary Active Transport Through the Tubular Mem- transported through the peritubular capillary walls into brane Linked to Hydrolysis of Adenosine Triphos- the blood by ultrafiltration (bulk flow) that is mediated phatase. The special importance of primary active trans- by hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces. The peritubu- port is that it can move solutes against an electrochemical lar capillaries behave like the venous ends of most other gradient. The energy for this active transport comes from capillaries because there is a net reabsorptive force that the hydrolysis of ATP by way of membrane- bound AT- moves the fluid and solutes from the interstitium into the Pase, which is also a component of the carrier mechanism blood. that binds and moves solutes across the cell membranes. ACTIVE TRANSPORT The primary active transporters in the kidneys that are known include Na+- K+ ATPase, hydrogen ATPase, Active transport can move a solute against an electro- hydrogen- potassium ATPase, and calcium ATPase. chemical gradient; this requires energy derived from A good example of a primary active transport system metabolism. Transport that is coupled directly to an is the reabsorption of sodium ions across the proximal energy source, such as the hydrolysis of adenosine tubular membrane, as shown in Figure 28- 2. On the 344 Chapter 28 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion Peritubular Tubular Tubular Thus, the net reabsorption of sodium ions from the capillary epithelial cells lumen tubular lumen back into the blood involves at least three steps: 1. Sodium diffuses across the
