Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Tubular Thus, the net reabsorption of sodium ions from the capillary epithelial cells lumen tubular lumen back into the blood involves at least three steps: 1. Sodium diffuses across the luminal membrane (also Na+ called the apical membrane) into the cell down an electrochemical gradient established by the Na+- K+ ATP Na+ ATPase pump on the basolateral side of the mem- Na+ ATP K+ (–3 mV) brane. K+ 2. Sodium is transported across the basolateral mem- (–70 mV) Tight junction brane against an electrochemical gradient by the Na+- K+ ATPase pump. Brush border Basal (luminal 3. Sodium, water, and other substances are reabsorbed channels membrane) from the interstitial fluid into the peritubular capillar- Interstitial Basement Intercellular space ies by ultrafiltration, a passive process driven by the fluid membrane hydrostatic and colloid osmotic pressure gradients. Figure 28- 2 Basic mechanism for active transport of sodium through Secondary Active Reabsorption Through the Tubular the tubular epithelial cell. The sodium- potassium pump transports so- dium from the interior of the cell across the basolateral membrane, Membrane. In secondary active transport, two or more creating a low intracellular sodium concentration and a negative in- substances interact with a specific membrane protein (a tracellular electrical potential. The low intracellular sodium concen- carrier molecule) and are transported together across the tration and negative electrical potential cause sodium ions to diffuse membrane. As one of the substances (e.g., sodium) dif- from the tubular lumen into the cell through the brush border. fuses down its electrochemical gradient, the energy re- leased is used to drive another substance (e.g., glucose) basolateral sides of the tubular epithelial cell, the cell against its electrochemical gradient. Thus, secondary ac- membrane has an extensive Na+- K+ ATPase system that tive transport does not require energy directly from ATP hydrolyzes ATP and uses the released energy to trans- or from other high- energy phosphate sources. Rather, the port sodium ions out of the cell into the interstitium. direct source of the energy is that liberated by the simul- At the same time, potassium is transported from the taneous facilitated diffusion of another transported sub- interstitium to the inside of the cell. The operation of stance down its own electrochemical gradient. this ion pump maintains low intracellular sodium and Figure 28-3 shows secondary active transport of glu- high intracellular potassium concentrations and cre- cose and amino acids in the proximal tubule. In both ates a
