Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


low intracellular sodium and Figure 28-3 shows secondary active transport of glu- high intracellular potassium concentrations and cre- cose and amino acids in the proximal tubule. In both ates a net negative charge of about −70 millivolts within cases, specific carrier proteins in the brush border com- the cell. This active pumping of sodium out of the cell bine with a sodium ion and an amino acid or a glucose across the basolateral membrane of the cell favors pas- molecule at the same time. These transport mechanisms sive diffusion of sodium across the luminal membrane are so efficient that they remove virtually all the glucose of the cell, from the tubular lumen into the cell, for two and amino acids from the tubular lumen. After entry into reasons: (1) there is a concentration gradient favoring the cell, glucose and amino acids exit across the basolat- sodium diffusion into the cell because the intracellular eral membranes by diffusion, driven by the high glucose sodium concentration is low (12 mEq/L) and tubular and amino acid concentrations in the cell facilitated by fluid sodium concentration is high (140 mEq/L); and specific transport proteins. (2) the negative, −70-m illivolt, intracellular poten- Sodium glucose co-t ransporters (SGLT2 and SGLT1) are tial attracts the positive sodium ions from the tubular located on the brush border of proximal tubular cells and lumen into the cell. carry glucose into the cell cytoplasm against a concentra- Active reabsorption of sodium by Na+ - K+ ATPase tion gradient, as described previously. Approximately 90% occurs in most parts of the tubule. In certain parts of the of the filtered glucose is reabsorbed by SGLT2 in the early nephron, there are also additional provisions for moving part of the proximal tubule (S1 segment), and the residual large amounts of sodium into the cell. In the proximal 10% is transported by SGLT1 in the latter segments of tubule, there is an extensive brush border on the lumi- the proximal tubule. On the basolateral side of the mem- nal side of the membrane (the side that faces the tubular brane, glucose diffuses out of the cell into the interstitial lumen) that multiplies the surface area by about 20-f old. spaces with the help of glucose transporters—GLUT2 in There are also carrier proteins that bind sodium ions on the S1 segment and GLUT1 in the latter part (S3 segment) the luminal surface of the membrane
