Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


glucose transporters—GLUT2 in There are also carrier proteins that bind sodium ions on the S1 segment and GLUT1 in the latter part (S3 segment) the luminal surface of the membrane and release them of the proximal tubule. inside the cell, providing facilitated diffusion of sodium Although transport of glucose against a chemical gradi- through the membrane into the cell. These sodium carrier ent does not directly use ATP, the reabsorption of glucose proteins are also important for secondary active transport depends on energy expended by the primary active Na+- of other substances, such as glucose and amino acids, as K+ ATPase pump in the basolateral membrane. Because of discussed later. the activity of this pump, an electrochemical gradient for 345 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Interstitial Tubular Tubular One example of counter- transport, shown in Figure fluid cells lumen 28- 3, is the active secretion of hydrogen ions coupled Co-transport to sodium reabsorption in the luminal membrane of the Glucose proximal tubule. In this case, sodium entry into the cell is GLUT Glucose SGLT coupled with hydrogen extrusion from the cell by sodium- NNaa++ hydrogen counter- transport. This transport is mediated NNaa++ −70 mV by a specific protein (sodium- hydrogen exchanger) in the ATP NNaa++ brush border of the luminal membrane. As sodium is car- KK++ ried to the interior of the cell, hydrogen ions are forced Amino acids Amino acids outward in the opposite direction into the tubular lumen. The basic principles of primary and secondary active transport are discussed in Chapter 4. Pinocytosis Is an Active Transport Mechanism for Re- absorption of Proteins. Some parts of the tubule, espe- NNaa++ NNaa++ cially the proximal tubule, reabsorb large molecules such as −70 mV ATP NHE proteins via pinocytosis, a type of endocytosis. In this pro- KK++ HH++ cess, the protein attaches to the brush border of the luminal membrane, and this portion of the membrane then invagi- nates to the interior of the cell until it is completely pinched Counter-transport off and a vesicle is formed containing the protein. Once inside the cell, the protein is digested into its constituent Figure 28- 3 Mechanisms of secondary active transport. The upper cell shows the co- transport of glucose and amino acids along with amino acids, which are reabsorbed through the basolateral sodium ions through the apical side of the tubular epithelial cells, membrane into the interstitial
