Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of glucose and amino acids along with amino acids, which are reabsorbed through the basolateral sodium ions through the apical side of the tubular epithelial cells, membrane into the interstitial fluid. Because pinocytosis followed by facilitated diffusion through the basolateral membranes. requires energy, it is considered a form of active transport. The lower cell shows the counter- transport of hydrogen ions from the interior of the cell across the apical membrane and into the tubu- Transport Maximum for Substances That Are A ctively lar lumen; movement of sodium ions into the cell, down an electro- Reabsorbed. For most substances that are actively reab- chemical gradient established by the sodium- potassium pump on the sorbed or secreted, there is a limit to the rate at which the basolateral membrane, provides the energy for transport of the hy- solute can be transported, which is often referred to as the drogen ions from inside the cell into the tubular lumen. ATP, Adeno- sine triphosphate; GLUT, glucose transporter; NHE, sodium-h ydrogen transport maximum. This limit is due to saturation of the exchanger; SGLT, sodium- glucose co- transporter. specific transport systems involved when the amount of solute delivered to the tubule (referred to as the tubular load) exceeds the capacity of the carrier proteins and spe- facilitated diffusion of sodium across the luminal mem- cific enzymes involved in the transport process. brane is maintained, and it is this downhill diffusion of The glucose transport system in the proximal tubule is sodium to the interior of the cell that provides the energy a good example. Normally, measurable glucose does not for the simultaneous uphill transport of glucose across the appear in the urine because essentially all the filtered glu- luminal membrane. Thus, this reabsorption of glucose is cose is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. However, when referred to as secondary active transport because glucose the filtered load exceeds the capability of the tubules to itself is reabsorbed uphill against a chemical gradient, but reabsorb glucose, urinary excretion of glucose does occur. it is secondary to primary active transport of sodium. In the adult human, the transport maximum for glu- Another important point is that a substance is said to cose averages about 375 mg/min, whereas the filtered load undergo active transport when at least one of the steps of glucose is only about 125 mg/min (GFR × plasma in the reabsorption involves primary or secondary active
