Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


filtered load undergo active transport when at least one of the steps of glucose is only about 125 mg/min (GFR × plasma in the reabsorption involves primary or secondary active glucose = 125 ml/min × 1 mg/ml). With large increases in transport, even though other steps in the reabsorption GFR and/or plasma glucose concentration that increase the process may be passive. For glucose reabsorption, sec- filtered load of glucose above 375 mg/min, the excess glu- ondary active transport occurs at the luminal membrane, cose filtered is not reabsorbed and passes into the urine. but passive facilitated diffusion occurs at the basolateral Figure 28- 4 shows the relationship between plasma membrane, and passive uptake by bulk flow occurs at the concentration of glucose, filtered load of glucose, tubular peritubular capillaries. transport maximum for glucose, and rate of glucose loss in Secondary Active Secretion Into the Tubules. Some the urine. Note that when the plasma glucose concentra- substances are secreted into the tubules by secondary ac- tion is 100 mg/100 ml and the filtered load is at its normal tive transport, which often involves counter- transport of level (125 mg/min), there is no loss of glucose in the urine. the substance with sodium ions. In counter- transport, the However, when the plasma concentration of glucose rises energy liberated from the downhill movement of one of above about 200 mg/100 ml, increasing the filtered load the substances (e.g., sodium ions) enables the uphill move- to about 250 mg/min, a small amount of glucose begins to ment of a second substance in the opposite direction. appear in the urine. This point is termed the threshold for 346 Chapter 28 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion 900 Substance Transport Maximum Creatinine 16 mg/min 800 Para- aminohippuric acid 80 mg/min 700 FFiilltteerreedd llooaadd 600 Substances That Are Actively Transported but Do Not Excretion Exhibit a Transport Maximum. The reason that actively 500 transported solutes often exhibit a transport maximum is 400 that the transport carrier system becomes saturated as the tubular load increases. Some substances that are actively 300 Transport maximum Reabsorption reabsorbed do not demonstrate a transport maximum be- cause their rate of transport is determined by other fac- 200 Normal tors, such as the following: (1) the electrochemical gradi- 100 ent for diffusion of the substance across the membrane; Threshold (2) the permeability of the membrane for the substance; 0 and (3) the time that
