Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(1) the electrochemical gradi- 100 ent for diffusion of the substance across the membrane; Threshold (2) the permeability of the membrane for the substance; 0 and (3) the time that the fluid containing the substance 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 remains within the tubule. Transport of this type is re- Plasma glucose concentration (mg/100 ml) ferred to as gradient- time transport because the rate of transport depends on the electrochemical gradient and Figure 28- 4 Relationships among the filtered load of glucose, rate of glucose reabsorption by the renal tubules, and rate of glucose ex- the time that the substance is in the tubule, which in turn cretion in the urine. The transport maximum is the maximum rate at depends on the tubular flow rate. which glucose can be reabsorbed from the tubules. The threshold for An example of gradient- time transport is sodium glucose refers to the filtered load of glucose at which glucose first reabsorption in the proximal tubule, where the maxi- begins to be excreted in the urine. + + mum transport capacity of the basolateral Na - K ATPase pump is usually far greater than the actual glucose. Note that this appearance of glucose in the urine rate of net sodium reabsorption because a significant (at the threshold) occurs before the transport maximum is amount of sodium transported out of the cell leaks back reached. One reason for the difference between the thresh- into the tubular lumen through junctions of the epithe- old and transport maximum is that not all nephrons have lial cells. The rate at which this backleak occurs depends the same transport maximum for glucose, and some of the on (1) the permeability of the tight junctions; and (2) the nephrons therefore begin to excrete glucose before others interstitial physical forces, which determine the rate of have reached their transport maximum. The overall trans- bulk flow reabsorption from the interstitial fluid into the port maximum for the kidneys, which is normally about peritubular capillaries. Therefore, sodium transport in 375 mg/min, is reached when all nephrons have reached the proximal tubules obeys mainly gradient- time trans- their maximal capacity to reabsorb glucose. port principles rather than tubular maximum transport The plasma glucose of a healthy person almost never characteristics. This observation means that the higher becomes high enough to cause glucose excretion in the the concentration of sodium in the
