Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


plasma glucose of a healthy person almost never characteristics. This observation means that the higher becomes high enough to cause glucose excretion in the the concentration of sodium in the proximal tubules, urine, even after eating a meal. However, in uncontrolled the higher is its reabsorption rate. Also, the slower the diabetes mellitus, plasma glucose concentration may rise to flow rate of tubular fluid, the greater the percentage high levels, causing the filtered load of glucose to exceed of sodium that can be reabsorbed from the proximal the transport maximum and resulting in urinary glucose tubules. excretion. Some of the important transport maximums for In the more distal parts of the nephron, the epithelial substances actively reabsorbed by the tubules are as follows: cells have much tighter junctions and transport much smaller amounts of sodium. In these segments, sodium Substance Transport Maximum reabsorption exhibits a transport maximum similar to that for other actively transported substances. Further- Glucose 375 mg/min more, this transport maximum can be increased by cer- Phosphate 0.10 mmol/min tain hormones, such as aldosterone. Sulfate 0.06 mmol/min PASSIVE WATER REABSORPTION BY Amino acids 1.5 mmol/min OSMOSIS COUPLED MAINLY TO SODIUM Urate 15 mg/min REABSORPTION Lactate 75 mg/min Plasma protein 30 mg/min When solutes are transported out of the tubule by pri- mary or secondary active transport, their concentrations Transport Maximums for Actively Secreted Sub- tend to decrease inside the tubule while increasing in stances. Substances that are actively secreted also exhibit the renal interstitium. This phenomenon creates a con- transport maximums, as follows: centration difference that causes osmosis of water in the 347 noitprosbaer ,daol deretlif esoculG )nim/gm( noitercxe ro UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys same direction that the solutes are transported, from the Na+ reabsorption tubular lumen to the renal interstitium. Some parts of the renal tubule, especially the proximal tubule, are highly permeable to water, and water reabsorption occurs so H O reabsorption rapidly that there is only a small concentration gradient 2 for solutes across the tubular membrane. A large part of the osmotic flow of water in the proxi- mal tubules occurs through water channels (aquaporins) LLuummeenn LLuummiinnaall LLuummiinnaall CCll–– in the cell membranes, as well as through the tight junc- nneeggaattiivvee uurreeaa ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn tions between the epithelial cells. As noted previously, the ppootteennttiiaall ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn junctions between the cells are not as tight as their name would imply and permit
