Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


junc- nneeggaattiivvee uurreeaa ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn tions between the epithelial cells. As noted previously, the ppootteennttiiaall ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn junctions between the cells are not as tight as their name would imply and permit significant diffusion of water and small ions. This condition is especially true in the proxi- Passive Cl– Passive urea mal tubules, which have a high permeability for water and reabsorption reabsorption a smaller but significant permeability to most ions, such Figure 28- 5 Mechanisms whereby water, chloride, and urea reab- as sodium, chloride, potassium, calcium, and magnesium. sorption are coupled with sodium reabsorption. Water moving across the tight junctions by osmosis also carries with it some of the solutes, a process referred to as solvent drag. In addition, because the reabsorption of water, to diffuse passively through the paracellular pathway. organic solutes, and ions is coupled to sodium reabsorp- Additional reabsorption of chloride ions occurs because tion, changes in sodium reabsorption significantly influ- of a chloride concentration gradient that develops when ence the reabsorption of water and many other solutes. water is reabsorbed from the tubule by osmosis, thereby In the more distal parts of the nephron, beginning in concentrating the chloride ions in the tubular lumen the loop of Henle and extending through the collecting (Figure 28-5 ). Thus, active reabsorption of sodium is tubule, the tight junctions become far less permeable closely coupled to passive reabsorption of chloride by to water and solutes, and the epithelial cells also have a way of an electrical potential and a chloride concentra- greatly decreased membrane surface area. Therefore, tion gradient. water cannot move easily across the tight junctions of Chloride ions can also be reabsorbed by secondary the tubular membrane by osmosis. However, antidiuretic active transport. The most important of the second- hormone (ADH) greatly increases the water permeability ary active transport processes for chloride reabsorption in the distal and collecting tubules. involves the co- transport of chloride with sodium across Thus, water movement across the tubular epithelium the luminal membrane. can occur only if the membrane is permeable to water, no Urea is also passively reabsorbed from the tubule, matter how large the osmotic gradient. In the proximal but to a much lesser extent than chloride ions. As water tubule and descending loop of Henle, water permeability is reabsorbed from the tubules (by osmosis coupled to is always high, and water is rapidly reabsorbed to reach sodium reabsorption), urea concentration
