Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and descending loop of Henle, water permeability is reabsorbed from the tubules (by osmosis coupled to is always high, and water is rapidly reabsorbed to reach sodium reabsorption), urea concentration in the tubu- osmotic equilibrium with the surrounding interstitial lar lumen increases (see Figure 28- 5). This increase fluid. This high permeability is due to abundant expres- creates a concentration gradient favoring reabsorption sion of the water channel aquaporin- 1 (AQP- 1) in the of urea. However, urea does not permeate the tubule luminal and basolateral membranes. In the ascending as readily as water. In some parts of the nephron, espe- loop of Henle, water permeability is always low, so almost cially the inner medullary collecting duct, passive urea no water is reabsorbed, despite a large osmotic gradient. reabsorption is facilitated by specific urea transporters. Water permeability in the last parts of the tubules—the Yet, only about half of the urea that is filtered by the distal tubules, collecting tubules, and collecting ducts— glomerular capillaries is reabsorbed from the tubules. occurs through aquaporins and can be high or low, The remaining urea passes into the urine, allowing the depending on the presence or absence of ADH. kidneys to excrete large amounts of this waste product REABSORPTION OF CHLORIDE, UREA, of metabolism. In mammals, more than 90% of waste AND OTHER SOLUTES BY PASSIVE nitrogen, mainly generated in the liver as a product of DIFFUSION protein metabolism, is normally excreted by the kidneys as urea. When sodium is reabsorbed through the tubular epithe- Another waste product of metabolism, creatinine, is an lial cell, negative ions such as chloride are transported even larger molecule than urea and is essentially imper- along with sodium because of electrical potentials. That meant to the tubular membrane. Therefore, almost none is, transport of positively charged sodium ions out of the of the creatinine that is filtered is reabsorbed, so virtually lumen leaves the inside of the lumen negatively charged, all the creatinine filtered by the glomerulus is excreted in compared with the interstitial fluid causing chloride ions the urine. 348 Chapter 28 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion 65% The extensive membrane surface of the epithelial brush border is also loaded with protein carrier molecules that Proximal tubule transport a large fraction of the sodium ions across the luminal membrane linked via the co- transport mecha- nism with multiple organic nutrients such as amino acids Na+, Cl–,
