Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tubule transport a large fraction of the sodium ions across the luminal membrane linked via the co- transport mecha- nism with multiple organic nutrients such as amino acids Na+, Cl–, HCO –, K+, 3 and glucose. Additional sodium is transported from the H O, glucose, amino acids 2 tubular lumen into the cell by counter- transport mecha- Isosmotic nisms that reabsorb sodium while secreting other sub- stances into the tubular lumen, especially hydrogen ions. H+, organic acids, bases As discussed in Chapter 31, secretion of hydrogen ions into the tubular lumen is an important step in the removal of bicarbonate ions from the tubule (by combining H+ with the HCO − to form H CO , which then dissociates 3 2 3 Figure 28- 6 Cellular ultrastructure and primary transport character- into H O and CO ). 2 2 istics of the proximal tubule. The proximal tubules reabsorb about Although the Na+- K+ ATPase pump provides the 65% of the filtered sodium, chloride, bicarbonate, and potassium major force for the reabsorption of sodium, chloride, and and essentially all the filtered glucose and amino acids. The proximal tubules also secrete organic acids, bases, and hydrogen ions into the water throughout proximal tubule, there are some differ- tubular lumen. ences in the mechanisms whereby sodium and chloride are transported through the luminal side of the early and REABSORPTION AND SECRETION late portions of the proximal tubular membrane. ALONG DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE In the first half of the proximal tubule, sodium is reab- NEPHRON sorbed by co- transport along with glucose, amino acids, and other solutes. However, in the second half of the prox- In the previous sections, we discussed the basic prin- imal tubule, little glucose and few amino acids remain to ciples whereby water and solutes are transported across be reabsorbed. Instead, sodium is now reabsorbed, mainly the tubular membrane. With these generalizations in with chloride ions. The second half of the proximal tubule mind, we can now discuss the different characteristics of has a relatively high concentration of chloride (≈140 the individual tubular segments that enable them to per- mEq/L) compared with the early proximal tubule (≈105 form their specific functions. Only the tubular transport mEq/L) because when sodium is reabsorbed, it prefer- functions that are quantitatively most important will be entially carries with it glucose, bicarbonate, and organic discussed, especially as they relate to the reabsorption ions in
