Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is reabsorbed, it prefer- functions that are quantitatively most important will be entially carries with it glucose, bicarbonate, and organic discussed, especially as they relate to the reabsorption ions in the early proximal tubule, leaving behind a solu- of sodium, chloride, and water. In subsequent chapters, tion that has a higher concentration of chloride. In the we discuss the reabsorption and secretion of other sub- second half of the proximal tubule, the higher chloride stances in different parts of the tubular system. concentration favors diffusion of this ion from the tubule lumen through the intercellular junctions into the renal PROXIMAL TUBULAR REABSORPTION interstitial fluid. Smaller amounts of chloride may also Normally, about 65% of the filtered load of sodium and be reabsorbed through specific chloride channels in the water and a slightly lower percentage of filtered chloride proximal tubular cell membrane. are reabsorbed by the proximal tubule before the filtrate Concentrations of Solutes Along Proximal Tubules. reaches the loops of Henle. These percentages can be Figure 28-7 summarizes the changes in concentration of increased or decreased in different physiological condi- various solutes along the proximal tubule. Although the tions, as discussed later. amount of sodium in the tubular fluid decreases mark- Proximal Tubules Have High Capacity for Active and edly along the proximal tubule, sodium concentration Passive Reabsorption. The high capacity of the proxi- (and total osmolarity) remains relatively constant because mal tubule for reabsorption results from its special water permeability of the proximal tubules is so great that cellular characteristics, as shown in Figure 28- 6. The water reabsorption keeps pace with sodium reabsorption. proximal tubule epithelial cells are highly metabolic and Certain organic solutes, such as glucose, amino acids, and have large numbers of mitochondria to support power- bicarbonate, are much more avidly reabsorbed than wa- ful active transport processes. In addition, the proximal ter, and their concentrations decrease markedly along the tubular cells have an extensive brush border on the lu- length of the proximal tubule. Other organic solutes that minal (apical) side of the membrane, as well as an ex- are less permeant and not actively reabsorbed, such as tensive labyrinth of intercellular and basal channels, creatinine, increase their concentration along the proxi- all of which together provide an extensive membrane mal tubule. The total solute concentration, as reflected surface area on the luminal and basolateral sides of the by osmolarity, remains essentially the same all
