Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


together provide an extensive membrane mal tubule. The total solute concentration, as reflected surface area on the luminal and basolateral sides of the by osmolarity, remains essentially the same all along the epithelium for rapid transport of sodium ions and other proximal tubule because of the extremely high permeabil- substances. ity of this part of the nephron to water. 349 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys 5.0 Thin descending Creatinine loop of Henle 2.0 Urea Cl− 1.0 Na+ Osmolarity H 2O 0.5 HCO − 0.2 3 0.1 Glucose Thick ascending 0.05 loop of Henle Amino acids 25% 0.01 Na+, Cl–, K+, 0 20 40 60 80 100 Ca2+, HCO 3–, Mg2+ % Total proximal tubule length Hypo- Figure 28- 7 Changes in concentrations of different substances in tu- osmotic bular fluid along the proximal convoluted tubule relative to the con- centrations of these substances in the plasma and glomerular filtrate. H+ A value of 1.0 indicates that the concentration of the substance in the tubular fluid is the same as the concentration in the plasma. Values below 1.0 indicate that the substance is reabsorbed more avidly than water, whereas values above 1.0 indicate that the substance is reab- sorbed to a lesser extent than water or is secreted into the tubules. Figure 28- 8 Cellular ultrastructure and transport characteristics of the thin descending loop of Henle (top) and thick ascending segment of the loop of Henle (bottom). The descending part of the thin seg- ment of the loop of Henle is highly permeable to water and moder- Secretion of Organic Acids and Bases by Proximal Tu- ately permeable to most solutes but has few mitochondria and little bules. The proximal tubule is also an important site for or no active reabsorption. The thick ascending limb of the loop of secretion of organic acids and bases such as bile salts, oxa- Henle reabsorbs about 25% of the filtered loads of sodium, chloride, late, urate, and catecholamines. Many of these substances and potassium, as well as large amounts of calcium, bicarbonate, and magnesium. This segment also secretes hydrogen ions into the are the end products of metabolism and must be rapidly tubular lumen. removed from the body. The secretion of these substances into the proximal tubule plus filtration into the proximal tubule by the glomerular capillaries and almost total lack descending and thin ascending segments, as their names of
