Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of these substances into the proximal tubule plus filtration into the proximal tubule by the glomerular capillaries and almost total lack descending and thin ascending segments, as their names of reabsorption by the tubules, all combined, contribute imply, have thin epithelial membranes with no brush bor- to rapid excretion in the urine. ders, few mitochondria, and minimal levels of metabolic In addition to the waste products of metabolism, the activity (Figure 28-8 ). kidneys secrete many potentially harmful drugs or toxins The descending part of the thin segment is highly into the tubules and rapidly clear these substances from permeable to water and moderately permeable to most the blood. In the case of certain drugs, such as penicillin solutes, including urea and sodium. The function of this and salicylates, the rapid clearance by the kidneys creates nephron segment is mainly to allow simple diffusion of a challenge in maintaining a therapeutically effective drug substances through its walls. About 20% of the filtered concentration. water is reabsorbed in the loop of Henle, and almost all Another compound that is rapidly secreted by the of this occurs in the thin descending limb. The ascending proximal tubule is para- aminohippuric acid (PAH). PAH limb, including both the thin and thick portions, is virtu- is secreted so rapidly that the average person can clear ally impermeable to water, a characteristic that is impor- about 90% of the PAH from the plasma flowing through tant for concentrating the urine. the kidneys and excrete it in the urine. For this reason, the The thick segment of the loop of Henle, which begins rate of PAH clearance can be used to estimate the renal about halfway up the ascending limb, has thick epithe- plasma flow (RPF), as discussed later. lial cells that have high metabolic activity and are capable SOLUTE AND WATER TRANSPORT IN of active reabsorption of sodium, chloride, and potas- LOOPS OF HENLE sium (see Figure 28-8 ). About 25% of the filtered loads of sodium, chloride, and potassium are reabsorbed in the The loop of Henle consists of three functionally distinct loop of Henle, mostly in the thick ascending limb. Con- segments—the thin descending segment, thin ascend- siderable amounts of other ions, such as calcium, bicar- ing segment, and thick ascending segment. The thin bonate, and magnesium, are also reabsorbed in the thick 350 noitartnecnoc amsalp/diulf ralubuT Chapter 28 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion
