Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the ascending limb of the loop of also transported into the tubular cell by sodium- hydrogen counter- Henle empties into the distal tubule. The first portion transport. The positive charge (+8 mV) of the tubular lumen relative of the distal tubule forms the macula densa, a group of to the interstitial fluid forces cations such as Mg2+ and Ca2+ to diffuse closely packed epithelial cells that is part of the juxtaglo- from the lumen to the interstitial fluid via the paracellular pathway. merular complex and provides feedback control of the GFR and blood flow in this same nephron. The next part of the distal tubule is highly convoluted ascending loop of Henle. The thin segment of the ascend- and has many of the same reabsorptive characteristics ing limb has a much lower reabsorptive capacity than the of the thick segment of the ascending limb of the loop of thick segment, and the thin descending limb does not Henle. That is, it avidly reabsorbs most of the ions, includ- reabsorb significant amounts of any of these solutes. ing sodium, potassium, and chloride, but is virtually imper- An important component of solute reabsorption in the thick ascending limb is the Na+- K+ ATPase pump in the meable to water and urea. For this reason, it is referred to as the diluting segment because it also dilutes the tubular fluid. epithelial cell basolateral membranes. As in the proximal Approximately 5% of the filtered load of sodium chlo- tubule, the reabsorption of other solutes in the thick seg- ride is reabsorbed in the early distal tubule. The sodium- ment of the ascending loop of Henle is closely linked to the reabsorptive capability of the Na+- K+ ATPase pump, chloride co- transporter moves sodium chloride from the tubular lumen into the cell, and the Na+- K+ ATPase pump which maintains a low intracellular sodium concentra- transports sodium out of the cell across the basolateral tion. The low intracellular sodium concentration in turn membrane (Figure 28-1 0). Chloride diffuses out of cell provides a favorable gradient for movement of sodium into the renal interstitial fluid through chloride channels from the tubular fluid into the cell. In the thick ascend- in the basolateral membrane. ing loop, movement of sodium across the luminal mem- The thiazide diuretics, which are widely used to treat brane is mediated primarily by a 1- sodium, 2- chloride, disorders such as hypertension and
