Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of sodium across the luminal mem- The thiazide diuretics, which are widely used to treat brane is mediated primarily by a 1- sodium, 2- chloride, disorders such as hypertension and heart failure, inhibit 1- potassium cotransporter (NKCC2) (Figure 28-9 ). This the sodium- chloride co-t ransporter. co- transport protein in the luminal membrane uses the potential energy released by downhill diffusion of sodium LATE DISTAL TUBULES AND CORTICAL into the cell to drive the reabsorption of potassium into COLLECTING TUBULES the cell against a concentration gradient. The thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle is the The second half of the distal tubule and subsequent site of action of the powerful loop diuretics furosemide, cortical collecting tubule have similar functional char- ethacrynic acid, and bumetanide, all of which inhibit the acteristics. Anatomically, they are composed of two dis- action of the NKCC2 co- transporter. These diuretics are tinct cell types, the principal cells and intercalated cells 351 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Renal Tubular Early distal tubule interstitial Tubular lumen fluid cells (−10 mV) Na+, Cl–, Ca2+, Mg2+ NNaa++ ATP NNaa++ KK++ − CCll–– CCll–– Late distal tubule and cortical collecting tubule TThhiiaazziiddee ddiiuurreettiiccss Principal Na+, Cl– cells Figure 28- 10 Mechanism of sodium chloride transport in the early distal tubule. Sodium and chloride are transported from the tubular lumen into the cell by a co- transporter that is inhibited by thiazide (+ADH) H O K+ 2 diuretics. Sodium is pumped out of the cell by Na+- K+ ATPase adeno- sine triphosphatase, and chloride diffuses into the interstitial fluid via H+ chloride channels. (Figure 28-1 1). The principal cells reabsorb sodium and HCO – Type A 3 water from the lumen and secrete potassium ions into the intercalated cells K+ lumen. The type A intercalated cells reabsorb potassium Figure 28- 11 Cellular ultrastructure and transport characteristics of ions and secrete hydrogen ions into the tubular lumen. the early distal tubule and late distal tubule and collecting tubule. The Principal Cells Reabsorb Sodium and Secrete Potassium. early distal tubule has many of the same characteristics as the thick ascending loop of Henle and reabsorbs sodium, chloride, calcium, Sodium reabsorption and potassium secretion by the princi- and magnesium but is virtually impermeable to water and urea. The pal cells depend on the activity of a Na+- K+ ATPase pump in late distal tubules and cortical collecting tubules
