Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


magnesium but is virtually impermeable to water and urea. The pal cells depend on the activity of a Na+- K+ ATPase pump in late distal tubules and cortical collecting tubules are composed of two each cell’s basolateral membrane (Figure 28-1 2). This pump distinct cell types, the principal cells and intercalated cells. The prin- maintains a low sodium concentration inside the cell and, cipal cells reabsorb sodium from the lumen and secrete potassium ions into the lumen. Type A intercalated cells reabsorb potassium and therefore, favors sodium diffusion into the cell through spe- bicarbonate ions from the lumen and secrete hydrogen ions into the cial channels. Secretion of potassium by these cells from the lumen. The reabsorption of water from this tubular segment is con- blood into the tubular lumen involves two steps: (1) potas- trolled by the concentration of antidiuretic hormone. sium enters the cell because of the Na+- K+ ATPase pump, which maintains a high intracellular potassium concentra- Intercalated Cells Can Secrete or Reabsorb Hydrogen, tion; and (2) once in the cell, potassium diffuses down its concentration gradient across the luminal membrane into Bicarbonate, and Potassium Ions. Intercalated cells play the tubular fluid. a major role in acid–base regulation and constitute 30% to The principal cells are the primary sites of action of the 40% of the cells in the collecting tubules and collecting potassium- sparing diuretics, including spironolactone, ducts. There are two types of intercalated cells, type A and eplerenone, amiloride, and triamterene. Spironolactone type B (Figure 28-1 3). Type A intercalated cells secrete and eplerenone are mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists hydrogen ions by a hydrogen-A TPase transporter and by that compete with aldosterone for receptor sites in the a hydrogen- potassium- ATPase transporter. Hydrogen is principal cells and therefore inhibit the stimulatory effects generated in this cell by the action of carbonic anhydrase of aldosterone on sodium reabsorption and potassium on water and carbon dioxide to form carbonic acid, which secretion. Amiloride and triamterene are sodium channel then dissociates into hydrogen ions and bicarbonate ions. blockers that directly inhibit the entry of sodium into the The hydrogen ions are then secreted into the tubular lu- sodium channels of the luminal membranes and there- men and, for each hydrogen ion secreted, a bicarbonate fore reduce the amount of sodium that can be transported ion becomes available for reabsorption across the baso- across the basolateral membranes by the Na+-
