Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


intercalated cell on CCll–– KK++ the basolateral side of the cell membrane by hydrogen- ATPase, and bicarbonate is secreted into the lumen, thus eliminating excess plasma bicarbonate in alkalosis. Induc- Figure 28- 13 Type A and type B intercalated cells of the collect- tion of chronic metabolic alkalosis increases the number ing tubule. Type A cells contain hydrogen- ATPase and hydrogen- of type B intercalated cells, which contribute to increased potassium- ATPase in the luminal membrane and secrete hydrogen excretion of bicarbonate, whereas acidosis increases the ions while reabsorbing bicarbonate and potassium ions in acidosis. In type B cells, the hydrogen- ATPase and hydrogen- potassium- ATPase number of type A cells. transporters are located in the basolateral membrane and reabsorb A more detailed discussion of this mechanism is pre- hydrogen ions while secreting bicarbonate and potassium ions in al- sented in Chapter 31. The intercalated cells can also reab- kalosis. The chloride- bicarbonate counter- transporter on the apical sorb or secrete potassium ions, as shown in Figure 28-1 3. membrane of type B cells is called pendrin and is different than the The functional characteristics of the late distal tubule chloride- bicarbonate transporter of type A intercalated cells. and cortical collecting tubule can be summarized as follows: into the tubular lumen, a process that is also con- 1. The tubular membranes of both segments are al- trolled by aldosterone and other factors, such as the most completely impermeable to urea, similar to concentration of potassium ions in the body fluids. the diluting segment of the early distal tubule. Thus, 3. The type A intercalated cells of these nephron seg- almost all the urea that enters these segments pass- ments can avidly secrete hydrogen ions by an active es on through and into the collecting duct to be ex- hydrogen- ATPase mechanism in acidosis. This pro- creted in the urine, although some reabsorption of cess is different from the secondary active secretion urea occurs in the medullary collecting ducts. of hydrogen ions by the proximal tubule because it 2. Both the late distal tubule and cortical collecting tu- is capable of secreting hydrogen ions against a large bule segments reabsorb sodium ions, and the rate of concentration gradient, as much as 1000 to 1. This reabsorption is controlled by hormones, especially al- is in contrast to the relatively small gradient (4- to dosterone. At the same time, these segments secrete 10-
