Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1000 to 1. This reabsorption is controlled by hormones, especially al- is in contrast to the relatively small gradient (4- to dosterone. At the same time, these segments secrete 10- fold) for hydrogen ions that can be achieved by potassium ions from the peritubular capillary blood secondary active secretion in the proximal tubule. 353 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys coM llee cd tiu nl gla dry uct N a+, ( +C Al– DH) H 2O 10 500. .0 0 PPAAHH ttoo 558855 ttoo 1144 oo00 112255 Urea 20.0 tt 10.0 H+ 5.0 CCrree aattiinniinn ee HCO 3– 2.0 UUrreeII aann uulliinn KKCCll 1.0 aanndd NNaa KK CCll Figure 28- 14 Cellular ultrastructure and transport characteristics of 0.50 NNaa the medullary collecting duct. The medullary collecting ducts actively GG reabsorb sodium and secrete hydrogen ions and are permeable to 0.20 lluu cc oo urea, which is reabsorbed in these tubular segments. The reabsorp- ss ee tion of water in medullary collecting ducts is controlled by the con- 0.10 AA HHCCOO centration of antidiuretic hormone. mm PP 33 0.05 iinn rroo In alkalosis, the type B intercalated cells secrete oo aa cc ttee iinn 0.02 iidd bicarbonate and actively reabsorb hydrogen ions. ss Thus, the intercalated cells play a key role in acid– Proximal Loop of Distal Collecting base regulation of the body fluids. tubule Henle tubule tubule 4. The permeability of the late distal tubule and cortical Figure 28- 15 Changes in average concentrations of different sub- collecting duct to water is controlled by the concen- stances at different points in the tubular system relative to the con- centration of that substance in the plasma and glomerular filtrate. A tration of ADH, which is also called vasopressin. With value of 1.0 indicates that the concentration of the substance in the high levels of ADH, these tubular segments are per- tubular fluid is the same as the concentration of that substance in the meable to water but, in the absence of ADH, they are plasma. Values below 1.0 indicate that the substance is reabsorbed virtually impermeable to water. This special character- more avidly than water, whereas values above 1.0 indicate that the istic provides an important mechanism for controlling substance is reabsorbed to a lesser extent than water or is secreted into the tubules. PAH, Para- aminohippuric acid. the degree of dilution or concentration of the urine. MEDULLARY
