Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


controlling substance is reabsorbed to a lesser extent than water or is secreted into the tubules. PAH, Para- aminohippuric acid. the degree of dilution or concentration of the urine. MEDULLARY COLLECTING DUCTS gradient, as also occurs in the cortical collecting tu- bule. Thus, the medullary collecting duct also plays Although the medullary collecting ducts usually reabsorb a key role in regulating acid- base balance. less than 5% of the filtered water and sodium, they are the final site for processing the urine and, therefore, play a SUMMARY OF CONCENTRATIONS OF critical role in determining the final urine output of water DIFFERENT SOLUTES IN DIFFERENT and solutes. TUBULAR SEGMENTS The epithelial cells of the collecting ducts are nearly cuboidal in shape, with smooth surfaces and relatively Whether a solute will become concentrated in the tubular few mitochondria (Figure 28-1 4). Special characteristics fluid is determined by the relative degree of reabsorption of this tubular segment are as follows: of that solute versus the reabsorption of water. If a greater 1. The permeability of the medullary collecting duct to percentage of water is reabsorbed, the substance becomes water is controlled by the level of ADH. With high lev- more concentrated. If a greater percentage of the solute is els of ADH, water is avidly reabsorbed into the medul- reabsorbed, the substance becomes more diluted. lary interstitium, thereby reducing the urine volume Figure 28-1 5 shows the degree of concentration of and concentrating most of the solutes in the urine. several substances in different tubular segments. All the 2. Unlike the cortical collecting tubule, the medullary values in this figure represent the tubular fluid concentra- collecting duct is permeable to urea, and there are tion divided by the plasma concentration of a substance. special urea transporters that facilitate urea diffu- If plasma concentration of the substance is assumed to sion across the luminal and basolateral membranes. be constant, any change in the tubular fluid/plasma Therefore, some of the tubular urea is reabsorbed concentration ratio reflects changes in tubular fluid into the medullary interstitium, helping raise the concentration. osmolality in this region of the kidneys and contrib- As the filtrate moves along the tubular system, the con- uting to the kidneys’ overall ability to form concen- centration rises progressively to higher than 1.0 if more trated urine. This topic is discussed in Chapter 29. water is reabsorbed than solute, or if there has been
