Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


form concen- centration rises progressively to higher than 1.0 if more trated urine. This topic is discussed in Chapter 29. water is reabsorbed than solute, or if there has been a net 3. The medullary collecting duct is capable of secret- secretion of the solute into the tubular fluid. If the con- ing hydrogen ions against a large concentration centration ratio becomes progressively less than 1.0, this 354 noitartnecnoc etartlif raluremolg/diulf ralubuT Chapter 28 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion means that relatively more solute has been reabsorbed rate of proximal tubular reabsorption also increases from than water. about 81 ml/min (65% of GFR) to about 97.5 ml/min (65% The substances represented at the top of Figure 28- 15, of GFR). Thus, glomerulotubular balance refers to the fact such as creatinine, become highly concentrated in the urine. that the total rate of reabsorption increases as the filtered In general, these substances are not needed by the body, load increases, even though the percentage of GFR reab- and the kidneys have become adapted to reabsorb them sorbed in the proximal tubule remains relatively constant, only slightly or not at all or even to secrete them into the at about 65%. tubules, thereby excreting large quantities into the urine. Some degree of glomerulotubular balance also occurs Conversely, the substances represented at the bottom of in other tubular segments, especially the loop of Henle. the figure, such as glucose and amino acids, are all strongly The precise mechanisms responsible for this are not fully reabsorbed. These are all substances that the body needs understood but may be due partly to changes in physical to conserve, and almost none of them are lost in the urine. forces in the tubule and surrounding renal interstitium, as discussed later. It is clear that the mechanisms for glomer- Tubular Fluid/Plasma Inulin Concentration Ratio Can ulotubular balance can occur independently of hormones Be Used to Assess Water Reabsorption by Renal and can be demonstrated in completely isolated kidneys Tubules. Inulin, a polysaccharide used to measure the or even in completely isolated proximal tubular segments. GFR, is not reabsorbed or secreted by the renal tubules. Glomerulotubular balance helps prevent overload- Changes in inulin concentration at different points along ing of the distal tubular segments when GFR increases. the renal tubule, therefore, reflect changes in the amount Glomerulotubular balance acts as another line of defense of water present in the tubular
