Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the distal tubular segments when GFR increases. the renal tubule, therefore, reflect changes in the amount Glomerulotubular balance acts as another line of defense of water present in the tubular fluid. to buffer the effects of spontaneous changes in the GFR For example, the tubular fluid/plasma concentration on urine output. (The other line of defense, discussed ratio for inulin rises to about 3.0 at the end of the proxi- earlier, includes the renal autoregulatory mechanisms, mal tubules, indicating that inulin concentration in the especially tubuloglomerular feedback, which help prevent tubular fluid is three times greater than in the plasma large changes in GFR.) Working together, the autoregula- and glomerular filtrate. Because inulin is not secreted or tory and glomerulotubular balance mechanisms prevent reabsorbed from the tubules, a tubular fluid/plasma con- large changes in fluid flow in the distal tubules when the centration ratio of 3.0 means that only one-third of the arterial pressure changes or when there are other distur- water that was filtered remains in the renal tubule and bances that would otherwise upset sodium and volume that two-thirds of the filtered water has been reabsorbed homeostasis. as the fluid passes through the proximal tubule. At the end of the collecting ducts, the tubular fluid/plasma inulin PERITUBULAR CAPILLARY AND RENAL concentration ratio rises to about 125 (see Figure 28-1 5), INTERSTITIAL FLUID PHYSICAL FORCES indicating that only 1/125 of the filtered water remains in the tubule and that more than 99% has been reabsorbed. Hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces govern the rate of reabsorption across the peritubular capillaries, just as they control filtration in the glomerular capillaries. Changes in REGULATION OF TUBULAR peritubular capillary reabsorption can in turn influence REABSORPTION the hydrostatic and colloid osmotic pressures of the renal Because it is essential to maintain a precise balance interstitium and, ultimately, reabsorption of water and between tubular reabsorption and glomerular filtration, solutes from the renal tubules. there are multiple nervous, hormonal, and local control Normal Values for Physical Forces and Reabsorption mechanisms that regulate tubular reabsorption, just as Rate. As the glomerular filtrate passes through the renal there are for control of glomerular filtration. An impor- tubules, more than 99% of the water and most of the sol- tant feature of tubular reabsorption is that reabsorption utes are normally reabsorbed. Fluid and electrolytes are re- of some solutes can be regulated independently of others, absorbed from the tubules into
