Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


feature of tubular reabsorption is that reabsorption utes are normally reabsorbed. Fluid and electrolytes are re- of some solutes can be regulated independently of others, absorbed from the tubules into the renal interstitium and especially through hormonal control mechanisms. from there into the peritubular capillaries. The normal rate GLOMERULOTUBULAR BALANCE— of peritubular capillary reabsorption is about 124 ml/min. REABSORPTION RATE INCREASES IN Reabsorption across the peritubular capillaries can be RESPONSE TO INCREASED TUBULAR calculated as follows: LOAD Reabsorption = K × Netreabsorptiveforce f One of the most basic mechanisms for controlling tubu- The net reabsorptive force represents the sum of lar reabsorption is the intrinsic ability of the tubules to the hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces that favor or increase their reabsorption rate in response to increased oppose reabsorption across the peritubular capillar- tubular load (increased tubular inflow). This phenomenon ies. These forces include the following: (1) hydrostatic is referred to as glomerulotubular balance. For example, if pressure inside the peritubular capillaries (peritubular the GFR increases from 125 to 150 ml/min, the absolute hydrostatic pressure [P ]), which opposes reabsorption; c 355 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys PPeerriittuubbuullaarr IInntteerrssttiittiiaall TTuubbuullaarr TTuubbuullaarr that are directly influenced by renal hemodynamic chang- ccaappiillllaarryy fflluuiidd cceellllss lluummeenn es are the hydrostatic and colloid osmotic pressures of the peritubular capillaries. The peritubular capillary hydro- PPiiff static pressure is influenced by the arterial pressure and 66 mmmm HHgg PP cc resistances of the afferent and efferent arterioles as follows: 1133 mmmm HHgg ππiiff 1. Increases in arterial pressure tend to raise peritubu- 1155 mmmm HHgg ππ cc lar capillary hydrostatic pressure and decrease the 3322 mmmm HHgg BBuullkk reabsorption rate. This effect is buffered to some ffllooww H 2O H 2O extent by autoregulatory mechanisms that main- NNaa++ NNaa++ tain relatively constant renal blood flow, as well as 1100 mmmm HHgg ATP NNeett rreeaabbssoorrppttiioonn relatively constant hydrostatic pressures in the renal pprreessssuurree blood vessels. 2. An increase in resistance of the afferent or efferent Figure 28- 16 Summary of the hydrostatic and colloid osmotic forces arterioles reduces peritubular capillary hydrostatic that determine fluid reabsorption by the peritubular capillaries. The pressure and tends to increase reabsorption rate. numerical values shown are estimates of the normal values for hu- Although constriction of the efferent arterioles in- mans. The net reabsorptive pressure is normally about 10 mm Hg, creases glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure, it causing
