Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the normal values for hu- Although constriction of the efferent arterioles in- mans. The net reabsorptive pressure is normally about 10 mm Hg, creases glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure, it causing fluid and solutes to be reabsorbed into the peritubular cap- illaries as they are transported across the renal tubular cells. ATP, lowers peritubular capillary hydrostatic pressure. Adenosine triphosphate; P c, peritubular capillary hydrostatic pressure; The second major determinant of peritubular capillary P if, interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure; πc, peritubular capillary col- reabsorption is the colloid osmotic pressure of the plasma loid osmotic pressure; πif, interstitial fluid colloid osmotic pressure. in these capillaries; raising the colloid osmotic pressure increases peritubular capillary reabsorption. The colloid (2) hydrostatic pressure in the renal interstitium (P ) out- osmotic pressure of peritubular capillaries is determined if side the capillaries, which favors reabsorption; (3) col- by the following: (1) the systemic plasma colloid osmotic loid osmotic pressure of the peritubular capillary plasma pressure (increasing the plasma protein concentration of proteins (π ), which favors reabsorption; and (4) colloid systemic blood tends to raise peritubular capillary colloid c osmotic pressure of the proteins in the renal interstitium osmotic pressure, thereby increasing reabsorption); and (π ), which opposes reabsorption. (2) the filtration fraction—the higher the filtration frac- if Figure 28- 16 shows the approximate normal forces that tion, the greater the fraction of plasma filtered through the favor and oppose peritubular reabsorption. Because the glomerulus and, consequently, the more concentrated the normal peritubular capillary pressure averages about 13 protein becomes in the plasma that remains behind. Thus, mm Hg and the renal interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure increasing the filtration fraction also tends to increase the averages 6 mm Hg, there is a positive hydrostatic pressure peritubular capillary reabsorption rate. Because filtration gradient from the peritubular capillary to the interstitial fraction is defined as the ratio of GFR/RPF, an increased fluid of about 7 mm Hg, which opposes fluid reabsorption. filtration fraction can occur as a result of increased GFR This opposition to fluid reabsorption is more than coun- or decreased RPF. Some renal vasoconstrictors, such as terbalanced by the colloid osmotic pressures that favor angiotensin II, increase peritubular capillary reabsorption reabsorption. The plasma colloid osmotic pressure, which by decreasing RPF and increasing filtration fraction, as favors reabsorption, is about 32 mm Hg, and the colloid discussed later. osmotic pressure of the interstitium, which opposes reab- Changes in the
