Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


decreasing RPF and increasing filtration fraction, as favors reabsorption, is about 32 mm Hg, and the colloid discussed later. osmotic pressure of the interstitium, which opposes reab- Changes in the peritubular capillary K can also influ- f sorption, is 15 mm Hg, causing a net colloid osmotic force ence the reabsorption rate because K is a measure of the f of about 17 mm Hg, favoring reabsorption. Therefore, sub- permeability and surface area of the capillaries. Increases tracting the net hydrostatic forces that oppose reabsorption in K raise reabsorption, whereas decreases in K lower f f (7 mm Hg) from the net colloid osmotic forces that favor peritubular capillary reabsorption. K remains relatively f reabsorption (17 mm Hg) gives a net reabsorptive force of constant in most physiological conditions. Table 28-2 about 10 mm Hg. This value is high, similar to that found summarizes the factors that can influence the peritubular in the glomerular capillaries, but in the opposite direction. capillary reabsorption rate. The other factor that contributes to the high rate of Renal Interstitial Hydrostatic and Colloid Osmotic fluid reabsorption in the peritubular capillaries is a large Pressures. Ultimately, changes in peritubular capillary filtration coefficient (K) because of the high hydrau- f physical forces influence tubular reabsorption by changing lic conductivity and large surface area of the capillaries. the physical forces in the renal interstitium surrounding Because the reabsorption rate is normally about 124 ml/ the tubules. For example, a decrease in the reabsorptive min and net reabsorption pressure is 10 mm Hg, K nor- f force across the peritubular capillary membranes, caused mally is about 12.4 ml/min per mm Hg. by increased peritubular capillary hydrostatic pressure Regulation of Peritubular Capillary Physical Forces. or decreased peritubular capillary colloid osmotic pres- The two determinants of peritubular capillary r eabsorption sure, reduces the uptake of fluid and solutes from the 356 Chapter 28 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion Table 28- 2 Factors That Can Influence Peritubular NNoorrmmaall Capillary Reabsorption PPeerriittuubbuullaarr IInntteerrssttiittiiaall TTuubbuullaarr LLuummeenn ccaappiillllaarryy fflluuiidd cceellllss ↑ P c → ↓ Reabsorption • ↓ R A → ↑ P c • ↓ R E → ↑ P c PP cc • ↑ Arterial pressure → ↑ P c ππ ↑ πc → ↑ Reabsorption cc • ↑ πA → ↑ πc • ↑ FF → ↑ πc ↑ K f → ↑ Reabsorption NNeett ATP FF, Filtration fraction; K, peritubular capillary
