Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


→ ↑ Reabsorption cc • ↑ πA → ↑ πc • ↑ FF → ↑ πc ↑ K f → ↑ Reabsorption NNeett ATP FF, Filtration fraction; K, peritubular capillary filtration coefficient; rreeaabbssoorrppttiioonn f P c, peritubular capillary hydrostatic pressure; πA, arterial plasma colloid osmotic pressure; πc, peritubular capillary colloid osmotic ATP pressure; R and R, afferent and efferent arteriolar resistances, A E BBaacckklleeaakk respectively. interstitium into the peritubular capillaries. This action in DDeeccrreeaasseedd rreeaabbssoorrppttiioonn turn raises renal interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure and decreases interstitial fluid colloid osmotic pressure be- cause of dilution of the proteins in the renal interstitium. PP cc These changes then decrease the net reabsorption of fluid ππ cc from the renal tubules into the interstitium, especially in the proximal tubules. ATP The mechanisms whereby changes in interstitial fluid DDeeccrreeaasseedd nneett hydrostatic and colloid osmotic pressures influence tubu- rreeaabbssoorrppttiioonn lar reabsorption can be understood by examining the pathways through which solute and water are reabsorbed ATP IInnccrreeaasseedd (Figure 28-1 7). Once the solutes enter the intercellular bbaacckklleeaakk channels or renal interstitium by active transport or pas- sive diffusion, water is drawn from the tubular lumen Figure 28- 17 Proximal tubular and peritubular capillary reabsorption into the interstitium by osmosis. Furthermore, once the under normal conditions (top) and during decreased peritubular cap- water and solutes are in the interstitial spaces, they can be illary reabsorption (bottom) caused by increasing peritubular capillary swept up into the peritubular capillaries or diffuse back hydrostatic pressure (P) or decreasing peritubular capillary colloid c through the epithelial junctions into the tubular lumen. osmotic pressure (πc). Reduced peritubular capillary reabsorption, in turn, decreases the net reabsorption of solutes and water by increas- The so- called tight junctions between the epithelial cells ing the amounts of solutes and water that leak back into the tubular of the proximal tubule are actually leaky, so considerable lumen through the tight junctions of the tubular epithelial cells, espe- amounts of sodium can diffuse in both directions through cially in the proximal tubule. these junctions. With the normal high rate of peritubular capillary reabsorption, the net movement of water and matched to the net reabsorption of water and solutes solutes is into the peritubular capillaries, with little back- from the tubular lumen into the interstitium. In general, leak into the lumen of the tubule. However, when peritu- forces that increase peritubular capillary reabsorption bular capillary reabsorption is reduced,
