Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from the tubular lumen into the interstitium. In general, leak into the lumen of the tubule. However, when peritu- forces that increase peritubular capillary reabsorption bular capillary reabsorption is reduced, there is increased also increase reabsorption from the renal tubules. Con- interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure and a tendency for versely, hemodynamic changes that inhibit peritubular greater amounts of solute and water to leak back into the capillary reabsorption also inhibit tubular reabsorption of tubular lumen, thereby reducing the rate of net reabsorp- water and solutes. tion (see Figure 28-1 7). The opposite is true when peritubular capillary reab- EFFECT OF ARTERIAL PRESSURE ON URINE sorption increases above the normal level. An initial OUTPUT—PRESSURE NATRIURESIS AND increase in reabsorption by the peritubular capillar- PRESSURE DIURESIS ies tends to reduce interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure and raise interstitial fluid colloid osmotic pressure. Both Even small increases in arterial pressure can cause marked these forces favor movement of fluid and solutes out of increases in urinary excretion of sodium and water, phe- the tubular lumen and into the interstitium; therefore, nomena referred to as pressure natriuresis and pressure backleak of water and solutes into the tubular lumen is diuresis. Because of the autoregulatory mechanisms reduced, and net tubular reabsorption is increased. described in Chapter 27, increasing the arterial pressure Thus, through changes in the hydrostatic and colloid between the limits of 75 and 160 mm Hg usually has only osmotic pressures of the renal interstitium, the uptake of a small effect on renal blood flow and GFR. The slight water and solutes by the peritubular capillaries is closely increase in GFR that does occur contributes in part to 357 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys the effect of increased arterial pressure on urine output. electrolytes. Likewise, when sodium intake is changed, When GFR autoregulation is impaired, as often occurs in the kidneys must adjust urinary sodium excretion appro- kidney disease, increases in arterial pressure can cause priately without major changes in excretion of other much larger increases in the GFR. electrolytes. Several hormones in the body provide this A second effect of increased renal arterial pressure that specificity of tubular reabsorption for different electro- raises urine output is that it decreases the percentages of lytes and water. Table 28-3 summarizes some of the most the filtered loads of sodium and water that are reabsorbed important hormones for regulating tubular reabsorption, by
