Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the percentages of lytes and water. Table 28-3 summarizes some of the most the filtered loads of sodium and water that are reabsorbed important hormones for regulating tubular reabsorption, by the tubules. Although the mechanisms responsible for their principal sites of action on the renal tubule, and their this effect are not fully understood, they include a cascade effects on solute and water excretion. Some of these hor- of physical factors, as well as paracrine and hormonal mones are discussed in more detail in Chapters 29 and effects. Increased arterial pressure causes a slight increase 30, but here we briefly review their renal tubular actions. in peritubular capillary hydrostatic pressure, especially Aldosterone Stimulates Renal Sodium Reabsorption in the vasa recta of the renal medulla, and a subsequent and Potassium Secretion. Aldosterone, secreted by the increase in the renal interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure. zona glomerulosa cells of the adrenal cortex, is an im- As discussed earlier, an increase in the renal interstitial portant regulator of sodium reabsorption and secretion fluid hydrostatic pressure enhances backleak of sodium of potassium and hydrogen ions by the renal tubules. A into the tubular lumen, thereby reducing the net reab- major renal tubular site of aldosterone action is on the sorption of sodium and water and further increasing the principal cells of the cortical collecting tubule. The mecha- rate of urine output when renal arterial pressure rises. nism whereby aldosterone increases sodium reabsorption A third factor that contributes to pressure natriuresis and potassium secretion is by stimulating the Na+- K+ and pressure diuresis is reduced angiotensin II formation. ATPase pump on the basolateral side of the cortical col- Angiotensin II itself increases sodium reabsorption by the lecting tubule membrane. Aldosterone also increases the tubules and stimulates aldosterone secretion, which fur- sodium permeability of the luminal side of the membrane ther increases sodium reabsorption. Therefore, decreased by the insertion of epithelial sodium channels. The cel- angiotensin II formation contributes to the decreased lular mechanisms of aldosterone action are discussed in tubular sodium reabsorption that occurs when arterial Chapter 78. pressure is increased. The most important stimuli for aldosterone are the fol- A fourth factor that may contribute to pressure natri- lowing: (1) increased extracellular potassium concentra- uresis is internalization of sodium transporter proteins tion; and (2) increased angiotensin II levels, which typically from the apical membranes to the cytoplasm of the renal occur in conditions associated with
