Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is internalization of sodium transporter proteins tion; and (2) increased angiotensin II levels, which typically from the apical membranes to the cytoplasm of the renal occur in conditions associated with sodium and volume tubules, thereby reducing the amount of sodium that can depletion or low blood pressure. Increased secretion of be transported across the cell membranes. This effect of aldosterone associated with these conditions causes renal increased arterial pressure may be mediated, in part, by sodium and water retention, helping restore extracellular decreased angiotensin II formation and other autacoid or fluid volume and blood pressure toward normal. paracrine signals. When there is a deficit of aldosterone, as occurs with HORMONAL CONTROL OF TUBULAR adrenal destruction or malfunction (Addison disease), REABSORPTION there is marked sodium loss from the body and accumu- lation of potassium. Conversely, excess aldosterone secre- Precise regulation of body fluid volumes and solute con- tion, as occurs in patients with adrenal tumors (Conn centrations requires the kidneys to excrete different sol- syndrome), is associated with sodium retention and utes and water at variable rates, sometimes independently decreased plasma potassium concentration due, in part, of one another. For example, when potassium intake is to excessive potassium secretion by the kidneys. Although increased, the kidneys must excrete more potassium daily regulation of sodium balance can be maintained as while maintaining normal excretion of sodium and other long as minimal levels of aldosterone are present, the Table 28- 3 Hormones That Regulate Tubular Reabsorption Hormone Site of Action Effects Aldosterone Collecting tubule and duct ↑NaCl, H 2O reabsorption; ↑K+ secretion; ↑H+ secretion Angiotensin II Proximal tubule, thick ascending loop of ↑NaCl, H 2O reabsorption; ↑H+ secretion Henle, distal tubule, collecting tubule Antidiuretic hormone Distal tubule/collecting tubule and duct ↑H 2O reabsorption Atrial natriuretic peptide Distal tubule/collecting tubule and duct ↓NaCl reabsorption Parathyroid hormone Proximal tubule, thick ascending loop of ↓PO 4− reabsorption; ↑Ca2+ reabsorption Henle, distal tubule 358 Chapter 28 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion inability to adjust aldosterone secretion appropriately creatinine that depend mainly on an adequate GFR for greatly impairs the regulation of renal potassium excre- their excretion. Thus, increased formation of angiotensin tion and potassium concentration of the body fluids. II permits the kidneys to retain sodium and water without Thus, aldosterone is even more important as a regulator causing retention of metabolic waste products. of potassium concentration than for sodium concentra- Antidiuretic Hormone Increases Water Reabsorption. tion,
