Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


water without Thus, aldosterone is even more important as a regulator causing retention of metabolic waste products. of potassium concentration than for sodium concentra- Antidiuretic Hormone Increases Water Reabsorption. tion, as discussed in Chapter 30. The most important renal action of ADH is to increase the Angiotensin II Increases Sodium and Water Reab- water permeability of the distal tubule, collecting tubule, sorption. Angiotensin II is perhaps the body’s most pow- and collecting duct epithelia. This effect helps the body erful sodium- retaining hormone. As discussed in Chapter conserve water in circumstances such as dehydration. In 19, angiotensin II formation increases in circumstances the absence of ADH, the permeability of the distal tubules associated with low blood pressure and/or low extracel- and collecting ducts to water is low, causing the kidneys lular fluid volume, such as during hemorrhage or loss of to excrete large amounts of dilute urine, a condition called salt and water from the body fluids by excessive sweating diabetes insipidus. Thus, the actions of ADH play a key or severe diarrhea. Increased formation of angiotensin role in controlling the degree of dilution or concentration II helps return blood pressure and extracellular volume of the urine, as discussed further in Chapters 29 and 76. toward normal by increasing sodium and water reabsorp- ADH binds to specific V receptors in the late distal 2 tion from the renal tubules through three main effects: tubules, collecting tubules, and collecting ducts, increas- 1. Angiotensin II stimulates aldosterone secretion, ing the formation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate which in turn increases sodium reabsorption. and activating protein kinases (Figure 28- 19). This action, 2. Angiotensin II constricts the efferent arterioles, which in turn, stimulates movement of an intracellular protein, has two effects on peritubular capillary dynamics called aquaporin- 2 (AQP- 2), to the luminal side of the cell that increase sodium and water reabsorption. First, membranes. The molecules of AQP- 2 cluster together and efferent arteriolar constriction reduces peritubular fuse with the cell membrane by exocytosis to form water capillary hydrostatic pressure, which increases net channels that permit rapid diffusion of water through the tubular reabsorption, especially from the proximal cells. There are other aquaporins, AQP- 3 and AQP- 4, in tubules. Second, efferent arteriolar constriction, by the basolateral side of the cell membrane that provide a reducing renal blood flow, raises filtration fraction path for water to exit the cells rapidly, although these aqua-
