Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


constriction, by the basolateral side of the cell membrane that provide a reducing renal blood flow, raises filtration fraction path for water to exit the cells rapidly, although these aqua- in the glomerulus and increases the concentration of porins are not regulated by ADH. Chronic increases in proteins and colloid osmotic pressure in the peritu- ADH levels also increase the formation of AQP- 2 protein bular capillaries. This mechanism also increases the in the renal tubular cells by stimulating AQP-2 gene tran- reabsorptive force at the peritubular capillaries and scription. When the concentration of ADH decreases, the raises tubular reabsorption of sodium and water. molecules of AQP- 2 are shuttled back to the cell cytoplasm, 3. Angiotensin II directly stimulates sodium reabsorp- thereby removing the water channels from the luminal tion in the proximal tubules, the loops of Henle, the membrane and reducing water permeability. These actions distal tubules, and the collecting tubules. One of of ADH are discussed further in Chapters 29 and 76. the direct effects of angiotensin II is to stimulate the Na+- K+ ATPase pump on the tubular epithe- Renal Tubular lial cell basolateral membrane. A second effect is to interstitial Tubular lumen stimulate sodium- hydrogen exchange in the lumi- fluid cells nal membrane, especially in the proximal tubule. A third effect of angiotensin II is to stimulate sodium- bicarbonate co- transport in the basolateral mem- NNaa++ NNaa++ + + ATP NHE brane (Figure 28-1 8). KK++ HH++ Thus, angiotensin II stimulates sodium transport across both the luminal and basolateral surfaces of the Ang II AT AT Ang II 1 1 epithelial cell membrane in most renal tubular segments. These multiple actions of angiotensin II cause marked NNaa++ + sodium and water retention by the kidneys when angio- HHCCOO –– 33 tensin II levels are increased and play a critical role in per- mitting the body to adapt to wide variations in sodium intake without large changes in extracellular fluid volume Figure 28- 18 Direct effects of angiotensin II (Ang II) to increase prox- imal tubular sodium reabsorption. Ang II stimulates sodium-h ydrogen and blood pressure, as discussed in Chapter 30. exchange (NHE) on the luminal membrane and Na+- K+ ATPase trans- At the same time that angiotensin II increases renal porter as well as sodium- bicarbonate co-t ransport on the basolateral tubular sodium reabsorption, its vasoconstrictor effect on membrane. These same effects of Ang II
