Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that angiotensin II increases renal porter as well as sodium- bicarbonate co-t ransport on the basolateral tubular sodium reabsorption, its vasoconstrictor effect on membrane. These same effects of Ang II likely occur in several other efferent arterioles also aids in the maintenance of normal parts of the renal tubule, including the loop of Henle, distal tubule, excretion of metabolic waste products such as urea and and collecting tubule. AT 1, Angiotensin II type I receptor. 359 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Renal Tubular SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM Tubular interstitial lumen ACTIVATION INCREASES SODIUM cells fluid REABSORPTION Activation of the sympathetic nervous system, if severe, AQP-3 HH OO AQP-4 22 can decrease sodium and water excretion by constrict- AVP V2 ing the renal arterioles, thereby reducing the GFR. Even HH OO G 22 low levels of sympathetic activation, however, decrease s ccAAMMPP Protein sodium and water excretion by increasing sodium reab- Kinase AC A sorption in the proximal tubule, the thick ascending limb AATTPP of the loop of Henle, and perhaps in more distal parts of G AQP-2 s Protein the renal tubule. This occurs by activation of α- adrenergic AVP V2 Phosphorylation receptors on the renal tubular epithelial cells. Sympathetic nervous system stimulation also increases renin release and angiotensin II formation, which adds to the overall effect to increase tubular reabsorption and Aquaporin-2 (AQP-2) decrease renal excretion of sodium. USE OF CLEARANCE METHODS TO Figure 28- 19 Mechanism of action of arginine vasopressin (AVP) on QUANTIFY KIDNEY FUNCTION the epithelial cells of the late distal tubules, collecting tubules, and collecting ducts. AVP binds to its V receptors, which are c oupled 2 The rates at which different substances are cleared from with stimulatory G proteins (G) that activate adenylate cyclase (AC) s and stimulate formation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). the plasma provide a useful way of quantitating the effec- This, in turn, activates protein kinase A and phosphorylation of tiveness with which the kidneys excrete various sub- intracellular proteins, causing movement of aquaporin-2 (AQP- 2) to stances (Table 28-4 ). By definition, the renal clearance the luminal side of the cell membrane. The molecules of AQP- 2 fuse of a substance is the volume of plasma that is completely together to form water channels. On the basolateral side of the cell cleared of the substance by the kidneys per unit of time. membrane are other aquaporins,
