Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that is completely together to form water channels. On the basolateral side of the cell cleared of the substance by the kidneys per unit of time. membrane are other aquaporins, AQP- 3 and AQP- 4, that permit wa- ter to flow out of the cell, although these aquaporins do not appear Although there is no single volume of plasma that is to be regulated by AVP. completely cleared of a substance, renal clearance provides a useful way of quantifying excretory function of the kid- Atrial Natriuretic Peptide Decreases Sodium and Wa- neys. We can use renal clearance to quantify renal blood ter Reabsorption. When specific cells of the cardiac atria flow, GFR, tubular reabsorption, and tubular secretion. are stretched because of plasma volume expansion and To illustrate the clearance principle, consider the fol- increased atrial blood pressure, they secrete a peptide lowing example. If the plasma passing through the kidneys called atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). Increased levels contains 1 milligram of a substance in each milliliter, and of this peptide in turn directly inhibit reabsorption of if 1 milligram of this substance is also excreted into the sodium and water by the renal tubules, especially in the urine each minute, then 1 ml/min of the plasma is cleared collecting ducts. ANP also inhibits renin secretion and of the substance. Clearance refers to the volume of plasma therefore angiotensin II formation, which in turn reduces that would be necessary to supply the amount of substance renal tubular reabsorption. This decreased sodium and excreted in the urine per unit of time. Stated mathematically: water reabsorption increases urinary excretion, which C s×P s=U s×V helps return the blood volume back toward normal. where C is the clearance rate of a substance s, P is ANP levels are greatly elevated in congestive heart fail- s s the plasma concentration of the substance, U is the ure when the cardiac atria are stretched because of impaired s urine concentration of that substance, and V is the urine pumping of the ventricles. The increased ANP level helps flow rate. Rearranging this equation, clearance can be attenuate sodium and water retention in heart failure. expressed as: U s×V C = Parathyroid Hormone Increases Calcium Reabsorp- s P s tion. Parathyroid hormone is one of the most important Thus, renal clearance of a substance is calculated from calcium- regulating hormones in the body. Its principal the urinary excretion
