Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


by- product of muscle metabolism and is of the substance as follows: cleared from the body fluids almost entirely by glomer- GFR= U s×V =C ular filtration. Therefore, creatinine clearance can also 2 P S be used to assess GFR. Because measurement of cre- atinine clearance does not require intravenous infusion A substance that fits these criteria is inulin, a polysac- into the patient, this method is much more widely used charide molecule with a molecular weight of about 5200. than inulin clearance for estimating GFR clinically. How- Inulin, which is not produced in the body, is found in the ever, creatinine clearance is not a perfect marker of GFR roots of certain plants and must be administered intrave- because a small amount of it is secreted by the tubules, nously to a patient to measure GFR. so the amount of creatinine excreted slightly exceeds the Figure 28-2 0 shows the renal handling of inulin. In this amount filtered. There is normally a slight error in mea- example, the plasma concentration is 1 mg/ml, urine con- suring plasma creatinine that leads to an overestimation centration is 125 mg/ml, and urine flow rate is 1 ml/min. of the plasma creatinine concentration; fortuitously, these Therefore, 125 mg/min of inulin passes into the urine. two errors tend to cancel each other. Therefore, creatinine Then, inulin clearance is calculated as the urine excre- clearance provides a reasonable estimate of GFR. tion rate of inulin divided by the plasma concentration, In some cases, it may not be practical to collect urine which yields a value of 125 ml/min. Thus, 125 milliliters in a patient for measuring creatinine clearance (C ). of plasma flowing through the kidneys must be filtered to Cr An approximation of changes in GFR, however, can be deliver the inulin that appears in the urine. obtained by simply measuring the plasma creatinine con- Inulin is not the only substance that can be used for centration (P ), which is inversely proportional to the determining the GFR. Other substances that have been Cr GFR: u chs re od m c il uin mic a el tl hy y t lo en e es dt ii am mat ine et th ee tr aG aF cR et ii cn c alu cid de (i Eo Dth Ta Ala )m , ca yt se -, GFR≈C Cr= U Cr×V˙ P tatin C, and creatinine. Cr
