Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


aF cR et ii cn c alu cid de (i Eo Dth Ta Ala )m , ca yt se -, GFR≈C Cr= U Cr×V˙ P tatin C, and creatinine. Cr 361 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys P = 1 mg/ml 100 inulin 50 Amount filtered = Amount excreted . GFR × P inulin = U inulin × V 0 . U inulin × V GFR = P inulin 2 GFR = 125 ml/min 1 0 U = 125 mg/ml inulin . Positive balance Production V = 1 ml/min 2 Figure 28- 20 Measurement of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) from the renal clearance of inulin. Inulin is freely filtered by the glomerular capil- Excretion GFR × P laries but is not reabsorbed by the renal tubules. P , Plasma inulin Creatinine concentration; U , urine inulin concentration; V˙, uriin nu elin flow rate. 1 inulin 0 If GFR suddenly decreases by 50%, the kidneys will tran- 0 1 2 3 4 siently filter and excrete only half as much creatinine, caus- Days ing the accumulation of creatinine in the body fluids and Figure 28- 21 Effect of reducing glomerular filtration rate (GFR) by raising plasma concentration. The plasma concentration of 50% on the serum creatinine concentration and on creatinine excre- creatinine will continue to rise until the filtered load of cre- tion rate when the production rate of creatinine remains constant. atinine (P Cr × GFR) and creatinine excretion (U Cr × V) return P Creatinine, Plasma creatinine concentration. to normal, and a balance between creatinine production and creatinine excretion is re- established. This response will occur when the plasma creatinine level increases to approxi- mately twice normal, as shown in Figure 28-2 1. 14 If GFR falls to one-f ourth normal, plasma creatinine level would increase to about four times normal, and a decrease 12 of GFR to one-e ighth normal would raise plasma creatinine level to eight times normal. Thus, under steady- state con- 10 ditions, creatinine excretion rate equals the rate of creati- nine production, despite reductions in GFR. H owever, this 8 normal rate of creatinine excretion occurs at the expense of an elevated plasma creatinine concentration, as shown 6 in Figure 28- 22. PARA- AMINOHIPPURIC ACID CLEARANCE 4 CAN BE USED TO ESTIMATE RENAL PLASMA FLOW 2 Normal Theoretically, if a substance is completely cleared from the plasma, the clearance rate of
