Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


22. PARA- AMINOHIPPURIC ACID CLEARANCE 4 CAN BE USED TO ESTIMATE RENAL PLASMA FLOW 2 Normal Theoretically, if a substance is completely cleared from the plasma, the clearance rate of that substance is equal to the 25 50 75 100 125 150 total RPF. In other words, the amount of the substance Glomerular filtration rate delivered to the kidneys in the blood (RPF × P) would be s (ml/min) equal to the amount excreted in the urine (U × V˙ ). Thus, s Figure 28- 22 Approximate relationship between glomerular filtra- RPF could be calculated as follows: tion rate (GFR) and plasma creatinine concentration under steady- U s×V˙ state conditions. Decreasing GFR by 50% will increase plasma cre- RPF= =C s atinine level to twice normal if creatinine production by the body Ps remains constant. 362 noitartnecnoc eninitaerc amsalP )nim/lm( RFG eninitaerc mureS dna noitcudorp eninitaerC )lm 001/gm( )ld/gm( noitartnecnoc )yad/g( noitercxe laner Chapter 28 Renal Tubular Reabsorption and Secretion P PAH = 0.01 mg/ml The extraction ratio (E PAH) is calculated as the differ- ence between the renal arterial PAH (P ) and renal PAH venous PAH (V ) concentrations, divided by the renal PAH arterial PAH concentration: E = P PAH−V PAH PAH P PAH Renal plasma flow U PAH × V One can calculate the total blood flow through the = P PAH kidneys from the total RPF and hematocrit (the per- centage of red blood cells in the blood). If the hema- tocrit is 0.45 and the total RPF is 650 ml/min, the total blood flow through both kidneys is 650/(1 − 0.45), or Renal venous PAH = 1182 ml/min. 0.001 mg/ml FILTRATION FRACTION IS CALCULATED FROM GFR DIVIDED BY RPF U = 5.85 mg/ml PA.H V = 1 ml/min To calculate the filtration fraction, which is the fraction Figure 28- 23 Measurement of renal plasma flow from the renal of plasma that filters through the glomerular membrane, clearance of para- aminohippuric acid (PAH). PAH is freely filtered by one must first know the RPF (PAH clearance) and the the glomerular capillaries and is also secreted from the peritubular GFR (inulin clearance). If the RPF is 650 ml/min and the capillary blood into the tubular lumen. The amount of PAH in the GFR is 125 ml/min, the filtration fraction (FF) is calcu- plasma of the renal artery is about equal to the amount of PAH ex-
