Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The amount of PAH in the GFR is 125 ml/min, the filtration fraction (FF) is calcu- plasma of the renal artery is about equal to the amount of PAH ex- creted in the urine. Therefore, the renal plasma flow can be calculat- lated as follows: ed from the clearance of PAH. To be more accurate, one can correct for the percentage of PAH that is still in the blood when it leaves the FF = GFR/RPF = 125/650 = 0.19 kidneys. P , Arterial plasma PAH concentration; U , urine PAH PAH PAH concentration; V, urine flow rate. CALCULATION OF TUBULAR REABSORPTION OR SECRETION FROM RENAL CLEARANCES Because the GFR is only about 20% of the total plasma flow, a substance that is completely cleared from the If the rates of glomerular filtration and renal excretion plasma must be excreted by tubular secretion, as well as of a substance are known, one can calculate whether by glomerular filtration (Figure 28- 23). There is no known there is a net reabsorption or net secretion of that sub- substance that is completely cleared by the kidneys. One stance by the renal tubules. For example, if the rate substance, PAH, is about 90% cleared from the plasma. of excretion of the substance (U × V) is less than the s Therefore, clearance of PAH can be used to approximate filtered load of the substance (GFR × P), then some s RPF. To be more accurate, one can correct for the percent- of the substance must have been reabsorbed from age of PAH that is still in the blood when it leaves the kid- the renal tubules. Conversely, if the excretion rate of neys. The percentage of PAH removed from the blood is the substance is greater than its filtered load, then the known as the extraction ratio of PAH and averages about rate at which it appears in the urine represents the sum 90% in normal kidneys. In diseased kidneys, this extraction of the rate of glomerular filtration plus tubular ratio may be reduced because of the inability of damaged secretion. tubules to secrete PAH into the tubular fluid. The following example demonstrates the calculation The calculation of RPF can be demonstrated by the fol- of tubular reabsorption. Assume the following laboratory lowing example. Assume that the plasma concentration values for a patient were obtained: of PAH is 0.01 mg/ml, urine concentration is
