Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Krug SM: Tight junctions lar feedback, and salt homeostasis. J Am Soc Nephrol 19:2272, of the proximal tubule and their channel proteins. Pflugers Arch 2008. 469:877, 2018. Wang K, Kestenbaum B: Proximal tubular secretory clearance: a Gonzalez- Vicente A, Saez F, Monzon CM, Asirwatham J, Garvin JL: neglected partner of kidney function. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol Thick ascending limb sodium transport in the pathogenesis of hy- 13:1291, 2018. pertension. Physiol Rev 99:235, 2019. Wang T, Weinbaum S, Weinstein AM: Regulation of glomerulotubu- Hall JE, Brands MW: The renin- angiotensin- aldosterone system: renal lar balance: flow-a ctivated proximal tubule function. Pflugers Arch mechanisms and circulatory homeostasis. In: Seldin DW, Giebisch 469:643, 2017. G (eds): The Kidney—Physiology and Pathophysiology, 3rd ed. New Yamazaki O, Ishizawa K, Hirohama D, Fujita T, Shibata S: Electrolyte York: Raven Press, 2000. transport in the renal collecting duct and its regulation by the renin- Hall JE, do Carmo JM, da Silva AA, Wang Z, Hall ME: Obesity- induced angiotensin- aldosterone system. Clin Sci (Lond) 133:75, 2019. hypertension: interaction of neurohumoral and renal mechanisms. Circ Res 116:991, 2015. 364 CHAPTER 2 9 Urine Concentration and Dilution; Regulation of Extracellular Fluid Osmolarity and Sodium Concentration For the cells of the body to function properly, they must of concentrated urine without major changes in rates of be bathed in extracellular fluid with a relatively constant excretion of solutes such as sodium and potassium. This concentration of electrolytes. The total concentration of ability to regulate water excretion independently of solute solutes in the extracellular fluid—and therefore the osmo- excretion is necessary for survival, especially when fluid larity—must also be precisely regulated to prevent the intake is limited. cells from shrinking or swelling. The osmolarity is deter- mined by the amount of solute (mainly sodium chloride) ANTIDIURETIC HORMONE CONTROLS divided by the volume of the extracellular fluid. Thus, to URINE CONCENTRATION a large extent, extracellular fluid osmolarity and sodium chloride concentration are regulated by the amount of The body has a powerful feedback system for regulating extracellular water. The total body water is controlled plasma osmolarity and sodium concentration that oper- by (1) fluid intake, which is regulated by factors that ates by altering renal excretion of water independently of determine thirst; and (2) renal water excretion, which is solute excretion rate. A primary effector of this feedback controlled by multiple factors that influence glomerular is antidiuretic hormone (ADH), also called
