Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


thirst; and (2) renal water excretion, which is solute excretion rate. A primary effector of this feedback controlled by multiple factors that influence glomerular is antidiuretic hormone (ADH), also called vasopressin. filtration and tubular reabsorption. When osmolarity of the body fluids increases above In this chapter, we discuss the following: (1) mecha- normal (i.e., the solutes in the body fluids become too nisms that cause the kidneys to eliminate excess water by concentrated), the posterior pituitary gland secretes excreting a dilute urine; (2) mechanisms that cause the more ADH, which increases the permeability of the dis- kidneys to conserve water by excreting a concentrated tal tubules and collecting ducts to water, as discussed in urine; (3) renal feedback mechanisms that control the Chapter 28. This mechanism increases water reabsorp- extracellular fluid sodium concentration and osmolarity; tion and decreases urine volume but does not markedly and (4) thirst and salt appetite mechanisms that deter- alter the rate of renal excretion of the solutes. mine the intakes of water and salt, which also help con- When there is excess water in the body, and extracel- trol extracellular fluid volume, osmolarity, and sodium lular fluid osmolarity is reduced, secretion of ADH by the concentration. posterior pituitary decreases, thereby reducing the per- meability of the distal tubule and collecting ducts to water, KIDNEYS EXCRETE EXCESS WATER BY which causes increased amounts of more dilute urine to FORMING DILUTE URINE be excreted. Thus, the rate of ADH secretion determines, to a large extent, whether the kidney excretes dilute or Normal kidneys have a tremendous capability to vary concentrated urine. the relative proportions of solutes and water in the urine in response to various challenges. When there is excess RENAL MECHANISMS FOR EXCRETING water in the body, and body fluid osmolarity is reduced, DILUTE URINE the kidneys can excrete urine with an osmolarity as low as 50 mOsm/L, a concentration that is only about one-sixth When there is a large excess of water in the body, the the osmolarity of normal extracellular fluid. Conversely, kidney can excrete as much as 20 L/day of dilute urine, when there is a deficit of water in the body, and extra- with a concentration as low as 50 mOsm/L. The kidney cellular fluid osmolarity is high, the kidneys can excrete performs this impressive feat by continuing to reabsorb highly concentrated urine with an osmolarity of 1200 solutes without reabsorbing large
