Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


utes after the water had been ingested. However, the total loop of Henle into the early distal tubule, with the osmo- amount of solute excreted remained relatively constant larity decreasing progressively to about 100 mOsm/L by because the urine formed became dilute, and urine osmo- the time the fluid enters the early distal tubular segment. larity decreased from 600 to about 100 mOsm/L. Thus, after Thus, regardless of whether ADH is present or absent, fluid ingestion of excess water, the kidney rids the body of the leaving the early distal tubular segment is hypo- osmotic, excess water but does not excrete excess amounts of solutes. with an osmolarity of only about one-third the osmolarity When the glomerular filtrate is initially formed, of plasma. its osmolarity is about the same as that of plasma (300 mOsm/L). To excrete excess water, the filtrate is diluted Tubular Fluid in Distal and Collecting Tubules Is as it passes along the tubule by reabsorbing solutes to a Further Diluted in Absence of ADH. As the dilute fluid greater extent than water, as shown in Figure 29-2. This in the early distal tubule passes into the late distal convo- dilution, however, occurs only in certain segments of the luted tubule, cortical collecting duct, and medullary col- tubular system, as described in the following sections. lecting duct, there is additional reabsorption of sodium chloride. In the absence of ADH, this portion of the tu- Tubular Fluid Remains Isosmotic in Proximal Tu- bule is also impermeable to water, and the additional re- bules. As fluid flows through the proximal tubule, solutes absorption of solutes causes the tubular fluid to become and water are reabsorbed in equal proportions, so little even more dilute, decreasing its osmolarity to as low as 50 change in osmolarity occurs. Thus, the proximal tubule mOsm/L. The failure to reabsorb water and continued re- fluid remains isosmotic to the plasma, with an osmolar- absorption of solutes lead to a large volume of dilute urine. ity of about 300 mOsm/L. As fluid passes down the de- To summarize, the mechanism for forming dilute scending loop of Henle, water is reabsorbed by osmosis, urine is to continue reabsorbing solutes from the distal and the tubular fluid reaches equilibrium with the sur- segments of the tubular system while reducing water rounding interstitial fluid of the renal medulla, which is reabsorption. In healthy kidneys, fluid leaving the ascend- very
