Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


equilibrium with the sur- segments of the tubular system while reducing water rounding interstitial fluid of the renal medulla, which is reabsorption. In healthy kidneys, fluid leaving the ascend- very hypertonic—about two to four times the osmolarity ing loop of Henle and early distal tubule is always dilute, of the original glomerular filtrate. Therefore, the tubular regardless of the level of ADH. In the absence of ADH, the fluid becomes more concentrated as it flows into the in- urine is further diluted in the late distal tubule and collect- ner medulla. ing ducts, and a large volume of dilute urine is excreted. 366 etulos yranirU ytiralomsO noitercxe )L/msOm( etar wolf enirU )nim/msOm( )nim/lm( xetroC alludeM Chapter 29 Urine Concentration and Dilution KIDNEYS CONSERVE WATER BY maximum concentration of sodium chloride that can be excreted by the kidneys is about 600 mOsm/L. Thus, for EXCRETING CONCENTRATED URINE every liter of seawater ingested, 1.5 liters of urine volume The ability of the kidney to form concentrated urine is would be required to rid the body of 1200 milliosmoles of sodium chloride ingested in addition to 600 milliosmoles essential for survival of mammals that live on land, includ- of other solutes, such as urea. This would result in a net ing humans. Water is continuously lost from the body fluid loss of 0.5 liter for every liter of seawater, explain- through various routes, including the lungs by evapora- ing the rapid dehydration that occurs in shipwreck vic- tion into the expired air, the gastrointestinal tract by way tims who drink seawater. However, a shipwreck victim’s of the feces, the skin through evaporation and perspiration, pet Australian hopping mouse could drink seawater with and the kidneys through excretion of urine. Fluid intake is impunity. required to match this loss, but the ability of the kidneys to Urine Specific Gravity form a small volume of concentrated urine minimizes the fluid intake required to maintain homeostasis, a function Urine specific gravity is often used in clinical settings that is especially important when water is in short supply. to provide a rapid estimate of urine solute concentra- When there is a water deficit in the body, the kidneys tion. The more concentrated the urine, the higher the urine specific gravity. In most cases, urine specific grav- form concentrated urine by continuing to excrete solutes ity increases linearly with increasing urine osmolarity while increasing water reabsorption and decreasing
