Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


urine specific gravity. In most cases, urine specific grav- form concentrated urine by continuing to excrete solutes ity increases linearly with increasing urine osmolarity while increasing water reabsorption and decreasing the (Figure 29-3). Urine specific gravity, however, is a meas- urine volume. The human kidney can produce a maximal ure of the weight of solutes in a given volume of urine urine concentration of 1200 to 1400 mOsm/L, four to five and is therefore determined by the number and size of times the osmolarity of plasma. the solute molecules. In contrast, osmolarity is deter- Some desert animals, such as the Australian hop- mined only by the number of solute molecules in a given ping mouse, can concentrate urine to as high as 10,000 volume. mOsm/L. This ability allows the mouse to survive in the Urine specific gravity is generally expressed in grams desert without drinking water; sufficient water can be per milliliter (g/ml) and, in humans, normally ranges obtained through the ingested food and water produced from 1.002 to 1.028 g/ml, rising by 0.001 for every 35- to in the body by metabolism of the food. Animals adapted 40- mOsm/L increase in urine osmolarity. This relation- ship between specific gravity and osmolarity is altered to freshwater environments usually have minimal urine- when there are significant amounts of large molecules in concentrating ability. Beavers, for example, can concen- the urine, such as glucose, radiocontrast media used for trate the urine only to about 500 mOsm/L. diagnostic purposes, or some antibiotics. In these cases, urine specific gravity measurements may falsely suggest Obligatory Urine Volume a highly concentrated urine, despite a normal urine os- molality. The maximal concentrating ability of the kidney dictates Dipsticks are available that measure approximate urine how much urine volume must be excreted each day to rid specific gravity, but most laboratories measure specific the body of metabolic waste products and electrolytes that gravity with a refractometer. are ingested. A normal 70-k g person must excrete about 600 milliosmoles of solute each day. If the maximal urine concentrating ability is 1200 mOsm/L, the minimal volume of urine that must be excreted, called the obligatory urine 1400 volume, can be calculated as follows: 600mOsm/day =0.5L/day 1200 1200mOsm/L This minimal loss of volume in the urine contributes 1000 to dehydration, along with water loss from the skin, res- piratory tract, and gastrointestinal tract, when water is not Urine available to drink.
