Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of volume in the urine contributes 1000 to dehydration, along with water loss from the skin, res- piratory tract, and gastrointestinal tract, when water is not Urine available to drink. 800 Osmolarity The limited ability of the human kidney to concentrate (mOsm/L) the urine to only about 1200 mOsm/L explains why severe 600 dehydration occurs if one attempts to drink seawater. So- dium chloride concentration in the ocean averages about 400 3.0% to 3.5%, with an osmolarity between about 1000 and 1200 mOsm/L. Drinking 1 liter of seawater with a con- centration of 1200 mOsm/L would provide a total sodium 200 chloride intake of 1200 milliosmoles. If the maximal urine concentrating ability is 1200 mOsm/L, the amount of urine volume needed to excrete 1200 milliosmoles would be 1.0 1.010 1.020 1.030 1.040 liter. Why then does drinking seawater cause dehydration? Urine Specific Gravity (grams/ml) The answer is that the kidney must also excrete other sol- Figure 29-3. Relationship between specific gravity and osmolarity of utes, especially urea, which contribute about 600 mOsm/L the urine. when the urine is maximally concentrated. Therefore, the 367 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys EXCRETING CONCENTRATED URINE The major factors that contribute to the buildup of sol- REQUIRES HIGH ADH LEVELS AND ute concentration into the renal medulla are as follows: HYPEROSMOTIC RENAL MEDULLA 1. Active transport of sodium ions and co- transport of potassium, chloride, and other ions out of the thick The basic requirements for forming a concentrated urine portion of the ascending limb of the loop of Henle are (1) a high level of ADH, which increases the perme- into the medullary interstitium ability of the distal tubules and collecting ducts to water, 2. Active transport of ions from the collecting ducts thereby allowing these tubular segments to avidly reab- into the medullary interstitium sorb water; and (2) a high osmolarity of the renal medul- 3. Facilitated diffusion of urea from the inner medul- lary interstitial fluid, which provides the osmotic gradient lary collecting ducts into the medullary interstitium necessary for water reabsorption to occur in the presence 4. Diffusion of only small amounts of water from the of high levels of ADH. medullary tubules into the medullary interstitium— The renal medullary interstitium surrounding the col- far less than the reabsorption of solutes into the lecting ducts is normally hyperosmotic, so when ADH medullary interstitium levels are high, water
