Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The renal medullary interstitium surrounding the col- far less than the reabsorption of solutes into the lecting ducts is normally hyperosmotic, so when ADH medullary interstitium levels are high, water moves through the tubular mem- brane by osmosis into the renal interstitium; from there LOOP OF HENLE CHARACTERISTICS it is carried away by the vasa recta back into the blood. THAT CAUSE SOLUTES TO BE TRAPPED Thus, the urine- concentrating ability is limited by the IN THE RENAL MEDULLA level of ADH and by the degree of hyperosmolarity of the renal medulla. We discuss the factors that control ADH The transport characteristics of the loops of Henle are secretion later, but for now, what is the process whereby summarized in Table 29- 1, along with the properties of renal medullary interstitial fluid becomes hyperosmotic? the proximal tubules, distal tubules, cortical collecting This process involves the operation of the countercurrent tubules, and inner medullary collecting ducts. multiplier mechanism. A major reason for the high medullary osmolarity is The countercurrent multiplier mechanism depends on active transport of sodium and co- transport of potas- the special anatomical arrangement of the loops of Henle sium, chloride, and other ions from the thick ascending and vasa recta, the specialized peritubular capillaries of loop of Henle into the interstitium. This pump is capable the renal medulla. In humans, about 25% of the nephrons of establishing about a 200-m Osm/L concentration gra- are juxtamedullary nephrons, with loops of Henle and dient between the tubular lumen and interstitial fluid. vasa recta that go deeply into the medulla before return- Because the thick ascending limb is virtually imperme- ing to the cortex. Some of the loops of Henle dip all the able to water, the solutes pumped out are not followed way to the tips of the renal papillae that project from the by osmotic flow of water into the interstitium. Thus, the medulla into the renal pelvis. Paralleling the long loops of active transport of sodium and other ions out of the thick Henle are the vasa recta, which also loop down into the ascending loop adds solutes in excess of water to the renal medulla before returning to the renal cortex. And finally, the collecting ducts, which carry urine through the hyper- Table 29- 1 Summary of Tubule Characteristics—Urine osmotic renal medulla before it is excreted, also play a Concentration critical role in the countercurrent mechanism. Permeability
