Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


permeable to water, and the tubu- a 200- mOsm/L osmotic gradient is established, and the lar fluid osmolarity quickly becomes equal to the renal interstitial fluid osmolarity rises to 500 mOsm/L (step 5). medullary osmolarity. Therefore, water diffuses out of Then, once again, fluid in the descending limb reaches the descending limb of Henle’s loop into the interstitium, equilibrium with the hyperosmotic medullary interstitial and the tubular fluid osmolarity gradually rises as it flows fluid (step 6) and, as the hyperosmotic tubular fluid from toward the tip of the loop of Henle. the descending limb of the loop of Henle flows into the ascending limb, still more solute is continuously pumped Steps Involved in Causing Hyperosmotic Renal Medul- out of the tubules and deposited into the medullary lary Interstitium. Keeping in mind these characteristics of interstitium. the loop of Henle, let us now discuss how the renal medulla These steps are repeated over and over, with the net becomes hyperosmotic (Video 29-1). First, assume that the effect of adding more and more solute to the medulla in loop of Henle is filled with fluid having a concentration of excess of water. With sufficient time, this process gradu- 300 mOsm/L, the same as that leaving the proximal tu- ally traps solutes in the medulla and multiplies the con- bule (Figure 29-4, step 1). Next, the active ion pump of centration gradient established by the active pumping of the thick ascending limb on the loop of Henle reduces the ions out of the thick ascending loop of Henle, eventually concentration inside the tubule and raises the interstitial raising the interstitial fluid osmolarity to 1200 to 1400 concentration; this pump establishes a 200-m Osm/L con- mOsm/L, as shown in step 7. centration gradient between the tubular fluid and intersti- Thus, the repetitive reabsorption of sodium chlo- tial fluid (Figure 29-4, step 2). The limit to the gradient is ride by the thick ascending loop of Henle and continued about 200 mOsm/L because paracellular diffusion of ions inflow of new sodium chloride from the proximal tubule back into the tubule eventually counterbalances the trans- into the loop of Henle is called the countercurrent multi- port of ions out of the lumen when the 200-m Osm/L con- plier. The sodium chloride reabsorbed from the ascending centration gradient is achieved. loop of Henle keeps adding to the newly arrived sodium Step 3 is that the tubular
