Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is high, large amounts of NaCl H O urea are passively reabsorbed from the inner medullary H O 2 2 NaCl collecting ducts into the interstitium. Urea The mechanism for reabsorption of urea into the renal 1200 1200 1200 1200 medulla is as follows. As water flows up the ascending loop of Henle and into the distal and cortical collecting Figure 29-5. Formation of a concentrated urine when antidiuretic tubules, little urea is reabsorbed because these segments hormone (ADH) levels are high. Note that the fluid leaving the loop are impermeable to urea (see Table 29- 1). In the pres- of Henle is dilute but becomes concentrated as water is absorbed ence of high concentrations of ADH, water is reabsorbed from the distal tubules and collecting tubules. With high ADH levels, rapidly from the cortical collecting tubule, and the urea the osmolarity of the urine is about the same as the osmolarity of the renal medullary interstitial fluid in the papilla, which is about 1200 concentration increases rapidly because urea is not very mOsm/L. (Numerical values are in milliosmoles per liter.) permeant in this part of the tubule. As the tubular fluid flows into the inner medullary col- lecting ducts, still more water reabsorption takes place, 140 mOsm/L (Figure 29-5). The early distal tubule fur- resulting in an even higher concentration of urea in the ther dilutes the tubular fluid because this segment, like fluid. This high concentration of urea in the tubular fluid the ascending loop of Henle, actively transports sodium of the inner medullary collecting duct causes urea to dif- chloride out of the tubule but is relatively impermeable fuse out of the tubule into the renal interstitial fluid. This to water. diffusion is greatly facilitated by specific urea transporters, As fluid flows into the cortical collecting tubule, the UT- A1 and UT- A3. These urea transporters are activated amount of water reabsorbed is critically dependent on the by ADH, increasing transport of urea out of the inner plasma concentration of ADH. In the absence of ADH, medullary collecting duct even more when ADH levels this segment is almost impermeable to water and fails to are elevated. The simultaneous movement of water and reabsorb water but continues to reabsorb solutes and fur- urea out of the inner medullary collecting ducts maintains ther dilutes the urine. When there is a high concentration a high concentration of urea in the
