Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reabsorb solutes and fur- urea out of the inner medullary collecting ducts maintains ther dilutes the urine. When there is a high concentration a high concentration of urea in the tubular fluid and, even- of ADH, the cortical collecting tubule becomes highly tually, in the urine, even though urea is being reabsorbed. permeable to water, so large amounts of water are now The fundamental role of urea in contributing to urine- reabsorbed from the tubule into the cortex interstitium, concentrating ability is evidenced by the fact that people where it is swept away by the rapidly flowing peritubu- who ingest a high- protein diet, yielding large amounts of lar capillaries. Because large amounts of water are reab- urea as a nitrogenous waste product, can concentrate their sorbed into the cortex, rather than into the renal medulla, urine much better than people whose protein intake and this helps preserve the high medullary interstitial fluid urea production are low. Malnutrition is associated with a osmolarity. low urea concentration in the medullary interstitium and As the tubular fluid flows along the medullary collect- considerable impairment of urine-c oncentrating ability. ing ducts, there is further water reabsorption from the tubular fluid into the interstitium, but the total amount Recirculation of Urea from Collecting Duct to Loop of of water is relatively small compared with that added to Henle Contributes to Hyperosmotic Renal Medulla. the cortex interstitium. The reabsorbed water is carried A healthy person usually excretes about 20% to 60% of away by the vasa recta into the venous blood. When high the filtered load of urea, depending on urine flow rate and levels of ADH are present, the collecting ducts become state of hydration. In general, the rate of urea excretion is permeable to water, so the fluid at the end of the collect- determined mainly by the following: (1) concentration of ing ducts has essentially the same osmolarity as the inter- urea in the plasma; (2) glomerular filtration rate (GFR); stitial fluid of the renal medulla—about 1200 mOsm/L and (3) renal tubular urea reabsorption. In patients with (see Figure 29-4). Thus, by reabsorbing as much water renal disease who have large reductions in GFR, the plas- as possible, the kidneys form highly concentrated urine, ma urea concentration increases markedly, returning the excreting normal amounts of solutes in the urine while filtered urea load and urea excretion rate to the normal adding water
