Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


concentrated urine, ma urea concentration increases markedly, returning the excreting normal amounts of solutes in the urine while filtered urea load and urea excretion rate to the normal adding water back to the extracellular fluid and compen- level (equal to the rate of urea production), despite the sating for deficits of body water. reduced GFR. 370 xetroC alludeM Chapter 29 Urine Concentration and Dilution 100% remaining Henle, distal tubule, and cortical collecting tubule and back down into the medullary collecting duct again. In Urea 4.5 Urea4.5 this way, urea can recirculate through these terminal parts of the tubular system several times before it is excreted. Each time around the circuit contributes to a higher con- Cortex 7 centration of urea. 100% 50% remaining remaining This urea recirculation provides an additional mecha- 30 30 nism for forming a hyperosmotic renal medulla. Because Outer H O 2 urea is one of the most abundant waste products that medulla 15 must be excreted by the kidneys, this mechanism for Urea concentrating urea before it is excreted is essential to Inner medulla 300 300 the economy of the body fluid when water is in short supply. UT-A2 500 UT-A1 When there is excess water in the body, urine flow rate increases, and therefore the concentration of urea in the UT-A3 Urea 550 inner medullary collecting ducts decreases, causing less diffusion of urea into the renal medullary interstitium. ADH levels are also reduced when there is excess body 20% remaining water, and this reduction, in turn, decreases the perme- ability of the inner medullary collecting ducts to both Figure 29-6. Recirculation of urea absorbed from the medullary collecting duct into the interstitial fluid. This urea diffuses into the water and urea, and more urea is excreted in the urine. thin loop of Henle, then passes through the distal tubules, and finally passes back into the collecting duct. The recirculation of urea helps COUNTERCURRENT EXCHANGE IN VASA trap urea in the renal medulla and contributes to the hyperosmolarity RECTA PRESERVES HYPEROSMOLARITY of the renal medulla. The heavy lines, from the thick ascending loop of Henle to the medullary collecting ducts, indicate that these seg- OF RENAL MEDULLA ments are not very permeable to urea. The urea transporters UT-A 1 and UT- A3 facilitate diffusion of urea out of the medullary collecting Blood flow must be provided to the renal medulla to sup- ducts while UT- A2
