Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


transporters UT-A 1 and UT- A3 facilitate diffusion of urea out of the medullary collecting Blood flow must be provided to the renal medulla to sup- ducts while UT- A2 facilitates urea diffusion into the thin descending ply the metabolic needs of the cells in this part of the kid- loop of Henle. (Numerical values are in milliosmoles per liter of urea ney. Without a special medullary blood flow system, the during antidiuresis, when large amounts of antidiuretic hormone are solutes pumped into the renal medulla by the countercur- present. Percentages of the filtered load of urea that remain in the tubules are indicated in the boxes.) rent multiplier system would be rapidly dissipated. Two special features of the renal medullary blood In the proximal tubule, 40% to 50% of the filtered urea flow contribute to the preservation of the high solute is reabsorbed but, even so, the tubular fluid urea concen- concentrations: tration increases because urea is not nearly as permeant 1. The medullary blood flow is low, accounting for as water. The concentration of urea continues to rise as less than 5% of the total renal blood flow. This slug- the tubular fluid flows into the thin segments of the loop gish blood flow is sufficient to supply the metabolic of Henle, partly because of water reabsorption out of the needs of the tissues but helps minimize solute loss descending loop of Henle but also because of some secre- from the medullary interstitium. tion of urea into the thin loop of Henle from the medul- 2. The vasa recta serve as countercurrent exchangers, lary interstitium (Figure 29-6). The passive secretion of minimizing the washout of solutes from the medul- urea into the thin loops of Henle is facilitated by the urea lary interstitium. transporter UT- A2. The countercurrent exchange mechanism operates The thick limb of the loop of Henle, distal tubule, and as follows (Figure 29-7). Blood enters and leaves the cortical collecting tubule are all less permeable to urea, medulla via the vasa recta at the boundary of the cortex and only small amounts of urea reabsorption normally and renal medulla. The vasa recta, like other capillaries, occur in these tubular segments. When the kidney is are highly permeable to solutes in the blood, except for forming concentrated urine, and high levels of ADH are the plasma proteins. As blood descends into the medulla present, reabsorption of
