Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


highly permeable to solutes in the blood, except for forming concentrated urine, and high levels of ADH are the plasma proteins. As blood descends into the medulla present, reabsorption of water from the distal tubule and toward the papillae, it becomes progressively more con- cortical collecting tubule further raises the tubular fluid centrated, partly by solute entry from the interstitium and concentration of urea. As this urea flows into the inner partly by loss of water into the interstitium. By the time medullary collecting duct, the high tubular fluid concen- the blood reaches the tips of the vasa recta, it has a con- tration of urea and urea transporters UT-A 1 and UT-A 3 centration of about 1200 mOsm/L, the same as that of the cause urea to diffuse into the medullary interstitium. A medullary interstitium. As blood ascends back toward the moderate share of the urea that moves into the medullary cortex, it becomes progressively less concentrated as sol- interstitium eventually diffuses into the thin loop of Henle utes diffuse back out into the medullary interstitium and and then passes upward through the ascending loop of as water moves into the vasa recta. 371 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Although large amounts of fluid and solute are high concentration of solutes established by the counter- exchanged across the vasa recta, there is little net dilution current mechanism is preserved. of the concentration of the interstitial fluid at each level of the renal medulla because of the U shape of the vasa recta Increased Medullary Blood Flow Reduces Urine- capillaries, which act as countercurrent exchangers. Thus, Concentrating Ability. Certain vasodilators can mark- the vasa recta do not create the medullary hyperosmolar- edly increase renal medullary blood flow, thereby wash- ity, but they do prevent it from being dissipated. ing out some of the solutes from the renal medulla and The U- shaped structure of the vessels minimizes loss reducing the maximum urine- concentrating ability. Large of solute from the interstitium but does not prevent bulk increases in arterial pressure may also increase the blood flow of fluid and solutes into the blood through the usual flow of the renal medulla to a greater extent than in other colloid osmotic and hydrostatic pressures that favor reab- regions of the kidney and tend to wash out the hyperos- sorption in these capillaries. Under steady- state condi- motic interstitium,
