Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ml 44 ml id as it passes through the different tubular segments 200 in the presence of high levels of antidiuretic hormone 100 25 ml (ADH) and absence of ADH. (Numerical values indicate 0 20 ml the approximate volumes in milliliters per minute or in Proximal Loop of Henle Distal Collecting Urine osmolarities in milliosmoles per liter of fluid flowing tubule tubule tubule along the different tubular segments.) and duct 372 )L/msOm( ytiralomsO tnemges gnituliD latsid etaL lacitroC yralludeM HDA fo tceffE Chapter 29 Urine Concentration and Dilution Descending Loop of Henle. As fluid flows down the de- tubule to pass into the inner medullary collecting ducts, scending loop of Henle, water is absorbed into the medul- from which it is eventually reabsorbed or excreted in la. The descending limb also contains AQP-1 and is highly the urine. In the absence of ADH, little water is reab- permeable to water but much less permeable to sodium sorbed in the late distal tubule and cortical collecting chloride and urea. Therefore, the osmolarity of the fluid tubule; therefore, osmolarity decreases even further flowing through the descending loop gradually increases because of continued active reabsorption of ions from until it is nearly equal to that of the surrounding intersti- these segments. tial fluid, which is about 1200 mOsm/L when the blood concentration of ADH is high. Inner Medullary Collecting Ducts. The concentration of When dilute urine is being formed, as a result of low fluid in the inner medullary collecting ducts also depends ADH concentrations, the medullary interstitial osmolarity on the following: (1) ADH; and (2) the surrounding med- is less than 1200 mOsm/L; consequently, the descending ullary interstitium osmolarity established by the counter- loop tubular fluid osmolarity also becomes less concen- current mechanism. In the presence of large amounts of trated. This decrease in concentration is due partly to the ADH, these ducts are highly permeable to water, and wa- fact that less urea is absorbed into the medullary intersti- ter diffuses from the tubule into the interstitial fluid un- tium from the collecting ducts when ADH levels are low, til osmotic equilibrium is reached, with the tubular fluid and the kidney is forming a large volume of dilute urine. having about the same concentration as the renal med- ullary interstitium (1200–1400 mOsm/L). Thus, a small Thin Ascending Loop of Henle. The thin ascending volume of concentrated urine is produced when ADH
