Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the same concentration as the renal med- ullary interstitium (1200–1400 mOsm/L). Thus, a small Thin Ascending Loop of Henle. The thin ascending volume of concentrated urine is produced when ADH limb is essentially impermeable to water but reabsorbs levels are high. Because water reabsorption increases urea some sodium chloride. Because of the high concentration concentration in the tubular fluid, and because the inner of sodium chloride in the tubular fluid as a result of wa- medullary collecting ducts have specific urea transporters ter removal from the descending loop of Henle, there is that greatly facilitate diffusion, much of the highly con- some passive diffusion of sodium chloride from the thin centrated urea in the ducts diffuses out of the tubular lu- ascending limb into the medullary interstitium. Thus, the men into the medullary interstitium. This absorption of tubular fluid becomes more dilute as the sodium chloride the urea into the renal medulla contributes to the high diffuses out of the tubule and water remains in the tubule. osmolarity of the medullary interstitium and high con- Some of the urea absorbed into the medullary inter- centrating ability of the kidney. stitium from the collecting ducts also diffuses into the Several important points to consider may not be obvi- ascending limb, thereby returning the urea to the tubular ous from this discussion. First, although sodium chlo- system and helping prevent its washout from the renal ride is one of the principal solutes that contribute to the medulla. This urea recycling is an additional mechanism hyperosmolarity of the medullary interstitium, the kidney that contributes to the hyperosmotic renal medulla. can, when needed, excrete a highly concentrated urine that contains little sodium chloride. The hyperosmolarity of Thick Ascending Loop of Henle. The thick part of the the urine in these circumstances is due to high concentra- ascending loop of Henle is also virtually impermeable to tions of other solutes, especially of waste products such water, but large amounts of sodium, chloride, potassium, as urea. One condition in which this occurs is dehydra- and other ions are actively transported from the tubule tion accompanied by low sodium intake. As discussed into the medullary interstitium. Therefore, fluid in the in Chapter 30, a low sodium intake stimulates formation thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle becomes very of the hormones angiotensin II and aldosterone, which dilute, falling to a concentration of about 140 mOsm/L. together
