Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


stimulates formation thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle becomes very of the hormones angiotensin II and aldosterone, which dilute, falling to a concentration of about 140 mOsm/L. together cause avid sodium reabsorption from the tubules while leaving the urea and other solutes to maintain the Early Distal Tubule. The early distal tubule has properties highly concentrated urine. similar to those of the thick ascending loop of Henle, so Second, large quantities of dilute urine can be excreted further dilution of the tubular fluid to about 100 mOsm/L without increasing sodium excretion. This feat is accom- occurs as solutes are reabsorbed while water remains in plished by decreasing ADH secretion, which reduces the tubule. water reabsorption in the more distal tubular segments without significantly altering sodium reabsorption. Late Distal Tubule and Cortical Collecting Tubules. Finally, there is an obligatory urine volume dictated In the late distal tubule and cortical collecting tubules, by the maximum concentrating ability of the kidney and the osmolarity of the fluid depends on the level of ADH. amount of solute that must be excreted. Therefore, if With high ADH levels, these tubules are highly perme- large amounts of solute must be excreted, they must be able to water, and significant amounts of water are reab- accompanied by the minimal amount of water necessary sorbed. Urea, however, is not very permeant in this part to excrete them. For example, if 600 milliosmoles of solute of the nephron, resulting in increased urea concentra- must be excreted each day, this requires at least 0.5 liter tion as water is reabsorbed. This process allows most of urine if the maximal urine concentrating ability is 1200 of the urea delivered to the distal tubule and collecting mOsm/L. 373 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Quantifying Renal Urine Concentration and Dilution: urine-c oncentrating ability. No matter how much ADH Free Water and Osmolar Clearances is present, maximal urine concentration is limited by the The process of concentrating or diluting the urine requires degree of hyperosmolarity of the medullary interstitium. the kidneys to excrete water and solutes somewhat inde- 3. Inability of the distal tubules, collecting tubules, and col- pendently. When the urine is dilute, water is excreted in ex- lecting ducts to respond to ADH. Failure to Produce ADH: Central Diabetes Insipidus. cess of solutes. Conversely, when the urine is concentrated, solutes are excreted in excess of water.
