Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ex- lecting ducts to respond to ADH. Failure to Produce ADH: Central Diabetes Insipidus. cess of solutes. Conversely, when the urine is concentrated, solutes are excreted in excess of water. An inability to produce or release ADH from the posterior The total clearance of solutes from the blood can be ex- pituitary can be caused by head injuries or infections, or it pressed as the osmolar clearance (C ). This is the volume can be congenital. Because the distal tubular segments can- osm of plasma cleared of solutes each minute, in the same way not reabsorb water in the absence of ADH, this condition, that clearance of a single substance is calculated: called central diabetes insipidus, results in the formation of a ˙ large volume of dilute urine, with urine volumes that can ex- Uosm×V Cosm= ceed 15 L/day. The thirst mechanisms, discussed later in this Posm chapter, are activated when excessive water is lost from the where U is the urine osmolarity, V is the urine flow rate, and osm body; therefore, as long as the person drinks enough water, P is plasma osmolarity. For example, if the plasma osmo- osm large decreases in body fluid water do not occur. The primary larity is 300 mOsm/L, urine osmolarity is 600 mOsm/L, and abnormality observed clinically in people with this condition urine flow rate is 1 ml/min (0.001 L/min), the rate of osmolar is the large volume of dilute urine. However, if water intake is excretion is 0.6 mOsm/min (600 mOsm/L × 0.001 L/min), and restricted, as can occur in a hospital setting when fluid intake osmolar clearance is 0.6 mOsm/min divided by 300 mOsm/L, is restricted or the patient is unconscious (e.g., because of a or 0.002 L/min (2.0 ml/min). This means that 2 milliliters of head injury), severe dehydration can rapidly occur. plasma are being cleared of solute each minute. The treatment for central diabetes insipidus is admin- Free Water Clearance—Relative Rates at Which istration of a synthetic analogue of ADH, desmopressin, Solutes and Water Are Excreted which acts selectively on V 2 receptors to increase water permeability in the late distal and collecting tubules. Desm- Free water clearance (C ) is calculated as the difference H2O opressin can be given by injection, as a nasal spray, or orally, between water excretion (urine flow rate) and osmolar and it rapidly restores urine output toward normal. clearance: Inability of
