Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


can be given by injection, as a nasal spray, or orally, between water excretion (urine flow rate) and osmolar and it rapidly restores urine output toward normal. clearance: Inability of Kidneys to Respond to ADH: Nephrogenic C HO =V−C osm=V− U osm×V˙ Diabetes Insipidus. In some circumstances, normal or 2 P osm elevated levels of ADH are present but the renal tubular Thus, the rate of free water clearance represents the segments cannot respond appropriately. This condition is rate at which solute- free water is excreted by the kidneys. referred to as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus because the When free water clearance is positive, excess water is being abnormality resides in the kidneys. This abnormality can excreted by the kidneys; when free water clearance is nega- be due to failure of the countercurrent mechanism to form tive, excess solutes are being removed from the blood by a hyperosmotic renal medullary interstitium or failure of the kidneys, and water is being conserved. the distal and collecting tubules and collecting ducts to Using the example discussed earlier, if urine flow rate is 1 respond to ADH. In either case, large volumes of dilute ml/min and osmolar clearance is 2 ml/min, free water clear- urine are formed, which causes dehydration unless fluid ance would be –1 ml/min. This means that instead of water intake is increased by the same amount as urine volume being cleared from the kidneys in excess of solutes, the kid- is increased. neys are actually returning water to the systemic circulation, Many types of renal diseases can impair the concen- as occurs during water deficits. Thus, whenever urine osmo- trating mechanism, especially those that damage the renal larity is greater than plasma osmolarity, free water clear- medulla (see Chapter 32 for further discussion). Also, im- ance is negative, indicating water conservation. pairment of the function of the loop of Henle, as occurs When the kidneys are forming a dilute urine (i.e., urine with diuretics that inhibit electrolyte reabsorption by this osmolarity < plasma osmolarity), free water clearance will segment, such as furosemide, can compromise urine- be a positive value, denoting that water is being removed concentrating ability. Furthermore, certain drugs such as from the plasma by the kidneys in excess of solutes. Thus, lithium (used to treat manic- depressive disorders) and tet- water free of solutes, called free water, is being lost from racyclines (used as antibiotics) can impair the
