Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of solutes. Thus, lithium (used to treat manic- depressive disorders) and tet- water free of solutes, called free water, is being lost from racyclines (used as antibiotics) can impair the ability of the the body, and the plasma is being concentrated when free distal nephron segments to respond to ADH. water clearance is positive. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus can be distinguished from central diabetes insipidus by administration of desm- Disorders of Urinary Concentrating Ability opressin, the synthetic analogue of ADH. Lack of a prompt Impairment in the ability of the kidneys to concentrate or decrease in urine volume and an increase in urine osmo- dilute the urine appropriately can occur with one or more larity within 2 hours after injection of desmopressin is of the following abnormalities: strongly suggestive of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. The 1. Inappropriate secretion of ADH. Either too much or too appropriate treatment for nephrogenic diabetes insipidus little ADH secretion results in abnormal water excre- is to correct, if possible, the underlying renal disorder. The tion by the kidneys. hypernatremia can also be attenuated by a low- sodium diet 2. Impairment of the countercurrent mechanism. A hyper- and administration of a diuretic that enhances renal sodi- osmotic medullary interstitium is required for maximal um excretion, such as a thiazide diuretic. 374 Chapter 29 Urine Concentration and Dilution − CONTROL OF EXTRACELLULAR Water deficit FLUID OSMOLARITY AND SODIUM CONCENTRATION Regulation of extracellular fluid osmolarity and sodium Extracellular osmolarity concentration are closely linked because sodium is the most abundant ion in the extracellular compartment. Osmoreceptors Plasma sodium concentration is normally regulated ADH secretion within close limits of 140 to 145 mEq/L, with an average (posterior pituitary) concentration of about 142 mEq/L. Osmolarity averages about 300 mOsm/L (≈282 mOsm/L when corrected for interionic attraction) and seldom changes more than ±2% to 3%. As discussed in Chapter 25, these variables must Plasma ADH be precisely controlled because they determine the distri- bution of fluid between the intracellular and extracellular compartments. H O permeability in 2 distal tubules, Estimating Plasma Osmolarity From collecting ducts Plasma Sodium Concentration In most clinical laboratories, plasma osmolarity is not routinely measured. However, because sodium and its H O reabsorption 2 associated anions account for about 94% of the solute in the extracellular compartment, plasma osmolarity (P ) osm can be roughly estimated from the plasma sodium con- centration (P +) as follows: H 2O excreted Na P
