Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the solute in the extracellular compartment, plasma osmolarity (P ) osm can be roughly estimated from the plasma sodium con- centration (P +) as follows: H 2O excreted Na P osm=2.1×P Na+(mmol/L) Figure 29-9. Osmoreceptor- antidiuretic hormone (ADH) feedback mechanism for regulating extracellular fluid osmolarity in response For example, with a plasma sodium concentration of to a water deficit. 142 mEq/L, the plasma osmolarity would be estimated from this formula to be about 298 mOsm/L. To be more OSMORECEPTOR- ADH FEEDBACK exact, especially in conditions associated with renal dis- SYSTEM ease, the contribution of the plasma concentrations (in units of mmol/L) of two other solutes, glucose and urea, Figure 29-9 shows the basic components of the are usually included: osmoreceptor- ADH feedback system for control of extra- P osm=2× [P Na+,mmol/L]+[P glucose,mmol/L]+[P urea,mmol/L] cellular fluid sodium concentration and osmolarity. When osmolarity increases above normal because of water defi- Such estimates of plasma osmolarity are usually accu- cit, for example, this feedback system operates as follows: rate within a few percentage points of those measured 1. An increase in extracellular fluid osmolarity directly. (which in practical terms means an increase in Normally, sodium ions and associated anions (pri- plasma sodium concentration) causes the special marily bicarbonate and chloride) represent about 94% nerve cells called osmoreceptor cells, located in the of the extracellular osmoles, with glucose and urea con- anterior hypothalamus near the supraoptic nuclei, tributing about 3% to 5% of the total osmoles. However, to shrink. because urea easily permeates most cell membranes, it 2. Shrinkage of the osmoreceptor cells causes them to exerts little effective osmotic pressure under steady- state fire, sending nerve signals to additional nerve cells conditions. Therefore, the sodium ions in the extracel- in the supraoptic nuclei, which then relay these sig- lular fluid and associated anions are the principal deter- nals down the stalk of the pituitary gland to the pos- minants of fluid movement across the cell membrane. terior pituitary. Consequently, we can discuss the control of osmolarity 3. These action potentials conducted to the posterior and control of sodium ion concentration at the same pituitary stimulate release of ADH, which is stored time. in secretory granules (or vesicles) in the nerve end- Although multiple mechanisms control the amount of ings. sodium and water excretion by the kidneys, two primary 4. ADH enters the blood stream and is transported systems are especially involved in regulating
