Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mechanisms control the amount of ings. sodium and water excretion by the kidneys, two primary 4. ADH enters the blood stream and is transported systems are especially involved in regulating the concen- to the kidneys, where it increases the water perme- tration of sodium and osmolarity of extracellular fluid: ability of the late distal tubules, cortical collecting (1) the osmoreceptor- ADH system; and (2) the thirst tubules, and medullary collecting ducts. mechanism. 375 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys 5. The increased water permeability in the distal nephron segments causes increased water reab- sorption and excretion of a small volume of concen- trated urine. Thus, water is conserved while sodium and other sol- Pituitary utes continue to be excreted in the urine. This causes dilution of the solutes in the extracellular fluid, thereby correcting the initial excessively concentrated extracellu- Osmoreceptors lar fluid. Baroreceptors The opposite sequence of events occurs when the Cardiopulmonary extracellular fluid becomes too dilute (hypo-o smotic). Supraoptic receptors For example, with excess water ingestion and a decrease neuron in extracellular fluid osmolarity, less ADH is formed, the Paraventricular renal tubules decrease their permeability for water, less Anterior neuron water is reabsorbed, and a large volume of dilute urine lobe is formed. This in turn concentrates the body fluids and Posterior returns plasma osmolarity toward normal. lobe ADH SYNTHESIS IN SUPRAOPTIC ADH AND PARAVENTRICULAR NUCLEI OF HYPOTHALAMUS AND ADH RELEASE FROM POSTERIOR PITUITARY Figure 29-10 shows the neuroanatomy of the hypothala- mus and the pituitary gland, where ADH is synthesized and released. The hypothalamus contains two types of magnocellular (large) neurons that synthesize ADH in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothala- Urine: mus, about five-sixths in the supraoptic nuclei and about decreased flow and concentrated one-sixth in the paraventricular nuclei. Both of these nuclei have axonal extensions to the posterior pituitary. Figure 29-10. Neuroanatomy of the hypothalamus, where antidiu- retic hormone (ADH) is synthesized, and the posterior pituitary gland, Once ADH is synthesized, it is transported down the where ADH is released. axons of the neurons to their tips, terminating in the pos- terior pituitary gland. When the supraoptic and paraven- tricular nuclei are stimulated by increased osmolarity or region cause multiple deficits in the control of ADH other factors, nerve impulses pass down these nerve end- secretion, thirst, sodium appetite, and blood pressure. ings, changing their membrane permeability and increas- Electrical stimulation
