Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the control of ADH other factors, nerve impulses pass down these nerve end- secretion, thirst, sodium appetite, and blood pressure. ings, changing their membrane permeability and increas- Electrical stimulation of this region or stimulation by ing calcium entry. ADH stored in the secretory granules angiotensin II can increase ADH secretion, thirst, and (also called vesicles) of the nerve endings is released in sodium appetite. response to increased calcium entry. The released ADH In the vicinity of the AV3V region and supraoptic is then carried away in the capillary blood of the poste- nuclei are neuronal cells that are excited by small increases rior pituitary into the systemic circulation. The secretion in extracellular fluid osmolarity—hence, the term osmore- of ADH in response to an osmotic stimulus is rapid, so ceptors has been used to describe these neurons. These plasma ADH levels can increase several-fold within min- cells send nerve signals to the supraoptic nuclei to control utes, thereby providing a rapid means for altering renal their firing and secretion of ADH. It is also likely that they excretion of water. induce thirst in response to increased extracellular fluid A second neuronal area important in control- osmolarity. ling osmolarity and ADH secretion is located along Both the subfornical organ and organum vasculosum the anteroventral region of the third ventricle, called of the lamina terminalis have vascular supplies that lack the AV3V region. At the upper part of this region is a the typical blood–b rain barrier that impedes the diffusion structure called the subfornical organ and, at the infe- of most ions from the blood into brain tissue. This char- rior part, is another structure called the organum vas- acteristic makes it possible for ions and other solutes to culosum of the lamina terminalis. Between these two cross between the blood and local interstitial fluid in this organs is the median preoptic nucleus, which has mul- region. As a result, the osmoreceptors rapidly respond tiple nerve connections with the two organs, as well as to changes in osmolarity of the extracellular fluid, exert- with the supraoptic nuclei and blood pressure control ing powerful control over the secretion of ADH and over centers in the medulla of the brain. Lesions of the AV3V thirst, as discussed later. 376 Chapter 29 Urine Concentration and Dilution Table 29- 2 Control of Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion Isotonic volume depletion Isovolemic osmotic increase Increase ADH Decrease ADH
