Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


AV3V thirst, as discussed later. 376 Chapter 29 Urine Concentration and Dilution Table 29- 2 Control of Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion Isotonic volume depletion Isovolemic osmotic increase Increase ADH Decrease ADH ↑ Plasma osmolarity ↓ Plasma osmolarity P = 1.3 e−0.17 vol. 50 AVP ↓ Blood volume ↑ Blood volume 45 ↓ Blood pressure ↑ Blood pressure 40 Nausea 35 Hypoxia 30 Drugs Drugs 25 Morphine Alcohol P = 2.5 Osm + 2.0 20 AVP Nicotine Clonidine (antihypertensive) Cyclophosphamide Haloperidol (dopamine blocker) 15 10 5 more sensitive to small changes in osmolarity than to simi- 0 lar percentage changes in blood volume. For example, a change in plasma osmolarity of only 1% is sufficient to 0 5 10 15 20 increase ADH levels. By contrast, after blood loss, plasma Percent change ADH levels do not change appreciably until blood volume Figure 29-11. Effect of increased plasma osmolarity or decreased is reduced by about 10%. With further decreases in blood blood volume on the level of plasma (P) antidiuretic hormone (ADH), volume, ADH levels rapidly increase. Thus, with severe also called arginine vasopressin (AVP). (Modified from Dunn FL, Bren- nan TJ, Nelson AE, et al: The role of blood osmolality and volume in decreases in blood volume, the cardiovascular reflexes regulating vasopressin secretion in the rat. J Clin Invest 52[12]:3212, play a major role in stimulating ADH secretion. The usual 1973.) daily regulation of ADH secretion during simple dehydra- tion is effected mainly by changes in plasma osmolarity. STIMULATION OF ADH RELEASE BY Decreases in blood volume and blood pressure, however, DECREASED ARTERIAL PRESSURE AND/ greatly enhance the ADH response to increased osmolarity. OR DECREASED BLOOD VOLUME OTHER STIMULI FOR ADH SECRETION ADH release is also controlled by cardiovascular reflexes that respond to decreases in blood pressure and/or blood ADH secretion can also be increased or decreased by volume, including the following: (1) the arterial barorecep- other stimuli to the central nervous system, as well as by tor reflexes; and (2) the cardiopulmonary reflexes, both of various drugs and hormones, as shown in Table 29- 2. For which are discussed in Chapter 18. These reflex pathways example, nausea is a potent stimulus for ADH release, originate in high- pressure regions of the circulation, such which may increase to as much as 100 times normal after as the aortic arch and carotid sinus, and in low- pressure vomiting. Also, drugs such as nicotine
