Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


circulation, such which may increase to as much as 100 times normal after as the aortic arch and carotid sinus, and in low- pressure vomiting. Also, drugs such as nicotine and morphine stim- regions, especially in the cardiac atria. Afferent stimuli are ulate ADH release, whereas some drugs, such as alcohol, carried by the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves, with inhibit ADH release. The marked diuresis that occurs synapses in the nuclei of the tractus solitarius. Projections after ingestion of alcohol is due in part to the inhibition from these nuclei relay signals to the hypothalamic nuclei of ADH release. that control ADH synthesis and secretion. Thus, in addition to increased osmolarity, two other IMPORTANCE OF THIRST IN stimuli increase ADH secretion: (1) decreased arterial CONTROLLING EXTRACELLULAR pressure; and (2) decreased blood volume. Whenever FLUID OSMOLARITY AND SODIUM blood pressure and blood volume are reduced, such as CONCENTRATION during hemorrhage, increased ADH secretion causes increased fluid reabsorption by the kidneys, helping The kidneys minimize fluid loss during water deficits restore blood pressure and blood volume toward normal. through the osmoreceptor- ADH feedback system. Ade- quate fluid intake, however, is necessary to counterbal- Quantitative Importance of Osmolarity ance whatever fluid loss does occur through sweating and Cardiovascular Reflexes in and breathing and through the gastrointestinal tract. Stimulating ADH Secretion Fluid intake is regulated by the thirst mechanism, which, As shown in Figure 29-11, a decrease in effective blood together with the osmoreceptor- ADH mechanism, main- volume or an increase in extracellular fluid osmolarity tains precise control of extracellular fluid osmolarity and stimulates ADH secretion. However, ADH is considerably sodium concentration. 377 )lm/gp( HDA amsalP UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Table 29- 3 Control of Thirst Studies in animals have shown that angiotensin II acts on the subfornical organ and on the organum vasculosum Increase Thirst Decrease Thirst of the lamina terminalis. These regions are outside the ↑ Plasma osmolarity ↓ Plasma osmolarity blood–brain barrier, and peptides such as angiotensin II ↓ Blood volume ↑ Blood volume diffuse into the tissues. Because angiotensin II is also stimu- lated by factors associated with hypovolemia and low blood ↓ Blood pressure ↑ Blood pressure pressure, its effect on thirst helps restore blood volume and ↑ Angiotensin II ↓ Angiotensin II blood pressure toward normal along with the other actions Dry mouth Gastric distention of angiotensin II on the kidneys to decrease
