Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood volume and ↑ Angiotensin II ↓ Angiotensin II blood pressure toward normal along with the other actions Dry mouth Gastric distention of angiotensin II on the kidneys to decrease fluid excretion. 4. Dryness of the mouth and mucous membranes of the esophagus can elicit the sensation of thirst. Many of the same factors that stimulate ADH secre- As a result, a thirsty person may receive relief from tion also increase thirst, which is defined as the conscious thirst almost immediately after drinking water, even desire for water. though the water has not been absorbed from the gastro- intestinal tract and has not yet had an effect on extracel- CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM CENTERS lular fluid osmolarity. FOR THIRST 5. Gastrointestinal and pharyngeal stimuli influence thirst. Referring again to Figure 29-10, the same area along the In animals that have an esophageal opening to the anteroventral wall of the third ventricle that promotes exterior so that water is never absorbed into the blood, ADH release also stimulates thirst. Located anterolat- partial relief of thirst occurs after drinking, although the erally in the preoptic nucleus is another small area that relief is only temporary. Also, gastrointestinal distention when stimulated electrically, causes immediate drinking may partially alleviate thirst; For example, simple inflation that continues as long as the stimulation lasts. All these of a balloon in the stomach can relieve thirst. However, areas together are called the thirst center. relief of thirst sensations through gastrointestinal or pha- The neurons of the thirst center respond to injec- ryngeal mechanisms is short-l ived; the desire to drink is tions of hypertonic salt solutions by stimulating drinking completely satisfied only when plasma osmolarity and/or behavior. These cells almost certainly function as osmore- blood volume returns to normal. ceptors to activate the thirst mechanism in the same way The ability of animals and humans to “meter” fluid that the osmoreceptors stimulate ADH release. intake is important because it prevents overhydration. Increased osmolarity of the cerebrospinal fluid in the After a person drinks water, 30 to 60 minutes may be third ventricle has essentially the same effect to promote required for the water to be reabsorbed and distributed drinking. It is likely that the organum vasculosum of the throughout the body. If the thirst sensation were not tem- lamina terminalis, which lies immediately beneath the porarily relieved after drinking water, the person would ventricular surface at the inferior
