Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


throughout the body. If the thirst sensation were not tem- lamina terminalis, which lies immediately beneath the porarily relieved after drinking water, the person would ventricular surface at the inferior end of the AV3V region, continue to drink more and more, eventually leading is intimately involved in mediating this response. to overhydration and excess dilution of the body fluids. Experimental studies have repeatedly shown that ani- STIMULI FOR THIRST mals drink almost exactly the amount necessary to return plasma osmolarity and volume to normal. Table 29- 3 summarizes some of the known stimuli for thirst. THRESHOLD FOR OSMOLAR STIMULUS 1. One of the most important is increased extracellular OF DRINKING fluid osmolarity, which causes intracellular dehydra- tion in the thirst centers, thereby stimulating the sensa- The kidneys must continually excrete an obligatory tion of thirst. amount of water, even in a dehydrated person, to rid the The value of this response is obvious: it helps dilute body of excess solutes that are ingested or produced by extracellular fluids and returns osmolarity toward normal. metabolism. Water is also lost by evaporation from the 2. Decreases in extracellular fluid volume and arterial lungs and the gastrointestinal tract and by evaporation pressure also stimulate thirst by a pathway that is in- and sweating from the skin. Therefore, there is always a dependent of the one stimulated by increased plasma tendency for dehydration, with resultant increased extra- osmolarity. cellular fluid sodium concentration and osmolarity. Thus, blood volume loss by hemorrhage stimulates When the sodium concentration increases only about thirst, even though there might be no change in plasma 2 mEq/L above normal, the thirst mechanism is activated, osmolarity. This stimulation probably occurs because of causing a desire to drink water. This is called the thresh- neural input from cardiopulmonary and systemic arterial old for drinking. Thus, even small increases in plasma baroreceptors in the circulation. osmolarity are normally followed by water intake, which 3. A third important stimulus for thirst is angiotensin II. restores extracellular fluid osmolarity and volume toward 378 Chapter 29 Urine Concentration and Dilution normal. In this way, the extracellular fluid osmolarity and 152 sodium concentration are precisely controlled. Disorders of Thirst and Water Intake. As discussed pre- viously, increased thirst occurs in various medical disorders ADH and 148 associated with increased urine volume and reductions in thirst extracellular fluid volume, such as poorly controlled diabetes systems blocked mellitus or diabetes
