Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


occurs in various medical disorders ADH and 148 associated with increased urine volume and reductions in thirst extracellular fluid volume, such as poorly controlled diabetes systems blocked mellitus or diabetes insipidus. In these cases, increased water intake serves as a compensatory response for increased plas- ma osmolarity and/or extracellular fluid volume depletion. 144 Polydipsia, or excessive thirst, occasionally occurs in the ab- sence of known physiological stimuli for thirst. Psychogenic Normal polydipsia, for example, may be caused by mental illnesses such as schizophrenia or obsessive-c ompulsive disorders 140 and can lead to significant hyponatremia. In contrast, adip- sia, the absence of thirst even in the presence of hyperna- tremia or volume depletion, is rare but usually results from lesions to the hypothalamic thirst centers caused by trauma, infection, or surgery. Partial deficiency of the thirst mecha- 136 nism, causing inadequate water intake (hypodipsia), or an 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 inability to access fluid may occur in patients who have suf- Sodium intake (mEq/day) fered stroke, in older patients with dementia, or in critically Figure 29-12. Effect of large changes in sodium intake on extracel- ill patients. In the absence of adequate water intake, dehy- lular fluid sodium concentration in dogs under normal conditions (red dration and hypernatremia occur, despite large increases in line) and after the antidiuretic hormone (ADH) and thirst feedback ADH levels. systems were blocked (blue line). Note that control of extracellular fluid sodium concentration was poor in the absence of these feed- back systems. (Courtesy Dr. David B. Young.) INTEGRATED RESPONSES OF OSMORECEPTOR- ADH AND THIRST MECHANISMS sorption by the renal tubules. When sodium intake is low, increased levels of these hormones stimulate sodium reab- In a healthy person, the osmoreceptor-A DH and thirst sorption by the kidneys and prevent large sodium losses, mechanisms work in parallel to regulate extracellular fluid even though sodium intake may be reduced to as low as osmolarity and sodium concentration precisely, despite the 10% of normal. Conversely, with high sodium intake, de- constant challenges of dehydration. Even with additional creased formation of these hormones permits the kidneys challenges, such as high salt intake, these feedback sys- to excrete large amounts of sodium. tems are usually able to keep plasma osmolarity reasonably Because of the importance of angiotensin II and aldos- constant. Figure 29-12 shows that an increase in sodium terone in regulating sodium excretion by the kidneys, one
