Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


plasma osmolarity reasonably Because of the importance of angiotensin II and aldos- constant. Figure 29-12 shows that an increase in sodium terone in regulating sodium excretion by the kidneys, one intake to as high as six times normal has only a small effect might mistakenly infer that they also play a major role in on plasma sodium concentration as long as the ADH and regulating extracellular fluid sodium concentration. Al- though these hormones increase the amount of sodium in thirst mechanisms are both functioning normally. the extracellular fluid, they also increase the extracellular When the ADH or thirst mechanism fails, ordinarily fluid volume by increasing reabsorption of water along the other can still control extracellular osmolarity and with the sodium. Therefore, angiotensin II and aldosterone sodium concentration with reasonable effectiveness as have little effect on sodium concentration, except under ex- long as there is enough fluid intake to balance the daily treme conditions. obligatory urine volume and water losses caused by res- This relative unimportance of aldosterone in regulating piration, sweating, or gastrointestinal losses. However, extracellular fluid sodium concentration is shown by the if both the ADH and thirst mechanisms fail simultane- experiment depicted in Figure 29-13. This figure shows the ously, plasma sodium concentration and osmolarity are effect on plasma sodium concentration of changing sodium poorly controlled. Thus, when sodium intake is increased intake more than sixfold under two conditions: (1) under after blocking the total ADH- thirst system, relatively normal conditions; and (2) after the aldosterone feedback system was blocked by removing the adrenal glands and large changes in plasma sodium concentration occur. In infusing the animals with aldosterone at a constant rate so the absence of the ADH- thirst mechanisms, no other that plasma levels could not increase or decrease. Note that feedback mechanism is capable of adequately regulating when sodium intake was increased sixfold, plasma concen- plasma sodium concentration and osmolarity. tration changed only about 1% to 2% in either case. This finding indicates that even without a functional aldoster- Role of Angiotensin II and Aldosterone in Controlling one feedback system, plasma sodium concentration can Extracellular Fluid Osmolarity and Sodium Concentration be well regulated. The same type of experiment has been As discussed in Chapter 28, both angiotensin II and aldos- conducted after blocking angiotensin II formation, with the terone play an important role in regulating sodium reab- same result. 379 )L/qEm( noitartnecnoc muidos amsalP UNIT
