Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


both angiotensin II and aldos- conducted after blocking angiotensin II formation, with the terone play an important role in regulating sodium reab- same result. 379 )L/qEm( noitartnecnoc muidos amsalP UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Salt- Appetite Mechanism for Controlling Extracellular Fluid Sodium Concentration and Volume 150 Normal The maintenance of a normal extracellular fluid volume and 140 sodium concentration requires a balance between sodium AAllddoosstteerroonnee ssyysstteemm bblloocckkeedd excretion and sodium intake. Currently, sodium intake is 130 almost always greater than necessary for homeostasis. In fact, the average sodium intake for persons in industrial- 120 ized cultures who eat processed foods usually ranges be- tween 100 and 200 mEq/day, even though humans can sur- 110 vive and function normally while ingesting only 10 to 20 mEq/day. Thus, most people eat far more sodium than is 100 necessary for homeostasis, and evidence indicates that our 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 usual high sodium intake may contribute to cardiovascular Sodium intake (mEq/L) disorders such as hypertension. Figure 29-13. Effect of large changes in sodium intake on extracel- Salt appetite is due in part to the fact that animals and lular fluid sodium concentration in dogs under normal conditions (red humans like salt and eat it, regardless of whether they are line) and after the aldosterone feedback system was blocked (blue salt-d eficient. Salt appetite also has a regulatory component line). Note that the sodium concentration was maintained relatively in which there is a behavioral drive to obtain salt when a constant over this wide range of sodium intakes, with or without sodium deficiency exists in the body. This behavioral drive aldosterone feedback control. (Courtesy Dr. David B. Young.) is particularly important in herbivores, which naturally eat a low- sodium diet, but salt craving may also be important in There are two primary reasons why changes in an- humans, especially in those who have an extreme deficiency giotensin II and aldosterone do not have a major effect of sodium, such as occurs in Addison disease. In this case, on plasma sodium concentration. First, as discussed there is a deficiency of aldosterone secretion, which causes earlier, angiotensin II and aldosterone increase both excessive loss of sodium in the urine and leads to decreased sodium and water reabsorption by the renal tubules, extracellular fluid volume and decreased sodium concen- leading to increases in extracellular fluid volume and tration; both
