Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


urine and leads to decreased sodium and water reabsorption by the renal tubules, extracellular fluid volume and decreased sodium concen- leading to increases in extracellular fluid volume and tration; both of these changes elicit the desire for salt. sodium quantity but little change in sodium concentra- In general, the primary stimuli that increase salt appe- tion. Second, as long as the ADH- thirst mechanism is tite are those associated with sodium deficits and decreased functional, any tendency toward increased plasma so- blood volume or decreased blood pressure associated with dium concentration is compensated for by increased circulatory insufficiency. water intake or increased plasma ADH secretion, The neuronal mechanism for salt appetite is analogous which tends to dilute the extracellular fluid back to- to that of the thirst mechanism. Some of the same neuronal ward normal. The ADH- thirst system far overshadows centers in the AV3V region of the brain seem to be involved the angiotensin II and aldosterone systems for regulat- because lesions in this region frequently affect both thirst ing sodium concentration under normal conditions. and salt appetite simultaneously in animals. Also, circula- Even in patients with primary aldosteronism, who have tory reflexes elicited by low blood pressure or decreased extremely high levels of aldosterone, the plasma sodi- blood volume affect both thirst and salt appetite at the um concentration usually increases only about 3 to 5 same time. mEq/L above normal. Under extreme conditions caused by complete loss of Bibliography aldosterone secretion as a result of adrenalectomy or in patients with Addison disease (severely impaired secre- Agre P: The aquaporin water channels. Proc Am Thorac Soc 3:5, tion or total lack of aldosterone), there is tremendous loss 2006. of sodium by the kidneys, which can lead to a marked re- Begg DP: Disturbances of thirst and fluid balance associated with ag- duction in plasma sodium concentration. One reason for ing. Physiol Behav 178:28, 2017. this is that large losses of sodium eventually cause severe Berl T: Vasopressin antagonists. N Engl J Med 372:2207, 2015. volume depletion and decreased blood pressure, which Bourque CW: Central mechanisms of osmosensation and systemic osmoregulation. Nat Rev Neurosci 9:519, 2008. can activate the thirst mechanism through the cardio- Brown D: The discovery of water channels (aquaporins). Ann Nutr vascular reflexes. This activation leads to a further dilu- Metab 70 (Suppl 1):37, 2017. tion of the plasma sodium concentration, even though Dantzler WH, Layton
