Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Ahn JS et al: A gut-t o- brain signal of fluid Olesen ET, Fenton RA: Aquaporin-2 membrane targeting: still a co- osmolarity controls thirst satiation. Nature 568: 98, 2019. nundrum. Am J Physiol Zimmerman CA, Leib DE, Knight ZA: Neural circuits underlying thirst Pallone TL, Edwards A, Mattson DL: Renal medullary circulation. and fluid homeostasis. Nat Rev Neurosci 18:459, 2017. Compr Physiol 2:97, 2012. Pannabecker TL: Structure and function of the thin limbs of the loop of Henle. Compr Physiol 2:2063, 2012. 381 UNIT V CHAPTER 3 0 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium; Integration of Renal Mechanisms for Control of Blood Volume and Extracellular Fluid Volume REGULATION OF EXTRACELLULAR than 98% of the total body potassium is contained in FLUID POTASSIUM CONCENTRATION the cells, they can serve as an overflow site for excess AND POTASSIUM EXCRETION extracellular fluid potassium during hyperkalemia or as a source of potassium during hypokalemia. Thus, redis- The extracellular fluid potassium concentration nor- tribution of potassium between the intracellular and mally is regulated at about 4.2 mEq/L, seldom rising or extracellular fluid compartments provides a first line of falling more than ±0.3 mEq/L. This precise control is defense against changes in extracellular fluid potassium necessary because many cell functions are sensitive to concentration. changes in extracellular fluid potassium concentration. For example, an increase in plasma potassium concen- REGULATION OF INTERNAL POTASSIUM tration of only 3 to 4 mEq/L can cause cardiac arrhyth- DISTRIBUTION mias, and higher concentrations can lead to cardiac arrest or fibrillation. After ingestion of a potassium- rich meal, extracellular A special difficulty in regulating extracellular potas- fluid potassium concentration would rise to a danger- sium concentration is the fact that more than 98% of the ous level if the ingested potassium did not move into the total body potassium is contained in the cells, and only cells rapidly. For example, absorption of 40 mEq of potas- 2% is contained in the extracellular fluid (Figure 30- 1). sium (the amount contained in a meal rich in vegetables For a 70- kg adult, who has about 28 liters of intracellular and fruit) into an extracellular fluid volume of 14 liters fluid (40% of body weight) and 14 liters of extracellular would raise plasma potassium concentration by about 2.9 fluid (20% of body weight), about 3920 mEq of potas- mEq/L if all the potassium remained in the extracellular sium are inside the cells,
