Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


plasma potassium concentration by about 2.9 fluid (20% of body weight), about 3920 mEq of potas- mEq/L if all the potassium remained in the extracellular sium are inside the cells, and only about 59 mEq are in compartment. Fortunately, most of the ingested potas- the extracellular fluid. Also, the potassium contained in a sium rapidly moves into the cells until the kidneys can single meal may be as high as 50 mEq, and the daily intake eliminate the excess. Between meals, plasma potassium usually ranges between 50 and 200 mEq/day; therefore, concentration also remains nearly constant as potassium failure to rapidly rid the extracellular fluid of the ingested potassium could cause life- threatening hyperkalemia (increased plasma potassium concentration). Likewise, a K+ intake small loss of potassium from the extracellular fluid could 100 mEq/day cause severe hypokalemia (low plasma potassium con- centration) in the absence of rapid and appropriate com- Extracellular Intracellular fluid K+ fluid K+ pensatory responses. Maintenance of a balance between intake and output of 4.2 mEq/L 140 mEq/L potassium depends primarily on excretion by the kidneys × 14 L × 28 L because the amount excreted in the feces is only about 5% to 10% of the potassium intake. Thus, the maintenance 59 mEq 3920 mEq of a normal potassium balance requires the kidneys to adjust their potassium excretion rapidly and precisely in response to wide variations in intake, as is also true for K+ output Urine 92 mEq/day most other electrolytes. Feces 8 mEq/day Control of potassium distribution between the extra- 100 mEq/day cellular and intracellular compartments also plays an Figure 30-1. Normal potassium intake, distribution of potassium in important role in potassium homeostasis. Because more the body fluids, and potassium output from the body. 383 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Table 30- 1 Factors That Can Alter Potassium Acid–Base Abnormalities Can Cause Changes in Distribution Between Intracellular and Extracellular Potassium Distribution. Metabolic acidosis increases Fluids extracellular potassium concentration, in part by caus- Factors That Shift K+ Into Factors That Shift K+ Out of ing loss of potassium from the cells, whereas metabolic Cells (Decrease Extracellular Cells (Increase Extracellular alkalosis decreases extracellular fluid potassium con- [K+]) [K+]) centration. Although the mechanisms responsible for Insulin Insulin deficiency (diabetes the effect of hydrogen ion concentration on internal dis- mellitus) tribution of potassium are not completely understood, Aldosterone Aldosterone deficiency one effect of increased hydrogen ion
