Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Insulin Insulin deficiency (diabetes the effect of hydrogen ion concentration on internal dis- mellitus) tribution of potassium are not completely understood, Aldosterone Aldosterone deficiency one effect of increased hydrogen ion concentration is to (Addison disease) reduce activity of the Na+-K + ATPase pump. This reduc- β- Adrenergic stimulation β- Adrenergic blockade tion, in turn, decreases cellular uptake of potassium and Alkalosis Acidosis raises extracellular potassium concentration. Alkalosis Cell lysis has the opposite effect, shifting potassium from the ex- Strenuous exercise tracellular fluid into the cells and tending to cause hy- Increased extracellular fluid pokalemia. osmolarity Cell Lysis Causes Increased Extracellular Potassium Concentration. As cells are destroyed, the large amounts is released by the cells to balance the extracellular fluid of potassium contained in the cells are released into the potassium excreted by the kidneys. Table 30- 1 sum- extracellular fluid. This release of potassium can cause marizes some of the factors that can influence the dis- significant hyperkalemia if large amounts of tissue are de- tribution of potassium between the intracellular and stroyed, as occurs with severe muscle injury or with red extracellular compartments. blood cell lysis. Insulin Stimulates Potassium Uptake Into Cells. Strenuous Exercise Can Cause Hyperkalemia by Re- Insulin stimulates sodium- potassium adenosine triphos- leasing Potassium From Skeletal Muscle. During pro- phatase (ATPase) activity in many tissues, including skel- longed exercise, potassium is released from skeletal mus- etal muscle, which in turn transports potassium into the cle into the extracellular fluid. Usually the hyperkalemia cells. Insulin is important for increasing cell potassium is mild, but it may be clinically significant after heavy uptake after a meal. In people who have insulin-d eficient exercise, especially in patients treated with β- adrenergic diabetes mellitus, the rise in plasma potassium concen- blockers or in individuals with insulin deficiency. In rare tration after eating a meal is much greater than normal. cases, hyperkalemia after exercise may be severe enough Injections of insulin, however, can help correct the hyper- to cause cardiac toxicity. kalemia. Increased Extracellular Fluid Osmolarity Causes Re- Aldosterone Increases Potassium Uptake Into Cells. distribution of Potassium From Cells to Extracellu- Increased potassium intake also stimulates secretion of lar Fluid. Increased extracellular fluid osmolarity causes aldosterone, which increases cell potassium uptake. Ex- osmotic flow of water out of the cells. The cellular dehy- cess aldosterone secretion (Conn syndrome) is almost dration increases intracellular potassium concentration, invariably associated with hypokalemia, due in
