Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the proximal tubule and ascending day, the kidneys must excrete about 92 mEq/day (the re- loop of Henle, so only about 8% of the filtered load is delivered to the maining 8 mEq are lost in the feces). About 60 mEq/day distal tubule. Secretion of potassium by the principal cells of the late dis- of potassium are secreted into the distal and collecting tal tubules and collecting ducts adds to the amount delivered, but there tubules, accounting for most of the excreted potassium. is some additional reabsorption by the intercalated cells; therefore, the daily excretion is about 12% of the potassium filtered at the glomerular With a high potassium intake, the required extra excre- capillaries. The percentages indicate how much of the filtered load is tion of potassium is achieved almost entirely by increasing reabsorbed or secreted into the different tubular segments. the secretion of potassium into the distal and collecting tubules. In fact, in those who consume extremely high- constant in healthy persons because of the autoregulatory potassium diets, the rate of potassium excretion can mechanisms for GFR discussed previously and the preci- exceed the amount of potassium in the glomerular filtrate, sion with which plasma potassium concentration is regu- indicating a powerful mechanism for secreting potassium. lated. Severe decreases in GFR in certain renal diseases, When potassium intake is low, secretion of potassium however, can cause serious potassium accumulation and in the distal and collecting tubules decreases, causing a hyperkalemia. reduction in urinary potassium excretion. There is also Figure 30- 2 summarizes the tubular handling of potas- increased reabsorption of potassium by the intercalated sium under normal conditions. About 65% of the filtered cells in the distal segments of the nephron, and potassium potassium is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule. Another excretion can fall to less than 1% of the potassium in the 25% to 30% of the filtered potassium is reabsorbed in the glomerular filtrate (to <10 mEq/day). With potassium loop of Henle, especially in the thick ascending part, where intakes below this level, severe hypokalemia can develop. potassium is actively co- transported along with sodium Thus, most of the daily regulation of potassium excre- and chloride. In the proximal tubule and loop of Henle, a tion occurs in the late distal and cortical collecting relatively constant fraction of the filtered potassium load tubules, where potassium can be reabsorbed or secreted, is reabsorbed. Changes in potassium
