Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tion occurs in the late distal and cortical collecting relatively constant fraction of the filtered potassium load tubules, where potassium can be reabsorbed or secreted, is reabsorbed. Changes in potassium reabsorption in these depending on the needs of the body. In the next section, segments can influence potassium excretion, but most of the we consider the basic mechanisms of potassium secretion daily variation of potassium excretion is not due to changes and the factors that regulate this process. in reabsorption in the proximal tubule or loop of Henle. The collecting tubules and collecting ducts reabsorb potassium PRINCIPAL CELLS OF LATE DISTAL AND at variable rates, depending on the potassium intake. CORTICAL COLLECTING TUBULES SECRETE POTASSIUM Variable Potassium Secretion in Distal and Collecting Tubules Mediates Most Daily Changes in Potassium The cells in the late distal and cortical collecting tubules Excretion. The most important sites for regulating po- that secrete potassium are called principal cells and tassium excretion are the principal cells of the late distal make up most of the epithelial cells in these regions. tubules and cortical collecting tubules. In these tubular Figure 30-3 shows the basic cellular mechanisms of segments, potassium can at times be reabsorbed or at potassium secretion by the principal cells. 385 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Secretion of potassium from the blood into the tubu- 4 lar lumen is a two- step process, beginning with uptake from the interstitium into the cell by the Na+- K+ ATPase 3 pump in the basolateral cell membrane. This pump moves EEffffeecctt ooff aallddoosstteerroonnee sodium out of the cell into the interstitium and, at the same time, moves potassium to the interior of the cell. 2 The second step of the process is passive diffusion of potassium from the interior of the cell into the tubular fluid. The Na+- K+ ATPase pump creates a high intracel- 1 lular potassium concentration, which provides the driv- EEffffeecctt ooff eexxttrraacceelllluullaarr ing force for passive diffusion of potassium from the cell KK++ ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn into the tubular lumen. The luminal membrane of the 0 principal cells is highly permeable to potassium because 0 1 2 3 4 5 there are two types of special channels that allow potas- Plasma aldosterone (× normal) sium ions to diffuse across the membrane rapidly: (1) 11 22 33 44 55 the renal outer medullary potassium (ROMK) channels, EExxttrraacceelllluullaarr ppoottaassssiiuumm ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn ((mmEEqq//LL)) and (2)
