Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


aldosterone (× normal) sium ions to diffuse across the membrane rapidly: (1) 11 22 33 44 55 the renal outer medullary potassium (ROMK) channels, EExxttrraacceelllluullaarr ppoottaassssiiuumm ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn ((mmEEqq//LL)) and (2) high- conductance, “big” potassium (BK) chan- Figure 30-4. Effect of plasma aldosterone concentration (red line) nels. Both types of potassium channels are required for and extracellular potassium ion concentration (black line) on the rate of efficient renal potassium excretion, and their abundance urinary potassium excretion. These factors stimulate potassium secre- in the luminal membrane is increased during high potas- tion by the principal cells of the cortical collecting tubules. (Data from sium intake. Young DB, Paulsen AW: Interrelated effects of aldosterone and plasma potassium on potassium excretion. Am J Physiol 244:F28, 1983.) Control of Potassium Secretion by Principal Cells. The primary factors that control potassium secretion by pumped into the type B intercalated cell by a hydrogen- the principal cells of the late distal and cortical collecting potassium ATPase transporter on the basolateral mem- tubules are the following: (1) the activity of the Na+- K+ brane, and it then diffuses into the tubular lumen through ATPase pump; (2) the electrochemical gradient for potas- potassium channels. sium secretion from the blood to the tubular lumen; and (3) the permeability of the luminal membrane for potas- SUMMARY OF MAJOR FACTORS THAT sium. These three determinants of potassium secretion REGULATE POTASSIUM SECRETION are, in turn, regulated by several factors, discussed later. Because the normal regulation of potassium excretion Intercalated Cells Can Reabsorb or Secrete Potassium. occurs mainly as a result of changes in potassium secre- In circumstances associated with severe potassium deple- tion by the principal cells of the late distal and collecting tion, there is a cessation of potassium secretion and a net tubules, in this chapter we discuss the primary factors that reabsorption of potassium in the late distal and collecting influence secretion by these cells. The most important tubules. This reabsorption occurs through the type A in- factors that stimulate potassium secretion by the princi- tercalated cells. Although this reabsorptive process is not pal cells include the following: (1) increased extracellular completely understood, one mechanism believed to con- fluid potassium concentration; (2) increased aldosterone; tribute is a hydrogen- potassium ATPase transport mecha- and (3) increased tubular flow rate. nism located in the luminal membrane (see Chapter 28, One factor that decreases potassium secretion is an Figure 28- 13). This transporter
