Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


transport mecha- and (3) increased tubular flow rate. nism located in the luminal membrane (see Chapter 28, One factor that decreases potassium secretion is an Figure 28- 13). This transporter reabsorbs potassium in increased hydrogen ion concentration (acidosis). exchange for hydrogen ions secreted into the tubular lu- men, and the potassium then diffuses through basolateral Increased Extracellular Fluid Potassium Concentra- membrane potassium channels into the interstitial fluid. tion Stimulates Potassium Secretion. The rate of po- This abundance of intercalated cell hydrogen- potassium tassium secretion in the late distal and cortical collecting ATPase transporters is enhanced with potassium deple- tubules is directly stimulated by increased extracellular tion and hypokalemia, causing increased hydrogen ion se- fluid potassium concentration, leading to increases in po- cretion and alkalosis. Under normal conditions, however, tassium excretion, as shown in Figure 30- 4. This effect is potassium reabsorption by intercalated cells plays only a especially pronounced when extracellular fluid potassium small role in controlling potassium excretion. concentration rises above about 4.1 mEq/L, slightly less When there is excess potassium in the body fluids, type than the normal concentration. Increased plasma potas- B intercalated cells in the late distal tubules and collect- sium concentration, therefore, serves as one of the most ing tubules actively secrete potassium into the tubular important mechanisms for increasing potassium secre- lumen and have functions that are opposite to those of tion and regulating extracellular fluid potassium ion con- type A cells (see Chapter 28, Figure 28- 13). Potassium is centration. 386 noitercxe muissatop yranirU )lamron ×( Chapter 30 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium Increased dietary potassium intake and increased 70 extracellular fluid potassium concentration stimulate 60 potassium secretion by at least four mechanisms: 1. Increased extracellular fluid potassium concentra- 50 tion stimulates the Na+- K+ ATPase pump, thereby 40 increasing potassium uptake across the basolateral membrane. This increased potassium uptake in 30 turn increases intracellular potassium ion concen- 20 tration, causing potassium to diffuse across the lu- minal membrane into the tubule. 10 2. Increased extracellular potassium concentration in- 0 creases the potassium gradient from the renal inter- 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 6.5 stitial fluid to the interior of the epithelial cell, which SSeerruumm ppoottaassssiiuumm ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn ((mmEEqq//LL)) reduces backleakage of potassium ions from inside Figure 30-5. Effect of extracellular fluid potassium ion concentra- the cells through the basolateral membrane. tion on plasma aldosterone concentration. Note that small
