Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reduces backleakage of potassium ions from inside Figure 30-5. Effect of extracellular fluid potassium ion concentra- the cells through the basolateral membrane. tion on plasma aldosterone concentration. Note that small changes 3. Increased potassium intake stimulates synthe- in potassium concentration cause large changes in aldosterone con- sis of potassium channels and their translocation centration. from the cytosol to the luminal membrane, which, in turn, increases the ease of potassium diffusion 11 through the membrane. AAlldd 4. Increased potassium concentration stimulates al- KK++ dosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex, which ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn further stimulates potassium secretion, as discussed KK++ 44 next. AAllddoosstteerroonnee Aldosterone Stimulates Potassium Secretion. Aldos- ccoonncceennttrraattiioonn terone stimulates active reabsorption of sodium ions by KK++ eexxccrreettiioonn the principal cells of the late distal tubules and collecting 33 KK++ ducts (see Chapter 28). This effect is mediated through eexxccrreettiioonn a Na+- K+ ATPase pump that transports sodium outward ++ −− AAlldd.. 22 through the basolateral membrane of the cell and into the KK++ iinnttaakkee renal interstitial fluid at the same time that it pumps po- Figure 30-6. Basic feedback mechanism for control of extracellular tassium into the cell. Thus, aldosterone also has a pow- fluid potassium concentration by aldosterone (Ald). erful effect on controlling the rate at which the principal cells secrete potassium and reabsorb sodium. in Figure 30- 6. In this feedback system, an increase in A second effect of aldosterone is to increase the num- plasma potassium concentration stimulates aldosterone ber of potassium channels in the luminal membrane and secretion and, therefore, increases plasma aldosterone therefore its permeability for potassium, further adding to concentration (block 1). The increase in plasma aldoste- the effectiveness of aldosterone in stimulating potassium rone then causes a marked increase in potassium excre- secretion. Therefore, aldosterone has a powerful effect to tion by the kidneys (block 2). The increased potassium increase potassium excretion, as shown in Figure 30- 4. excretion then reduces the extracellular fluid potassium concentration back toward normal (circle 3 and block 4). Increased Extracellular Potassium Ion Concentration Thus, this feedback mechanism acts synergistically, with Stimulates Aldosterone Secretion. In negative feed- the direct effect of increased extracellular potassium con- back control systems, the factor that is controlled usually centration to elevate potassium excretion when potas- has a feedback effect on the controller. In the case of the sium intake is raised (Figure 30- 7). aldosterone- potassium control system, the rate of aldos- terone
