Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


when potas- has a feedback effect on the controller. In the case of the sium intake is raised (Figure 30- 7). aldosterone- potassium control system, the rate of aldos- terone secretion by the adrenal gland is controlled strong- Blockade of Aldosterone Feedback System Greatly ly by extracellular fluid potassium ion concentration. Impairs Potassium Regulation. In the absence of al- Figure 30- 5 shows that an increase in plasma potassium dosterone secretion, as occurs in patients with Addison concentration of about 3 mEq/L can increase the plasma disease, renal secretion of potassium is impaired, thus aldosterone concentration from nearly 0 to as high as 60 causing the extracellular fluid potassium concentration to ng/100 ml, a concentration almost 10 times normal. rise to dangerously high levels. Conversely, with excess al- The effect of potassium ion concentration to stimu- dosterone secretion (primary aldosteronism), potassium late aldosterone secretion is part of a powerful feedback secretion becomes greatly increased, causing potassium system for regulating potassium excretion, as shown loss by the kidneys, thus leading to hypokalemia. 387 enoretsodla amsalp etamixorppA )amsalp lm 001/gn( noitartnecnoc UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys 70 K+ intake 60 HHiigghh--ppoottaassssiiuumm ddiieett Plasma K+ 50 concentration 40 Aldosterone K+secretion 30 Cortical collecting NNoorrmmaall--ppoottaassssiiuumm ddiieett tubules 20 LLooww--ppoottaassssiiuumm ddiieett 10 K+ excretion 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Figure 30-7. Primary mechanisms whereby high potassium intake raises potassium excretion. Note that increased plasma potassium TTuubbuullaarr ffllooww rraattee ((nnll//mmiinn)) concentration directly raises potassium secretion by the cortical col- Figure 30-9. Relationship between flow rate in the cortical collect- lecting tubules and indirectly increases potassium secretion by raising ing tubules and potassium secretion and the effect of changes in plasma aldosterone concentration. potassium intake. Note that a high dietary potassium intake greatly enhances the effect of increased tubular flow rate to increase potassi- um secretion. The shaded bar shows the approximate normal tubular 4.8 flow rate under most physiological conditions. (Data from Malnic G, Berliner RW, Giebisch G: Flow dependence of K+ secretion in cortical distal tubes of the rat. Am J Physiol 256:F932, 1989.) 4.6 Note that in the normal animals, a sevenfold increase 4.4 in potassium intake caused only a slight increase in plasma potassium concentration, from 4.2 to 4.3 mEq/L. NNoorrmmaall Thus, when the aldosterone feedback system is function- 4.2 ing normally, potassium concentration is precisely con- trolled, despite large changes in potassium intake. AAllddoosstteerroonnee 4.0 ssyysstteemm
