Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to 4.3 mEq/L. NNoorrmmaall Thus, when the aldosterone feedback system is function- 4.2 ing normally, potassium concentration is precisely con- trolled, despite large changes in potassium intake. AAllddoosstteerroonnee 4.0 ssyysstteemm When the aldosterone feedback system was blocked, bblloocckkeedd the same increases in potassium intake caused a much larger increase in plasma potassium concentration, from 3.8 3.8 to almost 4.7 mEq/L. Thus, control of potassium concentration is greatly impaired when the aldosterone 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 feedback system is blocked. A similar impairment of PPoottaassssiiuumm iinnttaakkee ((mmEEqq//ddaayy)) potassium regulation is observed in people with poorly Figure 30-8. Effect of large changes in potassium intake on plasma functioning aldosterone feedback systems, such as occurs potassium concentration under normal conditions (red line) and af- in patients with primary aldosteronism (too much aldo- ter the aldosterone feedback was blocked (blue line). Note that after blockade of the aldosterone system, regulation of potassium concen- sterone) or Addison disease (too little aldosterone). tration was greatly impaired. (Courtesy Dr. David B. Young.) Increased Distal Tubular Flow Rate Stimulates Potas- In addition to its stimulatory effect on renal secretion sium Secretion. A rise in distal tubular flow rate, as occurs of potassium, aldosterone also increases cellular uptake of with volume expansion, high sodium intake, or treatment potassium. This contributes to the powerful aldosterone- with some diuretics, stimulates potassium secretion (Figure potassium feedback system, as discussed previously. 30- 9). Conversely, a decrease in distal tubular flow rate, as The special quantitative importance of the aldosterone caused by sodium depletion, reduces potassium secretion. feedback system in controlling potassium concentration The effect of the tubular flow rate on potassium secre- is shown in Figure 30- 8. In this experiment, potassium tion in the distal and collecting tubules is strongly influ- intake was increased almost sevenfold in dogs under two enced by potassium intake. When potassium intake is conditions: (1) under normal conditions; and (2) after the high, increased tubular flow rate has a much greater effect aldosterone feedback system had been blocked by remov- to stimulate potassium secretion than when potassium ing the adrenal glands and placing the animals on a fixed intake is low (see Figure 30- 9). rate of aldosterone infusion, so that plasma aldosterone There are two main effects of a high- volume flow rate concentration was maintained at a normal level but could that increase potassium secretion: neither increase nor decrease as potassium
