Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


There are two main effects of a high- volume flow rate concentration was maintained at a normal level but could that increase potassium secretion: neither increase nor decrease as potassium intake was 1. When potassium is secreted into the tubular fluid, altered. the luminal concentration of potassium increases, 388 noitartnecnoc muissatop amsalP )L/qEm( etar noiterces muissatoP )nim/lomp( Chapter 30 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium Acute Acidosis Decreases Potassium Secretion. Acute Na+ intake increases in extracellular fluid hydrogen ion concentra- tion (acidosis) reduce potassium secretion, whereas de- creased hydrogen ion concentration (alkalosis) increases Fractional proximal Aldosterone GFR tubular Na+ potassium secretion. The primary mechanism whereby reabsorption increased hydrogen ion concentration inhibits potassium secretion is by reducing activity of the Na+- K+ ATPase pump. This reduction in turn decreases intracellular po- Distal tubular tassium concentration and subsequent passive diffusion flow rate of potassium across the luminal membrane into the tu- bule. Acidosis may also reduce the number of potassium channels in the luminal membrane. − K+ secretion + With more prolonged acidosis, lasting over a period Cortical collecting of several days, there is an increase in urinary potas- ducts sium excretion. The mechanism for this effect is due in part to an effect of chronic acidosis to inhibit proxi- mal tubular sodium chloride and water reabsorption, Unchanged K+ which increases distal volume delivery, thereby stimu- excretion lating potassium secretion. This effect overrides the Figure 30-10. Effect of high sodium intake on renal excretion of inhibitory effect of hydrogen ions on the Na+-K + ATPase potassium. Note that a high- sodium diet decreases plasma aldos- pump. Thus, chronic acidosis leads to a loss of potassium, terone, which tends to decrease potassium secretion by the corti- whereas acute acidosis leads to decreased potassium cal collecting tubules. However, the high- sodium diet simultaneously excretion. increases fluid delivery to the cortical collecting duct, which tends to increase potassium secretion. The opposing effects of a high- sodium Beneficial Effects of Diet High in Potassium and Low diet counterbalance each other, so there is little change in potassium in Sodium Content excretion. GFR, Glomerular filtration rate. For most of human history, the typical diet has been one that thereby reducing the driving force for potassium is low in sodium and high in potassium content, compared diffusion across the luminal membrane. With in- with the typical modern diet. In isolated populations that have creased tubular flow
