Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is low in sodium and high in potassium content, compared diffusion across the luminal membrane. With in- with the typical modern diet. In isolated populations that have creased tubular flow rate, the secreted potassium is not experienced industrialization, such as the Yanomamo tribe living in the Amazon region of Northern Brazil, sodium continuously flushed down the tubule, minimizing intake may be as low as 10 to 20 mmol/day, and potassium the rise in tubular potassium concentration and in- intake may be as high as 200 mmol/day. This intake is due to creasing net potassium secretion. their consumption of a diet containing large amounts of fruits 2. A high tubular flow rate also increases the number and vegetables and no processed foods. Populations consum- of high- conductance BK channels in the luminal ing this type of diet typically do not experience age-r elated in- membrane. Although the BK channels are nor- creases in blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases. mally quiescent, they become active in response With industrialization and increased consumption of to increases in flow rate, thereby greatly increasing processed foods, which often have high sodium and low potassium conductance across the luminal mem- potassium content, there have been dramatic increases in brane. sodium intake and decreases in potassium intake. In most The effect of increased tubular flow rate is especially industrialized countries, potassium consumption averages only 30 to 70 mmol/day, and sodium intake averages 140 to important in helping preserve normal potassium excre- 180 mmol/day. tion during changes in sodium intake. For example, with Experimental and clinical studies have shown that the a high sodium intake, there is decreased aldosterone combination of a high- sodium and low- potassium diet secretion, which by itself would tend to decrease the rate increases the risk for hypertension and associated car- of potassium secretion and, therefore, reduce urinary diovascular and kidney diseases. A diet rich in potassium, excretion of potassium. However, the high distal tubular however, seems to protect against the adverse effects of a flow rate that occurs with a high sodium intake tends high- sodium diet, reducing blood pressure and the risk for to increase potassium secretion (Figure 30-1 0). There- stroke, coronary artery disease, and kidney disease. The fore, the two effects of a high sodium intake—decreased beneficial effects of increasing potassium intake are espe- aldosterone secretion and high tubular flow rate— cially apparent when combined with a low- sodium diet.
