Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


effects of a high sodium intake—decreased beneficial effects of increasing potassium intake are espe- aldosterone secretion and high tubular flow rate— cially apparent when combined with a low- sodium diet. counterbalance each other, so there is little change in Dietary guidelines published by various organizations have recommended reducing the dietary intake of sodium potassium excretion. Likewise, with a low sodium intake, chloride to about 65 to 100 mmol/day (corresponding to there is little change in potassium excretion because of 1.5–2.3 g/day of sodium or 3.8–5.8 g/day sodium chloride) the counterbalancing effects of increased aldosterone while increasing potassium intake to 120 mmol/day (4.7 g/ secretion and decreased tubular flow rate on potassium day) for healthy adults. secretion. 389 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys REGULATION OF RENAL CALCIUM [Ca2+] EXCRETION AND EXTRACELLULAR CALCIUM ION CONCENTRATION The mechanisms for regulating calcium ion concentration Vitamin D 3 PTH are discussed in detail in Chapter 80, along with the endo- activation crinology of the calcium-r egulating hormones, parathy- roid hormone (PTH), and calcitonin. Therefore, calcium ion regulation is discussed only briefly in this chapter. Intestinal Ca2+ Renal Ca2+ Ca2+ release The extracellular fluid calcium ion concentration nor- reabsorption reabsorption from bones mally remains tightly controlled within a few percentage Figure 30-11. Compensatory responses to decreased plasma ion- points of its normal level, 2.4 mEq/L. When the calcium ized calcium concentration mediated by parathyroid hormone (PTH) ion concentration falls to low levels (hypocalcemia), the and vitamin D. excitability of nerve and muscle cells increases markedly and can, in extreme cases, result in hypocalcemic tetany. This condition is characterized by spastic skeletal muscle levels back toward normal. When the calcium ion con- contractions. Hypercalcemia (increased calcium concen- centration is elevated, CSR activity of the parathyroid cells tration) depresses neuromuscular excitability and can is stimulated, causing a reduction in PTH secretion, so lead to cardiac arrhythmias. almost no bone resorption occurs; instead, excess calcium About 50% of the total calcium in the plasma (5 mEq/L) is deposited in the bones. Thus, the daily regulation of cal- exists in the ionized form, which is the form that has bio- cium ion concentration is mediated in large part by the logical activity at cell membranes. The remainder is bound effects of PTH on bone resorption. to plasma proteins (≈40%) or complexed in the nonionized The bones, however, do not have an inexhaustible sup- form with anions
