Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


remainder is bound effects of PTH on bone resorption. to plasma proteins (≈40%) or complexed in the nonionized The bones, however, do not have an inexhaustible sup- form with anions such as phosphate and citrate (≈10%). ply of calcium. Therefore, over the long term, intake of Changes in plasma hydrogen ion concentration influ- calcium must be balanced with calcium excretion by the ence calcium binding to plasma proteins. With acidosis, gastrointestinal tract and kidneys. The most important less calcium is bound to the plasma proteins. Conversely, regulator of calcium reabsorption at both these sites is with alkalosis, a greater amount of calcium is bound to PTH, which regulates the plasma calcium concentration the plasma proteins. Therefore, patients with alkalosis are through three main effects: (1) by stimulating bone resorp- more susceptible to hypocalcemic tetany. tion; (2) by stimulating activation of vitamin D, which then As with other substances in the body, calcium intake increases intestinal reabsorption of calcium; and (3) by must be balanced with the net loss of calcium over the increasing renal tubular calcium reabsorption (Figure 30- long term. Unlike ions such as sodium and chloride, how- 11). The control of gastrointestinal calcium reabsorption ever, much of the calcium excretion occurs in the feces. and calcium exchange in the bones is discussed elsewhere; The usual rate of dietary calcium intake is about 1000 mg/ the remainder of this section focuses on the mechanisms day, with about 900 mg/day of calcium excreted in the that control renal calcium excretion. feces. Under certain conditions, fecal calcium excretion can exceed calcium ingestion because calcium can also be CONTROL OF CALCIUM EXCRETION BY secreted into the intestinal lumen. Therefore, the gastro- THE KIDNEYS intestinal tract and regulatory mechanisms that influence Calcium is filtered and reabsorbed in the kidneys but is intestinal calcium absorption and secretion play a major not secreted. Therefore, the rate of renal calcium excre- role in calcium homeostasis, as discussed in Chapter 80. tion is calculated as follows: Almost all the calcium in the body (99%) is stored in Renalcalciumexcretion = Calciumfiltered the bone, with only about 0.1% in the extracellular fluid −Calciumreabsorbed and 1.0% in the intracellular fluid and cell organelles. The bone, therefore, acts as a large reservoir for calcium and Only about 60% of the plasma calcium is ionized, as a source of calcium when extracellular fluid calcium with 40% being bound to the plasma proteins
