Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


reservoir for calcium and Only about 60% of the plasma calcium is ionized, as a source of calcium when extracellular fluid calcium with 40% being bound to the plasma proteins and 10% concentration tends to decrease. complexed with anions such as phosphate. There- One of the most important regulators of bone uptake fore, only about 60% of the plasma calcium is filtered and release of calcium is PTH. When extracellular fluid at the glomerulus. Normally, about 99% of the filtered calcium concentration falls below normal, activity of calcium is reabsorbed by the tubules, with only about calcium- sensing receptors (CSRs) on the cell membrane of 1% of the filtered calcium being excreted. About 65% the parathyroid glands is reduced, promoting increased of the filtered calcium is reabsorbed in the proximal secretion of PTH. This hormone then acts directly on the tubule, 25% to 30% is reabsorbed in the loop of Henle, bones to increase resorption of bone salts (release of salts and 4% to 9% is reabsorbed in the distal and collecting from the bones) and release large amounts of calcium tubules. This pattern of reabsorption is similar to that into the extracellular fluid, thereby returning calcium for sodium. 390 Chapter 30 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium Renal Tubular membrane. The mechanism for this active transport is interstitial Proximal tubular cells lumen similar to that in the proximal tubule and thick ascending fluid Ca2+ limb. It involves diffusion across the luminal membrane through calcium channels and exit across the basolat- H 2O eral membrane by a calcium- ATPase pump, as well as a Ca2+ sodium- calcium counter- transport mechanism. In this ATP Ca2+ segment, as well as in the loops of Henle, PTH stimulates calcium reabsorption. Vitamin D (calcitriol) and calci- tonin also stimulate calcium reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of Henle’s loop and in the distal tubule, 3 Na+ although these hormones are not as important quantita- Ca2+ tively as PTH in reducing renal calcium excretion. Ca2+ Regulation of Tubular Calcium Reabsorption. One of the primary controllers of renal tubular calcium reabsorp- H O 2 tion is PTH. Increased levels of PTH stimulate calcium reabsorption in the thick ascending loops of Henle and Figure 30-12. Mechanisms of calcium reabsorption by paracellular distal tubules, which reduces urinary excretion of calci- and transcellular pathways in the proximal tubular cells. um. Conversely, reduction of PTH promotes calcium ex-
