Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Mechanisms of calcium reabsorption by paracellular distal tubules, which reduces urinary excretion of calci- and transcellular pathways in the proximal tubular cells. um. Conversely, reduction of PTH promotes calcium ex- cretion by decreasing reabsorption in the loops of Henle As is true with the other ions, calcium excretion is and distal tubules. adjusted to meet the body’s needs. With an increase in cal- Increased extracellular fluid calcium ion concentra- cium intake, there is also increased renal calcium excre- tion also directly stimulates CSRs, which inhibit calcium tion, although much of the increase of calcium intake is reabsorption in the thick ascending loops of Henle. Con- eliminated in the feces. With calcium depletion, calcium versely, reductions in calcium concentration decrease excretion by the kidneys decreases as a result of enhanced CSR activity and increase calcium reabsorption in the tubular reabsorption. thick ascending loop of Henle. In the proximal tubule, calcium reabsorption usually Proximal Tubular Calcium Reabsorption. Most of parallels sodium and water reabsorption and is indepen- the calcium reabsorption in the proximal tubule occurs dent of PTH. Therefore, in cases of extracellular volume through the paracellular pathway; it is dissolved in water expansion or increased arterial pressure—both of which and carried with the reabsorbed fluid as it flows between decrease proximal sodium and water reabsorption—there the cells. Only about 20% of proximal tubular calcium re- is also reduction in calcium reabsorption and, conse- absorption occurs through the transcellular pathway in quently, increased urinary calcium excretion. Conversely, two steps; with reduced extracellular volume or decreased blood 1. Calcium diffuses from the tubular lumen into the pressure, calcium excretion decreases primarily because cell down an electrochemical gradient due to the of increased proximal tubular reabsorption. much higher concentration of calcium in the tubu- Another factor that influences calcium reabsorption is lar lumen, compared with the epithelial cell cyto- the plasma concentration of phosphate. Increased plasma plasm, and because the cell interior has a negative phosphate stimulates PTH, which increases calcium reab- charge relative to the tubular lumen. sorption by the renal tubules, thereby reducing calcium 2. Calcium exits the cell across the basolateral mem- excretion. The opposite occurs with a reduction in plasma brane by a calcium-A TPase pump and by the sodium- phosphate concentration. calcium counter- transporter (Figure 30- 12). Calcium reabsorption is also stimulated by metabolic alkalosis and inhibited by metabolic acidosis. Thus, acido- Loop of Henle and Distal Tubule Calcium
