Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


phosphate concentration. calcium counter- transporter (Figure 30- 12). Calcium reabsorption is also stimulated by metabolic alkalosis and inhibited by metabolic acidosis. Thus, acido- Loop of Henle and Distal Tubule Calcium Reabsorp- sis tends to increase calcium excretion, whereas alkalosis tion. In the loop of Henle, calcium reabsorption is re- tends to reduce calcium excretion. Most of the effect of stricted to the thick ascending limb. Approximately 50% hydrogen ion concentration on calcium excretion results of calcium reabsorption in the thick ascending limb oc- from changes in calcium reabsorption in the distal tubule. curs through the paracellular route by passive diffusion A summary of the factors known to influence calcium due to the slight positive charge of the tubular lumen rela- excretion is shown in Table 30- 2. tive to the interstitial fluid. The remaining 50% of calcium reabsorption in the thick ascending limb occurs through REGULATION OF RENAL PHOSPHATE the transcellular pathway, a process that is stimulated by EXCRETION PTH. In the distal tubule, calcium reabsorption occurs Phosphate excretion by the kidneys is controlled primarily by almost entirely by active transport through the cell an overflow mechanism that can be explained as follows. The 391 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Table 30- 2 Factors That Alter Renal Calcium Table 30- 3 Factors That Alter Renal Phosphate Excretion Excretion ↓ Calcium Excretion ↑ Calcium Excretion ↓ Phosphate Excretion ↑ Phosphate Excretion ↑ Parathyroid hormone ↓ Parathyroid hormone ↓ Dietary phosphate ↑ Dietary phosphate ↓ Extracellular fluid volume ↑ Extracellular fluid volume 1,25- Vitamin D 3 Parathyroid hormone Metabolic alkalosis Metabolic acidosis ↓ Blood pressure ↑ Blood pressure Thyroid hormone Hypertension ↑ Plasma phosphate ↓ Plasma phosphate concentration concentration Metabolic alkalosis Metabolic acidosis Table 30- 3 summarizes some of the factors that influ- 1,25- Vitamin D ence renal phosphate excretion. 3 REGULATION OF RENAL MAGNESIUM renal tubules have a normal transport maximum for reab- EXCRETION AND EXTRACELLULAR sorbing phosphate of about 0.1 mmol/min. When less than MAGNESIUM ION CONCENTRATION this amount of phosphate is present in the glomerular filtrate, essentially all the filtered phosphate is reabsorbed. When More than half of the body’s magnesium is stored in the more than this amount is present, the excess is excreted. bones. Most of the rest is within the cells, with less than Therefore, phosphate normally begins to spill into the urine 1% located in the extracellular fluid. Although the total
