Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


bones. Most of the rest is within the cells, with less than Therefore, phosphate normally begins to spill into the urine 1% located in the extracellular fluid. Although the total when its concentration in the extracellular fluid rises above plasma magnesium concentration is about 1.8 mEq/L, a threshold of about 0.8 mM/L, which gives a tubular load more than half of this is bound to plasma proteins. There- of phosphate of about 0.1 mmol/min, assuming a GFR of fore, the free ionized concentration of magnesium is only 125 ml/min. Because most people ingest large quantities of about 0.8 mEq/L. phosphate in milk products and meat, the concentration of The normal daily intake of magnesium is about 250 to phosphate is usually maintained above 1 mM/L; at this level, 300 mg/day, but only about half of this intake is absorbed there is continual excretion of phosphate into the urine. by the gastrointestinal tract. To maintain magnesium bal- The proximal tubule normally reabsorbs 75% to 80% ance, the kidneys must excrete this absorbed magnesium, of the filtered phosphate. The distal tubule reabsorbs about half the daily intake of magnesium, or 125 to 150 about 10% of the filtered load, and only small amounts are mg/day. The kidneys normally excrete about 10% to 15% reabsorbed in the loop of Henle, collecting tubules, and of the magnesium in the glomerular filtrate. collecting ducts. Approximately 10% of the filtered phos- Renal excretion of magnesium can increase mark- phate is excreted in the urine. edly during magnesium excess or decrease to almost In the proximal tubule, phosphate reabsorption occurs zero during magnesium depletion. Because magnesium mainly through the transcellular pathway. Phosphate is involved in many biochemical processes in the body, enters the cell from the lumen by a sodium- phosphate co- including activation of many enzymes, its concentration transporter and exits the cell across the basolateral mem- must be closely regulated. brane by a process that is not well understood but may Regulation of magnesium excretion is achieved mainly involve a counter- transport mechanism in which phos- by changing tubular reabsorption. The proximal tubule phate is exchanged for an anion. usually reabsorbs only about 25% of the filtered mag- Changes in tubular phosphate reabsorptive capability nesium. The primary site of reabsorption is the loop of can also occur in different conditions and influence phos- Henle, where about 65% of the filtered load of magnesium phate excretion.
