Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The primary site of reabsorption is the loop of can also occur in different conditions and influence phos- Henle, where about 65% of the filtered load of magnesium phate excretion. For example, a diet low in phosphate can, is reabsorbed. Only a small amount (usually <5%) of fil- over time, increase the reabsorptive transport maximum tered magnesium is reabsorbed in the distal and collect- for phosphate, thereby reducing the tendency for phos- ing tubules. phate to spill over into the urine. The mechanisms that regulate magnesium reabsorp- PTH can play a significant role in regulating phosphate tion are not well understood, but Table 30- 4 summarizes concentration through two effects: (1) PTH promotes some of the factors that influence renal magnesium excre- bone resorption, thereby releasing large amounts of phos- tion. Note that several factors that alter renal calcium phate into the extracellular fluid from the bone salts; and excretion have similar effects on magnesium excretion. (2) PTH decreases the abundance of sodium- phosphate co- transporters in the apical membrane, which in turn INTEGRATION OF RENAL reduces phosphate reabsorption by the renal tubules. Thus, MECHANISMS FOR CONTROL OF whenever plasma PTH is increased, tubular phosphate EXTRACELLULAR FLUID reabsorption is decreased, and more phosphate is excreted. These interrelationships among phosphate, PTH, and cal- Extracellular fluid volume is determined mainly by the cium are discussed in more detail in Chapter 80. balance between intake and output of water and salt. In 392 Chapter 30 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium Table 30- 4 Factors That Alter Renal Magnesium blood pressure that, in turn, helps maintain normal Excretion sodium excretion. Over the long term, the high blood pressure may injure the blood vessels, heart, and other ↓ Magnesium Excretion ↑ Magnesium Excretion organs. These compensations, however, are necessary ↓ Extracellular Mg2+ ↑ Extracellular Mg2+ because a sustained imbalance between fluid and elec- concentration concentration trolyte intake and excretion would quickly lead to accu- ↓ Extracellular Ca2+ ↑ Extracellular Ca2+ mulation or loss of electrolytes and fluid, causing severe concentration concentration. cardiovascular consequences within a few days. Thus, one ↑ Parathyroid hormone ↓ Parathyroid hormone can view the systemic adjustments that occur in response to abnormalities of kidney function as a necessary trade- ↓ Extracellular fluid volume ↑ Extracellular fluid volume off that brings electrolyte and fluid excretion back into Metabolic alkalosis Metabolic acidosis balance with intake. many cases, salt and fluid
