Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


trade- ↓ Extracellular fluid volume ↑ Extracellular fluid volume off that brings electrolyte and fluid excretion back into Metabolic alkalosis Metabolic acidosis balance with intake. many cases, salt and fluid intakes are dictated by a person’s SODIUM EXCRETION IS CONTROLLED BY habits rather than by physiological control mechanisms. ALTERING GLOMERULAR FILTRATION OR Therefore, the burden of extracellular volume regulation TUBULAR SODIUM REABSORPTION RATES is often placed on the kidneys, which must adapt their excretion of salt and water to match intake under steady- The two variables that influence sodium and water excre- state conditions. tion are the rates of glomerular filtration and tubular In discussing the regulation of extracellular fluid vol- reabsorption: ume, we consider the factors that control the amount of Excretion = Glomerularfiltration−Tubularreabsorption sodium chloride in the extracellular fluid because changes in extracellular fluid sodium chloride content usually The GFR normally is about 180 L/day, tubular reab- cause parallel changes in extracellular fluid volume, pro- sorption is 178.5 L/day, and urine excretion is 1.5 L/ vided the antidiuretic hormone (ADH)–thirst mecha- day. Thus, small changes in GFR or tubular reabsorp- nisms are operative. When the ADH- thirst mechanisms tion potentially can cause large changes in renal excre- are functioning normally, a change in extracellular fluid tion. For example, a 5% increase in GFR (to 189 L/day) sodium chloride content is usually matched by a similar would cause a 9- L/day increase in urine volume if tubu- change in the amount of extracellular water, and thus lar compensations did not occur; this increase would maintenance of osmolality and sodium concentration is quickly cause catastrophic changes in body fluid vol- relatively constant. umes. Similarly, small changes in tubular reabsorption, in the absence of compensatory adjustments of GFR, SODIUM INTAKE AND EXCRETION ARE would also lead to dramatic changes in urine volume and BALANCED UNDER STEADY- STATE sodium excretion. Tubular reabsorption and the GFR CONDITIONS usually are regulated precisely in parallel, so that excre- tion by the kidneys can be exactly matched to the intake An important consideration in overall control of sodium of water and electrolytes. excretion—or excretion of most electrolytes, for that mat- Even with disturbances that alter GFR or tubular reab- ter—is that under steady- state conditions, excretion by sorption, changes in urinary excretion are minimized by the kidneys is determined by intake. To maintain life, a various buffering mechanisms. For example, if the kid- person must, over
