Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


by sorption, changes in urinary excretion are minimized by the kidneys is determined by intake. To maintain life, a various buffering mechanisms. For example, if the kid- person must, over the long term, excrete almost precisely neys become greatly vasodilated, and GFR increases (as the amount of sodium ingested. Therefore, even with dis- can occur with certain drugs or high fever), this condi- turbances that cause major changes in kidney function, tion raises sodium chloride delivery to the tubules, which balance between intake and output of sodium usually is in turn leads to at least two intrarenal compensations: restored within a few days. (1) increased tubular reabsorption of much of the extra If disturbances of kidney function are not too severe, sodium chloride filtered, called glomerulotubular bal- sodium balance may be achieved mainly by intrarenal ance; and (2) macula densa feedback, in which increased adjustments, with minimal changes in the extracellular sodium chloride delivery to the distal tubule causes affer- fluid volume or other systemic adjustments. However, ent arteriolar constriction and return of GFR toward nor- when perturbations to the kidneys are severe, and intra- mal. Likewise, abnormalities of tubular reabsorption in renal compensations are exhausted, systemic adjustments the proximal tubule or loop of Henle are partially com- are often invoked, such as changes in blood pressure, circu- pensated for by these same intrarenal feedbacks, as dis- lating hormones, and sympathetic nervous system activity. cussed in Chapter 27. These adjustments can be costly in terms of overall Because neither of these two mechanisms operates homeostasis because they cause other changes through- perfectly to restore distal sodium chloride delivery all the out the body that may, in the long run, be damaging. For way back to normal, changes in GFR or tubular reabsorp- example, impaired kidney function may lead to increased tion can lead to significant changes in urine sodium and 393 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys 8 renal tubular reabsorption of sodium, thereby amplifying the direct effects of increased blood pressure to increase Chronic sodium and water excretion. 6 PRESSURE NATRIURESIS AND DIURESIS: 4 Acute KEY COMPONENTS OF A RENAL–BODY FLUID FEEDBACK FOR REGULATING 2 BODY FLUID VOLUMES AND ARTERIAL PRESSURE 0 The effect of increased blood pressure to raise urine out- 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 put is part of a powerful feedback system that operates AArrtteerriiaall pprreessssuurree ((mmmm
