Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood pressure to raise urine out- 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 put is part of a powerful feedback system that operates AArrtteerriiaall pprreessssuurree ((mmmm HHgg)) to maintain balance between fluid intake and output, Figure 30-13. Acute and chronic effects of arterial pressure on so- dium output by the kidneys (pressure natriuresis). Note that chronic as shown in Figure 30- 14. This mechanism is the same increases in arterial pressure cause much greater increases in sodium mechanism discussed in Chapter 19 for arterial pressure output than those measured during acute increases in arterial pres- control. The extracellular fluid volume, blood volume, sure. cardiac output, arterial pressure, and urine output are all controlled at the same time as separate parts of this basic water excretion. When this occurs, other feedback mech- feedback mechanism. anisms may come into play, such as changes in blood During changes in sodium and fluid intake, this pressure and various hormones; these mechanisms even- feedback mechanism helps maintain fluid balance and tually return sodium excretion to equal sodium intake. In minimizes changes in blood volume, extracellular fluid the next few sections, we review how these mechanisms volume, and arterial pressure as follows: operate together to control sodium and water balance 1. An increase in fluid intake (assuming that sodium and, in so doing, also act to control extracellular fluid accompanies the fluid intake) above the level of volume. All these feedback mechanisms control renal urine output causes a temporary accumulation of excretion of sodium and water by altering GFR or tubular fluid in the body. reabsorption. 2. As long as fluid intake exceeds urine output, fluid accumulates in the blood and interstitial spaces, IMPORTANCE OF PRESSURE causing parallel increases in blood volume and ex- NATRIURESIS AND PRESSURE DIURESIS tracellular fluid volume. As discussed later, the ac- IN MAINTAINING BODY SODIUM AND tual increases in these variables are usually small FLUID BALANCE because of the effectiveness of this feedback. 3. An increase in blood volume raises mean circula- One of the most basic and powerful mechanisms for main- tory filling pressure. taining sodium and fluid balance, as well as for controlling 4. An increase in mean circulatory filling pressure blood volume and extracellular fluid volume, is the effect raises the pressure gradient for venous return. of blood pressure on sodium and water excretion—the 5. An increased pressure gradient for venous return pressure natriuresis
