Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fluid volume, is the effect raises the pressure gradient for venous return. of blood pressure on sodium and water excretion—the 5. An increased pressure gradient for venous return pressure natriuresis and pressure diuresis mechanisms, elevates cardiac output. respectively. As discussed in Chapter 19, this feedback 6. An increased cardiac output raises arterial pres- also plays a dominant role in long- term blood pressure sure. regulation. 7. An increased arterial pressure increases urine out- Figure 30- 13 shows the effect of arterial pressure put by way of pressure diuresis. The steepness of the on urinary sodium output. Note that acute increases in normal pressure natriuresis relationship indicates blood pressure of 30 to 50 mm Hg cause a twofold to that only a slight increase in blood pressure is re- threefold increase in urinary sodium output. This effect quired to raise urinary excretion severalfold. is independent of changes in activity of the sympathetic 8. The increased fluid excretion balances the in- nervous system or of various hormones, such as angio- creased intake, and further accumulation of fluid is tensin II (Ang II), ADH, or aldosterone, because pressure prevented. natriuresis can be demonstrated in an isolated kidney that Thus, the renal–body fluid feedback mechanism oper- has been removed from the influence of these factors. ates to prevent continuous accumulation of salt and water With chronic increases in blood pressure, the effective- in the body during increased salt and water intake. As ness of pressure natriuresis is greatly enhanced because long as the kidneys and various nervous and hormonal the increased blood pressure also, after a short time delay, mechanisms are operating effectively, large changes in suppresses renin release and, therefore, decreases the salt and water intake can be accommodated with minimal formation of Ang II and aldosterone. As discussed previ- changes in blood volume, extracellular fluid volume, car- ously, decreased levels of Ang II and aldosterone inhibit diac output, and arterial pressure. 394 emulov ro muidos yranirU )lamron ×( tuptuo Chapter 30 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium Nonrenal Fluid fluid loss intake Arterial Rate of change of Extracellular pressure extracellular fluid volume fluid volume Total peripheral Arterial pressure Blood resistance volume Cardiac Venous Mean circulatory output return filling pressure Heart strength Vascular capacity Figure 30-14. The basic renal–body fluid feedback mechanism for control of blood volume, extracellular fluid volume, and arterial pressure. Solid lines indicate positive effects; dashed lines indicate
