Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


strength Vascular capacity Figure 30-14. The basic renal–body fluid feedback mechanism for control of blood volume, extracellular fluid volume, and arterial pressure. Solid lines indicate positive effects; dashed lines indicate negative effects. 6 raise sodium excretion to match increased sodium intake, Blood volume even without measurable increases in cardiac output or 5 Normal range arterial pressure in many persons. Other individuals who 4 are more “salt- sensitive” have significant increases in arte- Death rial pressure with even moderate increases in sodium 3 intake. With prolonged high- sodium intake, lasting over several years, high blood pressure may occur, even in 2 persons who are not initially salt- sensitive. When blood 1 pressure does rise, pressure natriuresis provides a critical means of maintaining balance between sodium intake and 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 urinary sodium excretion. Daily fluid intake (water and electrolytes) (L/day) EFFECTIVENESS OF BLOOD VOLUME Figure 30-15. Approximate effect of changes in daily fluid intake on AND EXTRACELLULAR FLUID VOLUME blood volume. Note that blood volume remains relatively constant in REGULATION the normal range of daily fluid intakes. By studying Figure 30- 14, one can see the main rea- The opposite sequence of events occurs when fluid sons that blood volume remains almost exactly constant, intake falls below normal. In this case, there is a tendency despite extreme changes in daily fluid intake: (1) a slight toward decreased blood volume and extracellular fluid change in blood volume causes a marked change in car- volume, as well as reduced arterial pressure. Even a small diac output; (2) a slight change in cardiac output causes decrease in blood pressure causes a large decrease in a large change in blood pressure; and (3) a slight change urine output, thereby allowing fluid balance to be main- in blood pressure causes a large change in urine output. tained, with minimal changes in blood pressure, blood These factors work together to provide effective feedback volume, or extracellular fluid volume. The effectiveness control of blood volume. of this mechanism in preventing large changes in blood The same control mechanisms operate whenever there volume is demonstrated in Figure 30- 15, which shows is blood loss because of hemorrhage. In this case, a fall that changes in blood volume are almost imperceptible, in blood pressure along with nervous and hormonal fac- despite large variations in daily intake of water and elec- tors (discussed later)
