Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that changes in blood volume are almost imperceptible, in blood pressure along with nervous and hormonal fac- despite large variations in daily intake of water and elec- tors (discussed later) cause fluid retention by the kidneys. trolytes, except when intake becomes so low that it is not Other parallel processes occur to reconstitute the red sufficient to make up for fluid losses caused by evapora- blood cells and plasma proteins in the blood. If abnormal- tion or other inescapable losses. ities of red blood cell volume remain, such as when there As discussed later, there are nervous and hormonal is deficiency of erythropoietin or other factors needed to systems, in addition to intrarenal mechanisms, that can stimulate red blood cell production, the plasma volume 395 )sretil( emulov doolB diulf laneR noitercxe UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys 8 Edema the tissue interstitial spaces become compliant, and large 7 amounts of fluid then pour into the tissues without the interstitial fluid pressure rising much more. In other 6 words, the safety factor against edema, owing to a rising 5 NNoorrmmaall vvaalluuee interstitial fluid pressure that counteracts fluid accumula- 4 tion in the tissues, is lost once the tissues become highly 3 Death compliant. Thus, under normal conditions, the interstitial spaces 2 act as an overflow reservoir for excess fluid, sometimes 1 increasing in volume 10 to 30 liters. This situation causes 0 edema, as explained in Chapter 25, but it also acts as an 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 important overflow release valve for the circulation, pro- EExxttrraacceelllluullaarr fflluuiidd vvoolluummee ((lliitteerrss)) tecting the cardiovascular system against a dangerous Figure 30-16. Approximate relationship between extracellular fluid overload that could lead to pulmonary edema and cardiac volume and blood volume, showing a nearly linear relationship in failure. the normal range but also showing the failure of blood volume to To summarize, extracellular fluid volume and blood continue to increase when the extracellular fluid volume becomes ex- cessive. When this condition occurs, the additional extracellular fluid volume are often controlled simultaneously, but the quan- volume resides in the interstitial spaces, and edema results. titative amounts of fluid distribution between the inter- stitium and the blood depend on the physical properties will usually make up the difference, and the overall blood of the circulation and the interstitial spaces, as well as volume will return essentially to normal, despite
