Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the physical properties will usually make up the difference, and the overall blood of the circulation and the interstitial spaces, as well as volume will return essentially to normal, despite the low on the dynamics of fluid exchange through the capillary red blood cell mass. membranes. DISTRIBUTION OF EXTRACELLULAR NERVOUS AND HORMONAL FACTORS FLUID BETWEEN INTERSTITIAL SPACES INCREASE EFFECTIVENESS OF RENAL– AND VASCULAR SYSTEM BODY FLUID FEEDBACK CONTROL From Figure 30- 14 it is apparent that blood volume and In Chapters 27 and 28, we discuss the nervous and hor- extracellular fluid volume are usually controlled in paral- monal factors that influence GFR and tubular reabsorp- lel with each other. Ingested fluid initially goes into the tion and, therefore, renal excretion of salt and water. blood, but it rapidly becomes distributed between the These nervous and hormonal mechanisms usually act interstitial spaces and the plasma. Therefore, blood vol- together with the pressure natriuresis and pressure diure- ume and extracellular fluid volume usually are controlled sis mechanisms, making them more effective in mini- simultaneously. mizing the changes in blood volume, extracellular fluid There are circumstances, however, in which the dis- volume, and arterial pressure that occur in response to tribution of extracellular fluid between the interstitial daily challenges. In many cases, nervous and hormonal spaces and blood can vary greatly. As discussed in Chap- mechanisms can regulate renal sodium and water excre- ter 25, the principal factors that can cause accumulation tion and maintain balance between intake and output of fluid in the interstitial spaces include the following: (1) without significant changes in blood pressure. However, increased capillary hydrostatic pressure; (2) decreased abnormalities of kidney function or of the various ner- plasma colloid osmotic pressure; (3) increased permeabil- vous and hormonal factors that influence the kidneys can ity of the capillaries; and (4) obstruction of lymphatic ves- lead to serious changes in blood pressure and body fluid sels. In all these conditions, an unusually high proportion volumes, as discussed later. of the extracellular fluid becomes distributed to the inter- stitial spaces. SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM Figure 30- 16 shows the normal distribution of fluid CONTROL OF RENAL EXCRETION: between the interstitial spaces and vascular system and ARTERIAL BARORECEPTOR AND LOW- the distribution that occurs in edema states. When small PRESSURE STRETCH RECEPTOR REFLEXES amounts of fluid accumulate in the blood as a result of too much fluid intake or a decrease in
