Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that occurs in edema states. When small PRESSURE STRETCH RECEPTOR REFLEXES amounts of fluid accumulate in the blood as a result of too much fluid intake or a decrease in renal output of fluid, Because the kidneys receive extensive sympathetic inner- about 20% to 30% of it stays in the blood and increases vation, changes in sympathetic activity can alter renal the blood volume. The remainder is distributed to the sodium and water excretion, as well as regulation of extra- interstitial spaces. When the extracellular fluid volume cellular fluid volume under some conditions. For example, rises more than 30% to 50% above normal, almost all the when blood volume is reduced by hemorrhage, pressures additional fluid goes into the interstitial spaces, and little in the pulmonary blood vessels and other low- pressure remains in the blood. Once the interstitial fluid pressure regions of the thorax decrease, causing reflex activation of rises from its normally negative value to become positive, the sympathetic nervous system. This, in turn, increases 396 )sretil( emulov doolB Chapter 30 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium renal sympathetic nerve activity, which has several effects 12 to decrease sodium and water excretion: (1) constriction 10 of the renal arterioles, which decreases GFR if the sympa- Angiotensin blockade 8 thetic activation is severe; (2) increased tubular reabsorp- Normal tion of salt and water; and (3) stimulation of renin release 6 and increased Ang II and aldosterone formation, both of 4 which further increase tubular reabsorption. If the reduc- tion in blood volume is great enough to lower systemic 2 High angiotensin II arterial pressure, further activation of the sympathetic nervous system occurs because of decreased stretch of 0 60 80 100 120 140 160 the arterial baroreceptors located in the carotid sinus and Arterial pressure (mm Hg) aortic arch. All these reflexes together play an important Figure 30-17. Effects of excessive angiotensin II (Ang II) formation role in the rapid restitution of blood volume that occurs in or blocking Ang II formation on the renal-p ressure natriuresis curve. acute conditions such as hemorrhage. Also, reflex inhibi- Note that high levels of Ang II formation decrease the slope of pres- sure natriuresis, making blood pressure very sensitive to changes in tion of renal sympathetic activity may contribute to the sodium intake. Blockade of Ang II formation shifts pressure natriure- rapid elimination of excess fluid in the circulation that
