Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


changes in tion of renal sympathetic activity may contribute to the sodium intake. Blockade of Ang II formation shifts pressure natriure- rapid elimination of excess fluid in the circulation that sis to lower blood pressures. occurs after eating a meal that contains large amounts of salt and water. Excessive and inappropriate activation of the sympa- and Figure 30-17. Note that when the angiotensin thetic nervous system, however, can lead to a cascade of control of natriuresis is fully functional, the pressure effects, including increases in renin secretion, Ang II for- natriuresis curve is steep (normal curve), indicating mation, and renal sodium reabsorption that elevate blood that increases in sodium excretion can be achieved pressure. In fact, ablation of the renal sympathetic nerves when the sodium intake is raised with minimal chang- often lowers arterial pressure in hypertension, especially es in arterial pressure. when associated with obesity. In contrast, when Ang II levels cannot be sup- pressed in response to increased sodium intake (high ROLE OF ANGIOTENSIN II IN angiotensin II curve), as occurs in some hypertensive CONTROLLING RENAL EXCRETION patients who have an impaired ability to decrease renin secretion and Ang II formation, the pressure One of the body’s most powerful controllers of sodium natriuresis curve is not nearly as steep. Therefore, excretion is Ang II. Changes in sodium intake are asso- when sodium intake is raised, much greater increases ciated with reciprocal changes in Ang II formation, and in arterial pressure are necessary to increase sodium this in turn contributes greatly to the maintenance of excretion and maintain sodium balance. For example, body sodium balances. When sodium intake is elevated in most people, a 10- fold increase in sodium intake above normal, renin secretion and Ang II formation causes an increase of only a few mm of Hg in arte- decrease. Because Ang II has several important effects to rial pressure, whereas in subjects who cannot suppress increase tubular reabsorption of sodium, as explained in Ang II formation appropriately in response to excess Chapter 28, a reduced level of Ang II decreases tubular sodium, the same rise in sodium intake causes blood reabsorption of sodium and water, thus increasing renal pressure to rise by as much as 50 mm Hg. Thus, the excretion of sodium and water. The net result is to mini- inability to suppress Ang II formation when there is mize the rise in extracellular fluid volume
