Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Hg. Thus, the excretion of sodium and water. The net result is to mini- inability to suppress Ang II formation when there is mize the rise in extracellular fluid volume and arterial excess sodium reduces the slope of pressure natriure- pressure that would otherwise occur when sodium intake sis and makes arterial pressure very salt- sensitive, as increases. discussed in Chapter 19. Conversely, when sodium intake decreases below nor- The use of drugs to block the effects of Ang II has mal, increased levels of Ang II cause sodium and water proved to be important clinically for improving the retention and oppose reductions in arterial blood pres- kidneys’ ability to excrete salt and water. When Ang II sure that would otherwise occur. Thus, changes in activity formation is blocked with an angiotensin- converting of the renin- angiotensin system act as a powerful regula- enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (see Figures 19-1 3 and 30- tor of sodium excretion and as an amplifier of the pres- 17) or an Ang II receptor antagonist, the renal- pressure sure natriuresis mechanism for maintaining stable blood natriuresis curve is shifted to lower pressures, which pressures and body fluid volumes. indicates an enhanced ability of the kidneys to excrete sodium because normal levels of sodium excretion can Importance of Changes in Angiotensin II in Reg- now be maintained at reduced arterial pressures. This ulating Sodium Balance and Altering Pressure shift of pressure natriuresis provides the basis for the Natriuresis. The importance of Ang II in regulating chronic blood pressure–lowering effects of the ACE sodium balance and making the pressure natriuresis inhibitors and Ang II receptor antagonists in hyperten- mechanism more effective is shown in Figure 19-1 3 sive patients. 397 tuptuo dna ekatni muidoS )lamron ×( UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Excessive Angiotensin II Does Not Usually Cause During Chronic Oversecretion of Aldosterone, the Large Increases in Extracellular Fluid Volume Because Kidneys Escape From Sodium Retention as Arterial Pres- Increased Arterial Pressure Counterbalances Angioten- sure Rises. Although aldosterone has powerful effects on sin II– Mediated Sodium Retention. Although Ang II is sodium reabsorption, when there is excessive formation of one of the most powerful sodium- and water- retaining aldosterone, as occurs in patients with tumors of the ad- hormones in the body, neither a decrease nor increase in renal gland (Conn syndrome), the increased sodium reab- circulating Ang II has a large effect
