Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


drink large amounts of to raise arterial pressure enough to overcome the sodium- water to balance the increased urine output of salt and retaining effects of high levels of Ang II; in these cases, Ang water. II may cause large amounts of sodium and water retention that may progress to congestive heart failure. Blockade of Ang II formation may, in these cases, relieve some of the ROLE OF ANTIDIURETIC HORMONE IN sodium and water retention and attenuate the large expan- CONTROLLING RENAL WATER EXCRETION sion of extracellular fluid volume associated with heart fail- ure. As discussed in Chapter 29, ADH plays an important role in allowing the kidneys to form a small volume of concentrated urine while excreting normal amounts of salt. This effect is especially important during water ROLE OF ALDOSTERONE IN CONTROLLING deprivation, which strongly elevates plasma levels of RENAL EXCRETION ADH that, in turn, increase water reabsorption by the Aldosterone increases sodium reabsorption, especially in kidneys and help minimize the decreases in extracellular the collecting tubules and collecting ducts. The increased fluid volume and arterial pressure that would otherwise sodium reabsorption is also associated with increased occur. Water deprivation for 24 to 48 hours normally water reabsorption and potassium secretion. Therefore, causes only a small decrease in extracellular fluid volume the net effect of aldosterone is to make the kidneys retain and arterial pressure. However, if the effects of ADH are sodium and water and increase potassium excretion in blocked with a drug that antagonizes the action of ADH the urine. to promote water reabsorption in the distal and collect- The function of aldosterone in regulating sodium ing tubules, the same period of water deprivation causes balance is closely related to that described for Ang II. a substantial fall in extracellular fluid volume and arterial That is, with a reduction in sodium intake, increased pressure. Conversely, when there is excess extracellular Ang II levels stimulate secretion of aldosterone, which volume, decreased ADH levels reduce the reabsorption in turn contributes to the reduction in urinary sodium of water by the kidneys, thus helping rid the body of the excretion and, therefore, to maintenance of sodium excess volume. balance. Conversely, with high sodium intake, sup- Excess Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion Usually Causes pression of aldosterone formation decreases tubular Only Small Increases in Extracellular Fluid Volume but reabsorption, allowing the kidneys to excrete larger Large Decreases in Sodium Concentration. Although ADH
