Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Usually Causes pression of aldosterone formation decreases tubular Only Small Increases in Extracellular Fluid Volume but reabsorption, allowing the kidneys to excrete larger Large Decreases in Sodium Concentration. Although ADH amounts of sodium. Thus, changes in aldosterone for- is important in regulating extracellular fluid volume, ex- mation also aid the pressure natriuresis mechanism in cessive levels of ADH seldom cause large increases in ar- maintaining sodium balance during variations in salt terial pressure or extracellular fluid volume. Infusion of intake. large amounts of ADH into animals initially causes renal 398 Chapter 30 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium retention of water and a 10% to 15% increase in extracellu- INTEGRATED RESPONSES TO CHANGES lar fluid volume. As the arterial pressure rises in response IN SODIUM INTAKE to this increased volume, much of the excess volume is ex- creted because of the pressure diuresis mechanism. Also, The integration of different control systems that regulate the rise in blood pressure causes pressure natriuresis and sodium and fluid excretion under normal conditions can loss of sodium from the extracellular fluid. After several be summarized by examining the homeostatic responses days of ADH infusion, the blood volume and extracellular to progressive increases in dietary sodium intake. As noted fluid volume are elevated by no more than 5% to 10%, and previously, the kidneys have an amazing capability to match the arterial pressure is also elevated by less than 10 mm Hg. The same is true for patients with inappropriate ADH their excretion of salt and water to intakes, which can range syndrome, in which ADH levels may be elevated several- from as low as one tenth of normal to as high as 10 times fold. normal. Thus, high levels of ADH do not cause major increases of body fluid volume or arterial pressure, although high High Sodium Intake Suppresses Antinatriuretic Sys- ADH levels can cause severe reductions in extracellular so- tems and Activates Natriuretic Systems. As sodium dium ion concentration. The reason for this is that increased intake is increased, sodium output initially lags slightly water reabsorption by the kidneys dilutes the extracellular behind intake. The time delay results in a small increase in sodium and, at the same time, the small increase in blood the cumulative sodium balance, which causes a slight in- pressure that does occur causes loss of sodium from the crease in extracellular fluid volume. It is mainly
