Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


increase in blood the cumulative sodium balance, which causes a slight in- pressure that does occur causes loss of sodium from the crease in extracellular fluid volume. It is mainly this small extracellular fluid in the urine through pressure natriuresis. increase in extracellular fluid volume that triggers various In patients who have lost their ability to secrete ADH because of destruction of the supraoptic nuclei, the urine mechanisms in the body to increase sodium excretion. volume may become 5 to 10 times normal. This increase These mechanisms include the following: in volume is almost always compensated for by ingestion 1. Activation of low-p ressure receptor reflexes that origi- of enough water to maintain fluid balance. If free access to nate from the stretch receptors of the right atrium and water is prevented, the inability to secrete ADH may lead to the pulmonary blood vessels. Signals from the stretch marked reductions in blood volume and arterial pressure. receptors go to the brain stem and there inhibit sym- pathetic nerve activity to the kidneys to decrease tu- ROLE OF ATRIAL NATRIURETIC PEPTIDE IN bular sodium reabsorption. This mechanism is most CONTROLLING RENAL EXCRETION important in the first few hours—or perhaps the first day—after a large increase in salt and water intake. Thus far, we have discussed mainly the role of sodium- 2. Suppression of Ang II and aldosterone formation, and water-r etaining hormones in controlling extracel- caused by increased arterial pressure and extracellu- lular fluid volume. However, several different natriuretic lar fluid volume expansion, decreases tubular sodium hormones may also contribute to volume regulation. One reabsorption by eliminating the normal effect of Ang of the most important of these is a peptide referred to as II and aldosterone to increase sodium reabsorption. atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), released by the cardiac 3. Stimulation of natriuretic systems, especially ANP, atrial muscle fibers. A major stimulus for release of this contributes further to increased sodium excre- peptide is increased stretch of the atria, which can result tion. Thus, the combined activation of natriuretic from excess blood volume. Once released by the cardiac systems and suppression of sodium- and water- atria, ANP enters the circulation and acts on the kidneys retaining systems leads to an increase in sodium to cause small increases in GFR, decreases in renin secre- excretion when sodium intake is increased. The tion and Ang II formation, and reductions in sodium reab- opposite
