Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in sodium to cause small increases in GFR, decreases in renin secre- excretion when sodium intake is increased. The tion and Ang II formation, and reductions in sodium reab- opposite changes take place when sodium intake is sorption by the collecting ducts. These combined actions reduced below normal levels. of ANP lead to increased excretion of salt and water, which 4. Small increases in arterial pressure, caused by vol- helps compensate for the excess blood volume. ume expansion, may occur with large increases in Changes in ANP levels help minimize changes in blood sodium intake, especially in salt- sensitive individu- volume during various disturbances, such as increased als; this mechanism raises sodium excretion through salt and water intake. However, excessive production pressure natriuresis. As discussed previously, if the of ANP or even complete lack of ANP does not cause nervous, hormonal, and intrarenal mechanisms are major changes in blood volume because these effects can operating effectively, measurable increases in blood be overcome by small changes in blood pressure, acting pressure may not occur, even with large increases through pressure natriuresis. For example, infusions of in sodium intake over several days. However, when large amounts of ANP initially raise urine output of salt high sodium intake is sustained for months or years, and water and cause slight decreases in blood volume. the kidneys may become damaged and less effective In less than 24 hours, this effect is overcome by a slight in excreting sodium, necessitating increased blood decrease in blood pressure that returns urine output pressure to maintain sodium balance through the toward normal, despite continued excess of ANP. pressure natriuresis mechanism. 399 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys CONDITIONS THAT CAUSE LARGE During pregnancy, increased vascular capacity of the INCREASES IN BLOOD VOLUME AND uterus, placenta, and other enlarged organs of the wom- EXTRACELLULAR FLUID VOLUME an’s body generally increases blood volume by 15% to 25%. Similarly, in patients who have large varicose veins of the Despite the powerful regulatory mechanisms that main- legs, which in rare cases may hold up to an extra liter of tain blood volume and extracellular fluid volume reason- blood, the blood volume increases to fill the extra vascular ably constant, there are abnormal conditions that can capacity. In these cases, salt and water are retained by the cause large increases in both these variables. Almost all kidneys until the total vascular
