Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are abnormal conditions that can capacity. In these cases, salt and water are retained by the cause large increases in both these variables. Almost all kidneys until the total vascular bed is filled enough to raise these conditions result from circulatory abnormalities. blood pressure to the level required to balance renal output of fluid with daily intake of fluid. INCREASED BLOOD VOLUME AND EXTRACELLULAR FLUID VOLUME CAUSED CONDITIONS THAT CAUSE LARGE BY HEART DISEASES INCREASES IN EXTRACELLULAR FLUID VOLUME WITH NORMAL OR REDUCED In persons with congestive heart failure, blood volume BLOOD VOLUME may increase by 15% to 20%, and the extracellular fluid volume sometimes increases by 200% or more. The reason In several conditions, extracellular fluid volume becomes for these increases can be understood by re- examination markedly increased, but blood volume remains normal or of Figure 30- 14. Initially, heart failure reduces cardiac even slightly reduced. These conditions are usually initi- output and, consequently, decreases arterial pressure. ated by leakage of fluid and protein into the interstitium, This effect in turn activates multiple sodium-r etaining which tends to decrease the blood volume. The kidneys’ systems, especially the renin-a ngiotensin- aldosterone response to these conditions is similar to the response system (RAAS) and sympathetic nervous systems. In after hemorrhage—that is, the kidneys retain salt and addition, the low blood pressure itself causes the kidneys water in an attempt to restore blood volume toward nor- to retain salt and water. Therefore, the kidneys retain vol- mal. Much of the extra fluid, however, leaks into the inter- ume in an attempt to return the arterial pressure and car- stitium, causing further edema. diac output toward normal. If the heart failure is not too severe, the rise in blood NEPHROTIC SYNDROME—LOSS OF volume can often return cardiac output and arterial pres- PLASMA PROTEINS IN URINE AND sure virtually all the way to normal, and sodium excre- SODIUM RETENTION BY THE KIDNEYS tion will eventually increase back to normal, although increased extracellular fluid volume and blood volume The general mechanisms that lead to extracellular edema will remain to keep the weakened heart pumping ade- are reviewed in Chapter 25. An important clinical cause of quately. However, if the heart is greatly weakened, arterial edema is nephrotic syndrome. In nephrotic syndrome, the pressure may not be able to increase enough to restore glomerular capillaries leak large amounts of protein into the urine output to
