Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


edema is nephrotic syndrome. In nephrotic syndrome, the pressure may not be able to increase enough to restore glomerular capillaries leak large amounts of protein into the urine output to normal. When this situation occurs, the filtrate and urine because of increased glomerular capillary kidneys continue to retain volume until severe circulatory permeability. Thirty to 50 grams of plasma protein may be congestion develops, and the person may eventually die of lost in the urine each day, sometimes causing the plasma pulmonary edema unless corrective measures are taken. protein concentration to fall to less than one- third normal In myocardial failure, heart valvular disease, and con- and reducing plasma colloid osmotic pressure to low levels. genital abnormalities of the heart, increased blood volume This effect causes the capillaries all over the body to filter serves as an important circulatory compensation that large amounts of fluid into the various tissues, which in turn helps return cardiac output and blood pressure toward causes edema and decreases the plasma volume. normal. This compensation allows even the weakened Renal sodium retention in nephrotic syndrome occurs heart to maintain a life- sustaining level of cardiac output. through multiple mechanisms activated by leakage of protein and fluid from the plasma into the interstitial INCREASED BLOOD VOLUME CAUSED BY fluid, including stimulation of various sodium- retaining INCREASED VASCULAR CAPACITY systems, such as the RAAS and sympathetic nervous sys- tem. The kidneys continue to retain sodium and water Any condition that increases vascular capacity will also until plasma volume is restored nearly to normal. How- cause the blood volume to increase to fill this extra capac- ever, because of the large amount of sodium and water ity. An increase in vascular capacity initially reduces mean retention, the plasma protein concentration becomes fur- circulatory filling pressure (see Figure 30- 14), which leads ther diluted, causing still more fluid to leak into the tissues to decreased cardiac output and decreased arterial pres- of the body. The net result is massive fluid retention by sure. The fall in pressure causes salt and water retention the kidneys until tremendous extracellular edema occurs, by the kidneys until blood volume increases sufficiently to unless treatment is instituted to restore the plasma fill the extra capacity. proteins. 400 Chapter 30 Renal Regulation of Potassium, Calcium, Phosphate, and Magnesium Curry JN, Yu ASL: Magnesium handling in the kidney. Adv Chronic LIVER CIRRHOSIS—DECREASED Kidney Dis 25:236, 2018.
