Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


3 to achieve homeostasis. And, as is true for other ions, the A base is an ion or a molecule that can accept an kidneys play a key role in regulating H+ removal from the H+. For example, HCO − is a base because it can com- 3 body. However, precise control of extracellular fluid H+ bine with H+ to form H CO . Likewise, HPO = is a base 2 3 4 concentration involves much more than the simple elimi- because it can accept an H+ to form H PO −. The pro- 2 4 nation of H+ by the kidneys. Multiple acid–b ase buffer- teins in the body also function as bases because some of ing mechanisms involving the blood, cells, and lungs also the amino acids that make up proteins have net negative are essential in maintaining normal H+ concentrations in charges that readily accept H+. The protein hemoglobin extracellular and intracellular fluids. in the red blood cells and proteins in the other cells of In this chapter, we consider the mechanisms that regu- the body are among the most important of the body’s late H+ concentration, with special emphasis on renal H+ bases. secretion and renal reabsorption, production, and excre- The terms base and alkali are often used synony- tion of bicarbonate ions (HCO −), one of the key compo- mously. An alkali is a molecule formed by the combi- 3 nents of acid–base control systems in the body fluids. nation of one or more of the alkaline metals—such as sodium, potassium, and lithium—with a highly basic ion HYDROGEN ION CONCENTRATION IS such as a hydroxyl ion (OH−). The base portion of these PRECISELY REGULATED molecules reacts quickly with H+ to remove it from solu- tion and are, therefore, typical bases. For similar reasons, Precise H+ regulation is essential because the activities of the term alkalosis refers to the excess removal of H+ from almost all enzyme systems in the body are influenced by the body fluids, in contrast to the excess addition of H+, H+ concentration. Therefore, changes in H+ concentra- which is referred to as acidosis. tion alter virtually all cell and body functions. Compared with other ions, the H+ concentration Strong and Weak Acids and Bases. A strong acid, such of the body fluids normally is kept at a low level. For as HCl, rapidly dissociates and releases especially large example, the concentration
