Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Acids and Bases. A strong acid, such of the body fluids normally is kept at a low level. For as HCl, rapidly dissociates and releases especially large example, the concentration of sodium in extracellular amounts of H+ in solution. Weak acids such as H CO are 2 3 fluid (142 mEq/L) is about 3.5 million times as great as less likely to dissociate their ions and, therefore, release the normal concentration of H+, which averages only H+ with less vigor. A strong base is one that reacts rap- 0.00004 mEq/L. Equally important, the normal variation idly and strongly with H+ and, therefore, quickly removes in H+ concentration in extracellular fluid is only about H+ from a solution. A typical example is OH−, which re- one millionth as great as the normal variation in sodium acts with H+ to form water (H O). A typical weak base 2 ion (Na+) concentration. Thus, the precision with which is HCO − because it binds with H+ much more weakly 3 H+ is regulated emphasizes its importance to the various than OH−. Most acids and bases in the extracellular fluid cell functions. that are involved in normal acid– base regulation are weak acids and bases. The most important ones that we discuss ACIDS AND BASES—DEFINITIONS AND are carbonic acid (H 2CO 3) and HCO 3− base. MEANINGS Normal H+ Concentration and pH of Body Fluids and A hydrogen ion is a single free proton released from a Changes That Occur in Acidosis and Alkalosis. The hydrogen atom. Molecules containing hydrogen atoms blood H+ concentration is normally maintained with- that can release hydrogen ions in a solution are referred in tight limits around a normal value of about 0.00004 403 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys mEq/L (40 nEq/L). Normal variations are only about 3 to An extreme example of an acidic body fluid is the HCl 5 nEq/L but, under extreme conditions, the H+ concen- secreted into the stomach by the oxyntic (parietal) cells tration can vary from as low as 10 nEq/L to as high as 160 of the stomach mucosa, as discussed in Chapter 65. The nEq/L without resulting in death. H+ concentration in these cells is about 4 million times Because H+ concentration normally is low, and because greater than the hydrogen concentration in blood, with a these small numbers are cumbersome, it is customary to pH of
