Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


CO and, therefore, 2 pH rises above 7.4. The lower limit of pH at which a per- H CO from the body. 2 3 son can live more than a few hours is about 6.8, and the These first two lines of defense keep the H+ concen- upper limit is about 8.0. tration from changing too much until the more slowly Intracellular pH usually is slightly lower than plasma responding third line of defense, the kidneys, can elimi- pH because cell metabolism produces acid, especially nate the excess acid or base from the body. Although the H CO . Depending on the type of cells, the pH of intracel- kidneys are relatively slow to respond compared with the 2 3 lular fluid has been estimated to range between 6.0 and 7.4. other defenses, over a period of hours to several days, they Hypoxia of the tissues and poor blood flow to the tissues are by far the most powerful of the acid–base regulatory can cause acid accumulation and decreased intracellular systems. pH. The terms acidosis and alkalosis describe the pro- cesses that lead to acidemia and alkalemia, respectively. BUFFERING OF H+ IN THE BODY FLUIDS The pH of urine can range from 4.5 to 8.0, depend- ing on the acid–base status of the extracellular fluid. As A buffer is any substance that can reversibly bind H+. The discussed later, the kidneys play a major role in correcting general form of the buffering reaction is as follows: abnormalities of extracellular fluid H+ concentration by Buffer+H+←  →HBuffer excreting acids or bases at variable rates. In this example, a free H+ combines with the buffer to Table 31- 1 pH and H+ Concentration of Body Fluids form a weak acid (H buffer) that can either remain as an unassociated molecule or dissociate back to the buffer and H+ Concentration (mEq/L) pH H+. When the H+ concentration increases, the reaction is Extracellular Fluid forced to the right, and more H+ binds to the buffer, as • Arterial blood • 4.0 × 10−5 • 7.40 long as buffer is available. Conversely, when the H+ con- • Venous blood • 4.5 × 10−5 • 7.35 centration decreases, the reaction shifts toward the left, • Interstitial fluid • 4.5 × 10−5 • 7.35 and H+ is released from the buffer. In this way, changes in Intracellular fluid 1 × 10−3 to 4 × 10−5 6.0–7.4 H+
