Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


HCl is added to the bicar- amount of undissociated H CO . Therefore, Equation 2 can 2 3 bonate buffer solution, the increased H+ released from the be rewritten as follows: acid (HCl → H+ + Cl−) is buffered by HCO −: 3 CO H+ =K× 2 ↑H++HCO 3− →H 2CO 3→CO 2+H 2O HCO 3− (3) The dissociation constant (K) for Equation 3 is only As a result, more H 2CO 3 is formed, causing increased about 1/400 of the dissociation constant (K′) of Equation 2 CO 2 and H 2O production. From these reactions, one because the proportionality ratio between H 2CO 3 and CO 2 can see that H+ from the strong acid HCl reacts with is 1:400. 405 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Equation 3 is written in terms of the total amount of kidneys, whereas the Pco2 in extracellular fluid is con- CO dissolved in solution. However, most clinical labo- trolled by the rate of respiration. By increasing the rate 2 ratories measure the blood CO tension (Pco ) rather of respiration, the lungs remove CO from the plasma 2 2 2 than the actual amount of CO . Fortunately, the amount and, by decreasing respiration, the lungs elevate Pco . 2 2 of CO in the blood is a linear function of Pco multi- Normal physiological acid– base homeostasis results 2 2 plied by the solubility coefficient for CO ; under physi- from the coordinated efforts of both the lungs and kid- 2 ological conditions, the solubility coefficient for CO is neys, and acid–base disorders occur when one or both 2 0.03 mmol/mm Hg at body temperature. This means of these control mechanisms are impaired, thus altering that 0.03 millimole of H CO is present in the blood for either the HCO − concentration or Pco of extracellular 2 3 3 2 each mm Hg Pco measured. Therefore, Equation 3 can fluid. 2 be rewritten as When disturbances of acid–base balance result from a primary change in extracellular fluid HCO − concentra- 3 (0.03×Pco ) H+ =K× 2 tion, they are referred to as metabolic acid–base disorders. HCO 3− (4) Therefore, acidosis caused by a primary decrease in HCO 3− concentration is termed metabolic acidosis, whereas alka- Henderson- Hasselbalch Equation. As discussed earlier, losis caused by a primary increase in HCO − concentra- 3 it is customary to express the
