Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


concentration is termed metabolic acidosis, whereas alka- Henderson- Hasselbalch Equation. As discussed earlier, losis caused by a primary increase in HCO − concentra- 3 it is customary to express the H+ concentration in pH units tion is called metabolic alkalosis. Acidosis caused by an rather than in actual concentrations. Recall that pH = −log H+. increase in Pco is called respiratory acidosis, whereas 2 The dissociation constant (pK) can be expressed in a alkalosis caused by a decrease in Pco is termed respira- 2 similar manner. tory alkalosis. pK=−logK Bicarbonate Buffer System Titration Curve. Figure 31-1 shows the changes in pH of the extracellular fluid Therefore, we can express the H+ concentration in when the ratio of HCO 3− to CO 2 in extracellular fluid is al- Equation 4 in pH units by taking the negative logarithm of tered. When the concentrations of these two components that equation, which yields the following: are equal, the right- hand portion of Equation 8 becomes the log of 1, which is equal to 0. Therefore, when the two −logH+ =−log pK−log(0.03×Pco 2) components of the buffer system are equal, the pH of the HCO 3− solution is the same as the pK (6.1) of the bicarbonate (5) buffer system. When base is added to the system, part of the dissolved CO is converted into HCO −, causing an 2 3 Therefore, increase in the ratio of HCO − to CO and increasing the 3 2 (0.03×Pco ) pH, as is evident from the Henderson- Hasselbalch equa- pH=pK−log 2 − tion. When acid is added, it is buffered by HCO −, which HCO 3 3 (6) is then converted into dissolved CO , decreasing the ratio 2 of HCO − to CO and decreasing the pH of the extracel- Rather than work with a negative logarithm, we can 3 2 lular fluid. change the sign of the logarithm and invert the numerator Buffer Power Determined by Amount and Relative and denominator in the last term, using the law of loga- Concentrations of Buffer Components. From the titration rithms, to yield the following: curve in Figure 31-1 , several points are apparent. First, − HCO pH=pK+log 3 the pH of the system is the same as the pK when each (0.03×Pco 2) (7) of the components (HCO 3− and CO 2) constitutes 50% of the total concentration of the buffer system. Second, For the bicarbonate
