Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as the pK when each (0.03×Pco 2) (7) of the components (HCO 3− and CO 2) constitutes 50% of the total concentration of the buffer system. Second, For the bicarbonate buffer system, the pK is 6.1, and the buffer system is most effective in the central part of Equation 7 can be written as follows: pH=6.1+log HCO 3− 0 Normal 100 0.03×Pco 2 (8) operating point in body Equation 8 is the Henderson- Hasselbalch equation and, 25 75 with it, one can calculate the pH of a solution if the molar concentration of HCO − and the Pco are known. 3 2 50 50 From the Henderson- Hasselbalch equation, it is appar- pK ent that an increase in HCO − concentration causes the pH 3 to rise, shifting the acid–base balance toward alkalosis. An 75 25 increase in Pco causes the pH to decrease, shifting the 2 acid–base balance toward acidosis. The Henderson- Hasselbalch equation, in addition to 100 0 defining the determinants of normal pH regulation and 4 5 6 7 8 acid–base balance in the extracellular fluid, provides in- pH sight into the physiological control of the acid and base Figure 31- 1. Titration curve for bicarbonate buffer system showing composition of the extracellular fluid. As discussed lat- the pH of extracellular fluid when the percentages of buffer in the er, the HCO 3− concentration is regulated mainly by the form of HCO 3− and CO 2 (or H 2CO 3) are altered. 406 dedda dicA fo mrof ni reffub fo tnecreP OC ro OC H 2 3 2 fo mrof ni reffub fo tnecreP – OCH 3 dedda esaB Chapter 31 Acid–Base Regulation the curve, where the pH is near the pK of the system. The phosphate buffer system has a pK of 6.8, which This phenomenon means that the change in pH for any is not far from the normal pH of 7.4 in the body fluids, given amount of acid or base added to the system is least allows the system to operate near its maximum buffer- when the pH is near the pK of the system. The buffer sys- ing power. However, its concentration in the extracellular tem is still reasonably effective for 1.0 pH unit on either fluid is low, at only about 8% of the concentration of the side of the pK, which, for the bicarbonate buffer system, bicarbonate buffer. Therefore, the
