Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pH unit on either fluid is low, at only about 8% of the concentration of the side of the pK, which, for the bicarbonate buffer system, bicarbonate buffer. Therefore, the total buffering power of extends from a pH of about 5.1 to 7.1 units. Beyond these the phosphate system in the extracellular fluid is much limits, the buffering power rapidly diminishes. And, when all the CO has been converted into HCO −, or when all less than that of the bicarbonate buffering system. 2 3 the HCO − has been converted into CO , the system has In contrast to its minor role as an extracellular buffer, 3 2 no more buffering power. the phosphate buffer is especially important in the tubu- The absolute concentration of the buffers is also an lar fluids of the kidneys for two reasons: (1) phosphate important factor in determining the buffer power of a sys- usually becomes greatly concentrated in the tubules, tem. With low concentrations of the buffers, only a small thereby increasing the buffering power of the phosphate amount of acid or base added to the solution changes the system; and (2) the tubular fluid usually has a consider- pH considerably. ably lower pH than the extracellular fluid, bringing the Bicarbonate Buffer System Is the Most Important operating range of the buffer closer to the pK (6.8) of the Extracellular Buffer. From the titration curve shown in system. Figure 31- 1, one would not expect the bicarbonate buffer The phosphate buffer system is also important in system to be powerful, for two reasons. First, the pH of the buffering intracellular fluid because the concentration extracellular fluid is about 7.4, whereas the pK of the bicar- of phosphate in this fluid is many times higher than in bonate buffer system is 6.1, which means that there is about 20 times as much of the bicarbonate buffer system in the the extracellular fluid. Also, the pH of intracellular fluid form of HCO − as in the form of dissolved CO . For this is lower than that of extracellular fluid and, therefore, is 3 2 reason, this system operates on the portion of the buffering usually closer to the pK of the phosphate buffer system curve where the slope is low, and the buffering power is compared with the extracellular fluid. poor. Second, the concentrations of the two elements of the bicarbonate system, CO
