Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


system curve where the slope is low, and the buffering power is compared with the extracellular fluid. poor. Second, the concentrations of the two elements of the bicarbonate system, CO and HCO −, are not high. 2 3 PROTEINS ARE IMPORTANT Despite these characteristics, the bicarbonate buffer INTRACELLULAR BUFFERS system is the most powerful extracellular buffer in the body. This apparent paradox is due mainly to the fact that Proteins are among the most plentiful buffers in the body the two elements of the buffer system, HCO − and CO , 3 2 because of their high concentrations, especially in the are regulated, respectively, by the kidneys and lungs, as dis- cells. The pH of the cells, although slightly lower than cussed later. As a result of this regulation, the pH of the extracellular fluid can be precisely controlled by the relative in the extracellular fluid, nevertheless changes approxi- rate of removal and addition of HCO − by the kidneys and mately in proportion to extracellular fluid pH changes. 3 rate of removal of CO 2 by the lungs. There is a slight diffusion of H+ and HCO 3− through the cell membrane, although these ions require several PHOSPHATE BUFFER SYSTEM hours to reach equilibrium with the extracellular fluid, except for the rapid equilibrium that occurs in the red Although the phosphate buffer system is not a major blood cells. CO , however, can rapidly diffuse through 2 extracellular fluid buffer, it plays an important role in buff- all the cell membranes. This diffusion of the elements of ering renal tubular fluid and intracellular fluids. the bicarbonate buffer system causes the pH in intracel- The main elements of the phosphate buffer system are lular fluid to change when there are changes in extra- H PO − and HPO =. When a strong acid such as HCl is cellular pH. For this reason, the buffer systems in the 2 4 4 added to a mixture of these two substances, the hydrogen cells help prevent changes in the pH of the extracellular is accepted by the base HPO = and converted to H PO −: fluid but may take several hours to become maximally 4 2 4 effective. HCl+NaHPO →NaHPO +NaCl 2 4 2 4 In the red blood cell, hemoglobin (Hb) is an important buffer, as follows: The result of this reaction is that the strong acid, HCl, is replaced by
