Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


H+ =K × 1 =K × 2 =K × 3 1 A 2 A 3 A 1 2 3 INCREASING ALVEOLAR VENTILATION DECREASES EXTRACELLULAR FLUID H+ K , K , and K are the dissociation constants of three 1 2 3 CONCENTRATION AND RAISES PH respective acids—HA , HA , HA —and A , A , A are the 1 2 3 1 2 3 concentrations of the free negative ions that constitute the If the metabolic formation of CO remains constant, the 2 bases of the three buffer systems. only other factor that affects Pco in extracellular fluid The implication of this principle is that any condition 2 is the rate of alveolar ventilation. The higher the alveolar that changes the balance of one of the buffer systems also ventilation, the lower the Pco . As discussed previously, changes the balance of all the others because the buffer sys- 2 tems actually buffer one another by shifting H+ back and when CO 2 concentration increases, the H 2CO 3 concen- forth between them. tration and H+ concentration also increase, thereby low- ering extracellular fluid pH. RESPIRATORY REGULATION OF ACID– Figure 31-2 shows the approximate changes in blood BASE BALANCE pH that are caused by increasing or decreasing the alveo- lar ventilation rate. Note that increasing alveolar ventila- The second line of defense against acid– base distur- tion to about twice normal raises extracellular fluid pH bances is control of extracellular fluid CO concentration by about 0.23. If the pH of the body fluids is 7.40 with 2 by the lungs. An increase in ventilation eliminates CO normal alveolar ventilation, doubling the ventilation rate 2 from extracellular fluid, which, by mass action, reduces raises the pH to about 7.63. Conversely, a decrease in the H+ concentration. Conversely, decreased ventilation alveolar ventilation to one- fourth normal reduces the pH increases CO and H+ concentrations in the extracellular by 0.45. That is, if the pH is 7.4 at a normal alveolar ven- 2 fluid. tilation, reducing the ventilation to one- fourth normal reduces the pH to 6.95. Because the alveolar ventilation PULMONARY EXPIRATION OF CO rate can change markedly, from as low as 0 to as high as 2 BALANCES METABOLIC FORMATION OF CO 15 times normal, one can easily understand how much 2 the pH of the body fluids can be changed by the respira- CO is formed continually in the
