Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


OF CO 15 times normal, one can easily understand how much 2 the pH of the body fluids can be changed by the respira- CO is formed continually in the body by intracellular tory system. 2 metabolic processes. After it is formed, it diffuses from the cells into the interstitial fluids and blood, and the flow- INCREASED H+ CONCENTRATION ing blood transports it to the lungs, where it diffuses into STIMULATES ALVEOLAR VENTILATION the alveoli and then is transferred to the atmosphere by pulmonary ventilation. About 1.2 mol/L of dissolved CO Not only does the alveolar ventilation rate influence H+ 2 is normally in the extracellular fluid, corresponding to a concentration by changing Pco of the body fluids, but 2 Pco of 40 mm Hg. the H+ concentration affects the rate of alveolar ventila- 2 If the rate of metabolic formation of CO 2 increases, the tion. Thus, Figure 31- 3 shows that alveolar ventilation rate Pco of the extracellular fluid is likewise increased. Con- increases four to five times normal as pH decreases from 2 versely, a decreased metabolic rate lowers the Pco . If the the normal value of 7.4 to the strongly acidic value of 7.0. 2 rate of pulmonary ventilation is increased, CO is blown Conversely, a rise in plasma pH above 7.4 causes a decrease 2 off from the lungs, and the Pco in the extracellular fluid in the ventilation rate. The change in ventilation rate per 2 decreases. Therefore, changes in pulmonary ventilation or unit pH change is much greater at reduced levels of pH the rate of CO formation by the tissues can change the (corresponding to elevated H+ concentration) compared 2 extracellular fluid Pco . with increased levels of pH. The reason for this is that as the 2 408 sdiulf ydob ni egnahc Hp Chapter 31 Acid–Base Regulation tracellular fluid, and the pH falls from 7.4 to 7.0, the res- 4 piratory system can return the pH to a value of about 7.2 to 7.3. This response occurs within 3 to 12 minutes. As 3 discussed previously, the respiratory responses to meta- bolic alkalosis are limited by hypoxemia associated with reduced alveolar ventilation. 2 Buffering Power of the Respiratory System. Respira- 1 tory regulation of acid–base balance is a physiological type of buffer system because it acts rapidly and keeps 0 the H+ concentration from changing too much until the 7.0
