Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1 tory regulation of acid–base balance is a physiological type of buffer system because it acts rapidly and keeps 0 the H+ concentration from changing too much until the 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 slowly responding kidneys can eliminate the imbalance. pH of arterial blood In general, the overall buffering power of the respiratory Figure 31- 3. Effect of blood pH on the alveolar ventilation rate. system is one to two times as great as the buffering power of all other chemical buffers in the extracellular fluid com- alveolar ventilation rate decreases, as a result of an increase bined. That is, one to two times as much acid or base can in pH (decreased H+ concentration), the amount of oxygen normally be buffered by this mechanism as by the chemi- added to the blood decreases, and the partial pressure of cal buffers. oxygen (Po ) in the blood also decreases, which stimulates 2 the ventilation rate. Therefore, the respiratory compensa- Impairment of Lung Function Can Cause Respiratory tion for an increase in pH is not nearly as effective as the Acidosis. We have discussed thus far the role of the response to a marked reduction in pH. normal respiratory mechanism as a means of buffering changes in H+ concentration. However, abnormalities Feedback Control of H+ Concentration by the Res- of respiration can also cause changes in H+ concen- piratory System. Because increased H+ concentration tration. For example, an impairment of lung function, stimulates respiration and because increased alveolar such as severe emphysema, decreases the ability of the ventilation decreases H+ concentration, the respiratory lungs to eliminate CO , which causes a buildup of CO 2 2 system acts as a typical negative feedback controller of H+ in the extracellular fluid and a tendency toward respir- concentration: atory acidosis. Also, the ability to respond to metabolic acidosis is impaired because the compensatory reduc- ↑[H ] → ↑Alveolar ventilation tions in Pco that would normally occur by means of ↓ 2 increased ventilation are blunted. In these circum- ↓PCO2 stances, the kidneys represent the sole remaining phys- That is, whenever H+ concentration increases above iological mechanism for returning pH toward normal normal, the respiratory system is stimulated, and alveo- after the initial chemical buffering in the extracellular lar ventilation increases. This mechanism decreases the fluid has occurred. Pco in extracellular fluid and reduces H+ concentration 2 back toward normal. Conversely,
