Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the initial chemical buffering in the extracellular lar ventilation increases. This mechanism decreases the fluid has occurred. Pco in extracellular fluid and reduces H+ concentration 2 back toward normal. Conversely, if H+ concentration falls RENAL CONTROL OF ACID–BASE below normal, the respiratory center becomes depressed, BALANCE alveolar ventilation decreases, and H+ concentration increases back toward normal. Although alkalosis tends The kidneys control acid–base balance by excreting acidic to depress the respiratory centers, the response is gen- or basic urine. Excreting acidic urine reduces the amount erally less robust and less predictable than the response of acid in extracellular fluid, whereas excreting basic urine to metabolic acidosis; the hypoxemia associated with removes base from the extracellular fluid. reduced alveolar ventilation eventually activates oxygen- The overall mechanism whereby the kidneys excrete sensitive chemoreceptors that tend to stimulate ventila- acidic or basic urine is as follows. Large amounts of tion and limit the respiratory compensation for metabolic HCO − are filtered continuously into the tubules and, 3 alkalosis. if excreted into the urine, remove base from the blood. Large numbers of H+ are also secreted into the tubular Efficiency of Respiratory Control of H+ Concentration. lumen by the tubular epithelial cells, thus removing acid Respiratory control cannot return the H+ concentration from the blood. If more H+ is secreted than HCO − is fil- 3 all the way back to normal when a disturbance outside tered, there will be a net loss of acid from the extracellu- the respiratory system has altered the pH. Ordinarily, the lar fluid. Conversely, if more HCO − is filtered than H+ is 3 respiratory mechanism for controlling H+ concentration secreted, there will be a net loss of base. is approximately 50% to 75% effective, corresponding to Each day, the body produces about 80 mEq of nonvola- a feedback gain of 1 to 3 for metabolic acidosis. That is, tile acids, mainly from metabolism of proteins. These acids if the pH is suddenly decreased by adding acid to the ex- are called nonvolatile because they are not H CO and, 2 3 409 )1 = lamron( noitalitnev raloevlA UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys therefore, cannot be excreted by the lungs. The primary 85% (3672 mEq/day) mechanism for removal of these acids from the body is 4320 renal excretion. The kidneys must also prevent the loss of mEq/day bicarbonate in the urine, a task that
