Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cells of the proximal tubule, the thick seg- extracellular fluid H+ concentration back toward normal. ment of the ascending loop of Henle, and the early distal Thus, the kidneys regulate extracellular fluid H+ con- tubule all secrete H+ into the tubular fluid by sodium- centration through three fundamental mechanisms: (1) hydrogen counter- transport, as shown in Figure 31- 5. secretion of H+; (2) reabsorption of filtered HCO −; and (3) This secondary active secretion of H+ is coupled with 3 production of new HCO −. All these processes are accom- the transport of Na+ into the cell at the luminal mem- 3 plished through the same basic mechanisms, as discussed brane by the sodium- hydrogen exchanger protein, and in the next few sections. the energy for H+ secretion against a concentration gra- dient is derived from the sodium gradient favoring Na+ SECRETION OF H+ AND REABSORPTION movement into the cell. This gradient is established by OF HCO − BY THE RENAL TUBULES the sodium- potassium adenosine triphosphatase (Na+- K+ 3 ATPase) pump in the basolateral membrane. About 95% Hydrogen ion secretion and HCO − reabsorption occur in of the bicarbonate is reabsorbed in this manner, requir- 3 virtually all parts of the tubules except the descending and ing about 4000 mEq of H+ to be secreted each day by the ascending thin limbs of the loop of Henle. Figure 31- 4 tubules. This mechanism, however, can establish a mini- summarizes HCO − reabsorption along the tubule. Keep mum pH of only about 6.7; the tubular fluid becomes very 3 in mind that for each HCO − reabsorbed, an H+ must be acidic only in the collecting tubules and collecting ducts, 3 secreted. which can establish a urine pH as low as about 4.5. About 80% to 90% of the HCO 3− reabsorption (and Figure 31- 5 shows how the process of H+ secretion H+ secretion) occurs in the proximal tubule, so only a achieves HCO − reabsorption. The secretory process 3 small amount of HCO − flows into the distal tubules and begins when CO either diffuses into the tubular cells or 3 2 collecting ducts. In the thick ascending loop of Henle, is formed by metabolism in the tubular epithelial cells. another 10% of the filtered HCO − is reabsorbed, and the Under the influence of the enzyme carbonic anhydrase, 3 remainder of the reabsorption takes place in the
