Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


equal, and they combine with to form CO and H O; and (3) Na+ reabsorption in exchange for H+ 2 2 secreted. This pattern of H+ secretion occurs in the proximal tubule, each other to form CO 2 and H 2O. Therefore, it is said that thick ascending segment of the loop of Henle, and early distal tubule. HCO 3− and H+ normally “titrate” each other in the tubules. The titration process is not quite exact because there is usually a slight excess of H+ in the tubules to be excreted carrier protein in the luminal border of the cell membrane; in the urine. This excess H+ (≈80 mEq/day) rids the body at the same time, a H+ in the interior of the cells combines of nonvolatile acids produced by metabolism. As dis- with the carrier protein. The Na+ moves into the cell down cussed later, most of this H+ is not excreted as free H+ but a concentration gradient that has been established by the is in combination with other urinary buffers, especially Na+- K+ ATPase pump in the basolateral membrane. The phosphate and ammonia. gradient for Na+ movement into the cell then provides the When there is an excess of HCO − over H+ in the urine, energy for moving H+ in the opposite direction from the 3 as occurs in metabolic alkalosis, the excess HCO − can- 3 interior of the cell to the tubular lumen. not be reabsorbed. Therefore, the excess HCO − is left in The HCO − generated in the cell (when H+ dissociates 3 3 the tubules and eventually excreted into the urine, which from H CO ) then moves downhill across the basolateral 2 3 helps correct the metabolic alkalosis. membrane, into the renal interstitial fluid and peritubular In acidosis, there is excess H+ relative to HCO −, caus- capillary blood. The net result is that for every H+ secreted 3 ing complete reabsorption of the HCO −; the excess H+ into the tubular lumen, an HCO − enters the blood. 3 3 passes into the urine in combination with urinary buf- fers, especially phosphate and ammonia, and eventually is FILTERED HCO 3− IS REABSORBED BY excreted as salts. Thus, the basic mechanism whereby the INTERACTION WITH H+ IN THE TUBULES kidneys correct acidosis or alkalosis is incomplete titra- tion of H+ against HCO −, leaving one or the other to pass
