Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mechanism whereby the INTERACTION WITH H+ IN THE TUBULES kidneys correct acidosis or alkalosis is incomplete titra- tion of H+ against HCO −, leaving one or the other to pass Bicarbonate ions do not readily permeate the luminal mem- 3 into the urine and be removed from the extracellular fluid. branes of the renal tubular cells; therefore, HCO − that is 3 filtered by the glomerulus cannot be directly reabsorbed. PRIMARY ACTIVE SECRETION OF H+ Instead, HCO 3− is reabsorbed by a special process in which IN THE INTERCALATED CELLS OF LATE it first combines with H+ to form H 2CO 3, which eventually DISTAL AND COLLECTING TUBULES becomes CO 2 and H 2O, as shown in Figure 31- 5. This reabsorption of HCO − is initiated by a reaction Beginning in the late distal tubules and continuing 3 in the tubules between HCO − filtered at the glomerulus through the remainder of the tubular system, the tubular 3 and H+ secreted by the tubular cells. The H CO formed epithelium secretes H+ by primary active transport. The 2 3 then dissociates into CO and H O. The CO can move characteristics of this transport are different from those 2 2 2 easily across the tubular membrane; therefore, it instantly discussed for the proximal tubule, loop of Henle, and early diffuses into the tubular cell, where it recombines with distal tubule. H O, under the influence of carbonic anhydrase, to gen- The mechanism for primary active H+ secretion was 2 erate a new H CO molecule. This H CO dissociates to discussed in Chapter 28 and is shown in Figure 31- 2 3 2 3 form HCO − and H+; the HCO − then diffuses through 6. It occurs at the luminal membrane of the tubular cell, 3 3 the basolateral membrane into the interstitial fluid and is where H+ is transported directly by specific proteins, a taken up into the peritubular capillary blood. The trans- hydrogen- transporting ATPase and a hydrogen- potassium- port of HCO across the basolateral membrane is facili- ATPase transporter. The energy required for pumping the 3 tated by two mechanisms: (1) Na+- HCO − co- transport H+ is derived from the breakdown of ATP to adenosine 3 in the proximal tubules; and (2) Cl−- HCO − exchange in diphosphate. 3 411 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Renal Tubular This is because
