Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fluid in acidosis. In the next two cells called the type A intercalated cells of the late distal tubule sections, we discuss the mechanisms whereby phosphate and in the collecting tubules. Hydrogen ion secretion in these and ammonia buffers contribute to generation of new cells is accomplished in two steps: (1) the dissolved CO in this HCO −. 2 3 cell combines with H O to form H CO ; and (2) the H CO 2 2 3 2 3 then dissociates into HCO 3−, which is reabsorbed into the PHOSPHATE BUFFER SYSTEM CARRIES blood, plus H+, which is secreted into the tubule by means of EXCESS H+ INTO THE URINE AND the hydrogen-A TPase and the hydrogen- potassium-A TPase GENERATES NEW HCO − 3 transporters. For each H+ secreted, a HCO − is reabsorbed, 3 similar to the process in the proximal tubules. The main dif- The phosphate buffer system is composed of HPO =. Both 4 ference is that H+ moves across the luminal membrane by an become concentrated in the tubular fluid because water is active H+ pump instead of by counter- transport, as occurs in normally reabsorbed to a greater extent than phosphate the early parts of the nephron. by the renal tubules. Therefore, although phosphate is not Although secretion of H+ in the late distal tubule an important extracellular fluid buffer, it is much more and collecting tubules accounts for only about 5% of the effective as a buffer in the tubular fluid. total H+ secreted, this mechanism is important in form- Another factor that makes phosphate important as a ing maximally acidic urine. In the proximal tubules, H+ tubular buffer is the fact that the pK of this system is about concentration can be increased only about threefold to 6.8. Under normal conditions, the urine is slightly acidic, fourfold and the tubular fluid pH can be reduced to only and the urine pH is near the pK of the phosphate buf- about 6.7, although large amounts of H+ are secreted by fer system. Therefore, in the tubules, the phosphate buf- this nephron segment. However, H+ concentration can be fer system normally functions near its most effective pH increased as much as 900-f old in the collecting tubules. range. This mechanism decreases the pH of the tubular fluid Figure 31- 7 shows the sequence of events whereby H+ to about 4.5, which is the lower
