Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


exchanger. For each glutamine molecule metabolized, two NH + are 4 produced and secreted, and two HCO − are returned to the blood. 3 There is one important difference in this sequence of H+ excretion from that discussed previously. In this Renal Tubular case, the HCO 3− that is generated in the tubular cell and interstitial Collecting lumen tubular cells enters the peritubular blood represents a net gain of fluid HCO − by the blood, rather than merely a replacement 3 of filtered HCO −. Therefore, whenever an H+ secreted 3 Na+ NH NH into the tubular lumen combines with a buffer other than 3 3 ATP HCO −, the net effect is the addition of a new HCO − to K+ Cl– 3 3 HCO – + H+ ATP the blood. This process demonstrates one of the mecha- 3 H+ nisms whereby the kidneys can replenish the extracel- lular fluid stores of HCO −. H CO 3 2 3 Carbonic NH + + Cl– Under normal conditions, much of the filtered phos- 4 anhydrase phate is reabsorbed, and only 30 to 40 mEq/day are avail- H 2O able for buffering H+. Therefore, much of the buffering of CO 2 C+ O excess H+ in the tubular fluid in acidosis occurs through 2 the ammonia buffer system. Figure 31- 9. Buffering of H+ secretion by ammonia (NH ) in the col- 3 lecting tubules. NH diffuses into the tubular lumen, where it reacts 3 EXCRETION OF EXCESS H+ AND with secreted H+ to form NH 4+, which is then excreted. For each NH 4+ GENERATION OF NEW HCO − BY excreted, a new HCO 3− is formed in the tubular cells and returned 3 to the blood. AMMONIA BUFFER SYSTEM A second buffer system in the tubular fluid that is even urine and two HCO − are reabsorbed into the blood. The 3 more important quantitatively than the phosphate buffer HCO − generated by this process constitutes new HCO −. 3 3 system is composed of ammonia (NH ) and the ammo- In the collecting tubules, the addition of NH + to the 3 4 nium ion (NH 4+). Ammonium ion is synthesized from tubular fluids occurs through a different mechanism (Fig- glutamine, which comes mainly from metabolism of ure 31- 9). Here, H+ is actively secreted by the tubular amino acids in the liver. The glutamine delivered to the
