Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mechanism (Fig- glutamine, which comes mainly from metabolism of ure 31- 9). Here, H+ is actively secreted by the tubular amino acids in the liver. The glutamine delivered to the membrane into the lumen, where it combines with NH 3 kidneys is transported into epithelial cells of the proximal to form NH +, which is then excreted. The collecting ducts 4 tubules, thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle, and are permeable to NH , which can easily diffuse into the 3 distal tubules (Figure 31- 8). Once inside the cell, each tubular lumen. However, the luminal membrane of this molecule of glutamine is metabolized in a series of reac- part of the tubules is much less permeable to NH +; there- 4 tions to ultimately form two NH + and two HCO −. The fore, once the H+ has reacted with NH to form NH +, the 4 3 3 4 NH + is secreted into the tubular lumen by a counter- NH + is trapped in the tubular lumen and eliminated in 4 4 transport mechanism in exchange for sodium, which is the urine. For each NH + excreted, a new HCO − is gener- 4 3 reabsorbed. The HCO − is transported across the basolat- ated and added to the blood. 3 eral membrane, along with the reabsorbed Na+, into the interstitial fluid and is taken up by the peritubular capil- Chronic Acidosis Increases NH + Excretion. One of 4 laries. Thus, for each molecule of glutamine metabolized the most important features of the renal ammonium- in the proximal tubules, two NH + are secreted into the ammonia buffer system is that it is subject to physiological 4 413 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys control. An increase in extracellular fluid H+ concentra- The reason we subtract HCO − excretion is that the loss 3 tion stimulates renal glutamine metabolism and, there- of HCO − is the same as the addition of H+ to the blood. 3 fore, increases formation of NH + and new HCO − to be To maintain acid–base balance, the net acid excretion must 4 3 used in H+ buffering; a decrease in H+ concentration has equal the nonvolatile acid production in the body. the opposite effect. In acidosis, the net acid excretion increases markedly, Under normal conditions, the amount of H+ eliminated especially because of increased NH +
