Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acid production in the body. the opposite effect. In acidosis, the net acid excretion increases markedly, Under normal conditions, the amount of H+ eliminated especially because of increased NH + excretion, thereby 4 by the ammonia buffer system accounts for about 50% of removing acid from the blood. The net acid excretion also the acid excreted and 50% of the new HCO − generated equals the rate of net HCO − addition to the blood. There- 3 3 by the kidneys. However, with chronic acidosis, the rate of fore, in acidosis, there is a net addition of HCO − back to 3 NH + excretion can increase to as much as 500 mEq/day. the blood as more NH + and urinary titratable acid are 4 4 Therefore, with chronic acidosis, the dominant mechanism excreted. for acid elimination is excretion of NH +. This process also In alkalosis, titratable acid and NH + excretion drop to 4 4 provides the most important mechanism for generating 0, whereas HCO − excretion increases. Therefore, in alka- 3 new bicarbonate during chronic acidosis. losis, there is a negative net acid secretion, which means that there is a net loss of HCO − from the blood, which 3 QUANTIFYING RENAL ACID–BASE is the same as adding H+ to the blood, and that no new EXCRETION HCO 3− is generated by the kidneys. Based on the principles discussed earlier, we can quantify REGULATION OF RENAL TUBULAR H+ the kidneys’ net excretion of acid or net addition or elimi- SECRETION nation of HCO − from the blood as follows. 3 Bicarbonate excretion is calculated as urine flow rate As discussed earlier, H+ secretion by the tubular epithe- multiplied by the urinary HCO − concentration and indi- lium is necessary for HCO − reabsorption and generation 3 3 cates how rapidly the kidneys are removing HCO − from of new HCO − associated with titratable acid formation. 3 3 the blood, which is the same as adding an H+ to the blood. Therefore, the rate of H+ secretion must be carefully In alkalosis, the loss of HCO − helps return the plasma pH regulated if the kidneys are to perform their functions in 3 toward normal. acid– base homeostasis effectively. Under normal condi- The amount of new HCO − contributed to the blood at tions, the kidney tubules must secrete at least enough H+ 3 any given time
