Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


homeostasis effectively. Under normal condi- The amount of new HCO − contributed to the blood at tions, the kidney tubules must secrete at least enough H+ 3 any given time is equal to the amount of H+ secreted that to reabsorb almost all the HCO − that is filtered, and there 3 ends up in the tubular lumen with non-b icarbonate uri- must be enough H+ left over to be excreted as titratable nary buffers. As discussed previously, the primary sources acid or NH + to rid the body of the nonvolatile acids pro- 4 of nonbicarbonate urinary buffers are NH + and phos- duced each day from metabolism. 4 phate. Therefore, part of the HCO − added to the blood In alkalosis, the tubular secretion of H+ is reduced to a 3 (and H+ excreted by NH +) is calculated by measuring level that is too low to achieve complete HCO − reabsorp- 4 3 NH + excretion (urine flow rate multiplied by urinary tion, enabling the kidneys to increase HCO − excretion. 4 3 NH + concentration). Titratable acid and ammonia are not excreted in alka- 4 The rest of the non-bicarbonate, non-N H + buf- losis because there is no excess H+ available to combine 4 fer excreted in the urine is measured by determining a with nonbicarbonate buffers; therefore, no new HCO − is 3 value known as titratable acid. The amount of titratable added to the blood in alkalosis. acid in the urine is measured by titrating the urine with During acidosis, the tubular H+ secretion is increased a strong base, such as NaOH, to a pH of 7.4, the pH of sufficiently to reabsorb all the filtered HCO −, with 3 normal plasma and the pH of the glomerular filtrate. This enough H+ left over to excrete large amounts of NH + 4 titration reverses the events that occurred in the tubular and titratable acid, thereby contributing large amounts lumen when the tubular fluid was titrated by secreted of new HCO − to the total body extracellular fluid. The 3 H+. Therefore, the number of milliequivalents of NaOH most important stimuli for increasing H+ secretion by the required to return the urinary pH to 7.4 equals the num- tubules in acidosis are as follows: (1) an increase in Pco 2 ber of milliequivalents of H+ added to the tubular fluid of the extracellular fluid
