Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


7.4 equals the num- tubules in acidosis are as follows: (1) an increase in Pco 2 ber of milliequivalents of H+ added to the tubular fluid of the extracellular fluid in respiratory acidosis; and (2) that combined with phosphate and other organic buffers. an increase in H+ concentration of the extracellular fluid The titratable acid measurement does not include H+ in (decreased pH) in respiratory or metabolic acidosis. association with NH + because the pK of the ammonia- The tubular cells respond directly to an increase in 4 ammonium reaction is 9.2, and titration with NaOH to a Pco of the blood, as in respiratory acidosis, with an 2 pH of 7.4 does not remove the H+ from NH +. increase in the rate of H+ secretion, as follows. The 4 Thus, the net acid excretion by the kidneys can be increased Pco raises the Pco of the tubular cells, caus- 2 2 assessed as follows: ing increased formation of H+ in the tubular cells, which in turn stimulates secretion of H+. The second factor that Netacidexcretion=NH + excretion+Urinary 4 stimulates H+ secretion is an increase in extracellular fluid titratableacid−HCO 3− eexcretion H+ concentration (decreased pH). 414 Chapter 31 Acid–Base Regulation Table 31- 2 Plasma or Extracellular Fluid Factors HCO − reabsorption and leads to alkalosis. Hyperkale- 3 That Increase or Decrease H+ Secretion and HCO 3− mia decreases H+ secretion and HCO − reabsorption and 3 Reabsorption by the Renal Tubules tends to cause acidosis. Increase H+ Secretion and Decrease H+ Secretion and HCO 3− Reabsorption HCO 3− Reabsorption RENAL CORRECTION OF ACIDOSIS— ↑Pco2 ↓Pco2 INCREASED EXCRETION OF H+ AND ADDITION OF HCO − TO THE ↑H+, ↓HCO 3− ↓H+, ↑HCO 3− 3 EXTRACELLULAR FLUID ↓Extracellular fluid volume ↑Extracellular fluid volume ↑Angiotensin II ↓Angiotensin II Now that we have described the mechanisms whereby the kidneys secrete H+ and reabsorb HCO −, we can explain 3 ↑Aldosterone ↓Aldosterone how the kidneys readjust the pH of the extracellular fluid Hypokalemia Hyperkalemia when it becomes abnormal. Referring to Equation 8, the Henderson- Hasselbalch equation, we can see that acidosis occurs when the ratio A special factor that can increase H+ secretion under of HCO − to CO in the extracellular fluid decreases, 3 2 some pathophysiological conditions is excessive aldoste- thereby decreasing the pH. If this ratio decreases because rone secretion. Aldosterone stimulates secretion of H+ by of a fall in HCO
