Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


3 2 some pathophysiological conditions is excessive aldoste- thereby decreasing the pH. If this ratio decreases because rone secretion. Aldosterone stimulates secretion of H+ by of a fall in HCO −, the acidosis is referred to as metabolic 3 type A intercalated cells of the collecting tubules and ducts. acidosis. If the pH falls because of an increase in Pco , the 2 Therefore, excessive secretion of aldosterone, as in persons acidosis is referred to as respiratory acidosis. with Conn syndrome, increases secretion of H+ into the tubular fluid and, consequently, increases the amount of ACIDOSIS DECREASES HCO −/H+ RATIO IN 3 HCO 3− added back to the blood. This action usually causes RENAL TUBULAR FLUID alkalosis in patients with excessive aldosterone secretion. The tubular cells usually respond to a decrease in H+ Respiratory and metabolic acidosis both cause a decrease concentration (alkalosis) by reducing H+ secretion. The in the ratio of HCO −/H+ in the renal tubular fluid. As 3 decreased H+ secretion results from decreased extracel- a result, there is excess H+ in the renal tubules, causing lular Pco , as in respiratory alkalosis, or from a decrease complete reabsorption of HCO − and still leaving addi- 2 3 in H+ concentration, as in both respiratory and metabolic tional H+ available to combine with the urinary buffers alkalosis. NH + and HPO =. Thus, in acidosis, the kidneys reabsorb 4 4 Table 31- 2 summarizes the major factors that influ- all the filtered HCO 3− and contribute new HCO 3− through ence H+ secretion and HCO − reabsorption. Some of formation of NH + and titratable acid. 3 4 these factors are not directly related to the regulation of In metabolic acidosis, an excess of H+ over HCO − 3 acid– base balance. For example, H+ secretion is coupled occurs in the tubular fluid, primarily because of decreased to Na+ reabsorption by the Na+- H+ exchanger in the extracellular fluid concentration of HCO − and therefore 3 proximal tubule and the thick ascending loop of Henle. decreased glomerular filtration of HCO −. 3 Therefore, factors that stimulate Na+ reabsorption, such In respiratory acidosis, the excess H+ in the tubular as decreased extracellular fluid volume and increased fluid is due mainly to the rise in extracellular fluid Pco , 2 angiotensin II (Ang II), may also secondarily increase H+ which stimulates H+ secretion. secretion and HCO − reabsorption. As
