Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


due mainly to the rise in extracellular fluid Pco , 2 angiotensin II (Ang II), may also secondarily increase H+ which stimulates H+ secretion. secretion and HCO − reabsorption. As discussed previously, with chronic acidosis, regard- 3 Extracellular fluid volume depletion stimulates less of whether it is respiratory or metabolic, there is sodium reabsorption by the renal tubules and increases increased production of NH +, which further contributes 4 H+ secretion and HCO − reabsorption through multiple to excretion of H+ and addition of new HCO − to the 3 3 mechanisms, including the following: (1) increased Ang extracellular fluid. With severe chronic acidosis, as much II levels, which directly stimulate activity of the Na+- as 500 mEq/day of H+ can be excreted in the urine, mainly H+ exchanger in the renal tubules; and (2) increased in the form of NH +; this excretion, in turn, contributes up 4 aldosterone levels, which stimulate H+ secretion by to 500 mEq/day of new HCO − that is added to the blood. 3 the intercalated cells of the cortical collecting tubules. Thus, with chronic acidosis, increased secretion of H+ Therefore, extracellular fluid volume depletion tends by the tubules helps eliminate excess H+ from the body to cause alkalosis due to excess H+ secretion and and increases the quantity of HCO − in the extracellu- 3 HCO − reabsorption. lar fluid. This process increases the HCO − part of the 3 3 Changes in plasma potassium concentration can bicarbonate buffer system, which, in accordance with the also influence H+ secretion, with hypokalemia stimu- Henderson- Hasselbalch equation, helps raise the extra- lating and hyperkalemia inhibiting H+ secretion in the cellular pH and corrects the acidosis. If the acidosis is proximal tubule. Decreased plasma potassium concen- metabolically mediated, additional compensation by the tration tends to increase H+ concentration in the renal lungs causes a reduction in Pco , also helping correct the 2 tubular cells. This, in turn, stimulates H+ secretion and acidosis. 415 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Table 31- 3 Extracellular Fluid Characteristics of in the urine. Thus, in alkalosis, HCO − is removed from 3 Primary Acid– Base Disturbancesa the extracellular fluid by renal excretion, which has the pH H+ Pco2 HCO 3− same effect as adding an H+ to the extracellular fluid. This process helps return the H+ concentration and pH Normal 7.4 40 mEq/L 40 mm Hg
