Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


H+ Pco2 HCO 3− same effect as adding an H+ to the extracellular fluid. This process helps return the H+ concentration and pH Normal 7.4 40 mEq/L 40 mm Hg 24 mEq/L toward normal. Respiratory ↓ ↑ ↑↑ ↑ Table 31-3 shows the overall extracellular fluid char- acidosis acteristics of respiratory and metabolic alkalosis. In Respiratory ↑ ↓ ↓↓ ↓ respiratory alkalosis, there is an increase in extracellular alkalosis fluid pH and a decrease in H+ concentration. The cause of Metabolic ↓ ↑ ↓ ↓↓ the alkalosis is decreased plasma Pco , caused by hyper- acidosis 2 ventilation. Reduction in Pco then leads to decreased Metabolic ↑ ↓ ↑ ↑↑ renal tubular H+ secretion. C2 onsequently, there is not alkalosis enough H+ in the renal tubular fluid to react with all the aThe primary event is indicated by the double arrows (↑↑ or ↓↓). Note HCO − that is filtered. Therefore, the HCO − that cannot that respiratory acid–base disorders are initiated by an increase 3 3 or decrease in Pco2, whereas metabolic disorders are initiated by react with H+ is not reabsorbed and is excreted in the an increase or decrease in HCO −. urine. This results in a decreased plasma HCO − con- 3 3 centration and correction of the alkalosis. Therefore, the compensatory response to a primary reduction in Pco 2 Table 31-3 summarizes the extracellular fluid char- in respiratory alkalosis is a reduction in plasma HCO 3− acteristics associated with respiratory and metabolic concentration, caused by increased renal excretion of acidosis, as well as respiratory and metabolic alkalo- HCO −. 3 sis, discussed in the next section. Note that in respi- In metabolic alkalosis, there is also decreased plasma ratory acidosis, there is a reduction in pH, an increase H+ concentration and increased pH. The cause of met- in extracellular fluid H+ concentration, and an increase abolic alkalosis, however, is a rise in the extracellular in Pco , which is the initial cause of the acidosis. The fluid HCO − concentration. This rise is partly compen- 2 3 compensatory response is increase in plasma HCO −, sated for by a reduction in the respiration rate, which 3 caused by the addition of new HCO − to the extracellu- increases Pco and helps return the extracellular fluid 3 2 lar fluid by the kidneys. The rise in HCO − helps offset pH toward normal. In addition, increased
