Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the extracellu- increases Pco and helps return the extracellular fluid 3 2 lar fluid by the kidneys. The rise in HCO − helps offset pH toward normal. In addition, increased HCO − con- 3 3 the increase in Pco , thereby returning the plasma pH centration in the extracellular fluid increases the fil- 2 toward normal. tered load of HCO −, which, in turn, causes excess 3 In metabolic acidosis, there is also a decrease in pH and HCO − over H+ secreted in the renal tubular fluid. The 3 a rise in the extracellular fluid H+ concentration. How- excess HCO − in the tubular fluid fails to be reabsorbed 3 ever, in this case, the primary abnormality is a decrease because there is no H+ with which it can react, and it in plasma HCO −. The primary compensations include is excreted in the urine. In metabolic alkalosis, the pri- 3 increased ventilation rate, which reduces Pco , and renal mary compensations are decreased ventilation, which 2 compensation, which, by adding new HCO − to the extra- raises Pco , and increases renal HCO − excretion, which 3 2 3 cellular fluid, helps minimize the initial fall in extracellu- helps compensate for the initial rise in extracellular fluid lar HCO − concentration. HCO − concentration. 3 3 Clinical Causes of Acid–Base Disorders RENAL CORRECTION OF ALKALOSIS— DECREASED TUBULAR SECRETION OF H+ Respiratory Acidosis Results From Decreased Ventilation AND INCREASED EXCRETION OF HCO − and Increased Pco 2 3 From the previous discussion, it is obvious that any factor The compensatory responses to alkalosis are basically that decreases the rate of pulmonary ventilation also in- opposite to those that occur in acidosis. In alkalosis, the creases the Pco of extracellular fluid. This causes an in- 2 ratio of HCO 3− to CO 2 in the extracellular fluid increases, crease in H 2CO 3 and H+ concentrations, thus resulting in causing a rise in pH (a decrease in H+ concentration), as acidosis. Because the acidosis is caused by an abnormality evident from the Henderson- Hasselbalch equation. in respiration, it is called respiratory acidosis. Respiratory acidosis can occur from pathological condi- tions that damage the respiratory centers or that decrease ALKALOSIS INCREASES HCO −/H+ RATIO 3 the ability of the lungs to eliminate CO . For example, dam- 2 IN RENAL TUBULAR FLUID age to the respiratory center in the medulla oblongata
