Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


HCO −/H+ RATIO 3 the ability of the lungs to eliminate CO . For example, dam- 2 IN RENAL TUBULAR FLUID age to the respiratory center in the medulla oblongata can lead to respiratory acidosis. Also, obstruction of the pas- Regardless of whether alkalosis is caused by metabolic sageways of the respiratory tract, pneumonia, emphysema, or respiratory abnormalities, there is still an increase or decreased pulmonary membrane surface area, as well as in the ratio of HCO −/H+ in the renal tubular fluid. The 3 any factor that interferes with exchange of gases between net effect of this is an excess of HCO 3− that cannot be the blood and alveolar air, can cause respiratory acidosis. reabsorbed from the tubules and is, therefore, excreted 416 Chapter 31 Acid–Base Regulation In respiratory acidosis, the compensatory responses Diabetes Mellitus. Diabetes mellitus is caused by lack available are as follows: (1) the buffers of the body fluids; of insulin secretion by the pancreas (type 1 diabetes) or by and (2) the kidneys, which require several days to compen- insufficient insulin secretion to compensate for decreased sate for the disorder. sensitivity to the effects of insulin (type 2 diabetes). In the absence of sufficient insulin, the normal metabolism of glu- Respiratory Alkalosis Results From Increased Ventilation cose is prevented. Instead, some of the fats are split into and Decreased Pco 2 acetoacetic acid, and this acid is metabolized by the tissues Respiratory alkalosis is caused by excessive ventilation for energy in place of glucose. With severe diabetes mel- by the lungs. Rarely does this occur because of physical litus, blood acetoacetic acid levels can rise very high, caus- pathological conditions. However, a psychoneurosis can ing severe metabolic acidosis. In an attempt to compensate occasionally increase breathing to the extent that a person for this acidosis, large amounts of acid are excreted in the becomes alkalotic. urine—sometimes as much as 500 mmol/day. A physiological type of respiratory alkalosis occurs Ingestion of Acids. Rarely are large amounts of acids in- when a person ascends to a high altitude. The low oxy- gested in normal foods. However, severe metabolic acido- gen content of the air stimulates respiration, which causes sis occasionally results from the ingestion of certain acidic loss of CO 2 and development of mild respiratory alkalosis. poisons. Some of these substances include some acetylsali- Again, the major means for compensation are the chemi- cylic compounds
