Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acidic loss of CO 2 and development of mild respiratory alkalosis. poisons. Some of these substances include some acetylsali- Again, the major means for compensation are the chemi- cylic compounds (e.g., aspirin) and methyl alcohol, which cal buffers of the body fluids and ability of the kidneys to forms formic acid when it is metabolized. increase HCO 3− excretion. Chronic Renal Failure. When kidney function declines Metabolic Acidosis Results From Decreased Extracellular markedly, there is a buildup in the body fluids of the anions Fluid HCO − Concentration of weak acids that are not being excreted by the kidneys. In 3 addition, the decreased glomerular filtration rate reduces ex- The term metabolic acidosis refers to all other types of acidosis cretion of phosphates and NH+, which reduces the amount 4 besides those caused by excess CO in the body fluids. Meta- 2 of HCO− added back to the body fluids. Thus, chronic renal 3 bolic acidosis can result from several general causes: (1) failure failure can be associated with severe metabolic acidosis. of the kidneys to excrete metabolic acids normally formed in the body; (2) formation of excess quantities of metabolic acids Metabolic Alkalosis Results From Increased in the body; (3) addition of metabolic acids to the body by in- Extracellular Fluid HCO 3− Concentration gestion or infusion of acids; and (4) loss of base from the body Excess retention of HCO − or loss of H+ from the body 3 fluids, which has the same effect as adding an acid to the body causes metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis is not nearly fluids. Some specific conditions that cause metabolic acidosis as common as metabolic acidosis, but some of the causes of are described in the following sections. metabolic alkalosis are described in the following sections. Renal Tubular Acidosis. Renal tubular acidosis results Administration of Diuretics (Except Carbonic Anhy- from a defect in renal secretion of H+, reabsorption of drase Inhibitors). All diuretics cause increased flow of fluid HCO −, or both. These disorders are generally of two types: 3 along the tubules, usually increasing flow in the distal and (1) impairment of renal tubular HCO − reabsorption, caus- 3 collecting tubules. This effect leads to increased reabsorp- ing loss of HCO − in the urine; or (2) inability of the renal 3 tion of Na+ from these parts of the nephrons. Because the tubular H+ secretory mechanism to establish normal
