Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


HCO − in the urine; or (2) inability of the renal 3 tion of Na+ from these parts of the nephrons. Because the tubular H+ secretory mechanism to establish normal acid- sodium reabsorption here is coupled with H+ secretion, the ic urine, causing the excretion of alkaline urine. In these enhanced sodium reabsorption also leads to an increase in cases, inadequate amounts of titratable acid and NH + are 4 H+ secretion and increase in bicarbonate reabsorption. Re- excreted, so there is net accumulation of acid in the body ductions in extracellular fluid volume associated with the fluids. Some causes of renal tubular acidosis include chron- use of diuretics is also generally associated with increased ic renal failure, insufficient aldosterone secretion (Addison formation of Ang II and aldosterone, which both stimulate disease), and several hereditary and acquired disorders that H+ secretion and HCO − reabsorption. These changes lead 3 impair tubular function, such as Fanconi syndrome (see to the development of alkalosis, characterized by increased Chapter 32). extracellular fluid bicarbonate concentration. Diarrhea. Severe diarrhea is probably the most frequent Excess Aldosterone. When large amounts of aldoster- cause of metabolic acidosis. The cause of this acidosis is the one are secreted by the adrenal glands, a mild metabolic loss of large amounts of sodium bicarbonate into the feces. alkalosis develops. As discussed previously, aldosterone The gastrointestinal secretions normally contain large promotes extensive reabsorption of Na+ from the distal and amounts of bicarbonate, and diarrhea results in the loss of collecting tubules and, at the same time, stimulates secre- HCO − from the body, which has the same effect as los- 3 tion of H+ and HCO − reabsorption by the intercalated cells 3 ing large amounts of bicarbonate in the urine. This form of the collecting tubules. This increased secretion of H+ and of metabolic acidosis can be serious and can cause death, HCO − reabsorption leads to metabolic alkalosis. 3 especially in young children. Vomiting of Gastric Contents. Vomiting of the gastric Vomiting of Intestinal Contents. Vomiting of gastric contents alone, without vomiting of the lower gastrointesti- contents alone would cause a loss of acid and a tendency nal contents, causes loss of the HCl secreted by the stomach toward alkalosis because the stomach secretions are highly mucosa. The net result is loss of acid from the extracellu- acidic. However, vomiting large amounts from deeper in lar fluid and development
