Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


alkalosis because the stomach secretions are highly mucosa. The net result is loss of acid from the extracellu- acidic. However, vomiting large amounts from deeper in lar fluid and development of metabolic alkalosis. This type the gastrointestinal tract causes loss of bicarbonate and re- of alkalosis occurs especially in neonates who have pyloric sults in metabolic acidosis in the same way that diarrhea stenosis caused by hypertrophied pyloric sphincter muscles. causes acidosis. 417 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Ingestion of Alkaline Drugs. A common cause of meta- Arterial blood sample bolic alkalosis is ingestion of alkaline drugs, such as sodium bicarbonate, for the treatment of gastritis or peptic ulcer. Treatment of Acidosis or Alkalosis <7.4 >7.4 pH? The best treatment for acidosis or alkalosis is to correct the condition that caused the abnormality. This is often diffi- cult, especially in chronic diseases that cause impaired lung Acidosis Alkalosis f au gn enct ti so cn a o nr b k ei d un se ey d f ta oi l nu ere u. t rIn al it zh ee s the ec i er xc cu em sss t aa cn idce os r, v ba ar si eo u ins <2H 4C mO E3 q– /L >40P mCO m2 Hg >2H 4C mO E3 q– /L <40P mCO m2 Hg the extracellular fluid. Metabolic Respiratory Metabolic Respiratory To neutralize excess acid, large amounts of sodium bicar- bonate can be ingested by mouth. The sodium bicarbonate is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract into the blood and increases the HCO− portion of the bicarbonate buffer sys- Respiratory Renal Respiratory Renal 3 compensation compensation compensation compensation tem, thereby increasing pH toward normal. Sodium bicar- bonate can also be infused intravenously but, because of the PCO2 HCO 3– PCO2 HCO 3– potentially dangerous physiological effects of such treatment, <40 mm Hg >24 mEq/L >40 mm Hg <24 mEq/L other substances are often used instead, such as sodium lac- Figure 31- 10. Analysis of simple acid–base disorders. If the compen- tate and sodium gluconate. The lactate and gluconate por- satory responses are markedly different from those shown at the bot- tions of the molecules are metabolized in the body, leaving tom of the figure, one should suspect a mixed acid–base disorder. the sodium in the extracellular fluid in the form of sodium bicarbonate and thereby increasing the pH of the
