Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tom of the figure, one should suspect a mixed acid–base disorder. the sodium in the extracellular fluid in the form of sodium bicarbonate and thereby increasing the pH of the fluid to- For metabolic acidosis, there would also be a decrease in ward normal. plasma pH. However, with metabolic acidosis, the primary For the treatment of alkalosis, ammonium chloride can abnormality is a decrease in plasma HCO − concentration. 3 be administered by mouth. When ammonium chloride is Therefore, if a low pH is associated with a low HCO − con- 3 absorbed into the blood, the ammonia portion is converted centration, there must be a metabolic component to the by the liver into urea. This reaction liberates HCl, which acidosis. In simple metabolic acidosis, the Pco is reduced 2 immediately reacts with the buffers of the body fluids to because of partial respiratory compensation, in contrast to shift the H+ concentration in the acidic direction. Ammo- respiratory acidosis, in which Pco is increased. Therefore, 2 nium chloride occasionally is infused intravenously, but in simple metabolic acidosis, one would expect to find a low NH 4+ is highly toxic, and this procedure can be dangerous. pH, a low plasma HCO 3− concentration, and a reduction in The most appropriate treatment is to reverse the underly- Pco2 after partial respiratory compensation. ing cause of the alkalosis. For example, if metabolic alkalo- The procedures for categorizing the types of alkalosis sis is associated with extracellular fluid volume depletion, involve the same basic steps. First, alkalosis implies that but not heart failure, appropriate repletion of volume by there is an increase in plasma pH. If the increase in pH is infusion of isotonic saline solution is often beneficial in associated with decreased Pco , there must be a respira- 2 correcting the alkalosis. tory component to the alkalosis. If the rise in pH is asso- Clinical Measurements and Analysis of Acid–Base ciated with increased HCO 3−, there must be a metabolic Disorders component to the alkalosis. Therefore, in simple respiratory alkalosis, one would expect to find increased pH, decreased The appropriate therapy of acid– base disorders requires Pco2, and decreased HCO 3− concentration in the plasma. proper diagnosis. The simple acid–b ase disorders de- In simple metabolic alkalosis, one would expect to find in- scribed previously can be diagnosed by analyzing three creased pH, increased plasma HCO 3−, and increased Pco2. measurements from
