Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


concentra- 2 respiratory disorders. tions. In a clinical setting, the patient’s history and other When using this diagram, one must assume that suf- physical findings also provide important clues concerning ficient time has elapsed for a full compensatory response, the causes and treatment of the acid–base disorders. which is 6 to 12 hours for the ventilatory compensations in Use of Anion Gap to Diagnose Acid–Base Disorders primary metabolic disorders and 3 to 5 days for the meta- bolic compensations in primary respiratory disorders. If a The concentrations of anions and cations in plasma must be value is within the shaded area, this suggests that there is equal to maintain electrical neutrality. Therefore, there is no a simple acid–base disturbance. Conversely, if the values real anion gap in the plasma. However, only certain cations for pH, bicarbonate, or Pco lie outside the shaded area, and anions are routinely measured in the clinical labora- 2 this suggests that the patient may have a mixed acid–base tory. The cation normally measured is Na+, and the anions disorder. are usually Cl− and HCO−. The anion gap—which is only a 3 It is important to recognize that an acid–base value diagnostic concept— is the difference between unmeasured within the shaded area does not always mean that a sim- anions and unmeasured cations and is estimated as follows: ple acid–base disorder is present. With this reservation in mind, the acid–base diagrams can be used as a quick means Plasmaaniongap=[Na+]−[HCO 3−]−[Cl−] of determining the specific type and severity of an acid– =144−24−108=12mEq/L base disorder. For example, assume that the arterial plasma from a pa- The anion gap will increase if unmeasured anions rise tient yields the following values: pH, 7.30; plasma HCO − or if unmeasured cations fall. The most important unmeas- 3 concentration, 12.0 mEq/L; and plasma Pco , 25 mm Hg. ured cations include calcium, magnesium, and potassium, 2 With these values, one can look at the diagram and find and the major unmeasured anions are albumin, phosphate, that this represents a simple metabolic acidosis, with ap- sulfate, and other organic anions. Usually, the unmeasured propriate respiratory compensation that reduces the Pco anions exceed the unmeasured cations, and the anion gap 2 from its normal value of 40 mm Hg to 25 mm Hg. ranges between 8 and 16 mEq/L. 419 )L/qEm( ]– OCH[ amsalp lairetrA 3 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and
