Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


increased water excretion occurs secondary to inhibi- reabsorbed by the renal tubules, such as urea, mannitol, tion of tubular sodium reabsorption because sodium and sucrose, causes a marked increase in the concentra- remaining in the tubules acts osmotically to decrease tion of osmotically active molecules in the tubules. The water reabsorption. Because renal tubular reabsorption of osmotic pressure of these solutes then reduces water many solutes, such as potassium, chloride, magnesium, reabsorption, flushing large amounts of tubular fluid into and calcium, is also influenced secondarily by sodium the urine. reabsorption, many diuretics raise the renal excretion of Large volumes of urine are also formed in certain these solutes as well. diseases associated with excess solutes that fail to be The most common clinical use of diuretics is to reduce reabsorbed from the tubular fluid. For example, when extracellular fluid volume, especially in diseases associated blood glucose concentration rises to high levels in diabe- with edema and in hypertension. As discussed in Chap- tes mellitus, the increased filtered load of glucose into the ter 25, loss of sodium from the body mainly decreases tubules exceeds their capacity to reabsorb glucose (i.e., extracellular fluid volume; therefore, diuretics are usually exceeds their transport maximum for glucose). Above a administered in clinical conditions in which extracellular plasma glucose concentration of about 250 mg/dl, little of fluid volume is expanded. the extra glucose is reabsorbed by the tubules; instead, the Some diuretics can increase urine output more than excess glucose remains in the tubules, acts as an osmotic 20-f old within a few minutes after they are administered. diuretic, and increases urine flow rate. Therefore, one of However, the effect of most diuretics on renal output of the hallmarks of uncontrolled diabetes mellitus is poly- salt and water subsides within a few days due to activa- uria (frequent urination), which is balanced by a high tion of compensatory mechanisms initiated by decreased level of fluid intake (polydipsia) secondary to dehydration, extracellular fluid volume (Figure 32- 1). For example, a increased extracellular fluid osmolarity, and activation of decrease in extracellular fluid volume may reduce arte- the thirst mechanism. rial pressure and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and Loop Diuretics Decrease Sodium- Chloride- increase renin secretion and angiotensin II (Ang II) for- Potassium Reabsorption in the Thick mation; all these responses together eventually override Ascending Loop of Henle the chronic effects of the diuretic on urine output. Thus,
