Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


II (Ang II) for- Potassium Reabsorption in the Thick mation; all these responses together eventually override Ascending Loop of Henle the chronic effects of the diuretic on urine output. Thus, in the steady state, urine output becomes equal to intake, but Furosemide, ethacrynic acid, and bumetanide are powerful only after reductions in arterial pressure and extracellular diuretics that decrease reabsorption in the thick ascend- fluid volume have occurred, relieving the hypertension or ing limb of the loop of Henle by blocking the 1- sodium, edema that prompted the use of diuretics in the first place. 2- chloride, 1- potassium co- transporter located in the The many diuretics available for clinical use have dif- luminal membrane of the epithelial cells (see Figure 28- ferent mechanisms of action and, therefore, inhibit tubu- 9). These loop diuretics are among the most powerful of lar reabsorption at different sites along the renal nephron. the clinically used diuretics. 421 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys By blocking sodium- chloride- potassium co- transport the kidneys to concentrate or dilute the urine. Urinary in the luminal membrane of the loop of Henle, the loop dilution is impaired because the inhibition of sodium and diuretics increase urine output of sodium, chloride, chloride reabsorption in the loop of Henle causes more potassium, and other electrolytes, as well as water, for of these ions to be excreted, along with increased water two reasons: (1) they greatly increase the quantities of excretion. Urine concentrating ability is impaired because solutes delivered to the distal parts of the nephrons, and the renal medullary interstitial fluid concentration of these solutes act as osmotic agents to prevent water these ions, and therefore renal medullary osmolarity, is reabsorption; and (2) they disrupt the countercurrent reduced. Consequently, reabsorption of fluid from the col- multiplier system by decreasing absorption of ions lecting ducts is decreased, so the maximal concentrating from the loop of Henle into the medullary interstitium, ability of the kidneys is also greatly reduced. In addition, thereby decreasing the osmolarity of the medullary inter- decreased renal medullary interstitial fluid osmolarity stitial fluid. Therefore, loop diuretics impair the ability of reduces reabsorption of water from the descending loop of Henle. Because of these multiple effects, 20% to 30% Diuretic therapy of the glomerular filtrate may be delivered into the urine, causing urine output, under acute conditions, to be as great as 25 times normal
