Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


effects, 20% to 30% Diuretic therapy of the glomerular filtrate may be delivered into the urine, causing urine output, under acute conditions, to be as great as 25 times normal for at least a few minutes. 200 Excretion Thiazide Diuretics Inhibit Sodium- Chloride Reabsorption in the Early Distal Tubule 100 Intake The thiazide derivatives, such as chlorothiazide, act mainly on the early distal tubules to block the sodium- chloride co- transporter in the luminal membrane of the tubular cells (see Figure 28- 10). Under favorable condi- 15.0 tions, these agents may cause a maximum of 5% to 10% of the glomerular filtrate to pass into the urine, which is about the same amount of sodium normally reabsorbed 14.0 by the distal tubules. Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Block 13.0 Sodium Bicarbonate Reabsorption Acetazolamide inhibits the enzyme carbonic anhy- −4 −2 0 2 4 6 8 drase, which is critical for reabsorption of bicarbonate Time (days) (HCO −) in the renal tubules, as discussed in Chapter 31. 3 Figure 32- 1. Sodium excretion and extracellular fluid volume during Carbonic anhydrase is especially abundant in the proxi- diuretic administration. The immediate increase in sodium excretion mal tubule, the primary site of action of carbonic anhy- is accompanied by a decrease in extracellular fluid volume. If sodium intake is held constant, compensatory mechanisms will eventually re- drase inhibitors. Some carbonic anhydrase is also present turn sodium excretion to equal sodium intake, thus re-e stablishing in other tubular cells, such as in the intercalated cells of sodium balance. the collecting tubule. Table 32- 1 Classes of Diuretics, Their Mechanisms of Action, and Tubular Sites of Action Class of Diuretic (examples) Mechanism of Action Tubular Site of Action Osmotic diuretics (mannitol) Inhibit water and solute reabsorption by Mainly proximal tubules increasing osmolarity of tubular fluid Loop diuretics (furosemide, Inhibit Na+- K+- Cl− co- transport in luminal Thick ascending loop of bumetanide) membrane Henle Thiazide diuretics (hydrochloro- Inhibit Na+- Cl− co- transport in luminal Early distal tubules thiazide, chlorthalidone) membrane Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors Inhibit H+ secretion and HCO − reabsorption, Mainly proximal tubules 3 (acetazolamide) which reduces Na+ reabsorption Aldosterone antagonists Inhibit action of aldosterone on tubular receptor, Collecting tubules (spironolactone, eplerenone) decrease Na+ reabsorption, decrease K+ secretion Sodium channel blockers Block entry of Na+ into Na+ channels of Collecting tubules (triamterene, amiloride) luminal membrane, decrease Na+ reabsorption, decrease K+ secretion 422 ro noitercxe muidoS diulf ralullecartxE )yad/qEm(
