Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Sodium channel blockers Block entry of Na+ into Na+ channels of Collecting tubules (triamterene, amiloride) luminal membrane, decrease Na+ reabsorption, decrease K+ secretion 422 ro noitercxe muidoS diulf ralullecartxE )yad/qEm( ekatni muidos )sretil( emulov Chapter 32 Diuretics and Kidney Diseases Because hydrogen ion (H+) secretion and HCO 3− KIDNEY DISEASES reabsorption in the proximal tubules are coupled to sodium reabsorption through the sodium- hydrogen ion Diseases of the kidneys are among the most important counter- transport mechanism in the luminal membrane, causes of death and disability in many countries through- decreasing HCO − reabsorption also reduces sodium out the world. For example, in 2018, more than 14% of 3 reabsorption. The blockage of sodium and HCO − reab- adults in the United States, or more than 30 million peo- 3 sorption from the tubular fluid causes these ions to remain ple, were estimated to have chronic kidney disease, and in the tubules and act as an osmotic diuretic. Predictably, many more millions have acute renal injury or less severe a disadvantage of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is that forms of kidney dysfunction. they cause some degree of acidosis because of the exces- Severe kidney diseases can be divided into two main sive loss of HCO − in the urine. categories: 3 1. Acute kidney injury (AKI), in which there is an Mineralocorticoid Receptor Antagonists abrupt loss of kidney function within a few days. Decrease Sodium Reabsorption From and The term acute renal failure is usually reserved for Potassium Secretion Into the Collecting severe acute kidney injury, in which the kidneys Tubules may abruptly stop working entirely or almost en- Spironolactone and eplerenone are mineralocorticoid tirely, necessitating renal replacement therapy such receptor antagonists that compete with aldosterone for as dialysis, as discussed later in this chapter. In some receptor- binding sites in the collecting tubule and col- cases, patients with AKI may eventually recover lecting duct epithelial cells and, therefore, can decrease nearly normal kidney function. the reabsorption of sodium and secretion of potassium 2. Chronic kidney disease (CKD), in which there is in these tubular segments (see Figure 28- 12). As a con- progressive loss of function of more and more sequence, sodium remains in the tubules and acts as an nephrons that gradually decreases overall kidney osmotic diuretic, causing increased excretion of water, as function. well as sodium. Because these drugs also block the effect Within these two general
