Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


an nephrons that gradually decreases overall kidney osmotic diuretic, causing increased excretion of water, as function. well as sodium. Because these drugs also block the effect Within these two general categories, there are many of aldosterone to promote potassium secretion in the specific kidney diseases that can affect the kidney blood tubules, they decrease the excretion of potassium. vessels, glomeruli, tubules, renal interstitium, and parts of Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists also cause the urinary tract outside the kidney, including the ureters movement of potassium from the cells to the extra- and bladder. In this chapter, we discuss specific physio- cellular fluid. In some cases, this movement causes logic abnormalities that occur in a few of the more impor- extracellular fluid potassium concentration to increase tant types of kidney diseases. excessively. For this reason, spironolactone and other mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists are referred to as ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY potassium- sparing diuretics. Many of the other diuretics cause loss of potassium in the urine, in contrast to the The causes of AKI are often divided into three main mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists, which spare the categories: loss of potassium. 1. AKI resulting from decreased blood supply to the kidneys. This condition is often referred to as pre- Sodium Channel Blockers Decrease renal AKI to reflect an abnormality originating out- Sodium Reabsorption in the Collecting side the kidneys. For example, prerenal AKI can be Tubules a consequence of heart failure with reduced cardiac Amiloride and triamterene also inhibit sodium reabsorp- output and low blood pressure or conditions as- tion and potassium secretion in the collecting tubules, sociated with diminished blood volume and low similar to the effects of spironolactone. However, at the blood pressure, such as severe hemorrhage. cellular level, these drugs act directly to block the entry 2. Intrarenal AKI resulting from abnormalities with- of sodium into the sodium channels of the luminal mem- in the kidney itself, including those that affect the brane of the collecting tubule epithelial cells (see Figure blood vessels, glomeruli, or tubules. 28- 12). Because of this decreased sodium entry into the 3. Postrenal AKI, resulting from obstruction of the epithelial cells, there is also decreased sodium transport urinary collecting system anywhere from the caly- across the cells’ basolateral membranes and, therefore, ces to the outflow from the bladder. The most decreased activity of the sodium- potassium–adenos- common causes of obstruction of the urinary tract ine triphosphatase pump (Na+- K+
