Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and, therefore, ces to the outflow from the bladder. The most decreased activity of the sodium- potassium–adenos- common causes of obstruction of the urinary tract ine triphosphatase pump (Na+- K+ ATPase pump). This outside the kidney are kidney stones, caused by decreased activity reduces the transport of potassium into precipitation of calcium, urate, or cystine. the cells and ultimately decreases the secretion of potas- In some important causes of AKI, such as sepsis, sium into the tubular fluid. For this reason, the sodium prerenal (e.g., reduced blood pressure) and intrarenal channel blockers are also potassium- sparing diuretics and (endothelial and tubular injury) abnormalities may occur decrease the urinary excretion rate of potassium. simultaneously. 423 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys PRERENAL ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY Table 32- 2 Some Causes of Prerenal Acute Kidney CAUSED BY DECREASED BLOOD FLOW Injury TO THE KIDNEY Intravascular Volume Depletion Hemorrhage (e.g., trauma, surgery, postpartum, The kidneys normally receive an abundant blood supply gastrointestinal) of about 1100 ml/min, or about 20% to 25% of the car- Diarrhea or vomiting diac output. The main purpose of this high blood flow to Burns the kidneys is to provide enough plasma for the high rates of glomerular filtration needed for effective regulation of Cardiac Failure body fluid volumes and solute concentrations. Therefore, Myocardial infarction decreased renal blood flow is usually accompanied by Valvular damage decreased GFR and decreased urine output of water and Peripheral vasodilation and resultant hypotension solutes. Consequently, conditions that acutely diminish Anaphylactic shock blood flow to the kidneys usually cause oliguria, which Anesthesia refers to diminished urine output below the level of intake Sepsis, severe infections of water and solutes. This condition causes accumula- Primary renal hemodynamic abnormalities tion of water and solutes in the body fluids. If renal blood Renal artery stenosis, embolism, or thrombosis of renal flow is markedly reduced, total cessation of urine output artery or vein can occur, a condition referred to as anuria. As long as renal blood flow does not fall below about 20% to 25% of normal, AKI can usually be reversed if Table 32- 3 Some Causes of Intrarenal Acute Kidney the cause of the ischemia is corrected before damage Injury to the renal cells has occurred. Unlike some tissues, the kidney can endure a relatively large reduction in blood Small vessel and/or glomerular injury flow before there is major damage to the renal
