Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cells has occurred. Unlike some tissues, the kidney can endure a relatively large reduction in blood Small vessel and/or glomerular injury flow before there is major damage to the renal cells. The Vasculitis (polyarteritis nodosa) reason for this phenomenon is that as renal blood flow Cholesterol emboli is reduced, the GFR and amount of sodium chloride fil- Malignant hypertension tered by the glomeruli (as well as the filtration rate of Acute glomerulonephritis water and other electrolytes) are reduced. This decreases Tubular epithelial injury (tubular necrosis) the amount of sodium chloride that must be reabsorbed Acute tubular necrosis due to ischemia by the tubules, which use most of the energy and oxy- Acute tubular necrosis due to toxins (e.g., heavy metals, gen consumed by the normal kidney. Therefore, as renal ethylene glycol, insecticides, poison mushrooms, blood flow and GFR fall, renal oxygen consumption is also carbon tetrachloride) reduced. As the GFR approaches zero, oxygen consump- Renal interstitial injury tion of the kidney approaches the rate that is required to Acute pyelonephritis keep the renal tubular cells alive when they are not reab- Acute allergic interstitial nephritis sorbing sodium. When blood flow is reduced below this basal requirement, which is usually less than 20% to 25% of the normal renal blood flow, the renal cells become further divided into the following: (1) conditions that hypoxic, and further decreases in renal blood flow, if pro- injure the glomerular capillaries or other small renal ves- longed, will cause damage or even death of the renal cells, sels; (2) conditions that damage the renal tubular epithe- especially the tubular epithelial cells. lium; and (3) conditions that cause damage to the renal If the cause of prerenal AKI is not corrected, and interstitium. This type of classification refers to the pri- ischemia of the kidney persists longer than a few hours, mary site of injury, but because the renal vasculature and this type of renal failure can evolve into intrarenal AKI, tubular system are functionally interdependent, damage as discussed later. Acute reduction of renal blood flow is to the renal blood vessels can lead to tubular damage, and a common cause of AKI in hospitalized patients, espe- primary tubular damage can lead to damage of the renal cially those who have sustained severe injuries. Table 32- blood vessels. Some causes of intrarenal acute kidney 2 shows some of the common causes of decreased renal injury are
