Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


renal cially those who have sustained severe injuries. Table 32- blood vessels. Some causes of intrarenal acute kidney 2 shows some of the common causes of decreased renal injury are listed in Table 32- 3. blood flow and prerenal AKI. Acute Kidney Injury Caused by INTRARENAL ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY Glomerulonephritis CAUSED BY ABNORMALITIES IN THE Acute glomerulonephritis is a type of intrarenal AKI usu- KIDNEY ally caused by an abnormal immune reaction that dam- Abnormalities that originate in the kidney and that ages the glomeruli. In about 95% of patients with this abruptly diminish urine output fall into the general cat- disease, damage to the glomeruli occurs 1 to 3 weeks egory of intrarenal AKI. This category of AKI can be after an infection elsewhere in the body, often caused by 424 Chapter 32 Diuretics and Kidney Diseases certain types of group A beta streptococci. The infection Some of these substances are carbon tetrachloride, heavy may have been a streptococcal sore throat, streptococcal metals (e.g., mercury and lead), ethylene glycol (which is tonsillitis, or even streptococcal infection of the skin. It is a major component in antifreeze), various insecticides, not the infection itself that damages the kidneys. Instead, some medications (e.g., tetracyclines) used as antibiotics, over a few weeks, as antibodies develop against the strep- and cis- platinum, used in treating certain cancers. Each tococcal antigen, the antibodies and antigen react with of these substances has a specific toxic action on the renal each other to form an insoluble immune complex that tubular epithelial cells, causing death of many of them. As becomes entrapped in the glomeruli, especially in the a result, the epithelial cells slough away from the base- basement membrane portion of the glomeruli. ment membrane and plug the tubules. In some cases, the Once the immune complex has been deposited in the basement membrane also is destroyed. If the basement glomeruli, many of the glomerular cells begin to prolifer- membrane remains intact, new tubular epithelial cells can ate, but mainly the mesangial cells that lie between the grow along the surface of the membrane, so the tubule endothelium and epithelium. In addition, large numbers may repair itself within 10 to 20 days. of white blood cells become entrapped in the glomeruli. POSTRENAL ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY Many of the glomeruli become blocked by this inflam- CAUSED BY ABNORMALITIES OF THE matory reaction, and those that are not blocked
