Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


entrapped in the glomeruli. POSTRENAL ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY Many of the glomeruli become blocked by this inflam- CAUSED BY ABNORMALITIES OF THE matory reaction, and those that are not blocked usually LOWER URINARY TRACT become excessively permeable, allowing protein and red blood cells to leak from the blood of the glomerular capil- Multiple abnormalities in the lower urinary tract can laries into the glomerular filtrate. In severe cases, total or block or partially block urine flow and therefore lead to almost complete renal shutdown occurs. AKI, even when the kidneys’ blood supply and other func- The acute inflammation of the glomeruli usually sub- tions are initially normal. If the urine output of only one sides in about 2 weeks and, in most patients, the kidneys kidney is diminished, no major change in body fluid com- return to almost normal function within the next few position will occur because the contralateral kidney can weeks to few months. Sometimes, however, many of the increase its urine output sufficiently to maintain relatively glomeruli are destroyed beyond repair and, in a small normal levels of extracellular electrolytes and solutes, as percentage of patients, progressive renal deterioration well as normal extracellular fluid volume. With this type continues indefinitely, leading to CKD, as described in a of renal injury, normal kidney function can be restored if subsequent section of this chapter. the basic cause of the problem is corrected within a few Tubular Necrosis as a Cause of Acute hours. However, chronic obstruction of the urinary tract Kidney Injury that lasts for several days or weeks can lead to irrevers- ible kidney damage. Some of the causes of postrenal AKI Another cause of intrarenal acute renal failure is tubular include the following: (1) bilateral obstruction of the ure- necrosis, which means destruction of epithelial cells in the ters or renal pelvises caused by large stones or blood clots; tubules. Some common causes of tubular necrosis are as fol- (2) bladder obstruction; and (3) obstruction of the urethra. lows: (1) severe ischemia and inadequate supply of oxygen and nutrients to the tubular epithelial cells; and (2) poisons, PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF ACUTE toxins, or medications that destroy the tubular epithelial cells. KIDNEY INJURY Acute Tubular Necrosis Caused by Severe Renal Is- A major physiological effect of AKI is the retention of chemia. Severe ischemia of the kidney can result from water, waste products of metabolism, and electrolytes in
