Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Severe Renal Is- A major physiological effect of AKI is the retention of chemia. Severe ischemia of the kidney can result from water, waste products of metabolism, and electrolytes in circulatory shock or other disturbances that severely im- the blood and extracellular fluid. This can lead to water pair the blood supply to the kidneys. If the ischemia is and salt overload, which, in turn, can lead to edema and severe enough to seriously impair the delivery of nutrients hypertension. Excessive retention of potassium, how- and oxygen to the renal tubular epithelial cells, and if the ever, is often a more serious threat to patients with AKI insult is prolonged, damage or eventual destruction of the because increases in the plasma potassium concentration epithelial cells can occur. When this damage occurs, tu- (hyperkalemia) above 8 mEq/L (only twice normal) can bular cells slough off and plug many of the nephrons so be fatal. Because the kidneys are also unable to excrete that there is no urine output from the blocked nephrons; sufficient hydrogen ions, patients with AKI may experi- the affected nephrons often fail to excrete urine, even ence metabolic acidosis, which in itself can be lethal or when renal blood flow is restored to normal, as long as can aggravate the hyperkalemia. the tubules remain plugged. The most common causes of In the most severe cases of AKI, complete anuria occurs. ischemic damage to the tubular epithelium are the pre- The patient will die in 8 to 14 days unless kidney function renal causes of AKI associated with circulatory shock, as is restored or unless an artificial kidney is used to rid the discussed earlier in this chapter. body of the excessive retained water, electrolytes, and Acute Tubular Necrosis Caused by Toxins or Medica- waste products of metabolism. Other effects of diminished tions. There is a long list of renal poisons and medications urine output, as well as treatment with an artificial kidney, that can damage the tubular epithelium and cause AKI. are discussed in the next section in relation to CKD. 425 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys Table 32- 4 Some Causes of Chronic Kidney Disease Primary kidney disease Metabolic Disorders Diabetes mellitus Obesity + Nephron number Amyloidosis Hypertension Renal Vascular Disorders Atherosclerosis Nephrosclerosis- hypertension Immunological Disorders Hypertrophy Glomerulonephritis Glomerular and vasodilation of surviving sclerosis Polyarteritis nodosa nephrons Lupus erythematosus Infections Arterial Pyelonephritis pressure
