Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


+ Nephron number Amyloidosis Hypertension Renal Vascular Disorders Atherosclerosis Nephrosclerosis- hypertension Immunological Disorders Hypertrophy Glomerulonephritis Glomerular and vasodilation of surviving sclerosis Polyarteritis nodosa nephrons Lupus erythematosus Infections Arterial Pyelonephritis pressure Tuberculosis Glomerular Primary Tubular Disorders pressure and/or Nephrotoxins (analgesics, heavy metals) filtration Urinary Tract Obstruction Renal calculi Figure 32- 2. Shown is the vicious cycle that can occur with primary kidney disease. Loss of nephrons because of disease may increase Hypertrophy of prostate pressure and flow in the surviving glomerular capillaries, which in turn Urethral constriction may eventually injure these normal capillaries as well, thus causing Congenital Disorders progressive sclerosis and eventual loss of these glomeruli. Polycystic disease Congenital absence of kidney tissue (renal hypoplasia) undergo dialysis treatment or transplantation with a functional kidney to survive. This condition is referred to as end- stage renal disease (ESRD). CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASE IS OFTEN Experimental studies have shown that surgical removal ASSOCIATED WITH IRREVERSIBLE of large portions of the kidney initially causes adap- LOSS OF FUNCTIONAL NEPHRONS tive changes in the remaining nephrons, which lead to increased blood flow, increased GFR, and increased urine CKD is usually defined as the presence of kidney dam- output in the surviving nephrons. The exact mechanisms age or decreased kidney function that persists for at least responsible for these changes are not well understood but 3 months. CKD is often associated with progressive and involve hypertrophy (growth of the various structures of irreversible loss of large numbers of functioning neph- the surviving nephrons), as well as functional changes that rons. Serious clinical symptoms usually do not occur until decrease vascular resistance and tubular reabsorption in the number of functional nephrons falls to at least 70% to the surviving nephrons. These adaptive changes permit a 75% below normal. In fact, relatively normal blood con- person to excrete normal amounts of water and solutes, centrations of most electrolytes and normal body fluid even when kidney mass is reduced to 20% to 25% of normal. volumes can still be maintained until the number of func- Over a period of several years, however, these renal adap- tioning nephrons decreases below 20% to 25% of normal. tive changes may lead to further injury of the remaining Table 32- 4 lists some of the most important causes nephrons, particularly to the glomeruli of these nephrons. of CKD. In general, CKD, like AKI, can occur because of This progressive injury may be related
