Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the most important causes nephrons, particularly to the glomeruli of these nephrons. of CKD. In general, CKD, like AKI, can occur because of This progressive injury may be related in part to increased disorders of the blood vessels, glomeruli, tubules, renal pressure or stretch of the remaining glomeruli, which occurs interstitium, and lower urinary tract. Despite the wide as a result of functional vasodilation of afferent arterioles or variety of diseases that can lead to CKD, the end result is increased blood pressure. The chronic increase in pressure essentially the same—a decrease in the number of func- and stretch of the small arterioles and glomeruli are believed tional nephrons. to cause injury and sclerosis of these vessels (replacement of VICIOUS CYCLE OF CHRONIC KIDNEY normal tissue with connective tissue). These sclerotic lesions DISEASE LEADING TO END-S TAGE RENAL can eventually obliterate the glomerulus, leading to further DISEASE reduction in kidney function, further adaptive changes in the remaining nephrons, and a slowly progressing vicious cycle In some cases, an initial insult to the kidney leads to that eventually terminates in ESRD (Figure 32- 2). The most progressive deterioration of kidney function and further effective method of slowing down this progressive loss of loss of nephrons to the point where the person must kidney function is to lower arterial pressure and glomerular 426 Chapter 32 Diuretics and Kidney Diseases Table 32- 5 Most Common Causes of End-S tage Renal 2.5 Disease (ESRD) 2.0 Total No. of Patients Cause With ESRD (%) 1.5 Diabetes mellitus 45 Hypertension 27 1.0 Glomerulonephritis 8 Polycystic kidney disease 2 0.5 Other, unknown 18 0.0 0 20 40 60 80 hydrostatic pressure, especially by using drugs such as Age (years) angiotensin-c onverting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or Ang II Figure 32- 3. Effect of aging on the number of functional glomeruli. receptor antagonists. Table 32- 5 lists the most common causes of ESRD. In through the intimal membrane of these vessels. This leak- the early 1980s, glomerulonephritis in all its various forms age causes fibrinoid deposits to develop in the medial lay- was believed to be the most common initiating cause of ers of these vessels, followed by progressive thickening of ESRD. More recently, diabetes mellitus and hypertension the vessel wall that eventually constricts the vessels and, have become recognized as the leading causes of ESRD, in some cases, occludes them. Because there is essentially together accounting for
