Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the vessel wall that eventually constricts the vessels and, have become recognized as the leading causes of ESRD, in some cases, occludes them. Because there is essentially together accounting for more than 70% of all ESRD. no collateral circulation among the smaller renal arteries, Excessive weight gain (obesity) appears to be the most occlusion of one or more of them causes destruction of important risk factor for the two main causes of ESRD— a comparable number of nephrons. Therefore, much of diabetes and hypertension. As discussed in Chapter 79, the kidney tissue becomes replaced by small amounts of type 2 diabetes, which is closely linked to obesity, accounts fibrous tissue. When sclerosis occurs in the glomeruli, the for more than 90% of all cases of diabetes mellitus. Excess injury is referred to as glomerulosclerosis. weight gain is also a major cause of essential hyperten- Nephrosclerosis and glomerulosclerosis occur to some sion, accounting for 65% to 75% of the risk for developing extent in most people after the fourth decade of life, caus- hypertension in adults. In addition to causing renal injury ing about a 10% decrease in the number of functional through diabetes and hypertension, obesity may have additive or synergistic effects to worsen renal function in nephrons for every 10 years after the age of 40 years (Fig- patients with pre- existing kidney disease. ure 32- 3). This loss of glomeruli and overall nephron func- tion is reflected by a progressive decrease in renal blood INJURY TO RENAL BLOOD VESSELS AS A flow and GFR. Even in healthy people without underlying CAUSE OF CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASE hypertension or diabetes, renal plasma flow and GFR may decrease by 40% to 50% by the age of 80 years. Many types of vascular lesions can lead to renal ischemia The frequency and severity of nephrosclerosis and and death of kidney tissue. The most common of these glomerulosclerosis are greatly increased by concurrent lesions are the following: (1) atherosclerosis of the larger hypertension or diabetes mellitus. Thus, benign nephro- renal arteries, with progressive sclerotic constriction of sclerosis in association with severe hypertension can lead the vessels; (2) fibromuscular hyperplasia of one or more to a rapidly progressing malignant nephrosclerosis. The of the large arteries, which also causes occlusion of the characteristic histological features of malignant nephro- vessels; and (3) nephrosclerosis, caused by sclerotic lesions sclerosis include large amounts of fibrinoid deposits in of
