Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


arteries, which also causes occlusion of the characteristic histological features of malignant nephro- vessels; and (3) nephrosclerosis, caused by sclerotic lesions sclerosis include large amounts of fibrinoid deposits in of the smaller arteries, arterioles, and glomeruli. the arterioles and progressive thickening of the vessels, Atherosclerotic or hyperplastic lesions of the large with severe ischemia occurring in the affected nephrons. arteries frequently affect one kidney more than the For unknown reasons, the incidence of malignant neph- other and, therefore, cause unilaterally diminished kid- rosclerosis and severe glomerulosclerosis is significantly ney function. As discussed in Chapter 19, hypertension higher in blacks than in whites of similar ages who have often occurs when the artery of one kidney is constricted similar degrees of severity of hypertension or diabetes. while the artery of the other kidney is still normal, a condition analogous to so-c alled two- kidney Goldblatt INJURY TO THE GLOMERULI AS hypertension. A CAUSE OF CHRONIC KIDNEY Benign nephrosclerosis, the most common form of kid- DISEASE—GLOMERULONEPHRITIS ney disease, is seen to at least some extent in about 70% Chronic glomerulonephritis can be caused by several of postmortem examinations in people who die after the diseases that cause inflammation and damage to the glo- age of 60 years. This type of vascular lesion occurs in the merular capillary loops of the kidneys. In contrast to the smaller interlobular arteries and in the afferent arterioles acute form of this disease, chronic glomerulonephritis is a of the kidney. It is believed to begin with leakage of plasma 427 )601×( iluremolG UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys slowly progressive disease that often leads to irreversible one of the primary functions of the medulla is to provide renal failure. It may be a primary kidney disease, follow- the countercurrent mechanism for concentrating urine, ing acute glomerulonephritis, or it may be secondary to patients with pyelonephritis frequently have markedly a systemic disease, such as systemic lupus erythematosus. impaired ability to concentrate the urine. In most cases, chronic glomerulonephritis begins with With long- standing pyelonephritis, invasion of the accumulation of precipitated antigen- antibody com- kidneys by bacteria not only causes damage to the renal plexes in the glomerular membrane. In contrast to acute medulla interstitium but also progressive damage of renal glomerulonephritis, streptococcal infections account tubules, glomeruli, and other structures throughout the for only a small percentage of patients with the chronic kidney. Consequently, large parts
