Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


also progressive damage of renal glomerulonephritis, streptococcal infections account tubules, glomeruli, and other structures throughout the for only a small percentage of patients with the chronic kidney. Consequently, large parts of functional renal tis- form of glomerulonephritis. Accumulation of antigen- sue are lost, and CKD can develop. antibody complex in the glomerular membranes causes NEPHROTIC SYNDROME—EXCRETION OF inflammation, progressive thickening of the membranes, PROTEIN IN THE URINE and eventual invasion of the glomeruli by fibrous tissue. In later stages of the disease, the glomerular capillary Nephrotic syndrome, characterized by the loss of large filtration coefficient becomes greatly reduced because quantities of plasma proteins into the urine, develops in of decreased numbers of filtering capillaries in the glo- many patients with kidney disease. In some cases, this merular tufts and because of thickened glomerular mem- syndrome occurs without evidence of other major abnor- branes. In the final stages of the disease, many glomeruli malities of kidney function, but it is usually associated are replaced by fibrous tissue and are unable to filter fluid. with some degree of CKD. INJURY TO THE RENAL INTERSTITIUM AS The cause of the protein loss in the urine is usually A CAUSE OF CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASE— increased permeability of the glomerular membrane. INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS Therefore, any disease that increases the permeability of this membrane can cause the nephrotic syndrome. Such Primary or secondary disease of the renal interstitium is diseases include the following: (1) chronic glomerulonephri- referred to as interstitial nephritis. In general, this condi- tis, which affects primarily the glomeruli and often causes tion can result from vascular, glomerular, or tubular dam- greatly increased permeability of the glomerular mem- age that destroys individual nephrons, or it can involve brane; (2) amyloidosis, which results from deposition of primary damage to the renal interstitium by poisons, an abnormal proteinoid substance in the walls of the blood drugs, and bacterial infections. vessels and seriously damages the basement membrane of Renal interstitial injury caused by bacterial infection is the glomeruli; and (3) minimal- change nephrotic syndrome, called pyelonephritis. The infection can result from differ- which is associated with no major abnormality in the glo- ent types of bacteria but especially from Escherichia coli, merular capillary membrane that can be detected with which originate from fecal contamination of the urinary light microscopy. As discussed in Chapter 27, minimal- tract. These bacteria reach the kidneys either by way of change nephropathy
