Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


detected with which originate from fecal contamination of the urinary light microscopy. As discussed in Chapter 27, minimal- tract. These bacteria reach the kidneys either by way of change nephropathy has been associated with an abnormal the blood stream or, more commonly, by ascension from immune response and increased T-c ell secretion of cyto- the lower urinary tract via the ureters to the kidneys. kines that cause podocyte injury and increased permeabil- Although the normal bladder is able to clear bacteria ity to lower molecular weight proteins, such as albumin. readily, there are two general clinical conditions that may Minimal- change nephropathy can occur in adults, but interfere with the normal flushing of bacteria from the more frequently it occurs in children between the ages bladder: (1) the inability of the bladder to empty completely, of 2 and 6 years. Increased permeability of the glomeru- leaving residual urine in the bladder; and (2) obstruction of lar capillary membrane occasionally allows as much as urine outflow. With impaired ability to flush bacteria from 40 grams of plasma protein loss into the urine each day, the bladder, the bacteria multiply, and the bladder becomes which is an extreme amount for a young child. There- inflamed, a condition termed cystitis. Once cystitis occurs, fore, the child’s plasma protein concentration often falls it may remain localized without ascending to the kidney or, below 2 g/dl, and the colloid osmotic pressure falls from in some people, bacteria may reach the renal pelvis because a normal value of 28 mm Hg to less than 10 mm Hg. As of a pathological condition in which urine is propelled up a consequence of this low colloid osmotic pressure in the one or both of the ureters during micturition. This condi- plasma, large amounts of fluid leak from the capillaries tion is called vesicoureteral reflux and is due to failure of the all over the body into most of the tissues, causing severe bladder wall to occlude the ureter during micturition; as a edema, as discussed in Chapter 25. result, some of the urine is propelled upward toward the kidney, carrying with it bacteria that can reach the renal NEPHRON FUNCTION IN CHRONIC KIDNEY pelvis and renal medulla, where they can initiate infection DISEASE and inflammation associated with pyelonephritis. Loss of Functional Nephrons Requires Surviving Pyelonephritis begins in the renal medulla and there- fore usually affects the function of
