Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


they can initiate infection DISEASE and inflammation associated with pyelonephritis. Loss of Functional Nephrons Requires Surviving Pyelonephritis begins in the renal medulla and there- fore usually affects the function of the medulla more than Nephrons to Excrete More Water and Solutes. It would it affects the cortex, at least in the initial stages. Because be reasonable to suspect that decreasing the number of 428 Chapter 32 Diuretics and Kidney Diseases 100 50 A Creatinine Urea 0 2 B PO 4 H+ 1 C Na+, Cl– 0 0 25 50 75 100 Glomerular filtration rate (percentage of normal) Positive balance Production 2 Figure 32- 5. Representative patterns of adaptation for different types of solutes in chronic renal failure. Curve A shows the approxi- mate changes in the plasma concentrations of solutes such as creati- Excretion GFR × P Creatinine nine and urea that are filtered and poorly reabsorbed. Curve B shows 1 the approximate concentrations for solutes such as phosphate, urate, and hydrogen ion. Curve C shows the approximate concentrations for solutes such as sodium and chloride. 0 0 1 2 3 4 Days until excretion rate of creatinine returns to normal— Figure 32- 4. Effect of reducing the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) the same rate at which creatinine is produced in the by 50% on the serum creatinine concentration and creatinine excre- body (Figure 32- 4). Thus, under steady- state conditions, tion rate when the production rate of creatinine remains constant. creatinine excretion rate equals the rate of creatinine pro- duction, despite reductions in GFR; however, this normal rate of creatinine excretion occurs at the expense of an functional nephrons, which reduces the GFR, would also elevated plasma creatinine concentration, as shown in cause major decreases in renal excretion of water and sol- curve A of Figure 32- 4. utes. Yet, patients who have lost up to 75% to 80% of their Some solutes, such as phosphate, urate, and hydro- nephrons are able to excrete normal amounts of water gen ions, are often maintained near the normal range and electrolytes without serious accumulation of fluid or until GFR falls below 20% to 30% of normal. Thereafter, most electrolytes in the body fluids. Further reduction in the plasma concentrations of these substances rise, but the number of nephrons, however, leads to electrolyte and not in proportion to the fall in GFR, as shown in curve fluid retention, and death usually ensues
