Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


high concen- nephrons of diseased kidneys is that the renal tubules lose trations of other substances excreted by the kidney, includ- their ability to concentrate or dilute the urine fully. The con- ing phenols, sulfates, phosphates, potassium, and guanidine centrating ability of the kidney is impaired mainly because bases. This total condition is called uremia because of the of the following: (1) the rapid flow of tubular fluid through high concentration of urea in the body fluids. the collecting ducts prevents adequate water reabsorption; Water Retention and Development of Edema in Chronic and (2) the rapid flow through both the loop of Henle and Kidney Disease. If water intake is restricted immediately af- collecting ducts prevents the countercurrent mechanism ter acute kidney injury begins, the total body fluid content from operating effectively to concentrate the medullary may become only slightly increased. If fluid intake is not lim- interstitial fluid solutes. Therefore, as progressively more ited, and the patient drinks in response to the normal thirst nephrons are destroyed, the maximum concentrating abil- mechanisms, the body fluids begin to increase rapidly. ity of the kidney declines, and urine osmolarity and specific As long as salt and fluid intake are not excessive, accu- gravity approach the osmolarity and specific gravity of the mulation of fluid in CKD may not be severe until kidney function falls to 25% of normal or lower. The reason for glomerular filtrate, as shown in Figure 32- 6. this, as discussed previously, is that the surviving nephrons The diluting mechanism in the kidney is also impaired excrete larger amounts of salt and water. Even the small when the number of nephrons decreases markedly because fluid retention that does occur, along with increased secre- the rapid flushing of fluid through the loops of Henle and tion of renin and Ang II formation that usually occurs in high load of solutes such as urea cause a relatively high ischemic kidney disease, often causes severe hypertension. solute concentration in the tubular fluid of this part of the When kidney function so reduced that dialysis is required nephron. As a consequence, the diluting capacity of the to preserve life, hypertension almost invariably develops. 430 eniru fo ytivarg cificepS esaercnI esaerceD Chapter 32 Diuretics and Kidney Diseases In many of these patients, severe reduction of salt intake or ionized calcium concentration, which, in turn, stimulates removal of extracellular fluid by dialysis can control
