Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Diuretics and Kidney Diseases In many of these patients, severe reduction of salt intake or ionized calcium concentration, which, in turn, stimulates removal of extracellular fluid by dialysis can control the hy- parathyroid hormone secretion. This secondary hyperpar- pertension. Some patients continue to have hypertension, athyroidism then stimulates the release of calcium from even after excess sodium has been removed by dialysis. In bones, causing further bone demineralization. this group, removal of the ischemic kidneys usually corrects Hypertension and Kidney Disease the hypertension (as long as fluid retention is prevented by dialysis) because it removes the source of excessive renin As discussed earlier in this chapter, hypertension can exacer- secretion and subsequent increased Ang II formation. bate injury to the glomeruli and blood vessels of the kidneys Increase in Urea and Other Nonprotein Nitrogens and is a major cause of ESRD. Abnormalities of kidney func- (Azotemia). The nonprotein nitrogens include urea, uric tion can also cause hypertension, as discussed in Chapter 19. acid, creatinine, and a few less important compounds. These Thus, the relationship between hypertension and kidney dis- nonprotein nitrogens, in general, are the end products of pro- ease can, in some cases, propagate a vicious cycle—primary tein metabolism and must be removed from the body to en- kidney damage leads to increased blood pressure, which sure continued normal protein metabolism in the cells. The causes further damage to the kidneys and further increases concentrations of these nonprotein nitrogens, particularly of in blood pressure, until ESRD develops. urea, can rise to as high as 10 times normal during 1 to 2 Not all types of kidney disease cause hypertension be- weeks of total renal failure. With CKD, the concentrations cause damage to certain portions of the kidney causes ure- rise approximately in proportion to the degree of reduction mia without hypertension. Nevertheless, some types of renal of GFR. For this reason, measuring the concentrations of damage are particularly prone to cause hypertension. A clas- these substances, especially of urea and creatinine, provides sification of kidney disease relative to hypertensive or non- an important means for assessing the severity of CKD. hypertensive effects is provided in the following sections. Acidosis in CKD. Each day, the body normally produces Renal Lesions That Reduce the Ability of the Kidneys to about 50 to 80 millimoles more metabolic acid than meta- Excrete Sodium and Water Promote Hypertension. Renal bolic alkali. Therefore, when the
