Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


That Reduce the Ability of the Kidneys to about 50 to 80 millimoles more metabolic acid than meta- Excrete Sodium and Water Promote Hypertension. Renal bolic alkali. Therefore, when the kidneys fail to function, lesions that decrease the ability of the kidneys to excrete acid accumulates in the body fluids. The buffers of the body sodium and water almost invariably cause hypertension. fluids normally can buffer 500 to 1000 millimoles of acid Therefore, lesions that decrease GFR or increase tubular without lethal increases in extracellular fluid H+ concentra- reabsorption usually lead to hypertension of varying de- tion, and the phosphate compounds in the bones can buff- grees. Some specific types of renal abnormalities that can er an additional few thousand millimoles of H+. However, cause hypertension are as follows: when this buffering power is exhausted, the blood pH falls 1. I ncreased renal vascular resistance, which reduces drastically, and the patient will become comatose and die if renal blood flow and GFR. An example is hyperten- the pH falls below about 6.8. sion caused by renal artery stenosis. Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease Caused by De- 2. D ecreased glomerular capillary filtration coefficient, creased Erythropoietin Secretion. Anemia almost always which reduces GFR. An example is chronic glomer- develops in patients with severe CKD. The most important ulonephritis, which causes inflammation and thicken- cause of this anemia is decreased renal secretion of eryth- ing of the glomerular capillary membranes, thereby ropoietin, which stimulates the bone marrow to produce reducing the glomerular capillary filtration coefficient. red blood cells. If the kidneys are seriously damaged, they 3. E xcessive tubular sodium reabsorption. An example are unable to form adequate quantities of erythropoietin, is hypertension caused by excessive aldosterone se- which leads to diminished red blood cell production and cretion, which increases sodium reabsorption main- consequent anemia. ly in the cortical collecting tubules. The availability since 1989 of recombinant erythropoi- Once hypertension has developed, renal excretion of etin, however, has provided a means of treating anemia in sodium and water returns to normal because the high arte- patients with chronic renal failure. rial pressure causes pressure natriuresis and pressure diu- Osteomalacia in Chronic Kidney Disease Caused by De- resis, so intake and output of sodium and water become creased Production of Active Vitamin D and by Phosphate balanced once again. Even when there are large increases Retention by the Kidneys. Prolonged CKD also causes
