Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sodium and water become creased Production of Active Vitamin D and by Phosphate balanced once again. Even when there are large increases Retention by the Kidneys. Prolonged CKD also causes in renal vascular resistance or decreases in the glomerular osteomalacia, a condition in which the bones are partially capillary coefficient, GFR may still return to nearly nor- absorbed and, therefore, become greatly weakened. An im- mal levels after the arterial blood pressure rises. Likewise, portant cause of osteomalacia is that vitamin D must be when tubular reabsorption is increased, as occurs with ex- converted by a two- stage process, first in the liver and then cessive aldosterone secretion, the urinary excretion rate is in the kidneys, into 1,25-d ihydroxycholecalciferol before it initially reduced but then returns to normal as arterial pres- is able to promote calcium absorption from the intestine. sure rises. Thus, after hypertension develops, there may be Therefore, serious damage to the kidney greatly reduces the no obvious sign of impaired excretion of sodium and water blood concentration of active vitamin D, which in turn de- other than the hypertension. As explained in Chapter 19, creases intestinal absorption of calcium and availability of normal excretion of sodium and water at an elevated arte- calcium to the bones. rial pressure means that pressure natriuresis and pressure Another important cause of demineralization of the diuresis have been reset to a higher arterial pressure. Hypertension Caused by Patchy Renal Damage and skeleton in CKD is the rise in serum phosphate concen- tration that occurs as a result of decreased GFR. This rise Increased Renal Secretion of Renin. If one part of the kid- in serum phosphate level increases binding of phosphate ney is ischemic, and the remainder is not ischemic, such as with calcium in the plasma, thus decreasing plasma serum when one renal artery is severely constricted, the ischemic 431 UNIT V UNIT V The Body Fluids and Kidneys renal tissue secretes large quantities of renin. This secretion protein is formed in response to a respective gene in the leads to increased formation of Ang II, which can cause hy- nucleus. If any required gene happens to be absent or ab- pertension. The most likely sequence of events in causing normal, the tubules may be deficient in one of the appropri- this hypertension, as discussed in Chapter 19, is as follows: ate carrier proteins or one of the enzymes needed
