Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


normal, the tubules may be deficient in one of the appropri- this hypertension, as discussed in Chapter 19, is as follows: ate carrier proteins or one of the enzymes needed for solute (1) the ischemic kidney tissue excretes less than normal transport by the renal tubular epithelial cells. In other cas- amounts of water and salt; (2) the renin secreted by the is- es, too much of the enzyme or carrier protein is produced. chemic kidney, as well as the subsequent increased Ang II Thus, many hereditary tubular disorders occur because of formation, affects the nonischemic kidney tissue, causing it abnormal transport of individual substances or groups of also to retain salt and water; and (3) excess salt and water substances through the tubular membrane. In addition, cause hypertension in the usual manner. damage to the tubular epithelial membrane by toxins or is- A similar type of hypertension can result when patchy chemia can cause important renal tubular disorders. areas of one or both kidneys become ischemic as a result of Renal Glycosuria—Failure of the Kidneys to Reabsorb arteriosclerosis or vascular injury in specific portions of the Glucose. In renal glycosuria, the blood glucose concentra- kidneys. When this occurs, the ischemic nephrons excrete tion may be normal, but the transport mechanism for tu- less salt and water but secrete greater amounts of renin, bular reabsorption of glucose is greatly limited or absent. which causes increased Ang II formation. The high levels of Consequently, despite a normal blood glucose level, large Ang II then impair the ability of the surrounding, otherwise amounts of glucose pass into the urine each day. Because normal nephrons to excrete sodium and water. As a result, diabetes mellitus is also associated with the presence of hypertension develops, which restores the overall excretion glucose in the urine, renal glycosuria, which is a relatively of sodium and water by the kidney, so balance between in- benign condition, must be ruled out before making the di- take and output of salt and water is maintained, but at the agnosis of diabetes mellitus. expense of high blood pressure. Aminoaciduria—Failure of the Kidneys to Reabsorb Kidney Diseases That Cause Loss of Entire Nephrons Amino Acids. Some amino acids share mutual transport sys- Lead to Chronic Kidney Disease but May Not Cause tems for reabsorption, whereas other amino acids have their Hypertension own distinct transport systems. Rarely, a condition called generalized aminoaciduria
