Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sys- Lead to Chronic Kidney Disease but May Not Cause tems for reabsorption, whereas other amino acids have their Hypertension own distinct transport systems. Rarely, a condition called generalized aminoaciduria results from deficient reabsorp- Loss of large numbers of whole nephrons, such as occurs tion of all amino acids. More frequently, deficiencies of spe- with the loss of one kidney and part of another kidney, al- cific carrier systems may result in the following: (1) essential most always leads to CKD if the loss of kidney tissue is great cystinuria, in which large amounts of cystine fail to be reab- enough. If the remaining nephrons are normal, and salt in- sorbed and often crystallize in the urine to form renal stones; take is not excessive, this condition might not cause clini- (2) simple glycinuria, in which glycine fails to be reabsorbed; cally significant hypertension. This is because even a slight or (3) beta- aminoisobutyricaciduria, which occurs in about rise in blood pressure will raise GFR and decrease tubular 5% of the population but apparently has no major clinical sig- sodium reabsorption in the surviving nephrons sufficiently nificance. to promote enough water and salt excretion in the urine, Renal Hypophosphatemia—Failure of the Kidneys to even with the few nephrons that remain intact. However, a Reabsorb Phosphate. In renal hypophosphatemia, the renal patient with this type of abnormality may become severely tubules fail to reabsorb large enough phosphate ions when hypertensive if additional stresses are imposed, such as eat- the phosphate concentration of the body fluids falls very ing a large amount of salt. In this case, the kidneys simply low. This condition usually does not cause serious immedi- cannot clear adequate quantities of salt at a normal blood ate abnormalities because the phosphate concentration of pressure with the small number of functioning nephrons the extracellular fluid can vary widely without causing ma- that remain. Increased blood pressure restores excretion jor cellular dysfunction. Over a long period, however, a low of salt and water to match intake of salt and water under phosphate level causes diminished calcification of the bones, steady- state conditions. causing rickets to develop. This type of rickets is refractory Effective treatment of hypertension requires enhancing to vitamin D therapy, in contrast to the rapid response of the the kidneys’ capability to excrete salt and water by increas- usual type of rickets, as discussed in Chapter 80. ing GFR
