Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


therapy, in contrast to the rapid response of the the kidneys’ capability to excrete salt and water by increas- usual type of rickets, as discussed in Chapter 80. ing GFR or by decreasing tubular reabsorption, so that bal- Renal Tubular Acidosis—Reduced Tubular Secretion of ance between intake and renal excretion of salt and water Hydrogen Ions. In renal tubular acidosis, the renal tubules excretion can be maintained at a lower blood pressure. are unable to secrete adequate amounts of hydrogen ions. As This effect can be achieved by drugs that block the effects a result, large amounts of sodium bicarbonate are continually of nervous and hormonal signals that cause the kidneys lost in the urine. This loss causes a continued state of meta- to retain salt and water (e.g., with β- adrenergic blockers, bolic acidosis, as discussed in Chapter 31. This type of renal Ang II receptor antagonists, or ACE inhibitors), with drugs abnormality can be caused by hereditary disorders or can oc- that vasodilate the kidneys and increase GFR (e.g., calcium cur as a result of widespread injury to the renal tubules. channel blockers), or with diuretic drugs that directly in- Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus—Failure of the Kid- hibit renal tubular reabsorption of salt and water. neys to Respond to Antidiuretic Hormone. Occasionally, Specific Tubular Disorders the renal tubules do not respond to antidiuretic hormone, causing large quantities of dilute urine to be excreted. As In Chapter 28, we discussed several mechanisms responsi- long as the person is supplied with plenty of water, this ble for transporting different individual substances across condition seldom causes severe difficulty. However, when the tubular epithelial membranes. In Chapter 3, we also adequate quantities of water are not available, the person pointed out that each cellular enzyme and each carrier rapidly becomes dehydrated. 432 Chapter 32 Diuretics and Kidney Diseases Fanconi Syndrome—Generalized Reabsorptive Defect which, in turn, decrease adrenal secretion of aldosterone. of the Renal Tubules. Fanconi syndrome is usually associ- Fortunately, Liddle syndrome can be treated with the diu- ated with increased urinary excretion of virtually all amino retic amiloride, which blocks the excessive ENaC activity. acids, glucose, and phosphate. In severe cases, other mani- Treatment of Renal Failure by Transplantation or festations are also observed, such as (1) failure to reabsorb Dialysis With an Artificial Kidney sodium bicarbonate, which results in metabolic acidosis; (2) increased excretion of potassium and sometimes cal- Severe loss
