Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


also observed, such as (1) failure to reabsorb Dialysis With an Artificial Kidney sodium bicarbonate, which results in metabolic acidosis; (2) increased excretion of potassium and sometimes cal- Severe loss of kidney function, acutely or chronically, is cium; and (3) nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. life- threatening and requires removal of toxic waste prod- There are multiple causes of Fanconi syndrome, which re- ucts and restoration of body fluid volume and composi- sults from a generalized inability of the renal tubular cells to tion toward normal. This can be accomplished by kidney transport various substances. Some of these include the follow- transplantation or by dialysis with an artificial kidney. Over ing: (1) hereditary defects in cell transport mechanisms; (2) tox- 700,000 patients in the United States are currently receiv- ins or drugs that injure the renal tubular epithelial cells; and (3) ing some form of ESRD therapy. injury to the renal tubular cells as a result of ischemia. The prox- Successful transplantation of a single donor kidney to imal tubular cells are especially affected in Fanconi syndrome a patient with ESRD can restore kidney function to a level caused by tubular injury because these cells reabsorb and se- sufficient to maintain essentially normal homeostasis of crete many of the drugs and toxins that can cause damage. body fluids and electrolytes. Approximately 19,000 kidney Bartter Syndrome—Decreased Sodium, Chloride, and transplantations are performed each year in the United Potassium Reabsorption in the Loops of Henle. Bartter States, but over 100,000 patients await kidney transplan- syndrome is a rare group of kidney disorders caused by mu- tation. Patients who receive kidney transplants typically tations that impair function of the 1- sodium, 2-c hloride, live longer and have fewer health problems than those who 1- potassium co- transporter or by defects in potassium are maintained with dialysis. Maintenance of immunosup- channels in the luminal membrane or chloride channels in pressive therapy is required for almost all patients to help the basolateral membrane of the thick ascending loop of prevent acute rejection and loss of the transplanted kidney. Henle. At least five mutations, usually inherited in an auto- The side effects of drugs that suppress the immune system somal recessive manner, have been found to cause Bartter include increased risk for infections and some cancers, syndrome. These disorders result in increased excretion of although the amount of immunosuppressive therapy can water, sodium, chloride, potassium, and calcium by
