Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


include increased risk for infections and some cancers, syndrome. These disorders result in increased excretion of although the amount of immunosuppressive therapy can water, sodium, chloride, potassium, and calcium by the kid- usually be reduced over time to reduce these risks greatly. neys. The salt and water loss leads to mild volume depletion, Over 475,000 people in the United States who have ir- resulting in activation of the renin-a ngiotensin-a ldosterone reversible renal failure or total kidney removal are being system (RAAS). The increased aldosterone and high distal maintained chronically by dialysis with artificial kidneys. tubular flow, due to impaired loop of Henle reabsorption, Dialysis is also used in certain types of AKI to tide the stimulate potassium and hydrogen secretion in the collect- patient over until the kidneys resume their function. If ing tubules, leading to hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis. the loss of kidney function is irreversible, it is necessary Gitelman Syndrome—Decreased Sodium Chloride Re- to perform dialysis chronically to maintain life. Because absorption in the Distal Tubules. Gitelman syndrome is an dialysis cannot maintain completely normal body fluid autosomal-r ecessive disorder of the thiazide- sensitive sodium- composition and cannot replace all the multiple functions chloride co- transporter in the distal tubules. Patients with performed by the kidneys, the health of patients main- Gitelman syndrome have some of the same characteristics as tained with the use of artificial kidneys usually remains patients with Bartter syndrome—salt and water loss, mild wa- significantly impaired. ter volume depletion, and activation of the renin-a ngiotensin- Basic Principles of Dialysis aldosterone system—although these abnormalities are usually less severe in persons with Gitelman syndrome. The basic principle of the artificial kidney is to pass blood Because the tubular defects in Bartter or Gitelman syn- through minute blood channels bounded by a thin membrane. drome cannot currently be corrected, treatment is usually On the other side of the membrane is a dialyzing fluid into focused on replacing the losses of sodium chloride and which unwanted substances in the blood pass by diffusion. potassium. Some studies have suggested that blockade of Figure 32- 8 shows the components of one type of arti- prostaglandin synthesis with nonsteroidal antiinflamma- ficial kidney in which blood flows continually between two tory drugs (NSAIDs) and administration of aldosterone thin membranes of cellophane; outside the membrane is a antagonists, such as spironolactone, may be useful in cor- dialyzing fluid. The cellophane is porous
