Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


dissipated. In a flowing system, as is the case with hemodialysis, in which blood and dialysate fluid flow Fresh dialyzing Constant Used dialyzing through the artificial kidney, the dissipation of the concen- solution temperature solution tration gradient can be reduced, and diffusion of solute bath across the membrane can be optimized, by increasing the Figure 32- 8. Principles of dialysis with an artificial kidney. flow rate of the blood, dialyzing fluid, or both. In normal operation of the artificial kidney, blood flows The effectiveness of the artificial kidney can be ex- continually or intermittently back into the vein. The total pressed in terms of the amount of plasma that is cleared amount of blood in the artificial kidney at any one time is of different substances each minute, which, as discussed in usually less than 500 milliliters, the rate of flow may be sev- Chapter 28, is the primary means for expressing the func- eral hundred milliliters per minute, and the total diffusion tional effectiveness of the kidneys themselves to rid the surface area is between 0.6 and 2.5 m2. To prevent coagula- body of unwanted substances. Most artificial kidneys can tion of the blood in the artificial kidney, a small amount of clear urea from the plasma at a rate of 100 to 225 ml/min, heparin is infused into the blood as it enters the artificial which shows that at least for the excretion of urea, the arti- kidney. In addition to the diffusion of solutes, mass trans- ficial kidney can function about twice as rapidly as two nor- fer of solutes and water can be produced by applying a hy- mal kidneys together, whose urea clearance is only 70 ml/ drostatic pressure to force the fluid and solutes across the min. Yet, the artificial kidney is used only for 4 to 6 hours/ membranes of the dialyzer; this type of filtration is called day, three times a week. Therefore, the overall plasma clear- bulk flow or hemofiltration. ance is still considerably limited when the artificial kidney Dialyzing Fluid replaces the normal kidneys. Also, it is important to keep in mind that the artificial kidney cannot replace some of the Table 32- 7 compares the constituents in a typical dialyz- other functions of the kidneys, such as secretion of eryth- ing fluid with those in normal plasma and uremic plasma. ropoietin, which is necessary for red blood cell production.
