Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


limeter is 5,200,000 (±300,000); in healthy women, it is A major function of RBCs, also known as erythrocytes, is 4,700,000 (±300,000). Persons living at high altitudes have to transport hemoglobin, which, in turn, carries oxygen greater numbers of RBCs, as discussed later. from the lungs to the tissues. In some animals, including many invertebrates, hemoglobin circulates as free pro- Quantity of Hemoglobin in the Cells. RBCs can con- tein in the circulatory fluids and is not enclosed in RBCs. centrate hemoglobin in the cell fluid up to about 34 When it is free in human plasma, about 3% of it leaks g/100 ml of cells. The concentration does not rise above through the capillary membrane into the tissue spaces or this value because this is the metabolic limit of the cell’s through the glomerular membrane of the kidney into the hemoglobin- forming mechanism. Furthermore, in nor- glomerular filtrate each time the blood passes through mal people, the percentage of hemoglobin is almost al- the capillaries. Therefore, hemoglobin must remain inside ways near the maximum in each cell. However, when RBCs to perform its functions in humans effectively. hemoglobin formation is deficient, the percentage of The RBCs have other functions besides transport of hemoglobin in the cells may fall considerably below this hemoglobin. For example, they contain a large quantity of value, and the volume of the RBC may also decrease be- carbonic anhydrase, an enzyme that catalyzes the revers- cause of diminished hemoglobin to fill the cell. ible reaction between carbon dioxide (CO ) and water to When the hematocrit (the percentage of blood that is 2 form carbonic acid (H CO ), increasing the rate of this comprised of cells—normally, 40% to 45%) and the quan- 2 3 reaction several thousandfold. The rapidity of this reaction tity of hemoglobin in each respective cell are normal, the makes it possible for the water of the blood to transport whole blood of men contains an average of 15 g hemo- enormous quantities of CO in the form of bicarbonate globin/100 ml; for women, it contains an average of 14 g 2 ion (HCO −) from the tissues to the lungs, where it is hemoglobin/100 ml. 3 reconverted to CO and expelled into the atmosphere as As discussed in connection with blood transport of 2 a body waste product. The hemoglobin in the cells is an oxygen in Chapter 41, each gram
