Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


into the atmosphere as As discussed in connection with blood transport of 2 a body waste product. The hemoglobin in the cells is an oxygen in Chapter 41, each gram of hemoglobin can com- excellent acid- base buffer (as is true of most proteins), so bine with 1.34 ml of oxygen if the hemoglobin is 100% the RBCs are responsible for most of the acid-b ase buffer- saturated. Therefore, in the average man, a maximum of ing power of whole blood. about 20 milliliters of oxygen can be carried in combina- tion with hemoglobin in each 100 milliliters of blood, and Shape and Size of Red Blood Cells. Normal RBCs, in woman 19 milliliters of oxygen can be carried. shown in Figure 33- 3, are biconcave discs having a mean diameter of about 7.8 micrometers and a thickness of 2.5 PRODUCTION OF RED BLOOD CELLS micrometers at the thickest point and 1 micrometer or less in the center. The average volume of the RBC is 90 to Areas of the Body That Produce Red Blood Cells. In 95 cubic micrometers. the early weeks of embryonic life, primitive nucleated The shapes of RBCs can change remarkably as the cells RBCs are produced in the yolk sac. During the middle tri- squeeze through capillaries. Actually, the RBC resem- mester of gestation, the liver is the main organ for RBC bles a bag that can be deformed into almost any shape. production but reasonable numbers are also produced in 439 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Genesis of Blood Cells the spleen and lymph nodes. Then, during the last month or so of gestation and after birth, RBCs are produced ex- Multipotential Hematopoietic Stem Cells, Growth In- clusively in the bone marrow. ducers, and Differentiation Inducers. The blood cells As illustrated in Figure 33- 1, the marrow of essentially begin their lives in the bone marrow from a single type of all bones produces RBCs until a person is about 5 years cell called the multipotential hematopoietic stem cell, from old. The marrow of the long bones, except for the proxi- which all the cells of the circulating blood are eventually mal portions of the humeri and tibiae, becomes fatty and derived. Figure 33- 2 shows the successive divisions of the produces no more RBCs after about the age of 20 years. multipotential cells to form the different circulating
