Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fatty and derived. Figure 33- 2 shows the successive divisions of the produces no more RBCs after about the age of 20 years. multipotential cells to form the different circulating blood Beyond this age, most RBCs continue to be produced in cells. As these cells reproduce, a small portion of them the marrow of the membranous bones, such as the ver- remains exactly like the original multipotential cells and tebrae, sternum, ribs, and ilia. Even in these bones, the is retained in the bone marrow to maintain their supply, marrow becomes less productive as age increases. although their numbers diminish with age. Most of the re- produced cells, however, differentiate to form the other cell types, shown at the right in Figure 33- 2. The intermediate- stage cells are very much like the multipotential stem cells, 100 even though they have already become committed to a par- 75 ticular line of cells; these are called committed stem cells. Vertebra The different committed stem cells, when grown in cul- 50 T ib F Sternum ture, will produce colonies of specific types of blood cells. 2 05 ia (s h aft) e m ur (shaft) Rib A a C F cc Uoo lm -o E nm y is-i t f uote srd em d s i t n te ogm du ec n se i il gtl – nth e ara ty et t p th hr ro io sd c tyu ytc pee , e s a o e n fr d sy t t eh t mhro e c c eay lbt le .b Ls r e ii ks v ec ia wa tl i il o se end , 0 5 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 70 colony-f orming units that form granulocytes and mono- Age (years) cytes have the designation CFU-G M, and so forth. Figure 33- 1. Relative rates of red blood cell production in the bone Growth and reproduction of the different stem cells marrow of different bones at different ages. are controlled by multiple proteins called growth inducers. Erythrocytes CFU-B CFU-E (Colony-forming (Colony-forming unit–blast) unit–erythrocytes) Granulocytes (Neutrophils) (Eosinophils) (Basophils) Monocytes MHSC CFU-S CFU-GM (Multipotent (Colony-forming (Colony-forming unit– hematopoietic unit–spleen) granulocytes, monocytes) Macrocytes stem cell) Megakaryocytes CFU-M Platelets (Colony-forming unit– megakaryocytes) T lymphocytes Figure 33- 2. Formation of the mul- MHSC LSC B lymphocytes tiple different blood cells from the (Lymphoid stem cell) original
