Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cell) Megakaryocytes CFU-M Platelets (Colony-forming unit– megakaryocytes) T lymphocytes Figure 33- 2. Formation of the mul- MHSC LSC B lymphocytes tiple different blood cells from the (Lymphoid stem cell) original multipotent hematopoietic stem cell in the bone marrow. 440 )tnecrep( ytiralulleC Chapter 33 Red Blood Cells, Anemia, and Polycythemia Genesis of RBCs Proerythroblast Basophil erythroblast Microcytic, hypochromic anemia Sickle cell anemia Polychromatophil erythroblast Orthochromatic erythroblast Reticulocyte Erythrocytes Megaloblastic anemia Erythroblastosis fetalis Figure 33- 3. Genesis of normal red blood cells (RBCs) and characteristics of RBCs in different types of anemias. At least four major growth inducers have been described, The first- generation cells are called basophil erythroblasts each having different characteristics. One of these, because they stain with basic dyes. Hemoglobin first interleukin- 3, promotes growth and reproduction of appears in polychromatophil erythroblasts. In the suc- virtually all the different types of committed stem cells, ceeding generations, as shown in Figure 33- 3, the cells whereas the others induce growth of only specific types become filled with hemoglobin to a concentration of of cells. about 34%, the nucleus condenses to a small size, and its The growth inducers promote growth but not differen- final remnant is absorbed or extruded from the cell. At the tiation of the cells, which is the function of another set of same time, the endoplasmic reticulum is also reabsorbed. proteins called differentiation inducers. Each of these dif- The cell at this stage is called a reticulocyte because it still ferentiation inducers causes one type of committed stem contains a small amount of basophilic material, consisting cell to differentiate one or more steps toward a final of remnants of the Golgi apparatus, mitochondria, and a adult blood cell. few other cytoplasmic organelles. During this reticulocyte Formation of the growth inducers and differentiation stage, the cells pass from the bone marrow into the blood inducers is controlled by factors outside the bone marrow. capillaries by diapedesis (squeezing through the pores of For example, in the case of RBCs, exposure of the blood the capillary membrane). to a low oxygen level for a long time causes growth induc- The remaining basophilic material in the reticulocyte tion, differentiation, and production of greatly increased normally disappears within 1 to 2 days, and the cell is numbers of RBCs, as discussed later in this chapter. In the then a mature erythrocyte. Because of the short life of the case of some
