Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


days, and the cell is numbers of RBCs, as discussed later in this chapter. In the then a mature erythrocyte. Because of the short life of the case of some of the white blood cells, infectious diseases reticulocytes, their concentration among all the RBCs is cause growth, differentiation, and eventual formation of normally slightly less than 1%. specific types of white blood cells that are needed to com- Erythropoietin Regulates Red Blood Cell bat each infection. Production Stages of Differentiation of Red Blood The total mass of RBCs in the circulatory system is reg- Cells ulated within narrow limits, and thus (1) an adequate The first cell that can be identified as belonging to the RBC number of RBCs are always available to provide suffi- series is the proerythroblast, shown at the starting point in cient transport of oxygen from the lungs to the tissues, Figure 33- 3. Under appropriate stimulation, large num- yet (2) the cells do not become so numerous that they bers of these cells are formed from the CFU- E stem cells. impede blood flow. This control mechanism is dia- Once the proerythroblast has been formed, it divides grammed in Figure 33-4 and is described in the follow- multiple times, eventually forming many mature RBCs. ing sections. 441 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Hematopoietic stem cells in erythropoietin production and the erythropoietin, in Kidney turn, enhances RBC production until the hypoxia is re- lieved. Proerythroblasts Erythropoietin Erythropoietin Is Formed Mainly in the Kidneys. Nor- Red blood cells mally, about 90% of all erythropoietin is formed in the kid- Decreases neys, and the remainder is formed mainly in the liver. It is not known exactly where in the kidneys the erythropoietin is Tissue oxygenation formed. Some studies have suggested that erythropoietin is secreted mainly by fibroblast-l ike interstitial cells surround- ing the tubules in the cortex and outer medulla, where much Decreases of the kidney’s oxygen consumption occurs. It is likely that other cells, including the renal epithelial cells, also secrete Factors that decrease erythropoietin in response to hypoxia. oxygenation Renal tissue hypoxia leads to increased tissue lev- 1. Low blood volume els of hypoxia- inducible factor- 1 (HIF- 1), which serves 2. Anemia 3. Low hemoglobin as a transcription factor for a large number of hypoxia- 4. Poor blood flow inducible genes, including the erythropoietin gene. HIF- 1 5. Pulmonary disease
