Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2. Anemia 3. Low hemoglobin as a transcription factor for a large number of hypoxia- 4. Poor blood flow inducible genes, including the erythropoietin gene. HIF- 1 5. Pulmonary disease binds to a hypoxia response element in the erythropoietin Figure 33- 4. Function of the erythropoietin mechanism to increase gene, inducing transcription of messenger RNA and, ulti- production of red blood cells when tissue oxygenation decreases. mately, increased erythropoietin synthesis. At times, hypoxia in other parts of the body, but not in Tissue Oxygenation—Essential Regulator of Red the kidneys, stimulates kidney erythropoietin secretion, Blood Cell Production. Conditions that decrease the which suggests that there might be some nonrenal sensor quantity of oxygen transported to the tissues ordinarily that sends an additional signal to the kidneys to produce increase the rate of RBC production. Thus, when a per- this hormone. In particular, norepinephrine and epineph- son becomes extremely anemic as a result of hemorrhage rine and several of the prostaglandins stimulate erythro- or any other condition, the bone marrow begins to pro- poietin production. duce large quantities of RBCs. Also, destruction of major When both kidneys are removed from a person, or portions of the bone marrow, especially by x-r ay therapy, when the kidneys are destroyed by renal disease, the per- causes hyperplasia of the remaining bone marrow in an son invariably becomes very anemic. This is because the attempt to supply the body’s need for RBCs. 10% of the normal erythropoietin formed in other tissues At very high altitudes, where the quantity of oxy- (mainly in the liver) is sufficient to cause only one third to gen in the air is greatly decreased, insufficient oxygen is half the RBC formation needed by the body. transported to the tissues, and RBC production is greatly increased. In this case, it is not the concentration of Erythropoietin Stimulates Production of Proeryth- RBCs in the blood that controls RBC production but the roblasts From Hematopoietic Stem Cells. When an amount of oxygen transported to the tissues in relation to animal or person is placed in an atmosphere of low oxy- tissue demand for oxygen. gen, erythropoietin begins to be formed within minutes Various diseases of the circulation that decrease tissue to hours, and it reaches maximum production within blood flow, particularly those that cause failure of oxygen 24 hours. Yet, almost no new RBCs appear in the cir- absorption by the blood as
