Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


it reaches maximum production within blood flow, particularly those that cause failure of oxygen 24 hours. Yet, almost no new RBCs appear in the cir- absorption by the blood as it passes through the lungs, culating blood until about 5 days later. From this, as can also increase the rate of RBC production. This result well as from other studies, it has been determined that is especially apparent in prolonged cardiac failure and in the important effect of erythropoietin is to stimulate many lung diseases because the tissue hypoxia resulting production of proerythroblasts from hematopoietic from these conditions increases RBC production, with a stem cells in the bone marrow. In addition, once the resultant increase in hematocrit and, usually, total blood proerythroblasts are formed, the erythropoietin causes volume. these cells to pass more rapidly through the different erythroblastic stages than they normally do, further Hypoxia Increases Formation of Erythropoietin Which speeding up the production of new RBCs. The rapid Stimulates Red Blood Cell Production. The principal production of cells continues as long as the person re- stimulus for RBC production in a low oxygen state is a mains in a low oxygen state or until enough RBCs have circulating hormone called erythropoietin, a glycoprotein been produced to carry adequate amounts of oxygen with a molecular weight of about 34,000. In the absence to the tissues despite the low level of oxygen; at this of erythropoietin, hypoxia has little or no effect to stimu- time, the rate of erythropoietin production decreases to late RBC production. However, when the erythropoietin a level that will maintain the required number of RBCs system is functional, hypoxia causes a marked increase but not an excess. 442 Chapter 33 Red Blood Cells, Anemia, and Polycythemia In the absence of erythropoietin, few RBCs are formed Lack of intrinsic factor, therefore, decreases availabil- by the bone marrow. At the other extreme, when large ity of vitamin B because of faulty absorption of the 12 quantities of erythropoietin are formed, and if plenty of vitamin. iron and other required nutrients are available, the rate Once vitamin B has been absorbed from the gastro- 12 of RBC production can rise to perhaps 10 or more times intestinal tract, it is first stored in large quantities in the normal. Therefore, the erythropoietin mechanism for liver and then released slowly as needed by the bone mar- controlling RBC production is a powerful
