Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


first stored in large quantities in the normal. Therefore, the erythropoietin mechanism for liver and then released slowly as needed by the bone mar- controlling RBC production is a powerful one. row. The minimum amount of vitamin B required each 12 day to maintain normal RBC maturation is only 1 to 3 Maturation of Red Blood Cells Requires micrograms, and the normal storage in the liver and other Vitamin B (Cyanocobalamin) and Folic 12 body tissues is about 1000 times this amount. Therefore, 3 Acid to 4 years of defective vitamin B absorption are usually 12 Because of the continuing need to replenish RBCs, the required to cause maturation failure anemia. erythropoietic cells of the bone marrow are among the Maturation Failure Anemia Caused by Folic Acid most rapidly growing and reproducing cells in the entire (Pteroylglutamic Acid) Deficiency. Folic acid is a normal body. Therefore, as would be expected, their maturation constituent of green vegetables, some fruits, and meats and rate of production are affected greatly by a person’s (especially liver). However, it is easily destroyed during nutritional status. cooking. Also, people with gastrointestinal absorption Especially important for final maturation of the RBCs abnormalities, such as the frequently occurring small in- are two vitamins, vitamin B and folic acid. Both these 12 testinal disease called sprue, often have serious difficulty vitamins are essential for synthesis of DNA because each, absorbing both folic acid and vitamin B . Therefore, in in a different way, is required for formation of thymi- 12 many cases of maturation failure, the cause is deficiency dine triphosphate, one of the essential building blocks of of intestinal absorption of folic acid and vitamin B . DNA. Therefore, lack of vitamin B or folic acid causes 12 12 abnormal and diminished DNA and, consequently, fail- HEMOGLOBIN FORMATION ure of nuclear maturation and cell division. Furthermore, the erythroblastic cells of the bone marrow, in addition The synthesis of hemoglobin begins in polychromatophil to failing to proliferate rapidly, produce mainly larger erythroblasts and continues even into the reticulocyte than normal RBCs called macrocytes, which have a flimsy stage of the RBCs. Therefore, when reticulocytes leave membrane and are often irregular, large, and oval instead the bone marrow and pass into the blood stream, they of the usual biconcave disc. These poorly formed cells, continue to form minute quantities of hemoglobin for after entering the circulating blood, are capable of
