Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


into the blood stream, they of the usual biconcave disc. These poorly formed cells, continue to form minute quantities of hemoglobin for after entering the circulating blood, are capable of car- another day or so until they become mature erythrocytes. rying oxygen normally, but their fragility causes them Figure 33- 5 shows the basic chemical steps in the to have a short life, half to one- third normal. Therefore, formation of hemoglobin. First, succinyl-C oA, which deficiency of vitamin B or folic acid causes maturation is formed in the Krebs metabolic cycle (as explained in 12 failure in the process of erythropoiesis. Chapter 68), binds with glycine to form a pyrrole mole- cule. In turn, four pyrroles combine to form protoporphy- Maturation Failure Anemia Caused by Poor Absorp- rin IX, which then combines with iron to form the heme tion of Vitamin B From the Gastrointestinal Tract— molecule. Finally, each heme molecule combines with 12 Pernicious Anemia. A common cause of RBC matu- a long polypeptide chain, a globin synthesized by ribo- ration failure is failure to absorb vitamin B from the somes, forming a subunit of hemoglobin called a hemo- 12 gastrointestinal tract. This situation often occurs in the globin chain (Figure 33- 6). Each chain has a molecular disease pernicious anemia, in which the basic abnormality weight of about 16,000; four of these chains, in turn, bind is an atrophic gastric mucosa that fails to produce normal together loosely to form the whole hemoglobin molecule. gastric secretions. The parietal cells of the gastric glands There are several slight variations in the different sub- secrete a glycoprotein called intrinsic factor, which com- unit hemoglobin chains, depending on the amino acid bines with vitamin B in food and makes the B available 12 12 for absorption by the gut in the following way: A P 1. Intrinsic factor binds tightly with the vitamin B . 12 In this bound state, vitamin B is protected from C C 12 digestion by the gastrointestinal secretions. 2. Still in the bound state, intrinsic factor binds to spe- I. 2 succinyl-CoA + 2 glycine HC CH cific receptor sites on the brush border membranes N of the mucosal cells in the ileum. II. 4 pyrrole protoporphyrin IX H 3. Vitamin B is then transported into the blood dur- III. protoporphyrin IX + Fe++ heme (pyrrole) 12 ing the next few hours by the process
