Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pyrrole protoporphyrin IX H 3. Vitamin B is then transported into the blood dur- III. protoporphyrin IX + Fe++ heme (pyrrole) 12 ing the next few hours by the process of pinocytosis, IV. heme + polypeptide hemoglobin chain (α or β) carrying intrinsic factor and the vitamin together V. 2 α chains + 2 β chains hemoglobin A through the membrane. Figure 33- 5. Formation of hemoglobin. 443 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation CH 2 Bilirubin (excreted) Tissues H CH C CH Ferritin Hemosiderin 3 H 3C A O B CH CH 2 Macrophages Free Heme 2 Degrading hemoglobin Enzymes N (–)N iron Free iron HC Fe CH N(–) N Hemoglobin Transferrin–Fe H C D C CH Red Cells Plasma 3 3 C CH H CH Blood loss: 0.7 mg Fe Fe++ absorbed Fe excreted: 0.6 mg 2 2 daily in menses (small intestine) daily CH CH Figure 33- 7. Iron transport and metabolism. 2 2 COOH COOH and then to release this oxygen readily in the peripheral Polypeptide tissue capillaries, where the gaseous tension of oxygen is (hemoglobin chain α or β) much lower than in the lungs. Figure 33- 6. Basic structure of the heme moiety, showing one of the Oxygen does not combine with the two positive bonds four heme chains that along with globin polypeptide, bind together of the iron in the hemoglobin molecule. Instead, it binds to form the hemoglobin molecule. loosely with one of the so- called coordination bonds of the iron atom. This bond is extremely loose, so the com- composition of the polypeptide portion. The different bination is easily reversible. Furthermore, the oxygen types of chains are designated as alpha (α) chains, beta (β) does not become ionic oxygen but is carried as molecular chains, (γ) gamma chains, and (δ) delta chains. The most oxygen (composed of two oxygen atoms) to the tissues, common form of hemoglobin in adults, hemoglobin A, is where, because of the loose, readily reversible combina- a combination of two alpha chains and two beta chains. tion, it is released into the tissue fluids still in the form of Hemoglobin A has a molecular weight of 64,458. molecular oxygen rather than ionic oxygen. Because each hemoglobin chain has a heme prosthetic IRON METABOLISM group containing an atom of iron, and because there are four hemoglobin chains in each hemoglobin molecule, Because iron is
