Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Because each hemoglobin chain has a heme prosthetic IRON METABOLISM group containing an atom of iron, and because there are four hemoglobin chains in each hemoglobin molecule, Because iron is important for the formation not only one finds four iron atoms in each hemoglobin molecule. of hemoglobin but also of other essential elements in Each of these can bind loosely with one molecule of oxy- the body (e.g., myoglobin, cytochromes, cytochrome gen, making a total of four molecules of oxygen (or eight oxidase, peroxidase, and catalase), it is important to oxygen atoms) that can be transported by each hemoglo- understand the means whereby iron is used in the bin molecule. body. The total quantity of iron in the body averages 4 The types of hemoglobin chains in the hemoglobin to 5 grams, about 65% of which is in the form of hemo- molecule determine the binding affinity of the hemoglo- globin. About 4% is in the form of myoglobin, 1% is in bin for oxygen. Abnormalities of the chains can alter the the form of the various heme compounds that promote physical characteristics of the hemoglobin molecule as intracellular oxidation, 0.1% is combined with the pro- well. For example, in sickle cell anemia, the amino acid tein transferrin in the blood plasma, and 15% to 30% is valine is substituted for glutamic acid at one point in each stored for later use, mainly in the reticuloendothelial of the two beta chains. When this type of hemoglobin is system and liver parenchymal cells, principally in the exposed to low oxygen, it forms elongated crystals inside form of ferritin. the RBCs that are sometimes 15 micrometers in length. These crystals make it almost impossible for the cells to Transport and Storage of Iron. Transport, storage, and pass through many small capillaries, and the spiked ends metabolism of iron in the body are diagrammed in Figure of the crystals are likely to rupture the cell membranes, 33- 7 and can be explained as follows. When iron is ab- leading to sickle cell anemia. sorbed from the small intestine, it immediately combines in the blood plasma with a beta globulin, apotransferrin, Hemoglobin Combines Reversibly With Oxygen. The to form transferrin, which is then transported in the plas- most important feature of the hemoglobin molecule is ma. The iron is loosely bound in the transferrin and, con- its ability to combine loosely and reversibly with
