Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the plas- most important feature of the hemoglobin molecule is ma. The iron is loosely bound in the transferrin and, con- its ability to combine loosely and reversibly with oxygen. sequently, can be released to any tissue cell at any point in This ability is discussed in detail in Chapter 41 in rela- the body. Excess iron in the blood is deposited especially tion to respiration because the primary function of hemo- in the liver hepatocytes and less in the reticuloendothelial globin in the body is to combine with oxygen in the lungs cells of the bone marrow. 444 Chapter 33 Red Blood Cells, Anemia, and Polycythemia In the cell cytoplasm, iron combines mainly with a Iron absorption from the intestines is extremely slow, protein, apoferritin, to form ferritin. Apoferritin has a at a maximum rate of only a few milligrams per day. This molecular weight of about 460,000, and varying quanti- slow rate of absorption means that even when tremen- ties of iron can combine in clusters of iron radicals with dous quantities of iron are present in the food, only small this large molecule; therefore, ferritin may contain only a proportions can be absorbed. small or a large amount of iron. This iron stored as ferritin is called storage iron. Regulation of Total Body Iron by Controlling Absorp- Smaller quantities of the iron in the storage pool are tion Rate. When the body becomes saturated with iron in an extremely insoluble form called hemosiderin. This so that essentially all apoferritin in the iron storage areas is especially true when the total quantity of iron in the is already combined with iron, the rate of additional iron body is more than the apoferritin storage pool can accom- absorption from the intestinal tract markedly decreases. modate. Hemosiderin collects in cells in the form of large Conversely, when the iron stores become depleted, the clusters that can be observed microscopically as large par- rate of absorption can probably accelerate five or more ticles. In contrast, ferritin particles are so small and dis- times normal. Thus, total body iron is regulated mainly by persed that they usually can be seen in the cell cytoplasm altering the rate of absorption. only with an electron microscope. LIFE SPAN OF RED BLOOD CELLS IS When the quantity of iron in the plasma falls low, some ABOUT 120 DAYS of the iron in the ferritin
