Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


an electron microscope. LIFE SPAN OF RED BLOOD CELLS IS When the quantity of iron in the plasma falls low, some ABOUT 120 DAYS of the iron in the ferritin storage pool is removed easily and transported in the form of transferrin in the plasma to When RBCs are delivered from the bone marrow into the areas of the body where it is needed. A unique charac- the circulatory system, they normally circulate an average teristic of the transferrin molecule is that it binds strongly of 120 days before being destroyed. Even though mature with receptors in the cell membranes of erythroblasts in RBCs do not have a nucleus, mitochondria, or endoplasmic the bone marrow. Then, along with its bound iron, it is reticulum, they do have cytoplasmic enzymes that are capa- ingested into the erythroblasts by endocytosis. There the ble of metabolizing glucose and forming small amounts of transferrin delivers the iron directly to the mitochondria, adenosine triphosphate. These enzymes also do the follow- where heme is synthesized. In people who do not have ing: (1) maintain pliability of the cell membrane; (2) main- adequate quantities of transferrin in their blood, failure tain membrane transport of ions; (3) keep the iron of the to transport iron to the erythroblasts in this manner can cells’ hemoglobin in the ferrous form rather than the ferric cause severe hypochromic anemia (i.e., RBCs that contain form; and (4) prevent oxidation of the proteins in the RBCs. much less hemoglobin than normal). Even so, the metabolic systems of old RBCs become pro- When RBCs have lived their life span of about 120 days gressively less active, and the cells become more and more and are destroyed, the hemoglobin released from the cells fragile, presumably because their life processes wear out. is ingested by monocyte- macrophage cells. There, iron is Once the RBC membrane becomes fragile, the cell liberated and is stored mainly in the ferritin pool to be ruptures during passage through some tight spot of the used as needed for the formation of new hemoglobin. circulation. Many of the RBCs self- destruct in the spleen, where they squeeze through the red pulp of the spleen. Daily Loss of Iron. An average man excretes about 0.6 mg There, the spaces between the structural trabeculae of of iron each day, mainly into the feces. Additional quanti- the red pulp, through which most of the cells
