Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


about 0.6 mg There, the spaces between the structural trabeculae of of iron each day, mainly into the feces. Additional quanti- the red pulp, through which most of the cells must pass, ties of iron are lost when bleeding occurs. For a woman, are only 3 micrometers wide, in comparison with the additional menstrual loss of blood brings long- term iron 8- micrometer diameter of the RBC. When the spleen is loss to an average of about 1.3 mg/day. removed, the number of old abnormal RBCs circulating Absorption of Iron From the Intestinal in the blood increases considerably. Tract Destruction of Hemoglobin by Macrophages. When Iron is absorbed from all parts of the small intestine, RBCs burst and release their hemoglobin, the hemoglobin mostly by the following mechanism. The liver secretes is phagocytized almost immediately by macrophages in moderate amounts of apotransferrin into the bile, which many parts of the body, but especially by the Kupffer cells of flows through the bile duct into the duodenum. Here, the the liver and macrophages of the spleen and bone marrow. apotransferrin binds with free iron and also with certain During the next few hours to days, the macrophages release iron compounds, such as hemoglobin and myoglobin iron from the hemoglobin and pass it back into the blood from meat, two of the most important sources of iron in to be carried by transferrin either to the bone marrow for the diet. This combination is called transferrin. In turn, it production of new RBCs or to the liver and other tissues is attracted to and binds with receptors in the membranes for storage in the form of ferritin. The porphyrin portion of of intestinal epithelial cells. Then, by pinocytosis, the the hemoglobin molecule is converted by the macrophages, transferrin molecule, carrying its iron store, is absorbed through a series of stages, into the bile pigment bilirubin, into the epithelial cells and later released into the blood which is released into the blood and later removed from the capillaries beneath these cells in the form of plasma body by secretion through the liver into the bile. This process transferrin. is discussed in relation to liver function in Chapter 71. 445 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation ANEMIAS the number of RBCs formed may be normal, or even much greater than normal in some hemolytic diseases, the life Anemia means deficiency
