Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation ANEMIAS the number of RBCs formed may be normal, or even much greater than normal in some hemolytic diseases, the life Anemia means deficiency of hemoglobin in the blood, span of the fragile RBC is so short that the cells are destroyed which can be caused by too few RBCs or too little hemo- faster than they can be formed, and serious anemia results. globin in the cells. Some types of anemia and their physi- In hereditary spherocytosis, the RBCs are very small ological causes are described in the following sections. and spherical rather than being biconcave discs. These cells cannot withstand compression forces because they Blood Loss Anemia. After rapid hemorrhage, the body do not have the normal loose, baglike cell membrane replaces the fluid portion of the plasma in 1 to 3 days, but structure of the biconcave discs. On passing through the this response results in a low concentration of RBCs. If a splenic pulp and some other tight vascular beds, they are second hemorrhage does not occur, the RBC concentra- easily ruptured by even slight compression. tion usually returns to normal within 3 to 6 weeks. In sickle cell anemia, which is present in 0.3% to 1.0% of When chronic blood loss occurs, a person frequently West African and American blacks, the cells have an abnor- cannot absorb enough iron from the intestines to form mal type of hemoglobin called hemoglobin S, containing hemoglobin as rapidly as it is lost. RBCs that are much faulty beta chains in the hemoglobin molecule, as explained smaller than normal and have too little hemoglobin inside earlier in this chapter. When this hemoglobin is exposed to them are then produced, giving rise to microcytic hypo- low concentrations of oxygen, it precipitates into long crys- chromic anemia, which is shown in Figure 33- 3. tals inside the RBC. These crystals elongate the cell and give Aplastic Anemia Due to Bone Marrow Dysfunction. it the appearance of a sickle rather than a biconcave disc. The Bone marrow aplasia means lack of functioning bone precipitated hemoglobin also damages the cell membrane, marrow. For example, exposure to high-d ose radiation or so the cells become highly fragile, leading to serious anemia. chemotherapy for cancer treatment can damage stem cells Such patients frequently experience a vicious circle of events of the bone marrow, followed in a few weeks by
