Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to serious anemia. chemotherapy for cancer treatment can damage stem cells Such patients frequently experience a vicious circle of events of the bone marrow, followed in a few weeks by anemia. called a sickle cell disease crisis, in which low oxygen tension Likewise, high doses of certain toxic chemicals, such as in the tissues causes sickling, which leads to ruptured RBCs, insecticides or benzene in gasoline, may cause the same which causes a further decrease in oxygen tension and still effect. In autoimmune disorders, such as lupus erythema- more sickling and RBC destruction. Once the process starts, tosus, the immune system begins attacking healthy cells it progresses rapidly, eventuating in a serious decrease in such as bone marrow stem cells, which may lead to aplas- RBCs within a few hours and, in some cases, death. tic anemia. In about half of aplastic anemia cases the cause In erythroblastosis fetalis, Rh- positive RBCs in the is unknown, a condition called idiopathic aplastic anemia. fetus are attacked by antibodies from an Rh-n egative People with severe aplastic anemia usually die unless mother. These antibodies make the Rh- positive cells frag- they are treated with blood transfusions—which can tem- ile, leading to rapid rupture and causing the child to be porarily increase the numbers of RBCs—or by bone mar- born with a serious case of anemia. This condition is dis- row transplantation. cussed in Chapter 36 in relation to the Rh factor of blood. The extremely rapid formation of new RBCs to make up Megaloblastic Anemia. Based on the earlier discussions for the destroyed cells in erythroblastosis fetalis causes a of vitamin B , folic acid, and intrinsic factor from the large number of early blast forms of RBCs to be released 12 stomach mucosa, one can readily understand that loss of from the bone marrow into the blood. any one of these can lead to slow reproduction of eryth- EFFECTS OF ANEMIA ON CIRCULATORY roblasts in the bone marrow. As a result, the RBCs grow SYSTEM FUNCTION too large, with odd shapes, and are called megaloblasts. Thus, atrophy of the stomach mucosa, as occurs in perni- The viscosity of the blood, which was discussed in Chap- cious anemia, or loss of the entire stomach after surgical ter 14, depends largely on the blood concentration of total gastrectomy can lead to megaloblastic anemia. Also, RBCs. In persons with severe anemia, the blood viscosity
