Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


entire stomach after surgical ter 14, depends largely on the blood concentration of total gastrectomy can lead to megaloblastic anemia. Also, RBCs. In persons with severe anemia, the blood viscosity megaloblastic anemia often develops in patients who have may fall to as low as 1.5 times that of water rather than the intestinal sprue, in which folic acid, vitamin B , and other normal value of about 3. This change decreases the resis- 12 vitamin B compounds are poorly absorbed. Because the tance to blood flow in the peripheral blood vessels, so far erythroblasts in these states cannot proliferate rapidly greater than normal quantities of blood flow through the enough to form normal numbers of RBCs, the RBCs that tissues and return to the heart, thereby greatly increas- are formed are mostly oversized, have bizarre shapes, and ing cardiac output. Moreover, hypoxia resulting from have fragile membranes. These cells rupture easily, leaving diminished transport of oxygen by the blood causes the the person in dire need of an adequate number of RBCs. peripheral tissue blood vessels to dilate, allowing a further increase in the return of blood to the heart and increas- Hemolytic Anemia. Different abnormalities of the RBCs, ing the cardiac output to a still higher level—sometimes many of which are acquired through hereditary, make three to four times normal. Thus, one of the major effects the cells fragile, so they rupture easily as they go through of anemia is greatly increased cardiac output, as well as the capillaries, especially through the spleen. Even though increased pumping workload on the heart. 446 Chapter 33 Red Blood Cells, Anemia, and Polycythemia The increased cardiac output in persons with anemia that regulate return of blood to the heart, as discussed in partially offsets the reduced oxygen-c arrying effect of the Chapter 20, increasing blood viscosity decreases the rate anemia because, even though each unit quantity of blood of venous return to the heart. Conversely, the blood vol- carries only small quantities of oxygen, the rate of blood ume is greatly increased in polycythemia, which tends to flow may be increased enough that almost normal quanti- increase venous return. Actually, the cardiac output in ties of oxygen are actually delivered to the tissues. However, polycythemia is not far from normal because these two when a person with anemia begins to exercise, the heart is factors more or less neutralize each other. not
