Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


tissues. However, polycythemia is not far from normal because these two when a person with anemia begins to exercise, the heart is factors more or less neutralize each other. not capable of pumping much greater quantities of blood The arterial pressure is also normal in most people than it is already pumping. Consequently, during exercise, with polycythemia, although in about one-third of them, which greatly increases tissue demand for oxygen, extreme the arterial pressure is elevated. This means that the blood tissue hypoxia results and acute cardiac failure may ensue. pressure–regulating mechanisms can usually offset the tendency for increased blood viscosity to increase periph- POLYCYTHEMIA eral resistance and, thereby, increase arterial pressure. Beyond certain limits, however, these regulations fail, and hypertension develops. Secondary Polycythemia. Whenever the tissues be- The color of the skin depends to a great extent on the come hypoxic because of too little oxygen in the breathed quantity of blood in the skin subpapillary venous plexus. air, such as at high altitudes, or because of failure of oxy- In polycythemia vera, the quantity of blood in this plexus gen delivery to the tissues, such as in cardiac failure, the is greatly increased. Furthermore, because blood passes blood- forming organs automatically produce large quan- sluggishly through the skin capillaries before entering the tities of extra RBCs. This condition is called secondary venous plexus, a larger than normal quantity of hemoglo- polycythemia, and the RBC count commonly rises to 6 to bin is deoxygenated. The blue color of all this deoxygen- 7 million/mm3, about 30% above normal. ated hemoglobin masks the red color of the oxygenated A common type of secondary polycythemia, called phys- hemoglobin. Therefore, a person with polycythemia vera iological polycythemia, occurs in those who live at altitudes ordinarily has a ruddy complexion, with a bluish (cya- of 14,000 to 17,000 feet, where the atmospheric oxygen is notic) tint to the skin. very low. The blood count is generally 6 to 7 million/mm3, which allows these people to perform reasonably high lev- els of continuous work, even in a rarefied atmosphere. Bibliography Polycythemia Vera (Erythremia). In addition to physi- Bizzaro N, Antico A: Diagnosis and classification of pernicious ane- ological polycythemia, a pathological condition known as mia. Autoimmun Rev 13:565, 2014. Franke K, Gassmann M, Wielockx B: Erythrocytosis: the HIF pathway polycythemia vera exists, in which the RBC count may be in control. Blood 122:1122, 2013. 7
