Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


OF POLYCYTHEMIA ON FUNCTION 18:139, 2019. OF THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM Wang CY, Babitt JL: Liver iron sensing and body iron homeostasis. Blood 133:18, 2019. Because of the greatly increased viscosity of blood in poly- Weiss G, Ganz T, Goodnough LT: Anemia of inflammation. Blood cythemia, blood flow through the peripheral blood ves- 133:40, 2019. sels is often very sluggish. In accordance with the factors 447 UNIT VI CHAPTER 3 4 Resistance of the Body to Infection: I. Leukocytes, Granulocytes, the Monocyte- Macrophage System, and Inflammation Our bodies are exposed continually to bacteria, viruses, eosinophils (polymorphonuclear), basophils (polymorpho- fungi, and parasites, all of which occur normally and to nuclear), monocytes, lymphocytes and, occasionally, plasma varying degrees in the skin, mouth, respiratory passage- cells. In addition, there are large numbers of platelets, which ways, intestinal tract, lining membranes of the eyes, and are fragments of another type of cell similar to the WBCs even the urinary tract. Many of these infectious agents found in the bone marrow, the megakaryocyte. The first three are capable of causing serious abnormal physiological types of cells, the polymorphonuclear cells, all have a granu- function or even death if they invade deeper tissues. We lar appearance, as shown in cell numbers 7, 10, and 12 in are also exposed intermittently to other highly infectious Figure 34- 1, and for this reason they are called granulocytes. bacteria and viruses besides those that are normally pres- The granulocytes and monocytes protect the body ent, and these agents can cause acute lethal diseases such against invading organisms by ingesting them (by phago- as pneumonia, streptococcal infection, and typhoid fever. cytosis) or by releasing antimicrobial or inflammatory Our bodies have a special system for combating the dif- substances that have multiple effects that aid in destroy- ferent infectious and toxic agents. This system is composed ing the offending organism. The lymphocytes and plasma of blood leukocytes (white blood cells [WBCs]) and tissue cells function mainly in connection with the immune cells derived from leukocytes. These cells work together system, as discussed in Chapter 35. Finally, the function in two ways to prevent disease: (1) by actually destroying of platelets is specifically to activate the blood-c lotting invading bacteria or viruses by phagocytosis; and (2) by mechanism, discussed in Chapter 37. forming antibodies and sensitized lymphocytes that may destroy or inactivate the invader. This chapter discusses the first of these methods, and
