Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


phagocytosis; and (2) by mechanism, discussed in Chapter 37. forming antibodies and sensitized lymphocytes that may destroy or inactivate the invader. This chapter discusses the first of these methods, and Chapter 35 discusses the second. Concentrations of Different White Blood Cells in Blood. An adult human has about 7000 WBCs per mi- LEUKOCYTES (WHITE BLOOD CELLS) croliter of blood (in comparison with 5 million red blood cells [RBCs] per microliter). Of the total WBCs, the nor- The leukocytes, also called white blood cells, are the mobile mal percentages of the different types are approximately units of the body’s protective system. They are formed the following: partially in the bone marrow (granulocytes and monocytes • Neutrophils: 62.0% and a few lymphocytes) and partially in the lymph tissue • Eosinophils: 2.3% (lymphocytes and plasma cells). After formation, they are • Basophils: 0.4% transported in the blood to different parts of the body • Monocytes: 5.3% where they are needed. • Lymphocytes: 30.0% The real value of WBCs is that most of them are specif- The number of platelets, which are only cell fragments, ically transported to areas of serious infection and inflam- in each microliter of blood is normally between 150,000 mation, thereby providing a rapid and potent defense and 450,000, averaging about 300,000. against infectious agents. As we see later, the granulo- cytes and monocytes have a special ability to “seek out GENESIS OF WHITE BLOOD CELLS and destroy” a foreign invader. Early differentiation of the multipotential hematopoi- GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF etic stem cell into the different types of committed stem LEUKOCYTES cells was shown in Figure 33- 2 in the previous chapter. Aside from the cells committed to form RBCs, two major Types of White Blood Cells. Six types of WBCs are nor- lineages of WBCs are formed, the myelocytic and lym- mally present in the blood: neutrophils (polymorphonuclear), phocytic lineages. The left side of Figure 34- 1 shows the 449 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Genesis of Myelocytes Genesis of Lymphocytes 1 3 2 13 4 8 11 14 5 Figure 34-1. Genesis of white blood cells. The different cells of the myelo- 9 cyte series are shown: 1, myeloblast; 15 2, promyelocyte; 3, megakaryocyte; 4, 6 neutrophil myelocyte; 5, young neutro- phil metamyelocyte; 6, band neutrophil metamyelocyte; 7, neutrophil; 8, eo- sinophil myelocyte; 9, eosinophil meta- 7 10 12 16 myelocyte; 10, eosinophil;
