Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


megakaryocyte; 4, 6 neutrophil myelocyte; 5, young neutro- phil metamyelocyte; 6, band neutrophil metamyelocyte; 7, neutrophil; 8, eo- sinophil myelocyte; 9, eosinophil meta- 7 10 12 16 myelocyte; 10, eosinophil; 11, basophil myelocyte; 12, basophil; 13–16, stages of monocyte formation. myelocytic lineage, beginning with the myeloblast; the needed. In times of serious tissue infection, this total life right side shows the lymphocytic lineage, beginning with span is often shortened to only a few hours because the the lymphoblast. granulocytes proceed even more rapidly to the infected The granulocytes and monocytes are formed only area, perform their functions, and in the process, are in the bone marrow. Lymphocytes and plasma cells are themselves destroyed. produced mainly in the various lymphogenous tissues— The monocytes also have a short transit time, 10 to 20 especially the lymph glands, spleen, thymus, tonsils, and hours in the blood, before wandering through the cap- various pockets of lymphoid tissue elsewhere in the body, illary membranes into the tissues. Once in the tissues, such as in the bone marrow and in Peyer’s patches under- they swell to much larger sizes to become tissue macro- neath the epithelium in the gut wall. phages and, in this form, they can live for months unless The WBCs formed in the bone marrow are stored in destroyed while performing phagocytic functions. These the marrow until they are needed in the circulatory sys- tissue macrophages are the basis of the tissue macrophage tem. Then, when the need arises, various factors cause system (discussed in greater detail later), which provides them to be released (these factors are discussed later). continuing defense against infection. Normally, about three times as many WBCs are stored in Lymphocytes enter the circulatory system continually, the marrow as circulate in the entire blood. This quantity along with drainage of lymph from the lymph nodes and represents about a 6- day supply of these cells. other lymphoid tissue. After a few hours, they pass out The lymphocytes are mostly stored in the various lym- of the blood back into the tissues by diapedesis/extrava- phoid tissues, except for a small number that are tempo- sation. Then, they re- enter the lymph and return to the rarily being transported in the blood. blood again and again; thus, there is continual circulation As shown in Figure 34- 1, megakaryocytes (cell 3) are of lymphocytes through the body. Lymphocytes have life also formed in
