Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


blood again and again; thus, there is continual circulation As shown in Figure 34- 1, megakaryocytes (cell 3) are of lymphocytes through the body. Lymphocytes have life also formed in the bone marrow. These megakaryocytes spans of weeks or months, depending on the body’s need fragment in the bone marrow and the small fragments, for these cells. known as platelets (or thrombocytes), then pass into the The platelets in the blood are replaced about once blood. They are very important in the initiation of blood every 10 days. In other words, about 30,000 platelets are clotting. formed each day for each microliter of blood. LIFE SPAN OF WHITE BLOOD CELLS NEUTROPHILS AND MACROPHAGES DEFEND AGAINST INFECTIONS The life of the granulocytes after being released from the bone marrow is normally 4 to 8 hours circulating in the It is mainly the neutrophils and tissue macrophages that blood and another 4 to 5 days in tissues where they are attack and destroy invading bacteria, viruses, and other 450 Chapter 34 Resistance of the Body to Infection inflamed area are formed (Video 34-1 ). They include the following: (1) some of the bacterial or viral toxins; (2) de- generative products of the inflamed tissues; (3) several reaction products of the complement complex (discussed in Chapter 35) activated in inflamed tissues; and (4) sev- Increased Margination Diapedesis eral reaction products caused by plasma clotting in the permeability inflamed area, as well as other substances. As shown in Figure 34- 2, chemotaxis depends on the concentration gradient of the chemotactic substance. The concentration is greatest near the source, which directs the unidirectional movement of the WBCs. Chemotaxis Chemotaxis is effective up to 100 micrometers away from an inflamed source tissue. Therefore, because almost no tissue area is more than 50 micrometers away from a capillary, the chemo- tactic signal can easily move hordes of WBCs from the capillaries into the inflamed area. Chemotactic substance PHAGOCYTOSIS Figure 34-2. Movement of neutrophils by diapedesis or extravasa- A major function of the neutrophils and macrophages tion through capillary pores and by chemotaxis toward an area of tissue damage. is phagocytosis, which means cellular ingestion of the offending agent. Phagocytes must be selective of the material that is phagocytized; otherwise, normal cells and harmful agents. The neutrophils are mature cells that structures of the body might be ingested. Whether phago- can attack and destroy bacteria, even in the
