Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


phagocytized; otherwise, normal cells and harmful agents. The neutrophils are mature cells that structures of the body might be ingested. Whether phago- can attack and destroy bacteria, even in the circulating cytosis will occur especially depends on three selective blood. Conversely, the tissue macrophages begin life as procedures (Figure 34- 3). blood monocytes, which are immature cells while still in First, most natural structures in the tissues have the blood and have little ability to fight infectious agents smooth surfaces, which resist phagocytosis. However, at that time. However, once they enter the tissues, they if the surface is rough, the likelihood of phagocytosis is begin to swell—sometimes increasing their diameters as increased. much as fivefold—to as great as 60 to 80 micrometers, Second, most natural substances of the body have pro- a size that can barely be seen with the naked eye. These tective protein coats that repel the phagocytes. Conversely, cells are now called macrophages, and they are extremely most dead tissues and foreign particles have no protective capable of combating disease agents in the tissues. coats, which makes them subject to phagocytosis. Third, the immune system of the body (described in White Blood Cells Enter the Tissue Spaces by Diape- Chapter 35) develops antibodies against infectious agents desis. Neutrophils and monocytes can squeeze through such as bacteria. The antibodies then adhere to the bacterial gaps between endothelial cells of the blood capillaries and membranes and thereby make the bacteria especially sus- postcapillary venules by diapedesis. Although the inter- ceptible to phagocytosis. To do this, the antibody molecule cellular gaps are much smaller than a cell, a small portion also combines with the C3 product of the complement cas- of the cell slides through the gap at a time; the portion cade, which is an additional part of the immune system dis- sliding through is momentarily constricted to the size of cussed in the next chapter. The C3 molecules, in turn, attach the gap, as shown in Figure 34- 2 (also see Figure 34- 6). to receptors on the phagocyte membrane, thus initiating phagocytosis. This process whereby a pathogen is selected White Blood Cells Move Through Tissue Spaces by for phagocytosis and destruction is called opsonization. Ameboid Motion. Both neutrophils and macrophages can move through the tissues by ameboid motion, described in Phagocytosis by Neutrophils. The neutrophils enter- Chapter 2. Some cells move at velocities as great as 40
