Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


neutrophils and macrophages can move through the tissues by ameboid motion, described in Phagocytosis by Neutrophils. The neutrophils enter- Chapter 2. Some cells move at velocities as great as 40 μm/ ing the tissues are already mature cells that can imme- min, a distance as great as their own length each minute. diately begin phagocytosis. On approaching a particle to be phagocytized, the neutrophil first attaches itself to the White Blood Cells Are Attracted to Inflamed Tissue particle and then projects pseudopodia in all directions Areas by Chemotaxis. Many different chemical sub- around the particle. The pseudopodia meet one another stances in the tissues cause both neutrophils and mac- on the opposite side and fuse. This action creates an en- rophages to move toward the source of the chemical. This closed chamber that contains the phagocytized particle. phenomenon, shown in Figure 34- 2, is known as chemo- Then, the chamber invaginates to the inside of the cyto- taxis. When a tissue becomes inflamed, at least a dozen plasmic cavity and breaks away from the outer cell mem- different products that can cause chemotaxis toward the brane to form a free-fl oating phagocytic vesicle (also called 451 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Microbe Both neutrophils and macrophages contain an abun- Antibodies dance of lysosomes filled with proteolytic enzymes espe- cially geared for digesting bacteria and other foreign protein matter. The lysosomes of macrophages (but not of neutrophils) also contain large amounts of lipases, which PHAGOCYTOSIS digest the thick lipid membranes possessed by some bac- teria, such as the tuberculosis bacillus. Receptors Neutrophils and Macrophages Can Kill Bacteria. Pseudopod Phagosome In addition to the digestion of ingested bacteria in phago- somes, neutrophils and macrophages contain bactericidal agents that kill most bacteria, even when the lysosomal enzymes fail to digest them. This characteristic is espe- Lysosome cially important because some bacteria have protective coats or other factors that prevent their destruction by Phagolysosome digestive enzymes. Much of the killing effect results from several powerful oxidizing agents formed by enzymes in EXOCYTOSIS the membrane of the phagosome or by a special organelle called the peroxisome. These oxidizing agents include Digestion large quantities of superoxide (O 2−), hydrogen peroxide of microbe (H O ), and hydroxyl ions (OH−), which are lethal to most 2 2 bacteria, even in small quantities. Also, one of the lyso- Microbial debris somal enzymes, myeloperoxidase,
