Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


microbe (H O ), and hydroxyl ions (OH−), which are lethal to most 2 2 bacteria, even in small quantities. Also, one of the lyso- Microbial debris somal enzymes, myeloperoxidase, catalyzes the reaction between H O and chloride ions to form hypochlorite, Figure 34-3. Phagocytosis of pathogens, such as bacteria, by a 2 2 phagocytic cell, such as a macrophage. Antibodies coat the bacteria, which is exceedingly bactericidal. making them more susceptible to phagocytosis by the macrophage Some bacteria, notably the tuberculosis bacillus, that engulfs the bacterium, bringing it into the cell and forming a have coats that are resistant to lysosomal digestion and phagosome. Lysosomes then attach to the phagosome to form a also secrete substances that partially resist the killing phagolysosome, which digests the invading pathogen. The phago- effects of the neutrophils and macrophages. These bac- cytic cell then releases the digested products by exocytosis. teria are responsible for many chronic diseases, such as tuberculosis. a phagosome) inside the cytoplasm. A single neutrophil can usually phagocytize 3 to 20 bacteria before the neu- MONOCYTE- MACROPHAGE CELL trophil becomes inactivated and dies. SYSTEM (RETICULOENDOTHELIAL SYSTEM) Phagocytosis by Macrophages. Macrophages are the end- stage product of monocytes that enter the tissues In the preceding paragraphs, we described the mac- from the blood. When activated by the immune system, rophages mainly as mobile cells capable of wandering as described in Chapter 35, they are much more powerful through the tissues. However, after entering the tissues phagocytes than neutrophils, often capable of phagocyt- and becoming macrophages, another large portion of izing as many as 100 bacteria. They also have the abil- monocytes becomes attached to the tissues and remains ity to engulf much larger particles, even whole RBCs or, attached for months or even years until they are called occasionally, malarial parasites, whereas neutrophils are on to perform specific local protective functions. They not capable of phagocytizing particles much larger than have the same capabilities as the mobile macrophages to bacteria. Also, after digesting particles, macrophages can phagocytize large quantities of bacteria, viruses, necrotic extrude the residual products and often survive and func- tissue, or other foreign particles in the tissue. In addition, tion for many more months. when appropriately stimulated, they can break away from their attachments and, once again, become mobile mac- Once Phagocytized, Most Particles Are Digested by rophages that respond to chemotaxis and all the other Intracellular Enzymes.
