Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


can break away from their attachments and, once again, become mobile mac- Once Phagocytized, Most Particles Are Digested by rophages that respond to chemotaxis and all the other Intracellular Enzymes. Once a foreign particle has been stimuli related to the inflammatory process. Thus, the phagocytized, lysosomes and other cytoplasmic granules body has a widespread monocyte-m acrophage system in in the neutrophil or macrophage immediately come into virtually all tissue areas. contact with the phagocytic vesicle, and their membranes The total combination of monocytes, mobile macro- fuse, thereby dumping many digestive enzymes and bac- phages, fixed tissue macrophages, and a few specialized tericidal agents into the vesicle. Thus, the phagocytic vesi- endothelial cells in the bone marrow, spleen, and lymph cle now becomes a digestive vesicle, and digestion of the nodes is called the reticuloendothelial system. However, phagocytized particle begins immediately. all or almost all these cells originate from monocytic stem 452 Chapter 34 Resistance of the Body to Infection Afferent lymphatics Hepatocytes Endothelial cells Space of Disse Primary Capsule nodule Subcapsular sinus Valve Lymph in medullary sinuses Germinal center Hilus Medullary cord Efferent lymphatics Figure 34-4. Functional diagram of a lymph node. cells; therefore, the reticuloendothelial system is almost Kupffer cells synonymous with the monocyte-m acrophage system. Figure 34-5. Kupffer cells lining the liver sinusoids, showing phago- Because the term reticuloendothelial system is much bet- cytosis of India ink particles into the cytoplasm of the Kupffer cells. ter known in medical literature than the term monocyte- macrophage system, it should be remembered as a the lungs. Large numbers of tissue macrophages are pre- generalized phagocytic system located in all tissues, espe- sent as integral components of the alveolar walls. They cially in the tissue areas where large quantities of particles, can phagocytize particles that become entrapped in the toxins, and other unwanted substances must be destroyed. alveoli. If the particles are digestible, the macrophages can also digest them and release the digestive products into Tissue Macrophages in Skin and Subcutaneous Tissues the lymph. If the particle is not digestible, the macrophag- (Histiocytes). The skin is mainly impregnable to infectious es often form a giant cell capsule around the particle until agents, except when it is broken. When infection begins in a such time—if ever—that it can be slowly dissolved. Such subcutaneous tissue and local inflammation ensues, local tis- capsules are frequently formed around tuberculosis bacilli, sue macrophages can divide in
