Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a such time—if ever—that it can be slowly dissolved. Such subcutaneous tissue and local inflammation ensues, local tis- capsules are frequently formed around tuberculosis bacilli, sue macrophages can divide in situ and form still more mac- silica dust particles, and even carbon particles. rophages. Then, they perform the usual functions of attack- ing and destroying the infectious agents, as described earlier. Macrophages (Kupffer Cells) in Liver Sinusoids. An- other route whereby bacteria invade the body is through Macrophages in Lymph Nodes. Essentially no particu- the gastrointestinal tract. Large numbers of bacteria from late matter that enters the tissues, such as bacteria, can be ingested food constantly pass through the gastrointestinal absorbed directly through the capillary membranes into mucosa into the portal blood. Before this blood enters the the blood. Instead, if the particles are not destroyed locally general circulation, it passes through the liver sinusoids, in the tissues, they enter the lymph and flow to the lymph which are lined with tissue macrophages called Kupffer nodes located intermittently along the course of the lymph cells, shown in Figure 34- 5. These cells form such an ef- flow. The foreign particles are then trapped in these nodes fective particulate filtration system that almost none of in a meshwork of sinuses lined by tissue macrophages. the bacteria from the gastrointestinal tract pass from the Figure 34- 4 illustrates the general organization of portal blood into the general systemic circulation. Indeed, the lymph node, showing lymph entering through the videos of phagocytosis by Kupffer cells have demonstrat- lymph node capsule via afferent lymphatics, then flowing ed phagocytosis of a single bacterium in less than 0.01 through the nodal medullary sinuses, and finally pass- second. ing out the hilus into efferent lymphatics that eventually empty into the venous blood. Macrophages of Spleen and Bone Marrow. If an invad- Large numbers of macrophages line the lymph sinuses ing organism succeeds in entering the general circulation, and if any particles enter the sinuses by way of the lymph there are other lines of defense by the tissue macrophage the macrophages phagocytize them and prevent general system, especially by macrophages of the spleen and bone dissemination throughout the body. marrow. In both these tissues, macrophages become en- trapped by the reticular meshwork of the two organs, and Alveolar Macrophages in Lungs. Another route where- when foreign particles come into contact with these mac- by invading organisms frequently
