Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


trapped by the reticular meshwork of the two organs, and Alveolar Macrophages in Lungs. Another route where- when foreign particles come into contact with these mac- by invading organisms frequently enter the body is through rophages, they are phagocytized. 453 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation system (described in Chapter 35), reaction products of the blood clotting system, and multiple substances called lym- phokines that are released by sensitized T cells (part of the immune system; also discussed in Chapter 35). Several of these substances strongly activate the macrophage system, Pulp and within a few hours, the macrophages begin to devour Capillaries the destroyed tissues. At times, however, the macrophages may also further injure the still-l iving tissue cells. Venous sinuses Walling- Off Effect of Inflammation. One of the first re- Vein sults of inflammation is to wall off the area of injury from Artery the remaining tissues. The tissue spaces and the lymphat- ics in the inflamed area are blocked by fibrinogen clots so that after a while, fluid barely flows through the spaces. This walling- off process delays the spread of bacteria or Figure 34-6. Functional structures of the spleen. toxic products. The intensity of the inflammatory process is usually The spleen is similar to the lymph nodes, except that proportional to the degree of tissue injury. For example, blood, instead of lymph, flows through the tissue spaces of when staphylococci invade tissues, they release extremely the spleen. Figure 34- 6 shows a small peripheral segment lethal cellular toxins. As a result, inflammation develops of spleen tissue. Note that a small artery penetrates from rapidly—indeed, much more rapidly than the staphylo- the splenic capsule into the splenic pulp and terminates in cocci can multiply and spread. Therefore, local staphy- small capillaries. The capillaries are highly porous, allow- lococcal infection is characteristically walled off rapidly ing whole blood to pass out of the capillaries into cords and prevented from spreading through the body. Strep- of red pulp. The blood then gradually squeezes through tococci, in contrast, do not cause such intense local tissue the trabecular meshwork of these cords and eventually destruction. Therefore, the walling-o ff process develops returns to the circulation through the endothelial walls slowly over many hours, while many streptococci repro- of the venous sinuses. The trabeculae of the red pulp and duce and migrate. As a result, streptococci often have a
