Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


walls slowly over many hours, while many streptococci repro- of the venous sinuses. The trabeculae of the red pulp and duce and migrate. As a result, streptococci often have a venous sinuses are lined with vast numbers of macro- far greater tendency to spread through the body and cause phages. This peculiar passage of blood through the cords death than staphylococci, even though staphylococci are of the red pulp provides an exceptional means of phago- far more destructive to the tissues. cytizing unwanted debris in the blood, including espe- cially old and abnormal RBCs. MACROPHAGE AND NEUTROPHIL RESPONSES DURING INFLAMMATION INFLAMMATION: ROLE OF NEUTRO- Tissue Macrophages Provide First Line of Defense PHILS AND MACROPHAGES Against Infection. Within minutes after inflammation INFLAMMATION begins, the macrophages already present in the tissues, whether histiocytes in the subcutaneous tissues, alveolar When tissue injury occurs, whether caused by bacteria, macrophages in the lungs, microglia in the brain, or oth- trauma, chemicals, heat, or any other phenomenon, mul- ers, immediately begin their phagocytic actions. When tiple substances are released by the injured tissues and activated by the products of infection and inflammation, cause dramatic secondary changes in the surrounding the first effect is rapid enlargement of each of these cells. uninjured tissues. This entire complex of tissue changes is Next, many of the previously sessile macrophages break called inflammation. loose from their attachments and become mobile, form- Inflammation is characterized by the following: (1) ing the first line of defense against infection during the vasodilation of the local blood vessels, with consequent first hour or so. The numbers of these early mobilized increased local blood flow; (2) increased permeability of macrophages often are not great, but they are lifesaving. the capillaries, allowing leakage of large quantities of fluid into the interstitial spaces; (3) often, clotting of the fluid Neutrophil Invasion of the Inflamed Area Is a Sec- in the interstitial spaces because of increased amounts of ond Line of Defense. Within the first hour or so after fibrinogen and other proteins leaking from the capillar- inflammation begins, large numbers of neutrophils begin ies; (4) migration of large numbers of granulocytes and to invade the inflamed area from the blood. This invasion monocytes into the tissue; and (5) swelling of the tissue is caused by inflammatory cytokines (e.g., tumor necrosis cells. Some of the many tissue products that cause these factor and interleukin-1 ) and other biochemical
