Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(5) swelling of the tissue is caused by inflammatory cytokines (e.g., tumor necrosis cells. Some of the many tissue products that cause these factor and interleukin-1 ) and other biochemical products reactions are histamine, bradykinin, serotonin, prostaglan- produced by the inflamed tissues that initiate the following dins, several different reaction products of the complement reactions: 454 Chapter 34 Resistance of the Body to Infection Rolling adhesion Tight binding Diapedesis Migration Receptors Neutrophil Endothelial cell Selectin ICAM-1 Cytokines Inflamed tissue Figure 34-7. Migration of neutrophils from the blood into inflamed tissue. Cytokines and other biochemical products of the inflamed tissue cause increased expression of selectins and intercellular adhesion molecule- 1 (ICAM- 1) on the surface of endothelial cells. These adhesion mol- ecules bind to complementary molecules or receptors on the neutrophil, causing it to adhere to the wall of the capillary or venule. The neutrophil then migrates through the vessel wall by diapedesis or extravasation toward the site of tissue injury. 1. They cause increased expression of adhesion mol- neutrophils in the blood sometimes increases fourfold ecules, such as selectins and intercellular adhesion to fivefold—from a normal of 4,000 to 5,000 to 15,000 to molecule-1 (ICAM- 1) on the surface of endothelial 25,000 neutrophils/μl. This is called neutrophilia, which cells in the capillaries and venules. These adhesion means an increase in the number of neutrophils in the molecules, reacting with complementary integrin blood. Neutrophilia is caused by products of inflamma- molecules on the neutrophils, cause the neutro- tion that enter the blood stream, are transported to the phils to stick to the capillary and venule walls in bone marrow, and act there on the stored neutrophils of the inflamed area. This effect is called margination the marrow to mobilize these into the circulating blood. and is shown in Figure 34-2 and in more detail in This makes even more neutrophils available to the in- Figure 34-7 . flamed tissue area. 2. They also cause the intercellular attachments be- tween the endothelial cells of the capillaries and Second Macrophage Invasion Into the Inflamed small venules to loosen, allowing openings large Tissue Is a Third Line of Defense. Along with the in- enough for neutrophils to crawl through the capil- vasion of neutrophils, monocytes from the blood enter laries by diapedesis into the tissue spaces. the inflamed tissue and enlarge to become macrophages. 3. They then cause chemotaxis of the neutrophils to- However,
