Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


monocytes from the blood enter laries by diapedesis into the tissue spaces. the inflamed tissue and enlarge to become macrophages. 3. They then cause chemotaxis of the neutrophils to- However, the number of monocytes in the circulating ward the injured tissues, as explained earlier. The blood is low. Also, the storage pool of monocytes in the entire process of neutrophil (or other substances bone marrow is much less than that of neutrophils. There- and cells such as monocytes) translocation through fore, the buildup of macrophages in the inflamed tissue the capillaries into the tissues surrounding them is area is much slower than that of neutrophils, requiring called extravasation; the specific passage of blood several days to become effective. Furthermore, even after cells through the intact walls of the capillaries is invading the inflamed tissue, monocytes are still immature called diapedesis, although this term is often used cells, requiring 8 hours or more to swell to much larger siz- interchangeably with extravasation when discussing es and develop tremendous quantities of lysosomes. Only blood cell movement through the capillaries into then do they acquire the full capacity of tissue macrophages tissues. for phagocytosis. After several days to several weeks, the Thus, within several hours after tissue damage begins, macrophages finally come to dominate the phagocytic the area becomes well supplied with neutrophils. Because cells of the inflamed area because of greatly increased bone the blood neutrophils are already mature cells, they are marrow production of new monocytes, as explained later. ready to begin their scavenger functions of killing bacteria As already noted, macrophages can phagocytize far and removing foreign matter immediately. more bacteria (about five times as many) and far larger particles, including even neutrophils and large quantities Acute Increase in the Number of Neutrophils in of necrotic tissue, than can neutrophils. Also, the macro- Blood—Neutrophilia. Also, within a few hours after phages play an important role in initiating development of the onset of acute severe inflammation, the number of antibodies, as discussed in Chapter 35. 455 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation INFLAMMATION colony- stimulating factors; one of these, GM- CSF, stim- Activated ulates both granulocyte and monocyte production; the macrophage other two, G- CSF and M- CSF, stimulate granulocyte and monocyte production, respectively. This combination of TNF, IL- 1, and colony- stimulating factors provides a TNF powerful feedback mechanism that begins with tissue IL-1 inflammation and
