Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


CSF, stimulate granulocyte and monocyte production, respectively. This combination of TNF, IL- 1, and colony- stimulating factors provides a TNF powerful feedback mechanism that begins with tissue IL-1 inflammation and proceeds to formation of large num- bers of defensive WBCs that help remove the cause of the inflammation. Endothelial cells, fibroblasts, Formation of Pus TNF lymphocytes IL-1 When neutrophils and macrophages engulf large num- GM-CSF G-CSF bers of bacteria and necrotic tissue, essentially all the GM-CSF M-CSF G-CSF neutrophils and many, if not most, of the macrophages M-CSF eventually die. After several days, a cavity is often exca- vated in the inflamed tissues. This cavity contains varying portions of necrotic tissue, dead neutrophils, dead macro- phages, and tissue fluid. This mixture is commonly known Bone marrow as pus. After the infection has been suppressed, the dead cells and necrotic tissue in the pus gradually autolyze over a period of days, and the end products are eventually Granulocytes absorbed into the surrounding tissues and lymph until Monocytes/macrophages most of the evidence of tissue damage is gone. Figure 34-8. Control of bone marrow production of granulocytes and monocyte-m acrophages in response to multiple growth fac- EOSINOPHILS tors released from activated macrophages in an inflamed tissue. G- CSF, Granulocyte colony- stimulating factor; GM- CSF, granulocyte- The eosinophils normally constitute about 2% of all the monocyte colony-s timulating factor; IL- 1, interleukin-1 ; M-C SF, monocyte colony- stimulating factor; TNF, tumor necrosis factor. blood leukocytes. Eosinophils are weak phagocytes, and they exhibit chemotaxis, but in comparison with neutro- Increased Production of Granulocytes and Mono- phils, it is doubtful that eosinophils are significant in pro- cytes by Bone Marrow Is a Fourth Line of Defense. tecting against the usual types of infection. The fourth line of defense is greatly increased production Eosinophils, however, are often produced in large of granulocytes and monocytes by the bone marrow. This numbers in people with parasitic infections, and they action results from stimulation of the granulocytic and migrate into tissues diseased by parasites. Although most monocytic progenitor cells of the marrow. However, it parasites are too large to be phagocytized by eosinophils takes 3 to 4 days before newly formed granulocytes and or any other phagocytic cells, eosinophils attach them- monocytes reach the stage of leaving the bone marrow. If selves to the parasites by way of special surface molecules the stimulus from the inflamed tissue continues, the bone
