Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


them- monocytes reach the stage of leaving the bone marrow. If selves to the parasites by way of special surface molecules the stimulus from the inflamed tissue continues, the bone and release substances that kill many of the parasites. For marrow can continue to produce these cells in large quan- example, one of the most widespread infections is schis- tities for months and even years, sometimes at a rate 20 to tosomiasis, a parasitic infection found in as many as one - 50 times normal. third of the population of some developing countries in Africa, Asia, and South America. An estimated 85% to Feedback Control of Macrophage and 90% of the world’s cases of schistosomiasis are in Africa. Neutrophil Responses The schistosome parasitic worms can invade any part Although more than two dozen factors have been impli- of the body. Eosinophils attach themselves to the juvenile cated in control of the macrophage response to inflam- forms of the parasite and kill many of them. They do so mation, five of these are believed to play dominant roles. in several ways: (1) by releasing hydrolytic enzymes from They are shown in Figure 34- 8 and consist of the fol- their granules, which are modified lysosomes; (2) prob- lowing: (1) tumor necrosis factor (TNF); (2) interleukin- 1 ably also by releasing highly reactive forms of oxygen that (IL- 1), (3) granulocyte- monocyte colony- stimulating fac- are especially lethal to parasites; and (3) by releasing from tor (GM- CSF); (4) granulocyte colony- stimulating factor the granules a highly larvicidal polypeptide called major (G- CSF); and (5) monocyte colony- stimulating factor (M- basic protein. CSF). These factors are formed by activated macrophage In a few areas of the world, another parasitic disease cells in the inflamed tissues and in smaller quantities by that causes eosinophilia is trichinosis. This disease results other inflamed tissue cells. from invasion of the body’s muscles by the Trichinella The cause of increased production of granulocytes parasite (pork worm) after a person eats undercooked and monocytes by the bone marrow is mainly the three infested pork. 456 Chapter 34 Resistance of the Body to Infection Eosinophils also have a special propensity to collect in always find bacteria on the surfaces of the eyes, urethra, tissues in which allergic reactions occur, such as in the and vagina. Any decrease in the number of WBCs imme- peribronchial tissues of the lungs in
