Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the eyes, urethra, tissues in which allergic reactions occur, such as in the and vagina. Any decrease in the number of WBCs imme- peribronchial tissues of the lungs in people with asthma diately allows invasion of adjacent tissues by bacteria that and in the skin after an allergic skin reaction. This action are already present. is caused at least partly by the fact that many mast cells Within 2 days after the bone marrow stops producing and basophils participate in allergic reactions, as dis- WBCs, ulcers may appear in the mouth and colon, or some cussed in the next paragraph. The mast cells and baso- form of severe respiratory infection might develop. Bacte- phils release an eosinophil chemotactic factor that causes ria from the ulcers rapidly invade surrounding tissues and eosinophils to migrate toward the inflamed allergic tis- the blood. Without treatment, death often ensues in less sue. The eosinophils are believed to detoxify some of the than 1 week after acute total leukopenia begins. inflammation- inducing substances released by the mast Irradiation of the body by x-r ays or gamma rays, or cells and basophils and probably also phagocytize and exposure to drugs and chemicals that contain benzene or destroy allergen-a ntibody complexes, thus preventing anthracene nuclei, is likely to cause aplasia of the bone excess spread of the local inflammatory process. marrow. Some common drugs such as chloramphenicol (an antibiotic), thiouracil (used to treat thyrotoxicosis), BASOPHILS and even various barbiturate hypnotics on rare occasions cause leukopenia, thus setting off the entire infectious The basophils in the circulating blood are similar to the sequence of this disorder. large tissue mast cells located immediately outside many After moderate irradiation injury to the bone marrow, of the capillaries in the body. Both mast cells and baso- some stem cells, myeloblasts, and hemocytoblasts may phils liberate heparin into the blood. Heparin is a sub- remain undestroyed in the marrow and are capable of stance that can prevent blood coagulation. regenerating the bone marrow, provided sufficient time The mast cells and basophils also release histamine, as is available. A patient properly treated with transfusions, well as smaller quantities of bradykinin and serotonin. It is plus antibiotics and other drugs to ward off infection, usu- mainly the mast cells in inflamed tissues that release these ally develops enough new bone marrow within weeks to substances during inflammation. months for blood cell concentrations to
