Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


infection, usu- mainly the mast cells in inflamed tissues that release these ally develops enough new bone marrow within weeks to substances during inflammation. months for blood cell concentrations to return to normal. The mast cells and basophils play an important role in some types of allergic reactions because the type of LEUKEMIAS antibody that causes allergic reactions, immunoglobulin E (IgE), has a special propensity to become attached to Uncontrolled production of WBCs can be caused by can- mast cells and basophils. Then, when the specific anti- cerous mutation of a myelogenous or lymphogenous cell. gen for the specific IgE antibody subsequently reacts This process causes leukemia, which is usually character- with the antibody, the resulting attachment of antigen ized by greatly increased numbers of abnormal WBCs in to antibody causes the mast cell or basophil to release the circulating blood. increased quantities of histamine, bradykinin, sero- There are two general types of leukemia, lymphocytic tonin, heparin, slow- reacting substance of anaphylaxis and myelogenous. The lymphocytic leukemias are caused (a mixture of three leukotrienes), and several lysosomal by cancerous production of lymphoid cells, usually begin- enzymes. These substances cause local vascular and ning in a lymph node or other lymphocytic tissue and tissue reactions that mediate many, if not most, of the spreading to other areas of the body. The second type of allergic manifestations. These reactions are discussed in leukemia, myelogenous leukemia, begins by cancerous greater detail in Chapter 35. production of young myelogenous cells in the bone mar- row and then spreads throughout the body so that WBCs LEUKOPENIA are produced in many extramedullary tissues—especially in the lymph nodes, spleen, and liver. A clinical condition known as leukopenia, in which In myelogenous leukemia, the cancerous process occa- the bone marrow produces very few WBCs, occasion- sionally produces partially differentiated cells, resulting in ally occurs. This condition leaves the body unprotected what might be called neutrophilic leukemia, eosinophilic against many bacteria and other agents that might invade leukemia, basophilic leukemia, or monocytic leukemia. the tissues. More frequently, however, the leukemia cells are bizarre Normally, the human body lives in symbiosis with and undifferentiated and not identical to any of the nor- many bacteria because the mucous membranes of the mal WBCs. Usually, the more undifferentiated the cell, the body are constantly exposed to large numbers of bac- more acute is the leukemia, often leading to death within a teria.
