Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cell activity and interac- Finally, an important effect of leukemia on the body tions with the niche. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 20:303, 2019. is excessive use of metabolic substrates by the growing Russell DG, Huang L, VanderVen BC: Immunometabolism at the cancerous cells. The leukemic tissues reproduce new interface between macrophages and pathogens. Nat Rev Immunol cells so rapidly that tremendous demands are made on 19:291, 2019. Short NJ, Rytting ME, Cortes JE: Acute myeloid leukaemia. Lancet the body reserves for foodstuffs, specific amino acids, 392:593, 2018. and vitamins. Consequently, the energy of the patient is Spivak JL: Myeloproliferative neoplasms. N Engl J Med 376:2168, greatly depleted, and excessive utilization of amino acids 2017. by leukemic cells causes especially rapid deterioration of Watanabe S, Alexander M, Misharin AV, Budinger GRS: The role of the normal protein tissues of the body. Thus, while the macrophages in the resolution of inflammation. J Clin Invest 129: 2619, 2019. leukemic tissues grow, other tissues become debilitated. Werner S, Grose R: Regulation of wound healing by growth factors After metabolic starvation has continued long enough, and cytokines. Physiol Rev 83:835, 2003. this factor alone is sufficient to cause death. Bibliography David BA, Kubes P: Exploring the complex role of chemokines and chemoattractants in vivo on leukocyte dynamics. Immunol Rev 289:9, 2019. DeNardo DG, Ruffell B: Macrophages as regulators of tumour immu- nity and immunotherapy. Nat Rev Immunol 19:369, 2019. 458 CHAPTER 3 5 Resistance of the Body to Infection: II. Immunity and Allergy The human body has the ability to resist almost all types or adaptive immunity. Acquired immunity is caused by of organisms or toxins that tend to damage the tissues a special immune system that forms antibodies and/or and organs. This capability is called immunity. Much of activated lymphocytes that attack and destroy the specific the immunity is acquired immunity that does not develop invading organism or toxin. until after the body is first attacked by a bacterium, virus, Acquired immunity can often bestow an extreme or toxin; often, weeks or months are required for the degree of protection. For example, certain toxins, such immunity to develop. An additional element of immu- as the paralytic botulinum toxin or the tetanizing toxin nity that results from general processes, rather than from of tetanus, can be protected against in doses as high as processes directed at specific disease organisms, is called 100,000 times the
