Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that results from general processes, rather than from of tetanus, can be protected against in doses as high as processes directed at specific disease organisms, is called 100,000 times the amount that would be lethal without innate immunity, which includes the following aspects: immunity. It is for this reason that the treatment process 1. Phagocytosis of bacteria and other invaders by known as immunization is so important in protecting white blood cells and cells of the tissue macrophage people against disease and against toxins, as explained system, as described in Chapter 34 later in this chapter. 2. Destruction of swallowed organisms by the acid se- BASIC TYPES OF ACQUIRED IMMUNITY— cretions of the stomach and the digestive enzymes HUMORAL AND CELL-M EDIATED 3. Resistance of the skin to invasion by organisms 4. Presence in the blood of certain chemicals and Two basic but closely allied types of acquired immunity cells that attach to foreign organisms or toxins and occur in the body. In one of these, the body develops destroy them. Some of these are: (1) lysozyme, a circulating antibodies, which are globulin molecules mucolytic polysaccharide that attacks bacteria and in the blood plasma capable of attacking the invading causes them to dissolute; (2) basic polypeptides, agent. This type of immunity is called humoral immu- which react with and inactivate certain types of nity or B-c ell immunity because B lymphocytes produce gram- positive bacteria; (3) the complement com- the antibodies. The second type of acquired immunity plex, described later, a system of about 20 proteins is achieved through formation of large numbers of that can be activated in various ways to destroy activated T lymphocytes, which are specifically crafted bacteria; and (4) natural killer lymphocytes that can in the lymph nodes to destroy the foreign agent. This recognize and destroy foreign cells, tumor cells, and type of immunity is called cell-m ediated immunity or even some infected cells. T-c ell immunity because the activated lymphocytes This innate immunity makes the human body resistant are T lymphocytes. Both the antibodies and activated to diseases such as some paralytic viral infections of ani- lymphocytes are formed in the lymphoid tissues of the mals, hog cholera, cattle plague, and distemper—a viral body. disease that kills a large percentage of dogs that become afflicted with it. Likewise, many animals are resistant or BOTH TYPES OF ACQUIRED IMMUNITY even immune to many human diseases,
