Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


disease that kills a large percentage of dogs that become afflicted with it. Likewise, many animals are resistant or BOTH TYPES OF ACQUIRED IMMUNITY even immune to many human diseases, such as polio- ARE INITIATED BY ANTIGENS myelitis, mumps, human cholera, measles, and syphilis, which are very damaging or even lethal to humans. Because acquired immunity does not develop until after invasion by a foreign organism or toxin, it is clear that ACQUIRED (ADAPTIVE) IMMUNITY the body must have some mechanism for recognizing this invasion. Each toxin or organism almost always contains In addition to its generalized innate immunity, the human one or more specific chemical compounds in its makeup body has the ability to develop extremely powerful spe- that is (are) different from all other compounds. In gen- cific immunity against individual invading agents such eral, these are proteins or large polysaccharides that ini- as lethal bacteria, viruses, toxins, and even foreign tis- tiate the acquired immunity; these substances are called sues from other animals. This ability is called acquired antigens (antibody generators). 459 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation For a substance to be antigenic, it usually must have the spleen, thymus, and bone marrow plays the specific a high molecular weight of 8000 or more. Furthermore, role of intercepting antigenic agents that have succeeded the process of antigenicity usually depends on regularly in reaching the circulating blood. recurring molecular groups, called epitopes, on the sur- T and B Lymphocytes Promote Cell-M ediated and face of the large molecule. This factor also explains why Humoral Immunity. Although most lymphocytes in nor- proteins and large polysaccharides are almost always mal lymphoid tissue look alike when studied under a mi- antigenic because both these substances have this stereo- croscope, these cells are distinctly divided into two major chemical characteristic. populations. One of the populations, the T lymphocytes, is responsible for forming the activated lymphocytes that LYMPHOCYTES ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR provide cell- mediated immunity, and the other popula- ACQUIRED IMMUNITY tion, the B lymphocytes, is responsible for forming anti- bodies that provide humoral immunity. Acquired immunity is the product of the body’s lympho- Both types of lymphocytes are derived originally in the cytes. In people who have a genetic lack of lymphocytes embryo from multipotent hematopoietic stem cells that or whose lymphocytes have been destroyed by radiation form common lymphoid progenitor cells as one of their or
