Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a genetic lack of lymphocytes embryo from multipotent hematopoietic stem cells that or whose lymphocytes have been destroyed by radiation form common lymphoid progenitor cells as one of their or chemicals, no acquired immunity can develop. Within most important offspring as they differentiate. Almost all days after birth, such a person dies of fulminating bacte- the lymphocytes that are formed eventually end up in the rial infection unless he or she is treated by heroic mea- lymphoid tissue, but before doing so, they are further dif- sures. Therefore, it is clear that lymphocytes are essential ferentiated or preprocessed in the following ways. to the survival of humans. The lymphoid progenitor cells that are eventually des- Lymphocytes are located most extensively in the lymph tined to form activated T lymphocytes first migrate to nodes, but are also found in special lymphoid tissues such and are preprocessed in the thymus gland; thus, they are as the spleen, submucosal areas of the gastrointestinal called T lymphocytes to designate the role of the thymus. tract, thymus, and bone marrow. The lymphoid tissue is They are responsible for cell- mediated immunity. distributed advantageously in the body to intercept invad- The other population of lymphocytes—the B lympho- ing organisms or toxins before they can spread too widely. cytes that are destined to form antibodies—are prepro- In most cases, the invading agent first enters the tissue cessed in the liver during mid–fetal life and in the bone fluids and then is carried by lymph vessels to the lymph marrow in late fetal life and after birth. This population node or other lymphoid tissue. For example, the lymphoid of cells was first discovered in birds, which have a special tissue of the gastrointestinal walls is exposed immediately preprocessing organ called the bursa of Fabricius. For this to antigens invading from the gut. The lymphoid tissue reason, these lymphocytes are called B lymphocytes to of the throat and pharynx (including the tonsils and ade- designate the role of the bursa, and they are responsible noids) is well located to intercept antigens that enter by for humoral immunity. Figure 35- 1 shows the two lym- way of the upper respiratory tract. The lymphoid tissue phocyte systems for formation, respectively, of (1) acti- in the lymph nodes is exposed to antigens that invade the vated T lymphocytes and (2) antibodies. peripheral tissues of the body, and the lymphoid tissue of Cell-Mediated
