Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(1) acti- in the lymph nodes is exposed to antigens that invade the vated T lymphocytes and (2) antibodies. peripheral tissues of the body, and the lymphoid tissue of Cell-Mediated Immunity Thymus Common lymphoid progenitor cell T lymphocyte Peripheral lymphoid tissue Activated T Hematopoietic lymphocytes stem cells Antigen Antibodies Common lymphoid progenitor cell Plasma cell B lymphocyte Developing B cell Humoral Immunity Figure 35- 1. Formation of antibodies and sensitized lymphocytes by a lymph node in response to antigens. This figure also shows the origin of thymic (T) and bursal (B) lymphocytes that, respectively, are responsible for the cell- mediated and humoral immune processes. 460 Chapter 35 Resistance of the Body to Infection: II. Immunity and Allergy PREPROCESSING OF T AND B types of B-l ymphocyte antibodies with different spe- LYMPHOCYTES cific reactivities. After preprocessing, the B lympho- cytes, like the T lymphocytes, migrate to lymphoid Although all lymphocytes in the body originate from tissue throughout the body, where they lodge near lymphocyte- committed stem cells of the embryo, these stem but slightly removed from the T-l ymphocyte areas. cells are incapable of forming activated T lymphocytes or antibodies directly. Before they can do so, they must be fur- T LYMPHOCYTES AND B- LYMPHOCYTE ther differentiated in appropriate processing areas, as follows. ANTIBODIES REACT AGAINST SPECIFIC ANTIGENS—ROLE OF LYMPHOCYTE Thymus Gland Preprocesses T Lymphocytes. The T CLONES lymphocytes, after origination in the bone marrow, first mi- grate to the thymus gland. Here they divide rapidly and, at When specific antigens come into contact with T and B the same time, develop extreme diversity for reacting against lymphocytes in the lymphoid tissue, some of the T lym- different specific antigens. That is, one thymic lymphocyte phocytes become activated to form activated T cells, and develops specific reactivity against one antigen, and then some of the B lymphocytes become activated to form the next lymphocyte develops specificity against another antibodies. The activated T cells and antibodies, in turn, antigen. This process continues until there are thousands react highly specifically against the particular types of of different types of thymic lymphocytes with specific reac- antigens that initiated their development. The mechanism tivities against many thousands of different antigens. These of this specificity is described next. different types of preprocessed T lymphocytes now leave Millions of Specific Types of Lymphocytes Are Stored the thymus and spread via the blood throughout the body to lodge
