Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


described next. different types of preprocessed T lymphocytes now leave Millions of Specific Types of Lymphocytes Are Stored the thymus and spread via the blood throughout the body to lodge in lymphoid tissue everywhere. in Lymphoid Tissue. Millions of different types of pre- The thymus also makes certain that any T lymphocytes formed B lymphocytes and preformed T lymphocytes leaving the thymus will not react against proteins or other capable of forming highly specific types of antibodies or antigens that are present in the body’s own tissues; otherwise, T cells are stored in the lymph tissue, as explained ear- the T lymphocytes would be lethal to the person’s own body lier. Each of these preformed lymphocytes is capable of in only a few days. The thymus selects which T lymphocytes forming only one type of antibody or one type of T cell will be released by first mixing them with virtually all the spe- with a single type of specificity, and only the specific type cific self- antigens from the body’s own tissues. If a T lympho- of antigen can activate it. Once the specific lymphocyte cyte reacts, it is destroyed and phagocytized instead of being is activated by its antigen, it reproduces wildly, forming released, which happens in to up to 90% of the cells. Thus, the tremendous numbers of duplicate lymphocytes (Figure only cells that are finally released are those that are nonreac- 35- 2). If it is a B lymphocyte, its progeny will eventually tive against the body’s own antigens—they react only against secrete the specific type of antibody that then circulates antigens from an outside source, such as from a bacterium, throughout the body. If it is a T lymphocyte, its progeny toxin, or even transplanted tissue from another person. are specific sensitized T cells that are released into the Most of the preprocessing of T lymphocytes in the lymph, carried to the blood, and then circulated through thymus occurs shortly before the birth of a baby and for all the tissue fluids and back into the lymph, sometimes a few months after birth. Beyond this period, removal of circulating around and around in this circuit for months the thymus gland diminishes (but does not eliminate) the or years. T- lymphocytic immune system. However, removal of the All the different lymphocytes that are capable of form- thymus several months before birth can prevent develop- ing one
