Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the or years. T- lymphocytic immune system. However, removal of the All the different lymphocytes that are capable of form- thymus several months before birth can prevent develop- ing one specific antibody or T cell are called a clone of ment of all cell- mediated immunity, including rejection of lymphocytes. That is, the lymphocytes in each clone are transplanted organs. alike, derived originally from one or a few early lympho- cytes of its specific type. Liver and Bone Marrow Preprocess B Lymphocytes. In humans, B lymphocytes are preprocessed in the liver ORIGIN OF THE MANY CLONES OF during midfetal life and in the bone marrow during late LYMPHOCYTES fetal life and after birth. B lymphocytes are different from Only several hundred to a few thousand genes code for T lymphocytes in two ways: the millions of different types of antibodies and T lym- 1. Instead of the whole cell developing reactivity phocytes. At first, it was a mystery how it was possible for against the antigen, as occurs for the T lympho- so few genes to code for the millions of different speci- cytes, the B lymphocytes actively secrete antibodies ficities of antibodies or T cells produced by the lymphoid that are the reactive agents. These agents are large tissue. This mystery has now been solved. proteins that are capable of combining with and The whole gene for forming each type of T cell or B destroying the antigenic substance, explained else- cell is never present in the original stem cells from which where in this chapter and in Chapter 34. the functional immune cells are formed. Instead, there 2. The B lymphocytes have even greater diversity than are only gene segments—actually, hundreds of such seg- the T lymphocytes, thus forming many millions of ments—but not whole genes. During preprocessing of 461 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Developing B Cell almost exactly the same stereochemical characteristics). (bone marrow) The reason for this is the following. In the case of the B lymphocytes, each of these has on its cell surface mem- brane about 100,000 antibody molecules that will react highly specifically with only one type of antigen. There- Different B Cells fore, when the appropriate antigen comes along, it imme- (clones) diately attaches to the antibody in the cell membrane; this leads to the activation process, described in more detail B B B 1 2
