Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


antigen comes along, it imme- (clones) diately attaches to the antibody in the cell membrane; this leads to the activation process, described in more detail B B B 1 2 3 subsequently. In the case of the T lymphocytes, molecules similar to antibodies, called surface receptor proteins (or T- cell receptors), are on the surface of the T-c ell mem- brane, and these are also highly specific for one specified Antigen binding to activating antigen. An antigen therefore stimulates only specific B 2 cell Antigens those cells that have complementary receptors for the antigen and are already committed to respond to it. Role of Macrophages in the Activation Process. Aside B 2 from the lymphocytes in lymphoid tissue, literally mil- lions of macrophages are also present in the same tissue. Proliferation and These macrophages line the sinusoids of the lymph nodes, differentiation of B lymphocytes spleen, and other lymphoid tissue, and they lie in apposi- 2 tion to many of the lymph node lymphocytes. Most invad- ing organisms are first phagocytized and partially digest- ed by the macrophages, and the antigenic products are B B B B 2 2 2 2 liberated into the macrophage cytosol. The macrophages then pass these antigens by cell to cell contact directly to the lymphocytes, thus leading to activation of the speci- fied lymphocytic clones. The macrophages, in addition, Antibodies secrete a special activating substance, interleukin- 1, that secreted promotes still further growth and reproduction of the specific lymphocytes. Role of T Cells in Activation of B Lymphocytes. Most antigens activate both T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes Figure 35- 2. An antigen activates only the lymphocytes that have at the same time. Some of the T cells that are formed, cell surface receptors that are complementary and recognize a spe- called T- helper cells, secrete specific substances (collec- cific antigen. Millions of different clones of lymphocytes exist (shown tively called lymphokines) that activate the specific B lym- as B , B , and B ). When the lymphocyte clone (B in this example) 1 2 3 2 phocytes. Indeed, without the aid of these T- helper cells, is activated by its antigen, it reproduces to form large numbers of duplicate lymphocytes, which then secrete antibodies. the quantity of antibodies formed by the B lymphocytes is usually small. We discuss this cooperative relationship the respective T- and B- cell lymphocytes, these gene seg- between helper
