Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


antibodies. the quantity of antibodies formed by the B lymphocytes is usually small. We discuss this cooperative relationship the respective T- and B- cell lymphocytes, these gene seg- between helper T cells and B cells after describing the ments become mixed with one another in random com- mechanisms of the T- cell system of immunity. binations, finally forming whole genes. SPECIFIC ATTRIBUTES OF THE Because there are several hundred types of gene seg- B- LYMPHOCYTE SYSTEM—HUMORAL ments, as well as millions of different combinations in IMMUNITY AND ANTIBODIES which the segments can be arranged in single cells, one can understand the millions of different cell gene types that can occur. For each functional T or B lymphocyte Antibody Formation by Plasma Cells. Before exposure that is finally formed, the gene structure codes for only a to a specific antigen, the clones of B lymphocytes remain single antigen specificity. These mature cells then become dormant in the lymphoid tissue. On entry of a foreign an- the highly specific T and B cells that spread to and popu- tigen, macrophages in lymphoid tissue phagocytize the late the lymphoid tissue. antigen and then present it to adjacent B lymphocytes. In addition, the antigen is presented to T cells at the same time, and activated T- helper cells are formed. These help- MECHANISM FOR ACTIVATING er cells also contribute to extreme activation of the B lym- LYMPHOCYTE CLONES phocytes, as discussed later. Each clone of lymphocytes is responsive to only a single The B lymphocytes specific for the antigen immedi- type of antigen (or to several similar antigens that have ately enlarge and take on the appearance of lymphoblasts. 462 Chapter 35 Resistance of the Body to Infection: II. Immunity and Allergy Some of the lymphoblasts further differentiate to form (often within hours), is far more potent, and forms anti- plasmablasts, which are precursors of plasma cells. In bodies for many months rather than for only a few weeks. the plasmablasts, the cytoplasm expands, and the rough The increased potency and duration of the secondary endoplasmic reticulum proliferates vastly. The plasma- response explain why immunization is usually accom- blasts then begin to divide at a rate of about once every 10 plished by injecting antigen in multiple doses, with periods hours for about nine divisions, giving a total population of of several weeks or several months between injections. about 500 cells for each original
