Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


antigen in multiple doses, with periods hours for about nine divisions, giving a total population of of several weeks or several months between injections. about 500 cells for each original plasmablast in 4 days. The Generation of Lifelong Immunity by Plasma Cells. mature plasma cell then produces gamma globulin anti- When naïve B lymphocytes encounter their associated bodies at an extremely rapid rate—about 2000 molecules antigens, become activated, and undergo clonal expan- per second for each plasma cell. In turn, the antibodies sion, they differentiate into short-l ived or long-l ived are secreted into the lymph and carried to the circulating plasma cells that produce large amounts of antibodies. blood. This process continues for several days or weeks The short- lived plasma cells provide rapid protection but until, finally, exhaustion and death of the plasma cells undergo apoptosis after a few days of intense antibody occur. secretion. However, the long- lived plasma cells reside Formation of Memory Cells Enhances Antibody in tissues such as the bone marrow and gut- associated Response to Subsequent Antigen Exposure. A few lymphoid tissue and can continue producing antibod- of the lymphoblasts formed by activation of a clone of ies for many years, providing lifelong immunity against B lymphocytes do not go on to form plasma cells but, infectious diseases such as measles and smallpox. High instead, form moderate numbers of new B lymphocytes titers of smallpox- specific antibodies, for example, have similar to those of the original clone. In other words, been detected in the blood of subjects vaccinated in the B- cell population of the specifically activated clone childhood, 70 years previously. Also, older survivors of becomes greatly enhanced, and the new B lymphocytes the 1918 H1N1 influenza virus pandemic were shown to are added to the original lymphocytes of the same clone. possess highly functional, virus- neutralizing antibodies They also circulate throughout the body to populate all to this virulent virus 90 years after they were infected. the lymphoid tissue; immunologically, however, they re- Thus, plasma cells that produce virus- neutralizing anti- main dormant until activated once again by a new quan- bodies can be sustained for many decades after exposure, tity of the same antigen. These lymphocytes are called even into the tenth decade of life in humans. memory cells. Subsequent exposure to the same antigen Nature of Antibodies will cause a much more rapid and potent antibody re- sponse this
