Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the tenth decade of life in humans. memory cells. Subsequent exposure to the same antigen Nature of Antibodies will cause a much more rapid and potent antibody re- sponse this second time around because there are many Antibodies are gamma globulins called immunoglobulins more memory cells than there were original B lympho- (Igs) that have molecular weights between 160,000 and cytes of the specific clone. 970,000 and constitute about 20% of all the plasma pro- Figure 35- 3 shows the differences between the primary teins. All the immunoglobulins are composed of combi- response for forming antibodies that occurs on first expo- nations of light and heavy polypeptide chains. Most are a sure to a specific antigen and the secondary response that combination of two light and two heavy chains, as shown occurs after second exposure to the same antigen. Note the in Figure 35- 4. However, some immunoglobulins have 1- week delay in the appearance of the primary response, its weak potency, and its short life. The secondary response, Antigen by contrast, begins rapidly after exposure to the antigen Antigen-binding sites 100 Secondary Response Variable portion 10 Primary L chig ah int S-S S-S S-S First Response S-S Antigen Injection Second Hinge region 1 Antigen Injection Constant portion Heavy chain 0 10 20 30 60 70 80 90 100 Time (days) Figure 35- 4. Structure of the typical IgG antibody, showing it to be Figure 35- 3. Time course of the antibody response in the circulating composed of two heavy polypeptide chains and two light polypeptide blood to a primary injection of antigen and to a secondary injection chains. The antigen binds at two different sites on the variable por- several weeks later. tions of the chains. 463 noitartnecnoC ydobitnA doolB )stinu yrartibra( UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation combinations of as many as 10 heavy and 10 light chains, which give rise to high-m olecular- weight immunoglobu- lins. Yet, in all immunoglobulins, each heavy chain is par- Antigen alleled by a light chain at one of its ends, thus forming a heavy- light pair; there are always at least two and as many as 10 such pairs in each immunoglobulin molecule. Antibodies Figure 35- 4 shows a designated end of each light and heavy chain, called the variable portion; the remainder of each chain is called the constant portion. The variable portion is different for
