Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


shows a designated end of each light and heavy chain, called the variable portion; the remainder of each chain is called the constant portion. The variable portion is different for each specific antibody, and it is this portion that attaches specifically to a particular type of antigen. The constant portion determines other proper- ties of the antibody, establishing such factors as antibody diffusivity in the tissues, adherence to specific structures in the tissues, attachment to the complement complex, ease with which the antibodies pass through membranes, Figure 35- 5. Binding of antigen molecules to one another by biva- and other biological properties of the antibody. A com- lent antibodies. bination of noncovalent and covalent bonds (disulfide) holds the light and heavy chains together. is especially involved in allergies. The IgM class is also Specificity of Antibodies. Each antibody is specific for interesting because a large share of the antibodies formed a particular antigen; this characteristic is a result of the during the primary response are of this type. These anti- unique structural organization of amino acids in the vari- bodies have 10 binding sites that make them exceedingly able portions of the light and heavy chains. The amino effective in protecting the body against invaders, even acid organization has a different steric shape for each an- though there are not many IgM antibodies. tigen specificity, so when an antigen comes into contact Mechanisms of Action of Antibodies with it, multiple prosthetic groups of the antigen fit as a mirror image with those of the antibody, thus allowing Antibodies act mainly in two ways to protect the body for rapid and tight bonding between the antibody and against invading agents: (1) by direct attack on the antigen. When the antibody is highly specific, there are invader; and (2) by activation of the complement system so many bonding sites that the antibody- antigen coupling that then has multiple means of its own for destroying is exceedingly strong, held together by (1) hydrophobic the invader. bonding; (2) hydrogen bonding; (3) ionic attractions; and Direct Action of Antibodies on Invading Agents. (4) van der Waals forces. It also obeys the thermodynamic mass action law: Figure 35- 5 shows antibodies (designated by the red Y- shaped bars) reacting with antigens (designated by the k =Concentrationofboundantibody‐antigen shaded objects). Because of the bivalent nature of the an- a Concentrationofantibody tibodies and the multiple antigen sites on most
