Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


shaped bars) reacting with antigens (designated by the k =Concentrationofboundantibody‐antigen shaded objects). Because of the bivalent nature of the an- a Concentrationofantibody tibodies and the multiple antigen sites on most invading × Concentrationofantigen agents, the antibodies can inactivate the invading agent in one of several ways, as follows: K is called the affinity constant and is a measure of how a 1. Agglutination, in which multiple large particles tightly the antibody binds with the antigen. with antigens on their surfaces (e.g., bacteria or red Note especially in Figure 35- 4 that there are two vari- cells) are bound together into a clump able sites on the illustrated antibody for attachment of 2. Precipitation, in which the molecular complex of antigens, making this type of antibody bivalent. A small soluble antigen (e.g., tetanus toxin) and antibody proportion of the antibodies, which consist of combina- becomes so large that it is rendered insoluble and tions of up to 10 light and 10 heavy chains, has as many as precipitates 10 binding sites. 3. Neutralization, in which the antibodies cover the Five General Classes of Antibodies. There are five gen- toxic sites of the antigenic agent eral classes of antibodies, respectively named IgM, IgG, 4. Lysis, in which some potent antibodies are occa- IgA, IgD, and IgE. “Ig” stands for immunoglobulin, and the sionally capable of directly attacking membranes of other five letters designate the respective classes. cellular agents and thereby cause rupture of the agent For the purpose of our limited discussion, two of these These direct actions of antibodies often are not strong classes of antibodies are of particular importance—IgG, enough to play a major role in protecting the body against which is a bivalent antibody and constitutes about 75% the invader. Most of the protection occurs through the of the antibodies of the normal person, and IgE, which amplifying effects of the complement system, described constitutes only a small percentage of the antibodies but next. 464 Chapter 35 Resistance of the Body to Infection: II. Immunity and Allergy COMPLEMENT SYSTEM FOR ANTIBODY causing these cells to engulf the bacteria to which ACTION the antigen-a ntibody complexes are attached. This process is called opsonization. It often enhances the The main function of the complement system is to number of bacteria that can be destroyed by many enhance (complement) the actions of antibodies and hundredfold. phagocytic cells in neutralizing and destroying patho-
