Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the complement system is to number of bacteria that can be destroyed by many enhance (complement) the actions of antibodies and hundredfold. phagocytic cells in neutralizing and destroying patho- 2. Lysis. One of the most important of all the products gens, removing damaged cells from the body, and pro- of the complement cascade is the membrane attack moting inflammation. Complement is a collective term complex (also called the cytolytic complex), which is that describes a system of about 20 proteins, many of a combination of multiple complement factors des- which are enzyme precursors. The principal actors in this ignated as C5b6789. This membrane attack complex system are 11 proteins designated C1 through C9, B, and inserts itself into the lipid bilayer of the cell mem- D, shown in Figure 35- 6. All these are present normally brane, creating pores that are permeable to ions and among the plasma proteins in the blood, as well as among causing osmotic rupture of the cell membranes of the proteins that leak out of the capillaries into the tissue bacteria or other invading organisms. spaces. The enzyme precursors are normally inactive but 3. Agglutination. The complement products also can be activated by the so- called classical pathway. change the surfaces of the invading organisms, causing them to adhere to one another, thus pro- Classical Pathway. The classical pathway is initiated by moting agglutination. an antigen-a ntibody reaction. That is, when an antibody 4. Neutralization of viruses. The complement enzymes binds with an antigen, a specific reactive site on the con- and other complement products can attack the stant portion of the antibody becomes uncovered, or ac- structures of some viruses and thereby render them tivated, and this in turn binds directly with the C1 mol- nonvirulent. ecule of the complement system. This sets into motion 5. Chemotaxis. Fragment C5a initiates chemotaxis of a cascade of sequential reactions, shown in Figure 35- 6, neutrophils and macrophages, thus causing large beginning with activation of the proenzyme C1. The C1 numbers of these phagocytes to migrate into the enzymes that are formed then activate successively in- tissue area adjacent to the antigenic agent. creasing quantities of enzymes in the later stages of the 6. Activation of mast cells and basophils. Fragments system so that from a small beginning, an extremely large, C3a, C4a, and C5a activate mast cells and basophils, amplified reaction occurs. Multiple end products
