Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mast cells and basophils. Fragments system so that from a small beginning, an extremely large, C3a, C4a, and C5a activate mast cells and basophils, amplified reaction occurs. Multiple end products are causing them to release histamine, heparin, and formed, as shown at the right in the figure, and several of several other substances into the local fluids. These these have important effects that help prevent damage to substances, in turn, cause increased local blood flow, the body’s tissues caused by the invading organism or tox- increased leakage of fluid and plasma protein into in. Among the more important effects are the following: the tissue, and other local tissue reactions that help 1. Opsonization and phagocytosis. One of the products inactivate or immobilize the antigenic agent. These of the complement cascade, C3b, strongly activates same factors play a major role in inflammation (dis- phagocytosis by neutrophils and macrophages, cussed in Chapter 34) and allergy, discussed later. Antigen-antibody complex Opsonization of bacteria C1 C1 Activate mast cells and basophils C4 + C2 C42 + C4a C3 C3b + C3a Chemotaxis of white blood cells C5 C5b + C5a Microorganism + B and D C6 + C7 C5b67 C8 + C9 C5b6789 Lysis of cells Figure 35- 6. Cascade of reactions during activation of the classical pathway of complement. 465 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation 7. Inflammatory effects. In addition to inflammatory effects caused by activation of the mast cells and T cell basophils, several other complement products con- tribute to local inflammation. These products cause (1) the already increased blood flow to increase still Cell-cell T-cell receptor further; (2) the capillary leakage of proteins to be adhesion Foreign protein proteins increased; and (3) the interstitial fluid proteins MHC protein to coagulate in the tissue spaces, thus preventing movement of the invading organism through the tissues. SPECIAL ATTRIBUTES OF T- LYMPHOCYTE SYSTEM—ACTIVATED T CELLS AND CELL- Antigen- MEDIATED IMMUNITY presenting cell Release of Activated T Cells From Lymphoid Tissue Figure 35- 7. Activation of T cells requires interaction of T-c ell recep- and Formation of Memory Cells. On exposure to the tors with an antigen (foreign protein) that is transported to the sur- proper antigen, as presented by adjacent macrophages, the face of the antigen-p resenting cell by a major histocompatibility com- T lymphocytes of a specific lymphocyte clone proliferate plex (MHC) protein. Cell-to-cell adhesion proteins enable the
