Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


adjacent macrophages, the face of the antigen-p resenting cell by a major histocompatibility com- T lymphocytes of a specific lymphocyte clone proliferate plex (MHC) protein. Cell-to-cell adhesion proteins enable the T cell to bind to the antigen-p resenting cell long enough to become activated. and release large numbers of activated, specifically reacting T cells in ways that parallel antibody release by activated B cells. The principal difference is that instead of releasing to present antigens to T cells. The interaction of cell adhe- antibodies, whole activated T cells are formed and released sion proteins is critical in permitting the T cells to bind to into the lymph. These T cells then pass into the circulation, antigen- presenting cells long enough to become activated. are distributed throughout the body, pass through the cap- The MHC proteins are encoded by a large group of genes illary walls into the tissue spaces, back into the lymph and called the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). The blood again, and circulate again and again throughout the MHC proteins bind peptide fragments of antigen proteins body, sometimes lasting for months or even years. that are degraded inside antigen- presenting cells and then Also, T- lymphocyte memory cells are formed in the transport them to the cell surface. There are two types of same way that B memory cells are formed in the anti- MHC proteins: (1) MHC I proteins, which present anti- body system. That is, when a clone of T lymphocytes is gens to cytotoxic T cells; and (2) MHC II proteins, which activated by an antigen, many of the newly formed lym- present antigens to T- helper cells. The specific functions phocytes are preserved in the lymphoid tissue to become of cytotoxic and T- helper cells are discussed later. additional T lymphocytes of that specific clone; in fact, The antigens on the surface of antigen- presenting cells these memory cells even spread throughout the lymphoid bind with receptor molecules on the surfaces of T cells in tissue of the entire body. Therefore, on subsequent expo- the same way that they bind with plasma protein antibod- sure to the same antigen anywhere in the body, release of ies. These receptor molecules are composed of a variable activated T cells occurs far more rapidly and much more unit similar to the variable portion of the humoral anti- powerfully than during first exposure. body, but its stem section
