Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


activated T cells occurs far more rapidly and much more unit similar to the variable portion of the humoral anti- powerfully than during first exposure. body, but its stem section is firmly bound to the cell mem- Antigen- Presenting Cells, Major Histocompatibil- brane of the T lymphocyte. There are as many as 100,000 ity Complex Proteins, and Antigen Receptors on T receptor sites on a single T cell. Lymphocytes. T-c ell responses are extremely antigen- DIFFERENT TYPES OF T CELLS AND THEIR specific, like the antibody responses of B cells, and are at FUNCTIONS least as important as antibodies in defending against infec- tion. In fact, acquired immune responses usually require It has become clear that there are multiple types of T cells, assistance from T cells to begin the process, and T cells classified into three major groups: (1) T- helper cells; (2) play a major role in helping eliminate invading pathogens. cytotoxic T cells; and (3) regulatory T cells (also called sup- Although B lymphocytes recognize intact antigens, pressor T cells). The functions of each of these T cells are T lymphocytes respond to antigens only when they are distinct. bound to specific molecules called MHC proteins on T-H elper Cells Are the Most Numerous the surface of antigen- presenting cells in the lymphoid T Cells tissues (Figure 35- 7). The three major types of antigen- presenting cells are macrophages, B lymphocytes, and den- The T-h elper cells are the most numerous of the T cells, dritic cells. The dendritic cells (also known as accessory usually constituting more than 75% of all of them. As their cells), the most potent of the antigen- presenting cells, are name implies, they help in the functions of the immune located throughout the body, and their main function is system in many ways. They serve as the major regulator of 466 Chapter 35 Resistance of the Body to Infection: II. Immunity and Allergy virtually all immune functions, as shown in Figure 35- 8. stroyed by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), They do this by forming a series of protein mediators, called which leaves the body almost totally unprotected against lymphokines, that act on other cells of the immune system, infectious disease, therefore leading to the now well- as well as on bone marrow cells. known debilitating and lethal effects of acquired immu- When stimulated, naïve CD4+ T-h elper cells can differ- nodeficiency
