Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


leading to the now well- as well as on bone marrow cells. known debilitating and lethal effects of acquired immu- When stimulated, naïve CD4+ T-h elper cells can differ- nodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Some of the specific regu- entiate into subsets that produce different lymphokines and latory functions are described in the following sections. perform different functions. Table 35- 1 summarizes the main subsets of T-h elper cells, the lymphokines that induce Stimulation of Growth and Proliferation of Cyto- each subset, the lymphokines produced by the subsets, and toxic T Cells and Regulatory T Cells. In the absence of the immunological reactions that each subset triggers. T- helper cells, the clones for producing cytotoxic T cells and regulatory T cells are activated only slightly by most Specific Regulatory Functions of Lymphokines. In the antigens. The lymphokine interleukin- 2 has an especially absence of the lymphokines from the T-h elper cells, the strong stimulatory effect in causing growth and prolifera- remainder of the immune system is almost paralyzed. tion of cytotoxic and regulatory T cells. In addition, sev- In fact, it is the T- helper cells that are inactivated or de- eral of the other lymphokines have less potent effects. Stimulation of B-C ell Growth and Differentiation to Form Plasma Cells and Antibodies. The direct actions Preprocessor of antigens to cause B-c ell growth, proliferation, forma- areas Antigen tion of plasma cells, and secretion of antibodies are also slight without the help of the T- helper cells. Almost all Processed the interleukins participate in the B-c ell response, but es- MHC antigen pecially interleukins 4, 5, and 6. These three interleukins have such potent effects on the B cells that they have been Interleukin-1 Antigen-specific receptor called B- cell stimulating factors or B- cell growth factors. Cytotoxic Activation of the Macrophage System. The lymphokines T cells T-helper also affect the macrophages. First, they slow or stop the mi- cells gration of the macrophages after they have been chemotac- tically attracted into the inflamed tissue area, thus causing much accumulation of macrophages. Second, they activate the macrophages to cause more efficient phagocytosis, al- Lymphokines Suppressor lowing them to attack and destroy increasing numbers of T cells invading bacteria or other tissue-d estroying agents. Feedback Stimulatory Effect on T-H elper Cells. Some Proliferation Differentiation of the lymphokines, especially interleukin- 2, have a di- Plasma rect positive feedback effect in stimulating activation of cells IgM
