Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Feedback Stimulatory Effect on T-H elper Cells. Some Proliferation Differentiation of the lymphokines, especially interleukin- 2, have a di- Plasma rect positive feedback effect in stimulating activation of cells IgM T- helper cells. This acts as an amplifier by further enhanc- IgG ing the helper cell response, as well as the entire immune Antigen response to an invading antigen. IgA Cytotoxic T Cells Are Killer Cells B cell IgE Figure 35- 8. Regulation of the immune system, emphasizing a pivot- The cytotoxic T cell is a direct attack cell that is capable al role of the T-h elper cells. MHC, Major histocompatibility complex. of killing microorganisms and, at times, even some of the Table 35- 1 Subsets of T-h elper Cells T 1 T 2 T 17 H H H Lymphokines that IFN-γ , IL- 12 Il- 4 TGF-β , Il- 1, Il- 6, IL- 23 induce subset Major lymphokines/ IFN-γ , Il- 2 IL- 4, IL- 5, Il- 6, Il- 17, IL- 22 factors produced TNF-α , IL- 10, Il- 13 GM- CSF Major immune Macrophage activation, Stimulate IgE production, Recruitment of neutrophils reactions Stimulate IgG antibody Activation of mast cells and and monocytes production eosinophils 467 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation TOLERANCE OF ACQUIRED IMMUNITY Cytotoxic T cells SYSTEM TO THE BODY’S OWN TISSUES (killer cells) —ROLE OF PREPROCESSING IN THYMUS Cytotoxic AND BONE MARROW and digestive enzymes The process of acquired immunity would destroy the indi- vidual’s own body if that person became immune to his or her own tissues. The immune mechanism normally rec- ognizes a person’s own tissues as being distinctive from bacteria or viruses, and the person’s immunity system forms few antibodies or activated T cells against his or her own antigens. Attacked Specific Antigen cell binding receptors Most Tolerance Results From Clone Selection During Preprocessing. Most tolerance is believed to develop Antigen during the preprocessing of T lymphocytes in the thy- Figure 35-9 . Direct destruction of an invading cell by sensitized lym- mus and of B lymphocytes in the bone marrow. This is phocytes (cytotoxic T cells). because injecting a strong antigen into a fetus while the lymphocytes are being preprocessed in these two areas body’s own cells. For this reason, these cells are called killer prevents development of clones of lymphocytes in the cells. The receptor proteins on the surfaces of the CD8+ lymphoid tissue that
