Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cells. For this reason, these cells are called killer prevents development of clones of lymphocytes in the cells. The receptor proteins on the surfaces of the CD8+ lymphoid tissue that are specific for the injected antigen. cytotoxic cells cause them to bind tightly to the organ- Experiments have shown that specific immature lympho- isms or cells that contain the appropriate binding- specific cytes in the thymus, when exposed to a strong antigen, antigen. They then kill the attacked cell in the manner become lymphoblastic, proliferate considerably, and then shown in Figure 35- 9. After binding, the cytotoxic T cell combine with the stimulating antigen—an effect that is secretes hole-f orming proteins, called perforins, that liter- believed to cause the cells to be destroyed by the thymic ally punch round holes in the membrane of the attacked epithelial cells before they can migrate to and colonize the cell. Fluid then flows rapidly into the cell from the inter- total body lymphoid tissue. stitial space. In addition, the cytotoxic T cell releases cyto- During the preprocessing of lymphocytes in the thy- toxic substances directly into the attacked cell. Almost mus and bone marrow, all or most of the clones of lym- immediately, the attacked cell becomes greatly swollen, phocytes that are specific to damage the body’s own and it usually dissolves shortly thereafter. tissues appear to be self- destroyed because of their con- Of special importance is that these cytotoxic killer tinual exposure to the body’s antigens. cells can pull away from the victim cells after they have punched holes and delivered cytotoxic substances and Failure of the Tolerance Mechanism Causes Auto- then move on to kill more cells. Some of these cells persist immune Diseases. Sometimes, people lose immune for months in the tissues. tolerance of their own tissues. This phenomenon oc- Some of the cytotoxic T cells are especially lethal to tis- curs to a greater extent the older a person becomes. It sue cells that have been invaded by viruses because many usually occurs after destruction of some of the body’s virus particles become entrapped in the membranes of own tissues, which releases considerable quantities of the tissue cells and attract T cells in response to the viral self-a ntigens that circulate in the body and presumably antigenicity. The cytotoxic cells also play an important cause acquired immunity in the form of activated T cells role in destroying cancer
