Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ntigens that circulate in the body and presumably antigenicity. The cytotoxic cells also play an important cause acquired immunity in the form of activated T cells role in destroying cancer cells, heart transplant cells, or or antibodies. other types of cells that are foreign to the person’s own Over 100 diseases that result from autoimmunity body. have been described and include: (1) rheumatic fever, in which the body becomes immunized against tissues Regulatory T Cells in the joints and heart, especially the heart valves, after Much less is known about the regulatory T cells than exposure to a specific type of streptococcal toxin that about the others, but they are capable of suppressing has an epitope in its molecular structure similar to the the functions of both cytotoxic and T- helper cells. These structure of some of the body’s own self- antigens; (2) suppressor functions of the CD4+ regulatory T cells one type of glomerulonephritis, in which the person are believed to prevent the cytotoxic cells from causing becomes immunized against the basement membranes excessive immune reactions that might damage the body’s of glomeruli; (3) myasthenia gravis, in which immunity own tissues. It is probable that the suppressor T-c ell sys- develops against the acetylcholine receptor proteins of tem plays an important role in limiting the ability of the the neuromuscular junction, causing paralysis; (4) mul- immune system to attack a person’s own body tissues, tiple sclerosis (MS), in which the immune system attacks called immune tolerance, as discussed in the next section. the myelin that covers nerve fibers, disrupting nervous 468 Chapter 35 Resistance of the Body to Infection: II. Immunity and Allergy system communication; and (5) systemic lupus erythe- types of allergy and other hypersensitivities, some of matosus (SLE), in which the person becomes immunized which occur only in people who have a specific allergic against many different body tissues at the same time, a tendency. disease that causes extensive damage and even death when SLE is severe. ALLERGY CAUSED BY ACTIVATED T CELLS: DELAYED- REACTION ALLERGY IMMUNIZATION BY INJECTION OF ANTIGENS Delayed- reaction allergy is caused by activated T cells and not by antibodies. In the case of poison ivy, the toxin of Immunization has been used for many years to produce poison ivy in itself does not cause much harm to the tis- acquired immunity against specific diseases. A person can sues. However, on repeated exposure,
