Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


for many years to produce poison ivy in itself does not cause much harm to the tis- acquired immunity against specific diseases. A person can sues. However, on repeated exposure, it does cause the be immunized by injecting dead organisms that are no formation of activated helper and cytotoxic T cells. Then, longer capable of causing disease but that still have some after subsequent exposure to the poison ivy toxin, within of their chemical antigens. This type of immunization is a day or so, the activated T cells diffuse from the circulat- used to protect against typhoid fever, whooping cough, ing blood in large numbers into the skin to respond to diphtheria, and many other types of bacterial diseases. the poison ivy toxin. At the same time, these T cells elicit Immunity can be achieved against toxins that have a cell- mediated type of immune reaction. Remembering been treated with chemicals so that their toxic nature has that this type of immunity can cause release of many toxic been destroyed, even though their antigens for causing substances from the activated T cells, as well as extensive immunity are still intact. This procedure is used in immu- invasion of the tissues by macrophages, along with their nizing against tetanus, botulism, and other similar toxic subsequent effects, one can understand that the eventual diseases. result of some delayed- reaction allergies can be serious And, finally, a person can be immunized by being tissue damage. The damage normally occurs in the tissue infected with live organisms that have been attenuated. area where the instigating antigen is present, such as in That is, these organisms have been grown in special cul- the skin in the case of poison ivy or in the lungs to cause ture media or have been passed through a series of ani- lung edema or asthmatic attacks in the case of some air- mals until they have mutated enough that they will not borne antigens. cause disease but do still carry specific antigens required for immunization. This procedure is used to protect ATOPIC ALLERGIES ASSOCIATED WITH against smallpox, yellow fever, poliomyelitis, measles, and EXCESS IGE ANTIBODIES many other viral diseases. Some people have an allergic tendency. Their allergies PASSIVE IMMUNITY are called atopic allergies because they are caused by a nonordinary response of the immune system. The aller- Thus far, all the acquired immunity we have discussed gic tendency is
