Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are called atopic allergies because they are caused by a nonordinary response of the immune system. The aller- Thus far, all the acquired immunity we have discussed gic tendency is genetically passed from parent to child has been active immunity—that is, the person’s own and is characterized by the presence of large quanti- body develops antibodies or activated T cells in response ties of IgE antibodies in the blood. These antibodies are to invasion of the body by a foreign antigen. However, called reagins or sensitizing antibodies to distinguish them temporary immunity can be achieved in a person with- from the more common IgG antibodies. When an aller- out injecting any antigen. This temporary immunity is gen (defined as an antigen that reacts specifically with a achieved by infusing antibodies, activated T cells, or both specific type of IgE reagin antibody) enters the body, an obtained from the blood of someone else or from some allergen- reagin reaction takes place, and a subsequent other animal that has been actively immunized against allergic reaction occurs. the antigen. A special characteristic of the IgE antibodies (the Antibodies last in the body of the recipient for 2 to reagins) is a strong propensity to attach to mast cells 3 weeks and, during that time, the person is protected and basophils. Indeed, a single mast cell or basophil can against the invading disease. Activated T cells last for a bind as many as a half- million molecules of IgE antibod- few weeks if transfused from another person but only for ies. Then, when an antigen (an allergen) that has multiple a few hours to a few days if transfused from an animal. binding sites binds with several IgE antibodies that are Such transfusion of antibodies or T lymphocytes to con- already attached to a mast cell or basophil, there is an fer immunity is called passive immunity. immediate change in the membrane of the mast cell or basophil, perhaps resulting from a physical effect of the ALLERGY AND HYPERSENSITIVITY antibody molecules to contort the cell membrane. At any rate, many of the mast cells and basophils rupture; others An important undesirable side effect of immunity is the release special agents immediately or shortly thereafter, development, under some conditions, of an allergy or including histamine, protease, slow- reacting substance of other type of immune hypersensitivity. There are several anaphylaxis (a mixture of toxic leukotrienes), eosinophil
