Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


development, under some conditions, of an allergy or including histamine, protease, slow- reacting substance of other type of immune hypersensitivity. There are several anaphylaxis (a mixture of toxic leukotrienes), eosinophil 469 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation chemotactic substance, neutrophil chemotactic substance, irritation of the nose, eliciting the typical sneezing syn- heparin, and platelet- activating factors. These substances drome. cause effects such as dilation of the local blood vessels, attraction of eosinophils and neutrophils to the reactive Asthma. Asthma often occurs in the hypersensitive al- site, increased permeability of the capillaries with loss lergic person. In these individuals, the allergen-r eagin of fluid into the tissues, and contraction of local smooth reaction occurs in the bronchioles of the lungs. Here, an muscle cells. Therefore, several different tissue responses important product released from the mast cells is believed can occur, depending on the type of tissue in which the to be the slow- reacting substance of anaphylaxis (a mix- allergen- reagin reaction occurs. Some of the differ- ture of three leukotrienes), which causes spasm of the ent types of allergic reactions caused in this manner are bronchiolar smooth muscle. Consequently, the person described next. has difficulty breathing until the reactive products of the allergic reaction have been removed. The administration Anaphylaxis—Widespread Allergic Reaction. When a of antihistamine medication has less effect on the course specific allergen is injected directly into the circulation, of asthma because histamine does not appear to be the the allergen can react with basophils of the blood and major factor eliciting the asthmatic reaction. mast cells in the tissues located immediately outside the small blood vessels if the basophils and mast cells have Bibliography been sensitized by the attachment of IgE reagins. There- fore, a widespread allergic reaction occurs throughout the Biglarnia AR, Huber-L ang M, Mohlin C, Ekdahl KN, Nilsson B: The vascular system and closely associated tissues. This reac- multifaceted role of complement in kidney transplantation. Nat Rev Nephrol 14:767, 2018. tion is called anaphylaxis. Histamine is released into the Brynjolfsson SF, Persson Berg L, Olsen Ekerhult T, et al: Long-l ived circulation and causes body- wide vasodilation, as well as plasma cells in mice and men. Front Immunol 2018 Nov 16;9:2673. increased permeability of the capillaries, with a resultant marked loss of plasma from the circulation. Occasionally, Chiossone L, Dumas PY, Vienne M, Vivier E: Natural killer cells and a
