Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Lancet Hay Fever. In hay fever, the allergen- reagin reaction oc- 391:783, 2018. Reis ES, Mastellos DC, Hajishengallis G, Lambris JD: New insights into curs in the nose. Histamine released in response to the the immune functions of complement. Nat Rev Immunol 19:503, reaction causes local intranasal vascular dilation, with 2019. resultant increased capillary pressure and increased cap- Robson KJ, Ooi JD, Holdsworth SR, Rossjohn J, Kitching AR: HLA and illary permeability. Both these effects cause rapid fluid kidney disease: from associations to mechanisms. Nat Rev Nephrol leakage into the nasal cavities and into associated deeper 14:636, 2018. Theofilopoulos AN, Kono DH, Baccala R: The multiple pathways to tissues of the nose, and the nasal linings become swol- autoimmunity. Nat Immunol 18:716, 2017. len and secretory. Here again, the use of antihistamine Yatim N, Cullen S, Albert ML: Dying cells actively regulate adaptive drugs can prevent this swelling reaction. However, other immune responses. Nat Rev Immunol 17:262, 2017. products of the allergen- reagin reaction can still cause 470 CHAPTER 3 6 Blood Types; Transfusion; and Tissue and Organ Transplantation ANTIGENICITY CAUSES IMMUNE blood types, as shown in Table 36- 1, depending on the REACTIONS OF BLOOD presence or absence of the two agglutinogens, the A and B agglutinogens. When neither A nor B aggluti- When blood transfusions from one person to another nogen is present, the blood is type O. When only type were first attempted, immediate or delayed agglutina- A agglutinogen is present, the blood is type A. When tion and hemolysis of the red blood cells (RBCs) often only type B agglutinogen is present, the blood is type occurred, resulting in typical transfusion reactions B. When both A and B agglutinogens are present, the that frequently led to death. Soon it was discovered blood is type AB. that the blood types of different people have different antigenic and immune properties so that antibodies in Genetic Determination of the Agglutinogens. The ABO the plasma of one blood type will react with antigens blood group genetic locus has three alleles, which means on the surfaces of the RBCs of another blood type. If three different forms of the same gene. These three al- proper precautions are taken, one can determine ahead leles—IA, IB, and IO—determine the three blood types. of time whether the antibodies and antigens present in We typically call these alleles A, B, and O, but geneticists the
