Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ahead leles—IA, IB, and IO—determine the three blood types. of time whether the antibodies and antigens present in We typically call these alleles A, B, and O, but geneticists the donor and recipient blood will cause a transfusion often represent alleles of a gene by variations of the same reaction. symbol. In this case, the common symbol is the letter “I,” which stands for immunoglobulin. Multiplicity of Antigens in the Blood Cells The type O allele is functionless or almost function- At least 30 commonly occurring antigens and hundreds less, so it causes no significant type O agglutinogen on of other rare antigens, each of which can at times cause the cells. Conversely, the type A and type B alleles do antigen- antibody reactions, have been found on the sur- cause strong agglutinogens on the cells. Thus, the O faces of the cell membranes of human blood cells. Most allele is recessive to both the A and B alleles, which show of the antigens are weak and therefore are of importance co- dominance. principally for studying the inheritance of genes to estab- Because each person has only two sets of chromosomes, lish parentage. only one of these alleles is present on each of the two chro- Two particular types of antigens are much more likely mosomes in any individual. However, the presence of three than the others to cause blood transfusion reactions. They different alleles means that there are six possible combina- are the O- A- B system of antigens and the Rh system. tions of alleles, as shown in Table 36- 1: OO, OA, OB, AA, BB, and AB. These combinations of alleles are known as O- A- B BLOOD TYPES the genotypes, and each person is one of the six genotypes. One can also observe from Table 36-1 that a person A AND B ANTIGENS—AGGLUTINOGENS with genotype OO produces no agglutinogens, and there- fore the blood type is O. A person with genotype OA or Two antigens—type A and type B—occur on the sur- AA produces type A agglutinogens and therefore has faces of the RBCs in a large proportion of people. It is blood type A. Genotypes OB and BB give type B blood, these antigens (also called agglutinogens because they and genotype AB gives type AB blood. often cause RBC agglutination) that cause most blood Relative Frequencies of Different Blood Types. The transfusion reactions. Because of
