Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


called agglutinogens because they and genotype AB gives type AB blood. often cause RBC agglutination) that cause most blood Relative Frequencies of Different Blood Types. The transfusion reactions. Because of how these agglutino- prevalence of the different blood types among one group gens are inherited, people may have neither of them on of persons studied was approximately as follows: their cells, they may have one, or they may have both simultaneously. • O: 47% • A: 41% Major O-A -B Blood Types. In transfusing blood from • B: 9% one person to another, the blood of donors and re- cipients is normally classified into four major O-A - B • AB: 3% 471 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Table 36- 1 Blood Types With Their Genotypes and 400 Constituent Agglutinogens and Agglutinins Anti-A agglutinins in groups B and O blood Genotypes Blood Types Agglutinogens Agglutinins 300 OO O – Anti- A and Anti- B 200 Anti-B agglutinins OA or AA A A Anti- B in groups A and O blood OB or BB B B Anti- A 100 AB AB A and B – 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90100 Age of person (years) It is obvious from these percentages that the O and Figure 36- 1. Average titers of anti- A and anti- B agglutinins in the A genes occur frequently, whereas the B gene occurs plasma of people with different blood types. infrequently. AGGLUTININS AGGLUTINATION PROCESS IN TRANSFUSION REACTIONS When type A agglutinogen is not present in a person’s RBCs, antibodies known as anti- A agglutinins develop in When bloods are mismatched so that anti-A or anti- B the plasma. Also, when type B agglutinogen is not pres- plasma agglutinins are mixed with RBCs that contain A ent in the RBCs, antibodies known as anti- B agglutinins or B agglutinogens, respectively, the RBCs agglutinate develop in the plasma. as a result of the agglutinins attaching themselves to the Referring once again to Table 36-1 , note that type O RBCs. Because the agglutinins have two binding sites (IgG blood, although containing no agglutinogens, does con- type) or ten binding sites (IgM type), a single agglutinin tain both anti- A and anti- B agglutinins. Type A blood can attach to two or more RBCs at the same time, thereby contains type A agglutinogens and anti- B agglutinins, and causing
