Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


A and anti- B agglutinins. Type A blood can attach to two or more RBCs at the same time, thereby contains type A agglutinogens and anti- B agglutinins, and causing the cells to be bound together by the agglutinin. type B blood contains type B agglutinogens and anti- A This binding causes the cells to clump, which is the pro- agglutinins. Finally, type AB blood contains both A and B cess of agglutination. Then these clumps plug small blood agglutinogens but no agglutinins. vessels throughout the circulatory system. During the Titer of Agglutinins at Different Ages. Immediately ensuing hours to days, physical distortion of the cells or attack by phagocytic white blood cells destroys the mem- after birth, the quantity of agglutinins in the plasma is al- branes of the agglutinated cells, releasing hemoglobin into most zero. At 2 to 8 months after birth, an infant begins the plasma, called hemolysis of the RBCs. to produce agglutinins—anti- A agglutinins when type A agglutinogens are not present in the cells, and anti- B ag- Acute Hemolysis Occurs in Some Transfusion Reac- glutinins when type B agglutinogens are not in the cells. tions. Sometimes, when recipient and donor bloods are Figure 36-1 shows the changing titers of the anti-A and mismatched, immediate hemolysis of RBCs occurs in the anti- B agglutinins at different ages. A maximum titer is circulating blood. In this case, the antibodies cause lysis usually reached at 8 to 10 years of age, and this titer grad- of the RBCs by activating the complement system and ually declines throughout the remaining years of life. forming a membrane attack complex (also called cytol- Origin of Agglutinins in Plasma. The agglutinins are ytic complex) that inserts itself into the lipid bilayer of the cell membranes; this insertion creates membrane pores gamma globulins, as are almost all antibodies, and they that are permeable to ions and causes osmotic lysis of the are produced by the same bone marrow and lymph gland cells, as described in Chapter 35. Immediate intravascu- cells that produce antibodies to any other antigens. Most lar hemolysis is far less common than agglutination fol- of them are IgM and IgG immunoglobulin molecules. lowed by delayed hemolysis, because not only does there But why are these agglutinins produced in people who have to be a high titer of antibodies for lysis to occur, but do not have the respective agglutinogens
