Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


does there But why are these agglutinins produced in people who have to be a high titer of antibodies for lysis to occur, but do not have the respective agglutinogens in their RBCs? also a different type of antibody seems to be required, A possible answer to this question is that small amounts mainly the IgM antibodies; these antibodies are called of type A and B antigens enter the body in food, bacteria, hemolysins. and other ways, and these substances initiate the develop- ment of the anti- A and anti- B agglutinins. BLOOD TYPING For example, infusion of group A antigen into a recipi- ent having a non- A blood type causes a typical immune Before giving a transfusion to a person, it is necessary to response, with formation of more anti- A agglutinins determine the blood type of the recipient and donor blood than ever. Also, the neonate has few, if any, agglutinins, so that the bloods can be appropriately matched. This pro- showing that agglutinin formation occurs almost entirely cess is called blood typing and blood matching, and these after birth. procedures are performed in the following way. The RBCs 472 sninitulgga fo retit egarevA Chapter 36 Blood Types; Transfusion; and Tissue and Organ Transplantation Table 36- 2 Blood Typing: Agglutination of Cells of noted that even in Rh- negative people, some of the other Different Blood Types With Anti-A or Anti- B Agglutinins Rh antigens can still cause transfusion reactions, although in the Sera the reactions are usually much milder. Sera About 85% of all whites are Rh positive, and 15% are Rh negative. In American blacks, the percentage of Rh- Red Blood Cell Types Anti- A Anti- B positives is about 95%, whereas in African blacks, it is O − − nearly 100%. Over 95% of Native Americans and Asians A + − living in China, Japan, and Korea are also Rh positive, B − + and it is estimated that the worldwide frequencies of Rh- AB + + positive and Rh- negative blood types are 95% and 6%, respectively. are first separated from the plasma and diluted with saline Rh IMMUNE RESPONSE solution. One portion is then mixed with anti- A aggluti- Formation of Anti-R h Agglutinins. When RBCs con- nin and another portion is mixed with anti-B agglutinin. taining Rh factor are injected into a person whose blood After several minutes, the mixtures are
