Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


h Agglutinins. When RBCs con- nin and another portion is mixed with anti-B agglutinin. taining Rh factor are injected into a person whose blood After several minutes, the mixtures are observed under does not contain the Rh factor—that is, into an Rh- a microscope. If the RBCs have become clumped—that negative person—anti-R h agglutinins develop slowly, is, agglutinated—then an antibody- antigen reaction has reaching a maximum concentration of agglutinins about resulted. 2 to 4 months later. This immune response occurs to a Table 36-2 lists the presence (+) or absence (−) of much greater extent in some people than in others. With agglutination of the four types of RBCs. Type O RBCs multiple exposures to the Rh factor, an Rh-n egative per- have no agglutinogens and therefore do not react with the son eventually becomes strongly sensitized to Rh factor. anti- A or anti- B agglutinins. Type A blood has A agglu- tinogens and therefore agglutinates with anti-A aggluti- Characteristics of Rh Transfusion Reactions. If an Rh- nins. Type B blood has B agglutinogens and agglutinates negative person has never been exposed to Rh- positive with anti- B agglutinins. Type AB blood has both A and blood, transfusion of Rh- positive blood into that person B agglutinogens and agglutinates with both types of will likely cause no immediate reaction. However, anti-R h agglutinins. antibodies can develop in sufficient quantities during the next 2 to 4 weeks to cause agglutination of the transfused Rh BLOOD TYPES cells that are still circulating in the blood. These cells are then hemolyzed by the tissue macrophage system. Thus, Along with the O- A-B blood type system, the Rh blood a delayed transfusion reaction occurs, although it is usu- type system is also important when transfusing blood. ally mild. On subsequent transfusion of Rh- positive blood The major difference between the O-A - B system and Rh into the same person, who is now already immunized system is the following. In the O- A- B system, the plasma against the Rh factor, the transfusion reaction is greatly agglutinins responsible for causing transfusion reactions enhanced and can be immediate and as severe as a trans- develop spontaneously, whereas in the Rh system, sponta- fusion reaction caused by mismatched type A or B blood. neous agglutinins almost never occur. Instead, the person Erythroblastosis Fetalis (Hemolytic must first be massively exposed to an Rh antigen—such Disease of the
