Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


by mismatched type A or B blood. neous agglutinins almost never occur. Instead, the person Erythroblastosis Fetalis (Hemolytic must first be massively exposed to an Rh antigen—such Disease of the Newborn) as by transfusion of blood containing the Rh antigen— before enough agglutinins to cause a significant transfu- Erythroblastosis fetalis is a disease of the fetus and new- sion reaction will develop. born child characterized by agglutination and phagocyto- sis of the fetus’s RBCs. In most cases of erythroblastosis Rh Antigens—Rh- Positive and Rh-N egative. There are fetalis, the mother is Rh negative and the father is Rh six common types of Rh antigens, each of which is called positive. The baby has inherited the Rh- positive antigen an Rh factor. These types are designated C, D, E, c, d, and from the father, and the mother develops anti-R h aggluti- e. A person who has a C antigen does not have the c anti- nins from exposure to the fetus’s Rh antigen. In turn, the gen, but the person missing the C antigen always has the mother’s agglutinins diffuse through the placenta into the c antigen. The same is true for the D-d and E-e antigens. fetus and cause RBC agglutination. Also, because of the manner of inheritance of these fac- tors, each person has one of each of the three pairs of an- Incidence of Erythroblastosis Fetalis. An Rh- negative tigens. mother having her first Rh- positive child usually does not The type D antigen is widely prevalent in the popula- develop sufficient anti- Rh agglutinins to cause any harm. tion and is considerably more antigenic than the other Rh However, about 3% of second Rh- positive babies exhibit antigens. Anyone who has this type of antigen is said to some signs of erythroblastosis fetalis, about 10% of third be Rh positive, whereas a person who does not have type babies exhibit the disease, and the incidence rises pro- D antigen is said to be Rh negative. However, it must be gressively with subsequent pregnancies. 473 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Effect of Mother’s Antibodies on the Fetus. After anti- The mechanism whereby Rh immunoglobulin globin Rh antibodies have formed in the mother, they diffuse prevents sensitization of the D antigen is not completely slowly through the placental membrane into the fetus’s understood, but one effect of the anti-D antibody is to blood.
