Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


they diffuse prevents sensitization of the D antigen is not completely slowly through the placental membrane into the fetus’s understood, but one effect of the anti-D antibody is to blood. There they cause agglutination of the fetus’s blood. inhibit antigen-i nduced, B lymphocyte antibody produc- The agglutinated RBCs subsequently hemolyze, releasing tion in the expectant mother. The administered anti-D hemoglobin into the blood. The fetus’s macrophages then antibody also attaches to D antigen sites on Rh- positive convert the hemoglobin into bilirubin, which causes the fetal RBCs that may cross the placenta and enter the cir- baby’s skin to become yellow (jaundiced). The antibodies culation of the expectant mother, thereby interfering with can also attack and damage other cells of the body. the immune response to the D antigen. Clinical Picture of Erythroblastosis. The jaundiced, TRANSFUSION REACTIONS RESULTING erythroblastotic newborn baby is usually anemic at birth, FROM MISMATCHED BLOOD TYPES and the anti- Rh agglutinins from the mother usually cir- culate in the infant’s blood for another 1 to 2 months after If donor blood of one blood type is transfused into a birth, destroying more and more RBCs. recipient who has another blood type, a transfusion reac- The hematopoietic tissues of the infant attempt tion is likely to occur in which the RBCs of the donor blood to replace the hemolyzed RBCs. The liver and spleen are agglutinated. It is rare that the transfused blood causes become greatly enlarged and produce RBCs in the same agglutination of the recipient’s cells, for the following rea- manner that they normally do during the middle of gesta- son. The plasma portion of the donor blood immediately tion. Because of the rapid production of RBCs, many early becomes diluted by all the plasma of the recipient, thereby forms of RBCs, including many nucleated blastic forms, decreasing the titer of the infused agglutinins to a level are passed from the baby’s bone marrow into the circu- usually too low to cause agglutination. However, the small latory system, and it is because of the presence of these amount of infused blood does not significantly dilute the nucleated blastic RBCs that the disease is called erythro- agglutinins in the recipient’s plasma. Therefore, the recip- blastosis fetalis. ient’s agglutinins can still agglutinate the mismatched Although the severe anemia of erythroblastosis fetalis is donor cells. usually the cause of death, many children who barely sur- As explained earlier,
