Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ient’s agglutinins can still agglutinate the mismatched Although the severe anemia of erythroblastosis fetalis is donor cells. usually the cause of death, many children who barely sur- As explained earlier, all transfusion reactions eventu- vive the anemia exhibit permanent mental impairment or ally cause immediate hemolysis resulting from hemoly- damage to motor areas of the brain because of precipita- sins or later hemolysis resulting from phagocytosis of tion of bilirubin in the neuronal cells, causing the destruc- agglutinated cells. Hemoglobin released from the RBCs is tion of many of these cells, a condition called kernicterus. then converted by the phagocytes into bilirubin and later Treatment of Neonates With Erythroblastosis Fetalis. excreted in the bile by the liver, as discussed in Chapter One treatment for erythroblastosis fetalis is to replace the 71. The concentration of bilirubin in the body fluids often neonate’s blood with Rh-n egative blood. The Rh-n egative rises high enough to cause jaundice—that is, the person’s blood is infused over a period of 1.5 or more hours while internal tissues and skin become colored with yellow bile the neonate’s own Rh- positive blood is being removed. pigment. However, if liver function is normal, the bile pig- This procedure may be repeated several times during the ment will be excreted into the intestines by way of the first few weeks of life, mainly to keep the bilirubin level liver bile, so jaundice usually does not appear in an adult low and thereby prevent kernicterus. By the time these unless more than 400 milliliters of blood are hemolyzed transfused Rh- negative cells are replaced with the infant’s in less than a day. own Rh- positive cells, a process that requires 6 weeks or Acute Kidney Failure After Transfusion Reactions. more, the anti- Rh agglutinins that had come from the One of the most lethal effects of transfusion reactions is mother will have been destroyed. kidney failure, which can begin within a few minutes to Prevention of Erythroblastosis Fetalis. The D antigen a few hours and continue until the person dies of acute of the Rh blood group system is the primary culprit in renal failure. causing immunization of an Rh- negative mother to an The kidney shutdown seems to have three causes: Rh- positive fetus. In the 1970s, a dramatic reduction in 1. The antigen- antibody reaction of the transfusion re- the incidence of erythroblastosis fetalis was achieved with action
