Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


three causes: Rh- positive fetus. In the 1970s, a dramatic reduction in 1. The antigen- antibody reaction of the transfusion re- the incidence of erythroblastosis fetalis was achieved with action releases toxic substances from the hemolyz- the development of Rh immunoglobulin globin, an anti- ing blood that cause powerful renal vasoconstric- D antibody that is administered to the expectant mother tion. starting at 28 to 30 weeks of gestation. The anti- D anti- 2. Loss of circulating RBCs in the recipient, along body is also administered to Rh-n egative women who with production of toxic substances from the deliver Rh- positive babies to prevent sensitization of the hemolyzed cells and the immune reaction, often mothers to the D antigen. This step greatly reduces the cause circulatory shock. The arterial blood pressure risk of developing large amounts of D antibodies during falls very low, and renal blood flow and urine output the second pregnancy. decrease. 474 Chapter 36 Blood Types; Transfusion; and Tissue and Organ Transplantation 3. If the total amount of free hemoglobin released into ATTEMPTS TO OVERCOME IMMUNE the circulating blood is greater than the quantity REACTIONS IN TRANSPLANTED TISSUE that can bind with haptoglobin (a plasma protein Because of the extreme potential importance of trans- that binds small amounts of hemoglobin), much of planting certain tissues and organs, serious attempts the excess leaks through the glomerular membranes have been made to prevent antigen-a ntibody reactions into the kidney tubules. associated with transplantation. The following specific If this amount is still slight, it can be reabsorbed procedures have met with some degrees of clinical or through the tubular epithelium into the blood and will experimental success. cause no harm; if large, then only a small percentage is reabsorbed. Yet, water continues to be reabsorbed, Tissue Typing—Human Leukocyte Antigen Com- causing the tubular hemoglobin concentration to rise plex of Antigens. The most important antigens for so high that the hemoglobin precipitates and blocks causing graft rejection are a complex called human many of the kidney tubules. Thus, renal vasoconstric- leukocyte antigen (HLA) antigens. Six of these antigens tion, circulatory shock, and renal tubular blockage are present on the tissue cell membranes of each per- together cause acute renal shutdown. If the shutdown son, but there are about 150 different HLA antigens to is complete and fails to resolve, the patient dies within choose from, representing more than 1 trillion possible
