Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the shutdown son, but there are about 150 different HLA antigens to is complete and fails to resolve, the patient dies within choose from, representing more than 1 trillion possible 7 to 12 days, as explained in Chapter 32, unless treated combinations. Consequently, it is virtually impossible with an artificial kidney. for two persons, except in the case of identical twins, to have the same six HLA antigens. Development of significant immunity against any of these antigens can TRANSPLANTATION OF TISSUES AND cause graft rejection. ORGANS The HLA antigens are on the white blood cells, as well as on the tissue cells. Therefore, tissue typing for Most of the different antigens of RBCs that cause trans- these antigens is done on the membranes of lympho- fusion reactions are also widely present in other cells of cytes that have been separated from the person’s blood. the body, and each bodily tissue has its own additional The lymphocytes are mixed with appropriate antisera complement of antigens. Consequently, foreign cells and complement; after incubation, the cells are tested transplanted anywhere into the body of a recipient can for membrane damage, usually by determining the rate produce an immune reaction. In other words, most recip- of transmembrane uptake by the lymphocytic cells of a ients are just as able to resist invasion by foreign tissue special dye. cells as to resist invasion by foreign bacteria or RBCs. Some of the HLA antigens are not severely antigenic. Autografts, Isografts, Allografts, and Xenografts. A Therefore, a precise match of some antigens between transplant of a tissue or whole organ from one part of the donor and recipient is not always essential to allow same animal to another part is called an autograft; from allograft acceptance. By using a more advanced method one identical twin to another, an isograft; from one person of genetic testing and obtaining the best possible match to another or from an animal to another animal of the between donor and recipient, the grafting procedure has same species, an allograft; and from a nonhuman animal become far less hazardous. The best success has been to a human or from an animal of one species to one of with tissue type matches between siblings and between another species, a xenograft. parent and child. The match in identical twins is exact, Transplantation of Cellular Tissues. In the case of auto- so transplants between identical twins
