Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and between another species, a xenograft. parent and child. The match in identical twins is exact, Transplantation of Cellular Tissues. In the case of auto- so transplants between identical twins are almost never rejected because of an immune reaction. grafts and isografts, cells in the transplant contain virtually the same types of antigens as in the tissues of the recipi- Prevention of Graft Rejection by ent and will almost always continue to live normally and Suppressing the Immune System indefinitely if an adequate blood supply is provided. At the other extreme, immune reactions almost always occur in If the immune system were completely suppressed, graft xenografts, causing death of the cells in the graft within 1 rejection would not occur. In fact, in a person who has day to 5 weeks after transplantation unless some specific serious depression of the immune system, grafts can be therapy is used to prevent the immune reactions. successful without the use of significant therapy to pre- Some of the different cellular tissues and organs that vent rejection. However, in the person with a healthy have been transplanted from one person to another as immune system, even with the best possible tissue typing, allografts, either experimentally or for therapeutic pur- allografts seldom resist rejection for more than a few days poses, are skin, kidney, heart, liver, glandular tissue, or weeks without the use of specific therapy to suppress bone marrow, and lung. With proper matching of tissues the immune system. Furthermore, because the T cells between persons, many kidney allografts have been suc- are mainly the portion of the immune system important cessful for at least 5 to 15 years and allograft liver and for killing grafted cells, their suppression is much more heart transplants for 1 to 15 years. important than suppression of plasma antibodies. Some 475 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation of the therapeutic agents that have been used for this pur- therapy attempts to balance acceptable rates of rejection pose include the following: with moderation of the adverse effects of immunosup- 1. Glucocorticoid hormones from adrenal cortex pressive drugs. glands (or drugs with glucocorticoid-l ike activity). These drugs inhibit genes that code for several cy- Bibliography tokines, especially interleukin- 2 (IL-2 ). IL- 2 is an essential factor that induces T- cell proliferation and Branch DR: Anti-A and anti- B: what are they and where do they
