Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


people has been Westhoff CM: Blood group genotyping. Blood. 133:1814, 2019 Westhoff CM: The structure and function of the Rh antigen complex. successful mainly because of the development of drugs Semin Hematol 44:42, 2007. that suppress the responses of the immune system. With Yazer MH, Seheult J, Kleinman S, Sloan SR, Spinella PC: Who’s afraid the introduction of improved immunosuppressive agents, of incompatible plasma? A balanced approach to the safe trans- successful organ transplantation has become much more fusion of blood products containing ABO-i ncompatible plasma. common. The current approach to immunosuppressive Transfusion 58:532, 2018. 476 CHAPTER 3 7 Hemostasis and Blood Coagulation HEMOSTASIS EVENTS fragment into the minute platelets in the bone marrow or soon after entering the blood, especially as they squeeze The term hemostasis means prevention of blood loss. through capillaries. The normal concentration of platelets Whenever a vessel is severed or ruptured, hemostasis is in the blood is between 150,000 and 450,000/μl. achieved by several mechanisms: (1) vascular constric- Platelets have many functional characteristics of whole tion; (2) formation of a platelet plug; (3) formation of a cells, even though they do not have nuclei and cannot blood clot as a result of blood coagulation; and (4) even- reproduce. In their cytoplasm are the following: (1) actin tual growth of fibrous tissue into the blood clot to close and myosin molecules, which are contractile proteins the hole in the vessel permanently. similar to those found in muscle cells, and still another VASCULAR CONSTRICTION contractile protein, thrombosthenin, that can cause the platelets to contract; (2) residuals of both the endo- Immediately after a blood vessel has been cut or rup- plasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus that synthesize tured, the trauma to the vessel wall causes smooth muscle various enzymes and especially store large quantities of in the wall to contract; this instantaneously reduces the calcium ions; (3) mitochondria and enzyme systems that flow of blood from the ruptured vessel. The contraction are capable of forming adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and results from the following: (1) local myogenic spasm; (2) adenosine diphosphate (ADP); (4) enzyme systems that local autacoid factors from the traumatized tissues, vas- synthesize prostaglandins, which are local hormones that cular endothelium, and blood platelets; and (3) nervous cause many vascular and other local tissue reactions; (5) reflexes. The nervous reflexes are initiated by pain nerve an important protein called fibrin- stabilizing factor, which impulses or other
