Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


nervous cause many vascular and other local tissue reactions; (5) reflexes. The nervous reflexes are initiated by pain nerve an important protein called fibrin- stabilizing factor, which impulses or other sensory impulses that originate from the we discuss later in relation to blood coagulation; and (6) traumatized vessel or nearby tissues. However, even more a growth factor that causes vascular endothelial cells, vas- vasoconstriction probably results from local myogenic cular smooth muscle cells, and fibroblasts to multiply and contraction of the blood vessels initiated by direct dam- grow, thus causing cellular growth that eventually helps age to the vascular wall. And, for the smaller vessels, the repair damaged vascular walls. platelets are responsible for much of the vasoconstriction On the platelet cell membrane surface is a coat of glyco- by releasing a vasoconstrictor substance, thromboxane A 2. proteins that repulses adherence to normal endothelium The more severely a vessel is traumatized, the greater and yet causes adherence to injured areas of the vessel the degree of vascular spasm. The spasm can last for many wall, especially to injured endothelial cells and even more minutes or even hours, during which time the processes so to any exposed collagen from deep within the vessel of platelet plugging and blood coagulation can take place. wall. In addition, the platelet membrane contains large FORMATION OF THE PLATELET PLUG amounts of phospholipids that activate multiple stages in the blood- clotting process, as discussed later. If the cut in the blood vessel is very small—many very Thus, the platelet is an active structure. It has a half-l ife small vascular holes develop throughout the body each in the blood of only 8 to 12 days, so over several weeks its day—the cut is often sealed by a platelet plug rather than functional processes run out; it is then eliminated from by a blood clot. To understand this process, it is important the circulation mainly by the tissue macrophage system. that we first discuss the nature of platelets themselves. More than half of the platelets are removed by macro- phages in the spleen, where the blood passes through a Physical and Chemical Characteristics latticework of tight trabeculae. Platelets (also called thrombocytes) are minute discs 1 to Mechanism of Platelet Plug Formation 4 micrometers in diameter. They are formed in the bone marrow from megakaryocytes, which are extremely large Platelet repair of vascular openings is based on several
