Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of Platelet Plug Formation 4 micrometers in diameter. They are formed in the bone marrow from megakaryocytes, which are extremely large Platelet repair of vascular openings is based on several hematopoietic cells in the marrow; the megakaryocytes important functions of the platelet. When platelets 477 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Figure 37- 1. Formation of a platelet plug in a severed blood vessel. Endothelial in- jury and exposure of the vascular extracel- Shape Granule Recruitment lular matrix facilitates platelet adhesions Adhesion change release and activation, which changes their shape (ADP, PAF, TXA ) 2 and causes release of adenosine diphos- phate (ADP), thromboxane A (T A ), 2 X 2 Gplb Aggregation and platelet- activating factor (PAF). These platelet-secreted factors recruit additional platelets (aggregation) to form a hemo- static plug. Von Willebrand factor (vWF) serves as an adhesion bridge between sub- Endothelium vWF endothelial collagen and the glycoprotein Basement Damaged blood Ib (GpIb) platelet receptor. membrane vessel wall come in contact with a damaged vascular surface, especially with collagen fibers in the vascular wall, the platelets rapidly change their own characteristics dras- tically (Figure 37-1 ). They begin to swell, they assume irregular forms with numerous irradiating pseudo- 1. Severed vessel 2. Platelets agglutinate pods protruding from their surfaces, their contractile proteins contract forcefully and cause the release of granules that contain multiple active factors, and they become sticky so that they adhere to collagen in the tissues and to a protein called von Willebrand factor 3. Fibrin appears 4. Fibrin clot forms (vWF), which leaks into the traumatized tissue from the plasma. The platelet surface glycoproteins bind to vWF in the exposed matrix below the damaged endo- thelium. The platelets then secrete increased quanti- ties of ADP and platelet-a ctivating factor (PAF), and their enzymes form thromboxane A . Thromboxane is 5. Clot retraction occurs 2 a vasoconstrictor and, along with ADP and PAF, acts on Figure 37- 2. Clotting process in a traumatized blood vessel. (Modi- nearby platelets to activate them as well; the stickiness fied from Seegers WH: Hemostatic Agents. Springfield, IL: Charles C Thomas, 1948.) of these additional activated platelets causes them to adhere to the original activated platelets. Therefore, at the site of a puncture in a blood vessel BLOOD COAGULATION IN THE RUPTURED wall, the damaged vascular wall activates successively VESSEL increasing numbers of platelets that attract more and
