Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the site of a puncture in a blood vessel BLOOD COAGULATION IN THE RUPTURED wall, the damaged vascular wall activates successively VESSEL increasing numbers of platelets that attract more and more additional platelets, thus forming a platelet plug. The third mechanism for hemostasis is formation of the This plug is loose at first but is usually successful in block- blood clot. The clot begins to develop in 15 to 20 seconds ing blood loss if the vascular opening is small. Then, dur- if the trauma to the vascular wall is severe and in 1 to 2 ing the subsequent process of blood coagulation, fibrin minutes if the trauma is minor. Activator substances from threads form. These threads attach tightly to the platelets, the traumatized vascular wall, from platelets, and from thus constructing an unyielding plug. blood proteins adhering to the traumatized vascular wall Importance of Platelet Mechanism for Closing initiate the clotting process. The physical events of this Vascular Holes. The platelet- plugging mechanism is process are shown in Figure 37- 2; Table 37- 1 lists the most important clotting factors. extremely important for closing minute ruptures in Within 3 to 6 minutes after rupture of a vessel, the very small blood vessels that occur many thousands of entire opening or broken end of the vessel is filled with times daily. Indeed, multiple small holes through the clot if the vessel opening is not too large. After 20 to 60 endothelial cells themselves are often closed by plate- minutes, the clot retracts, which closes the vessel still lets actually fusing with the endothelial cells to form further. Platelets also play an important role in this clot additional endothelial cell membranes. Literally thou- retraction, as discussed later. sands of small hemorrhagic areas develop each day un- der the skin (petechiae, which appear as purple or red FIBROUS ORGANIZATION OR dots on the skin) and throughout the internal tissues DISSOLUTION OF BLOOD CLOTS of a person who has few blood platelets. This phenom- enon does not occur in persons with normal numbers Once a blood clot has formed, it can follow one of two of platelets. courses: (1) it can become invaded by fibroblasts, which 478 Chapter 37 Hemostasis and Blood Coagulation Table 37- 1 Clotting Factors in Blood and Their Prothrombin Synonymsa Prothrombin Ca2+ Clotting Factor Synonym(s) activator Fibrinogen Factor I Thrombin Prothrombin Factor II Tissue factor Factor III; tissue thromboplastin
