Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Table 37- 1 Clotting Factors in Blood and Their Prothrombin Synonymsa Prothrombin Ca2+ Clotting Factor Synonym(s) activator Fibrinogen Factor I Thrombin Prothrombin Factor II Tissue factor Factor III; tissue thromboplastin Fibrinogen Fibrin monomer Calcium Factor IV Ca2+ Factor V Proaccelerin; labile factor; Ac- Fibrin fibers globulin (Ac- G) Factor VII Serum prothrombin conversion Thrombin Activated fibrin-stabilizing accelerator (SPCA); proconvertin; factor stable factor Factor VIII Antihemophilic factor (AHF); Cross-linked fibrin fibers antihemophilic globulin (AHG); Figure 37- 3 Schema for conversion of prothrombin to thrombin and antihemophilic factor A polymerization of fibrinogen to form fibrin fibers. Factor IX Plasma thromboplastin component (PTC); Christmas factor; antihemophilic factor B in the blood vessels. However, when a vessel is ruptured, Factor X Stuart factor; Stuart- Prower factor procoagulants from the area of tissue damage become Factor XI Plasma thromboplastin antecedent activated and override the anticoagulants, and then a clot (PTA); antihemophilic factor C does develop. Factor XII Hageman factor Clotting takes place in three essential steps: Factor XIII Fibrin- stabilizing factor 1. In response to rupture of the vessel or damage to the blood itself, a complex cascade of chemical re- Prekallikrein Fletcher factor actions occurs in the blood involving more than 12 High- molecular- Fitzgerald factor; high-m olecular- blood coagulation factors. The net result is the for- weight kininogen weight kininogen (HMWK) mation of a complex of activated substances collec- Platelets tively called prothrombin activator. aThese are listed here mainly for historical interest. 2. The prothrombin activator catalyzes the conversion of prothrombin into thrombin. 3. The thrombin acts as an enzyme to convert fibrino- subsequently form connective tissue all through the clot; gen into fibrin fibers that enmesh platelets, blood or (2) it can dissolve. The usual course for a clot that forms cells, and plasma to form the clot. in a small hole of a vessel wall is invasion by fibroblasts, We will first discuss the mechanism whereby the blood beginning within a few hours after the clot is formed, clot is formed, beginning with conversion of prothrombin which is promoted at least partially by growth factor to thrombin, and then come back to the initiating stages secreted by platelets. This process continues to complete in the clotting process whereby prothrombin activator is organization of the clot into fibrous tissue within about 1 formed. to 2 weeks. Conversely, when excess blood has leaked into the CONVERSION OF PROTHROMBIN TO tissues, and tissue clots
