Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


organization of the clot into fibrous tissue within about 1 formed. to 2 weeks. Conversely, when excess blood has leaked into the CONVERSION OF PROTHROMBIN TO tissues, and tissue clots have formed where they are not THROMBIN needed, special substances in the clot usually become activated. These substances function as enzymes to dis- 1. Prothrombin activator is formed as a result of rup- solve the clot, as discussed later in the chapter. ture of a blood vessel or as a result of damage to special substances in the blood. MECHANISM OF BLOOD COAGULATION 2. Prothrombin activator, in the presence of sufficient amounts of ionic calcium (Ca2+), causes conver- GENERAL MECHANISM sion of prothrombin to thrombin (Figure 37-3 and 37-4 ). More than 50 important substances that cause or affect 3. Thrombin causes polymerization of fibrinogen blood coagulation have been found in the blood and in molecules into fibrin fibers within another 10 to 15 the tissues—some that promote coagulation, called pro- seconds. coagulants, and others that inhibit coagulation, called Thus, the rate- limiting factor in causing blood coagula- anticoagulants. Whether blood will coagulate depends on tion is usually the formation of prothrombin activator and the balance between these two groups of substances. In not the subsequent reactions beyond that point because the blood stream, the anticoagulants normally predomi- these terminal steps normally occur rapidly to form the nate, so the blood does not coagulate while it is circulating clot. 479 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Prothrombin Thrombin Cross-linked Figure 37- 4. Coagulation cascade after Platelet Fibrinogen Fibrin fibrin vascular injury. Exposure of blood to the Release of phospholipid vascular wall causes release of tissue factor tissue factor complex (also called factor III or thromboplastin) from endothelial cells, phospholipid expression, activation of thrombin, which then acts on fibrinogen to form fibrin, and fibrin polym- erization to form a meshwork that stabilizes the platelet plug. Endothelium Fibrin clot Platelets also play an important role in the conversion Action of Thrombin on Fibrinogen to Form Fibrin. of prothrombin to thrombin because much of the pro- Thrombin is a protein enzyme with weak proteolytic thrombin first attaches to prothrombin receptors on the capabilities. It acts on fibrinogen to remove four low- platelets that are already bound to the damaged tissue. molecular- weight peptides from each molecule of fi- brinogen, forming one molecule of fibrin monomer that Prothrombin and Thrombin.
