Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


four low- platelets that are already bound to the damaged tissue. molecular- weight peptides from each molecule of fi- brinogen, forming one molecule of fibrin monomer that Prothrombin and Thrombin. Prothrombin is a plasma has the automatic capability to polymerize with other fi- protein, an α - globulin, having a molecular weight of 2 brin monomer molecules to form fibrin fibers. Therefore, 68,700. It is present in normal plasma in a concentration many fibrin monomer molecules polymerize within sec- of about 15 mg/dl. It is an unstable protein that can split onds into long fibrin fibers that constitute the reticulum of easily into smaller compounds, one of which is thrombin, the blood clot. which has a molecular weight of 33,700, almost half that In the early stages of polymerization, the fibrin mono- of prothrombin. mer molecules are held together by weak noncovalent Prothrombin is formed continually by the liver, and it hydrogen bonding, and the newly forming fibers are not is continually being used throughout the body for blood cross- linked with one another. Therefore, the resultant clotting. If the liver fails to produce prothrombin, in a day clot is weak and can be broken apart with ease. However, or so prothrombin concentration in the plasma falls too another process occurs during the next few minutes that low to provide normal blood coagulation. greatly strengthens the fibrin reticulum. This process Vitamin K is required by the liver for normal activa- involves a substance called fibrin stabilizing factor that tion of prothrombin, as well as a few other clotting fac- is present in small amounts in normal plasma globulins tors. Therefore, lack of vitamin K or the presence of liver but is also released from platelets entrapped in the clot. disease that prevents normal prothrombin formation can Before fibrin stabilizing factor can have an effect on the decrease the prothrombin to such a low level that a bleed- fibrin fibers, it must be activated. The same thrombin that ing tendency results. causes fibrin formation also activates the fibrin stabiliz- ing factor. This activated substance then operates as an CONVERSION OF FIBRINOGEN TO enzyme to form covalent bonds between more and more FIBRIN—FORMATION OF THE CLOT of the fibrin monomer molecules, as well as multiple cross- linkages between adjacent fibrin fibers, thus adding Fibrinogen Formed in the Liver Essential for Clot For- tremendously to the three- dimensional strength of the mation. Fibrinogen
