Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


well as multiple cross- linkages between adjacent fibrin fibers, thus adding Fibrinogen Formed in the Liver Essential for Clot For- tremendously to the three- dimensional strength of the mation. Fibrinogen is a high- molecular- weight protein fibrin meshwork. (molecular weight ≈340,000) that occurs in the plasma in Blood Clot. The clot is composed of a meshwork of fi- quantities of 100 to 700 mg/dl. Fibrinogen is formed in brin fibers running in all directions and entrapping blood the liver, and liver disease can decrease the concentration cells, platelets, and plasma (see Figure 37- 4). The fibrin of circulating fibrinogen, as it does the concentration of fibers also adhere to damaged surfaces of blood vessels; prothrombin, noted earlier. therefore, the blood clot becomes adherent to any vascu- Because of its large molecular size, little fibrinogen lar opening and thereby prevents further blood loss. normally leaks from the blood vessels into the intersti- tial fluids, and because fibrinogen is one of the essential Clot Retraction and Expression of Serum. Within a few factors in the coagulation process, interstitial fluids ordi- minutes after a clot is formed, it begins to contract and narily do not coagulate. Yet, when the permeability of the usually expresses most of the fluid from the clot within capillaries becomes pathologically increased, fibrinogen 20 to 60 minutes. The fluid expressed is called serum be- does leak into the tissue fluids in sufficient quantities to cause all its fibrinogen and most of the other clotting fac- allow clotting of these fluids in much the same way that tors have been removed; in this way, serum differs from plasma and whole blood can clot. plasma and cannot clot because it lacks these factors. 480 Chapter 37 Hemostasis and Blood Coagulation Platelets are necessary for clot retraction to occur. (1) Tissue trauma Therefore, failure of clot retraction is an indication that the number of platelets in the circulating blood might be low. Electron micrographs of platelets in blood clots show that Tissue factor they become attached to the fibrin fibers in such a way that they actually bond different fibers together. Furthermore, platelets entrapped in the clot continue to release proco- (2) Vll VIIa agulant substances, one of the most important of which is fibrin stabilizing factor, which causes more and more cross-l inking bonds between adjacent fibrin fibers. In addi- X Activated X (Xa) tion, the platelets contribute directly to clot
