Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


which is fibrin stabilizing factor, which causes more and more cross-l inking bonds between adjacent fibrin fibers. In addi- X Activated X (Xa) tion, the platelets contribute directly to clot contraction by activating platelet thrombosthenin, actin, and myosin Ca2+ molecules, which are all contractile proteins in the plate- V Ca2+ lets; they cause strong contraction of the platelet spicules (3) Prothrombin attached to the fibrin. This action also helps compress the activator Platelet fibrin meshwork into a smaller mass. The contraction is phospholipids activated and accelerated by thrombin and by calcium ions Prothrombin Thrombin released from calcium stores in the mitochondria, endo- plasmic reticulum, and Golgi apparatus of the platelets. As the clot retracts, the edges of the broken blood ves- Ca2+ sel are pulled together, thus contributing still further to Figure 37- 5. Extrinsic pathway for initiating blood clotting. hemostasis. POSITIVE FEEDBACK OF CLOT Prothrombin activator is generally considered to be FORMATION formed in two ways, although, in reality, the two ways interact constantly with each other: (1) by the extrinsic Once a blood clot starts to develop, it normally extends pathway that begins with trauma to the vascular wall and within minutes into the surrounding blood—that is, the surrounding tissues; and (2) by the intrinsic pathway that clot initiates a positive feedback to promote more clot- begins in the blood. ting. One of the most important causes of this clot pro- In both the extrinsic and the intrinsic pathways, a motion is that the proteolytic action of thrombin allows series of different plasma proteins called blood- clotting it to act on many of the other blood-c lotting factors in factors plays a major role. Most of these proteins are inac- addition to fibrinogen. For example, thrombin has a direct tive forms of proteolytic enzymes. When converted to the proteolytic effect on prothrombin, tending to convert it active forms, their enzymatic actions cause the successive, into still more thrombin, and it acts on some of the blood- cascading reactions of the clotting process. clotting factors responsible for formation of prothrombin Most of the clotting factors listed in Table 37- 1 are activator. (These effects, discussed in subsequent para- designated by Roman numerals. To indicate the activated graphs, include acceleration of the actions of factors VIII, form of the factor, a small letter “a” is added after the IX, X, XI, and XII and aggregation of platelets.) Once a Roman
