Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the actions of factors VIII, form of the factor, a small letter “a” is added after the IX, X, XI, and XII and aggregation of platelets.) Once a Roman numeral, such as factor VIIIa to indicate the acti- critical amount of thrombin is formed, a positive feedback vated state of factor VIII. develops that causes still more blood clotting and more and more thrombin to be formed; thus, the blood clot Extrinsic Pathway for Initiating Clotting continues to grow until blood leakage ceases. The extrinsic pathway for initiating the formation of INITIATION OF COAGULATION: prothrombin activator begins with a traumatized vas- FORMATION OF PROTHROMBIN cular wall or traumatized extravascular tissues that ACTIVATOR come in contact with the blood. This condition leads to the following steps, as shown in Figure 37-4 and Now that we have discussed the clotting process, the Figure 37-5 : more complex mechanisms that initiate clotting in the 1. Release of tissue factor. Traumatized tissue releases first place will be described. These mechanisms are set a complex of several factors called tissue factor or into play by the following: (1) trauma to the vascular wall tissue thromboplastin. This factor is composed es- and adjacent tissues; (2) trauma to the blood; or (3) con- pecially of phospholipids from the membranes of tact of the blood with damaged endothelial cells or with the tissue plus a lipoprotein complex that functions collagen and other tissue elements outside the blood ves- mainly as a proteolytic enzyme. sel. In each case, this leads to the formation of prothrom- 2. Activation of factor X—role of factor VII and tissue bin activator, which then causes prothrombin conversion factor. The lipoprotein complex of tissue factor fur- to thrombin and all the subsequent clotting steps. ther complexes with blood coagulation factor VII 481 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation and, in the presence of calcium ions, acts enzymati- Intrinsic Pathway for Initiating Clotting cally on factor X to form activated factor X (Xa). The second mechanism for initiating formation of pro- 3. Effect of Xa to form prothrombin activator—role thrombin activator, and therefore for initiating clotting, of factor V. The activated factor X combines im- begins with trauma to the blood or exposure of the blood mediately with tissue phospholipids that are part to collagen from a traumatized blood vessel wall. Then the of tissue factors or with additional phospholipids process
