Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


or exposure of the blood mediately with tissue phospholipids that are part to collagen from a traumatized blood vessel wall. Then the of tissue factors or with additional phospholipids process continues through the series of cascading reac- released from platelets, as well as with factor V, tions shown in Figure 37- 6. to form the complex called prothrombin activator. 1. Blood trauma causes (1) activation of factor XII and Within a few seconds, in the presence of Ca2+, pro- (2) release of platelet phospholipids. Trauma to the thrombin is split to form thrombin, and the clot- blood or exposure of the blood to vascular wall col- ting process proceeds as already explained. At first, lagen alters two important clotting factors in the the factor V in the prothrombin activator complex blood: factor XII and the platelets. When factor XII is inactive, but once clotting begins and thrombin is disturbed, such as by coming into contact with begins to form, the proteolytic action of thrombin collagen or with a wettable surface such as glass, it activates factor V. This activation then becomes an takes on a new molecular configuration that con- additional strong accelerator of prothrombin ac- verts it into a proteolytic enzyme called activated tivation. Thus, in the final prothrombin activator factor XII. Simultaneously, the blood trauma also complex, activated factor X is the actual protease damages the platelets because of adherence to col- that causes splitting of prothrombin to form throm- lagen or to a wettable surface (or by damage in other bin. Activated factor V greatly accelerates this pro- ways); this releases platelet phospholipids that con- tease activity, and platelet phospholipids act as a tain the lipoprotein called platelet factor 3, which vehicle that further accelerates the process. Note also plays a role in subsequent clotting reactions. especially the positive feedback effect of thrombin, 2. Activation of factor XI. The activated factor XII also acting through factor V, to accelerate the entire pro- acts enzymatically on factor XI to activate this fac- cess once it begins. tor, which is the second step in the intrinsic path- Blood trauma or contact with collagen (1) XII Activated XII (XIIa) (HMW kininogen, prekallikrein) (2) XI Activated XI (XIa) Ca2+ (3) IX Activated IX (IXa) VIII Thrombin VIIIa Ca2+ (4) X Activated X (Xa) Platelet (5) phospholipids Thrombin Ca2+ V Prothrombin activator Platelet phospholipids Prothrombin Thrombin Figure 37- 6. Intrinsic pathway for
