Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Activated IX (IXa) VIII Thrombin VIIIa Ca2+ (4) X Activated X (Xa) Platelet (5) phospholipids Thrombin Ca2+ V Prothrombin activator Platelet phospholipids Prothrombin Thrombin Figure 37- 6. Intrinsic pathway for initiating blood clotting. HMW, High-m olecular weight. Ca2+ 482 Chapter 37 Hemostasis and Blood Coagulation way. This reaction also requires high- molecular- the blood. With severe tissue trauma, clotting can occur weight kininogen and is accelerated by prekallikrein. in as little as 15 seconds. The intrinsic pathway is much 3. Activation of factor IX by activated factor XI. The slower to proceed, usually requiring 1 to 6 minutes to activated factor XI then acts enzymatically on fac- cause clotting. tor IX to activate this factor as well. Intravascular Anticoagulants Prevent Blood 4. Activation of factor X—role of factor VIII. The acti- Clotting in the Normal Vascular System vated factor IX, acting in concert with activated fac- tor VIII and the platelet phospholipids and factor III Endothelial Surface Factors. Probably the most impor- from the traumatized platelets, activates factor X. It tant factors for preventing clotting in the normal vas- is clear that when either factor VIII or platelets are cular system are the following: (1) the smoothness of the in short supply, this step is deficient. Factor VIII is endothelial cell surface, which prevents contact activation the factor that is missing in a person who has clas- of the intrinsic clotting system; (2) a layer of glycocalyx on sic hemophilia, so it is called antihemophilic factor. the endothelium (glycocalyx is a mucopolysaccharide ad- Platelets are the clotting factor that is lacking in the sorbed to the surfaces of the endothelial cells), which repels bleeding disease called thrombocytopenia. clotting factors and platelets, thereby preventing activation 5. Action of activated factor X to form prothrombin of clotting; and (3) a protein bound with the endothelial activator—role of factor V. This step in the intrinsic membrane, thrombomodulin, which binds thrombin. Not pathway is the same as the last step in the extrinsic only does the binding of thrombin with thrombomodulin pathway. That is, activated factor X combines with slow the clotting process by removing thrombin, but the factor V and platelet or tissue phospholipids to form thrombomodulin- thrombin complex also activates a plas- the complex called prothrombin activator. The pro- ma protein, protein C, that acts as an anticoagulant by inac- thrombin activator, in turn, initiates the cleavage tivating activated factors V and
