Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the complex called prothrombin activator. The pro- ma protein, protein C, that acts as an anticoagulant by inac- thrombin activator, in turn, initiates the cleavage tivating activated factors V and VIII. of prothrombin to form thrombin within seconds, When the endothelial wall is damaged, its smoothness thereby setting into motion the final clotting pro- and glycocalyx- thrombomodulin layer are lost, which cess, as described earlier. activates both factor XII and the platelets, thus setting off Role of Calcium Ions in the Intrinsic and the intrinsic pathway of clotting. If factor XII and platelets Extrinsic Pathways come into contact with the subendothelial collagen, the activation is even more powerful. Except for the first two steps in the intrinsic pathway, cal- Intact endothelial cells also produce other substances cium ions are required for promotion or acceleration of such a prostacyclin and nitric oxide (NO) that inhibit all the blood-c lotting reactions. Therefore, in the absence platelet aggregation and initiation of blood clotting. Pros- of calcium ions, blood clotting by either pathway does not tacyclin, also called prostaglandin I (PGI ), is a member 2 2 occur. of the eicosanoid family of lipids and is a vasodilator, as In the living body, the calcium ion concentration well as an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. As discussed seldom falls low enough to affect blood- clotting kinet- in Chapter 17, NO is a powerful vasodilator released from ics significantly. However, when blood is removed from healthy vascular endothelial cells throughout the body, someone, it can be prevented from clotting by reducing and it is an important inhibitor of platelet aggregation. the calcium ion concentration below the threshold level When endothelial cells are damaged, their production of for clotting by deionizing the calcium by causing it to prostacyclin and NO is greatly diminished. react with substances such as citrate ion or by precipitat- ing the calcium with substances such as oxalate ion. Antithrombin Action of Fibrin and Antithrombin III. Among the most important anticoagulants in the blood Interaction Between Extrinsic and are those that remove thrombin from the blood. The most Intrinsic Pathways—Summary of Blood- powerful of these are the following: (1) the fibrin fibers Clotting Initiation that are formed during the process of clotting; and (2) It is clear from the schemas of the intrinsic and extrinsic an α globulin called antithrombin III or antithrombin- systems that after blood vessels rupture, clotting occurs heparin cofactor. by
