Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


It is clear from the schemas of the intrinsic and extrinsic an α globulin called antithrombin III or antithrombin- systems that after blood vessels rupture, clotting occurs heparin cofactor. by both pathways simultaneously. Tissue factor initiates While a clot is forming, about 85% to 90% of the throm- the extrinsic pathway, whereas contact of factor XII and bin formed from the prothrombin becomes adsorbed to platelets with collagen in the vascular wall initiates the the fibrin fibers as they develop. This adsorption helps intrinsic pathway. prevent the spread of thrombin into the remaining blood An especially important difference between the and, therefore, prevents excessive spread of the clot. extrinsic and intrinsic pathways is that the extrin- The thrombin that does not adsorb to the fibrin sic pathway can be explosive; once initiated, its speed fibers soon combines with antithrombin III. This further of completion to the final clot is limited only by the blocks the effect of thrombin on the fibrinogen and then amount of tissue factor released from the traumatized also inactivates thrombin itself during the next 12 to 20 tissues and by the quantities of factors X, VII, and V in minutes. 483 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation Heparin. Heparin is another powerful anticoagulant but, converts plasminogen to plasmin, which in turn removes because its concentration in the blood is normally low, the remaining unnecessary blood clot. In fact, many small it has significant anticoagulant effects only under special blood vessels in which blood flow has been blocked by physiological conditions. However, heparin is used widely clots are reopened by this mechanism. Thus, an especially as a pharmacological agent in medical practice in much important function of the plasmin system is to remove higher concentrations to prevent intravascular clotting. minute clots from millions of tiny peripheral vessels that The heparin molecule is a highly negatively charged eventually would become occluded were there no way to conjugated polysaccharide. By itself, it has little or no clear them. anticoagulant properties, but when it combines with antithrombin III, the effectiveness of antithrombin III CONDITIONS THAT CAUSE EXCESSIVE for removing thrombin increases by a hundredfold to a BLEEDING IN HUMANS thousandfold and thus acts as an anticoagulant. There- fore, in the presence of excess heparin, the removal of free Excessive bleeding can result from a deficiency of any of thrombin from the circulating blood by antithrombin III
