Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


There- fore, in the presence of excess heparin, the removal of free Excessive bleeding can result from a deficiency of any of thrombin from the circulating blood by antithrombin III the many blood- clotting factors. Three particular types of is almost instantaneous. bleeding tendencies that have been studied to the greatest The complex of heparin and antithrombin III removes extent are discussed here—bleeding caused by (1) vitamin several other activated coagulation factors in addition to K deficiency, (2) hemophilia, and (3) thrombocytopenia thrombin, further enhancing the effectiveness of antico- (platelet deficiency). agulation. The others include activated factors IX through XII. DECREASED PROTHROMBIN, FACTOR VII, Heparin is produced by many different cells of the FACTOR IX, AND FACTOR X CAUSED BY body, but the largest quantities are formed by the baso- VITAMIN K DEFICIENCY philic mast cells located in the pericapillary connec- With few exceptions, almost all the blood-c lotting fac- tive tissue throughout the body. These cells continually tors are formed by the liver. Therefore, diseases of the secrete small quantities of heparin that diffuse into the liver such as hepatitis, cirrhosis, and acute yellow atrophy circulatory system. The basophil cells of the blood, which (degeneration of the liver caused by toxins, infections, or are functionally almost identical to the mast cells, release other agents) can sometimes depress the clotting system small quantities of heparin into the plasma. so much that the patient develops a severe tendency to Mast cells are abundant in tissue surrounding the cap- bleed. illaries of the lungs and, to a lesser extent, capillaries of the Another cause of depressed formation of clotting liver. It is easy to understand why large quantities of hepa- factors by the liver is vitamin K deficiency. Vitamin K rin might be needed in these areas because the capillaries is an essential factor to a liver carboxylase that adds a of the lungs and liver receive many embolic clots that have carboxyl group to glutamic acid residues on five of the formed in slowly flowing venous blood; sufficient produc- important clotting factors—prothrombin, factor VII, fac- tion of heparin prevents further growth of the clots. tor IX, factor X, and protein C. On adding the carboxyl PLASMIN CAUSES LYSIS OF BLOOD CLOTS group to glutamic acid residues on the immature clot- ting factors, vitamin K is oxidized and becomes inactive. The plasma proteins contain a euglobulin called plas- Another enzyme, vitamin K
