Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


group to glutamic acid residues on the immature clot- ting factors, vitamin K is oxidized and becomes inactive. The plasma proteins contain a euglobulin called plas- Another enzyme, vitamin K epoxide reductase complex 1 minogen (profibrinolysin) that when activated, becomes a (VKORC1), reduces vitamin K back to its active form. In substance called plasmin (fibrinolysin). Plasmin is a pro- the absence of active vitamin K, subsequent insufficiency teolytic enzyme that resembles trypsin, the most impor- of these coagulation factors in the blood can lead to seri- tant proteolytic digestive enzyme of pancreatic secretion. ous bleeding tendencies. Plasmin digests fibrin fibers and some other protein Vitamin K is continually synthesized in the intestinal coagulants, such as fibrinogen, factor V, factor VIII, pro- tract by bacteria, so vitamin K deficiency seldom occurs thrombin, and factor XII. Therefore, whenever plasmin in healthy persons as a result of the absence of vitamin K is formed, it can cause lysis of a clot by destroying many from the diet (except in neonates, before they establish of the clotting factors, thereby sometimes even causing their intestinal bacterial flora). However, in persons with hypocoagulability of the blood. gastrointestinal disease, vitamin K deficiency often occurs Activation of Plasminogen to Form Plasmin, Then as a result of poor absorption of fats from the gastrointes- Clot Lysis. When a clot is formed, a large amount of plas- tinal tract because vitamin K is fat- soluble and is ordinar- minogen is trapped in the clot, along with other plasma ily absorbed into the blood along with the fats. proteins. This will not become plasmin or cause lysis of One of the most prevalent causes of vitamin K defi- the clot until it is activated. The injured tissues and vascu- ciency is failure of the liver to secrete bile into the gas- lar endothelium very slowly release a powerful activator trointestinal tract, which occurs as a result of obstruction called tissue plasminogen activator (t- PA); a few days later, of the bile ducts or of liver disease. Lack of bile prevents after the clot has stopped the bleeding, t- PA eventually adequate fat digestion and absorption and, therefore, 484 Chapter 37 Hemostasis and Blood Coagulation depresses vitamin K absorption as well. Thus, liver dis- disease with somewhat different characteristics, called ease often causes decreased production of prothrombin von Willebrand disease, results from loss of the large and some other clotting factors because
