Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


liver dis- disease with somewhat different characteristics, called ease often causes decreased production of prothrombin von Willebrand disease, results from loss of the large and some other clotting factors because of poor vitamin component. K absorption and because of the diseased liver cells. As When a person with classic hemophilia experiences a result, vitamin K is injected into surgical patients with severe prolonged bleeding, almost the only therapy that is liver disease or with obstructed bile ducts before the truly effective is injection of purified factor VIII or factor surgical procedure is performed. Ordinarily, if vitamin IX. Both these clotting factors are now available as recom- K is given to a deficient patient 4 to 8 hours before the binant proteins, although they are expensive and their operation and the liver parenchymal cells are at least half- half- lives are relatively short; therefore, these products are normal in function, sufficient clotting factors will be pro- not readily available for many patients with hemophilia, duced to prevent excessive bleeding during the operation. especially in economically disadvantaged countries. HEMOPHILIA THROMBOCYTOPENIA Hemophilia is a bleeding disease that occurs almost Thrombocytopenia means the presence of very low num- exclusively in males. In 85% of cases, it is caused by an bers of platelets in the circulating blood. People with abnormality or deficiency of factor VIII; this type of hemo- thrombocytopenia have a tendency to bleed, as do hemo- philia is called hemophilia A or classic hemophilia. About philiacs, except that the bleeding is usually from many 1 of every 10,000 males in the United States has classic small venules or capillaries, rather than from larger ves- hemophilia. In the other 15% of patients with hemophilia sels, as in hemophilia. As a result, small punctate hem- B, the bleeding tendency is caused by deficiency of factor orrhages occur throughout all the body tissues. The skin IX. Both these factors are transmitted genetically by way of such a person displays many small petechiae, red or of the female (X) chromosome and are recessive in their purplish blotches, giving the disease the name throm- inheritance. Therefore, a woman will rarely have hemo- bocytopenic purpura. As noted, platelets are especially philia because at least one of her two X chromosomes will important for the repair of minute breaks in capillaries have the appropriate genes. If one of her X chromosomes and other small vessels. is deficient, she will
