Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


X chromosomes will important for the repair of minute breaks in capillaries have the appropriate genes. If one of her X chromosomes and other small vessels. is deficient, she will be a hemophilia carrier; her male off- Platelet counts below 30,000/μl, compared with the spring will have a 50% chance of inheriting the illness, and normal value of 150,000 to 450,000/μl, increase the risk her female offspring will have a 50% chance of inheriting for excessive bleeding after surgery or injury. Spontane- the carrier status. ous bleeding, however, will not ordinarily occur until the Although female carriers have one normal allele and number of platelets in the blood falls below 30,000/μl. usually do not develop symptomatic hemophilia, some Levels as low as 10,000/μl are frequently lethal. may experience a mild bleeding trait. It is also possible Even without determining specific platelet counts in for female carriers to develop mild hemophilia due to the blood, sometimes one can suspect the existence of loss of part or all of the normal X chromosome (as in thrombocytopenia if the person’s blood clot fails to retract. Turner syndrome) or inactivation (lyonization) of the As noted earlier, clot retraction is normally dependent X- chromosomes. For a female to inherit full- blown on release of multiple coagulation factors from the large symptomatic hemophilia A or B, she must receive two numbers of platelets entrapped in the fibrin mesh of the deficient X- chromosomes, one from her carrier mother clot. and the other from her father, who must have hemophilia. The major causes of thrombocytopenia include the Most cases of hemophilia are inherited, but approxi- following: (1) decreased platelet production in the bone mately one-third of hemophilia patients do not have a marrow due to infections or sepsis, nutrient deficiencies, family history of the disease, which appears to be caused or myelodysplastic disorders, which usually also reduce by novel mutation events. production of other cells (red blood cells [RBCs] and The bleeding trait in hemophilia can have various white blood cells); (2) peripheral platelet destruction by degrees of severity, depending on the genetic deficiency. antibodies; (3) sequestration (pooling) of platelets in the Bleeding usually does not occur except after trauma, but spleen, especially in individuals with portal hypertension in some patients, the degree of trauma required to cause and excessively large spleens (splenomegaly); (4) con- severe and prolonged bleeding may be so mild that it is sumption
