Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


hypertension in some patients, the degree of trauma required to cause and excessively large spleens (splenomegaly); (4) con- severe and prolonged bleeding may be so mild that it is sumption of platelets in thrombi; and (4) dilution of the hardly noticeable. For example, bleeding can often last for blood from fluid resuscitation or massive transfusion. days after extraction of a tooth. Most people with thrombocytopenia have the disease Factor VIII has two active components, a large compo- known as idiopathic thrombocytopenia, which means nent with a molecular weight in the millions and a smaller thrombocytopenia of unknown cause. In most of these component with a molecular weight of about 230,000. people, it has been discovered that, for unknown reasons, The smaller component is most important in the intrinsic specific antibodies have formed and react against the plate- pathway for clotting, and it is deficiency of this part of fac- lets to destroy them. Relief from bleeding for 1 to 4 days tor VIII that causes classic hemophilia. Another bleeding can often be effected in a patient with thrombocytopenia 485 UNIT VI UNIT VI Blood Cells, Immunity, and Blood Coagulation by giving fresh whole blood transfusions that contain large artery is blocked, death may not occur, or the embolism numbers of platelets. Also, splenectomy may be helpful, may lead to death a few hours to several days later because sometimes resulting in an almost complete cure because of further growth of the clot in the pulmonary vessels. the spleen normally removes large numbers of platelets However, again, t- PA therapy can be a lifesaver. from the blood. DISSEMINATED INTRAVASCULAR COAGULATION THROMBOEMBOLIC CONDITIONS Occasionally, the clotting mechanism becomes activated Thrombi and Emboli. An abnormal clot that develops in widespread areas of the circulation, giving rise to the in a blood vessel is called a thrombus. Once a clot has de- condition called disseminated intravascular coagulation veloped, continued flow of blood past the clot is likely to (DIC). This condition often results from the presence break it away from its attachment and cause the clot to of large amounts of traumatized or dying tissue in the flow with the blood; such freely flowing clots are known body that releases great quantities of tissue factor into as emboli. Also, emboli that originate in large arteries or the blood. Frequently, the clots are small but numerous, in the left side of the heart can flow
