Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


factor into as emboli. Also, emboli that originate in large arteries or the blood. Frequently, the clots are small but numerous, in the left side of the heart can flow peripherally and plug and they plug a large share of the small peripheral blood arteries or arterioles in the brain, kidneys, or elsewhere. vessels. This process occurs especially in patients with Emboli that originate in the venous system or in the right widespread septicemia, in which circulating bacteria or side of the heart generally flow into the lungs to cause pul- bacterial toxins—especially endotoxins—activate the clot- monary arterial embolism. ting mechanisms. The plugging of small peripheral vessels greatly diminishes delivery of oxygen and other nutrients Causes of Thromboembolic Conditions. The causes of to the tissues, a situation that leads to or exacerbates cir- thromboembolic conditions in people are usually twofold: culatory shock. It is partly for this reason that septicemic (1) a roughened endothelial surface of a vessel—as may be shock is lethal in 35% to 50% of patients. caused by arteriosclerosis, infection, or trauma—is likely A peculiar effect of disseminated intravascular coagu- to initiate the clotting process; and (2) blood often clots lation is that the patient, on occasion, begins to bleed. The when it flows very slowly through blood vessels, where reason for this bleeding is that so many of the clotting fac- small quantities of thrombin and other procoagulants are tors are removed by the widespread clotting that too few always being formed. procoagulants remain to allow normal hemostasis of the Use of Tissue Plasminogen Activator in Treating In- remaining blood. travascular Clots. Genetically engineered tissue plas- minogen activator (t- PA) is available. When delivered ANTICOAGULANTS FOR CLINICAL USE through a catheter to an area with a thrombus, it is effec- In some thromboembolic conditions, it is desirable to tive in activating plasminogen to plasmin, which in turn delay the coagulation process. Various anticoagulants can dissolve some intravascular clots. For example, if used have been developed for this purpose. The ones most within the 1 or 2 hours after thrombotic occlusion of a clinically useful are heparin and the coumarins. coronary artery, the heart is often spared serious damage. HEPARIN—INTRAVENOUS ANTICOAGULANT FEMORAL VENOUS THROMBOSIS AND MASSIVE PULMONARY EMBOLISM Commercial heparin is extracted from several differ- ent animal tissues and prepared in almost pure form. Because clotting almost always occurs when blood flow Injection of relatively small quantities,
