Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


EMBOLISM Commercial heparin is extracted from several differ- ent animal tissues and prepared in almost pure form. Because clotting almost always occurs when blood flow Injection of relatively small quantities, about 0.5 to 1 is blocked for many hours in any vessel of the body, the mg/kg of body weight, causes the blood- clotting time immobility of patients confined to bed, plus the practice to increase from a normal of about 6 minutes to 30 or of propping the knees up with pillows, often causes intra- more minutes. Furthermore, this change in clotting time vascular clotting because of blood stasis in one or more occurs instantaneously, thereby immediately preventing of the leg veins for hours at a time. Then the clot grows, or slowing further development of a thromboembolic mainly in the direction of the slowly moving venous condition. blood, sometimes growing the entire length of the leg The action of heparin lasts about 1.5 to 4 hours. The veins and occasionally even up into the common iliac vein injected heparin is destroyed by an enzyme in the blood and inferior vena cava. About 10% of the time, a large part known as heparinase. of the clot disengages from its attachments to the vessel wall and flows freely with the venous blood through the COUMARINS AS ANTICOAGULANTS right side of the heart and into the pulmonary arteries to cause massive blockage of the pulmonary arteries; this is When a coumarin, such as warfarin, is given to a patient, called a massive pulmonary embolism. If the clot is large the amounts of active prothrombin and factors VII, IX, enough to occlude both pulmonary arteries at the same and X, all formed by the liver, begin to fall. Warfarin time, immediate death ensues. If only one pulmonary causes this effect by inhibiting the enzyme VKORC1. As 486 Chapter 37 Hemostasis and Blood Coagulation discussed previously, this enzyme converts the inactive, polymerized into glucose or metabolized directly for oxidized form of vitamin K to its active, reduced form. energy. Consequently, 500 milliliters of blood that has By inhibiting VKORC1, warfarin decreases the avail- been rendered noncoagulable by citrate can ordinarily be able active form of vitamin K in the tissues. When this transfused into a recipient within a few minutes, without decrease occurs, the coagulation factors are no longer car- dire consequences. However, if the liver is damaged, or boxylated and are biologically
