Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


into a recipient within a few minutes, without decrease occurs, the coagulation factors are no longer car- dire consequences. However, if the liver is damaged, or boxylated and are biologically inactive. Over several days, if large quantities of citrated blood or plasma are given the body stores of the active coagulation factors degrade too rapidly (within fractions of a minute), the citrate ion and are replaced by inactive factors. Although the coagu- may not be removed quickly enough, and the citrate can, lation factors continue to be produced, they have greatly under these conditions, greatly depress the level of cal- decreased coagulant activity. cium ion in the blood, which can result in tetany and con- After administration of an effective dose of warfarin, vulsive death. the coagulant activity of the blood decreases to about 50% of normal by the end of 12 hours and to about 20% of BLOOD COAGULATION TESTS normal by the end of 24 hours. In other words, the coagu- lation process is not blocked immediately but must await BLEEDING TIME the degradation of the active prothrombin and the other affected coagulation factors already present in the plasma. When a sharp- pointed knife is used to pierce the tip of the Normal coagulation usually returns 1 to 3 days after dis- finger or earlobe, bleeding ordinarily lasts for 1 to 6 min- continuing coumarin therapy. utes. This time depends largely on the depth of the wound and degree of hyperemia in the finger or earlobe at the PREVENTION OF BLOOD COAGULATION time of the test. Lack of any one of several of the clotting OUTSIDE THE BODY factors can prolong the bleeding time, but it is especially prolonged by lack of platelets. Although blood removed from the body and held in a glass test tube normally clots in about 6 minutes, blood CLOTTING TIME collected in siliconized containers often does not clot for Many methods have been devised for determining blood- 1 hour or more. The reason for this delay is that preparing clotting time. The one most widely used is to collect the surfaces of the containers with silicone prevents con- blood in a chemically clean glass test tube and then to tact activation of platelets and factor XII, the two princi- tip the tube back and forth about every 30 seconds until pal factors that initiate the intrinsic clotting mechanism. the blood has clotted. By
