Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and factor XII, the two princi- tip the tube back and forth about every 30 seconds until pal factors that initiate the intrinsic clotting mechanism. the blood has clotted. By this method, the normal clot- Conversely, untreated glass containers allow contact acti- ting time is 6 to 10 minutes. Procedures using multiple vation of the platelets and factor XII, with the rapid devel- test tubes have also been devised for determining clotting opment of clots. time more accurately. Heparin can be used for preventing coagulation of Unfortunately, the clotting time varies widely, depend- blood outside the body, as well as in the body. Heparin is ing on the method used for measuring it, so it is no lon- especially used in surgical procedures in which the blood ger used in many clinics. Instead, measurements of the must be passed through a heart-l ung machine or artificial clotting factors themselves are made, using sophisticated kidney machine and then back into the patient. chemical procedures. Various substances that decrease the concentration of calcium ions in the blood can also be used for preventing PROTHROMBIN TIME AND blood coagulation outside the body. For example, a solu- INTERNATIONAL NORMALIZED RATIO ble oxalate compound mixed in a very small quantity with a sample of blood causes precipitation of calcium oxalate The prothrombin time indicates the concentration of from the plasma and thereby decreases the ionic calcium prothrombin in the blood. Figure 37- 7 shows the rela- level so much that blood coagulation is blocked. tionship of prothrombin concentration to prothrombin Any substance that deionizes the blood calcium will time. The method for determining prothrombin time is prevent coagulation. The negatively charged citrate ion is the following. especially valuable for this purpose; it is mixed with blood Blood removed from the patient is immediately oxa- usually in the form of sodium, ammonium, or potassium lated so that none of the prothrombin can change into citrate. The citrate ion combines with calcium in the thrombin. Then, a large excess of calcium ion and tis- blood to produce a nonionized calcium compound, and sue factor is quickly mixed with the oxalated blood. The the lack of ionic calcium prevents coagulation. Citrate excess calcium nullifies the effect of the oxalate, and the anticoagulants have an important advantage over the oxa- tissue factor activates the prothrombin to thrombin reac- late anticoagulants because oxalate is toxic to the body, tion by
