Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


concepts and clinical perspectives. Nat Rev Cardiol 16:166, 2019. 1.3. A high INR level (e.g., 4 or 5) indicates a high risk of Wells PS, Forgie MA, Rodger MA: Treatment of venous thromboem- bleeding, whereas a low INR (e.g., 0.5) suggests that there bolism. JAMA 311:717, 2014. is a chance of having a clot. Patients undergoing warfarin Weyand AC, Pipe SW: New therapies for hemophilia. Blood 133:389, therapy usually have an INR of 2.0 to 3.0. 2019. 488 )lamron fo tnecrep( noitartnecnoC CHAPTER 3 8 Pulmonary Ventilation The main functions of respiration are to provide oxygen allowing the sternum to fall backward toward the verte- to the tissues and remove carbon dioxide. The four major bral column. When the rib cage is elevated, however, the components of respiration are the following: (1) pulmo- ribs project almost directly forward, so the sternum also nary ventilation, which means the inflow and outflow of moves forward, away from the spine, making the antero- air between the atmosphere and the lung alveoli; (2) dif- posterior thickness of the chest about 20% greater during fusion of oxygen (O ) and carbon dioxide (CO ) between maximum inspiration than during expiration. Therefore, 2 2 the alveoli and the blood; (3) transport of oxygen and car- all the muscles that elevate the chest cage are classified as bon dioxide in the blood and body fluids to and from the muscles of inspiration, and the muscles that depress the body’s tissue cells; and (4) regulation of ventilation and chest cage are classified as muscles of expiration. other facets of respiration. This chapter is a discussion of The most important muscles that raise the rib cage are pulmonary ventilation; the subsequent five chapters cover the external intercostals, but others that help are the fol- other respiratory functions plus the physiology of special lowing: (1) sternocleidomastoid muscles, which lift upward respiratory abnormalities. on the sternum; (2) anterior serrati, which lift many of the ribs; and (3) scaleni, which lift the first two ribs. MECHANICS OF PULMONARY The muscles that pull the rib cage downward during VENTILATION expiration are mainly the following: (1) the abdominal recti, which have the powerful effect of pulling downward on the lower ribs at the same time that they and other MUSCLES THAT CAUSE LUNG EXPANSION abdominal muscles also compress the abdominal con- AND CONTRACTION tents upward against the diaphragm; and (2) the internal The lungs
