Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


time that they and other MUSCLES THAT CAUSE LUNG EXPANSION abdominal muscles also compress the abdominal con- AND CONTRACTION tents upward against the diaphragm; and (2) the internal The lungs can be expanded and contracted in two ways: intercostals. (1) by downward or upward movement of the diaphragm Figure 38- 1 also shows the mechanism whereby the to lengthen or shorten the chest cavity; and (2) by eleva- external and internal intercostals act to cause inspiration tion or depression of the ribs to increase or decrease the and expiration. To the left, the ribs during expiration are anteroposterior diameter of the chest cavity. Figure 38- 1 angled downward, and the external intercostals are elon- shows these two methods. gated forward and downward. As they contract, they pull Normal quiet breathing is accomplished almost the upper ribs forward in relation to the lower ribs, which entirely by movement of the diaphragm. During inspi- causes leverage on the ribs to raise them upward, thereby ration, contraction of the diaphragm pulls the lower causing inspiration. The internal intercostals function in surfaces of the lungs downward. Then, during expi- the opposite manner, functioning as expiratory muscles ration, the diaphragm simply relaxes, and the elastic because they angle between the ribs in the opposite direc- recoil of the lungs, chest wall, and abdominal structures tion and cause opposite leverage. compresses the lungs and expels the air. During heavy PRESSURES THAT CAUSE MOVEMENT OF breathing, however, the elastic forces are not powerful AIR IN AND OUT OF THE LUNGS enough to cause the necessary rapid expiration, so extra force is achieved mainly by contraction of the abdominal See Video 38-1. The lung is an elastic structure that col- muscles, which pushes the abdominal contents upward lapses like a balloon and expels all its air through the tra- against the bottom of the diaphragm, thereby compress- chea whenever there is no force to keep it inflated. Also, ing the lungs. there are no attachments between the lung and walls of The second method for expanding the lungs is to the chest cage, except where it is suspended at its hilum raise the rib cage. Raising the rib cage expands the lungs from the mediastinum, the middle section of the chest because, in the natural resting position, the ribs slant cavity. Instead, the lung “floats” in the thoracic cavity, downward, as shown on the left side of Figure
