Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the chest because, in the natural resting position, the ribs slant cavity. Instead, the lung “floats” in the thoracic cavity, downward, as shown on the left side of Figure 38- 1, thus surrounded by a thin layer of pleural fluid that lubricates 491 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration EXPIRATION INSPIRATION Increased vertical diameter Elevated Increased rib cage AP diameter External intercostals contracted Internal Diaphragmatic intercostals contraction relaxed Figure 38- 1 Contraction and expan- sion of the thoracic cage during expi- Abdominals ration and inspiration, demonstrating contracted diaphragmatic contraction, function of the intercostal muscles, and elevation and depression of the rib cage. AP, An- teroposterior. movement of the lungs within the cavity. Furthermore, Lung volume 0.50 continual suction of excess fluid into lymphatic channels maintains a slight suction between the visceral surface of the lung pleura and the parietal pleural surface of the tho- 0.25 racic cavity. Therefore, the lungs are held to the thoracic wall as if glued there, except that they are well lubricated 0 and can slide freely as the chest expands and contracts. Pleural Pressure and Its Changes During Respira- +2 Alveolar pressure tion. Pleural pressure is the pressure of the fluid in the thin space between the lung pleura and chest wall pleura. 0 This pressure is normally a slight suction, which means a slightly negative pressure. The normal pleural pressure –2 at the beginning of inspiration is about −5 centimeters of Transpulmonary pressure water (cm H O), which is the amount of suction required –4 2 to hold the lungs open to their resting level. During nor- –6 mal inspiration, expansion of the chest cage pulls outward on the lungs with greater force and creates more negative Pleural pressure –8 pressure to an average of about −7.5 cm H O. 2 These relationships between pleural pressure and Inspiration Expiration changing lung volume are demonstrated in Figure 38- 2; in the lower panel shows the increasing negativity of the Figure 38- 2 Changes in lung volume, alveolar pressure, pleural pres- pleural pressure from −5 to −7.5 cm H O during inspira- sure, and transpulmonary pressure during normal breathing. 2 tion and in the upper panel an increase in lung volume of 0.5 liter. Then, during expiration, the events are essentially es to about −1 cm H O. This slight negative pressure is 2 reversed. enough to pull 0.5 liter of air into the lungs in
