Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


expiration, the events are essentially es to about −1 cm H O. This slight negative pressure is 2 reversed. enough to pull 0.5 liter of air into the lungs in the 2 sec- onds required for normal quiet inspiration. Alveolar Pressure—Air Pressure Inside the Lung Al- During expiration, alveolar pressure rises to about +1 veoli. When the glottis is open and no air is flowing into cm H O, which forces the 0.5 liter of inspired air out of or out of the lungs, the pressures in all parts of the respira- 2 the lungs during the 2 to 3 seconds of expiration. tory tree, all the way to the alveoli, are equal to atmos- pheric pressure, which is considered to be zero reference Transpulmonary Pressure—Difference between Al- pressure in the airways—that is, 0 cm H O pressure. To veolar and Pleural Pressures. Note in Figure 38- 2 that 2 cause inward flow of air into the alveoli during inspira- the transpulmonary pressure is the pressure difference be- tion, the pressure in the alveoli must fall to a value slightly tween that in the alveoli and that on the outer surfaces of below atmospheric pressure (below 0). The second curve the lungs (pleural pressure); it is a measure of the elastic (labeled “alveolar pressure”) of Figure 38- 2 demonstrates forces in the lungs that tend to collapse the lungs at each that during normal inspiration, alveolar pressure decreas- instant of respiration, called the recoil pressure. 492 )sretil( egnahc emuloV )O H mc( erusserP 2 Chapter 38 Pulmonary Ventilation Saline-filled Air-filled 0.50 0.50 Expiration Expiration 0.25 0.25 Inspiration Inspiration 0 0 –2 –4 –6 –8 0 Pleural pressure (cm H O) 2 –4 –5 –6 Figure 38- 4 Comparison of the compliance diagrams of saline-fi lled Pleural pressure (cm H O) 2 and air-fi lled lungs when the alveolar pressure is maintained at at- Figure 38-3 Compliance diagram in a healthy person. This diagram mospheric pressure (0 cm H O) and pleural pressure is changed to 2 shows changes in lung volume during changes in transpulmonary change the transpulmonary pressure. pressure (alveolar pressure minus pleural pressure). Compliance of the Lungs diagram of the lungs when filled with saline solution and when filled with air. When the lungs are filled with air, The extent to which the lungs will expand for each unit there is an interface between the alveolar fluid and
