Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


filled with air. When the lungs are filled with air, The extent to which the lungs will expand for each unit there is an interface between the alveolar fluid and the air increase in transpulmonary pressure (if enough time is in the alveoli. In lungs filled with saline solution, there is allowed to reach equilibrium) is called the lung compli- no air- fluid interface and, therefore, the surface tension ance. The total compliance of both lungs together in the effect is not present; only tissue elastic forces are opera- normal adult averages about 200 ml of air/cm H O trans- 2 tive in the lung filled with saline solution. pulmonary pressure. That is, every time the transpulmo- Note that transpleural pressures required to expand nary pressure increases by 1 cm H O, the lung volume, 2 air- filled lungs are about three times as great as those after 10 to 20 seconds, will expand 200 ml. required to expand lungs filled with saline solution. Thus, one can conclude that the tissue elastic forces tending to Compliance Diagram of the Lungs. Figure 38-3 is a di- cause collapse of the air- filled lung represent only about agram relating lung volume changes to changes in pleural one-third of the total lung elasticity, whereas the fluid- air pressure, which, in turn, alters transpulmonary pressure. surface tension forces in the alveoli represent about two- Note that the relationship is different for inspiration and thirds. expiration. Each curve is recorded by changing the pleu- The fluid- air surface tension elastic forces of the lungs ral pressure in small steps and allowing the lung volume also increase tremendously when the substance called to come to a steady level between successive steps. The surfactant is not present in the alveolar fluid. two curves are called, respectively, the inspiratory com- pliance curve and the expiratory compliance curve, and Surfactant, Surface Tension, and Collapse the entire diagram is called the compliance diagram of the of the Alveoli lungs. Principle of Surface Tension. When water forms a sur- The characteristics of the compliance diagram are face with air, the water molecules on the surface of the determined by the elastic forces of the lungs. These forces water have an especially strong attraction for one anoth- can be divided into two parts: (1) elastic forces of the lung er. As a result, the water surface is always attempting to tissue; and
