Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


strong attraction for one anoth- can be divided into two parts: (1) elastic forces of the lung er. As a result, the water surface is always attempting to tissue; and (2) elastic forces caused by surface tension of contract. This is what holds raindrops together—a tight the fluid that lines the inside walls of the alveoli and other contractile membrane of water molecules around the lung air spaces. entire surface of the raindrop. Now, let us reverse these The elastic forces of the lung tissue are determined principles and see what happens on the inner surfaces of mainly by elastin and collagen fibers interwoven among the alveoli. Here, the water surface is also attempting to the lung parenchyma. In deflated lungs, these fibers contract. This tends to force air out of the alveoli through are in an elastically contracted and kinked state; then, the bronchi and, in doing so, causes the alveoli to try to when the lungs expand, the fibers become stretched and collapse. The net effect is to cause an elastic contractile unkinked, thereby elongating and exerting even more force of the entire lungs, which is called the surface ten- elastic force. sion elastic force. The elastic forces caused by surface tension are much more complex. The significance of surface tension is Surfactant and Its Effect on Surface Tension. Sur- shown in Figure 38- 4, which compares the compliance factant is a surface- active agent in water, which means 493 )sretil( egnahc emulov gnuL )sretil( egnahc emulov gnuL UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration that it greatly reduces the surface tension of water. It is is fatal if not treated with strong measures, especially prop- secreted by special surfactant- secreting epithelial cells erly applied continuous positive pressure breathing. called type II alveolar epithelial cells, which constitute EFFECT OF THE THORACIC CAGE ON about 10% of the surface area of the alveoli. These cells are LUNG EXPANSIBILITY granular, containing lipid inclusions that are secreted in the surfactant into the alveoli. Thus far, we have discussed the expansibility of the lungs Surfactant is a complex mixture of several phospholip- alone, without considering the thoracic cage. The tho- ids, proteins, and ions. The most important components racic cage has its own elastic and viscous characteristics are the phospholipid dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine, and, even if the lungs were not present in the thorax, surfactant apoproteins, and calcium ions. The dipalmitoyl muscular effort would still
