Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and viscous characteristics are the phospholipid dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine, and, even if the lungs were not present in the thorax, surfactant apoproteins, and calcium ions. The dipalmitoyl muscular effort would still be required to expand the phosphatidylcholine and several less important phospho- thoracic cage. lipids are responsible for reducing the surface tension. They perform this function by not dissolving uniformly Compliance of Thorax and Lungs in the fluid lining the alveolar surface. Instead, part of Together the molecule dissolves while the remainder spreads over The compliance of the entire pulmonary system (the the surface of the water in the alveoli. This surface has lungs and thoracic cage together) is measured while from one- twelfth to one- half the surface tension of a pure expanding the lungs of a totally relaxed or paralyzed water surface. subject. To measure compliance, air is forced into the Quantitatively, the surface tension of different water lungs a little at a time while recording lung pressures and fluids is approximately the following: pure water, 72 volumes. To inflate this total pulmonary system, almost dynes/cm; normal fluids lining the alveoli but without twice as much pressure is required compared with the surfactant, 50 dynes/cm; normal fluids lining the alveoli same lungs after removal from the chest cage. Therefore, and with normal amounts of surfactant included, between the compliance of the combined lung- thorax system is 5 and 30 dynes/cm. almost exactly half that of the lungs alone—110 ml/cm H O pressure for the combined system, compared with Pressure in Occluded Alveoli Caused by Surface Ten- 2 sion. If the air passages leading from the alveoli of the lungs 200 ml/cm H 2O for the lungs alone. Furthermore, when the lungs are expanded to high volumes or compressed are blocked, the surface tension in the alveoli tends to col- to low volumes, the limitations of the chest become lapse the alveoli. This collapse creates positive pressure in the alveoli, attempting to push the air out. The amount of extreme. When near these limits, the compliance of the pressure generated in this way in an alveolus can be calcu- combined lung- thorax system can be less than 20% of lated from the following formula: that of the lungs alone. 2×Surfacetension Pressure = Work of Breathing Radiusofalveolus For the average- sized alveolus with a radius of about We have already pointed out that during normal quiet 100 micrometers and lined with
