Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Pressure = Work of Breathing Radiusofalveolus For the average- sized alveolus with a radius of about We have already pointed out that during normal quiet 100 micrometers and lined with normal surfactant, this breathing, all respiratory muscle contraction occurs during calculates to be about 4 cm H O pressure (3 mm Hg). If the inspiration; expiration is almost entirely a passive process 2 alveoli were lined with pure water without any surfactant, caused by elastic recoil of the lungs and chest cage. Thus, the pressure would be calculated as about 18 cm H O pres- under resting conditions, the respiratory muscles normally 2 sure—4.5 times as great. Thus, one sees the importance of perform “work” to cause inspiration but not to cause expi- surfactant in reducing alveolar surface tension and there- ration. fore also reducing the effort required by the respiratory The work of inspiration can be divided into three frac- muscles to expand the lungs. tions: (1) that required to expand the lungs against the Pressure Caused by Surface Tension Is Inversely Related lung and chest elastic forces, called compliance work or to Alveolar Radius. Note from the preceding formula that elastic work; (2) that required to overcome the viscosity of the smaller the alveolus, the greater the alveolar pressure the lung and chest wall structures, called tissue resistance caused by the surface tension. Thus, when the alveoli have work; and (3) that required to overcome airway resistance half the normal radius (50 instead of 100 micrometers), the to movement of air into the lungs, called airway resistance pressures noted earlier are doubled. This phenomenon is work. especially significant in small premature infants, many of Energy Required for Respiration. During normal quiet whom have alveoli with radii less than 25% that of an adult respiration, only 3% to 5% of the total energy expended by person. Furthermore, surfactant does not normally begin the body is required for pulmonary ventilation. However, to be secreted into the alveoli until between the sixth and during heavy exercise, the amount of energy required can seventh months of gestation and, in some cases, even later. increase as much as 50-f old, especially if the person has any Therefore, many premature infants have little or no sur- degree of increased airway resistance or decreased pulmo- factant in the alveoli when they are born, and their lungs nary compliance. Therefore, one of the major limitations have
