Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


no sur- degree of increased airway resistance or decreased pulmo- factant in the alveoli when they are born, and their lungs nary compliance. Therefore, one of the major limitations have an extreme tendency to collapse, sometimes as much on the intensity of exercise that can be performed is the as six to eight times that in a normal adult person. This situ- person’s ability to provide enough muscle energy for the ation causes respiratory distress syndrome of the newborn. It respiratory process alone. 494 Chapter 38 Pulmonary Ventilation PULMONARY VOLUMES AND Table 38- 1 Average Pulmonary Volumes and CAPACITIES Capacities for Healthy, Young Adult Men and Women Pulmonary Volumes and Capacities Men Women RECORDING CHANGES IN PULMONARY Volume (ml) VOLUME—SPIROMETRY Tidal volume 500 400 Pulmonary ventilation can be studied by recording the Inspiratory reserve volume 3000 1900 volume movement of air into and out of the lungs, a Expiratory volume 1100 700 method called spirometry. A typical basic spirometer is Residual volume 1200 1100 shown in Figure 38- 5. It consists of a drum inverted over Capacities (ml) a chamber of water, with the drum counterbalanced by Inspiratory capacity 3500 2400 a weight. In the drum is a breathing gas, usually air or Functional residual capacity 2300 1800 oxygen; a tube connects the mouth with the gas chamber. Vital capacity 4600 3100 When the person breathes into and out of the chamber, the drum rises and falls, and an appropriate recording is Total lung capacity 5800 4200 made. Figure 38- 6 shows a spirogram indicating changes in lung volume under different conditions of breathing. For ease in describing the events of pulmonary ventilation, Pulmonary Volumes the air in the lungs has been subdivided in this diagram Figure 38-6 lists four pulmonary lung volumes that when into four volumes and four capacities, which are the aver- added together, equal the maximum volume to which the ages for a young adult man. Table 38- 1 summarizes the lungs can be expanded. The lung volumes shown are for average pulmonary volumes and capacities for healthy average adult males, but lung volumes vary considerably men and women. depending on physical fitness, age, height, sex, and other factors, such as the altitude at which a person resides. The significance of each of these lung volumes is the following: 1. The tidal volume is the volume of air inspired or ex- Floating drum pired with each
