Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


person resides. The significance of each of these lung volumes is the following: 1. The tidal volume is the volume of air inspired or ex- Floating drum pired with each normal breath; it amounts to about 500 ml in the average healthy man. Oxygen Recording 2. The inspiratory reserve volume is the extra volume chamber drum of air that can be inspired over and above the nor- mal tidal volume when the person inspires with full Water Mouthpiece force; it is usually equal to about 3000 ml. Counterbalancing weight 3. The expiratory reserve volume is the maximum extra volume of air that can be expired by forceful expira- tion after the end of a normal tidal expiration; this Figure 38- 5 Spirometer. volume normally amounts to about 1100 ml in men. 4. The residual volume is the volume of air remaining 6000 in the lungs after the most forceful expiration; this volume averages about 1200 ml. 5000 Pulmonary Capacities Inspiratory Inspiratory Vital Total lung reserve capacity capacity capacity In describing events in the pulmonary cycle, it is some- 4000 volume times useful to consider two or more of the volumes together. Such combinations are called pulmonary capac- Tidal 3000 volume ities. To the right in Figure 38- 6 are listed the important pulmonary capacities, which can be described as follows: 1. The inspiratory capacity equals the tidal volume 2000 Expiratory Functional plus the inspiratory reserve volume. This capacity reserve volume residual capacity is the amount of air (≈3500 ml) that a person can 1000 breathe in, beginning at the normal expiratory level Residual volume and distending the lungs to the maximum amount. 2. The functional residual capacity equals the expira- Time tory reserve volume plus the residual volume. This Figure 38- 6 Respiratory excursions during normal breathing and capacity is the amount of air that remains in the during maximal inspiration and maximal expiration. lungs at the end of normal expiration ≈2300 ml). 495 )lm( emulov gnuL UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration 3. The vital capacity equals the inspiratory reserve vol- Table 38- 2 Abbreviations and Symbols for Pulmonary Function ume plus the tidal volume plus the expiratory re- serve volume. This capacity is the maximum amount Abbreviation Function of air a person can expel from the lungs after first V Tidal volume T filling the lungs to their maximum extent and then FRC Functional residual capacity expiring to the
