Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spirometer, Cf is expired air after a single previous inspiration of pure oxygen. This He the final concentration of helium in the spirometer, and record can be used to calculate dead space, as discussed in the text. Vi Spir is the initial volume of the spirometer. DEAD SPACE AND ITS EFFECT ON Once the FRC has been determined, the residual vol- ALVEOLAR VENTILATION ume (RV) can be determined by subtracting expiratory reserve volume (ERV), as measured by normal spirom- Some of the air a person breathes never reaches the gas etry, from the FRC. Also, the total lung capacity (TLC) exchange areas but simply fills respiratory passages, such can be determined by adding the inspiratory capacity (IC) as the nose, pharynx, and trachea, where gas exchange to the FRC. That is: does not occur. This air is called dead space air because it is not useful for gas exchange. RV=FRC−ERV On expiration, the air in the dead space is expired first, and before any of the air from the alveoli reaches the atmo- TLC = FRC + IC sphere. Therefore, the dead space is very disadvantageous for removing the expiratory gases from the lungs. MINUTE RESPIRATORY VOLUME EQUALS Measurement of Dead Space Volume. A simple method RESPIRATORY RATE TIMES TIDAL for measuring dead space volume is demonstrated by the VOLUME graph in Figure 38- 7. In making this measurement, the sub- ject suddenly takes a deep breath of 100% O, which fills the 2 The minute respiratory volume is the total amount of entire dead space with pure O. Some oxygen also mixes with 2 new air moved into the respiratory passages each min- the alveolar air but does not completely replace this air. Then ute and is equal to the tidal volume times the respiratory the person expires through a rapidly recording nitrogen meter, rate per minute. The normal tidal volume is about 500 which makes the record shown in the figure. The first portion ml, and the normal respiratory rate is about 12 breaths/ of the expired air comes from the dead space regions of the min. Therefore, the minute respiratory volume averages respiratory passageways, where the air has been completely re- about 6 L/min. A person can live for a short period with placed by O 2. Therefore, in the early part of the record, only O 2 appears, and the nitrogen concentration is 0. Then, when
