Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


live for a short period with placed by O 2. Therefore, in the early part of the record, only O 2 appears, and the nitrogen concentration is 0. Then, when al- a minute respiratory volume as low as 1.5 L/min and a veolar air begins to reach the nitrogen meter, the nitrogen con- respiratory rate of only 2 to 4 breaths/min. centration rises rapidly because alveolar air containing large The respiratory rate occasionally rises to 40 to 50 amounts of nitrogen begins to mix with the dead space air. breaths/min, and the tidal volume can become as great as After still more air has been expired, all the dead space air has the vital capacity, about 4600 ml in a young man. This can been washed from the passages and only alveolar air remains. give a minute respiratory volume greater than 200 L/min, Therefore, the recorded nitrogen concentration reaches a pla- or more than 30 times normal. Most people cannot sus- teau level equal to its concentration in the alveoli, as shown at tain more than half to two-thirds of these values for longer the right in the figure. The gray area represents the air that has than 1 minute. no nitrogen in it and is a measure of the volume of dead space air. For exact quantification, the following equation is used: ALVEOLAR VENTILATION VD= Grayarea×VE Pinkarea+Grayarea The ultimate importance of pulmonary ventilation is to where V is dead space air and V is the total volume D E renew the air in the gas exchange areas of the lungs con- of expired air. tinually, where air is in proximity to the pulmonary blood. Let us assume, for example, that the gray area on the These areas include the alveoli, alveolar sacs, alveolar graph is 30 square centimeters, the pink area is 70 square ducts, and respiratory bronchioles. The rate at which new centimeters, and the total volume expired is 500 ml. The air reaches these areas is called alveolar ventilation. dead space would be 497 negortin tnecreP negyxo erup fo noitaripsnI UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration 30 ×500=150ml V A=Freq× (V T−V D) Normal Dead S3 p0 a+ ce7 V0 olume. The normal dead space air utew , Fh re er qe V is A t his e t fh re e qv uo elu nm cye oo ff ra elv speo irl aa tr i ov nen
