Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Fh re er qe V is A t his e t fh re e qv uo elu nm cye oo ff ra elv speo irl aa tr i ov nen pti el ra t mio in n up te er , m Vi n is- t in a young man is about 150 ml. Dead space air increases the tidal volume, and V is the physiological dead space d slightly with age. volume. Anatomical Versus Physiological Dead Space. The Thus, with a normal tidal volume of 500 ml, a normal method just described for measuring the dead space meas- dead space of 150 ml, and a respiratory rate of 12 breaths/ ures the volume of all the space of the respiratory system min, alveolar ventilation equals 12 × (500 − 150), or 4200 other than the alveoli and their other closely related gas ex- ml/min. change areas; this space is called the anatomic dead space. Alveolar ventilation is one of the major factors deter- On occasion, some of the alveoli are nonfunctional or only partially functional because of absent or poor blood flow mining the concentrations of oxygen and carbon dioxide through the adjacent pulmonary capillaries. Therefore, in the alveoli. Therefore, almost all discussions of gaseous these alveoli must also be considered dead space. When the exchange in the following chapters on the respiratory sys- alveolar dead space is included in the total measurement tem focus on alveolar ventilation. of dead space, this is called the physiological dead space, in Functions of Respiratory Passageways contradistinction to the anatomical dead space. In a person with healthy lungs, the anatomical and physiological dead Trachea, Bronchi, and Bronchioles spaces are nearly equal because all alveoli are functional in Figure 38- 8 highlights the respiratory passageways. The air the normal lung but, in a person with partially functional is distributed to the lungs by way of the trachea, bronchi, or nonfunctional alveoli in some parts of the lungs, the and bronchioles. physiological dead space may be as much as 10 times the One of the most important challenges in the respiratory volume of the anatomical dead space, or 1 to 2 liters. These passageways is to keep them open and allow easy passage problems are discussed further in Chapter 40 in relation to of air to and from the alveoli. To keep the trachea from col- pulmonary gaseous exchange and in Chapter 43 in
