Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are discussed further in Chapter 40 in relation to of air to and from the alveoli. To keep the trachea from col- pulmonary gaseous exchange and in Chapter 43 in relation lapsing, multiple cartilage rings extend about five-sixths of to certain pulmonary diseases. the way around the trachea. In the walls of the bronchi, less RATE OF ALVEOLAR VENTILATION extensive curved cartilage plates also maintain a reasonable amount of rigidity yet allow sufficient motion for the lungs Alveolar ventilation per minute is the total volume of new to expand and contract. These plates become progressively air entering the alveoli and adjacent gas exchange areas less extensive in the later generations of bronchi and are gone in the bronchioles, which usually have diameters less each minute. It is equal to the respiratory rate times the than 1.5 millimeters. The bronchioles are not prevented amount of new air that enters these areas with each breath: CO O 2 2 Alveolus Conchae O O 2 2 Pharynx CO 2 CO 2 Glottis Epiglottis Pulmonary capillary Larynx, vocal cords Esophagus Trachea Pulmonary arteries Pulmonary veins Alveoli Figure 38- 8 Respiratory passages. 498 Chapter 38 Pulmonary Ventilation from collapsing by the rigidity of their walls. Instead, they Local Secretory Factors May Cause Bronchiolar Constric- are kept expanded mainly by the same transpulmonary tion. Several substances formed in the lungs are often active pressures that expand the alveoli. That is, as the alveoli en- in causing bronchiolar constriction. Two of the most impor- large, the bronchioles also enlarge, but not as much. tant of these are histamine and slow reactive substance of Muscular Wall of the Bronchi and Bronchioles. In all anaphylaxis. Both these substances are released in the lung areas of the trachea and bronchi not occupied by cartilage tissues by mast cells during allergic reactions, especially plates, the walls are composed mainly of smooth mus- those caused by pollen in the air. Therefore, they play key cle. Also, the walls of the bronchioles are almost entirely roles in causing airway obstruction in allergic asthma; this is smooth muscle, with the exception of the most terminal especially true of the slow reactive substance of anaphylaxis. bronchiole, called the respiratory bronchiole, which is The same irritants that cause parasympathetic constric- mainly pulmonary epithelium and underlying fibrous tissue tor reflexes of the airways—smoke, dust, sulfur dioxide, and plus a few smooth muscle fibers. Many obstructive diseases some
