Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that cause parasympathetic constric- mainly pulmonary epithelium and underlying fibrous tissue tor reflexes of the airways—smoke, dust, sulfur dioxide, and plus a few smooth muscle fibers. Many obstructive diseases some of the acidic elements in smog—may also act directly of the lung result from narrowing of the smaller bronchi on the lung tissues to initiate local, non-n ervous reactions and larger bronchioles, often because of excessive contrac- that cause obstructive constriction of the airways. tion of the smooth muscle. Resistance to Airflow in the Bronchial Tree. Under nor- Mucus Lining the Respiratory Passageways and Cilia Action to Clear the Passageways mal respiratory conditions, air flows through the respira- tory passageways so easily that less than 1 cm H O pressure All the respiratory passages, from the nose to the terminal 2 gradient from the alveoli to the atmosphere is sufficient bronchioles, are kept moist by a layer of mucus that coats to cause enough airflow for quiet breathing. The greatest the entire surface. The mucus is secreted partly by individual amount of resistance to airflow occurs not in the tiny air mucous goblet cells in the epithelial lining of the passages and passages of the terminal bronchioles but in some of the partly by small submucosal glands. In addition to keeping the larger bronchioles and bronchi near the trachea. The rea- surfaces moist, the mucus traps small particles out of the in- son for this high resistance is that there are relatively few of spired air and keeps most of these particles from ever reach- these larger bronchi in comparison with the approximately ing the alveoli. The mucus is removed from the passages in 65,000 parallel terminal bronchioles, through each of which the following manner. only a minute amount of air must pass. The entire surface of the respiratory passages, in the nose In some disease conditions, the smaller bronchioles play and the lower passages, down as far as the terminal bronchi- a far greater role in determining airflow resistance because oles, is lined with ciliated epithelium, with about 200 cilia on of their small size and because they are easily occluded each epithelial cell. These cilia beat continually at a rate of 10 by the following: (1) muscle contraction in their walls; (2) to 20 times/sec by the mechanism explained in Chapter 2, and edema in the walls; or (3) mucus collecting in the lumens the direction of their
