Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in their walls; (2) to 20 times/sec by the mechanism explained in Chapter 2, and edema in the walls; or (3) mucus collecting in the lumens the direction of their “power stroke” is always toward the phar- of the bronchioles. ynx. That is, the cilia in the lungs beat upward, whereas those Nervous and Local Control of the Bronchiolar Muscu- in the nose beat downward. This continual beating causes the lature—Sympathetic Dilation of the Bronchioles. Direct coat of mucus to flow slowly, at a velocity of a few millime- control of the bronchioles by sympathetic nerve fibers is ters per minute, toward the pharynx. Then the mucus and its relatively weak because few of these fibers penetrate to the entrapped particles are swallowed or coughed to the exterior. central portions of the lung. However, the bronchial tree Cough Reflex is very much exposed to norepinephrine and epinephrine released into the blood by sympathetic stimulation of the The bronchi and trachea are so sensitive to light touch that adrenal gland medullae. Both these hormones, especially slight amounts of foreign matter or other causes of irritation epinephrine because of its greater stimulation of beta- initiate the cough reflex. The larynx and carina (the point where adrenergic receptors, cause dilation of the bronchial tree. the trachea divides into the bronchi) are especially sensitive, and Parasympathetic Constriction of the Bronchioles. the terminal bronchioles and even the alveoli are sensitive to A few parasympathetic nerve fibers derived from the va- corrosive chemical stimuli such as sulfur dioxide gas or chlorine gus nerves penetrate the lung parenchyma. These nerves gas. Afferent nerve impulses pass from the respiratory passages secrete acetylcholine and, when activated, cause mild to mainly through the vagus nerves to the medulla of the brain. moderate constriction of the bronchioles. When a disease There, an automatic sequence of events is triggered by the neu- process such as asthma has already caused some bronchi- ronal circuits of the medulla, causing the following effects. olar constriction, superimposed parasympathetic nervous 1. Up to 2.5 liters of air are rapidly inspired. stimulation often worsens the condition. When this situa- 2. The epiglottis closes, and the vocal cords shut tightly to tion occurs, administration of drugs that block the effects entrap the air within the lungs. of acetylcholine, such as atropine, can sometimes relax the 3. The abdominal muscles contract forcefully, pushing respiratory passages enough to relieve the obstruction.
