Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


effects entrap the air within the lungs. of acetylcholine, such as atropine, can sometimes relax the 3. The abdominal muscles contract forcefully, pushing respiratory passages enough to relieve the obstruction. against the diaphragm while other expiratory muscles, Sometimes the parasympathetic nerves are also acti- such as the internal intercostals, also contract forcefully. vated by reflexes that originate in the lungs. Most of these Consequently, the pressure in the lungs rises rapidly, to reflexes begin with irritation of the epithelial membrane as much as 100 mm Hg or more. of the respiratory passageways, initiated by noxious gases, 4. The vocal cords and epiglottis suddenly open widely, so dust, cigarette smoke, or bronchial infection. Also, a bron- that air under this high pressure in the lungs explodes chiolar constrictor reflex often occurs when microemboli outward. Sometimes this air is expelled at velocities occlude small pulmonary arteries. ranging from 75 to 100 miles/hour. 499 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration Importantly, the strong compression of the lungs col- example, the particles of cigarette smoke are about 0.3 mi- lapses the bronchi and trachea by causing their noncarti- crometer. Almost none of these particles are precipitated in laginous parts to invaginate inward, so the exploding air the respiratory passageways before they reach the alveoli. actually passes through bronchial and tracheal slits. The Unfortunately, up to one-third of them do precipitate in the rapidly moving air usually carries with it any foreign matter alveoli by the diffusion process, with the balance remaining that is present in the bronchi or trachea. suspended and expelled in the expired air. Many of the particles that become entrapped in the al- Sneeze Reflex veoli are removed by alveolar macrophages, as explained in The sneeze reflex is very much like the cough reflex, except Chapter 34, and others are carried away by the lung lym- that it applies to the nasal passageways instead of the lower phatics. An excess of particles can cause growth of fibrous respiratory passages. The initiating stimulus of the sneeze tissue in the alveolar septa, leading to permanent debility. reflex is irritation in the nasal passageways; the afferent im- Vocalization pulses pass in the fifth cranial nerve to the medulla, where the reflex is triggered. A series of reactions similar to those Speech involves not only the respiratory system but also for the cough reflex takes place, but the uvula is depressed, the following: (1) specific speech
