Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of reactions similar to those Speech involves not only the respiratory system but also for the cough reflex takes place, but the uvula is depressed, the following: (1) specific speech nervous control centers in so large amounts of air pass rapidly through the nose, thus the cerebral cortex, discussed in Chapter 58; (2) respiratory helping clear the nasal passages of foreign matter. control centers of the brain; and (3) the articulation and resonance structures of mouth and nasal cavities. Speech Normal Respiratory Functions of the Nose is composed of two mechanical functions: (1) phonation, As air passes through the nose, three distinct normal respira- which is achieved by the larynx; and (2) articulation, which tory functions are performed by the nasal cavities: (1) the air is achieved by the structures of the mouth. is warmed by the extensive surfaces of the conchae and sep- Phonation. The larynx, shown in Figure 38- 9A, is es- tum, a total area of about 160 square centimeters (see Figure pecially adapted to act as a vibrator. The vibrating elements 38- 8); (2) the air is almost completely humidified, even before are the vocal folds, commonly called the vocal cords. The it passes beyond the nose; and (3) the air is partially filtered. vocal cords protrude from the lateral walls of the larynx These functions together are called the air- conditioning func- toward the center of the glottis; they are stretched and po- tion of the upper respiratory passageways. Ordinarily, the sitioned by several specific muscles of the larynx itself. temperature of the inspired air rises to within 1°F of body tem- Figure 38- 9B shows the vocal cords as they are seen perature and to within 2% to 3% of full saturation with water when looking into the glottis with a laryngoscope. During vapor before it reaches the trachea. When a person breathes normal breathing, the cords are wide open to allow easy pas- air through a tube directly into the trachea (as through a tra- sage of air. During phonation, the cords move together so cheostomy), the cooling and especially the drying effect in the that passage of air between them will cause vibration. The lower lung can lead to serious lung crusting and infection. pitch of the vibration is determined mainly by the degree Filtration Function of the Nose. The hairs at the entrance of stretch of the cords, but also by
