Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and infection. pitch of the vibration is determined mainly by the degree Filtration Function of the Nose. The hairs at the entrance of stretch of the cords, but also by how tightly the cords are to the nostrils are important for filtering out large particles. approximated to one another and by the mass of their edges. Much more important, though, is the removal of particles by Figure 38- 9A shows a dissected view of the vocal folds turbulent precipitation. That is, the air passing through the after removal of the mucous epithelial lining. Immediately in- nasal passageways hits many obstructing vanes—the con- side each cord is a strong elastic ligament called the vocal liga- chae (also called turbinates, because they cause turbulence ment. This ligament is attached anteriorly to the large thyroid of the air), the septum, and the pharyngeal wall. Each time cartilage, which is the cartilage that projects forward from the air hits one of these obstructions, it must change its direc- anterior surface of the neck and is called the Adam’s apple. tion of movement. The particles suspended in the air, having Posteriorly, the vocal ligament is attached to the vocal pro- far more mass and momentum than air, cannot change their cesses of two arytenoid cartilages. The thyroid cartilage and direction of travel as rapidly as the air can. Therefore, they the arytenoid cartilages articulate from below with another continue forward, striking the surfaces of the obstructions, cartilage (not shown in Figure 38- 9), the cricoid cartilage. and are entrapped in the mucous coating and transported by The vocal cords can be stretched by forward rotation of the cilia to the pharynx to be swallowed. the thyroid cartilage or posterior rotation of the arytenoid Size of Particles Entrapped in the Respiratory Passag- cartilages, activated by muscles stretching from the thyroid es. The nasal turbulence mechanism for removing particles cartilage and arytenoid cartilages to the cricoid cartilage. from air is so effective that almost no particles larger than 6 Muscles located in the vocal cords lateral to the vocal liga- micrometers in diameter enter the lungs through the nose. ments, the thyroarytenoid muscles, can pull the arytenoid This size is smaller than red blood cells. cartilages toward the thyroid cartilage and, therefore, loos- Of the remaining particles, many that are between 1 and en the vocal cords. Also, slips of these muscles in the vocal 5 micrometers
