Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the thyroid cartilage and, therefore, loos- Of the remaining particles, many that are between 1 and en the vocal cords. Also, slips of these muscles in the vocal 5 micrometers settle in the smaller bronchioles as a result cords can change the shapes and masses of the vocal cord of gravitational precipitation. For example, terminal bron- edges, sharpening them to emit high- pitched sounds and chiolar disease is common in coal miners because of settled blunting them for the more bass sounds. dust particles. Some of the still smaller particles (<1 mi- Several other sets of small laryngeal muscles lie between crometer in diameter) diffuse against the walls of the alveoli the arytenoid cartilages and cricoid cartilage and can ro- and adhere to the alveolar fluid. However, many particles tate these cartilages inward or outward or pull their bases smaller than 0.5 micrometer in diameter remain suspend- together or apart to give the various configurations of the ed in the alveolar air and are expelled by expiration. For vocal cords, shown in Figure 38- 9B. 500 Chapter 38 Pulmonary Ventilation Thyroid cartilage Thyroarytenoid muscle Vocal ligament Lateral Full Gentle Intermediate position– cricoarytenoid abduction abduction loud whisper muscle Arytenoid cartilage Posterior Transverse cricoarytenoid Stage Phonation arytenoid muscle whisper A B muscle Figure 38- 9 A, Anatomy of the larynx. B, Laryngeal function in phonation, showing the positions of the vocal cords during different types of phonation. (Modified from Greene MC: The Voice and Its Disorders, 4th ed. Philadelphia: JB Lippincott, 1980.) Articulation and Resonance. The three major organs of Keller JA, McGovern AE, Mazzone SB: Translating cough mechanisms into better cough suppressants. Chest 152:833, 2017. articulation are the lips, tongue, and soft palate. They need Lai- Fook SJ: Pleural mechanics and fluid exchange. Physiol Rev not be discussed in detail here because we are all familiar 84:385, 2004. with their movements during speech and other vocaliza- Levin DL, Schiebler ML, Hopkins SR: Physiology for the pulmonary tions. functional imager. Eur J Radiol 86:308, 2017. The resonators include the mouth, the nose and associ- Lopez- Rodriguez E, Pérez- Gil J: Structure- function relationships in ated nasal sinuses, the pharynx, and even the chest cavity. pulmonary surfactant membranes: from biophysics to therapy. Bio- Again, we are familiar with the resonating qualities of these chim Biophys Acta 1838:1568, 2014. structures. For example, the function of the nasal resona- Ma J, Rubin BK, Voynow JA:
