Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


thoracic aorta, supply most of this systemic arterial blood in contrast to the partially deoxygenated blood in the pul- at a pressure that is only slightly lower than the aortic monary arteries. It supplies the supporting tissues of the pressure. lungs, including the connective tissue, septa, and large The low- pressure, high- flow circulation supplies venous and small bronchi. After this bronchial and arterial blood blood from all parts of the body to the alveolar capillar- passes through the supporting tissues, it empties into the ies where oxygen (O ) is added and carbon dioxide (CO ) 2 2 pulmonary veins and enters the left atrium, rather than is removed. The pulmonary artery, which receives blood passing back to the right atrium. Therefore, the flow into from the right ventricle, and its arterial branches carry the left atrium and left ventricular output are about 1% to blood to the alveolar capillaries for gas exchange, and the 2% greater than that of the right ventricular output. pulmonary veins then return the blood to the left atrium to be pumped by the left ventricle though the systemic Lymphatics. Lymph vessels are present in all the support- circulation. ive tissues of the lung, beginning in the connective tissue In this chapter, we discuss the special aspects of the spaces that surround the terminal bronchioles, coursing pulmonary circulation that are important for gas exchange to the hilum of the lung, and then mainly into the right in the lungs. thoracic lymph duct. Particulate matter entering the alve- oli is partly removed by these lymph vessels, and plasma protein leaking from the lung capillaries is also removed PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE from the lung tissues, thereby helping to prevent pulmo- PULMONARY CIRCULATORY SYSTEM nary edema. Pulmonary Vessels. The pulmonary artery extends only PRESSURES IN THE PULMONARY 5 centimeters beyond the apex of the right ventricle and SYSTEM then divides into right and left main branches that supply blood to the two respective lungs. Pressures in the Right Ventricle. The pressure pulse The pulmonary artery has a wall thickness one-third curves of the right ventricle and pulmonary artery are that of the aorta. The pulmonary arterial branches are shown in the lower portion of Figure 39- 1. These curves short, and all the pulmonary arteries, even the smaller are contrasted with the much higher aortic pressure curve arteries and arterioles, have larger diameters than their shown
