Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1. These curves short, and all the pulmonary arteries, even the smaller are contrasted with the much higher aortic pressure curve arteries and arterioles, have larger diameters than their shown in the upper portion of the figure. The normal sys- counterpart systemic arteries. This feature, combined tolic pressure in the right ventricle averages about 25 mm with the fact that the vessels are thin and distensible, gives Hg, and the diastolic pressure averages about 0 to 1 mm the pulmonary arterial tree a large compliance, averaging Hg, values that are only one-fifth those for the left ventricle. almost 7 ml/mm Hg, which is similar to that of the entire systemic arterial tree. This large compliance allows the Pressures in the Pulmonary Artery. During systole, pulmonary arteries to accommodate the stroke volume the pressure in the pulmonary artery is essentially equal output of the right ventricle. to the pressure in the right ventricle, as also shown in 503 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration Aortic pressure curve the right atrium, then through the right side of the heart 120 and through the pulmonary artery into one of the small branches of the pulmonary artery, and finally pushing the catheter until it wedges tightly in the small branch. The pressure measured through the catheter, called the 75 “wedge pressure,” is about 5 mm Hg. Because all blood flow has been stopped in the small wedged artery, and because the blood vessels extending beyond this artery make a Right ventricular curve direct connection with the pulmonary capillaries, this Pulmonary artery curve wedge pressure is usually only 2 to 3 mm Hg higher than 25 the left atrial pressure. When the left atrial pressure rises 8 to high values, the pulmonary wedge pressure also rises. 0 Therefore, wedge pressure measurements can be used to 0 1 2 estimate changes in pulmonary capillary pressure and left Seconds atrial pressure in patients with congestive heart failure. Figure 39-1 . Pressure pulse contours in the right ventricle, pulmo- nary artery, and aorta. BLOOD VOLUME OF THE LUNGS 25 S The blood volume of the lungs is about 450 ml, about 9% of the total blood volume of the entire circulatory system. Approximately 70 ml of this pulmonary blood volume Pulmonary 15 M capillaries Left is in the pulmonary capillaries; the remainder is divided atrium about equally between the pulmonary arteries and veins. 8 D 7 Lungs Serve as
