Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


volume Pulmonary 15 M capillaries Left is in the pulmonary capillaries; the remainder is divided atrium about equally between the pulmonary arteries and veins. 8 D 7 Lungs Serve as a Blood Reservoir. Under various physi- 2 ological and pathological conditions, the quantity of blood 0 in the lungs can vary from as little as half-n ormal up to Pulmonary Pulmonary Left artery capillaries atrium twice normal. For example, when a person blows out air Figure 39-2 . Pressures in the different vessels of the lungs. The red so hard that high pressure is built up in the lungs, such as curve denotes arterial pulsations. D, Diastolic; M, mean; S, systolic. when blowing a trumpet, as much as 250 ml of blood can be expelled from the pulmonary circulatory system into the systemic circulation. Also, loss of blood from the sys- Figure 39-1 . However, after the pulmonary valve closes temic circulation by hemorrhage can be partly compen- at the end of systole, the ventricular pressure falls pre- sated for by the automatic shift of blood from the lungs cipitously, whereas the pulmonary arterial pressure falls into the systemic vessels. more slowly as blood flows through the lungs. As shown in Figure 39- 2, the systolic pulmonary arte- Cardiac Pathology May Shift Blood From Systemic rial pressure normally averages about 25 mm Hg in the Circulation to Pulmonary Circulation. Failure of the human being, the diastolic pulmonary arterial pressure is left side of the heart, or increased resistance to blood flow about 8 mm Hg, and the mean pulmonary arterial pres- through the mitral valve as a result of mitral stenosis or sure is 15 mm Hg. mitral regurgitation, causes blood to dam up in the pul- monary circulation, sometimes increasing the pulmonary Pulmonary Capillary Pressure. The mean pulmonary blood volume as much as 100% and causing large increas- capillary pressure, as diagrammed in Figure 39- 2, is about es in the pulmonary vascular pressures. Because the vol- 7 mm Hg. The importance of this low capillary pressure is ume of the systemic circulation is about nine times that of discussed in detail later in the chapter in relation to fluid the pulmonary system, a shift of blood from one system to exchange functions of the pulmonary capillaries. the other affects the pulmonary system greatly but usually Left Atrial and Pulmonary Venous Pressures. The has only mild systemic circulatory effects.
