Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


system to exchange functions of the pulmonary capillaries. the other affects the pulmonary system greatly but usually Left Atrial and Pulmonary Venous Pressures. The has only mild systemic circulatory effects. mean pressure in the left atrium and major pulmonary veins averages about 2 mm Hg in the recumbent person, BLOOD FLOW THROUGH THE LUNGS varying from as low as 1 mm Hg to as high as 5 mm Hg. AND ITS DISTRIBUTION It usually is not feasible to measure someone’s left atrial pressure using a direct measuring device because it is Blood flow through the lungs is essentially equal to the difficult to pass a catheter through the heart chambers cardiac output. Therefore, the factors that control car- into the left atrium. However, the left atrial pressure can diac output—mainly peripheral factors, as discussed in be estimated with moderate accuracy by measuring the Chapter 20—also control pulmonary blood flow. Under so- called pulmonary wedge pressure. This is measured most conditions, the pulmonary vessels act as distensible by inserting a catheter first through a peripheral vein to tubes that enlarge with increasing pressure and narrow 504 )gH mm( erusserP )gHmm( erusserP Chapter 39 Pulmonary Circulation, Pulmonary Edema, and Pleural Fluid Exercise NORMAL Alveolus Alveolus Standing at rest Increased Top Middle Bottom flow Lung level Vasoconstriction Figure 39- 4. Blood flow at different levels in the lung of an upright person at rest (red curve) and during exercise (blue curve). Note that when the person is at rest, the blood flow is very low at the top of the HYPOXIA PO2 lungs; most of the flow is through the bottom of the lung. and causing the influx of calcium ions. The rise of calcium concentration then causes constriction of small arteries and arterioles. Figure 39-3 . Regulation of blood flow in the lungs during local tis- The increase in pulmonary vascular resistance as a sue hypoxia. Local tissue blood flow and alveolar ventilation are nor- result of low O concentration has the important function 2 mally matched for optimal gas exchange (top panel). Decreased Po2 of distributing blood flow where it is most effective. That in tissue surrounding poorly ventilated alveoli causes vasoconstriction is, if some alveoli are poorly ventilated and have a low O of adjacent arterioles and diverts blood flow to alveoli that are well 2 ventilated (bottom panel). concentration, the local vessels constrict. This constric- tion causes the blood
