Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a low O of adjacent arterioles and diverts blood flow to alveoli that are well 2 ventilated (bottom panel). concentration, the local vessels constrict. This constric- tion causes the blood to flow through other areas of the lungs that are better aerated, thus providing an automatic with decreasing pressure. For adequate aeration of the control system for distributing blood flow to the pulmo- blood to occur, the blood must be distributed to the seg- nary areas in proportion to their alveolar O pressures. ments of the lungs where the alveoli are best oxygenated. 2 This distribution is achieved by the following mechanism. EFFECT OF HYDROSTATIC PRESSURE Decreased Alveolar Oxygen Reduces Local Alveolar GRADIENTS IN THE LUNGS ON Blood Flow and Regulates Pulmonary Blood Flow REGIONAL PULMONARY BLOOD FLOW Distribution. When the concentration of O in the air 2 of the alveoli decreases below normal, especially when it In Chapter 15, we pointed out that the blood pressure in falls below 70% of normal (i.e., <73 mm Hg Po ), the ad- the foot of a standing person can be as much as 90 mm Hg 2 jacent blood vessels constrict (Figure 39- 3) and may in- greater than the pressure at the level of the heart. This dif- crease vascular resistance more than fivefold at extremely ference is caused by hydrostatic pressure—that is, by the low O levels. This effect is opposite to the effect observed weight of the blood itself in the blood vessels. The same 2 in systemic vessels, which dilate rather than constrict in effect, but to a lesser degree, occurs in the lungs. In the response to low O levels. Although the mechanisms that upright adult, the lowest point in the lungs is normally 2 promote pulmonary vasoconstriction during hypoxia are about 30 cm below the highest point, which represents a not completely understood, low O concentration may 23- mm Hg pressure difference, about 15 mm Hg of which 2 have the following effects: (1) stimulate release of, or in- is above the heart and 8 below. That is, the pulmonary crease sensitivity to, vasoconstrictor substances such as arterial pressure in the uppermost portion of the lung of endothelin or reactive oxygen species; or (2) decrease re- a standing person is about 15 mm Hg less than the pul- lease of a vasodilator, such as nitric oxide, from the lung monary arterial pressure at the level
