Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


re- a standing person is about 15 mm Hg less than the pul- lease of a vasodilator, such as nitric oxide, from the lung monary arterial pressure at the level of the heart, and the tissue. pressure in the lowest portion of the lungs is about 8 mm Some studies have suggested that hypoxia may directly Hg higher. induce vasoconstriction by inhibition of oxygen- sensitive Such pressure differences have profound effects on potassium ion channels in pulmonary vascular smooth blood flow through the different areas of the lungs. This muscle cell membranes. With low partial pressures of oxy- effect is demonstrated by the lower curve in Figure 39- 4, gen, these channels are blocked, leading to depolarization which depicts blood flow per unit of lung tissue at differ- of the cell membrane and activation of calcium channels ent levels of the lung in the upright person. Note that in 505 wolf doolB )eussit fo tinu rep( UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration • Zone 3: Continuous blood flow because the alveolar ZONE 1 capillary pressure remains greater than alveolar air Artery PALV Vein pressure during the entire cardiac cycle Normally, the lungs have only zones 2 and 3 blood flow—zone 2 (intermittent flow) in the apices and zone Ppc 3 (continuous flow) in all the lower areas. For example, when a person is in the upright position, the pulmonary arterial pressure at the lung apex is about 15 mm Hg less ZONE 2 than the pressure at the level of the heart. Therefore, the Artery PALV Vein apical systolic pressure is only 10 mm Hg (25 mm Hg at heart level minus 15 mm Hg hydrostatic pressure differ- ence). This 10 mm Hg apical blood pressure is greater Ppc than the 0 alveolar air pressure, so blood flows through the pulmonary apical capillaries during cardiac systole. ZONE 3 Conversely, during diastole, the 8 mm Hg diastolic pres- sure at the level of the heart is not sufficient to push Artery PALV Vein the blood up the 15 mm Hg hydrostatic pressure gradi- ent required to cause diastolic capillary flow. Therefore, blood flow through the apical part of the lung is inter- Ppc mittent, with flow during systole but cessation of flow during diastole; this is called zone 2 blood flow. Zone 2 Figure 39- 5. Mechanics of blood flow in the three blood flow zones blood flow begins in normal lungs
