Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


during diastole; this is called zone 2 blood flow. Zone 2 Figure 39- 5. Mechanics of blood flow in the three blood flow zones blood flow begins in normal lungs about 10 cm above of the lung: zone 1, no flow—alveolar air pressure (PALV) is greater the midlevel of the heart and extends from there to the than arterial pressure; zone 2, intermittent flow—systolic arterial top of the lungs. pressure rises higher than alveolar air pressure, but diastolic arterial In the lower regions of the lungs, from about 10 cm pressure falls below alveolar air pressure; and zone 3, continuous flow—arterial pressure and pulmonary capillary pressure (Ppc) remain above the level of the heart all the way to the bottom of greater than alveolar air pressure at all times. the lungs, the pulmonary arterial pressure during both systole and diastole remains greater than the 0 alveolar air pressure. Therefore, continuous flow occurs through the standing position at rest, there is little flow in the top the alveolar capillaries, or zone 3 blood flow. Also, when of the lung but about five times as much flow in the bot- a person is lying down, no part of the lung is more than a tom. To help explain these differences, the lung is often few centimeters above the level of the heart. In this case, described as being divided into three zones, as shown in blood flow in a normal person is entirely zone 3 blood Figure 39- 5. In each zone, the patterns of blood flow are flow, including the lung apices. quite different. Zone 1 Blood Flow Occurs Only Under Abnormal Zones 1, 2, and 3 of Pulmonary Blood Conditions. Zone 1 blood flow, which means no blood Flow flow at any time during the cardiac cycle, occurs when the pulmonary systolic arterial pressure is too low or The capillaries in the alveolar walls are distended by the alveolar pressure is too high to allow flow. For ex- the blood pressure inside them but simultaneously are ample, if an upright person is breathing against a posi- compressed by the alveolar air pressure on their out- tive air pressure so that the intra- alveolar air pressure sides. Therefore, whenever the lung alveolar air pressure is at least 10 mm Hg greater than normal but the pul- becomes greater than the capillary blood pressure, the monary systolic blood pressure is normal, one
