Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


alveolar air pressure is at least 10 mm Hg greater than normal but the pul- becomes greater than the capillary blood pressure, the monary systolic blood pressure is normal, one would capillaries close, and there is no blood flow. Under dif- expect zone 1 blood flow—no blood flow—in the lung ferent normal and pathological lung conditions, one may apices. Another case in which zone 1 blood flow oc- find any one of three possible zones (patterns) of pulmo- curs is in an upright person whose pulmonary systolic nary blood flow, as follows: arterial pressure is exceedingly low, as might occur after • Zone 1: No blood flow during all portions of the car- severe blood loss. diac cycle because the local alveolar capillary pressure in that area of the lung never rises higher than the al- Exercise Increases Blood Flow Through All Parts of veolar air pressure during any part of the cardiac cycle the Lungs. Referring again to Figure 39- 4, one sees that • Zone 2: Intermittent blood flow only during the the blood flow in all parts of the lung increases during ex- peaks of pulmonary arterial pressure because the ercise. A major reason for increased blood flow is that the systolic pressure is then greater than the alveolar air pulmonary vascular pressures rise enough during exercise pressure, but the diastolic pressure is less than the to convert the lung apices from a zone 2 pattern into a alveolar air pressure zone 3 pattern of flow. 506 Chapter 39 Pulmonary Circulation, Pulmonary Edema, and Pleural Fluid when the left atrial pressure rises to greater than 7 or 8 30 mm Hg, further increases in left atrial pressure cause almost equally great increases in pulmonary arterial pres- sure, thus causing a concomitant increased load on the Normal value right heart. Any increase in left atrial pressure above 7 or 20 8 mm Hg increases capillary pressure almost equally as much. When the left atrial pressure rises above 30 mm Hg, causing similar increases in capillary pressure, pul- 10 monary edema is likely to develop, as discussed later in the chapter. PULMONARY CAPILLARY DYNAMICS 0 0 4 8 12 16 20 24 Exchange of gases between the alveolar air and pulmo- Cardiac output (L/min) nary capillary blood is discussed in the next chapter. How- Figure 39- 6. Effect on mean pulmonary arterial pressure caused by ever, it is important
