Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and pulmo- Cardiac output (L/min) nary capillary blood is discussed in the next chapter. How- Figure 39- 6. Effect on mean pulmonary arterial pressure caused by ever, it is important to note here that the alveolar walls increasing the cardiac output during exercise. are lined with so many capillaries that in most places, the capillaries almost touch one another side by side. There- Increased Cardiac Output During Heavy fore, it is often said that the capillary blood flows in the Exercise Is Normally Accommodated by alveolar walls as a “sheet of flow,” rather than in individual the Pulmonary Circulation Without Large capillaries. Increases in Pulmonary Artery Pressure Pulmonary Capillary Pressure. Although direct meas- During heavy exercise, blood flow through the lungs may urements of pulmonary capillary pressure have not been increase fourfold to sevenfold. This extra flow is accom- reported, indirect estimates have suggested that it nor- modated in the lungs in three ways: (1) by increasing the mally averages about 7 mm Hg. This value is probably number of open capillaries, sometimes as much as three- nearly correct because the mean left atrial pressure is fold; (2) by distending all the capillaries and increasing about 2 mm Hg, and the mean pulmonary arterial pres- the rate of flow through each capillary more than two- sure is only 15 mm Hg, so the mean pulmonary capillary fold; and (3) by increasing the pulmonary arterial pres- pressure must lie somewhere between these two values. sure. Normally, the first two changes decrease pulmonary vascular resistance so much that the pulmonary arterial Length of Time Blood Stays in the Pulmonary Cap- pressure rises very little, even during maximum exercise. illaries. From histological studies of the total cross- This effect is shown in Figure 39- 6. sectional area of all the pulmonary capillaries, it can be The ability of the lungs to accommodate greatly calculated that when the cardiac output is normal, blood increased blood flow during exercise, without increas- passes through the pulmonary capillaries in about 0.8 ing the pulmonary arterial pressure, conserves the energy second. When the cardiac output increases, this time of the right side of the heart. This ability also prevents a can shorten to as little as 0.3 second. The shortened time major rise in pulmonary capillary pressure and the devel- would be much greater were it not for the fact that addi- opment of pulmonary edema. tional capillaries,
