Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The shortened time major rise in pulmonary capillary pressure and the devel- would be much greater were it not for the fact that addi- opment of pulmonary edema. tional capillaries, which normally are collapsed, open up to accommodate the increased blood flow. Thus, in only Function of Pulmonary Circulation When a fraction of a second, blood passing through the alveolar Left Atrial Pressure Rises as a Result of capillaries becomes oxygenated and loses its excess car- Left-S ided Heart Failure bon dioxide. The left atrial pressure in a healthy person almost never Capillary Exchange of Fluid in the Lungs rises above +6 mm Hg, even during the most strenuous and Pulmonary Interstitial Fluid Dynamics exercise. These small changes in left atrial pressure have virtually no effect on pulmonary circulatory function The dynamics of fluid exchange across the lung capillary because this merely expands the pulmonary venules and membranes are qualitatively the same as for peripheral opens up more capillaries so that blood continues to flow tissues. However, quantitatively, there are important dif- with almost equal ease from the pulmonary arteries. ferences, as follows: When the left side of the heart fails, however, blood 1. The pulmonary capillary pressure is low, about 7 begins to dam up in the left atrium. As a result, the left mm Hg, in comparison with a considerably higher atrial pressure can rise on occasion from its normal value functional capillary pressure in many peripheral tis- of 1 to 5 mm Hg to as high as 40 to 50 mm Hg. The ini- sues of about 17 mm Hg. tial rise in atrial pressure, up to about 7 mm Hg, has lit- 2. The interstitial fluid pressure in the lung is slightly tle effect on pulmonary circulatory function. However, more negative than that in peripheral subcutane- 507 lairetra yranomluP )gHmm( erusserp UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration Pressures Causing Fluid Movement Thus, the normal outward forces are slightly greater Capillary Alveolus than the inward forces, providing a mean filtration pres- sure at the pulmonary capillary membrane that can be calculated as +29 − 28 mm Hg = +1 mm Hg. Hydrostatic This filtration pressure causes a slight continual flow of −8 pressure +7 −8 −8(Surface fluid from the pulmonary capillaries into the interstitial tension spaces and, except for a small amount that evaporates in at pore) Osmotic the alveoli, this fluid is pumped back to the circulation
