Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the pulmonary capillaries into the interstitial tension spaces and, except for a small amount that evaporates in at pore) Osmotic the alveoli, this fluid is pumped back to the circulation pressure −28 −14 through the pulmonary lymphatic system. N pre et ssure (+1) −5 (0) (Evaporation) Negative Pulmonary Interstitial Pressure and Mecha- nism for Keeping Alveoli Dry. What keeps the alveoli from filling with fluid under normal conditions? The pulmo- −4 nary capillaries and pulmonary lymphatic system normally Lymphatic pump maintain a slight negative pressure in the interstitial spaces; whenever extra fluid appears in the alveoli, it is sucked me- Figure 39-7 . Hydrostatic and osmotic forces in mm Hg at the capil- chanically into the lung interstitium through the small open- lary (left) and alveolar membrane (right) of the lungs. Also shown is ings between the alveolar epithelial cells. The excess fluid is the tip end of a lymphatic vessel (center) that pumps fluid from the then carried away through the pulmonary lymphatics. Thus, pulmonary interstitial spaces. under normal conditions, the alveoli are kept “dry,” except for a small amount of fluid that seeps from the epithelium ous tissue. (This pressure has been measured in onto the lining surfaces of the alveoli to keep them moist. two ways—by a micropipette inserted into the pulmonary interstitium, giving a value of about −5 Pulmonary Edema mm Hg, and by measuring the absorption pressure of fluid from the alveoli, giving a value of about −8 Pulmonary edema occurs in the same way that edema mm Hg.) occurs elsewhere in the body. Any factor that increases 3. The colloid osmotic pressure of the pulmonary inter- fluid filtration out of the pulmonary capillaries or that stitial fluid is about 14 mm Hg, in comparison with impedes pulmonary lymphatic function and causes the less than half this value in most peripheral tissues. pulmonary interstitial fluid pressure to rise from the negative range into the positive range will tend to cause 4. The alveolar walls are extremely thin, and the alveo- filling of the pulmonary interstitial spaces and alveoli lar epithelium covering the alveolar surfaces is so with free fluid. weak that it can be ruptured by any positive pres- The most common causes of pulmonary edema are as sure in the interstitial spaces greater than alveolar follows: air pressure (>0 mm Hg), which allows dumping 1. Left- sided heart failure or mitral valve disease, with
