Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


edema are as sure in the interstitial spaces greater than alveolar follows: air pressure (>0 mm Hg), which allows dumping 1. Left- sided heart failure or mitral valve disease, with of fluid from the interstitial spaces into the alveoli. consequent great increases in pulmonary venous pres- Now let us see how these quantitative differences sure and pulmonary capillary pressure and flooding of affect pulmonary fluid dynamics. the interstitial spaces and alveoli 2. Damage to the pulmonary blood capillary membranes Interrelationships Between Interstitial Fluid Pressure caused by infections such as pneumonia or by breathing and Other Pressures in the Lung. Figure 39- 7 shows a noxious substances such as chlorine gas or sulfur diox- pulmonary capillary, pulmonary alveolus, and lymphatic ide gas capillary draining the interstitial space between the blood Each of these mechanisms causes rapid leakage of plas- capillary and alveolus. Note the balance of forces at the ma proteins and fluid out of the capillaries and into the lung blood capillary membrane, as follows: interstitial spaces and alveoli. Pulmonary Edema Safety Factor. Experiments in ani- mm Hg mals have shown that the pulmonary capillary pressure Forces tending to cause movement of fluid outward normally must rise to a value at least equal to the colloid from the capillaries and into the pulmonary osmotic pressure of the plasma inside the capillaries before interstitium: significant pulmonary edema will occur. To give an example, • Capillary pressure 7 Figure 39- 8 shows how different levels of left atrial pressure • Interstitial fluid colloid osmotic pressure 14 increase the rate of pulmonary edema formation in dogs. • Negative interstitial fluid pressure 8 Remember that every time the left atrial pressure rises to TOTAL OUTWARD FORCE 29 high values, the pulmonary capillary pressure rises to a level Forces tending to cause absorption of fluid into the 1 to 2 mm Hg greater than the left atrial pressure. In these capillaries: experiments, as soon as the left atrial pressure rose above • Plasma colloid osmotic pressure 28 23 mm Hg (causing the pulmonary capillary pressure to rise TOTAL INWARD FORCE 28 above 25 mm Hg), fluid began to accumulate in the lungs. This fluid accumulation increased even more rapidly with 508 Chapter 39 Pulmonary Circulation, Pulmonary Edema, and Pleural Fluid Venous system 10 9 x Lymphatics x 8 7 x 6 x 5 4 x x x Pulmonary arteries x 3 x x x 2
