Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Pulmonary Edema, and Pleural Fluid Venous system 10 9 x Lymphatics x 8 7 x 6 x 5 4 x x x Pulmonary arteries x 3 x x x 2 x x x 1 x x x x 0 x x x x x x x Pulmonary 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 veins Left atrial pressure (mmHg) Figure 39- 8. Rate of fluid loss into the lung tissues when the left atrial pressure (and pulmonary capillary pressure) is increased. (From Guyton AC, Lindsey AW: Effect of elevated left atrial pressure and decreased plasma protein concentration on the development of pul- Figure 39- 9. Dynamics of fluid exchange in the intrapleural space. monary edema. Circ Res 7:649, 1959.) further increases in capillary pressure. The plasma colloid osmotic pressure during these experiments was equal to amounts of interstitial fluid transude continually into the this 25 mm Hg critical pressure level. Therefore, in a person, pleural space. These fluids carry tissue proteins with them, whose normal plasma colloid osmotic pressure is 28 mm giving the pleural fluid a mucoid characteristic, which is Hg, one can predict that the pulmonary capillary pressure what allows extremely easy slippage of the moving lungs. must rise from the normal level of 7 mm Hg to more than The total amount of fluid in each pleural cavity is nor- 28 mm Hg to cause substantial pulmonary edema, giving an mally slight—only a few milliliters. Whenever the quan- acute safety factor against pulmonary edema of 21 mm Hg. Safety Factor in Chronic Conditions. When the pulmo- tity becomes more than barely enough to begin flowing in the pleural cavity, the excess fluid is pumped away by nary capillary pressure remains elevated chronically (for lymphatic vessels opening directly from the pleural cav- at least 2 weeks), the lungs become even more resistant to pulmonary edema because the lymph vessels expand great- ity into the following: (1) the mediastinum; (2) the supe- ly, increasing their capability of carrying fluid away from rior surface of the diaphragm; and (3) the lateral surfaces the interstitial spaces perhaps as much as 10- fold. There- of the parietal pleura. Therefore, the pleural space—the fore, in patients with chronic mitral stenosis, pulmonary space between the parietal and visceral pleurae—is called capillary pressures of 40 to 45 mm Hg have been measured a potential space because it normally is so narrow
