Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


stenosis, pulmonary space between the parietal and visceral pleurae—is called capillary pressures of 40 to 45 mm Hg have been measured a potential space because it normally is so narrow that it without the development of lethal pulmonary edema. is not obviously a physical space. Rapidity of Death in Persons With Acute Pulmonary Edema. When the pulmonary capillary pressure rises even Negative Pressure in Pleural Fluid. A negative force is slightly above the safety factor level, lethal pulmonary ede- always required on the outside of the lungs to keep the ma can occur within hours, or even within 20 to 30 minutes lungs expanded. This force is provided by negative pres- if the capillary pressure rises 25 to 30 mm Hg above the sure in the normal pleural space. The basic cause of this safety factor level. Thus, in acute left- sided heart failure, in negative pressure is pumping of fluid from the space which the pulmonary capillary pressure occasionally does by the lymphatics, which is also the basis of the nega- rise to 50 mm Hg, death may ensue in less than 30 minutes tive pressure found in most tissue spaces of the body. as a result of acute pulmonary edema. Because the normal collapse tendency of the lungs is about −4 mm Hg, the pleural fluid pressure must al- FLUID IN THE PLEURAL CAVITY ways be at least as negative as −4 mm Hg to keep the lungs expanded. Actual measurements have shown When the lungs expand and contract during normal that the pressure is usually about –7 mm Hg, which is breathing, they slide back and forth within the pleural a few millimeters of mercury more negative than the cavity. To facilitate this movement, a thin layer of mucoid collapse pressure of the lungs. Thus, the negativity of fluid lies between the parietal and visceral pleurae. the pleural fluid pressure keeps the normal lungs pulled Figure 39- 9 shows the dynamics of fluid exchange against the parietal pleura of the chest cavity, except for in the pleural space. The pleural membrane is a porous, an extremely thin layer of mucoid fluid that acts as a mesenchymal, serous membrane through which small lubricant. 509 ruoh rep diulf amedE = noitamrof amede fo etaR gnul fo thgiew yrD UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration Pleural Effusion—Collection of Large Amounts of Free Guyton AC, Lindsey AW: Effect of elevated left atrial
