Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


laries, and veins. Compr Physiol 2:675, 2012. ling hypothesis. Microvasc Res 78:71, 2009. Zielinska- Krawczyk M, Krenke R, Grabczak EM, Light RW: Pleural Frise MC, Robbins PA: The pulmonary vasculature-- l essons from Tibetans manometry- historical background, rationale for use and methods and from rare diseases of oxygen sensing. Exp Physiol 100:1233, 2015. of measurement. Respir Med 136:21, 2018. 510 CHAPTER 4 0 Principles of Gas Exchange; Diffusion of Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Through the Respiratory Membrane After the alveoli are ventilated with fresh air, the next step ing on the surfaces of the respiratory passages and alveoli in respiration is diffusion of oxygen (O ) from the alveoli 2 is proportional to the summated force of impact of all the into the pulmonary blood and diffusion of carbon diox- molecules of that gas striking the surface at any given in- ide (CO ) in the opposite direction, out of the blood into 2 stant. This means that the pressure is directly proportional the alveoli. The process of diffusion is simply the random to the concentration of the gas molecules. motion of molecules in all directions through the respira- In respiratory physiology, one deals with mixtures of tory membrane and adjacent fluids. However, in respira- gases, mainly oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide. The rate tory physiology, we are concerned not only with the basic of diffusion of each of these gases is directly proportional mechanism by which diffusion occurs but also with the to the pressure caused by that gas alone, which is called the rate at which it occurs, which is a much more complex partial pressure of that gas. The concept of partial pressure issue, requiring a deeper understanding of the physics of can be explained as follows. Consider air, which has an approximate composition of diffusion and gas exchange. 79% nitrogen and 21% oxygen. The total pressure of this Physics of Gas Diffusion and Gas Partial Pressures mixture at sea level averages 760 mm Hg. It is clear from the preceding description of the molecular basis of pres- Molecular Basis of Gas Diffusion sure that each gas contributes to the total pressure in direct All the gases of concern in respiratory physiology are sim- proportion to its concentration. Therefore, 79% of the 760 ple molecules that are free to move among one another by mm Hg is caused by nitrogen (600 mm Hg) and 21% by diffusion.
