Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


concentration. Therefore, 79% of the 760 ple molecules that are free to move among one another by mm Hg is caused by nitrogen (600 mm Hg) and 21% by diffusion. This is also true of gases dissolved in the fluids O 2 (160 mm Hg). Thus, the partial pressure of nitrogen in and tissues of the body. the mixture is 600 mm Hg, and the partial pressure of O 2 For diffusion to occur, there must be a source of energy. is 160 mm Hg; the total pressure is 760 mm Hg, the sum This source of energy is provided by the kinetic motion of the individual partial pressures. The partial pressures of of the molecules. Except at absolute zero temperature, all individual gases in a mixture are designated by the symbols molecules of all matter are continually undergoing motion. Po 2, Pco 2, Pn 2, Phe, and so forth. For free molecules that are not physically attached to oth- Pressures of Gases Dissolved in Water and Tissues ers, this means linear movement at high velocity until they strike other molecules. They then bounce away in new di- Gases dissolved in water or in body tissues also exert pres- rections and continue moving until they strike other mol- sure because the dissolved gas molecules are moving ran- ecules again. In this way, the molecules move rapidly and domly and have kinetic energy. Furthermore, when the gas randomly among one another. dissolved in fluid encounters a surface, such as the mem- Net Diffusion of a Gas in One Direction—Effect of a brane of a cell, it exerts its own partial pressure in the same Concentration Gradient. If a gas chamber or solution has a way as a gas in the gas phase. The partial pressures of the high concentration of a particular gas at one end of the cham- separate dissolved gases are designated the same as the par- ber and a low concentration at the other end, as shown in tial pressures in the gas state—that is, Po 2, Pco 2, Pn 2, Phe, Figure 40- 1, net diffusion of the gas will occur from the high- and so forth. concentration area toward the low-c oncentration area. The Factors That Determine Partial Pressure of a Gas reason is obvious. There are far more molecules at end A of the Dissolved in a Fluid. The partial pressure of a gas in
