Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Determine Partial Pressure of a Gas reason is obvious. There are far more molecules at end A of the Dissolved in a Fluid. The partial pressure of a gas in a so- chamber to diffuse toward end B than there are molecules to lution is determined not only by its concentration but also diffuse in the opposite direction. Therefore, the rates of diffu- by the solubility coefficient of the gas. That is, some types sion in each of the two directions are proportionately different, of molecules, especially CO 2, are physically or chemically as demonstrated by the lengths of the arrows in the figure. attracted to water molecules, whereas other types of mol- ecules are repelled. When molecules are attracted, far more Gas Pressures in a Mixture of Gases—Partial Pressures of of them can be dissolved without building up excess par- Individual Gases tial pressure within the solution. Conversely, in the case of Pressure is caused by multiple impacts of moving mole- molecules that are repelled, high partial pressure will devel- cules against a surface. Therefore, the pressure of a gas act- op with fewer dissolved molecules. These relationships are 511 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration Dissolved gas molecules exert to escape through the surface is called the vapor pres- sure of the water. At normal body temperature, 37°C (98.6°F), this vapor pressure is 47 mm Hg. Therefore, once the gas mixture has become fully humidified—that is, once it is in equilibrium with the water—the partial pressure of the water vapor in the gas mixture is 47 mm Hg. This partial pressure, like the other partial pressures, is designated as Pho. 2 The vapor pressure of water depends entirely on the tem- perature of the water. The higher the temperature, the great- Figure 40- 1. Diffusion of oxygen from one end of a chamber to the other. The difference between the lengths of the arrows represents er the kinetic activity of the molecules and, therefore, the net diffusion. greater the likelihood that the water molecules will escape from the surface of the water into the gas phase. For example, the water vapor pressure at 0°C is 5 mm Hg, and at 100°C it expressed by the following formula, which is Henry’s law: is 760 mm Hg. The most important value to remember is the vapor pressure at body temperature, 47 mm Hg. This value Partial pressure=Concentration of dissolved gas appears
