Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Henry’s law: is 760 mm Hg. The most important value to remember is the vapor pressure at body temperature, 47 mm Hg. This value Partial pressure=Concentration of dissolved gas appears in many of our subsequent discussions. Solubility coefficient Pressure Difference Causes Net Diffusion of Gases Through Fluids When partial pressure is expressed in atmospheres (1 atmosphere [1 atm] pressure equals 760 mm Hg) and con- From the preceding discussion, it is clear that when the par- centration is expressed in volume of gas dissolved in each tial pressure of a gas is greater in one area than in another volume of water, the solubility coefficients for important area, there will be net diffusion from the high- pressure area respiratory gases at body temperature are the following: toward the low- pressure area. For example, returning to Figure 40- 1, one can readily see that the molecules in the Oxygen: 0.024 area of high pressure, because of their greater number, have a Carbon dioxide: 0.57 greater chance of moving randomly into the area of low pres- Carbon monoxide: 0.018 sure than do molecules attempting to go in the other direc- tion. However, some molecules do bounce randomly from Nitrogen: 0.012 the low- pressure area toward the high- pressure area. There- Helium: 0.008 fore, the net diffusion of gas from the area of high pressure to the area of low pressure is equal to the number of mol- From this list, one can see that CO is more than 20 2 ecules bouncing in this forward direction minus the number times as soluble as O . Therefore, the partial pressure of 2 bouncing in the opposite direction, which is proportional to CO for a given concentration is less than one-twentieth 2 the gas partial pressure difference between the two areas, (5%) of that exerted by O . 2 called simply the pressure difference for causing diffusion. Diffusion of Gases Between Gas Phase in Alveoli and Quantifying Net Rate of Diffusion in Fluids. In addition Dissolved Phase in Pulmonary Blood. The partial pressure of to the pressure difference, several other factors affect the each gas in the alveolar respiratory gas mixture tends to force rate of gas diffusion in a fluid: (1) the solubility of the gas in molecules of that gas into solution in the blood of the alveo- the fluid; (2) the cross- sectional area of the fluid; (3) the dis- lar
