Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the gas in molecules of that gas into solution in the blood of the alveo- the fluid; (2) the cross- sectional area of the fluid; (3) the dis- lar capillaries. Conversely, the molecules of the same gas that tance through which the gas must diffuse; (4) the molecular are already dissolved in the blood are bouncing randomly in weight of the gas; and (5) the temperature of the fluid. In the fluid of the blood, and some of these bouncing molecules the body, the temperature remains reasonably constant and escape back into the alveoli. The rate at which they escape usually need not be considered. is directly proportional to their partial pressure in the blood. The greater the solubility of the gas, the greater the num- But, in which direction will net diffusion of the gas oc- ber of molecules available to diffuse for any given partial cur? The answer is that net diffusion is determined by the pressure difference. The greater the cross- sectional area of difference between the two partial pressures. If the partial the diffusion pathway, the greater the total number of mol- pressure is greater in the gas phase in the alveoli, as is nor- ecules that diffuse. Conversely, the greater the distance the mally true for oxygen, then more molecules will diffuse into molecules must diffuse, the longer it will take the molecules the blood than in the other direction. Alternatively, if the to diffuse the entire distance. Finally, the greater the veloc- partial pressure of the gas is greater in the dissolved state in ity of kinetic movement of the molecules, which is inversely the blood, which is normally true for CO , then net diffu- 2 proportional to the square root of the molecular weight, the sion will occur toward the gas phase in the alveoli. greater the rate of diffusion of the gas. All these factors can Vapor Pressure of Water be expressed in a single formula, as follows: When nonhumidified air is breathed into the respiratory ΔP×A×S D∝ passageways, water immediately evaporates from the surfac- d×√MW es of these passages and humidifies the air. This results from the fact that water molecules, like different dissolved gas in which D is the diffusion rate, ΔP is the partial pres- molecules, are continually escaping from the water surface sure difference between the two ends of the diffusion path- into the gas phase.
