Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the preceding list. Figure 40- 2. Expiration of a gas from an alveolus with successive breaths. COMPOSITIONS OF ALVEOLAR AIR AND ATMOSPHERIC AIR ARE DIFFERENT the air dilutes the oxygen partial pressure at sea level from an average of 159 mm Hg in atmospheric air to 149 mm Alveolar air does not have the same concentrations of Hg in the humidified air, and it dilutes the nitrogen partial gases as atmospheric air (Table 40- 1). There are several pressure from 597 to 563 mm Hg. reasons for the differences. First, alveolar air is only par- Alveolar Air Is Slowly Renewed by tially replaced by atmospheric air with each breath. Sec- Atmospheric Air ond, O is constantly being absorbed into the pulmonary 2 blood from the alveolar air. Third, CO 2 is constantly dif- In Chapter 38, we pointed out that the average functional fusing from the pulmonary blood into the alveoli. And residual capacity of the lungs (the volume of air remain- fourth, dry atmospheric air that enters the respiratory ing in the lungs at the end of normal expiration) measures passages is humidified even before it reaches the alveoli. about 2300 ml in men. Yet only 350 ml of new air is brought into the alveoli with each normal inspiration, and this same Air Is Humidified in the Respiratory amount of old alveolar air is expired. Therefore, the volume Passages of alveolar air replaced by new atmospheric air with each Table 40- 1 shows that atmospheric air is composed almost breath is only one-seventh of the total, so multiple breaths entirely of nitrogen and O 2; it normally contains almost no are required to exchange most of the alveolar air. Figure 40- 2 CO 2 and little water vapor. However, as soon as the atmo- shows this slow rate of renewal of the alveolar air. In the first spheric air enters the respiratory passages, it is exposed to alveolus of the figure, excess gas is present in the alveoli, but the fluids that cover the respiratory surfaces. Even before the note that even at the end of 16 breaths, the excess gas still has air enters the alveoli, it becomes almost totally humidified. not been completely removed from the alveoli. The partial pressure of water vapor at a normal body Figure 40- 3 demonstrates graphically the rate at which temperature of 37°C is 47 mm Hg, which is
