Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


capillar- ies and small blood vessels in frog lung. Respir Physiol 7:150, 1969.) alveolar air is expired at the end of expiration. Therefore, the method of collecting alveolar air for study is simply to collect a sample of the last portion of the expired air after forceful expiration has removed all the dead space air. Normal expired air, containing both dead space air and alveolar air, has gas concentrations and partial pressures ap- proximately as shown in Table 40- 1 (i.e., concentrations be- Figure 40- 7. Respiratory unit. tween those of alveolar air and humidified atmospheric air). Expired Air Is a Combination of Dead Space Air and DIFFUSION OF GASES THROUGH THE Alveolar Air RESPIRATORY MEMBRANE The overall composition of expired air is determined by the following: (1) the amount of the expired air that is dead Respiratory Unit. Figure 40-7 shows the respira- space air; and (2) the amount that is alveolar air. Figure tory unit (also called respiratory lobule), which is 40- 6 shows the progressive changes in O 2 and CO 2 partial composed of a respiratory bronchiole, alveolar pressures in the expired air during the course of expiration. ducts, atria, and alveoli. There are about 300 mil- The first portion of this air, the dead space air from the res- lion alveoli in the two lungs, and each alveolus has piratory passageways, is typical humidified air, as shown an average diameter of about 0.2 millimeter. The in Table 40- 1. Then, progressively more and more alveo- alveolar walls are extremely thin, and between the lar air becomes mixed with the dead space air until all the alveoli is an almost solid network of interconnect- dead space air has finally been washed out, and nothing but ing capillaries, shown in Figure 40-8 . Because of 515 OC dna O fo serusserP 2 2 )gHmm( UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration Epithelial 5. A capillary basement membrane that in many places Alveolar basement fuses with the alveolar epithelial basement membrane epithelium membrane 6. The capillary endothelial membrane Despite the large number of layers, the overall thick- ness of the respiratory membrane in some areas is as little as 0.2 micrometer and averages about 0.6 microm- eter, except where there are cell nuclei. From histological Fluid and studies, it has been estimated that the total surface area surfactant layer of the respiratory membrane is about 70 square meters in Capillary
