Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are cell nuclei. From histological Fluid and studies, it has been estimated that the total surface area surfactant layer of the respiratory membrane is about 70 square meters in Capillary healthy men, which is equivalent to the floor area of a 25 × 30- foot room. The total quantity of blood in the capillar- Alveolus ies of the lungs at any given instant is 60 to 140 ml. Now, imagine this small amount of blood spread over the entire Diffusion O 2 surface of a 25 × 30- foot floor, and it is easy to understand the rapidity of the respiratory exchange of O and CO . 2 2 Diffusion CO The average diameter of the pulmonary capillaries is 2 only about 5 micrometers, which means that red blood cells must squeeze through them. The red blood cell membrane usually touches the capillary wall, so O and 2 CO need not pass through significant amounts of plasma 2 as they diffuse between the alveolus and red blood cell. This, too, increases the rapidity of diffusion. Red blood cell Factors Affecting Rate of Gas Diffusion Through the Respiratory Membrane Referring to the earlier discussion of diffusion of gases in Capillary endothelium water, one can apply the same principles to diffusion of Interstitial space Capillary basement membrane gases through the respiratory membrane. Thus, the fac- tors that determine how rapidly a gas will pass through Figure 40- 9. Ultrastructure of the alveolar respiratory membrane, shown in cross section. the membrane are the following: (1) the thickness of the membrane; (2) the surface area of the membrane; (3) the the extensiveness of the capillary plexus, the flow diffusion coefficient of the gas in the substance of the of blood in the alveolar wall has been described as membrane; and (4) the partial pressure difference of the a sheet of flowing blood. Thus, it is obvious that gas between the two sides of the membrane. the alveolar gases are in very close proximity to the The thickness of the respiratory membrane occasionally blood of the pulmonary capillaries. Furthermore, increases—for example, as a result of edema fluid in the gas exchange between the alveolar air and pulmo- interstitial space of the membrane and in the alveoli—so nary blood occurs through the membranes of all the the respiratory gases must then diffuse not only through terminal portions of the lungs, not merely in the al- the
