Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


alveoli—so nary blood occurs through the membranes of all the the respiratory gases must then diffuse not only through terminal portions of the lungs, not merely in the al- the membrane but also through this fluid. Also, some pul- veoli. All these membranes are collectively known monary diseases cause fibrosis of the lungs, which can as the respiratory membrane, also called the pulmo- increase the thickness of some portions of the respira- nary membrane. tory membrane. Because the rate of diffusion through the membrane is inversely proportional to the thickness of the Respiratory Membrane. Figure 40-9 shows the ultra- membrane, any factor that increases the thickness to more structure of the respiratory membrane drawn in cross than two to three times normal can interfere significantly section on the left and a red blood cell on the right. It with normal respiratory exchange of gases. also shows diffusion of O 2 from the alveolus into the red The surface area of the respiratory membrane can blood cell and diffusion of CO 2 in the opposite direc- be greatly decreased by many conditions. For example, tion. Note the following different layers of the respiratory removal of an entire lung decreases the total surface area membrane: to half- normal. Also, in emphysema, many of the alveoli 1. A layer of fluid containing surfactant that lines the al- coalesce, with dissolution of many alveolar walls. There- veolus and reduces the surface tension of alveolar fluid fore, the new alveolar chambers are much larger than the 2. The alveolar epithelium, composed of thin epithelial original alveoli, but the total surface area of the respira- cells tory membrane is often decreased as much as fivefold 3. An epithelial basement membrane because of loss of the alveolar walls. When the total sur- 4. A thin interstitial space between the alveolar epi- face area is decreased to about one- third to one-f ourth thelium and capillary membrane normal, exchange of gases through the membrane is 516 Chapter 40 Principles of Gas Exchange; Diffusion of Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Through the Respiratory Membrane substantially impeded, even under resting conditions, and 1300 Resting during competitive sports and other strenuous exercise, 1200 Exercise even the slightest decrease in surface area of the lungs can 1100 be a serious detriment to respiratory exchange of gases. The diffusion coefficient for transfer of each gas through 1000 the respiratory membrane depends on the gas’s
