Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the lungs can 1100 be a serious detriment to respiratory exchange of gases. The diffusion coefficient for transfer of each gas through 1000 the respiratory membrane depends on the gas’s solubility 900 in the membrane and, inversely, on the square root of the gas’s molecular weight. The rate of diffusion in the respira- 800 tory membrane is almost exactly the same as that in water, 700 for reasons explained earlier. Therefore, for a given pres- sure difference, CO diffuses about 20 times as rapidly as 600 2 O . Oxygen diffuses about twice as rapidly as nitrogen. 2 500 The pressure difference across the respiratory membrane is the difference between the partial pressure of the gas in 400 the alveoli and the partial pressure of the gas in the pul- 300 monary capillary blood. Therefore, the difference between these two pressures is a measure of the net tendency for the 200 gas molecules to move through the membrane. 100 When the partial pressure of a gas in the alveoli is 0 greater than the pressure of the gas in the blood, as is true for O 2, net diffusion from the alveoli into the blood occurs. CO O 2 CO 2 When the pressure of the gas in the blood is greater than Figure 40- 10. Diffusing capacities for carbon monoxide, oxygen, the partial pressure in the alveoli, as is true for CO , net and carbon dioxide in the normal lungs under resting conditions and 2 diffusion from the blood into the alveoli occurs. during exercise. Diffusing Capacity of the Respiratory blood, called the ventilation- perfusion ratio, explained later Membrane in this chapter. Therefore, during exercise, oxygenation of the blood is increased not only by increased alveolar venti- The ability of the respiratory membrane to exchange a gas lation but also by greater diffusing capacity of the respira- between the alveoli and pulmonary blood is expressed in tory membrane for transporting O into the blood. quantitative terms by the respiratory membrane’s diffusing 2 capacity, which is defined as the volume of a gas that will Diffusing Capacity for Carbon Dioxide. The diffusing diffuse through the membrane each minute for a partial capacity for CO has never been measured because CO pressure difference of 1 mm Hg. All the factors discussed 2 2 diffuses through the respiratory membrane so rapidly that earlier that affect diffusion through the respiratory mem- the
