Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


CO pressure difference of 1 mm Hg. All the factors discussed 2 2 diffuses through the respiratory membrane so rapidly that earlier that affect diffusion through the respiratory mem- the average Pco in the pulmonary blood is not very dif- brane can affect this diffusing capacity. 2 ferent from the Pco in the alveoli—the average difference 2 Diffusing Capacity for Oxygen. In the average young is less than 1 mm Hg. With currently available techniques, this difference is too small to be measured. man, the diffusing capacity for O under resting conditions 2 Nevertheless, measurements of diffusion of other gases averages 21 ml/min per mm Hg. In functional terms, what have shown that the diffusing capacity varies directly with does this mean? The mean O pressure difference across 2 the diffusion coefficient of the particular gas. Because the the respiratory membrane during normal quiet breathing is diffusion coefficient of CO is slightly more than 20 times about 11 mm Hg. Multiplying this pressure by the diffusing 2 that of O , one would expect a diffusing capacity for CO capacity (11 × 21) gives a total of about 230 ml of oxygen 2 2 under resting conditions of about 400 to 450 ml/min per diffusing through the respiratory membrane each minute, mm Hg and during exercise of about 1200 to 1300 ml/ which is equal to the rate at which the resting body uses O . 2 min per mm Hg. Figure 40- 10 compares the measured Increased Oxygen Diffusing Capacity During Exercise. or calculated diffusing capacities of carbon monoxide, O 2, and CO at rest and during exercise, showing the extreme During strenuous exercise or other conditions that greatly 2 diffusing capacity of CO and the effect of exercise on the increase pulmonary blood flow and alveolar ventilation, the 2 diffusing capacity of each of these gases. diffusing capacity for O increases to about three times the 2 diffusing capacity under resting conditions. This increase Measurement of Diffusing Capacity—Carbon Monox- is caused by several factors, including the following: (1) ide Method. The O diffusing capacity can be calculated opening up of many previously dormant pulmonary capil- 2 from measurements of the following: (1) alveolar Po ; (2) laries or extra dilation of already open capillaries, thereby 2 Po in the pulmonary capillary blood; and (3) the rate of increasing the surface area of the blood into which the O
