Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


diffusing capacity accurately. To convert CO diffusing capacity to O 2 diffusing capac- cause these gases diffuse between the blood and alveolar air. ity, the value is multiplied by a factor of 1.23 because the Because the blood that perfuses the capillaries is venous blood diffusion coefficient for O 2 is 1.23 times that for CO. Thus, returning to the lungs from the systemic circulation, it is the the average diffusing capacity for CO in healthy young men gases in this blood with which the alveolar gases equilibrate. at rest is 17 ml/min per mm Hg, and the diffusing capacity In Chapter 41, we describe how the normal venous blood (V) for O 2 is 1.23 times this, or 21 ml/min per mm Hg. has a Po 2 of 40 mm Hg and a Pco 2 of 45 mm Hg. Therefore, these are also the normal partial pressures of these two gases Effect of Ventilation-P erfusion Ratio on Alveolar Gas in alveoli that have blood flow but no ventilation. Concentration Alveolar Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Partial Pressures Earlier in this chapter, we learned that two factors deter- When V˙ A/Q˙ Equals Infinity. The effect on the alveolar gas mine the Po 2 and Pco 2 in the alveoli: (1) the rate of alveo- partial pressures when V˙ A/Q˙ equals infinity is entirely dif- lar ventilation; and (2) the rate of transfer of O 2 and CO 2 ferent from the effect when V˙ A/Q˙ equals zero because now through the respiratory membrane. This discussion made there is no capillary blood flow to carry O away or to bring 2 the assumption that all the alveoli are ventilated equally, CO to the alveoli. Therefore, instead of the alveolar gases 2 and that blood flow through the alveolar capillaries is the coming to equilibrium with the venous blood, the alveolar same for each alveolus. However, even normally to some air becomes equal to the humidified inspired air. That is, extent, and especially in many lung diseases, some areas the air that is inspired loses no O to the blood and gains 2 of the lungs are well ventilated but have almost no blood no CO from the blood. Furthermore, because normal 2 flow, whereas other areas may have excellent blood flow inspired and humidified air has a Po of 149 mm Hg and 2 but little or no ventilation. In either of
