Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


flow, whereas other areas may have excellent blood flow inspired and humidified air has a Po of 149 mm Hg and 2 but little or no ventilation. In either of these conditions, a Pco of 0 mm Hg, these will be the partial pressures of 2 gas exchange through the respiratory membrane is seri- these two gases in the alveoli. ously impaired, and the person may suffer severe respira- Gas Exchange and Alveolar Partial Pressures When tory distress, despite normal total ventilation and normal V˙ A/Q˙ Is Normal. When there is both normal alveolar total pulmonary blood flow, but with the ventilation and ventilation and normal alveolar capillary blood flow blood flow going to different parts of the lungs. Therefore, (normal alveolar perfusion), exchange of O and CO 2 2 a highly quantitative concept has been developed to help us through the respiratory membrane is nearly optimal, understand respiratory exchange when there is imbalance and alveolar Po is normally at a level of 104 mm Hg, 2 between alveolar ventilation and alveolar blood flow. This which lies between that of the inspired air (149 mm Hg) concept is called the ventilation- perfusion ratio. and that of venous blood (40 mm Hg). Likewise, alveolar In quantitative terms, the ventilation- perfusion ratio is ex- Pco lies between two extremes; it is normally 40 mm ˙ ˙ ˙ 2 pressed as VA/Q. When VA (alveolar ventilation) is normal Hg, in contrast to 45 mm Hg in venous blood and 0 mm ˙ for a given alveolus, and Q (blood flow) is also normal for the Hg in inspired air. Thus, under normal conditions, the ˙ ˙ same alveolus, the ventilation- perfusion r ˙atio (VA/Q) is also alveolar air Po 2 averages 104 mm Hg and the Pco 2 aver- said to be normal. When the ventilation (VA) is zero, yet there ages 40 mm Hg. ˙ ˙ ˙ is still perfusion (Q) of the alveolus, the VA/Q is zero ˙. Or, at Po - Pco , V˙ /Q˙ Diagram the other extreme, when there is adequate ventilation (VA) but 2 2 A ˙ ˙ ˙ zero perfusion (Q), the ratio VA/Q is infinity. At a ratio of ei- The concepts presented in the preceding sections are ther zero or infinity, there is no exchange of gases through the shown in graphic form in Figure 40- 11, called the Po 2- respiratory membrane of
