Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


preceding sections are ther zero or infinity, there is no exchange of gases through the shown in graphic form in Figure 40- 11, called the Po 2- respiratory membrane of the affected alveoli. Therefore, let us Pco 2, V˙ A/Q˙ diagram. The curve in the diagram represents explain the respiratory consequences of these two extremes. all possible Po and Pco combinations between the limits 2 2 Alveolar Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Partial Pres- ˙ ˙ ˙ ˙ sures When V˙ A/Q˙ Equals Zero. When V˙ A/Q˙ is equal to o pf r eV sA su/Q re se iq nu ta hls e z ve er no o a un sd b V loA o/ dQ a re eq nu oal rs m in afi l, n ai nty d w thh ee pn e t rh se o ng a iss zero—that is, without any alveolar ventilation—the air in the breathing air at sea level pressure. Thus, point V˙ A/Q˙ is the alveolus comes to equilibrium with the blood O 2 and CO 2 be- plot of Po 2 and Pco 2 when V˙ A/Q˙ equals zero. At this point, 518 )gHmm( OCP 2 Chapter 40 Principles of Gas Exchange; Diffusion of Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Through the Respiratory Membrane _ the Po is 40 mm Hg, and the Pco is 45 mm Hg, which are arterial blood, and Pe is the average partial pressure of 2 2 co2 the values in normal venous blood. CO in the entire expired air. 2 ˙ ˙ At the other end of the curve, when VA/Q equals infin- When the physiological dead space is great, much of the ity, point I represents inspired air, showing Po to be 149 work of ventilation is wasted effort because so much of the 2 mm Hg while Pco is zero. Also plotted on the curve is ventilating air never reaches the blood. 2 ˙ ˙ the point that represents normal alveolar air when VA/Q Abnormalities of Ventilation-P erfusion Ratio is normal. At this point, Po is 104 mm Hg, and Pco is 40 2 2 mm Hg. Abnormal V˙ A/Q˙ in Upper and Lower Normal Lung. In Concept of Physiological Shunt (When V˙ /Q˙ Is Below a healthy person in the upright position, both pulmonary A Normal) capillary blood flow and alveolar ventilation are consider- ably less in the upper part of the lung than in
