Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


a healthy person in the upright position, both pulmonary A Normal) capillary blood flow and alveolar ventilation are consider- ably less in the upper part of the lung than in the lower ˙ ˙ Whenever VA/Q is below normal, there is inadequate ven- part; however, the decrease of blood flow is considerably tilation to provide the O 2 needed to fully oxygenate the greater than the decrease in ventilation. Therefore, at the blood flowing through the alveolar capillaries. Therefore, top of the lung, V˙ A/Q˙ is as much as 2.5 times as great as the a certain fraction of the venous blood passing through the ideal value, which causes a moderate degree of physiologi- pulmonary capillaries does not become oxygenated. This cal dead space in this area of the lung. fraction is called shunted blood. Also, some additional At the other extreme, at the bottom of the lung, there blood flows through bronchial vessels rather than through is slightly too little ventilation in relation to blood flow, alveolar capillaries, normally about 2% of the cardiac out- with V˙ A/Q˙ as low as 0.6 times the ideal value. In this area, put; this, too, is unoxygenated, shunted blood. a small fraction of the blood fails to become normally oxy- The total quantitative amount of shunted blood per min- genated, and this represents a physiological shunt. ute is called the physiological shunt. This physiological shunt In both extremes, inequalities of ventilation and perfu- is measured in clinical pulmonary function laboratories by sion slightly decrease the lung’s effectiveness for exchang- analyzing the concentration of O 2 in both mixed venous ing O 2 and CO 2. However, during exercise, blood flow to blood and arterial blood, along with simultaneous measure- the upper part of the lung increases markedly, so far less ment of cardiac output. From these values, the physiological physiological dead space occurs, and the effectiveness of shunt can be calculated by the following equation: gas exchange now approaches optimum. Q˙ PS =Ci O2−Ca O2 Abnormal V˙ A/Q˙ in Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease Q˙ T Ci O2−Cv O2 Most people who smoke for many years develop various degrees of bronchial obstruction; in many of them, this ˙ in wh ˙ich Q PS is the physiological shunt blood flow per condition eventually becomes so severe that serious al- minute, Q T is cardiac output per minute, Ci O2 is the concen- veolar air
