Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is the physiological shunt blood flow per condition eventually becomes so severe that serious al- minute, Q T is cardiac output per minute, Ci O2 is the concen- veolar air trapping develops, with resultant emphysema. tration of oxygen in the arterial blood if there is an “ideal” The emphysema, in turn, causes many of the alveolar walls ventilation- perfusion ratio, Ca O2 is the me _asured concen- to be destroyed. Thus, t ˙wo ˙abnormalities occur in smok- tration of oxygen in the arterial blood, and Cv O2 is the meas- ers to cause abnormal VA/Q. First, because many of the ured concentration of oxygen in the mixed venous blood. small bronchioles are obstructed, the alveoli beyond the ˙ ˙ The greater the physiological shunt, the greater the obstructions are unventilated, causing a VA/Q that ap- amount of blood that fails to be oxygenated as it passes proaches zero. Second, in the areas of the lung where the through the lungs. alveolar walls have mainly been destroyed but there is Concept of Physiological Dead Space When V˙ /Q˙ still alveolar ventilation, most of the ventilation is wasted A because of inadequate blood flow to transport the blood Greater Than Normal gases. When ventilation of some of the alveoli is great but alveo- Thus, in chronic obstructive lung disease, some areas of lar blood flow is low, there is far more available oxygen in the lung exhibit serious physiological shunt, and other areas the alveoli than can be transported away from the alveoli exhibit serious physiological dead space. Both conditions by the flowing blood. Thus, the ventilation of these alve- tremendously decrease the effectiveness of the lungs as gas oli is said to be wasted. The ventilation of the anatomical exchange organs, sometimes reducing their effectiveness to dead space areas of the respiratory passageways is also as little as one- tenth normal. In fact, this condition is the wasted. The sum of these two types of wasted ventila- most prevalent cause of pulmonary disability today. tion is called the physiological dead space. This space is measured in the clinical pulmonary function laboratory Bibliography by making appropriate blood and expiratory gas meas- urements and by using the following equation, called the Clark A, Tawhai M: Pulmonary vascular dynamics. Compr Physiol Bohr equation: 9:1081, 2019. V˙ Dphys =Pa CO2−Pe CO2 De el rB au no cn e o in M pG at, i eA
