Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


perfusion, and gas exchange—the Va/Q the evolution of the pulmonary circulation. Am J Physiol Regul In- concept. In: Fenn WO, Rahn H (eds): Handbook of Physiology. Sec tegr Comp Physiol 304:R171, 2013. 3, Vol 1. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins, 1964, p 125. 520 CHAPTER 4 1 Transport of Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide in Blood and Tissue Fluids Once oxygen (O ) has diffused from the alveoli into the diffusion of O between alveolar air and pulmonary 2 2 pulmonary blood, it is transported to the tissue capillaries blood. The Po of the gaseous O in the alveolus aver- 2 2 almost entirely in combination with hemoglobin. The pres- ages 104 mm Hg, whereas the Po of the venous blood 2 ence of hemoglobin in the red blood cells allows the blood entering the pulmonary capillary at its arterial end to transport 30 to 100 times as much O as could be trans- averages only 40 mm Hg because a large amount 2 ported in the form of dissolved O in the water of the blood. of O was removed from this blood as it passed through 2 2 In the body’s tissue cells, O reacts with various food- the peripheral tissues. Therefore, the initial pressure 2 stuffs to form large quantities of carbon dioxide (CO ). difference that causes O to diffuse into the p ulmonary 2 2 This CO enters the tissue capillaries and is transported capillary is 104 − 40 mm Hg, or 64 mm Hg. In the 2 back to the lungs. Carbon dioxide, like O , also combines graph at the bottom of the figure, the curve shows the 2 with chemical substances in the blood that increase CO rapid rise in blood Po as the blood passes through 2 2 transport 15- to 20- fold. the capillary; the blood Po rises almost to that of the 2 This chapter presents the physical and chemical prin- alveolar air by the time the blood has moved a third of ciples of O and CO transport in the blood and tissue the distance through the capillary, becoming almost 104 2 2 fluids qualitatively and quantitatively. mm Hg. Uptake of Oxygen by the Pulmonary Blood During TRANSPORT OF OXYGEN FROM THE Exercise. During strenuous exercise, a person’s body LUNGS TO THE BODY TISSUES may require as much as 20 times the normal amount In Chapter 40, we pointed out
