Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


FROM THE Exercise. During strenuous exercise, a person’s body LUNGS TO THE BODY TISSUES may require as much as 20 times the normal amount In Chapter 40, we pointed out that gases can move from of oxygen. Also, because of increased cardiac output one point to another by diffusion, and that the cause of during exercise, the time that the blood remains in the this movement is always a partial pressure difference from pulmonary capillary may be reduced to less than one- the first point to the next. Thus, O diffuses from the alve- half normal. Yet, because of the great safety factor for 2 oli into the pulmonary capillary blood because the oxygen diffusion of O 2 through the pulmonary membrane, the partial pressure (Po 2) in the alveoli is greater than the Po 2 blood still becomes almost saturated with O 2 by the time in the pulmonary capillary blood. In the other tissues of it leaves the pulmonary capillaries. This can be explained the body, a higher Po in the capillary blood than in the as follows. 2 tissues causes O to diffuse into the surrounding cells. First, in Chapter 40, we pointed out that the diffusing 2 Conversely, when O 2 is metabolized in the cells to capacity for O 2 increases almost threefold during exer- form CO , the intracellular CO partial pressure (Pco ) cise. This results mainly from increased surface area of 2 2 2 rises, causing CO to diffuse into the tissue capillaries. capillaries participating in the diffusion and also from a 2 After blood flows to the lungs, the CO diffuses out of the more nearly ideal ventilation- perfusion ratio in the upper 2 blood into the alveoli because the Pco in the pulmonary part of the lungs. 2 capillary blood is greater than that in the alveoli. Thus, the Second, note in the curve of Figure 41-1 that under transport of O and CO by the blood depends on both nonexercising conditions, the blood becomes almost 2 2 diffusion and the flow of blood. We now consider quanti- saturated with O 2 by the time it has passed through tatively the factors responsible for these effects. one-third of the pulmonary capillary, and little additional O normally enters the blood during the latter two-thirds DIFFUSION OF OXYGEN FROM THE 2 of its transit. That is, the blood normally stays in the
