Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


its Po in the capillaries is still 95 mm Hg. Yet, as shown 0 2 in Figure 41-3, the Po 2 in the interstitial fluid that sur- Figure 41-2 Changes in Po2 in the pulmonary capillary blood, sys- rounds the tissue cells averages only 40 mm Hg. Thus, temic arterial blood, and systemic capillary blood demonstrating the there is a large initial pressure difference that causes O to effect of venous admixture. 2 diffuse rapidly from the capillary blood into the tissues— so rapidly that the capillary Po falls almost to equal the TRANSPORT OF OXYGEN IN ARTERIAL 2 40- mm Hg pressure in the interstitium. Therefore, the BLOOD Po of the blood leaving the tissue capillaries and entering 2 About 98% of the blood that enters the left atrium from the systemic veins is also about 40 mm Hg. the lungs has just passed through the alveolar capillaries and has become oxygenated up to a Po 2 of about 104 Increasing Blood Flow Raises Interstitial Fluid Po 2. If the mm Hg. Another 2% of the blood has passed from the blood flow through a particular tissue is increased, greater aorta through the bronchial circulation, which supplies quantities of O are transported into the tissue, and the tissue 2 mainly the deep tissues of the lungs and is not exposed Po becomes correspondingly higher. This effect is shown in 2 to lung air. This blood flow is called shunt flow, meaning Figure 41-4. Note that an increase in flow to 400% of normal that blood is shunted past the gas exchange areas. On increases the Po from 40 mm Hg (at point A in the figure) 2 leaving the lungs, the Po of the shunt blood is approxi- to 66 mm Hg (at point B). However, the upper limit to which 2 mately that of normal systemic venous blood—about 40 the Po can rise, even with maximal blood flow, is 95 mm 2 mm Hg. When this blood combines in the pulmonary Hg because this is the O pressure in the arterial blood. Con- 2 veins with the oxygenated blood from the alveolar capil- versely, if blood flow through the tissue decreases, the tissue laries, this so- called venous admixture of blood causes Po also decreases, as shown at point C. 2 the Po of the blood entering the left heart and pumped 2 into the aorta to fall
