Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


many cases, there equilibrium with the interstitial Pco 2 of 45 mm Hg. is considerable physical distance between the capillaries 3. Pco 2 of the blood entering the pulmonary capillar- and cells. Therefore, the normal intracellular Po 2 ranges ies at the arterial end, 45 mm Hg; Pco 2 of the alveo- from as low as 5 mm Hg to as high as 40 mm Hg, averag- lar air, 40 mm Hg. Thus, only a 5 m m Hg pressure ing (by direct measurement in experimental animals) 23 difference causes all the required CO 2 diffusion out mm Hg. Because only 1 to 3 mm Hg of O pressure is nor- of the pulmonary capillaries into the alveoli. Fur- 2 mally required for full support of the chemical processes thermore, as shown in Figure 41-6, the Pco 2 of the that use oxygen in the cell, even this low intracellular Po pulmonary capillary blood falls to almost exactly 2 of 23 mm Hg is more than adequate and provides a large equal the alveolar Pco 2 of 40 mm Hg before it has safety factor. passed more than about one-third of the distance through the capillaries. This is the same effect that DIFFUSION OF CO FROM PERIPHERAL 2 was observed earlier for O diffusion, except that it TISSUE CELLS INTO CAPILLARIES AND 2 is in the opposite direction. FROM PULMONARY CAPILLARIES INTO ALVEOLI Effect of Tissue Metabolism and Tissue Blood Flow When O is used by the cells, virtually all of it becomes Rate on Interstitial Pco 2. Tissue capillary blood flow and 2 CO 2, and this transformation increases the intracellular tissue metabolism affect the Pco 2 in ways exactly oppo- Pco 2; because of this elevated tissue cell Pco 2, CO 2 dif- site to their effect on tissue Po 2. Figure 41-7 shows these fuses from the cells into the capillaries and is then carried effects, as follows: by the blood to the lungs. In the lungs, it diffuses from the 1. A decrease in blood flow from normal (point A) to pulmonary capillaries into the alveoli and is expired. one-q uarter normal (point B) increases peripheral tis- Thus, at each point in the gas transport chain, CO 2 sue Pco 2 from the normal value of 45 mm Hg to an diffuses in the direction exactly opposite to the diffu- elevated level of 60 mm Hg.
