Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Changes 2 delivered in each volume of blood that passes through Markedly, the Buffer Effect of Hemoglobin Still Main- the tissues. Keep in mind that the cardiac output can in- tains Almost Constant Tissue Po 2. The normal Po 2 crease to six to seven times normal in well- trained mara- in the alveoli is about 104 mm Hg, but as one ascends thon runners. Thus, multiplying the increase in cardiac a mountain or ascends in an airplane, the Po can easily 2 output (6- to 7-fold) by the increase in O transport in fall to less than half this amount. Alternatively, when one 2 each volume of blood (3-fold) gives a 20-f old increase in enters areas of compressed air, such as deep in the sea or O transport to the tissues. We will see later in the chap- in pressurized chambers, the Po may rise to 10 times this 2 2 ter that several other factors facilitate delivery of O into level. Even so, the tissue Po changes little. 2 2 muscles during exercise, so muscle tissue Po often falls It can be seen from the oxygen-h emoglobin dissociation 2 just slightly below normal, even during very strenuous curve in Figure 41-8 that when the alveolar Po 2 is decreased exercise. to as low as 60 mm Hg, the arterial hemoglobin is still 89% saturated with O —only 8% below the normal saturation of 2 Utilization Coefficient. The percentage of the blood that 97%. Furthermore, the tissues still remove about 5 ml of O 2 gives up its O as it passes through the tissue capillaries from each 100 ml of blood passing through the tissues. To 2 is called the utilization coefficient. The normal value for remove this O , the Po of the venous blood falls to 35 mm 2 2 this is about 25%, as is evident from the preceding discus- Hg—only 5 mm Hg below the normal value of 40 mm Hg. sion—that is, 25% of the oxygenated hemoglobin gives its Thus, the tissue Po hardly changes, despite the marked fall 2 O to the tissues. During strenuous exercise, the utiliza- in alveolar Po from 104 to 60 mm Hg. 2 2 tion coefficient in the entire body can increase to 75% to Conversely, when the alveolar Po rises as high as 500 2 85%. In local tissue areas where blood flow is extremely
