Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the entire body can increase to 75% to Conversely, when the alveolar Po rises as high as 500 2 85%. In local tissue areas where blood flow is extremely mm Hg, the maximum O saturation of hemoglobin can 2 slow or the metabolic rate is very high, utilization coef- never rise above 100%, which is only 3% above the normal ficients approaching 100% have been recorded—that is, level of 97%. Only a small amount of additional O dis- 2 essentially all the O is given to the tissues. solves in the fluid of the blood, as will be discussed subse- 2 quently. Then, when the blood passes through the tissue Hemoglobin “Buffers” Tissue Po 2 capillaries and loses several milliliters of O to the tissues, 2 Although hemoglobin is necessary for the transport of O this reduces the Po of the capillary blood to a value only 2 2 to the tissues, it performs another function essential to a few milliliters higher than the normal 40 mm Hg. Con- life. This is its function as a tissue oxygen buffer system. sequently, the level of alveolar O may vary greatly—from 2 That is, the hemoglobin in the blood is mainly respon- 60 to more than 500 mm Hg Po —and still the Po in 2 2 sible for stabilizing the Po in the tissues, which can be the peripheral tissues does not vary more than a few mil- 2 explained as follows. liliters from normal, demonstrating beautifully the tissue “oxygen buffer” function of the blood hemoglobin system. Hemoglobin Helps Maintain Nearly Constant Po 2 in the Tissues. Under basal conditions, the tissues re- Factors That Shift the Oxygen- quire about 5 ml of O from each 100 ml of blood pass- 2 Hemoglobin Dissociation Curve—Their ing through the tissue capillaries. Referring to the O - 2 Importance for Oxygen Transport hemoglobin dissociation curve in Figure 41-9, note that for the normal 5 ml of O 2 to be released per 100 ml of The O 2-h emoglobin dissociation curves of Figures 41-8 blood flow, the Po must fall to about 40 mm Hg. There- and 41- 9 are for normal average blood. However, several 2 fore, the tissue Po normally cannot rise above this 40 factors can displace the dissociation curve in one direction 2 mm Hg level because, if it did, the amount of O needed or the other,
