Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(4) Increased BPG Rightward Shift of the Oxygen- Hemoglobin Dissociation Curve During Exercise 0 10 203040506070 80 90100110120130140 During exercise, several factors shift the dissociation curve Pressure of oxygen in blood (PO2) (mmHg) considerably to the right, thus delivering extra amounts of O to the active, exercising muscle fibers. The exercising Figure 41-10 Shift of the oxygen- hemoglobin dissociation curve to 2 the right caused by an increase in H+ concentration (decrease in pH). muscles, in turn, release large quantities of CO 2; this and BPG, 2,3- Biphosphoglycerate. several other acids released by the muscles increase the H+ concentration in the muscle capillary blood. In addition, the temperature of the muscle often rises 2° to 3°C, which 2,3-b iphosphoglycerate (BPG), a metabolically important can increase O delivery to the muscle fibers even more. All 2 phosphate compound present in the blood in different con- these factors act together to shift the oxygen-h emoglobin centrations under different metabolic conditions. dissociation curve of the muscle capillary blood consider- ably to the right. This rightward shift of the curve forces O 2 Increased Delivery of Oxygen to Tissues to be released from blood hemoglobin to the muscle at Po 2 When CO and H+ Shift the Oxygen- levels as great as 40 mm Hg, even when 70% of the O has 2 2 Hemoglobin Dissociation Curve—the already been removed from the hemoglobin. Then, in the Bohr Effect lungs, the shift occurs in the opposite direction, allowing extra amounts of O to be picked up from alveoli. A shift of the oxygen- hemoglobin dissociation curve to 2 the right in response to increases in blood CO and H+ 2 METABOLIC USE OF OXYGEN BY CELLS levels has a significant effect by enhancing the release of O from the blood in the tissues and enhancing oxy- 2 Effect of Intracellular Po on Oxygen Usage Rate. genation of the blood in the lungs. This is called the Bohr 2 Only a minute level of O pressure is required in the cells effect, which can be explained as follows. As the blood 2 for normal intracellular chemical reactions to take place. passes through the tissues, CO diffuses from tissue cells 2 The reason for this phenomenon is that the respiratory into the blood. This diffusion increases the blood Pco , 2 enzyme systems of the cell, discussed in Chapter 68, have which in turn raises blood H
