Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that the respiratory into the blood. This diffusion increases the blood Pco , 2 enzyme systems of the cell, discussed in Chapter 68, have which in turn raises blood H CO (carbonic acid) and 2 3 been configured so that when the cellular Po is more than H+ concentration. These effects shift the O - hemoglobin 2 2 1 mm Hg, O availability is no longer a limiting factor in dissociation curve to the right and downward, as shown 2 the rates of the chemical reactions. Instead, the main lim- in Figure 41-10, forcing O 2 away from the hemoglobin iting factor is the concentration of adenosine diphosphate and therefore delivering increased amounts of O to the 2 (ADP) in the cells. This effect is demonstrated in Figure tissues. 41-11, which shows the relationship between intracellu- Exactly the opposite effects occur in the lungs, where lar Po and the O usage rate at different concentrations CO diffuses from the blood into alveoli. This diffusion 2 2 2 of ADP. Note that whenever the intracellular Po is above reduces blood Pco and H+ concentration, shifting the 2 2 1 mm Hg, O usage rate becomes constant for any given O - hemoglobin dissociation curve to the left and upward. 2 2 concentration of ADP in the cell. Conversely, when the Therefore, the quantity of O that binds with the hemo- 2 ADP concentration is altered, the rate of O usage chang- globin at any given alveolar Po becomes considerably 2 2 es in proportion to the change in ADP concentration. increased, thus allowing greater O transport to the 2 As explained in Chapter 3, when adenosine triphos- tissues. phate (ATP) is used in the cells to provide energy, it is converted into ADP. The increasing concentration Effect of BPG to Cause Rightward of ADP increases metabolic usage of O as it combines Shift of the Oxygen-H emoglobin 2 with the various cell nutrients, releasing energy that Dissociation Curve reconverts the ADP back to ATP. Under normal operating The normal BPG in the blood always keeps the O - conditions, the rate of O usage by the cells is c ontrolled 2 2 hemoglobin dissociation curve shifted slightly to the right. ultimately by the rate of energy expenditure within the In hypoxic conditions that last longer than a few hours, cells—that is, by the rate at which ADP is formed from ATP.
