Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


level required to maintain maximal intracellular metabo- poisoning ensues. This condition often leads to brain con- lism. Thus, under these conditions, O usage by the cells vulsions and even death, as discussed in detail in Chapter 2 45 in relation to the high- pressure breathing of O among is diffusion- limited and is no longer determined by the 2 deep- sea divers. amount of ADP formed in the cells. However, this situation almost never occurs, except in pathological states. Combination of Hemoglobin With Carbon Monoxide—Displacement of O 2 Effect of Blood Flow on Metabolic Use of Oxygen. Carbon monoxide (CO) combines with hemoglobin at the The total amount of O 2 available each minute for use in same point on the hemoglobin molecule as O 2; it can therefore any given tissue is determined by (1) the quantity of O 2 displace O 2 from the hemoglobin and decrease the O 2 carrying that can be transported to the tissue in each 100 ml of capacity of blood. Furthermore, it binds with about 250 times blood, and (2) the rate of blood flow. If blood flow rate as much tenacity as O 2, which is demonstrated by the CO- falls to zero, the amount of available O also falls to zero. hemoglobin dissociation curve in Figure 41-12. This curve 2 is almost identical to the O-h emoglobin dissociation curve Thus, there are times when blood flow rate through a tis- 2 except that the CO partial pressures, shown on the abscissa, sue can be so low that tissue Po falls below the critical 1 mm Hg required for intracellu2 lar metabolism. Under are at a level 1⁄250 of those for the O 2- hemoglobin dissociation curve of Figure 41-8. Therefore, a CO partial pressure of only these conditions, the rate of tissue usage of O is blood 2 0.4 mm Hg in the alveoli, 1⁄250 that of normal alveolar O 2 (100 flow–limited. Neither diffusion- limited nor blood flow– mm Hg Po), allows the CO to compete equally with the O 2 2 limited oxygen states can continue for long, however, be- for combination with the hemoglobin and causes 50% of the cause the cells receive less O 2 than is required to continue hemoglobin in the blood to become bound with CO instead of the life of the cells. with O. Therefore, a CO pressure of only 0.6 mm
