Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to form carbonic acid. This re- Cl HCO 3– 21 .. HC gO b2 − CO 2 = = 2 7 3% % action would occur much too slowly to be of importance Plasma 3. HCO 3– = 70% were it not for the fact that there is an enzyme called carbonic anhydrase inside the red blood cells, which Figure 41-13 Transport of carbon dioxide in the blood. Hgb, Hemo- catalyzes the reaction between CO and water and ac- 2 globin. celerates its reaction rate by about 5000- fold. Therefore, instead of requiring many seconds or minutes to occur, piration rate in response to lack of O (usually reflected by as is true in the plasma, the reaction occurs so rapidly in 2 a low Po ) is absent. Because the brain is one of the first red blood cells that it reaches almost complete equilib- 2 organs affected by lack of oxygen, the person may become rium within a small fraction of a second. This phenom- disoriented and unconscious before becoming aware of the enon allows tremendous amounts of CO to react with 2 danger. the red blood cell water, even before the blood leaves the A patient severely poisoned with CO can be treated by tissue capillaries. administering pure O because O at high alveolar pressure 2 2 can displace CO rapidly from its combination with hemo- Dissociation of Carbonic Acid Into Bicarbonate and globin. The patient can also benefit from simultaneous ad- Hydrogen Ions. In another fraction of a second, the car- ministration of 5% CO because this strongly stimulates the 2 bonic acid formed in red cells (H CO ) dissociates into respiratory center, which increases alveolar ventilation and 2 3 reduces alveolar CO. With intensive O 2 and CO 2 therapy, H+ and bicarbonate ions (H+ and HCO 3−). Most of the H+ CO can be removed from the blood as much as 10 times as ions then combine with hemoglobin in the red blood cells rapidly as without therapy. because the hemoglobin protein is a powerful acid–b ase buffer. In turn, many of the HCO − ions diffuse from the 3 TRANSPORT OF CO IN BLOOD red blood cells into the plasma while chloride ions diffuse 2 into the red blood cells to take their place. This diffusion Transport of CO by the blood is not nearly as prob- is made possible by the
