Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


ions diffuse 2 into the red blood cells to take their place. This diffusion Transport of CO by the blood is not nearly as prob- is made possible by the presence of a special bicarbonate- 2 lematical as transport of O is because even in the most chloride carrier protein in the red blood cell membrane 2 abnormal conditions, CO can usually be transported in that shuttles these two ions in opposite directions at rapid 2 far greater quantities than can O . However, the amount velocities. Thus, the chloride content of venous red blood 2 of CO in the blood has a lot to do with the acid–b ase cells is greater than that of arterial red blood cells, a phe- 2 balance of the body fluids, which is discussed in Chapter nomenon called the chloride shift. 31. Under normal resting conditions, an average of 4 ml of The reversible combination of CO with water in red 2 CO are transported from the tissues to the lungs in each blood cells under the influence of carbonic anhydrase 2 100 ml of blood. accounts for about 70% of the CO transported from the 2 tissues to the lungs. Thus, this means of transporting CO CHEMICAL FORMS IN WHICH CO IS 2 2 is the most important. Indeed, when a carbonic anhy- TRANSPORTED drase inhibitor (e.g., acetazolamide) is administered to an To begin the process of CO transport, CO diffuses out animal to block the action of carbonic anhydrase in the 2 2 of the tissue cells in the dissolved molecular CO form. red blood cells, CO transport from the tissues becomes 2 2 On entering the tissue capillaries, the CO initiates a so poor that the tissue Pco may rise to 80 mm Hg instead 2 2 host of almost instantaneous physical and chemical reac- of the normal 45 mm Hg. tions, shown in Figure 41-13, which are essential for CO 2 transport. Transport of CO 2 in Combination With Hemoglobin and Plasma Proteins—Carbaminohemoglobin. In ad- Transport of CO in a Dissolved State 2 dition to reacting with water, CO reacts directly with 2 A small portion of the CO is transported in the dissolved amine radicals of the hemoglobin molecule to form the 2 state to the lungs. Recall that the Pco of venous blood compound carbaminohemoglobin (CO Hgb). This com- 2 2 is 45 mm Hg and that
