Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


form carbonic acid, 2 3 reaction is much slower than the reaction of CO with which then dissociates into water and CO , and the CO 2 2 2 water inside the red blood cells, it is doubtful that under is released from the blood into the alveoli and, finally, into normal conditions this carbamino mechanism transports the air. more than 20% of the total CO 2. Figure 41-15 demonstrates quantitatively the signifi- cance of the Haldane effect on the transport of CO from CARBON DIOXIDE DISSOCIATION CURVE 2 the tissues to the lungs. This figure shows small portions of The curve shown in Figure 41-14, the CO 2 dissociation two CO 2 dissociation curves: (1) when the Po 2 is 100 mm curve, depicts the dependence of total blood CO in all its Hg, which is the case in the blood capillaries of the lungs; 2 forms on Pco . Note that the normal blood Pco is within a and (2) when the Po is 40 mm Hg, which is the case in 2 2 2 narrow range of 40 mm Hg in arterial blood and 45 mm Hg the tissue capillaries. Point A shows that the normal Pco 2 in venous blood. Note also that the normal concentration of of 45 mm Hg in the tissues causes 52 volume percent of CO in the blood in all its different forms is about 50 volume CO to combine with the blood. On entering the lungs, 2 2 percent, but only 4 volume percent of this is exchanged dur- the Pco falls to 40 mm Hg, and the Po rises to 100 mm 2 2 ing normal transport of CO from the tissues to the lungs. Hg. If the CO dissociation curve did not shift because of 2 2 That is, the concentration rises to about 52 volume percent the Haldane effect, the CO content of the blood would fall 2 as the blood passes through the tissues and falls to about 48 only to 50 volume percent, which would be a loss of only volume percent as it passes through the lungs. 2 volume percent of CO . However, the increase in Po in 2 2 the lungs lowers the CO dissociation curve from the top When Oxygen Binds With Hemoglobin, 2 curve to the lower curve of the figure, so the CO con- CO Is Released (the Haldane
