Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the CO dissociation curve from the top When Oxygen Binds With Hemoglobin, 2 curve to the lower curve of the figure, so the CO con- CO Is Released (the Haldane Effect) to 2 2 tent falls to 48 volume percent (point B). This represents Increase CO Transport 2 an additional two volume percent loss of CO . Thus, the 2 Earlier in the chapter, we noted that an increase in CO in Haldane effect approximately doubles the amount of CO 2 2 the blood causes O to be displaced from the hemoglobin released from the blood in the lungs and approximately 2 (the Bohr effect), which is an important factor in increas- doubles the amount of CO picked up in the tissues. 2 ing O transport. The reverse is also true—binding of O 2 2 with hemoglobin tends to displace CO 2 from the blood. Change in Blood Acidity During Co 2 Transport This effect, called the Haldane effect, is quantitatively far The carbonic acid formed when CO enters the blood in 2 more important in promoting CO 2 transport than the peripheral tissues decreases blood pH. However, reaction Bohr effect in promoting O transport. of this acid with the acid– base buffers of the blood pre- 2 529 )% semulov( doolb ni OC 2 egnar gnitarepo lamroN )% semulov( doolb ni OC 2 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration vents the H+ concentration from rising very much (and the O combines with hydrogen atoms from the fats to 2 the pH from falling very much). Ordinarily, arterial blood form water instead of CO . In other words, when fats are 2 has a pH of about 7.41 and as the blood acquires CO 2 metabolized, the respiratory quotient of the chemical reac- in the tissue capillaries the pH falls to a venous value of tions in the tissues is about 0.70 instead of 1.00. (The tis- about 7.37. In other words, a pH change of 0.04 unit takes sue respiratory quotient is discussed in Chapter 72.) For place. The reverse occurs when CO is released from the 2 a person on a normal diet consuming average amounts of blood in the lungs, with the pH rising to the arterial value carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, the average value for R of 7.41 once again. During heavy exercise or other con- is considered to be 0.825. ditions of high metabolic activity, or
