Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


1.00. Conversely, when a 2012. person is using fats exclusively for metabolic energy, the Richardson RS: Oxygen transport and utilization: an integration of the R level falls to as low as 0.7. The reason for this differ- muscle systems. Adv Physiol Educ 27:183, 2003. ence is that when O is metabolized with carbohydrates, Rossiter HB: Exercise: Kinetic considerations for gas exchange. Compr 2 one molecule of CO is formed for each molecule of O Physiol. 1:203, 2011. 2 2 Tsai AG, Johnson PC, Intaglietta M: Oxygen gradients in the microcir- consumed; when O reacts with fats, a large share of 2 culation. Physiol Rev 83:933, 2003. 530 CHAPTER 4 2 Regulation of Respiration The nervous system normally adjusts the rate of alveo- rons. Even when all the peripheral nerves entering the lar ventilation to meet the demands of the body almost medulla have been sectioned, and the brain stem has exactly so that the oxygen partial pressure (Po ) and car- been transected above and below the medulla, this group 2 bon dioxide partial pressure (Pco ) in the arterial blood of neurons still emits repetitive bursts of inspiratory neu- 2 are hardly altered, even during heavy exercise and most ronal action potentials. The basic cause of these repeti- other types of respiratory stress. This chapter describes tive discharges is unknown. In primitive animals, neural the function of this neurogenic system for regulation of networks have been found in which activity of one set of respiration. neurons excites a second set, which in turn inhibits the first. Then, after a period of time, the mechanism repeats RESPIRATORY CENTER itself, continuing throughout the life of the animal. Similar networks of neurons are present in the human being, lo- The respiratory center is composed of several groups of cated entirely within the medulla; it probably involves not neurons located bilaterally in the medulla oblongata only the dorsal respiratory group but adjacent areas of the and pons of the brain stem, as shown in Figure 42- 1. It medulla as well and is responsible for the basic rhythm of is divided into three major collections of neurons: (1) a respiration. dorsal respiratory group, located in the dorsal portion of the medulla, which mainly causes inspiration; (2) a ven- Inspiratory “Ramp” Signal. The nervous signal that tral respiratory group, located in the ventrolateral part of is transmitted to the inspiratory muscles, mainly the the
