Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


causes inspiration; (2) a ven- Inspiratory “Ramp” Signal. The nervous signal that tral respiratory group, located in the ventrolateral part of is transmitted to the inspiratory muscles, mainly the the medulla, which mainly causes expiration; and (3) the diaphragm, is not an instantaneous burst of action po- pneumotaxic center, located dorsally in the superior por- tentials. Instead, it begins weakly and increases steadily tion of the pons, which mainly controls rate and depth of in a ramp manner for about 2 seconds in normal res- breathing. piration. It then ceases abruptly for approximately the next 3 seconds, which turns off the excitation of the dia- DORSAL RESPIRATORY GROUP OF phragm and allows elastic recoil of the lungs and chest NEURONS CONTROLS INSPIRATION AND wall to cause expiration. Next, the inspiratory signal RESPIRATORY RHYTHM begins again for another cycle; this cycle repeats again and again, with expiration occurring in between. Thus, The dorsal respiratory group of neurons plays a fundamen- the inspiratory signal is a ramp signal. The obvious ad- tal role in the control of respiration and extends most of the vantage of the ramp is that it causes a steady increase in length of the medulla. Most of its neurons are located in the the volume of the lungs during inspiration, rather than nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS), although additional inspiratory gasps. neurons in the adjacent reticular substance of the medulla Two qualities of the inspiratory ramp are controlled, also play important roles in respiratory control. The NTS is as follows: the sensory termination of both the vagal and the glosso- 1. Control of the rate of increase of the ramp signal so pharyngeal nerves, which transmit sensory signals into the that during heavy respiration, the ramp increases respiratory center from the following: (1) peripheral che- rapidly and therefore fills the lungs rapidly. moreceptors; (2) baroreceptors; (3) receptors in the liver, 2. Control of the limiting point at which the ramp pancreas, and multiple parts of the gastrointestinal tract; suddenly ceases, which is the usual method for and (4) several types of receptors in the lungs. controlling the rate of respiration. That is, the ear- lier the ramp ceases, the shorter the duration of in- Rhythmical Inspiratory Discharges From the Dorsal spiration. This method also shortens the duration Respiratory Group. The basic rhythm of respiration is of expiration. Thus, the frequency of respiration is generated mainly in the
