Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


From the Dorsal spiration. This method also shortens the duration Respiratory Group. The basic rhythm of respiration is of expiration. Thus, the frequency of respiration is generated mainly in the dorsal respiratory group of neu- increased. 531 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration 2. The ventral respiratory neurons do not appear to participate in the basic rhythmical oscillation that controls respiration. Pneumotaxic Fourth ventricle center 3. When the respiratory drive for increased pulmo- Inhibits nary ventilation becomes greater than normal, res- piratory signals spill over into the ventral respira- ? Apneustic center Dorsal respiratory tory neurons from the basic oscillating mechanism group (inspiration) Ventral respiratory of the dorsal respiratory area. As a consequence, the group (expiration ventral respiratory area also contributes extra res- and inspiration) piratory drive. 4. Electrical stimulation of a few of the neurons in the Respiratory motor ventral group causes inspiration, whereas stimula- Vagus and pathways tion of others causes expiration. Therefore, these glossopharyngeal neurons contribute to both inspiration and expira- tion. They are especially important in providing the powerful expiratory signals to the abdominal mus- Figure 42- 1. Organization of the respiratory center. cles during very heavy expiration. Thus, this area operates more or less as an overdrive mechanism PNEUMOTAXIC CENTER LIMITS DURATION when high levels of pulmonary ventilation are re- OF INSPIRATION AND INCREASES quired, especially during heavy exercise. RESPIRATORY RATE LUNG INFLATION SIGNALS LIMIT A pneumotaxic center, located dorsally in the nucleus INSPIRATION—THE HERING- BREUER parabrachialis of the upper pons, transmits signals to INFLATION REFLEX the inspiratory area. The primary effect of this center is to control the “switch-o ff” point of the inspiratory ramp, In addition to the central nervous system respiratory thereby controlling the duration of the filling phase of the control mechanisms operating entirely within the brain lung cycle. When the pneumotaxic signal is strong, inspi- stem, sensory nerve signals from the lungs also help con- ration might last for as little as 0.5 second, thus filling the trol respiration. Most importantly, located in the muscu- lungs only slightly; when the pneumotaxic signal is weak, lar portions of the walls of the bronchi and bronchioles inspiration might continue for 5 or more seconds, thus throughout the lungs are stretch receptors that transmit filling the lungs with much greater amounts of air. signals through the vagi into the dorsal respiratory group The function of the pneumotaxic center is primarily to of neurons when
