Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


filling the lungs with much greater amounts of air. signals through the vagi into the dorsal respiratory group The function of the pneumotaxic center is primarily to of neurons when the lungs become overstretched. These limit inspiration, which has a secondary effect of increasing signals affect inspiration in much the same way as signals the rate of breathing because limitation of inspiration also from the pneumotaxic center; that is, when the lungs shortens expiration and the entire period of each respira- become overinflated, the stretch receptors activate an tion. A strong pneumotaxic signal can increase the rate of appropriate feedback response that “switches off” the breathing to 30 to 40 breaths/min, whereas a weak pneumo- inspiratory ramp and thus stops further inspiration. This taxic signal may reduce the rate to only 3 to 5 breaths/min. mechanism is called the Hering- Breuer inflation reflex. VENTRAL RESPIRATORY GROUP OF This reflex also increases the rate of respiration, as is true NEURONS—FUNCTIONS IN BOTH for signals from the pneumotaxic center. INSPIRATION AND EXPIRATION In humans, the Hering- Breuer reflex probably is not activated until the tidal volume increases to more than Located in each side of the medulla, about 5 millimeters three times normal (>≈1.5 L/breath). Therefore, this reflex anterior and lateral to the dorsal respiratory group of neu- appears to be mainly a protective mechanism for prevent- rons, is the ventral respiratory group of neurons, found in ing excess lung inflation rather than an important factor the nucleus ambiguus rostrally and the nucleus retroam- in normal control of ventilation. biguus caudally. The function of this neuronal group dif- fers from that of the dorsal respiratory group in several CONTROL OF OVERALL RESPIRATORY important ways: CENTER ACTIVITY 1. The neurons of the ventral respiratory group re- main almost totally inactive during normal quiet Up to this point, we have discussed the basic mechanisms respiration. Therefore, normal quiet breathing is for causing inspiration and expiration, but it is also impor- caused only by repetitive inspiratory signals from tant to know how the intensity of the respiratory control the dorsal respiratory group transmitted mainly to signals is increased or decreased to match the ventilatory the diaphragm, and expiration results from elastic needs of the body. For example, during heavy exercise, recoil of the lungs and thoracic cage. the rates of oxygen (O ) usage and carbon dioxide (CO ) 2 2 532 Chapter 42 Regulation
