Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


For example, during heavy exercise, recoil of the lungs and thoracic cage. the rates of oxygen (O ) usage and carbon dioxide (CO ) 2 2 532 Chapter 42 Regulation of Respiration formation are often increased to as much as 20 times normal, requiring commensurate increases in pulmonary ventilation. The major purpose of the rest of this chapter Chemosensitive area is to discuss this control of ventilation in accord with the respiratory needs of the body. CHEMICAL CONTROL OF RESPIRATION Inspiratory area H+ + HCO – 3 The ultimate goal of respiration is to maintain proper concentrations of O , CO , and H+ in the tissues. It is 2 2 fortunate, therefore, that respiratory activity is highly H 2CO 3 responsive to changes in each of these substances. Excess CO or excess H+ in the blood mainly act directly 2 CO 2 + H 2O on the respiratory center, causing greatly increased strength of both the inspiratory and the expiratory motor signals to the respiratory muscles. Oxygen, in contrast, Figure 42- 2. Stimulation of the brain stem inspiratory area by signals does not have a major direct effect on the respiratory cen- from the chemosensitive area located bilaterally in the medulla, lying ter of the brain in controlling respiration. Instead, it acts only a fraction of a millimeter beneath the ventral medullary surface. almost entirely on peripheral chemoreceptors located in Note also that H+ stimulates the chemosensitive area, but carbon di- the carotid and aortic bodies, and these chemoreceptors oxide in the fluid gives rise to most of the H+. in turn transmit appropriate nervous signals to the respi- ratory center for control of respiration. direct stimulatory effect on respiration. These reactions are shown in Figure 42- 2. DIRECT CONTROL OF RESPIRATORY Why does blood CO 2 have a more potent effect in CENTER ACTIVITY BY CO AND H+ stimulating the chemosensitive neurons than blood H+? 2 The answer is that the blood–b rain barrier is not very Chemosensitive Area of the Respiratory Center Be- permeable to H+, but CO passes through this barrier 2 neath the Medulla’s Ventral Surface. We have mainly almost as if the barrier did not exist. Consequently, when- discussed three areas of the respiratory center—the dor- ever the blood Pco increases, so does the Pco of both 2 2 sal respiratory group of neurons, the ventral respiratory the interstitial fluid of the medulla and
