Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


center—the dor- ever the blood Pco increases, so does the Pco of both 2 2 sal respiratory group of neurons, the ventral respiratory the interstitial fluid of the medulla and the cerebrospinal group, and the pneumotaxic center. It is believed that fluid. In both these fluids, the CO immediately reacts 2 none of these is affected directly by changes in blood CO with the water to form new H+. Thus, paradoxically, more 2 or H+ concentration. Instead, an additional neuronal area, H+ is released into the respiratory chemosensitive sen- a chemosensitive area, shown in Figure 42- 2, is located sory area of the medulla when the blood CO 2 concen- bilaterally, lying only 0.2 millimeter beneath the ventral tration increases than when the blood H+ concentration surface of the medulla. This area is highly sensitive to increases. For this reason, respiratory center activity is changes in either blood Pco or H+ concentration, and it increased very strongly by changes in blood CO , a fact 2 2 in turn excites the other portions of the respiratory center. that we subsequently discuss quantitatively. Excitation of the Chemosensitive Neurons by H+ Is Attenuated Stimulatory Effect of CO After the First 2 Likely the Primary Stimulus. The sensor neurons in the 1 to 2 Days. Excitation of the respiratory center by CO is 2 chemosensitive area are especially excited by H+; in fact, great the first few hours after the blood CO first increas- 2 it is believed that H+ may be the only important direct es, but then it gradually declines over the next 1 to 2 days, stimulus for these neurons. However, H+ ions do not eas- decreasing to about one-fi fth the initial effect. Part of this ily cross the blood–brain barrier. For this reason, changes decline results from renal readjustment of the H+ concen- in H+ concentration in the blood have considerably less tration in the circulating blood back toward normal after effect in stimulating the chemosensitive neurons than the CO first increases the H+ concentration. The kidneys 2 changes in blood CO , even though CO is believed to achieve this readjustment by increasing the blood HCO −, 2 2 3 stimulate these neurons secondarily by changing the H+ which binds with H+ in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid concentration, as explained in the following section. to reduce their concentrations. But, even more important- ly, over a period
