Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2 mm Hg, which demonstrates the tremendous effect that PERIPHERAL CHEMORECEPTOR CO 2 changes have in controlling respiration. By contrast, SYSTEM—ROLE OF OXYGEN IN the change in respiration in the normal blood pH range, RESPIRATORY CONTROL which is between 7.3 and 7.5, is less than 10% as great. In addition to control of respiratory activity by the respi- Changes in O 2 Have Little Direct Effect on Control of ratory center itself, still another mechanism is available the Respiratory Center. Changes in O concentration for controlling respiration. This mechanism is the periph- 2 have virtually no direct effect on the respiratory center eral chemoreceptor system, shown in Figure 42- 4. Special itself to alter respiratory drive—although O changes nervous chemical receptors, called chemoreceptors, are 2 do have an indirect effect, acting through the peripheral located in several areas outside the brain. They are espe- chemoreceptors, as explained in the next section. cially important for detecting changes in O in the blood, 2 We learned in Chapter 41 that the hemoglobin-o xygen although they also respond to a lesser extent to changes in buffer system delivers almost exactly normal amounts of CO and H+ concentrations. The chemoreceptors trans- 2 O to the tissues, even when the pulmonary Po changes mit nervous signals to the respiratory center in the brain 2 2 from a value as low as 60 mm Hg up to a value as high as to help regulate respiratory activity. 1000 mm Hg. Therefore, except under special conditions, Most of the chemoreceptors are in the carotid bodies. adequate delivery of O can occur despite changes in lung However, a few are also in the aortic bodies, shown in the 2 ventilation ranging from slightly below half-n ormal to as lower part of Figure 42- 4, and a very few are located else- high as 20 or more times normal. This is not true for CO where in association with other arteries of the thoracic 2 because both the blood and tissue Pco change inversely and abdominal regions. 2 with the rate of pulmonary ventilation; thus, the processes The carotid bodies are located bilaterally in the bifur- of animal evolution have made CO the major controller cations of the common carotid arteries. Their affer- 2 of respiration, not O . ent nerve fibers pass through Hering’s nerves to the 2 534 )1 = etar lasaB( noitalitnev raloevlA lamroN Chapter 42
