Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


carotid arteries. Their affer- 2 of respiration, not O . ent nerve fibers pass through Hering’s nerves to the 2 534 )1 = etar lasaB( noitalitnev raloevlA lamroN Chapter 42 Regulation of Respiration 800 Artery 600 PO2 K+ channel 400 Ca2+ ∆Vm Ca2+ channel 200 ? K+ 0 Glomus [Ca2+] 0 100 200 300 400 500 cell Arterial PO (mmHg) 2 Figure 42- 5. Effect of arterial Po2 on impulse rate from the carotid body. glossopharyngeal nerves and then to the dorsal respiratory ATP Acetylcholine area of the medulla. The aortic bodies are located along the arch of the aorta; their afferent nerve fibers pass through the vagi, also to the dorsal medullary respiratory area. Each of the chemoreceptor bodies receives its own spe- Afferent fiber To CNS cial blood supply through a minute artery directly from the adjacent arterial trunk. Blood flow through these bodies is extreme, 20 times the weight of the bodies themselves each minute. Therefore, the percentage of O removed from the 2 Figure 42- 6. Carotid body glomus cell oxygen sensing. When the Po2 flowing blood is virtually zero, which means that the che- decreases below around 60 mm Hg, potassium channels close, caus- moreceptors are exposed at all times to arterial blood, not ing cell depolarization, opening of calcium channels, and increased venous blood, and their Po values are arterial Po values. cytosolic calcium ion concentration. This stimulates transmitter re- 2 2 lease (adenosine triphosphate [ATP] is likely the most important), which activates afferent fibers that send signals to the central nervous Decreased Arterial Oxygen Stimulates the Chemore- system (CNS) and stimulate respiration. The mechanisms whereby ceptors. When the oxygen concentration in the arterial low Po2 influences potassium channel activity are still unclear. ΔVm, blood falls below normal, the chemoreceptors become Change in membrane voltage. strongly stimulated. This effect is demonstrated in Figure 42- 5, which shows the effect of different levels of arterial Po on the rate of nerve impulse transmission from a ca- be the main neurotransmitters, more recent studies sug- 2 rotid body. Note that the impulse rate is particularly sen- gest that during hypoxia, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) sitive to changes in arterial Po in the range of 60 mm Hg may be the key excitatory neurotransmitter released by 2 down to 30 mm Hg, a range in which hemoglobin satura- carotid body glomus cells. tion with oxygen decreases rapidly. Increased
