Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Po on ventilation. 2 2 2 2 H+ responses are mainly responsible for regulating venti- Now observe the green curves. Whereas the red curves lation in healthy humans at sea level. were measured at a blood pH of 7.4, the green curves were measured at a pH of 7.3. We now have two families of Chronic Breathing of Low O 2 curves representing the combined effects of Pco and Po Stimulates Respiration Even More—The 2 2 on ventilation at two different pH values. Still other fami- Phenomenon of “Acclimatization” lies of curves would be displaced to the right at higher pH Mountain climbers have found that when they ascend and displaced to the left at lower pH. Therefore, using this a mountain slowly, over a period of days rather than diagram, one can predict the level of alveolar ventilation a period of hours, they breathe much more deeply and for most combinations of alveolar Pco , alveolar Po , and 2 2 therefore can withstand far lower atmospheric O con- arterial pH. 2 centrations than when they ascend rapidly. This phenom- enon is called acclimatization. REGULATION OF RESPIRATION DURING The reason for acclimatization is that within 2 to 3 days, EXERCISE the respiratory center in the brain stem loses about 80% of its sensitivity to changes in Pco and H+. Therefore, the During strenuous exercise, O consumption and CO 2 2 2 excess ventilatory blow- off of CO that normally would formation can increase as much as 20-f old. Yet, in the 2 inhibit an increase in respiration fails to occur, and low O healthy athlete, as illustrated in Figure 42- 9, alveolar ven- 2 can drive the respiratory system to a much higher level of tilation ordinarily increases almost exactly in step with alveolar ventilation than under acute conditions. Instead the increased level of oxygen metabolism. The arterial of the 70% increase in ventilation that might occur after Po , Pco , and pH remain almost exactly normal. 2 2 acute exposure to low O , the alveolar ventilation often In trying to analyze what causes the increased ven- 2 increases by 400% to 500% after 2 to 3 days of low O , tilation during exercise, one is tempted to ascribe this 2 536 )1 = lamron( noitalitnev raloevlA )gHmm( OCP lairetrA 2 )nim/L( noitalitnev raloevlA Chapter 42 Regulation of Respiration 120 44 110 42 100 40 80
