Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


begins to exercise, a large share to normal, even as the exercise continues. This is shown of the total increase in ventilation begins immediately on ini- toward the end of 1 minute of exercise in the figure. tiation of the exercise, before any blood chemicals have had Figure 42- 11 summarizes the control of respiration time to change. It is likely that most of the increase in respi- during exercise in another way, this time more quanti- ration results from neurogenic signals transmitted directly tatively. The lower curve of this figure shows the effect into the brain stem respiratory center at the same time that of different levels of arterial Pco on alveolar ventilation 2 signals go to the body muscles to cause muscle contraction. when the body is at rest—that is, not exercising. The upper curve shows the approximate shift of this ventilatory curve Interrelationship Between Chemical and Nervous caused by neurogenic drive from the respiratory center Factors in Controlling Respiration During Exercise. that occurs during heavy exercise. The points indicated on When a person exercises, direct nervous signals presum- the two curves show the arterial Pco first in the resting 2 ably stimulate the respiratory center by almost the proper state and then in the exercising state. Note in both cases amount to supply the extra O required for exercise and that the Pco is at the normal level of 40 mm Hg. In other 2 2 to blow off extra CO . Occasionally, however, the nerv- words, the neurogenic factor shifts the curve about 20-f old 2 ous respiratory control signals are too strong or too weak. in the upward direction, so ventilation almost matches Chemical factors then play a significant role in bringing the rate of CO release, thus keeping arterial Pco near its 2 2 about the final adjustment of respiration required to keep normal value. The upper curve of Figure 42- 11 also shows the O , CO , and H+ concentrations of the body fluids as that if during exercise the arterial Pco does change from 2 2 2 nearly normal as possible. its normal value of 40 mm Hg, it has an extra stimulatory This process is demonstrated in Figure 42- 10. The effect on ventilation at a Pco 2 value greater than 40 mm Hg lower curve shows changes in alveolar ventilation during and a depressant effect at a Pco value
