Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


The effect on ventilation at a Pco 2 value greater than 40 mm Hg lower curve shows changes in alveolar ventilation during and a depressant effect at a Pco value less than 40 mm Hg. 2 1 minute of exercise, and the upper curve shows changes in arterial Pco . Note that at the onset of exercise, the Neurogenic Control of Ventilation During Exercise 2 alveolar ventilation increases almost instantaneously, May Be Partly a Learned Response. Many experiments without an initial increase in arterial Pco . In fact, this suggest that the brain’s ability to shift the ventilatory 2 537 )nim/L( noitalitnev latoT OCP lairetrA noitalitnev raloevlA 2 )gHmm( )nim/L( UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration Function of Lung J Receptors. A few sensory nerve 140 endings have been described in the alveolar walls in jux- taposition to the pulmonary capillaries—hence, the name Exercise J receptors. They are stimulated especially when the pul- 120 monary capillaries become engorged with blood or when pulmonary edema occurs in conditions such as congestive 100 heart failure. Although the functional role of the J receptors is not clear, their excitation may give the person a feeling of 80 dyspnea. Brain Edema Depresses the Respiratory Center. The 60 activity of the respiratory center may be depressed or even inactivated by acute brain edema resulting from a brain Resting concussion. For example, the head might be struck against 40 some solid object, after which the damaged brain tissues swell, compressing the cerebral arteries against the cranial Normal 20 vault and thus partially blocking the cerebral blood supply. Occasionally, respiratory depression resulting from 0 brain edema can be relieved temporarily by intravenous 20 30 40 50 60 80 100 injection of a hypertonic solution, such as a highly concen- Arterial PCO (mm Hg) trated mannitol solution. These solutions osmotically re- 2 move some of the fluids of the brain, thus relieving intrac- Figure 42- 11. Approximate effect of maximum exercise in an athlete ranial pressure and sometimes re-e stablishing respiration to shift the alveolar Pco2–ventilation response curve to a level much within a few minutes. higher than normal. The shift, believed to be caused by neurogenic factors, is almost exactly the right amount to maintain arterial Pco2 at Overdosage of Anesthetics and Narcotics. Perhaps the the normal level of 40 mm Hg in the resting state and during heavy most prevalent cause of respiratory depression and respira- exercise.
