Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Overdosage of Anesthetics and Narcotics. Perhaps the the normal level of 40 mm Hg in the resting state and during heavy most prevalent cause of respiratory depression and respira- exercise. tory arrest is overdosage with anesthetics or narcotics. For example, sodium pentobarbital depresses the respiratory center considerably more than many other anesthetics, such Depth of as halothane. At one time, morphine was used as an anes- respiration thetic, but this drug is now used only as an adjunct to an- esthetics because it greatly depresses the respiratory center while having less ability to anesthetize the cerebral cortex. PCO of Respiratory 2 Because of their capacity to cause respiratory depres- respiratory center excited neurons sion, opioids are responsible for a high proportion of fa- tal drug overdoses around the world. In the United States, approximately 70,000 people died from drug overdose in PCO of 2 2017, largely due to respiratory arrest. lung blood Periodic Breathing. An abnormality of respiration Figure 42- 12. Cheyne- Stokes breathing, showing changing Pco2 in called periodic breathing occurs in several disease condi- the pulmonary blood (red line) and delayed changes in the Pco2 of the tions. The person breathes deeply for a short interval and fluids of the respiratory center (blue line). then breathes slightly or not at all for an additional interval, with the cycle repeating itself over and over. One type of response curve during exercise, as shown in Figure periodic breathing, Cheyne- Stokes breathing, is character- 42-1 1, is at least partly a learned response. That is, ized by slowly waxing and waning respiration occurring with repeated periods of exercise, the brain becomes about every 40 to 60 seconds, as illustrated in Figure 42- 12. progressively more able to provide the proper signals Basic Mechanism of Cheyne- Stokes Breathing. The required to keep the blood Pco at its normal level. 2 basic cause of Cheyne- Stokes breathing is the following. Also, there is reason to believe that even the cerebral When a person overbreathes, thus blowing off too much cortex is involved in this learning because experiments CO from the pulmonary blood while at the same time 2 that block only the cortex also block the learned re- increasing blood O , it takes several seconds before the 2 sponse. changed pulmonary blood can be transported to the brain and inhibit the excess ventilation. By this time, the per- Other Factors That Affect
