Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


takes several seconds before the 2 sponse. changed pulmonary blood can be transported to the brain and inhibit the excess ventilation. By this time, the per- Other Factors That Affect Respiration son has already overventilated for an extra few seconds. Therefore, when the overventilated blood finally reaches Effect of Irritant Receptors in the Airways. The the brain respiratory center, the center becomes depressed epithelium of the trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles is to an excessive amount, at which point the opposite cycle supplied with sensory nerve endings called pulmonary begins—that is, CO increases, and O decreases in the al- irritant receptors that are stimulated by many factors. 2 2 veoli. Again, it takes a few seconds before the brain can These receptors initiate coughing and sneezing, as dis- respond to these new changes. When the brain does re- cussed in Chapter 40. They may also cause bronchial spond, the person breathes hard once again and the cycle constriction in persons with diseases such as asthma repeats. and emphysema. 538 )nim/L( noitalitnev raloevlA Chapter 42 Regulation of Respiration The basic cause of Cheyne- Stokes breathing occurs in eve- In persons with sleep apnea, loud snoring and labored ryone. However, under normal conditions, this mechanism is breathing occur soon after falling asleep. The snoring pro- highly damped. That is, the fluids of the blood and respiratory ceeds, often becoming louder, and is then interrupted by a center control areas have large amounts of dissolved and chem- long silent period during which no breathing (apnea) occurs. ically bound CO and O. Therefore, normally, the lungs can- These periods of apnea result in significant decreases in Po 2 2 2 not build up enough extra CO or depress the O sufficiently in and increases in Pco, which greatly stimulate respiration. 2 2 2 a few seconds to cause the next cycle of the periodic breathing. This stimulation, in turn, causes sudden attempts to breathe, However, under two separate conditions, the damping factors which result in loud snorts and gasps followed by snoring and can be overridden, and Cheyne- Stokes breathing does occur: repeated episodes of apnea. The periods of apnea and labored 1. When a long delay occurs for transport of blood from the breathing are repeated several hundred times during the night, lungs to the brain, changes in CO and O in the alveoli resulting in fragmented restless sleep. Therefore, patients with 2 2
