Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


are repeated several hundred times during the night, lungs to the brain, changes in CO and O in the alveoli resulting in fragmented restless sleep. Therefore, patients with 2 2 can continue for many more seconds than usual. Under sleep apnea usually have excessive daytime drowsiness, as well these conditions, the storage capacities of the alveoli and as other disorders, including increased sympathetic activity, pulmonary blood for these gases are exceeded; then, after a high heart rate, pulmonary and systemic hypertension, and a few more seconds, the periodic respiratory drive becomes greatly elevated risk for cardiovascular disease. extreme and Cheyne- Stokes breathing begins. This type Obstructive sleep apnea usually occurs in older obese of Cheyne- Stokes breathing often occurs in patients with persons in whom there is increased fat deposition in the soft severe cardiac failure because blood flow is slow, thus de- tissues of the pharynx or compression of the pharynx due to laying the transport of blood gases from the lungs to the excessive fat masses in the neck. In a few individuals, sleep brain. In patients with chronic heart failure, Cheyne- Stokes apnea may be associated with nasal obstruction, a very large breathing can sometimes occur on and off for months. tongue, enlarged tonsils, or certain shapes of the palate that 2. A second cause of Cheyne- Stokes breathing is increased greatly increase resistance to the flow of air to the lungs dur- negative feedback gain in the respiratory control areas, ing inspiration. The most common treatments of obstruc- which means that a change in blood CO or O causes a tive sleep apnea include the following: (1) surgery to remove 2 2 far greater change in ventilation than normally. For ex- excess fat tissue at the back of the throat (a procedure called ample, instead of the normal two- to threefold increase uvulopalatopharyngoplasty), remove enlarged tonsils or ad- in ventilation that occurs when the Pco rises 3 mm Hg, enoids, or create an opening in the trachea (tracheostomy) 2 the same 3- mm Hg rise might increase ventilation by to bypass the obstructed airway during sleep; and (2) nasal 10- to 20- fold. The brain feedback tendency for periodic ventilation with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). breathing is now strong enough to cause Cheyne- Stokes “Central” Sleep Apnea Occurs When the Neural Drive breathing without extra blood flow delay between the to Respiratory Muscles Is Transiently
