Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


breathing is now strong enough to cause Cheyne- Stokes “Central” Sleep Apnea Occurs When the Neural Drive breathing without extra blood flow delay between the to Respiratory Muscles Is Transiently Abolished. In a few lungs and brain. This type of Cheyne- Stokes breathing persons with sleep apnea, the central nervous system drive occurs mainly in patients with damage to the respiratory to the ventilatory muscles transiently ceases. Disorders centers of the brain. The brain damage often turns off that can cause cessation of the ventilatory drive during the respiratory drive entirely for a few seconds, and then sleep include damage to the central respiratory centers or an extra- intense increase in blood CO 2 turns it back on abnormalities of the respiratory neuromuscular apparatus. with great force. Cheyne- Stokes breathing of this type is Patients affected by central sleep apnea may have decreased frequently a prelude to death from brain malfunction. ventilation, even when they are awake, although they are Typical records of changes in pulmonary and respirato- fully capable of normal voluntary breathing. During sleep, ry center Pco 2 during Cheyne- Stokes breathing are shown their breathing disorders usually worsen, resulting in more in Figure 42- 12. Note that the Pco 2 of the pulmonary frequent episodes of apnea that decrease Po 2 and increase blood changes in advance of the Pco 2 of the respiratory Pco 2 until a critical level is reached that eventually stimu- neurons. However, the depth of respiration corresponds lates respiration. These transient instabilities of respiration with the Pco 2 in the brain, not with the Pco 2 in the pulmo- cause restless sleep and clinical features similar to those ob- nary blood where the ventilation is occurring. served in people with obstructive sleep apnea. In most patients, the cause of central sleep apnea is Sleep Apnea unknown, although instability of the respiratory drive can The term apnea means absence of spontaneous breathing. Oc- result from strokes or other disorders that make the respira- casional apneas occur during normal sleep, but in persons with tory centers of the brain less responsive to the stimulatory ef- sleep apnea, the frequency and duration are greatly increased, fects of CO and H+. Patients with this disease are extremely 2 with episodes of apnea lasting for 10 seconds or longer and oc- sensitive to even small doses of sedatives or narcotics, which curring 300 to 500 times each
