Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


extremely 2 with episodes of apnea lasting for 10 seconds or longer and oc- sensitive to even small doses of sedatives or narcotics, which curring 300 to 500 times each night. Sleep apneas can be caused further reduce the responsiveness of the respiratory centers by obstruction of the upper airways, especially the pharynx, or to the stimulatory effects of CO . Medications that stimu- 2 by an impaired central nervous system respiratory drive. late the respiratory centers can sometimes be helpful, but Obstructive Sleep Apnea Is Caused by Blockage of the ventilation with CPAP at night is usually necessary. Upper Airway. The muscles of the pharynx normally keep In some cases, sleep apnea may be caused by a combina- this passage open to allow air to flow into the lungs during tion of obstructive and central mechanisms. This “mixed” inspiration. During sleep, these muscles usually relax, but type of sleep apnea is estimated to account for approxi- the airway passage remains open enough to permit adequate mately 15% of all sleep apnea cases, whereas pure “central” airflow. Some people have an especially narrow passage, and sleep apnea accounts for less than 1% of cases. The most relaxation of these muscles during sleep causes the pharynx common cause of sleep apnea is obstruction of the upper to close completely so that air cannot flow into the lungs. airway. 539 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration Voluntary Control of Respiration Guyenet PG, Bayliss DA, Stornetta RL, et al: Proton detection and breathing regulation by the retrotrapezoid nucleus. J Physiol Thus far, we have discussed mainly the involuntary system 594:1529, 2016. for control of respiration. However, we all know that respi- Guyenet PG, Bayliss DA: Neural control of breathing and CO homeo- 2 ration can be controlled voluntarily for short periods, and stasis. Neuron 87:946, 2015. that a person can hyperventilate or hypoventilate to such Hilaire G, Pasaro R: Genesis and control of the respiratory rhythm in an extent that serious derangements in Pco , pH, and Po adult mammals. News Physiol Sci 18:23, 2003. 2 2 can occur in the blood. In fact, the world record for dura- Hoiland RL, Fisher JA, Ainslie PN: Regulation of the cerebral circula- tion by arterial carbon dioxide. Compr Physiol 9:1101, 2019. tion of voluntary breath-h olding (apnea) under static rest- Hoiland RL, Howe CA, Coombs GB, Ainslie PN: Ventilatory and cere- ing conditions (and not hyperventilating
