Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


physiological gas, the CO dissolves in the solution until an equilib- 2 principles of respiration and gas exchange. Some respira- rium state is reached. In this equilibrium state, the pH tory diseases result from inadequate ventilation. Others of the solution is a function of the CO and bicarbo- 2 are caused by abnormalities of diffusion through the pul- nate ion (HCO −) concentrations in accordance with the 3 monary membrane or abnormal blood transport of gases Henderson- Hasselbalch equation explained in Chapter between the lungs and tissues. Therapy is often entirely 31: HCO− different for these diseases, so it is not satisfactory simply pH=6.1 + log 3 CO to make a diagnosis of “respiratory insufficiency.” 2 USEFUL METHODS FOR STUDYING When the glass electrode is used to measure CO 2 in RESPIRATORY ABNORMALITIES blood, a miniature glass electrode is surrounded by a thin plastic membrane. A solution of sodium bicarbon- In the previous few chapters, we discussed several meth- ate of known concentration is in the space between the ods for studying respiratory abnormalities, including electrode and plastic membrane. Blood is then super- measuring vital capacity, tidal air, functional residual fused onto the outer surface of the plastic membrane, capacity, dead space, physiologic shunt, and physiological allowing CO to diffuse from the blood into the bicar- 2 dead space. This array of measurements is only part of the bonate solution. Only a drop or so of blood is required. armamentarium of the clinical pulmonary physiologist. Next, the pH is measured by the glass electrode, and the Some other tools are described here. CO is calculated using the formula that was previously 2 provided. STUDY OF BLOOD GASES AND BLOOD pH Determination of Blood Po 2. The concentration of Among the most fundamental of all tests of pulmonary O in a fluid can be measured by a technique called po- 2 performance are determinations of the blood partial pres- larography. Electric current is made to flow between a sure of oxygen (Po ), carbon dioxide (CO ), and pH. It is small negative electrode and the solution. If the volt- 2 2 often important to make these measurements rapidly as age of the electrode is more than −0.6 volt different an aid in determining appropriate therapy for acute respi- from the voltage of the solution, O will deposit on 2 ratory distress or acute abnormalities of acid– base bal- the electrode.
