Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


aid in determining appropriate therapy for acute respi- from the voltage of the solution, O will deposit on 2 ratory distress or acute abnormalities of acid– base bal- the electrode. Furthermore, the rate of current flow ance. The following simple and rapid methods have been through the electrode will be directly proportional to developed to make these measurements within minutes, the concentration of O (and therefore to PO as well). 2 2 using no more than a few drops of blood. In practice, a negative platinum electrode with a sur- face area of about 1 square millimeter is used, and this Determination of Blood pH. Blood pH is measured us- electrode is separated from the blood by a thin plastic ing a glass pH electrode of the type commonly used in membrane that allows diffusion of O but not diffusion 2 chemical laboratories. However, the electrodes used for of proteins or other substances that will “poison” the this purpose are miniaturized. The voltage generated by electrode. the glass electrode is a direct measure of pH and is gener- Often, all three of the measuring devices for pH, CO , 2 ally read directly from a voltmeter scale, or it is recorded and Po are built into the same apparatus, and all these 2 on a chart. measurements can be made within a minute or so using a single droplet- sized sample of blood. Thus, changes in the Determination of Blood CO 2. A glass electrode pH me- blood gas levels and pH can be followed almost moment ter can also be used to determine blood CO . When a by moment at the bedside. 2 541 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration MEASUREMENT OF MAXIMUM on the maximum expiratory flow. The curve recorded in EXPIRATORY FLOW this section shows the maximum expiratory flow at all levels of lung volume after a healthy person first inhales In many respiratory diseases, particularly in asthma, the as much air as possible and then expires with maximum resistance to airflow becomes especially great during expiratory effort until he or she can expire at no greater expiration, sometimes causing tremendous difficulty in rate. Note that the person quickly reaches a maximum breathing. This condition has led to the concept called expiratory airflow of more than 400 L/min. However, maximum expiratory flow, which can be defined as fol- regardless of how much additional expiratory effort the lows.
