Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


to the concept called expiratory airflow of more than 400 L/min. However, maximum expiratory flow, which can be defined as fol- regardless of how much additional expiratory effort the lows. When a person expires with great force, the expi- person exerts, this is still the maximum flow rate that he ratory airflow reaches a maximum flow beyond which or she can achieve. the flow cannot be increased any more, even with greatly Note also that as the lung volume becomes smaller, increased additional force. This is the maximum expira- the maximum expiratory flow rate also becomes less. The tory flow. The maximum expiratory flow is much greater main reason for this phenomenon is that in the enlarged when the lungs are filled with a large volume of air than lung, the bronchi and bronchioles are held open partially when they are almost empty. These principles can be by way of elastic pull on their outsides by lung structural understood by referring to Figure 43- 1. elements. However, as the lung becomes smaller, these Figure 43- 1A shows the effect of increased pressure structures are relaxed so that the bronchi and bronchioles applied to the outsides of the alveoli and air passageways are collapsed more easily by external chest pressure, thus caused by compressing the chest cage. The arrows indi- progressively reducing the maximum expiratory flow rate cate that the same pressure compresses the outsides of as well. the alveoli and bronchioles. Therefore, not only does this pressure force air from the alveoli toward the bronchioles, Abnormalities of the Maximum Expiratory Flow- but it also tends to collapse the bronchioles at the same Volume Curve. Figure 43- 2 shows the normal maximum time, which will oppose movement of air to the exterior. expiratory flow- volume curve, along with two additional Once the bronchioles have almost completely collapsed, flow- volume curves recorded in two types of lung dis- further expiratory force can still increase the alveolar pres- eases: constricted lungs and partial airway obstruction. sure greatly, but it also increases the degree of bronchiolar Note that the constricted lungs have both reduced total collapse and airway resistance by an equal amount, thus lung capacity (TLC) and reduced residual volume (RV). preventing further increase in flow. Therefore, beyond a Furthermore, because the lung cannot expand to a nor- critical degree of expiratory force, a maximum expiratory mal maximum volume, even with the greatest
