Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


increase in flow. Therefore, beyond a Furthermore, because the lung cannot expand to a nor- critical degree of expiratory force, a maximum expiratory mal maximum volume, even with the greatest possible ex- flow has been reached. piratory effort, the maximal expiratory flow cannot rise to Figure 43- 1B shows the effect of different degrees of equal that of the normal curve. Constricted lung diseases lung collapse (and therefore also of bronchiolar collapse) include fibrotic diseases of the lung, such as tuberculosis and silicosis, and diseases that constrict the chest cage, such as kyphosis, scoliosis, and fibrotic pleurisy. In diseases with airway obstruction, it is usually much A more difficult to expire than to inspire because the closing tendency of the airways is greatly increased by the extra positive pressure required in the chest to cause expiration. 500 By contrast, the extra negative pleural pressure that occurs during inspiration actually “pulls” the airways open at the 400 M axi 500 m u 300 m Airway ex pir 400 obstruction at 200 ory fl 300 Normal o w 100 Total lung Residual 200 capacity volume Constricted lungs 0 100 B 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 TLC RV Lung volume (liters) 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Figure 43- 1. A, Collapse of the respiratory passageway during maxi- Lung volume (liters) mum expiratory effort, an effect that limits expiratory flow rate. B, Effect of lung volume on the maximum expiratory airflow, showing Figure 43- 2. Effect of two respiratory abnormalities—constricted decreasing maximum expiratory airflow as the lung volume becomes lungs and airway obstruction—on the maximum expiratory flow- smaller. volume curve. RV, Residual volume; TLC, total lung capacity. 542 )nim/L( wolf ria yrotaripxE )nim/L( wolf ria yrotaripxE Chapter 43 Respiratory Insufficiency—Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, Oxygen Therapy same time that it expands the alveoli. Therefore, air tends to normal value. In the normal person (see Figure 43- 3A), enter the lung easily but then becomes trapped in the lungs. the percentage of the FVC that is expired in the first sec- Over a period of months or years, this effect increases both ond divided by the total FVC (FEV /FVC%) is 80%. How- 1 the TLC and RV, as shown by the green curve in Figure ever, note in Figure 43- 3B that with airway obstruction, 43- 2. Also, because of the obstruction of the airways, and this value decreases to only
