Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


green curve in Figure ever, note in Figure 43- 3B that with airway obstruction, 43- 2. Also, because of the obstruction of the airways, and this value decreases to only 47%. In persons with serious because they collapse more easily than normal airways, the airway obstruction, as often occurs with acute asthma, maximum expiratory flow rate is greatly reduced. this value can decrease to less than 20%. The classic disease that causes severe airway obstruc- tion is asthma. Serious airway obstruction also occurs in PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF SPECIFIC some stages of emphysema. PULMONARY ABNORMALITIES FORCED EXPIRATORY VITAL CAPACITY CHRONIC PULMONARY EMPHYSEMA AND FORCED EXPIRATORY VOLUME The term pulmonary emphysema literally means excess Another useful clinical pulmonary test, and one that air in the lungs. However, this term is usually used to is also easy to perform, is to record the forced expiratory describe a complex obstructive and destructive process vital capacity (FVC) on a spirometer. Such a recording is of the lungs caused by many years of smoking. It results shown in Figure 43- 3A for a person with normal lungs from the following major pathophysiological changes in and in Figure 43- 3B for a person with partial airway the lungs: obstruction. In performing the FVC maneuver, the per- 1. Chronic infection, caused by inhaling smoke or son first inspires maximally to the TLC and then exhales other substances that irritate the bronchi and bron- into the spirometer with maximum expiratory effort as chioles. The chronic infection seriously deranges rapidly and as completely as possible. The total distance of the normal protective mechanisms of the airways, the downslope of the lung volume record represents the including partial paralysis of the cilia of the res- FVC, as shown in the figure. piratory epithelium, an effect caused by nicotine. Now, study the difference between the two records for As a result, mucus cannot be moved easily out of (1) normal lungs and (2) partial airway obstruction. The the passageways. Also, stimulation of excess mu- total volume changes of the FVCs are not greatly differ- cus secretion occurs, which further exacerbates the ent, indicating only a moderate difference in basic lung condition. There is also inhibition of the alveolar volumes in the two persons. There is, however, a major macrophages, so they become less effective in com- difference in the amounts of air that these persons can bating infection. expire each second, especially during
