Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


There is, however, a major macrophages, so they become less effective in com- difference in the amounts of air that these persons can bating infection. expire each second, especially during the first second. 2. The infection, excess mucus, and inflammatory Therefore, it is customary to compare the recorded forced edema of the bronchiolar epithelium together cause expiratory volume during the first second (FEV ) with the chronic obstruction of many of the smaller airways. 1 3. The obstruction of the airways makes it especially difficult to expire, thus causing entrapment of air Normal Maximum in the alveoli and overstretching them. This effect, inspiration combined with the lung infection, causes marked 4 destruction of as much as 50% to 80% of the alveolar FEV 3 1 walls. Therefore, the final picture of the emphyse- 2 FVC FEV /FVC% matous lung is that shown in Figure 43- 4 (top) and 1 = 1 80% 43- 5. 0 The physiological effects of chronic emphysema are A 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 variable, depending on the severity of the disease and the relative degrees of bronchiolar obstruction versus lung Airway Obstruction 4 parenchymal destruction. The different abnormalities include the following: 3 FEV 1 1. The bronchiolar obstruction increases airway resist- 2 FEV 1/FVC% FVC ance and results in greatly increased work of breath- 1 = 47% ing. It is especially difficult for the person to move 0 air through the bronchioles during expiration be- 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 B cause the compressive force on the outside of the Seconds lung not only compresses the alveoli but also com- Figure 43-3 . Recordings during the forced vital capacity maneuver in presses the bronchioles, which further increases a healthy person (A) and in a person with partial airway obstruction their resistance during expiration. (B). (The “zero” on the volume scale is residual volume.) FEV , Forced 1 expiratory volume during the first second; FVC, forced expiratory vital 2. The marked loss of alveolar walls greatly decreases capacity. the diffusing capacity of the lung. This reduces the 543 )sretil( egnahc emulov gnuL UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration ability of the lungs to oxygenate the blood and re- ventilation, with both effects occurring in the same move CO from the blood. lungs. 2 3. The obstructive process is frequently much worse in 4. Loss of large portions of the alveolar walls
