Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


effects occurring in the same move CO from the blood. lungs. 2 3. The obstructive process is frequently much worse in 4. Loss of large portions of the alveolar walls also some parts of the lungs than in other parts, so some decreases the number of pulmonary capillaries portions of the lungs are well ventilated, whereas through which blood can pass. As a result, the pul- other portions are poorly ventilated. This situa- monary vascular resistance often increases marked- tion often causes extremely abnormal ventilation- ly, causing pulmonary hypertension, which in turn . . perfusion ratios, with a very low V / Q in some overloads the right side of the heart and frequently A parts (physiological shunt), resulting in poor aera- causes right- sided heart failure. . . tion of the blood, and a very high V / Q in other Chronic emphysema usually progresses slowly over A parts (physiological dead space), resulting in wasted many years. Both hypoxia and hypercapnia develop because of hypoventilation of many alveoli plus loss of alveolar walls. The net result of all these effects is severe, prolonged, devastating air hunger that can last for years until the hypoxia and hypercapnia cause death—a high penalty to pay for smoking. PNEUMONIA—LUNG INFLAMMATION AND FLUID IN ALVEOLI The term pneumonia includes any inflammatory condi- tion of the lung in which some or all of the alveoli are filled with fluid and blood cells, as shown in Figure 43- 5. A common type of pneumonia is bacterial pneu- monia, caused most frequently by pneumococci. This dis- ease begins with infection in the alveoli; the pulmonary membrane becomes inflamed and highly porous so that fluid and even red and white blood cells leak out of the blood into the alveoli. Thus, the infected alveoli become progressively filled with fluid and cells, and the infection spreads by extension of bacteria or virus from alveolus to alveolus. Eventually, large areas of the lungs, sometimes whole lobes or even a whole lung, become “consolidated,” which means that they are filled with fluid and cellular debris. In persons with pneumonia, the gas exchange func- tions of the lungs decline in different stages of the dis- ease. In early stages, the pneumonia process might well be localized to only one lung, with alveolar ventilation Figure 43- 4. Contrast of the emphysematous lung (top) with the being reduced while blood flow through the lung
