Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


might well be localized to only one lung, with alveolar ventilation Figure 43- 4. Contrast of the emphysematous lung (top) with the being reduced while blood flow through the lung contin- normal lung (bottom) showing extensive alveolar destruction in em- ues normally. This condition causes two major pulmonary physema. (Courtesy Patricia Delaney and the Department of Anato- my, The Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI.) abnormalities: (1) reduction in the total available surface area of the respiratory membrane; and (2) a decreased Fluid and blood cells Confluent alveoli Edema Normal Pneumonia Emphysema Figure 43- 5. Lung alveolar changes in pneumonia and emphysema. 544 Chapter 43 Respiratory Insufficiency—Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, Oxygen Therapy ventilation- perfusion ratio. Both these effects cause not only occludes the alveoli but also almost always hypoxemia (low blood O ) and hypercapnia (high blood increases the resistance to blood flow through the pul- 2 CO ). monary vessels of the collapsed lung. This resistance 2 Figure 43- 6 shows the effect of the decreased increase occurs partially because of the lung collapse, ventilation- perfusion ratio in pneumonia. The blood which compresses and folds the vessels as the volume passing through the aerated lung becomes 97% saturated of the lung decreases. In addition, hypoxia in the col- with O , whereas that passing through the unaerated lung lapsed alveoli causes additional vasoconstriction, as 2 is about 60% saturated. Therefore, the average saturation explained in Chapter 39. of the blood pumped by the left heart into the aorta is only Because of the vascular constriction, blood flow about 78%, which is far below normal. through the atelectatic lung is greatly reduced. Fortu- nately, most of the blood is routed through the ven- ATELECTASIS—COLLAPSE OF THE ALVEOLI tilated lung and therefore becomes well aerated. In the situation shown in Figure 43-7 , five-sixths of the Atelectasis means collapse of the alveoli. It can occur in blood passes through the aerated lung, and only one- localized areas of a lung or in an entire lung. Common sixth passes through the unaerated lung. As a result, causes of atelectasis are (1) total obstruction of the airway the overall ventilation- perfusion ratio is only moder- and (2) lack of surfactant in the fluids lining the alveoli. ately compromised, so the aortic blood has only mild O desaturation, despite total loss of ventilation in an 2 Airway Obstruction Causes Lung Collapse. The airway entire lung. obstruction
