Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


alveoli. ately compromised, so the aortic blood has only mild O desaturation, despite total loss of ventilation in an 2 Airway Obstruction Causes Lung Collapse. The airway entire lung. obstruction type of atelectasis usually results from the fol- lowing: (1) blockage of many small bronchi with mucus; Lack of “Surfactant” as a Cause of Lung Collapse. or (2) obstruction of a major bronchus by a large mucous The secretion and function of surfactant in the alveoli were plug or some solid object, such as a tumor. The air en- discussed in Chapter 38. Surfactant is secreted by special trapped beyond the block is absorbed within minutes to alveolar epithelial cells into the fluids that coat the inside hours by the blood flowing in the pulmonary capillaries. surface of the alveoli. The surfactant in turn decreases the If the lung tissue is pliable enough, this will lead simply surface tension in the alveoli by 2- to 10-fold, which nor- to collapse of the alveoli. However, if the lung is rigid be- mally plays a major role in preventing alveolar collapse. cause of fibrotic tissue and cannot collapse, absorption of However, in several conditions, such as in hyaline mem- air from the alveoli creates very negative pressures within brane disease (also called respiratory distress syndrome), the alveoli, which pull fluid out of the pulmonary capil- which often occurs in newborn premature babies, the laries into the alveoli, thus causing the alveoli to fill com- quantity of surfactant secreted by the alveoli is so greatly pletely with edema fluid. This process almost always is the depressed that the surface tension of the alveolar fluid be- effect that occurs when an entire lung becomes atelectat- comes several times greater than normal. This surfactant ic, a condition called massive collapse of the lung. deficiency causes a serious tendency for the lungs of these The effects on overall pulmonary function caused babies to collapse or to become filled with fluid. As ex- by massive collapse (atelectasis) of an entire lung are plained in Chapter 38, many of these infants die of suffoca- shown in Figure 43-7 . Collapse of the lung tissue tion when large portions of the lungs become atelectatic. Pulmonary arterial blood 60% saturated with O 2 Pulmonary arterial blood 60% saturated with O 2 Pneumonia Atelectasis Right Left pulmonary pulmonary Right Left veins 97% veins 60% pulmonary pulmonary saturated saturated veins 97% veins
