Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with O 2 Pulmonary arterial blood 60% saturated with O 2 Pneumonia Atelectasis Right Left pulmonary pulmonary Right Left veins 97% veins 60% pulmonary pulmonary saturated saturated veins 97% veins 60% saturated saturated: flow 1/5 Aorta: normal Blood 1/2 = 97% Aorta: 1/2 = 60% Blood 5/6 = 97% Mean saturation 1/6 = 60% = 78% Mean saturation = 91% Figure 43-6 . Effect of pneumonia on percentage saturation of oxy- gen (O ) in the pulmonary artery, the right and left pulmonary veins, Figure 43- 7. Effect of atelectasis on aortic blood oxygen (O ) satura- 2 2 and the aorta. tion. 545 UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration ASTHMA—SPASMODIC CONTRACTION OF The functional residual capacity and residual volume SMOOTH MUSCLES IN BRONCHIOLES of the lung become especially increased during an acute asthma attack because of the difficulty in expiring air from Asthma is characterized by spastic contraction of the the lungs. Also, over a period of years, the chest cage smooth muscle in the bronchioles, which partially becomes permanently enlarged, causing a so- called barrel obstructs the bronchioles and causes extremely difficult chest, and both the functional residual capacity and lung breathing. The prevalence of asthma has been increasing residual volume become permanently increased. and affects 7% to 8% of all people in the United States, with even higher rates in some groups such as non- Hispanic TUBERCULOSIS blacks. The World Health Organization estimates that over 235 million people worldwide suffer from asthma, In tuberculosis, the tubercle bacilli cause a peculiar although some estimates of asthma prevalence are as high tissue reaction in the lungs, including (1) invasion as 339 million people. of the infected tissue by macrophages, and (2) “wall- The usual cause of asthma is contractile hypersensitiv- ing off” of the lesion by fibrous tissue to form the so- ity of the bronchioles in response to foreign substances in called tubercle. This walling- off process helps limit the air. In about 70% of patients younger than 30 years, the further transmission of the tubercle bacilli in the lungs asthma is caused by allergic hypersensitivity, especially and therefore is part of the protective process against sensitivity to plant pollens. In older people, the cause is extension of the infection. However, in about 3% of almost always hypersensitivity to nonallergenic types of people in whom tuberculosis develops, if the disease irritants in the air, such as irritants in smog.
