Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


infection. However, in about 3% of almost always hypersensitivity to nonallergenic types of people in whom tuberculosis develops, if the disease irritants in the air, such as irritants in smog. is not treated, the walling- off process fails, and tuber- The typical allergic person tends to form abnormally cle bacilli spread throughout the lungs, often causing large amounts of immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies, extreme destruction of lung tissue, with formation of and these antibodies cause allergic reactions when they large abscess cavities. react with the specific antigens that have caused them Thus, tuberculosis in its late stages is characterized by to develop in the first place, as explained in Chapter 35. many areas of fibrosis throughout the lungs, as well as by In persons with asthma, these antibodies are mainly reduced total amount of functional lung tissue. These effects attached to mast cells that are present in the lung intersti- cause the following: (1) increased “work” on the part of the tium in close association with the bronchioles and small respiratory muscles to cause pulmonary ventilation and bronchi. When an asthmatic person breathes in pollen reduced vital capacity and breathing capacity; (2) reduced to which he or she is sensitive (i.e., to which the person total respiratory membrane surface area and increased thick- has developed IgE antibodies), the pollen reacts with the ness of the respiratory membrane, causing progressively mast cell–attached antibodies and causes the mast cells diminished pulmonary diffusing capacity; and (3) abnormal to release several different substances. Among them are ventilation- perfusion ratio in the lungs, further reducing the following: (1) histamine; (2) slow- reacting substance overall pulmonary diffusion of O and CO . 2 2 of anaphylaxis (which is a mixture of leukotrienes); (3) eosinophilic chemotactic factor; and (4) bradykinin. The HYPOXIA AND OXYGEN THERAPY combined effects of all these factors, especially the slow- reacting substance of anaphylaxis, are to produce the Almost any of the conditions discussed in the past few following: (1) localized edema in the walls of the small sections of this chapter can cause serious cellular hypoxia bronchioles, as well as secretion of thick mucus into the throughout the body. Sometimes O therapy is of great 2 bronchiolar lumens; and (2) spasm of the bronchiolar value, other times it is of moderate value, and at still other smooth muscle. Therefore, the airway resistance increases times it is of almost no value. Therefore, it
