Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the bronchiolar value, other times it is of moderate value, and at still other smooth muscle. Therefore, the airway resistance increases times it is of almost no value. Therefore, it is important greatly. to understand the different types of hypoxia, and then we As discussed earlier in this chapter, the bronchiolar can discuss the physiological principles of oxygen therapy. diameter becomes reduced more during expiration than The following is a descriptive classification of the causes during inspiration in persons with asthma as a result of of hypoxia: bronchiolar collapse during expiratory effort that com- 1. Inadequate oxygenation of the blood in the lungs presses the outsides of the bronchioles. Because the because of extrinsic reasons bronchioles of the asthmatic lungs are already partially a. Deficiency of O in the atmosphere 2 occluded, further occlusion resulting from the external b. Hypoventilation (neuromuscular disorders) pressure creates especially severe obstruction during 2. Pulmonary disease expiration. That is, the asthmatic person often can inspire a. Hypoventilation caused by increased airway re- quite adequately but has great difficulty expiring. Clini- sistance or decreased pulmonary compliance cal measurements show (1) greatly reduced maximum b. Abnormal alveolar ventilation- perfusion ratio expiratory rate, and (2) reduced timed expiratory volume. (including increased physiological dead space or Also, all this together results in dyspnea, or “air hunger,” increased physiological shunt) discussed later in this chapter. c. Diminished respiratory membrane diffusion 546 Chapter 43 Respiratory Insufficiency—Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, Oxygen Therapy 3. Venous- to- arterial shunts (right- to- left cardiac shunts) 300 4. Inadequate O transport to the tissues by the blood 2 a. Anemia or abnormal hemoglobin Alveolar PO2 with tent therapy b. General circulatory deficiency 200 Normal alveolar PO2 c. Localized circulatory deficiency (peripheral, cer- Pulmonary edema + O therapy 2 ebral, coronary vessels) Pulmonary edema with no therapy d. Tissue edema 5. Inadequate tissue capability of using O 2 100 a. Poisoning of cellular oxidation enzymes Capillary blood b. Diminished cellular metabolic capacity for using oxygen because of toxicity, vitamin deficiency, or 0 other factors Arterial end Venous end This classification of the types of hypoxia is mainly self- Blood in pulmonary capillary evident from the discussions earlier in the chapter. Only Figure 43-8 . Absorption of oxygen into the pulmonary capillary one type of hypoxia in the classification needs further blood in pulmonary edema, with and without oxygen tent therapy. elaboration—the hypoxia caused by inadequate capability of the body’s
