Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pulmonary capillary one type of hypoxia in the classification needs further blood in pulmonary edema, with and without oxygen tent therapy. elaboration—the hypoxia caused by inadequate capability of the body’s tissue cells to use O 2. In hypoxia caused by impaired alveolar membrane dif- fusion, essentially the same result occurs as in hypoventi- Inadequate Tissue Capability to Use Oxygen. The lation hypoxia because O therapy can increase the Po in classic cause of inability of the tissues to use O is cyanide 2 2 2 the lung alveoli from the normal value of about 100 mm poisoning, in which the action of the enzyme cytochrome Hg to as high as 600 mm Hg. This action raises the O oxidase is blocked by cyanide to such an extent that the 2 pressure gradient for diffusion of oxygen from the alveoli tissues simply cannot use O , even when plenty is avail- 2 to the blood from the normal value of 60 mm Hg to as able. Also, deficiencies of some of the tissue cellular oxi- high as 560 mm Hg, an increase of more than 800%. This dative enzymes or of other elements in the tissue oxidative highly beneficial effect of O therapy in diffusion hypoxia system can lead to this type of hypoxia. A special example 2 is demonstrated in Figure 43- 8, which shows that the occurs in the disease beriberi, in which several important pulmonary blood in this patient with pulmonary edema steps in tissue utilization of oxygen and the formation of picks up O three to four times as rapidly as would occur CO are compromised because of vitamin B deficiency. 2 2 with no therapy. Effects of Hypoxia on the Body. Hypoxia, if severe In hypoxia caused by anemia, abnormal hemoglobin transport of O , circulatory deficiency, or physiological enough, can cause death of cells throughout the body, 2 shunt, O therapy is of much less value because normal but in less severe degrees, it mainly causes (1) depressed 2 O is already available in the alveoli. Instead, the problem mental activity, sometimes culminating in coma, and (2) 2 is that one or more of the mechanisms for transporting reduced work capacity of the muscles. These effects are oxygen from the lungs to the tissues are deficient. Even so, specifically discussed in Chapter 44 in relation to high- a small amount of extra O , between
