Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


effects are oxygen from the lungs to the tissues are deficient. Even so, specifically discussed in Chapter 44 in relation to high- a small amount of extra O , between 7% and 30%, can be altitude physiology. 2 transported in the dissolved state in the blood when alveo- OXYGEN THERAPY IN DIFFERENT TYPES lar O 2 is increased to maximum, even though the amount OF HYPOXIA transported by the hemoglobin is hardly altered. This small amount of extra O may be the difference between 2 O can be administered by the following: (1) placing the life and death. 2 patient’s head in a “tent” that contains air fortified with In the different types of hypoxia caused by inadequate O ; (2) allowing the patient to breathe pure O or high tissue use of O , there is no abnormality of O pickup by 2 2 2 2 concentrations of O from a mask; or (3) administering the lungs or of transport to the tissues. Instead, the tis- 2 O through an intranasal tube. sue metabolic enzyme system is simply incapable of using 2 Recalling the basic physiological principles of the dif- the O that is delivered. Therefore, O therapy provides no 2 2 ferent types of hypoxia, one can readily decide when O measurable benefit. 2 therapy will be of value and, if so, how valuable. In atmospheric hypoxia, O 2 therapy can completely CYANOSIS correct the depressed O level in the inspired gases and, 2 therefore, provide 100% effective therapy. The term cyanosis means blueness of the skin; its cause In hypoventilation hypoxia, a person breathing 100% is excessive amounts of deoxygenated hemoglobin in the O can move five times as much O into the alveoli with skin blood vessels, especially in the capillaries. This deox- 2 2 each breath as when breathing normal air. Therefore, here ygenated hemoglobin has an intense dark blue–purple again, O therapy can be extremely beneficial. However, color that is transmitted through the skin. 2 this O therapy provides no benefit for the excess blood In general, definite cyanosis appears whenever the arte- 2 CO also caused by the hypoventilation. rial blood contains more than 5 grams of deoxygenated 2 547 )gH mm( doolb dna iloevla ni 2OP UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration hemoglobin in each 100 ml of blood. A person with ane- At least three factors often enter into the development mia
