Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


dna iloevla ni 2OP UNIT VII UNIT VII Respiration hemoglobin in each 100 ml of blood. A person with ane- At least three factors often enter into the development mia almost never becomes cyanotic because there is not of the sensation of dyspnea: (1) abnormality of respiratory enough hemoglobin for 5 grams to be deoxygenated in gases in the body fluids, especially hypercapnia and, to a 100 ml of arterial blood. Conversely, in a person with much less extent, hypoxia; (2) the amount of work that excess red blood cells, as in polycythemia vera, the great must be performed by the respiratory muscles to provide excess of available hemoglobin that can become deoxy- adequate ventilation; and (3) state of mind. genated leads frequently to cyanosis, even under other- A person becomes especially dyspneic from excess wise normal conditions. buildup of CO in the body fluids. At times, however, the 2 levels of both CO and O in the body fluids are normal 2 2 HYPERCAPNIA—EXCESS CARBON but, to attain this normality of the respiratory gases, the DIOXIDE IN THE BODY FLUIDS person has to breathe forcefully. In these cases, the force- ful activity of the respiratory muscles frequently gives the One might suspect, on first thought, that any respiratory person a sensation of dyspnea. condition that causes hypoxia would also cause hypercap- Most people have the sensation of severe dyspnea after nia. However, hypercapnia usually occurs in association only 1 to 2 minutes of voluntary breath- holding (apnea). with hypoxia only when the hypoxia is caused by hypoven- However, as discussed in Chapter 42, some individuals tilation or circulatory deficiency for the following reasons. can train themselves to suppress respiratory urges for Hypoxia caused by too little O in the air, too little hemo- more than 10 minutes, despite buildup of CO and very 2 2 globin, or poisoning of the oxidative enzymes involves only low O in the body fluids. 2 the availability of O or use of O by the tissues. Therefore, Finally, dyspnea may be experienced because of an 2 2 it is readily understandable that hypercapnia is not associ- abnormal state of mind, even though the person’s respira- ated with these types of hypoxia. tory functions, as well as CO and O in the body fluids, 2 2 In hypoxia resulting from poor diffusion through the may be normal. This condition is called neurogenic dys- pulmonary
