Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as well as CO and O in the body fluids, 2 2 In hypoxia resulting from poor diffusion through the may be normal. This condition is called neurogenic dys- pulmonary membrane or the tissues, serious hypercapnia pnea or emotional dyspnea. For example, almost anyone usually does not occur at the same time because CO dif- momentarily thinking about the act of breathing may sud- 2 fuses 20 times as rapidly as O . If hypercapnia does begin denly start taking breaths a little more deeply than ordi- 2 to occur, this immediately stimulates pulmonary ventila- narily because of a feeling of mild dyspnea. This feeling tion, which corrects the hypercapnia but not necessarily is greatly enhanced in people who have a psychological the hypoxia. fear of not being able to receive a sufficient quantity of air, Conversely, in hypoxia caused by hypoventilation, such as when entering a small or crowded room. CO transfer between the alveoli and the atmosphere is 2 affected as much as O 2 transfer. Hypercapnia then occurs ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION along with the hypoxia. In circulatory deficiency, dimin- ished flow of blood decreases CO removal from the tis- 2 sues, resulting in tissue hypercapnia in addition to tissue Resuscitator. Many types of respiratory resuscitators are hypoxia. However, the transport capacity of the blood for available, and each has its own characteristic principles CO 2 is more than three times that for O 2, and thus the of operation. The resuscitator shown in Figure 43- 9A resulting tissue hypercapnia is much less than the tissue consists of a tank supply of O or air, a mechanism for 2 hypoxia. applying intermittent positive pressure and, with some When the alveolar Pco rises above about 60 to 75 machines, negative pressure as well, and a mask that fits 2 mm Hg, an otherwise normal person by then is breath- over the face of the patient or a connector for joining the ing about as rapidly and deeply as he or she can, and air equipment to an endotracheal tube. This apparatus forces hunger, also called dyspnea, becomes severe. air through the mask or endotracheal tube into the lungs If the Pco rises to 80 to 100 mm Hg, the person of the patient during the positive- pressure cycle of the re- 2 becomes lethargic and sometimes even semicomatose. suscitator and then usually allows the air to flow passively Anesthesia and
