Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the patient during the positive- pressure cycle of the re- 2 becomes lethargic and sometimes even semicomatose. suscitator and then usually allows the air to flow passively Anesthesia and death can result when the Pco rises to out of the lungs during the remainder of the cycle. 2 120 to 150 mm Hg. At these higher levels of Pco , the Earlier resuscitators often caused damage to the lungs 2 excess CO now begins to depress respiration rather than because of excessive positive pressure. Their usage was 2 stimulate it, thus causing a vicious circle: (1) more CO , at one time greatly decried. However, resuscitators now 2 (2) further decrease in respiration, (3) then more CO , have adjustable positive- pressure limits that are com- 2 and so forth—culminating rapidly in a respiratory death. monly set at 12 to 15 cm H O pressure for normal lungs, 2 but sometimes much higher for noncompliant lungs. DYSPNEA Tank Respirator (the “Iron Lung”). Figure 43- 9B shows Dyspnea means mental anguish associated with inability the tank respirator with a patient’s body inside the tank to ventilate enough to satisfy the demand for air. A com- and the head protruding through a flexible but airtight mon synonym is air hunger. collar. At the end of the tank, opposite the patient’s head, 548 Chapter 43 Respiratory Insufficiency—Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, Oxygen Therapy impeded. As a result, use of excessive pressures with the resuscitator or tank respirator can reduce the cardiac out- put, sometimes to lethal levels. For example, continuous Mechanism exposure for more than a few minutes to more than 30- for applying mm Hg positive pressure in the lungs can cause death be- positive and negative cause of inadequate venous return to the heart. pressure A Bibliography Positive Negative Barnes PJ: Targeting cytokines to treat asthma and chronic obstruc- pressure pressure tive pulmonary disease. Nat Rev Immunol 18:454, 2018. valve valve Barnes PJ: Cellular and molecular mechanisms of asthma and COPD. Clin Sci (Lond) 131:1541, 2017. Celli BR: Pharmacological therapy of COPD: reasons for optimism. Chest 154:1404, 2018. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Asthma Surveillance Data. (accessed June 22, 2019). asthmadata.htm. Furin J, Cox H, Pai M: Tuberculosis. Lancet 393:1642, 2019. Hogg JC, Paré PD, Hackett TL: The contribution of small airway ob- struction to the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary dis- ease. Physiol Rev 97:529, 2017. B Leather diaphragm Krishnamoorthy N,
