Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is breathing air. In addition, because Chemoreceptors. Immediate exposure to low Po stim- 2 an unacclimatized person usually can remain conscious ulates the arterial chemoreceptors, and this stimulation until the arterial O saturation falls to 50%, the ceiling increases alveolar ventilation to a maximum of about 1.65 2 for an aviator for short exposure times in an unpressur- times normal. Therefore, compensation occurs within ized airplane when breathing air is about 23,000 feet and, seconds for the high altitude, and this alone allows the 554 )tnecrep( noitarutas negyxo lairetrA Chapter 44 Aviation, High Altitude, and Space Physiology person to rise several thousand feet higher than would be Part of the increase results from increased pulmonary possible without the increased ventilation. If the person capillary blood volume, which expands the capillaries and remains at a very high altitude for several days, the chem- increases the surface area through which O can diffuse 2 oreceptors increase ventilation still more, up to about five into the blood. Another part of this increase results from times normal. an increase in lung air volume, which expands the sur- The immediate increase in pulmonary ventilation on face area of the alveolar- capillary interface still more. A rising to a high altitude blows off large quantities of CO , final part results from an increase in pulmonary arterial 2 reducing the Pco and increasing the pH of the body blood pressure, which forces blood into greater numbers 2 fluids. These changes inhibit the brain stem respiratory of alveolar capillaries than normal, especially in the upper center and thereby oppose the effect of low Po to stimu- parts of the lungs, which are poorly perfused under usual 2 late respiration via the peripheral arterial chemoreceptors conditions. in the carotid and aortic bodies. However, this inhibition fades away during the ensuing 2 to 5 days, allowing the Peripheral Circulatory System Changes During Accli- respiratory center to respond with full force to the periph- matization—Increased Tissue Capillarity. The cardiac eral chemoreceptor stimulus from hypoxia, and ventila- output often increases as much as 30% immediately af- tion increases to about five times normal. ter a person ascends to a high altitude but then decreases The cause of this fading inhibition is believed to be back toward normal over a period of weeks as the blood mainly a reduction of bicarbonate ion concentration in hematocrit increases, so the amount of O transported
