Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


believed to be back toward normal over a period of weeks as the blood mainly a reduction of bicarbonate ion concentration in hematocrit increases, so the amount of O transported to 2 the cerebrospinal fluid, as well as in the brain tissues. This the peripheral body tissues remains about normal. reduction, in turn, decreases the pH in the fluids sur- Another circulatory adaptation is growth of increased rounding the chemosensitive neurons of the respiratory numbers of systemic circulatory capillaries in the non- center, thus increasing the respiratory stimulatory activity pulmonary tissues, called angiogenesis. This adaptation of the center. occurs especially in animals born and bred at high alti- An important mechanism for the gradual decrease in tudes but less so in animals that become exposed to high bicarbonate concentration is compensation by the kid- altitudes later in life. neys for the respiratory alkalosis, as discussed in Chapter In active tissues exposed to chronic hypoxia, the 31. The kidneys respond to decreased Pco by reduc- increase in capillarity is especially marked. For example, 2 ing hydrogen ion secretion and increasing bicarbonate capillary density in right ventricular muscle increases excretion. This metabolic compensation for the respira- markedly because of the combined effects of hypoxia and tory alkalosis gradually reduces plasma and cerebrospinal excess workload on the right ventricle caused by pulmo- fluid bicarbonate concentrations and pH toward normal nary hypertension at high altitude. and removes part of the inhibitory effect on respiration of a low hydrogen ion concentration. Thus, the respira- Cellular Acclimatization. In animals native to altitudes tory centers are much more responsive to the peripheral of 13,000 to 17,000 feet, cell mitochondria and cellular chemoreceptor stimulus caused by the hypoxia after the oxidative enzyme systems are slightly more plentiful than kidneys compensate for the alkalosis. in sea level inhabitants. Therefore, it is presumed that the tissue cells of high altitude–acclimatized human beings Increase in Red Blood Cells and Hemoglobin Con- also can use O more effectively than can their sea level 2 centration During Acclimatization. As discussed in counterparts. Chapter 33, hypoxia is a major stimulus for increasing red HYPOXIA- INDUCIBLE FACTORS—A blood cell production. Ordinarily, when a person remains “MASTER SWITCH” FOR THE BODY’S exposed to low O 2 for weeks at a time, the hematocrit RESPONSE TO HYPOXIA rises slowly from a normal value of 40% to 45% to an aver- age of about 60%, with an average
