Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Figure 44- 2. Oxygen- hemoglobin dissociation curves for blood of low arterial Po , indicating that O transport to the tis- 2 2 high- altitude residents (red curve) and sea level residents (blue curve) sues is exceedingly effective in the naturally acclimatized showing the respective arterial and venous Po2 levels and oxygen high-a ltitude natives. contents as recorded in their native surroundings. (Data from Pan American Health Organization. Oxygen-d issociation curves for bloods REDUCED WORK CAPACITY AT HIGH of high- altitude and sea-l evel residents. Life at high altitudes. Wash- ALTITUDES AND POSITIVE EFFECT OF ington, DC: Pan American Health Organization Scientific Publication ACCLIMATIZATION No. 140, 1966.) In addition to the mental depression caused by hypoxia, • Glycolytic enzyme genes involved with anaerobic the work capacity of all muscles, cardiac as well as skel- metabolism etal muscle, is greatly decreased in a state of hypoxia. In • Genes that increase availability of nitric oxide, which general, work capacity is reduced in direct proportion to causes pulmonary vasodilation the decrease in maximum rate of O uptake that the body 2 In the presence of adequate oxygen, the subunits of can achieve. HIF required to activate various genes are downregulated To give an idea of the importance of acclimatization in and inactivated by specific HIF hydroxylases. In hypoxia, increasing work capacity, consider the large differences in the HIF hydroxylases are themselves inactive, allowing work capacities as a percentage of normal for unacclima- the formation of a transcriptionally active HIF complex. tized and acclimatized people at an altitude of 17,000 feet, Thus, the HIFs serve as a “master switch” that permits the shown in Table 44- 2. Thus, naturally acclimatized native body to respond appropriately to hypoxia. persons can achieve a daily work output even at a high NATURAL ACCLIMATIZATION OF NATIVE altitude almost equal to that of a lowlander at sea level, PEOPLE LIVING AT HIGH ALTITUDES but even well- acclimatized lowlanders can almost never achieve this result. Many native people in the Andes and in the Himalayas ACUTE MOUNTAIN SICKNESS AND HIGH- live at altitudes above 13,000 feet. One group in the Peru- ALTITUDE PULMONARY EDEMA vian Andes lives at an altitude of 17,500 feet and works in a mine at an altitude of 19,000 feet. Many of these natives A small percentage of people who ascend rapidly to high are born at these high altitudes and live there all their
