Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


an altitude of 19,000 feet. Many of these natives A small percentage of people who ascend rapidly to high are born at these high altitudes and live there all their altitudes become acutely sick and can die if not given O 2 lives. They are superior to even the best-a cclimatized or rapidly moved to a low altitude. The sickness begins lowlanders in all aspects of acclimatization, even though from a few hours up to about 2 days after ascent. Two the lowlanders might have lived at high altitudes for 10 events frequently occur: or more years. Acclimatization of the natives begins in 1. Acute cerebral edema. This edema is believed to infancy. The chest size, especially, is greatly increased, result from local vasodilation of the cerebral blood whereas the body size is somewhat decreased, giving a vessels, which is caused by the hypoxia. Dilation of high ratio of ventilatory capacity to body mass. The hearts the arterioles increases blood flow into the capillar- of natives, which from birth onward pump extra amounts ies, thus increasing capillary pressure, which in turn of cardiac output, are also considerably larger than the causes fluid to leak into the cerebral tissues. Chemi- hearts of lowlanders. cal factors such as vascular endothelial growth fac- Delivery of O 2 by the blood to the tissues is also highly tor and inflammatory cytokines may also contribute facilitated in these natives. For example, Figure 44-2 to edema by increasing endothelial cell permeabil- shows O 2- hemoglobin dissociation curves for natives ity. The cerebral edema can then lead to severe diso- who live at sea level and for their counterparts who live rientation and other effects related to cerebral dys- at 15,000 feet. Note that the arterial Po 2 in the natives function. 556 )% lov( doolb ni negyxo fo ytitnauQ Chapter 44 Aviation, High Altitude, and Space Physiology 2. Acute pulmonary edema. The cause of acute pul- Effects of Acceleratory Forces on the Body in Aviation and Space Physiology monary edema is still uncertain, but may be ex- plained by the following. The severe hypoxia caus- Because of rapid changes in velocity and direction of mo- es the pulmonary arterioles to constrict powerfully, tion in airplanes or spacecraft, several types of acceleratory but the constriction is much greater in some parts forces affect the body during flight. At the beginning of of the lungs than in other
