Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


spacecraft, several types of acceleratory but the constriction is much greater in some parts forces affect the body during flight. At the beginning of of the lungs than in other parts, so more and more flight, simple linear acceleration occurs, at the end of flight, of the pulmonary blood flow is forced through few- deceleration occurs, and every time the vehicle turns, cen- er and fewer still unconstricted pulmonary vessels. trifugal acceleration occurs. The postulated result is that the capillary pressure Centrifugal Acceleratory Forces in these areas of the lungs becomes especially high, When an airplane makes a turn, the force of centrifugal ac- and local edema occurs. Extension of the process celeration is determined by the following relationship: to progressively more areas of the lungs leads to mv2 spreading pulmonary edema and severe pulmo- f= nary dysfunction that can be lethal. Allowing the r person to breathe O usually reverses the process in which f is centrifugal acceleratory force, m is the mass 2 within hours. The same chemical factors that have of the object, v is velocity of travel, and r is the radius of been suggested to increase capillary permeability curvature of the turn. From this formula, it is obvious that as the velocity increases, the force of centrifugal accelera- in the brain may also contribute to increased pul- tion increases in proportion to the square of the velocity. It monary capillary permeability and edema in the is also obvious that the force of acceleration is directly pro- lungs. portional to the sharpness of the turn (the less the radius). CHRONIC MOUNTAIN SICKNESS Measurement of Acceleratory Force—“G.” When an aviator is simply sitting in his seat, the force with which he Occasionally, a person who remains at a high altitude too or she is pressing against the seat results from the pull of long experiences chronic mountain sickness, in which the gravity and is equal to the person’s weight. The intensity following effects occur: of this force is said to be +1 G because it is equal to the 1. The red blood cell mass and hematocrit become ex- pull of gravity. If the force with which the person presses ceptionally high. against the seat becomes five times the normal weight 2. The pulmonary arterial pressure becomes elevated during pull- out from a dive, the force acting on the seat even more than the normal elevation that
