Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


times the normal weight 2. The pulmonary arterial pressure becomes elevated during pull- out from a dive, the force acting on the seat even more than the normal elevation that occurs is +5 G. If the airplane goes through an outside loop so that the during acclimatization. person is held down by the seat belt, negative G is applied 3. The right side of the heart becomes greatly enlarged. to the body. If the force with which the person is held down 4. The peripheral arterial pressure begins to fall. by the seat belt is equal to the weight of the body, the nega- 5. Congestive heart failure ensues. tive force is −1 G. 6. Death often follows unless the person is moved to a Effects of Centrifugal Acceleratory Force on the lower altitude. Body (Positive G) There are probably three main causes of this sequence of events: Effects on the Circulatory System. The most important 1. The red blood cell mass becomes so great that the effect of centrifugal acceleration is on the circulatory sys- blood viscosity increases severalfold. This increased tem because blood is mobile and can be translocated by viscosity tends to decrease tissue blood flow so that centrifugal forces. O delivery also begins to decrease. When an aviator is subjected to positive G, blood is cen- 2 trifuged toward the lowermost part of the body. Thus, if the 2. The pulmonary arterioles become vasoconstricted centrifugal acceleratory force is +5 G and the person is in an because of the lung hypoxia. This vasoconstriction immobilized standing position, the pressure in the veins of results from the hypoxic vascular constrictor effect the feet becomes greatly increased (to ≈450 mm Hg). In the that normally operates to divert blood flow from sitting position, the pressure becomes nearly 300 mm Hg. In low- O to high-O alveoli, as explained in Chapter 2 2 addition, as pressure in the vessels of the lower body increas- 39. However, because all the alveoli are now in the es, these vessels passively dilate so that a major portion of low- O 2 state, all the arterioles become constricted, the blood from the upper body is translocated into the lower the pulmonary arterial pressure rises excessively, vessels. Because the heart cannot pump unless blood returns and the right side of the heart fails. to it, the greater the quantity of blood “pooled” in this way
