Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


excessively, vessels. Because the heart cannot pump unless blood returns and the right side of the heart fails. to it, the greater the quantity of blood “pooled” in this way 3. The alveolar arteriolar spasm diverts much of the in the lower body, the less is available for the cardiac output. blood flow through nonalveolar pulmonary vessels, Figure 44- 3 shows the changes in systolic and diastolic arterial pressures (top and bottom curves, respectively) in thus causing an excess of pulmonary shunt blood the upper body when a centrifugal acceleratory force of flow where the blood is poorly oxygenated, which +3.3 G is suddenly applied to a sitting person. Note that further compounds the problem. Most people with both these pressures fall below 22 mm Hg for the first few this condition recover within days or weeks when seconds after the acceleration begins but then return to a they are moved to a lower altitude. 557 UNIT VIII UNIT VIII Aviation, Space, and Deep-Sea Diving Physiology 10 100 8 50 6 0 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Time from start of G to symptoms 4 (sec) Figure 44- 3. Changes in systolic (top of curve) and diastolic (bottom 2 of curve) arterial pressures after abrupt and continuing exposure of a sitting person to an acceleratory force from top to bottom of 3.3 G. First Second Space booster booster ship (Data from Martin EE, Henry JP: Effects of time and temperature upon 0 tolerance to positive acceleration. J Aviation Med 22:382, 1951.) 0 1 2 3 4 5 Minutes Figure 44- 4. Acceleratory forces during takeoff of a spacecraft. systolic pressure of about 55 mm Hg and a diastolic pres- sure of 20 mm Hg within another 10 to 15 seconds. This secondary recovery is caused mainly by activation of the “anti- G” suits have been developed to prevent pooling of baroreceptor reflexes. blood in the lower abdomen and legs. The simplest of these Acceleration greater than 4 to 6 G causes “blackout” of applies positive pressure to the legs and abdomen by inflat- vision within a few seconds and unconsciousness shortly ing compression bags as the G force increases. thereafter. If this great degree of acceleration is continued, Theoretically, a pilot submerged in a tank or suit of wa- the person will die. ter might experience little effect of G forces on the circula- Effects on the Vertebrae.
