Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Theoretically, a pilot submerged in a tank or suit of wa- the person will die. ter might experience little effect of G forces on the circula- Effects on the Vertebrae. Extremely high acceleratory tion because the pressures developed in the water pressing forces for even a fraction of a second can fracture the ver- on the outside of the body during centrifugal acceleration tebrae. The degree of positive acceleration that the average would almost exactly balance the forces acting in the body. person can withstand in the sitting position before verte- However, the presence of air in the lungs still allows for dis- bral fracture occurs is about 20 G. placement of the heart, lung tissues, and diaphragm into Negative G. The effects of negative G on the body are seriously abnormal positions despite submersion in water. Therefore, even if this procedure were used, the limit of less dramatic acutely but possibly more damaging perma- safety almost certainly would still be less than 10 G. nently than the effects of positive G. An aviator can usually go through outside loops up to negative acceleratory forces Effects of Linear Acceleratory Forces on the Body of −4 to −5 G without causing permanent harm, although causing intense momentary hyperemia of the head. Occa- Acceleratory Forces in Space Travel. Unlike an airplane, sionally, psychotic disturbances lasting for 15 to 20 minutes a spacecraft cannot make rapid turns, and therefore cen- occur as a result of brain edema. trifugal acceleration is of little importance except when the Occasionally, negative G forces can be so great (e.g., spacecraft goes into abnormal gyrations. However, blast-o ff −20 G), and centrifugation of the blood into the head is so acceleration and landing deceleration can be tremendous; great, that the cerebral blood pressure reaches 300 to 400 both are types of linear acceleration, with one being posi- mm Hg, sometimes causing small vessels on the surface of tive and the other negative. the head and in the brain to rupture. However, the vessels Figure 44- 4 shows an approximate profile of accelera- inside the cranium show less tendency for rupture than tion during blastoff in a three- stage spacecraft, demon- would be expected for the following reason. The cerebro- strating that the first- stage booster causes acceleration as spinal fluid is centrifuged toward the head at the same time high as 9 G and the second- stage booster
