Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cerebro- strating that the first- stage booster causes acceleration as spinal fluid is centrifuged toward the head at the same time high as 9 G and the second- stage booster as high as 8 G. that blood is centrifuged toward the cranial vessels, and the In the standing position, the human body could not with- greatly increased pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid acts as stand this much acceleration, but in a semireclining posi- a cushioning buffer on the outside of the brain to prevent tion transverse to the axis of acceleration, this amount of intracerebral vascular rupture. acceleration can be withstood easily, despite the fact that Because the eyes are not protected by the cranium, in- the acceleratory forces continue for as long as several min- tense hyperemia occurs in them during strong negative G. utes at a time. Therefore, the reason for the reclining seats As a result, the eyes often become temporarily blinded with used by astronauts can be understood. what is called redout. Problems also occur during deceleration when the Protection of the Body Against Centrifugal Accelera- spacecraft re- enters the atmosphere. A person traveling at tory Forces. Specific procedures and apparatus have been Mach 1 (the speed of sound and of fast airplanes) can be safely decelerated in a distance of about 0.12 mile, whereas developed to protect aviators against the circulatory col- a person traveling at a speed of Mach 100 (a speed possi- lapse that might occur during positive G. First, if the aviator ble in interplanetary space travel) would require a distance tightens his or her abdominal muscles to an extreme degree of about 10,000 miles for safe deceleration. The principal and leans forward to compress the abdomen, some of the reason for this difference is that the total amount of energy pooling of blood in the large vessels of the abdomen can that must be dispelled during deceleration is proportional be prevented, delaying the onset of blackout. Also, special 558 erusserp lairetrA )gH mm( )G( noitareleccA Chapter 44 Aviation, High Altitude, and Space Physiology to the square of the velocity, which alone increases the re- Weightlessness (Microgravity) in Space quired distance for decelerations between Mach 1 versus A person in an orbiting satellite or a nonpropelled Mach 100 by about 10,000- fold. Therefore, deceleration spacecraft experiences weightlessness, or a state of near- must be accomplished much more slowly from a high ve-
