Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


satellite or a nonpropelled Mach 100 by about 10,000- fold. Therefore, deceleration spacecraft experiences weightlessness, or a state of near- must be accomplished much more slowly from a high ve- zero G force, sometimes called microgravity. That is, locity than from a lower velocity. the person is not drawn toward the bottom, sides, or Deceleratory Forces Associated With Parachute Jumps. top of the spacecraft but simply floats inside its cham- When the parachuting aviator leaves the airplane, the ve- bers. The cause of this weightlessness is not failure of locity of fall is at first exactly 0 feet/sec. However, because gravity to pull on the body because gravity from any of the acceleratory force of gravity, within 1 second the ve- nearby heavenly body is still active. However, the grav- locity of fall is 32 feet/sec (if there is no air resistance), in ity acts on the spacecraft and the person at the same 2 seconds it is 64 feet/sec, and so on. As the velocity of fall time so that both are pulled with exactly the same ac- increases, the air resistance tending to slow the fall also in- celeratory forces and in the same direction. For this creases. Finally, the deceleratory force of the air resistance reason, the person simply is not attracted toward any exactly balances the acceleratory force of gravity, so after specific wall of the spacecraft. falling for about 12 seconds, the person will be falling at a Physiological Challenges of Weightlessness (Micro- terminal velocity of 109 to 119 miles/ hour (175 feet/sec). gravity). The physiological challenges of weightlessness If the parachutist has already reached terminal velocity be- have not proved to be of much significance as long as the fore opening the parachute, an “opening shock load” of up period of weightlessness is not too long. Most of the prob- to 1200 pounds could occur on the parachute shrouds. lems that do occur are related to three effects of the weight- The usual- sized parachute slows the fall of the parachut- lessness: (1) motion sickness during the first few days of ist to about one ninth the terminal velocity. In other words, travel; (2) translocation of fluids within the body because the speed of landing is about 20 feet/sec, and the force of of failure of gravity to cause normal hydrostatic pressures; impact against the earth is 1/81, the impact force without a and
