Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


landing is about 20 feet/sec, and the force of of failure of gravity to cause normal hydrostatic pressures; impact against the earth is 1/81, the impact force without a and (3) diminished physical activity because no strength parachute. Even so, the force of impact is still great enough of muscle contraction is required to oppose the force of to cause considerable damage to the body unless the par- gravity. achutist is properly trained in landing. Actually, the force Almost 50% of astronauts experience motion sickness, of impact with the earth is about the same as that which with nausea and sometimes vomiting, during the first 2 to would be experienced by jumping without a parachute from 5 days of space travel. This motion sickness probably results a height of about 6 feet. Unless forewarned, the parachutist from an unfamiliar pattern of motion signals arriving in the will be tricked by her or his senses into striking the earth equilibrium centers of the brain and, at the same time, lack with extended legs, and this position, on landing, will result of gravitational signals. in tremendous deceleratory forces along the skeletal axis of The observed effects of a prolonged stay in space the body, resulting in fracture of his pelvis, vertebrae, or leg. are the following: (1) decrease in blood volume; (2) de- Consequently, the trained parachutist strikes the earth with crease in red blood cell mass; (3) decrease in muscle knees bent but muscles taut to cushion the shock of landing. strength and work capacity; (4) decrease in maximum cardiac output; and (5) loss of calcium and phosphate “Artificial Climate” in the Sealed Spacecraft from the bones, as well as loss of bone mass. Most of these same effects also occur in people who lie in bed Because there is no atmosphere in outer space, an artificial for an extended period. For this reason, exercise pro- atmosphere and climate must be produced in a spacecraft. grams are carried out by astronauts during prolonged Most importantly, the O concentration must remain high 2 space missions. enough and the CO concentration low enough to prevent 2 In previous space laboratory expeditions, in which the suffocation. In some earlier space missions, a capsule at- exercise program was less vigorous, the astronauts had se- mosphere containing pure O at about 260 mm Hg pressure 2 verely decreased work capacities for the first few days after
