Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


exercise program was less vigorous, the astronauts had se- mosphere containing pure O at about 260 mm Hg pressure 2 verely decreased work capacities for the first few days after was used but, in modern space travel, gases about equal to returning to Earth. They also tended to faint (and still do, to those in normal air are used, with four times as much nitro- some extent) when they stood up during the first day or so gen as O and a total pressure of 760 mm Hg. The presence 2 after return to gravity because of diminished blood volume of nitrogen in the mixture greatly diminishes the likelihood and diminished responses of the arterial pressure control of fire and explosion. It also protects against development mechanisms. of local patches of lung atelectasis that often occur when Cardiovascular, Muscle, and Bone “Deconditioning” breathing pure O because O is absorbed rapidly when 2 2 During Prolonged Exposure to Weightlessness. Dur- small bronchi are temporarily blocked by mucous plugs. ing very long space flights and prolonged exposure to For space travel lasting more than several months, it is microgravity, gradual “deconditioning” effects occur on impractical to carry along an adequate O supply. For this 2 the cardiovascular system, skeletal muscles, and bone, reason, recycling techniques have been proposed to use the despite rigorous exercise during the flight. Studies of same O over and over again. Some recycling processes de- 2 astronauts on space flights lasting several months have pend on purely physical procedures, such as electrolysis of shown that they may lose as much 1.0% of their bone water to release O . Others depend on biological methods, 2 mass each month, even though they continue to exer- such as use of algae with their large store of chlorophyll to cise. Substantial atrophy of cardiac and skeletal muscles release O from CO by the process of photosynthesis. A 2 2 also occurs during prolonged exposure to a microgravity completely satisfactory system for recycling has yet to be achieved. environment. 559 UNIT VIII UNIT VIII Aviation, Space, and Deep-Sea Diving Physiology One of the most serious effects is cardiovascular “de- Dunham- Snary KJ, Wu D, Sykes EA, et al: Hypoxic pulmonary va- soconstriction: from molecular mechanisms to medicine. Chest conditioning,” which includes decreased work capacity, re- 151:181, 2017. duced blood volume, impaired baroreceptor reflexes, and Hackett PH, Roach RC: High-a ltitude illness. N
