Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the gen narcosis if he or she remains at these depths too long. water and the second atmosphere caused by the weight of Nitrogen narcosis has characteristics similar to those of the water. At 66 feet, the pressure is 3 atm, and so forth, in alcohol intoxication, and for this reason it has frequently accord with the table in Figure 45- 1. been called “raptures of the depths.” The mechanism of this Effect of Sea Depth on the Volume of Gases—Boyle’s narcotic effect is believed to be the same as that of most other Law. Another important effect of depth is the compres- gas anesthetics. That is, it dissolves in the fatty substances in neuronal membranes and, because of its physical effect sion of gases to smaller and smaller volumes. The illustra- on altering ionic conductance through the membranes, it tion in Figure 45- 1 shows a bell jar at sea level containing reduces neuronal excitability. Ascent to a shallower depth 1 liter of air. At 33 feet beneath the sea, where the pressure reverses the narcosis within a few minutes, with no known is 2 atm, the volume has been compressed to only a half- long- term effects if the ascent is not too rapid. liter, and at 8 atm (233 feet) it has been compressed to one- eighth liter. Thus, the volume to which a given quantity of gas is compressed is inversely proportional to the pressure. OXYGEN TOXICITY AT HIGH PRESSURES This principle of physics is called Boyle’s law, and it is ex- Effect of Very High Po on Blood Oxygen Transport. 2 tremely important in diving physiology because increased When the Po in the blood rises above 100 mm Hg, the pressure can collapse the air chambers of the diver’s body, 2 amount of O dissolved in the water of the blood increases especially the lungs, and may cause serious damage. 2 markedly. This effect is shown in Figure 45- 2, which de- Often in this chapter it is necessary to refer to actual vol- picts the same O - hemoglobin dissociation curve as that ume versus sea level volume. For example, we might speak 2 shown in Chapter 41 but with the alveolar Po extended of an actual volume of 1 liter at a depth of 300 feet; this is 2 to more than 3000 mm Hg. Also depicted by the lowest the same quantity
