Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


2 extremely high pressure instead of at the normal value of 40 mm Hg. Thus, once the alveolar Po rises above a criti- 2 cal level, the hemoglobin-O buffer mechanism (discussed 2 1/4 liter 100 ft in Chapter 41) is no longer capable of keeping the tissue Po in the normal safe range, between 20 and 60 mm Hg. 2 Acute Oxygen Poisoning. The extremely high tissue Po 2 that occurs when O is breathed at a very high alveolar O 2 2 pressure can be detrimental to many of the body’s tissues. For example, breathing O at 4 atm pressure of O (Po = 2 2 2 3040 mm Hg) will cause brain seizures followed by coma in most people within 30 to 60 minutes. The seizures of- ten occur without warning and, for obvious reasons, are 233 ft likely to be lethal to divers submerged beneath the sea. 1/8 liter Other symptoms encountered in acute O poison- 2 ing include nausea, muscle twitchings, dizziness, distur- bances of vision, irritability, and disorientation. Exercise Figure 45- 1. Effect of sea depth on pressure (top) and on gas vol- greatly increases the diver’s susceptibility to O toxicity, 2 ume (bottom). causing symptoms to appear much earlier and with far greater severity than in the resting person. Excessive Intracellular Oxidation as a Cause of Nerv- 30 ous System Oxygen Toxicity—Oxidizing Free Radi- cals. Molecular O has little capability of oxidizing other A 2 chemical compounds. Instead, it must first be converted 25 into an active form of oxygen. There are several forms of B active oxygen, called oxygen free radicals. One of the most important of these is the superoxide free radical O −, and 20 2 Oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve another is the peroxide radical in the form of hydrogen peroxide. Even when the tissue Po is normal at the level 2 Total O in blood of 40 mm Hg, small amounts of free radicals are continu- 15 2 Combined with Oxygen ally being formed from the dissolved O . Fortunately, the 2 hemoglobin poisoning tissues also contain several enzymes that rapidly remove Dissolved in these free radicals, including peroxidases, catalases, and 10 water of blood Normal alveolar superoxide dismutases. Therefore, as long as the hemo- oxygen pressure globin- O buffering mechanism maintains a normal tis- 2 5 sue Po 2, the oxidizing free radicals are removed rapidly enough that they have
