Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


long as the hemo- oxygen pressure globin- O buffering mechanism maintains a normal tis- 2 5 sue Po 2, the oxidizing free radicals are removed rapidly enough that they have little or no effect in the tissues. Above a critical alveolar Po (i.e., > ≈2 atm Po ), the 2 2 0 hemoglobin- O 2 buffering mechanism fails, and the tissue 0 760 1560 2280 3040 Po can then rise to hundreds or thousands of mm Hg. At 2 Oxygen partial pressure in lungs (mm Hg) these high levels, the amounts of oxidizing free radicals Figure 45- 2. Quantity of O dissolved in the fluid of the blood and in literally swamp the enzyme systems designed to remove 2 combination with hemoglobin at very high Po2 values. them, and now they can have serious destructive and even 562 )% semulov( doolb ni negyxO Chapter 45 Physiology of Deep-Sea Diving and Other Hyperbaric Conditions lethal effects on the cells. One of the principal effects is same high pressure as that in the alveolar breathing mixture, to oxidize the polyunsaturated fatty acids that are essen- and over several more hours, enough nitrogen is carried to tial components of many of the cell membranes. Another all the tissues of the body to raise their tissue nitrogen partial effect is to oxidize some of the cellular enzymes, thus dam- pressure to equal the nitrogen pressure in the breathing air. aging the cellular metabolic systems severely. The nervous Because nitrogen is not metabolized by the body, it tissues are especially susceptible because of their high remains dissolved in all the body tissues until the nitro- lipid content. Therefore, most of the acute lethal effects of gen pressure in the lungs is decreased back to some lower acute O toxicity are caused by brain dysfunction. level, at which time the nitrogen can be removed by the 2 reverse respiratory process. However, this removal often Chronic Oxygen Poisoning Causes Pulmonary Disa- takes hours to occur and is the source of multiple prob- bility. A person can be exposed to only 1 atm pressure of lems, collectively called decompression sickness. O almost indefinitely without developing the acute oxy- 2 gen toxicity of the nervous system just described. How- Volume of Nitrogen Dissolved in the Body Fluids at ever, after only about 12 hours of 1 atm O exposure, lung Different Depths. At sea level, almost exactly 1 liter
