Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Volume of Nitrogen Dissolved in the Body Fluids at ever, after only about 12 hours of 1 atm O exposure, lung Different Depths. At sea level, almost exactly 1 liter of 2 passageway congestion, pulmonary edema, and atelectasis nitrogen is dissolved in the entire body. Slightly less than caused by damage to the linings of the bronchi and al- one-half of this nitrogen is dissolved in the water of the veoli begin to develop. The reason for this effect in the body, and a little more than one-half is dissolved in the fat lungs but not in other tissues is that the air spaces of the of the body, because nitrogen is five times as soluble in fat lungs are directly exposed to the high O pressure, but O as in water. 2 2 is delivered to the other body tissues at almost normal Po After the diver has become saturated with nitrogen, 2 because of the hemoglobin- O buffer system. the sea level volume of nitrogen dissolved in the body at 2 different depths is as follows: CARBON DIOXIDE TOXICITY AT GREAT DEPTHS IN THE SEA Feet Liters 0 1 If the diving gear is properly designed and functions 33 2 properly, the diver has no problem due to toxicity 100 4 because depth alone does not increase the CO partial 2 pressure in the alveoli. This is true because depth does 200 7 not increase the rate of CO 2 production in the body, and 300 10 as long as the diver continues to breathe a normal tidal volume and expires the CO 2 as it is formed, alveolar CO 2 Several hours are required for the gas pressures of pressure will be maintained at a normal value. nitrogen in all the body tissues to come nearly to equilib- In certain types of diving gear, however, such as the rium with the gas pressure of nitrogen in the alveoli. The diving helmet and some types of rebreathing appara- reason for this requirement is that the blood does not flow tuses, CO 2 can build up in the dead space air of the appa- rapidly enough, and the nitrogen does not diffuse rapidly ratus and be rebreathed by the diver. Up to an alveolar enough, to cause instantaneous equilibrium. The nitrogen CO 2 pressure (Pco 2) of about 80 mm Hg, twice that in dissolved in the water of
