Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


diver. Up to an alveolar enough, to cause instantaneous equilibrium. The nitrogen CO 2 pressure (Pco 2) of about 80 mm Hg, twice that in dissolved in the water of the body comes to almost com- normal alveoli, the diver usually tolerates this buildup by plete equilibrium in less than 1 hour, but the fat tissue, increasing the minute respiratory volume a maximum which requires five times as much transport of nitrogen of 8- to 11- fold to compensate for the increased CO 2. and has a relatively poor blood supply, reaches equilib- Beyond 80 mm Hg alveolar Pco 2, however, the situation rium only after several hours. Thus, if a person remains becomes intolerable, and eventually the respiratory cen- under water at a deep level for only a few minutes, not ter begins to be depressed, rather than excited, because much nitrogen dissolves in the body fluids and tissues, of the negative tissue metabolic effects of high Pco 2. The whereas if the person remains at a deep level for several diver’s respiration then begins to fail rather than com- hours, both the body water and body fat become satu- pensate. In addition, the diver experiences severe respi- rated with nitrogen. ratory acidosis and varying degrees of lethargy, narcosis, and finally even anesthesia, as discussed in Chapter 43. Decompression Sickness (Also Known as Bends, Com- pressed Air Sickness, Caisson Disease, Diver’s Paraly- sis, Dysbarism). If a diver has been beneath the sea long DECOMPRESSION OF THE DIVER AFTER enough that large amounts of nitrogen have dissolved in EXCESS EXPOSURE TO HIGH PRESSURE the body, and the diver then suddenly comes back to the When a person breathes air under high pressure for a long surface of the sea, significant quantities of nitrogen bub- time, the amount of nitrogen dissolved in the body fluids bles can develop in the body fluids, either intracellularly increases. This is because blood flowing through the pul- or extracellularly, and can cause minor or serious damage monary capillaries becomes saturated with nitrogen to the in almost any area of the body, depending on the number 563 UNIT VIII UNIT VIII Aviation, Space, and Deep-Sea Diving Physiology Pressure Outside Body vessels are affected. Tissue ischemia and sometimes tissue Before After sudden death result. decompression decompression In most people with decompression sickness, the O 2 = 1044 mm Hg O 2 = 159 mm Hg symptoms are
