Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


an idea of the decompression process, a diver who has and sizes of bubbles formed. This phenomenon is called been breathing air and has been on the sea bottom for 60 decompression sickness. minutes at a depth of 190 feet undergoes decompression The principles underlying bubble formation are shown according to the following schedule: in Figure 45- 3. In Figure 45- 3A, the diver’s tissues have • 10 minutes at 50- feet depth become equilibrated to a high dissolved nitrogen pressure • 17 minutes at 40- feet depth (PN = 3918 mm Hg), about 6.5 times the normal amount • 19 minutes at 30- feet depth 2 of nitrogen in the tissues. As long as the diver remains deep • 50 minutes at 20- feet depth beneath the sea, the pressure against the outside of the • 84 minutes at 10- feet depth body (5000 mm Hg) compresses all the body tissues suffi- Thus, for a work period on the sea bottom of only 1 ciently to keep the excess nitrogen gas dissolved. However, hour, the total time for decompression is about 3 hours. when the diver suddenly rises to sea level (Figure 45- 3B), Tank Decompression and Treatment of Decompres- the pressure on the outside of the body becomes only 1 sion Sickness. Another procedure widely used for de- atm (760 mm Hg), while the gas pressure inside the body compression of professional divers is to put the diver into fluids is the sum of the pressures of water vapor, CO , O , 2 2 a pressurized tank and then gradually lower the pressure and nitrogen, or a total of 4065 mm Hg, 97% of which is back to normal atmospheric pressure, using essentially caused by the nitrogen. Obviously, this total value of 4065 the same time schedule as noted earlier. mm Hg is far greater than the 760-m m Hg pressure on the Tank decompression is even more important for treating outside of the body. Therefore, the gases can escape from people in whom symptoms of decompression sickness develop the dissolved state and form bubbles, composed almost minutes or even hours after they have returned to the surface. entirely of nitrogen, both in the tissues and in the blood, In this case, the diver undergoes recompression immediately where they plug many small blood vessels. The bubbles to a deep level, and then decompression is carried out over
