Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the blood, In this case, the diver undergoes recompression immediately where they plug many small blood vessels. The bubbles to a deep level, and then decompression is carried out over a may not appear for many minutes to hours because some- period several times as long as the usual decompression period. times the gases can remain dissolved in the “supersatu- rated” state for hours before bubbling. “Saturation Diving” and Use of Helium-O xygen Mix- Symptoms of Decompression Sickness (“Bends”). The tures in Deep Dives. When divers must work at very deep symptoms of decompression sickness are caused by gas levels—between 250 feet and nearly 1000 feet—they fre- quently live in a large compression tank for days or weeks bubbles blocking many blood vessels in different tissues. at a time, remaining compressed at a pressure level near At first, only the smallest vessels are blocked by minute that at which they will be working. This procedure keeps bubbles, but as the bubbles coalesce, progressively larger 564 Chapter 45 Physiology of Deep-Sea Diving and Other Hyperbaric Conditions the tissues and fluids of the body saturated with the gases to which they will be exposed while diving. Then, when they return to the same tank after working, there are no significant changes in pressure, so decompression bubbles Mask do not occur. Hose In very deep dives, especially during saturation diving, helium is usually used in the gas mixture instead of nitro- gen for three reasons: (1) it has only about one-fifth the narcotic effect of nitrogen; (2) only about one-half as much Demand valve First-stage volume of helium dissolves in the body tissues as nitrogen, valve and the volume that does dissolve diffuses out of the tissues during decompression several times as rapidly as does ni- trogen, thus reducing the problem of decompression sick- ness; and (3) the low density of helium (one-seventh the density of nitrogen) keeps the airway resistance for breath- ing at a minimum, which is very important because highly compressed nitrogen is so dense that airway resistance can become extreme, sometimes making the work of breathing beyond endurance. Finally, in very deep dives, it is important to reduce the O concentration in the gaseous mixture because other- 2 wise O toxicity would result. For example, at a depth of 2 Air cylinders 700 feet (22 atm pressure), a 1% O mixture will provide all 2 the O required by
