Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


O toxicity would result. For example, at a depth of 2 Air cylinders 700 feet (22 atm pressure), a 1% O mixture will provide all 2 the O required by the diver, whereas a 21% mixture of O 2 2 (the percentage in air) delivers a Po to the lungs of more 2 than 4 atm, a level very likely to cause seizures in as little as 30 minutes. Figure 45- 4. Open- circuit demand type of SCUBA (self-c ontained underwater breathing apparatus). SELF- CONTAINED UNDERWATER BREATHING APPARATUS (SCUBA) the mask. Then, on expiration, the air cannot go back into DIVING the tank but, instead, is expired into the water. The most important problem with SCUBA is the lim- Before the 1940s, almost all diving was done using a diving ited amount of time a diver can remain beneath the water helmet connected to a hose through which air was pumped surface; For example, only a few minutes are possible at to the diver from the surface. Then, in 1943, the French a 200- foot depth. The reason for this limitation is that explorer Jacques Cousteau popularized a self- contained tremendous airflow from the tanks is required to wash underwater breathing apparatus, known as SCUBA. The CO out of the lungs—the greater the depth, the greater 2 type of SCUBA used in more than 99% of all sports and the airflow in terms of quantity of air per minute required commercial diving is the open- circuit demand system because the volumes have been compressed to small sizes. shown in Figure 45- 4. This system consists of the follow- ing components: (1) one or more tanks of compressed air Special Physiological Problems in Submarines or some other breathing mixture; (2) a first- stage “reduc- Escape From Submarines. Essentially the same prob- ing” valve for reducing the very high pressure from the lems encountered in deep sea diving are often found in re- tanks to a low pressure level; (3) a combination inhala- lation to submarines, especially when it is necessary to es- tion “demand” valve and exhalation valve that allows air cape from a submerged submarine. Escape is possible from to be pulled into the lungs with slight negative pressure of as deep as 300 feet without use of any apparatus. However, breathing and then to be exhaled into the sea at a pressure proper use of rebreathing devices, especially when
