Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as deep as 300 feet without use of any apparatus. However, breathing and then to be exhaled into the sea at a pressure proper use of rebreathing devices, especially when using level slightly positive to the surrounding water pressure; helium, can theoretically allow escape from as deep as 600 and (4) a mask and tube system with small “dead space.” feet or perhaps more. The demand system operates as follows. The first- stage One of the major problems of escape is prevention of reducing valve reduces the pressure from the tanks so air embolism. As the person ascends, the gases in the lungs that the air delivered to the mask has a pressure only a expand and sometimes rupture a pulmonary blood vessel, few mm Hg greater than the surrounding water pressure. forcing the gases to enter the vessel and cause air embolism of the circulation. Therefore, as the person ascends, he or The breathing mixture does not flow continually into the she must make a special effort to exhale continually. mask. Instead, with each inspiration, slight extra negative Health Problems in the Submarine Internal Environ- pressure in the demand valve of the mask pulls the dia- ment. Except for escape, submarine medicine generally phragm of the valve open, and this action automatically centers on several engineering problems to keep hazards releases air from the tank into the mask and lungs. In this out of the internal environment. First, in atomic subma- way, only the amount of air needed for inhalation enters 565 UNIT VIII UNIT VIII Aviation, Space, and Deep-Sea Diving Physiology rines, there is the problem of radiation hazards, but with 70 mm Hg. Therefore, hyperbaric oxygenation of the tis- appropriate shielding, the amount of radiation received by sues can frequently stop the infectious process entirely and the crew submerged beneath the sea has been less than the thus convert a condition that formerly was almost 100% normal amount of radiation received above the surface of fatal into one that is cured in most cases by early treatment the sea from cosmic rays. with hyperbaric therapy. Second, poisonous gases, on occasion, escape into Other conditions in which hyperbaric O therapy has 2 the atmosphere of the submarine and must be controlled been either valuable or possibly valuable include decom- rapidly. For example, during several weeks’ submergence, pression sickness, arterial gas embolism, carbon monoxide cigarette smoking by the crew
