Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


anaerobic con- Vann RD, Butler FkK, Mitchell SJ, Moon RE: Decompression illness. ditions and stop growing at O pressures greater than about Lancet 377:153, 2011. 2 566 CHAPTER 4 6 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters The nervous system is unique in the vast complexity of of receptors. These sensory experiences can either cause thought processes and control actions that it can perform. immediate reactions from the brain, or memories of the Each minute it receives literally millions of bits of informa- experiences can be stored in the brain for minutes, weeks, tion from the different sensory nerves and sensory organs or years and determine bodily reactions at some future and then integrates all these to determine responses to be date. made by the body. Figure 46-2 shows the somatic portion of the sen- Before beginning this discussion of the nervous sys- sory system, which transmits sensory information from tem, the reader should review Chapters 5 and 7, which the receptors of the entire body surface and from some present the principles of membrane potentials and trans- deep structures. This information enters the central mission of signals in nerves and through neuromuscular nervous system through peripheral nerves and is con- junctions. ducted immediately to multiple sensory areas in (1) the spinal cord at all levels; (2) the reticular substance of GENERAL DESIGN OF THE NERVOUS the medulla, pons, and mesencephalon of the brain; (3) SYSTEM the cerebellum; (4) the thalamus; and (5) areas of the cerebral cortex. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM NEURON: MOTOR PART OF THE NERVOUS THE BASIC FUNCTIONAL UNIT SYSTEM—EFFECTORS The central nervous system is estimated to contain 80 to The most important eventual role of the nervous sys- 100 billion neurons. Figure 46- 1 shows a typical neuron of tem is to control the various bodily activities. This task a type found in the brain motor cortex. Incoming signals is achieved by controlling (1) contraction of appropriate enter this neuron through synapses located mostly on the skeletal muscles throughout the body; (2) contraction of neuronal dendrites, but also on the cell body. For different smooth muscle in the internal organs; and (3) secretion types of neurons, there may be only a few hundred or as of active chemical substances by both exocrine and endo- many as 200,000 such synaptic connections from input crine glands in many parts of the body. These activities are
