Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


or as of active chemical substances by both exocrine and endo- many as 200,000 such synaptic connections from input crine glands in many parts of the body. These activities are fibers. In contrast, the output signal travels via a single collectively called motor functions of the nervous system, axon leaving the neuron. Then, this axon may have many and the muscles and glands are called effectors because separate branches to other parts of the nervous system or they are the actual anatomical structures that perform the peripheral body. functions dictated by the nerve signals. A special feature of most synapses is that the signal Figure 46- 3 shows the “skeletal” motor nerve axis of normally passes only in the forward direction, from the the nervous system for controlling skeletal muscle con- axon of a preceding neuron to dendrites on cell mem- traction. Operating parallel to this axis is another sys- branes of subsequent neurons. This feature forces the tem, called the autonomic nervous system, for controlling signal to travel in required directions to perform specific smooth muscles, glands, and other internal bodily sys- nervous functions. tems; this system is discussed in Chapter 61. SENSORY PART OF THE NERVOUS Note in Figure 46- 3 that the skeletal muscles can be SYSTEM—SENSORY RECEPTORS controlled from many levels of the central nervous sys- tem, including (1) the spinal cord; (2) the reticular sub- Most activities of the nervous system are initiated by sen- stance of the medulla, pons, and mesencephalon; (3) sory experiences that excite sensory receptors, whether the basal ganglia; (4) the cerebellum; and (5) the motor visual receptors in the eyes, auditory receptors in the ears, cortex. Each of these areas has its own specific role. The tactile receptors on the surface of the body, or other types lower regions are concerned primarily with automatic, 569 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Somesthetic areas Motor cortex Dendrites Thalamus Brain Bulboreticular formation Cell body Pons Cerebellum Medulla Skin Pain, cold, Spinal cord warmth (free nerve ending) Pressure (Pacinian corpuscle) (expanded tip receptor) Touch (Meissner's corpuscle) Muscle spindle Axon Golgi tendon apparatus Muscle Kinesthetic receptor Synapses Joint Spinal cord Second-order Figure 46- 2. Somatosensory axis of the nervous system. neurons is called the integrative function of the nervous system. Figure 46- 1. Structure of a large neuron in the brain showing its Thus, if a person
