Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the nervous system. neurons is called the integrative function of the nervous system. Figure 46- 1. Structure of a large neuron in the brain showing its Thus, if a person places a hand on a hot stove, the desired important functional parts. instantaneous response is to lift the hand. Other associ- ated responses follow, such as moving the entire body instantaneous muscle responses to sensory stimuli, and away from the stove and perhaps even shouting with pain. the higher regions are concerned with deliberate complex ROLE OF SYNAPSES IN PROCESSING muscle movements controlled by thought processes of INFORMATION the brain. PROCESSING OF INFORMATION— The synapse is the junction point from one neuron to the INTEGRATIVE FUNCTION OF THE next. Later in this chapter, we discuss the details of syn- NERVOUS SYSTEM aptic function. However, it is important to note here that synapses determine the directions that the nervous sig- One of the most important functions of the nervous sys- nals will spread through the nervous system. Some syn- tem is to process incoming information in such a way that apses transmit signals from one neuron to the next with appropriate mental and motor responses will occur. More ease, whereas others transmit signals only with difficulty. than 99% of all sensory information is discarded by the Also, facilitatory and inhibitory signals from other areas brain as irrelevant and unimportant. For example, one is in the nervous system can control synaptic transmission, ordinarily unaware of the parts of the body that are in con- sometimes opening the synapses for transmission and, at tact with clothing, as well as the seat pressure when sitting. other times, closing them. In addition, some postsynaptic Likewise, attention is drawn only to an occasional object neurons respond with large numbers of output impulses, in one’s field of vision, and even the perpetual noise of our and others respond with only a few. Thus, the synapses surroundings is usually relegated to the subconscious. perform a selective action, often blocking weak signals However, when important sensory information excites while allowing strong signals to pass but, at other times, the mind, it is immediately channeled into proper inte- selecting and amplifying certain weak signals and often grative and motor regions of the brain to cause desired channeling these signals in many directions rather than in responses. This channeling and processing of information only one direction. 570 Chapter 46 Organization of
