Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the brain to cause desired channeling these signals in many directions rather than in responses. This channeling and processing of information only one direction. 570 Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters Motor nerve Motor Once memories have been stored in the nervous sys- to muscles area tem, they become part of the brain processing mechanism for future “thinking.” That is, the thinking processes of the brain compare new sensory experiences with stored Caudate nucleus memories; the memories then help select the important new sensory information and channel this into appropri- ate memory storage areas for future use or into motor areas to cause immediate bodily responses. MAJOR LEVELS OF CENTRAL NERVOUS Thalamus SYSTEM FUNCTION Putamen Globus pallidus The human nervous system has inherited special func- Subthalamic nucleus tional capabilities from each stage of human evolution- Bulboreticular formation ary development. From this heritage, three major levels Cerebellum of the central nervous system have specific functional characteristics: (1) the spinal cord level; (2) the lower brain or subcortical level; and (3) the higher brain or cor- tical level. SPINAL CORD LEVEL Gamma motor fiber Alpha motor fiber We often think of the spinal cord as being only a conduit for signals from the periphery of the body to the brain or in the opposite direction from the brain back to the body. This supposition is far from the truth. Even after the spi- Muscle spindle Stretch receptor fiber nal cord has been cut in the high neck region, many highly organized spinal cord functions still occur. For example, Figure 46- 3. Skeletal motor nerve axis of the nervous system. neuronal circuits in the cord can cause (1) walking move- STORAGE OF INFORMATION—MEMORY ments; (2) reflexes that withdraw portions of the body away from painful objects; (3) reflexes that stiffen the legs Only a small fraction of even the most important sensory to support the body against gravity; and (4) reflexes that information usually causes immediate motor response. control local blood vessels, gastrointestinal movements, However, much of the information is stored for future or urinary excretion. In fact, the upper levels of the ner- control of motor activities and for use in the thinking vous system often operate not by sending signals directly processes. Most storage occurs in the cerebral cortex, but to the periphery of the body, but by sending signals to even the
