Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


system often operate not by sending signals directly processes. Most storage occurs in the cerebral cortex, but to the periphery of the body, but by sending signals to even the basal regions of the brain and the spinal cord can the control centers of the cord, simply “commanding” the store small amounts of information. cord centers to perform their functions. The storage of information is the process we call mem- ory, which is also a function of the synapses. Each time LOWER BRAIN OR SUBCORTICAL LEVEL certain types of sensory signals pass through sequences of synapses, these synapses become more capable of trans- Many, if not most, of what we call subconscious activi- mitting the same type of signal the next time, a process ties of the body are controlled in the lower areas of the called facilitation. After the sensory signals have passed brain—that is, in the medulla, pons, mesencephalon, through the synapses a large number of times, the syn- hypothalamus, thalamus, cerebellum, and basal ganglia. apses become so facilitated that signals generated within For example, subconscious control of arterial pressure the brain itself can also cause transmission of impulses and respiration is achieved mainly in the medulla and through the same sequences of synapses, even when pons. Control of equilibrium is a combined function of the sensory input is not excited. This process gives the the older portions of the cerebellum and the reticular sub- person a perception of experiencing the original sensa- stance of the medulla, pons, and mesencephalon. Feeding tions, although the perceptions are only memories of the reflexes, such as salivation and licking the lips in response sensations. to the taste of food, are controlled by areas in the medulla, The precise mechanisms whereby long- term facilita- pons, mesencephalon, amygdala, and hypothalamus. In tion of synapses occurs in the memory process are still addition, many emotional patterns, such as anger, excite- uncertain, but what is known about this and other details ment, sexual response, reaction to pain, and reaction to of the sensory memory process are discussed in Chapter pleasure, can still occur after destruction of much of the 58. cerebral cortex. 571 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Problem HIGHER BRAIN OR CORTICAL LEVEL After the preceding account of the many nervous system Input Output Answer functions that occur at the cord and lower brain levels, one
