Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Physiology Problem HIGHER BRAIN OR CORTICAL LEVEL After the preceding account of the many nervous system Input Output Answer functions that occur at the cord and lower brain levels, one may ask, “what is left for the cerebral cortex to do?” The answer to this question is complex, but it begins with Procedure Initial Result of the fact that the cerebral cortex is an extremely large for solution data operations Information memory storehouse. The cortex never functions alone storage but always in association with lower centers of the ner- vous system. Central Computational Without the cerebral cortex, the functions of the lower processing unit unit brain centers are often imprecise. The vast storehouse of cortical information usually converts these functions to Figure 46-4 . Block diagram of a general-purpose computer showing the basic components and their interrelations. determinative and precise operations. Finally, the cerebral cortex is essential for most of our thought processes, but it cannot function by itself. In fact, CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM SYNAPSES it is the lower brain centers, not the cortex, that initiate wakefulness in the cerebral cortex, thereby opening its Information is transmitted in the central nervous sys- bank of memories to the thinking machinery of the brain. tem mainly in the form of nerve action potentials, Thus, each portion of the nervous system performs spe- called nerve impulses, through a succession of neu- cific functions, but it is the cortex that opens a world of rons, one after another. However, each impulse (1) stored information for use by the mind. may be blocked in its transmission from one neuron to the next; (2) may be changed from a single impulse COMPARISON OF THE NERVOUS into repetitive impulses; or (3) may be integrated with SYSTEM TO A COMPUTER impulses from other neurons to cause highly intricate patterns of impulses in successive neurons. All these It is readily apparent that computers have many features functions can be classified as synaptic functions of in common with the nervous system. First, all computers neurons. have input circuits that can be compared with the sensory portion of the nervous system, as well as output circuits TYPES OF SYNAPSES—CHEMICAL AND that are analogous to the motor portion of the nervous ELECTRICAL system. In simple computers, the output signals are con- There are two major types of synapses (Figure 46- 5)—(1) trolled directly by the input signals, operating in a man- chemical
