Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


system. In simple computers, the output signals are con- There are two major types of synapses (Figure 46- 5)—(1) trolled directly by the input signals, operating in a man- chemical and (2) electrical. ner similar to that of simple reflexes of the spinal cord. In Most of the synapses used for signal transmission in more complex computers, the output is determined by the central nervous system of the human being are chemi- input signals and by information that has already been cal synapses. In these synapses, the first neuron secretes stored in memory in the computer, which is analogous at its nerve ending synapse a chemical substance called to the more complex reflex and processing mechanisms a neurotransmitter (often called a transmitter substance), of the human higher nervous system. Furthermore, as and this transmitter in turn acts on receptor proteins in computers become even more complex, it is necessary the membrane of the next neuron to excite the neuron, to add still another unit, called the central processing inhibit it, or modify its sensitivity in some other way unit, which determines the sequence of all operations. (Video 46- 1). More than 50 important neurotransmitters This unit is analogous to the control mechanisms in the have been discovered thus far. Some of the best known are brain that direct a person’s attention first to one thought acetylcholine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, histamine, or sensation or motor activity, then to another, and so gamma- aminobutyric acid (GABA), glycine, serotonin, forth, until complex sequences of thought or action take and glutamate. place. In electrical synapses, the cytoplasms of adjacent cells Figure 46- 4 is a simple block diagram of a computer. are directly connected by clusters of ion channels called Even a rapid study of this diagram demonstrates its simi- gap junctions that allow free movement of ions from the larity to the nervous system. The fact that the basic com- interior of one cell to the interior of the next cell. Such ponents of the general purpose computer are analogous junctions were discussed in Chapter 4, and it is by way to those of the human nervous system demonstrates that of gap junctions and other similar junctions that action the brain has many features of a computer, continuously potentials are transmitted from one smooth muscle fiber collecting sensory information and using this, along with to the next in visceral smooth muscle (Chapter 8) and
