Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of a computer, continuously potentials are transmitted from one smooth muscle fiber collecting sensory information and using this, along with to the next in visceral smooth muscle (Chapter 8) and stored information, to compute the daily course of bodily from one cardiac muscle cell to the next in cardiac muscle activity. (Chapter 9). 572 Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters A Chemical synapse istic that makes them highly desirable for transmitting nervous system signals. This characteristic is that they Action potential Mitochondria always transmit the signals in one direction—that is, from the neuron that secretes the neurotransmitter, called the presynaptic neuron, to the neuron on which the transmit- Ca2+ ter acts, called the postsynaptic neuron. This phenomenon Synaptic is the principle of one- way conduction at chemical synaps- Presynaptic vesicle es, and it is different from conduction through electrical terminal synapses, which often transmit signals in either direction. A one- way conduction mechanism allows signals to Neurotransmitter be directed toward specific goals. Indeed, it is this spe- cific transmission of signals to discrete and highly focused Synaptic cleft (200-300 Å) areas both within the nervous system and at the terminals of the peripheral nerves that allows the nervous system to Ionotropic Metabotropic perform its myriad functions of sensation, motor control, receptor receptor Ions Second memory, and many other functions. Postsynaptic messenger terminal PHYSIOLOGIC ANATOMY OF THE Cellular response: SYNAPSE • Membrane potential • Biochemical cascades • Regulation of gene expression Figure 46- 6 shows a typical anterior motor neuron in the anterior horn of the spinal cord. It is composed of three major parts—the soma, which is the main body of the B Electrical synapse neuron, a single axon, which extends from the soma into Action a peripheral nerve that leaves the spinal cord, and den- potential drites, which are great numbers of branching projections of the soma that extend as much as 1 millimeter into the surrounding areas of the cord. Presynaptic As many as 10,000 to 200,000 minute synaptic knobs terminal called presynaptic terminals lie on the surfaces of the den- Gap junction channels drites and soma of the motor neuron, with about 80% to 95% of them on the dendrites and only 5% to 20% on the Intercellular soma. These presynaptic terminals are the ends of nerve gap (20-40 Å) fibrils that originate from many other neurons. Many of these
