Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


and only 5% to 20% on the Intercellular soma. These presynaptic terminals are the ends of nerve gap (20-40 Å) fibrils that originate from many other neurons. Many of these presynaptic terminals are excitatory—that is, they secrete a neurotransmitter that excites the postsynaptic neuron. However, other presynaptic terminals are inhibi- Postsynaptic tory—that is, they secrete a neurotransmitter that inhibits terminal the postsynaptic neuron. Neurons in other parts of the cord and brain differ from the anterior motor neuron in (1) the size of the cell Figure 46- 5. Physiologic anatomy of (A) chemical synapse and (B) body; (2) the length, size, and number of dendrites, rang- electrical synapse. ing in length from almost zero to many centimeters; (3) the length and size of the axon; and (4) the number of Although most synapses in the brain are chemical, presynaptic terminals, which may range from only a few electrical and chemical synapses may coexist and interact to as many as 200,000. These differences make neurons in the central nervous system. The bidirectional transmis- in various parts of the nervous system react differently to sion of electrical synapses permits them to help coordinate incoming synaptic signals and, therefore, perform many the activities of large groups of interconnected neurons. different functions. For example, electrical synapses are useful in detecting Presynaptic Terminals. Electron microscopic studies of the coincidence of simultaneous subthreshold depolar- the presynaptic terminals show that they have varied ana- izations within a group of interconnected neurons; this tomical forms, but most of them resemble small round or enables increased neuronal sensitivity and promotes syn- oval knobs and therefore are sometimes called terminal chronous firing of a group of interconnected neurons. knobs, boutons, end- feet, or synaptic knobs. “One- Way” Conduction at Chemical Synapses. Chem- Figure 46- 5A illustrates the basic structure of a chemi- ical synapses have one exceedingly important character- cal synapse, showing a single presynaptic terminal on the 573 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology depolarizes the presynaptic membrane, these calcium channels open and allow large numbers of calcium ions to flow into the terminal (Figure 46- 5A). The quantity of neurotransmitter that is then released from the terminal into the synaptic cleft is directly related to the number of calcium ions that enter (Video 46- 2). The precise mecha- nism whereby the calcium ions cause this release is not known, but it
