Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is directly related to the number of calcium ions that enter (Video 46- 2). The precise mecha- nism whereby the calcium ions cause this release is not known, but it is believed to be the following. Dendrites When the calcium ions enter the presynaptic termi- nal, they bind with special protein molecules on the inside surface of the presynaptic membrane, called release sites. This binding in turn causes the release sites to open Axon through the membrane, allowing a few transmitter ves- icles to release their transmitter into the cleft after each single action potential. For the vesicles that store the neu- Soma rotransmitter acetylcholine, between 2,000 and 10,000 molecules of acetylcholine are present in each vesicle, and there are enough vesicles in the presynaptic terminal to transmit from a few hundred to more than 10,000 action potentials. Transmitter Actions on Postsynaptic Neurons—Function of Receptor Proteins The membrane of the postsynaptic neuron contains large numbers of receptor proteins, also shown in Figure 46- Figure 46- 6. Typical anterior motor neuron showing presynaptic 5A. The molecules of these receptors have two important terminals on the neuronal soma and dendrites. Note also the single components: (1) a binding component that protrudes out- axon. ward from the membrane into the synaptic cleft, where it binds the neurotransmitter coming from the presynaptic membrane surface of a postsynaptic neuron. The presyn- terminal; and (2) an intracellular component that passes aptic terminal is separated from the postsynaptic neuro- all the way through the postsynaptic membrane to the nal soma by a synaptic cleft usually 200 to 300 angstroms interior of the postsynaptic neuron. (Å) wide. The terminal has two internal structures impor- Receptor activation controls the opening of ion chan- tant to the excitatory or inhibitory function of the syn- nels in the postsynaptic cell in one of two ways: (1) by gat- apse: the transmitter vesicles and the mitochondria. The ing ion channels directly and allowing passage of specified transmitter vesicles contain the neurotransmitter that types of ions through the membrane; or (2) by activating a when released into the synaptic cleft, excites or inhibits “second messenger” that is not an ion channel but, instead, the postsynaptic neuron. It excites the postsynaptic neu- is a molecule that protrudes into the cell cytoplasm and ron if the neuronal membrane contains excitatory recep- activates one or more substances inside the postsynaptic tors, and it inhibits the neuron
