Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


molecule that protrudes into the cell cytoplasm and ron if the neuronal membrane contains excitatory recep- activates one or more substances inside the postsynaptic tors, and it inhibits the neuron if the membrane contains neuron. These second messengers increase or decrease inhibitory receptors. The mitochondria provide adenosine specific cellular functions. triphosphate (ATP), which in turn supplies the energy for Neurotransmitter receptors that directly gate ion synthesizing new transmitter substances. channels are often called ionotropic receptors, whereas When an action potential spreads over a presynaptic those that act through second messenger systems are terminal, depolarization of its membrane causes a small called metabotropic receptors. number of vesicles to empty into the cleft. The released transmitter in turn binds to a receptor on the postsynap- Ion Channels. The ion channels in the postsynaptic tic neuronal membrane, causing an immediate change in neuronal membrane are usually of two types: (1) cation its permeability characteristics and leading to excitation channels, which usually allow sodium ions to pass when or inhibition of the postsynaptic neuron, depending on opened but sometimes also allow potassium and/or cal- the neuronal receptor characteristics. cium ions to pass; and (2) anion channels, which mainly allow chloride ions to pass but also allow minute quanti- Transmitter Release From Presynaptic ties of other anions to pass. As discussed in Chapter 4, Terminals—Role of Calcium Ions these ion channels are highly selective for transport of The membrane of the presynaptic terminal is called the one or more specific ions. This selectivity depends on its presynaptic membrane. It contains large numbers of diameter, shape, and the electrical charges and chemical voltage-g ated calcium channels. When an action potential bonds along its inside surfaces. 574 Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters Transmitter substance Receptor Potassium Membrane protein channel enzyme (cid:31) (cid:30) Opens channel K+ (cid:29) 1 (cid:29) 2 ATP GTP (cid:31) (cid:30) GDP Activates G protein GTP enzymes or (cid:29) 4 3 cAMP cGMP GTP GDP Activates gene Activates one or more transcription intracellular enzymes Proteins and Specific cellular structural changes chemical activators Figure 46- 7. The second messenger system whereby a transmitter substance from an initial neuron can activate a second neuron by first caus- ing a transformational change in the receptor that releases the activated alpha (α) subunit of the G protein into the second neuron’s cytoplasm. Four subsequent possible effects of the G protein are
