Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


transformational change in the receptor that releases the activated alpha (α) subunit of the G protein into the second neuron’s cytoplasm. Four subsequent possible effects of the G protein are shown, including the following: 1, opening an ion channel in the membrane of the second neuron; 2, activating an enzyme system in the neuron’s membrane; 3, activating an intracellular enzyme system; and/or 4, causing gene tran- scription in the second neuron. Return of the G protein to the inactive state occurs when guanosine triphosphate (GTP) bound to the α subunit is hydrolyzed to guanosine diphosphate (GDP), and the β and γ subunits are reattached to the α subunit. The cation channels that conduct sodium ions are “Second Messenger” System in the Postsynaptic lined with negative charges. These charges attract the Neuron. Many functions of the nervous system—for positively charged sodium ions into the channel when the example, the process of memory—require prolonged channel diameter increases to a size larger than that of changes in neurons for seconds to months after the ini- the hydrated sodium ion. However, these same negative tial transmitter substance is gone. The ion channels are charges repel chloride ions and other anions and prevent not suitable for causing prolonged postsynaptic neuronal their passage. changes because these channels close within milliseconds For the anion channels, when the channel diam- after the transmitter substance is no longer present. How- eters become large enough, chloride ions pass into the ever, in many cases, prolonged postsynaptic neuronal ex- channels and on through to the opposite side, whereas citation or inhibition is achieved by activating a second sodium, potassium, and calcium cations are blocked, messenger chemical system inside the postsynaptic neu- mainly because their hydrated ions are too large to ronal cell, and then it is the second messenger that causes pass. the prolonged effect. We will learn later that when cation channels open and There are several types of second messenger systems. allow positively charged sodium ions to enter, the positive One of the most common types uses a group of proteins electrical charges of the sodium ions will in turn excite called G proteins. Figure 46- 7 shows a membrane recep- this neuron. Therefore, a neurotransmitter that opens tor G protein. The inactive G protein complex is free in cation channels is called an excitatory transmitter. Con- the cytosol and consists of guanosine diphosphate (GDP) versely, opening anion channels
