Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


G protein. The inactive G protein complex is free in cation channels is called an excitatory transmitter. Con- the cytosol and consists of guanosine diphosphate (GDP) versely, opening anion channels allows negative electrical plus three components: an alpha (α) component that is charges to enter, which inhibits the neuron. Therefore, the activator portion of the G protein, and beta (β) and neurotransmitters that open these channels are called gamma (γ) components that are attached to the alpha inhibitory transmitters. component. As long as the G protein complex is bound to When a neurotransmitter activates an ion channel, the GDP, it remains inactive. channel usually opens within a fraction of a millisecond; When the receptor is activated by a neurotransmit- when the transmitter substance is no longer present, the ter, following a nerve impulse, the receptor undergoes a channel closes equally rapidly. The opening and closing conformational change, exposing a binding site for the of ion channels provide a means for very rapid control of G protein complex, which then binds to the portion of postsynaptic neurons. the receptor that protrudes into the interior of the cell. 575 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology This process permits the α subunit to release GDP and The different molecular and membrane mechanisms simultaneously bind guanosine triphosphate (GTP) while used by the different receptors to cause excitation or inhi- separating from the β and γ portions of the complex. The bition include the following. separated α- GTP complex is then free to move within the Excitation. cytoplasm of the cell and perform one or more of sev- 1. Opening of sodium channels to allow large numbers eral functions, depending on the specific characteristic of of positive electrical charges to flow to the interior of each type of neuron. The following four changes that can the postsynaptic cell. This action raises the intracel- occur are shown in Figure 46- 7: lular membrane potential in the positive direction 1. Opening specific ion channels through the postsyn- up toward the threshold level for excitation. It is the aptic cell membrane. Shown in the upper right of most widely used means for causing excitation. the figure is a potassium channel that is opened in 2. Depressed conduction through chloride or potassium response to the G protein; this channel often stays channels or both. This action decreases the diffusion open for a
