Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is opened in 2. Depressed conduction through chloride or potassium response to the G protein; this channel often stays channels or both. This action decreases the diffusion open for a prolonged time, in contrast to rapid clo- of negatively charged chloride ions to the inside of sure of directly activated ion channels that do not the postsynaptic neuron or decreases the diffusion use the second messenger system. of positively charged potassium ions to the outside. 2. Activation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate In either case, the effect is to make the internal (cAMP) or cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) membrane potential more positive than normal, in the neuronal cell. Recall that cAMP or cGMP can which is excitatory. activate highly specific metabolic machinery in the 3. Various changes in the internal metabolism of the neuron and, therefore, can initiate any one of many postsynaptic neuron to excite cell activity or, in some chemical results, including long- term changes in cases, to increase the number of excitatory mem- cell structure itself, which in turn alters long- term brane receptors or decrease the number of inhibi- excitability of the neuron. tory membrane receptors. 3. Activation of one or more intracellular enzymes. The G protein can directly activate one or more intracel- Inhibition. lular enzymes. In turn, the enzymes can cause many 1. Opening of chloride ion channels through the post- specific chemical functions in the cell. synaptic neuronal membrane. This action allows 4. Activation of gene transcription. Activation of gene rapid diffusion of negatively charged chloride ions transcription is one of the most important effects of from outside the postsynaptic neuron to the inside, activation of the second messenger systems because thereby carrying negative charges inward and in- gene transcription can cause formation of new pro- creasing the negativity inside, which is inhibitory. teins within the neuron, thereby changing its meta- 2. Increase in conductance of potassium ions out of the bolic machinery or its structure. It is well known that neuron. This action allows positive ions to diffuse to structural changes of appropriately activated neurons the exterior, which causes increased negativity in- do occur, especially in long- term memory processes. side the neuron; this is inhibitory. Inactivation of the G protein occurs when the GTP 3. Activation of receptor enzymes. This inhibits cellular bound to the α subunit is hydrolyzed to GDP. This action metabolic functions and increases the number of causes the
