Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the GTP 3. Activation of receptor enzymes. This inhibits cellular bound to the α subunit is hydrolyzed to GDP. This action metabolic functions and increases the number of causes the α subunit to release from its target protein, inhibitory synaptic receptors or decreases the num- thereby inactivating the second messenger systems, and ber of excitatory receptors. then to combine again with the β and γ subunits, return- ing the G protein complex to its inactive state. CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES THAT FUNCTION It is clear that activation of second messenger sys- AS SYNAPTIC TRANSMITTERS tems within the neuron, whether of the G protein type or of other types, is extremely important for changing the More than 50 chemical substances have been proved or long- term response characteristics of different neuronal postulated to function as synaptic transmitters. Some of pathways. We will return to this subject in more detail them are listed in Tables 46- 1 and 46- 2, which provide in Chapter 58 when we discuss memory functions of the two groups of synaptic transmitters. One group com- nervous system. prises small- molecule, rapidly acting transmitters. The other is made up of a large number of neuropeptides of Excitatory or Inhibitory Receptors in the much larger molecular size, which usually act much more Postsynaptic Membrane slowly. A few gaseous molecules, such as nitric oxide (NO), On activation, some postsynaptic receptors cause excita- hydrogen sulfide (H S), and carbon monoxide (CO), may 2 tion of postsynaptic neurons, and others cause inhibition. also serve as transmitter modulators, although their role The importance of having inhibitory and excitatory types as true neurotransmitters is still unclear. of receptors is that this feature gives an additional dimen- The small-m olecule, rapidly acting transmitters cause sion to nervous function, allowing restraint of nervous most acute responses of the nervous system, such as action and excitation. transmission of sensory signals to the brain and motor 576 Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters Table 46- 1 Small-M olecule, Rapidly Acting Transmitters Table 46- 2 Neuropeptides, Slowly Acting Transmitters, or Growth Factors Class I Acetylcholine Hypothalamic- Releasing Hormones Thyrotropin-r eleasing hormone Class II: The Amines Norepinephrine Luteinizing hormone–releasing hormone Epinephrine Somatostatin (growth hormone inhibitory factor) Dopamine Serotonin Pituitary Peptides Melatonin Adrenocorticotropic hormone Histamine β- Endorphin Class III: Amino Acids α–Melanocyte- stimulating hormone Gamma- aminobutyric acid Glycine Prolactin Glutamate Luteinizing hormone Aspartate Thyrotropin Class IV
