Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


factor) Dopamine Serotonin Pituitary Peptides Melatonin Adrenocorticotropic hormone Histamine β- Endorphin Class III: Amino Acids α–Melanocyte- stimulating hormone Gamma- aminobutyric acid Glycine Prolactin Glutamate Luteinizing hormone Aspartate Thyrotropin Class IV Growth hormone ATP Arachidonic acid Vasopressin Nitric oxide Oxytocin Carbon monoxide Peptides That Act on Gut and Brain Leucine enkephalin Methionine enkephalin signals back to the muscles. The neuropeptides, in con- Substance P trast, usually cause more prolonged actions, such as Gastrin long- term changes in numbers of neuronal receptors, Cholecystokinin long- term opening or closure of certain ion channels, and possibly even long- term changes in numbers of synapses Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or sizes of synapses. Nerve growth factor Small- Molecule, Rapidly Acting Brain- derived neurotropic factor Transmitters Neurotensin Insulin In most cases, the small- molecule types of transmitters Glucagon are synthesized in the cytosol of the presynaptic termi- Peptides from Other Tissues nal and are absorbed via active transport into the many Angiotensin II transmitter vesicles in the terminal. Then, each time an action potential reaches the presynaptic terminal, a Bradykinin few vesicles at a time release their transmitter into the Carnosine synaptic cleft. This action usually occurs within a mil- Sleep peptides lisecond or less by the mechanism described earlier. The Calcitonin subsequent action of the small- molecule transmitter on the membrane receptors of the postsynaptic neuron usually also occurs within another millisecond or less. transport proteins required for synthesizing and/or con- Most often, the effect is to increase or decrease conduc- centrating new transmitter substances inside the vesicle. tance through ion channels; an example is to increase Acetylcholine is a typical small-m olecule transmitter sodium conductance, which causes excitation, or to that obeys the principles of synthesis and release, as stated increase potassium or chloride conductance, which earlier. This transmitter substance is synthesized in the causes inhibition. presynaptic terminal from acetyl coenzyme A and choline in the presence of the enzyme choline acetyltransferase. Recycling of Small- Molecule Types of Vesicles. Vesi- It is then transported into its specific vesicles. When the cles that store and release small-m olecule transmitters are vesicles later release acetylcholine into the synaptic cleft continually recycled and used over and over again. After during synaptic neuronal signal transmission, the acetyl- they fuse with the synaptic membrane and open to release choline is rapidly split again to acetate and choline by the their transmitters, the vesicle membrane at first simply enzyme cholinesterase, which
