Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


with the synaptic membrane and open to release choline is rapidly split again to acetate and choline by the their transmitters, the vesicle membrane at first simply enzyme cholinesterase, which is present in the proteo- becomes part of the synaptic membrane. However, within glycan reticulum that fills the space of the synaptic cleft. seconds to minutes, the vesicle portion of the membrane Then, once again, inside the presynaptic terminal, the invaginates back to the inside of the presynaptic terminal vesicles are recycled, and choline is actively transported and pinches off to form a new vesicle. The new vesicular back into the terminal to be used again for synthesis of new membrane still contains appropriate enzyme proteins or acetylcholine. 577 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Characteristics of Some Important Small-M olecule mechanism of formation in the presynaptic terminal and Transmitters. Acetylcholine is secreted by neurons in in its actions on the postsynaptic neuron. It is not pre- many areas of the nervous system but specifically by (1) formed and stored in vesicles in the presynaptic terminal, the terminals of the large pyramidal cells from the mo- as are other transmitters. Instead, it is synthesized almost tor cortex; (2) several different types of neurons in the instantly as needed and then diffuses out of the presynap- basal ganglia; (3) motor neurons that innervate the skel- tic terminals over a period of seconds rather than being etal muscles; (4) preganglionic neurons of the autonomic released in vesicular packets. Next, it diffuses into post- nervous system; (5) postganglionic neurons of the para- synaptic neurons nearby. In the postsynaptic neuron, it sympathetic nervous system; and (6) some of the post- usually does not alter the membrane potential greatly but ganglionic neurons of the sympathetic nervous system. In instead changes intracellular metabolic functions that most cases, acetylcholine has an excitatory effect; how- modify neuronal excitability for seconds, minutes, or per- ever, it is known to have inhibitory effects at some periph- haps even longer. eral parasympathetic nerve endings, such as inhibition of Neuropeptides the heart by the vagus nerves. Norepinephrine is secreted by the terminals of many Neuropeptides are synthesized differently and have neurons whose cell bodies are located in the brain stem actions that are usually slow and in other ways differ- and hypothalamus. Specifically, norepinephrine- secreting ent from those of the small-m olecule transmitters. The neurons
