Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


located in the brain stem actions that are usually slow and in other ways differ- and hypothalamus. Specifically, norepinephrine- secreting ent from those of the small-m olecule transmitters. The neurons located in the locus ceruleus in the pons send neuropeptides are not synthesized in the cytosol of the nerve fibers to widespread areas of the brain to help presynaptic terminals. Instead, they are synthesized as control overall activity and mood of the mind, such as integral parts of large- protein molecules by ribosomes in increasing the level of wakefulness. In most of these areas, the neuronal cell body. norepinephrine probably activates excitatory receptors, The protein molecules then enter the spaces inside the but in a few areas, it activates inhibitory receptors instead. endoplasmic reticulum of the cell body and subsequently Norepinephrine is also secreted by most postganglionic inside the Golgi apparatus, where two changes occur. neurons of the sympathetic nervous system, where it First, the neuropeptide- forming protein is enzymatically excites some organs but inhibits others. split into smaller fragments, some of which are either the Dopamine is secreted by neurons that originate in neuropeptide itself or a precursor of it. Second, the Golgi the substantia nigra. The termination of these neurons is apparatus packages the neuropeptide into minute trans- mainly in the striatal region of the basal ganglia. The effect mitter vesicles that are released into the cytoplasm. Then, of dopamine is usually inhibition. the transmitter vesicles are transported all the way to the Glycine is secreted mainly at synapses in the spinal cord. tips of the nerve fibers by axonal streaming of the axon It is believed to always act as an inhibitory transmitter. cytoplasm, traveling at the slow rate of only a few centi- Gamma- aminobutyric acid (GABA) is secreted by meters per day. Finally, these vesicles release their trans- nerve terminals in the spinal cord, cerebellum, basal gan- mitter at the neuronal terminals in response to action glia, and many areas of the cortex. It is the primary inhibi- potentials in the same manner as for small- molecule tory neurotransmitter in the adult central nervous system. transmitters. However, the vesicle is autolyzed and is not Yet, in the early stages of brain development, including the reused. embryonic period and first week of postnatal life, GABA Because of this laborious method of forming the neu- is thought to serve as an excitatory neurotransmitter. ropeptides, much smaller quantities
