Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


embryonic period and first week of postnatal life, GABA Because of this laborious method of forming the neu- is thought to serve as an excitatory neurotransmitter. ropeptides, much smaller quantities of neuropeptides Glutamate is secreted by the presynaptic terminals in than the small- molecule transmitters are usually released. many of the sensory pathways entering the central ner- This difference is partly compensated for by the fact that vous system, as well as in many areas of the cerebral cor- the neuropeptides are generally a thousand or more times tex. It probably always causes excitation. as potent as the small-m olecule transmitters. Another Serotonin is secreted by nuclei that originate in the important characteristic of the neuropeptides is that they median raphe of the brain stem and project to many brain often cause much more prolonged actions. Some of these and spinal cord areas, especially to the dorsal horns of the actions include prolonged closure of calcium channels, spinal cord and the hypothalamus. Serotonin acts as an prolonged changes in the metabolic machinery of cells, inhibitor of pain pathways in the cord; an inhibitor action prolonged changes in activation or deactivation of spe- in the higher regions of the nervous system is believed cific genes in the cell nucleus, and/or prolonged altera- to help control the mood of the person, perhaps even to tions in numbers of excitatory or inhibitory receptors. cause sleep. Some of these effects last for days, but others last perhaps Nitric oxide is produced by nerve terminals in areas for months or years. Our knowledge of the functions of of the brain responsible for long- term behavior and the neuropeptides is only beginning to develop. memory. Therefore, this gaseous transmitter might in Neuropeptide and Small- Molecule Transmitters May the future explain some behavior and memory functions Coexist in the Same Neurons. Slowly acting neuro- that thus far have defied understanding. Nitric oxide is peptide transmitters and rapidly acting, small-m olecule different from other small- molecule transmitters in its 578 Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters A Co-release synaptic vesicles of the same neuron and contribute to co- transmission of signals to a postsynaptic neuron. Moreo- Action potential ver, their release may be differentially regulated because of different calcium ion sensitivities (Figure 46- 8B) or spatial segregation of the vesicles on different boutons Ca2+ Ca2+ (Figure 46- 8C). The co- release
