Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


may be differentially regulated because of different calcium ion sensitivities (Figure 46- 8B) or spatial segregation of the vesicles on different boutons Ca2+ Ca2+ (Figure 46- 8C). The co- release of transmitters and co- transmission of signals obviously has important functional implications. Each different transmitter released from the same pre- synaptic neuron has its own specific receptors and may have inhibitory or excitatory influences on the postsyn- aptic target. Different neurons may release different com- binations of fast-a cting transmitters that directly activate B Co-transmission; differential Ca2+ sensitivity postsynaptic receptors, as well as slow- acting transmit- ters that require activation of second messenger cascades Single Multiple and postsynaptic changes in gene expression. action action potential potentials An example of co- release of two small molecule trans- mitters is found in the raphe nucleus, located in the brain stem. These neurons provide innervation to several brain Ca2+ Ca2+ regions, they can co-r elease serotonin and glutamate, and they play an important role in the cycle of sleeping and wakefulness (see Chapters 59 and 60). ELECTRICAL EVENTS DURING NEURONAL EXCITATION The electrical events in neuronal excitation have been studied especially in the large motor neurons of the C Co-transmission; Spatial segregation anterior horns of the spinal cord. Therefore, the events described in the next few sections pertain essentially to these neurons. Except for quantitative differences, they Action also apply to most other neurons of the nervous system. potential Ca2+ Ca2+ Resting Membrane Potential of the Neuronal Soma. Figure 46- 9 shows the soma of a spinal motor neuron, in- dicating a resting membrane potential of about −65 milli- volts (mV). This resting membrane potential is somewhat less negative than that found in large peripheral nerve fibers and in skeletal muscle fibers; the lower voltage is Figure 46- 8. Co- release of neurotransmitters and co-t ransmission of important because it allows both positive and negative neuronal signals. A, With co- release, both transmitters (green and control of the degree of excitability of the neuron. That purple) are stored in the same set of synaptic vesicles and released to- is, decreasing the voltage to a less negative value makes gether when an action potential reaches the presynaptic terminal. B, the membrane of the neuron more excitable, whereas in- With co-t ransmission, the transmitters are stored in different popula- tions of synaptic vesicles with differential release mediated by differ- creasing this voltage to a more
