Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


more excitable, whereas in- With co-t ransmission, the transmitters are stored in different popula- tions of synaptic vesicles with differential release mediated by differ- creasing this voltage to a more negative value makes the ent calcium ion (Ca2+) sensitivities; a single action potential might neuron less excitable. This mechanism is the basis for the release one set of vesicles (green), whereas multiple action potentials two modes of function of the neuron—either excitation might be required to release both sets of vesicles (green and purple). or inhibition—as explained in the next sections. C, Co- transmission can also rely on the spatial segregation of vesicle populations to different boutons, allowing uniform information to be Concentration Differences of Ions Across the transmitted to different postsynaptic targets. Neuronal Somal Membrane. Figure 46- 9 also shows the concentration differences across the neuronal somal transmitters are often stored and released from the same membrane of the three ions that are most important neurons. In some cases, two or more of these transmit- for neuronal function—sodium ions, potassium ions, ters are co- localized in the same synaptic vesicles and and chloride ions. At the top of this figure, the sodium are co- released when an action potential reaches the pr- ion concentration is shown to be high in the extracellular esynaptic terminal (Figure 46- 8A). In other cases, these fluid (142 mEq/L) but low inside the neuron (14 mEq/L). transmitters may be localized in different populations of This sodium concentration gradient is caused by a strong 579 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Dendrite calculates to be +61 mV. However, the actual membrane potential is −65 mV, not +61 mV. Therefore, the sodium ions that leak to the interior are immediately pumped back to the exterior by the sodium pump, thus maintain- ing the −65- mV negative potential inside the neuron. Na+: 142 mEq/L 14 mEq/L For potassium ions, the concentration gradient is 120 (Pumps) mEq/L inside the neuron and 4.5 mEq/L outside. This K+: 4.5 mEq/L 120 mEq/L (cid:31)65 Axon concentration gradient calculates to be a Nernst potential mV of −86 mV inside the neuron, which is more negative than Cl- : 107 mEq/L ? 8 mEq/L the −65 that actually exists. Therefore, because of the high Pump intracellular potassium ion concentration, there is a net tendency for potassium ions to diffuse to the outside of Axon hillock the
