Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


that actually exists. Therefore, because of the high Pump intracellular potassium ion concentration, there is a net tendency for potassium ions to diffuse to the outside of Axon hillock the neuron, but this action is opposed by continual pump- ing of these potassium ions back to the interior. Finally, the chloride ion gradient, 107 mEq/L outside and 8 mEq/L inside, yields a Nernst potential of −70 mV Figure 46- 9. Distribution of sodium, potassium, and chloride ions across the neuronal somal membrane; origin of the intrasomal mem- inside the neuron, which is only slightly more negative brane potential. than the actual measured value of −65 mV. Therefore, chloride ions tend to leak very slightly to the interior of somal membrane sodium pump that continually pumps the neuron, but those few that do leak are moved back to sodium out of the neuron. the exterior, perhaps by an active chloride pump. Figure 46- 9 also shows that potassium ion concentra- Keep these three Nernst potentials in mind, and tion is high inside the neuronal soma (120 mEq/L) but remember the direction in which the different ions tend low in the extracellular fluid (4.5 mEq/L). Furthermore, to diffuse, because this information is important in under- it shows that there is a potassium pump (the other half of standing both excitation and inhibition of the neuron by the Na+- K+ pump) that pumps potassium to the interior. synapse activation or inactivation of ion channels. Figure 46- 9 depicts the chloride ion to be of high con- Uniform Distribution of Electrical Potential Inside the centration in the extracellular fluid but of low concentra- Neuronal Soma. The interior of the neuronal soma con- tion inside the neuron. The membrane may be somewhat tains a highly conductive electrolytic solution, the intra- permeable to chloride ions, and there may be a weak cellular fluid of the neuron. Furthermore, the diameter of chloride pump. Yet, most of the reason for the low con- the neuronal soma is large (from 10 to 80 micrometers), centration of chloride ions inside the neuron is the −65 causing almost no resistance to conduction of electric mV in the neuron. That is, this negative voltage repels the current from one part of the somal interior to another negatively charged chloride ions, forcing them outward part. Therefore, any change in potential in any part of the through channels until the concentration is much less
