Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


somal interior to another negatively charged chloride ions, forcing them outward part. Therefore, any change in potential in any part of the through channels until the concentration is much less intrasomal fluid causes an almost exactly equal change in inside the membrane than outside. potential at all other points inside the soma, as long as the Let us recall from Chapters 4 and 5 that an electrical neuron is not transmitting an action potential. This prin- potential across the cell membrane can oppose move- ciple is important because it plays a major role in “summa- ment of ions through a membrane if the potential is of tion” of signals entering the neuron from multiple sources, proper polarity and magnitude. A potential that exactly as we shall see in subsequent sections of this chapter. opposes movement of an ion is called the Nernst potential for that ion, represented by the following equation: Effect of Synaptic Excitation on the Postsynaptic Membrane—Excitatory Postsynaptic Potential. Fig-  Concentration inside  EMF(mV)=±61× log  ure 46- 10A shows the resting neuron with an unexcited Concentration outside presynaptic terminal resting on its surface. The resting membrane potential everywhere in the soma is −65 mV. where EMF (electromotive force) is the Nernst potential Figure 46- 10B shows a presynaptic terminal that has in millivolts on the inside of the membrane. The potential secreted an excitatory transmitter into the cleft between will be negative (−) for positive ions and positive (+) for the terminal and neuronal somal membrane. This trans- negative ions. mitter acts on the membrane excitatory receptor to Now let us calculate the Nernst potential that will increase the membrane’s permeability to Na+. Because of exactly oppose the movement of each of the three sepa- the large sodium concentration gradient and large electri- rate ions—sodium, potassium, and chloride. cal negativity inside the neuron, sodium ions diffuse rap- For the sodium concentration difference shown in Fig- idly to the inside of the membrane. ure 46- 9 (142 mEq/L on the exterior and 14 mEq/L on the The rapid influx of positively charged sodium ions to interior), the membrane potential that will exactly oppose the interior neutralizes part of the negativity of the resting sodium ion movement through the sodium channels membrane potential. Thus, in Figure 46- 10B, the resting 580 Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters A main reason for
