Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the sodium channels membrane potential. Thus, in Figure 46- 10B, the resting 580 Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters A main reason for this point of origin of the action potential is that the soma has relatively few voltage- gated sodium channels in its membrane, which makes it difficult for the (cid:31)65 mV EPSP to open the required number of sodium channels to elicit an action potential. Conversely, the membrane of the initial segment has seven times as great a concentration Resting neuron of voltage-g ated sodium channels as the soma and, there- fore, can generate an action potential with much greater B Initial segment of axon ease than can the soma. The EPSP that will elicit an ac- Excitatory tion potential in the axon initial segment is between +10 and +20 mV, in contrast to the +30 or +40 mV or more (cid:31)45 mV required on the soma. Once the action potential begins, it travels peripherally Na+ along the axon and usually also backward over the soma. influx In some cases, it travels backward into the dendrites but Excited neuron Spread of action potential not into all of them because they, like the neuronal soma, C have very few voltage-g ated sodium channels and there- Cl(cid:31) influx fore frequently cannot generate action potentials at all. Inhibitory Thus, in Figure 46- 10B, the threshold for excitation of the (cid:31)70 mV neuron is shown to be about −45 mV, which represents an EPSP of +20 mV—that is, 20 mV more positive than the normal resting neuronal potential of −65 mV. K+ efflux Inhibited neuron ELECTRICAL EVENTS DURING NEURONAL Figure 46- 10. Three states of a neuron. A, Resting neuron, with a INHIBITION normal intraneuronal potential of −65 mV. B, Neuron in an excited state, with a less negative intraneuronal potential (−45 mV) caused by Effect of Inhibitory Synapses on the Postsynaptic sodium influx. C, Neuron in an inhibited state, with a more negative Membrane—Inhibitory Postsynaptic Potential. The intraneuronal membrane potential (−70 mV) caused by potassium ion efflux, chloride ion influx, or both. inhibitory synapses mainly open chloride channels, allow- ing for easier passage of chloride ions. To understand how the inhibitory synapses inhibit the postsynaptic neuron, membrane potential has increased in the positive direc- we must recall what we learned about the Nernst poten- tion from −65 to −45 mV. This positive increase in
