Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


postsynaptic neuron, membrane potential has increased in the positive direc- we must recall what we learned about the Nernst poten- tion from −65 to −45 mV. This positive increase in voltage tial for chloride ions. We calculated the Nernst potential above the normal resting neuronal potential—that is, to for chloride ions to be about −70 mV. This potential is a less negative value—is called the excitatory postsynap- more negative than the −65 mV normally present inside tic potential (EPSP), because if this potential rises high the resting neuronal membrane. Therefore, opening the enough in the positive direction, it will elicit an action chloride channels will allow negatively charged chloride potential in the postsynaptic neuron, thus exciting it. (In ions to move from the extracellular fluid to the interior, this case, the EPSP is +20 mV—i.e., 20 mV more positive which will make the interior membrane potential more than the resting value.) negative than normal, approaching the −70 mV level. Discharge of a single presynaptic terminal can never Opening potassium channels will allow positively increase the neuronal potential from −65 mV all the way charged potassium ions to move to the exterior and will up to −45 mV. An increase of this magnitude requires also make the interior membrane potential more nega- simultaneous discharge of many terminals—about 40 tive than usual. Thus, both chloride influx and potas- to 80 for the usual anterior motor neuron—at the same sium efflux increase the degree of intracellular negativity, time or in rapid succession. This simultaneous discharge called hyperpolarization. The neuron is inhibited because occurs by a process called summation, discussed in the the membrane potential is even more negative than the next sections. normal intracellular potential. Therefore, an increase in negativity beyond the normal resting membrane potential Generation of Action Potentials in the Initial Segment level is called an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP). of the Axon Leaving the Neuron—Threshold for Excitation. When the EPSP rises high enough in the Figure 46- 10C shows the effect on the membrane potential caused by activation of inhibitory synapses, positive direction, there comes a point at which this rise allowing chloride influx into the cell and/or potas- initiates an action potential in the neuron. However, the sium efflux out of the cell, with the membrane potential action potential does not begin adjacent to the excita- decreasing from its normal value of −65 mV to the more tory synapses.
