Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


out of the cell, with the membrane potential action potential does not begin adjacent to the excita- decreasing from its normal value of −65 mV to the more tory synapses. Instead, it begins in the initial segment of negative value of −70 mV. This membrane potential is 5 the axon where the axon leaves the neuronal soma. The mV more negative than normal and is therefore an IPSP 581 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology of −5 mV, which inhibits transmission of the nerve signal Precisely the opposite effect occurs for an IPSP. That is, the through the synapse. inhibitory synapse increases the permeability of the mem- brane to potassium or chloride ions, or both, for 1 to 2 milli- Presynaptic Inhibition seconds, and this action decreases the intraneuronal potential In addition to postsynaptic inhibition caused by inhibitory to a more negative value than normal, thereby creating the synapses operating at the neuronal membrane, presynap- IPSP. This potential also dies away in about 15 milliseconds. tic inhibition often occurs at the presynaptic terminals Other types of transmitter substances can excite or before the signal ever reaches the synapse. inhibit the postsynaptic neuron for much longer peri- Presynaptic inhibition is caused by release of an inhibi- ods—for hundreds of milliseconds or even for seconds, tory substance onto the outsides of the presynaptic nerve minutes, or hours. This is especially true for some of the fibrils before their own endings terminate on the post- neuropeptide transmitters. synaptic neuron. In most cases, the inhibitory transmitter “Spatial Summation” in Neurons— substance is GABA, which opens anion channels, allowing Threshold for Firing large numbers of chloride ions to diffuse into the terminal fibril. The negative charges of these ions inhibit synaptic Excitation of a single presynaptic terminal on the surface of transmission because they cancel much of the excitatory a neuron almost never excites the neuron. The amount of effect of the positively charged sodium ions that also enter transmitter released by a single terminal to cause an EPSP the terminal fibrils when an action potential arrives. is usually no more than 0.5 to 1 mV instead of the 10 to Presynaptic inhibition occurs in many of the sensory 20 mV normally required to reach threshold for excitation. pathways in the nervous system. In fact, adjacent sensory However, many presynaptic terminals are usually stim- nerve fibers often mutually
