Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sensory 20 mV normally required to reach threshold for excitation. pathways in the nervous system. In fact, adjacent sensory However, many presynaptic terminals are usually stim- nerve fibers often mutually inhibit one another, which ulated at the same time. Even though these terminals are minimizes sideways spread and mixing of signals in sen- spread over wide areas of the neuron, their effects can sory tracts. We discuss the importance of this phenom- still summate; that is, they can add to one another until enon more fully in subsequent chapters. neuronal excitation occurs. We pointed out earlier that a change in potential at any single point within the soma Time Course of Postsynaptic Potentials will cause the potential to change almost equally every- When an excitatory synapse excites the anterior motor where inside the soma. Therefore, for each excitatory syn- neuron, the neuronal membrane becomes highly perme- apse that discharges simultaneously, the total intrasomal able to sodium ions for 1 to 2 milliseconds. During this potential becomes more positive by 0.5 to 1.0 mV. When short time, enough sodium ions diffuse to the interior of the EPSP becomes great enough, the threshold for firing the postsynaptic motor neuron to increase its intraneu- will be reached, and an action potential will develop spon- ronal potential by a few millivolts, thus creating the EPSP taneously in the initial segment of the axon, as shown in shown by the blue and green curves of Figure 46- 11. Figure 46- 11. The bottom postsynaptic potential in the This potential then slowly declines over the next 15 mil- figure was caused by simultaneous stimulation of 4 syn- liseconds because this is the time required for the excess apses; the next higher potential was caused by stimula- positive charges to leak out of the excited neuron and re- tion of 8 synapses; finally, a still higher EPSP was caused establish the normal resting membrane potential. by stimulation of 16 synapses. In this last case, the firing threshold had been reached, and an action potential was generated in the axon. +20 16 16 synapses firing This effect of summing simultaneous postsynaptic potentials by activating multiple terminals on widely Action potential 8 8 synapses firing spaced areas of the neuronal membrane is called spatial 0 4 4 synapses firing summation. –20 “Temporal Summation” Caused by 16 Successive Discharges of a Presynaptic –40 Excitatory postsynaptic Terminal potential 8 Each time
