Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


neuronal membrane is called spatial 0 4 4 synapses firing summation. –20 “Temporal Summation” Caused by 16 Successive Discharges of a Presynaptic –40 Excitatory postsynaptic Terminal potential 8 Each time a presynaptic terminal fires, the released trans- –60 4 mitter substance opens the membrane channels for at Resting membrane potential most 1 or 2 milliseconds. However, the changed postsyn- –80 aptic potential lasts up to 15 milliseconds after the syn- 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 aptic membrane channels have already closed. Therefore, Milliseconds a second opening of the same channels can increase the Figure 46- 11. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials. This shows that postsynaptic potential to a still greater level, and the more simultaneous firing of only a few synapses will not cause sufficient rapid the rate of stimulation, the greater the postsynap- summated potential to elicit an action potential but that simultane- ous firing of many synapses will raise the summated potential to tic potential becomes. Thus, successive discharges from a threshold for excitation and cause a superimposed action potential. single presynaptic terminal, if they occur rapidly enough, 582 stlovilliM Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters can add to one another; that is, they can summate. This Decrement of Electrotonic Conduction in the type of summation is called temporal summation. Dendrites—Greater Excitatory (or Inhibitory) Effect by Synapses Located Near the Soma. In Figure 46- 12, Simultaneous Summation of Inhibitory and multiple excitatory and inhibitory synapses are shown Excitatory Postsynaptic Potentials. If an IPSP tends stimulating the dendrites of a neuron. On the two den- to decrease the membrane potential to a more negative drites to the left, there are excitatory effects near the tip value while an EPSP tends to increase the potential at ends. Note the high levels of EPSPs at these ends—that the same time, these two effects can completely or par- is, note the less negative membrane potentials at these tially nullify each other. Thus, if a neuron is being excit- points. However, a large share of the EPSP is lost before it ed by an EPSP, an inhibitory signal from another source reaches the soma. The dendrites are long, and their mem- can often reduce the postsynaptic potential to less than branes are thin and at least partially permeable to potas- threshold value for excitation, thus turning off the activ- sium and chloride ions, making
