Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the postsynaptic potential to less than branes are thin and at least partially permeable to potas- threshold value for excitation, thus turning off the activ- sium and chloride ions, making them “leaky” to electric ity of the neuron. current. Therefore, before the excitatory potentials can reach the soma, a large share of the potential is lost by Facilitation of Neurons leakage through the membrane. This decrease in mem- Often, the summated postsynaptic potential is excitatory brane potential as it spreads electrotonically along den- but has not risen high enough to reach the threshold for drites toward the soma is called decremental conduction. firing by the postsynaptic neuron. When this situation The farther the excitatory synapse is from the soma occurs, the neuron is said to be facilitated. That is, its of the neuron, the greater will be the decrement and the membrane potential is nearer the threshold for firing than lesser will be excitatory signal reaching the soma. There- normal but is not yet at the firing level. Consequently, fore, the synapses that lie near the soma have far more another excitatory signal entering the neuron from some effect in causing neuron excitation or inhibition than other source can then excite the neuron very easily. Dif- those that lie far away from the soma. fuse signals in the nervous system often do facilitate large groups of neurons so that they can respond quickly and Summation of Excitation and Inhibition in Dendrites. easily to signals arriving from other sources. The uppermost dendrite of Figure 46- 12 is shown to be stimulated by both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. At SPECIAL FUNCTIONS OF DENDRITES FOR the tip of the dendrite is a strong EPSP, but nearer the EXCITING NEURONS soma are two inhibitory synapses acting on the same den- drite. These inhibitory synapses provide a hyperpolariz- Large Spatial Field of Excitation of Dendrites. The ing voltage that completely nullifies the excitatory effect dendrites of the anterior motor neurons often extend 500 and, indeed, transmits a small amount of inhibition by to 1000 micrometers in all directions from the neuronal electrotonic conduction toward the soma. Thus, den- soma, and these dendrites can receive signals from a large spatial area around the motor neuron. This feature pro- vides a vast opportunity for summation of signals from (cid:31) E many separate presynaptic nerve fibers. 2 0 0 E 2 (cid:31) It is also important that between
