Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


synaptic function because when areas of the nervous 0 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 system become overexcited, fatigue causes them to lose this excess excitability after a while. For example, fatigue Excitatory state (arbitrary units) is probably the most important means whereby the Figure 46- 13. Response characteristics of different types of neurons excess excitability of the brain during an epileptic seizure to different levels of excitatory state. is finally subdued so that the seizure ceases. Thus, the development of fatigue is a protective mechanism against drites can summate excitatory and IPSPs in the same way excess neuronal activity. This subject is discussed further as soma. Also shown in the figure are several inhibitory in the description of reverberating neuronal circuits in synapses located directly on the axon hillock and initial Chapter 47. axon segment. This location provides especially powerful The mechanism of fatigue is mainly exhaustion or inhibition because it has the direct effect of increasing the partial exhaustion of the stores of transmitters in the threshold for excitation at the very point where the action presynaptic terminals. The excitatory terminals on many potential is normally generated. neurons can store enough excitatory transmitter to cause only about 10,000 action potentials, and the transmitter EXCITATION STATE OF THE NEURON AND can be exhausted in only a few seconds to a few minutes RATE OF FIRING of rapid stimulation. Part of the fatigue process probably results from two other factors as well: (1) progressive inac- “Excitatory State” Is the Summated Degree of tivation of many of the postsynaptic membrane receptors; Excitatory Drive to the Neuron. If there is a higher and (2) slow development of abnormal concentrations of degree of excitation than inhibition of the neuron at any ions inside the postsynaptic neuronal cell. given instant, it is in an excitatory state. Conversely, if there is more inhibition than excitation, the neuron is in Effect of Acidosis or Alkalosis on Synaptic an inhibitory state. Transmission. Most neurons are highly responsive to When the excitatory state of a neuron rises above the changes in pH of the surrounding interstitial fluids. Nor- threshold for excitation, the neuron will fire repetitively mally, alkalosis greatly increases neuronal excitability. For as long as the excitatory state remains at that level. Fig- example, a rise in arterial blood pH from the 7.4 norm to ure 46- 13 shows responses of three types of neurons
