Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the excitatory state remains at that level. Fig- example, a rise in arterial blood pH from the 7.4 norm to ure 46- 13 shows responses of three types of neurons to 7.8 to 8.0 often causes cerebral epileptic seizures because varying levels of excitatory state. Note that neuron 1 has a of increased excitability of some or all of the cerebral neu- low threshold for excitation, whereas neuron 3 has a high rons. In a person who is predisposed to epileptic seizures, threshold. But, note also that neuron 2 has the lowest even a short period of hyperventilation, which blows off maximum frequency of discharge, whereas neuron 3 has carbon dioxide and elevates the pH, may precipitate an the highest maximum frequency. epileptic attack. Some neurons in the central nervous system fire Conversely, acidosis greatly depresses neuronal activ- continuously because even the normal excitatory ity; a fall in pH from 7.4 to below 7.0 usually causes a state is above the threshold level. Their frequency of comatose state. For example, in very severe diabetic or firing can usually be increased still more by further uremic acidosis, coma almost always develops. increasing their excitatory state. The frequency can be Effect of Hypoxia on Synaptic Transmission. Neuronal decreased, or firing can even be stopped, by super- excitability is also highly dependent on an adequate sup- imposing an inhibitory state on the neuron. Thus, ply of oxygen. Cessation of oxygen for only a few seconds different neurons respond differently, have different can cause complete inexcitability of some neurons. This thresholds for excitation, and have widely differing effect is observed when the brain’s blood flow is tempo- maximum frequencies of discharge. With a little imag- rarily interrupted because within 3 to 7 seconds, the per- ination, one can readily understand the importance son becomes unconscious. of having different neurons with these many types of response characteristics to perform the widely varying Effect of Drugs on Synaptic Transmission. Many drugs functions of the nervous system. are known to increase the excitability of neurons, and 584 dnoces rep egrahcsid fo ycneuqerF Chapter 46 Organization of the Nervous System, Basic Functions of Synapses, and Neurotransmitters others are known to decrease excitability. For example, urement of delay time, one can then estimate the number caffeine, theophylline, and theobromine, which are found of series neurons in the circuit. in coffee, tea, and cocoa, respectively, all increase neu- ronal excitability,
