Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


one can then estimate the number caffeine, theophylline, and theobromine, which are found of series neurons in the circuit. in coffee, tea, and cocoa, respectively, all increase neu- ronal excitability, presumably by reducing the threshold Bibliography for excitation of neurons. Strychnine is one of the best known of all agents that Alcamí P, Pereda AE: Beyond plasticity: the dynamic impact of electri- increase excitability of neurons. However, it does not cal synapses on neural circuits. Nat Rev Neurosci 20:253, 2019. Ben- Ari Y, Gaiarsa JL, Tyzio R, Khazipov R: GABA: a pioneer transmit- do this by reducing the threshold for excitation of the ter that excites immature neurons and generates primitive oscilla- neurons; instead, it inhibits the action of some normally tions. Physiol Rev 87:1215, 2007. inhibitory transmitter substances, especially the inhibitory Chanaday NL, Kavalali ET: Presynaptic origins of distinct modes of effect of glycine in the spinal cord. Therefore, the effects neurotransmitter release. Curr Opin Neurobiol 51:119, 2018. of the excitatory transmitters become overwhelming, Chiu CQ, Barberis A, Higley MJ: Preserving the balance: diverse forms of long- term GABAergic synaptic plasticity. Nat Rev Neurosci and the neurons become so excited that they go into rap- 20:272, 2019. idly repetitive discharge, resulting in severe tonic muscle Dittman JS, Ryan TA: The control of release probability at nerve termi- spasms. nals. Nat Rev Neurosci 20:177, 2019. Most anesthetics increase the neuronal membrane Kaczmarek LK, Zhang Y: Kv3 channels: enablers of rapid firing, threshold for excitation and thereby decrease synap- neurotransmitter release, and neuronal endurance. Physiol Rev 97:1431, 2017. tic transmission at many points in the nervous system. Kandel ER, Dudai Y, Mayford MR: The molecular and systems biology Because many of the anesthetics are especially lipid- of memory. Cell 157:163, 2014. soluble, some of them might change the physical charac- Kavalali ET: The mechanisms and functions of spontaneous neuro- teristics of the neuronal membranes, making them less transmitter release. Nat Rev Neurosci 16:5, 2015. responsive to excitatory agents. Lorenz-G uertin JM, Jacob TC: GABA type a receptor trafficking and the architecture of synaptic inhibition. Dev Neurobiol 78:238, Synaptic Delay. During transmission of a neuronal sig- 2018. Ludwig M, Apps D, Menzies J, Patel JC, Rice ME: Dendritic release of nal from a presynaptic neuron to a postsynaptic neuron, a neurotransmitters. Compr Physiol 7:235, 2016. certain amount of time is consumed in the process of (1) Nagy JI, Pereda AE, Rash JE:
