Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


do become highly the basic mechanisms whereby these receptors change active the moment tactile stimuli become severe enough sensory stimuli into nerve signals that are then conveyed to damage the tissues. to and processed in the central nervous system. Modality of Sensation—The “Labeled Line” Principle TYPES OF SENSORY RECEPTORS AND THE STIMULI THEY DETECT Each of the principal types of sensation that we can expe- rience—pain, touch, sight, sound, and so forth—is called a Table 47- 1 lists and classifies five basic types of sensory modality of sensation. Yet, despite the fact that we experi- receptors: (1) mechanoreceptors, which detect mechani- ence these different modalities of sensation, nerve fibers cal compression or stretching of the receptor or of tissues transmit only impulses. Therefore, how do different nerve adjacent to the receptor; (2) thermoreceptors, which detect fibers transmit different modalities of sensation? changes in temperature, with some receptors detecting The answer is that each nerve tract terminates at a spe- cold and others detecting warmth; (3) nociceptors (pain cific point in the central nervous system, and the type of sen- receptors), which detect physical or chemical damage sation felt when a nerve fiber is stimulated is determined by occurring in the tissues; (4) electromagnetic receptors, the point in the nervous system to which the fiber leads. For which detect light on the retina of the eye; and (5) che- example, if a pain fiber is stimulated, the person perceives moreceptors, which detect taste in the mouth, smell in the pain regardless of what type of stimulus excites the fiber. The nose, oxygen level in the arterial blood, osmolality of the stimulus can be electricity, overheating of the fiber, crushing body fluids, carbon dioxide concentration, and other fac- of the fiber, or stimulation of the pain nerve ending by dam- tors that make up the chemistry of the body. age to the tissue cells. In all these cases, the person perceives We will discuss the function of a few specific types pain. Likewise, if a touch fiber is stimulated by electrical exci- of receptors, primarily peripheral mechanoreceptors, to tation of a touch receptor or in any other way, the person illustrate some of the principles whereby receptors oper- perceives touch because touch fibers lead to specific touch ate. Other receptors are discussed in other chapters in areas in the brain. Similarly, fibers from the retina of the eye relation to the sensory
