Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fibers lead to specific touch ate. Other receptors are discussed in other chapters in areas in the brain. Similarly, fibers from the retina of the eye relation to the sensory systems that they subserve. Figure terminate in the vision areas of the brain, fibers from the ear 47- 1 shows some of the types of mechanoreceptors found terminate in the auditory areas of the brain, and temperature in the skin or in deep tissues of the body. fibers terminate in the temperature areas. This specificity of nerve fibers for transmitting only one DIFFERENTIAL SENSITIVITY OF RECEPTORS modality of sensation is called the labeled line principle. How do two types of sensory receptors detect different types of sensory stimuli? The answer is “by differential TRANSDUCTION OF SENSORY STIMULI sensitivities.” That is, each type of receptor is highly sensi- INTO NERVE IMPULSES tive to one type of stimulus for which it is designed and yet is almost nonresponsive to other types of sensory LOCAL ELECTRICAL CURRENTS AT NERVE stimuli. Thus, the rods and cones of the eyes are highly ENDINGS—RECEPTOR POTENTIALS responsive to light but are almost completely nonre- All sensory receptors have one feature in common. sponsive to normal ranges of heat, cold, pressure on the Whatever the type of stimulus that excites the receptor, eyeballs, or chemical changes in the blood. The osmo- its immediate effect is to change the membrane electrical receptors of the supraoptic nuclei in the hypothalamus 587 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Table 47- 1 Classification of Sensory Receptors I. Mechanoreceptors Skin tactile sensibilities (epidermis and dermis) • Free nerve endings • Expanded tip endings Merkel’s discs Plus several other variants • Spray endings Free nerve Expanded tip Tactile hair • Ruffini’s endings endings receptor • Encapsulated endings Meissner’s corpuscles Krause’s corpuscles • Hair end- organs Deep tissue sensibilities • Free nerve endings • Expanded tip endings • Spray endings Ruffini’s endings • Encapsulated endings Pacinian Meissner’s Krause’s corpuscle corpuscle corpuscle Pacinian corpuscles Plus a few other variants • Muscle endings Muscle spindles Golgi tendon receptors Hearing • Sound receptors of cochlea Equilibrium • Vestibular receptors Arterial pressure Ruffini’s Golgi tendon Muscle • Baroreceptors of carotid sinuses and aorta endings apparatus spindle II. Thermoreceptors Figure 47- 1 Several types of somatic sensory nerve endings. Cold • Cold receptors Warmth receptor, which stretches the receptor membrane and • Warm
