Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


aorta endings apparatus spindle II. Thermoreceptors Figure 47- 1 Several types of somatic sensory nerve endings. Cold • Cold receptors Warmth receptor, which stretches the receptor membrane and • Warm receptors opens ion channels; (2) by application of a chemical to III. Nociceptors the membrane, which also opens ion channels; (3) by Pain change of the temperature of the membrane, which alters • Free nerve endings the permeability of the membrane; or (4) by the effects of IV. Electromagnetic Receptors electromagnetic radiation, such as light on a retinal visual Vision receptor, which either directly or indirectly changes the • Rods • Cones receptor membrane characteristics and allows ions to V. Chemoreceptors flow through membrane channels. Taste These four means of exciting receptors correspond in • Receptors of taste buds general to the different types of known sensory receptors. Smell In all cases, the basic cause of the change in membrane • Receptors of olfactory epithelium potential is a change in membrane permeability of the Arterial oxygen receptor, which allows ions to diffuse more or less readily • Receptors of aortic and carotid bodies Osmolality through the membrane and thereby to change the trans- • Neurons in or near supraoptic nuclei membrane potential. Blood CO • Recep2 tors in or on surface of medulla and in aortic and Maximum Receptor Potential Amplitude. The maxi- carotid bodies mum amplitude of most sensory receptor potentials is Blood glucose, amino acids, fatty acids about 100 mV, but this level occurs only at an extremely • Receptors in hypothalamus high intensity of sensory stimulus. This is about the same maximum voltage recorded in action potentials and is also the change in voltage when the membrane becomes potential of the receptor. This change in potential is called maximally permeable to sodium ions. a receptor potential. Relation of the Receptor Potential to Action Po- Mechanisms of Receptor Potentials. Different recep- tentials. When the receptor potential rises above the tors can be excited in one of several ways to cause re- threshold for eliciting action potentials in the nerve fiber ceptor potentials: (1) by mechanical deformation of the attached to the receptor, then action potentials occur, as 588 Chapter 47 Sensory Receptors, Neuronal Circuits for Processing Information 100 Action potentials (cid:31)30 90 80 0 70 (cid:30)30 60 Receptor potential 50 (cid:30)60 Threshold 40 (cid:30)90 Resting membrane potential 30 0 10 20 30 40 60 80 100 120 140
