Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


indent, or otherwise deform the 4, one can see that very intense stimulation of the recep- central fiber. tor causes progressively less and less additional increase Figure 47- 3 shows only the central fiber of the Pacin- in numbers of action potentials. This exceedingly impor- ian corpuscle after all capsule layers but one have been tant principle is applicable to almost all sensory receptors. removed. The tip of the central fiber inside the capsule is It allows the receptor to be sensitive to very weak sensory unmyelinated, but the fiber does become myelinated (the experience and yet not reach a maximum firing rate until blue sheath shown in the figure) shortly before leaving the the sensory experience is extreme. This feature allows the corpuscle to enter a peripheral sensory nerve. receptor to have an extreme range of response—from Figure 47- 3 also shows the mechanism whereby a very weak to very intense. receptor potential is produced in the Pacinian corpuscle. Observe the small area of the terminal fiber that has been ADAPTATION OF RECEPTORS deformed by compression of the corpuscle, and note that ion channels have opened in the membrane, allowing Another characteristic of sensory receptors is that they positively charged sodium ions to diffuse to the interior adapt either partially or completely to any constant stim- of the fiber. This action creates increased positivity inside ulus after a period of time. That is, when a continuous sen- the fiber, called the “receptor potential.” The receptor sory stimulus is applied, the receptor responds at a high 589 )stlovillim( laitnetop enarbmeM devresbo fo edutilpmA )tnecrep( laitnetop rotpecer UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology receptor potential is no longer elicited. Thus, the receptor 250 potential appears at the onset of compression but disap- pears within a small fraction of a second, even though the 200 compression continues. Joint capsule receptors The second, much slower mechanism of adaptation 150 of the Pacinian corpuscle results from a process called Muscle spindle accommodation, which occurs in the nerve fiber itself. 100 That is, even if by chance the central core fiber should Pacinian corpuscle 50 continue to be distorted, the tip of the nerve fiber gradu- ally becomes accommodated to the stimulus. This prob- Hair receptor 0 ably results from progressive “inactivation” of the sodium 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 channels in the nerve
