Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


accommodated to the stimulus. This prob- Hair receptor 0 ably results from progressive “inactivation” of the sodium 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 channels in the nerve fiber membrane, which means that Seconds sodium current flow through the channels causes them Figure 47- 5 Adaptation of different types of receptors showing to close gradually, an effect that seems to occur for all or rapid adaptation of some receptors and slow adaptation of others. most cell membrane sodium channels, as was explained in Chapter 5. Presumably, these same two general mechanisms of impulse rate at first and then at a progressively slower rate adaptation also apply to the other types of mechano- until, finally, the rate of action potentials decreases to very receptors. That is, part of the adaptation results from few or to none at all. readjustments in the structure of the receptor, and part Figure 47- 5 shows typical adaptation of certain types results from an electrical type of accommodation in the of receptors. Note that the Pacinian corpuscle adapts very terminal nerve fibril. rapidly, hair receptors adapt within a second or so, and some joint capsule and muscle spindle receptors adapt Slowly Adapting Receptors Detect Continuous Stim- slowly. ulus Strength—the “Tonic” Receptors. Slowly adapting Furthermore, some sensory receptors adapt to a far receptors continue to transmit impulses to the brain as greater extent than others. For example, the Pacinian cor- long as the stimulus is present (or at least for many min- puscles adapt to “extinction” within a few hundredths of utes or hours). Therefore, they keep the brain constantly a second, and the receptors at the bases of the hairs adapt apprised of the status of the body and its relation to its to extinction within a second or more. It is probable that surroundings. For example, impulses from the muscle most mechanoreceptors eventually adapt almost com- spindles and Golgi tendon apparatuses allow the nervous pletely, but some require hours or days to do so, and they system to know the status of muscle contraction and load are called “nonadapting” receptors. The longest measured on the muscle tendon at each instant. time for almost complete adaptation of a mechanorecep- Other slowly adapting receptors include the following: tor is about 2 days, which is the adaptation time for many (1) receptors of the macula in the vestibular apparatus; (2) carotid and aortic baroreceptors; however, some
