Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the following: tor is about 2 days, which is the adaptation time for many (1) receptors of the macula in the vestibular apparatus; (2) carotid and aortic baroreceptors; however, some physiol- pain receptors; (3) baroreceptors of the arterial tree; and ogists believe that these specialized baroreceptors never (4) chemoreceptors of the carotid and aortic bodies. fully adapt. Some of the nonmechanoreceptors—the che- Because the slowly adapting receptors can continue to moreceptors and pain receptors, for example—probably transmit information for many hours, or even days, they never adapt completely. are called tonic receptors. Mechanisms by Which Receptors Adapt. The mecha- Rapidly Adapting Receptors Detect Change in Stimu- nism of receptor adaptation is different for each type of lus Strength—the “Rate Receptors,” “Movement Re- receptor in much the same way that development of a ceptors,” or “Phasic Receptors.” Receptors that adapt receptor potential is an individual property. For example, rapidly cannot be used to transmit a continuous signal be- in the eye, the rods and cones adapt by changing the con- cause they are stimulated only when the stimulus strength centrations of their light- sensitive chemicals (discussed in changes. Yet, they react strongly while a change is actu- Chapter 51). ally taking place. Therefore, these receptors are called rate In the case of the mechanoreceptors, the receptor that receptors, movement receptors, or phasic receptors. Thus, has been studied in greatest detail is the Pacinian cor- in the case of the Pacinian corpuscle, sudden pressure puscle. Adaptation occurs in this receptor in two ways. applied to the tissue excites this receptor for a few mil- First, the Pacinian corpuscle is a viscoelastic structure, so liseconds, and then its excitation is over, even though the that when a distorting force is suddenly applied to one pressure continues. Later, however, it transmits a signal side of the corpuscle, this force is instantly transmitted again when the pressure is released. In other words, the by the viscous component of the corpuscle directly to the Pacinian corpuscle is exceedingly important in apprising same side of the central nerve fiber, thus eliciting a recep- the nervous system of rapid tissue deformations, but it is tor potential. However, within a few hundredths of a sec- useless for transmitting information about constant con- ond, the fluid within the corpuscle redistributes, and the ditions in the body. 590 dnoces rep seslupmI Chapter 47 Sensory Receptors, Neuronal Circuits for Processing Information Predictive
