Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


about constant con- ond, the fluid within the corpuscle redistributes, and the ditions in the body. 590 dnoces rep seslupmI Chapter 47 Sensory Receptors, Neuronal Circuits for Processing Information Predictive Function of the Rate Receptors. If the rate at Myelinated Unmyelinated which some change in the body’s status is taking place is Diameter (micrometers) known, the state of the body a few seconds or even a few 20 15 10 5 12.0 0.5 minutes later can be predicted. For example, the recep- tors of the semicircular canals in the vestibular apparatus Conduction velocity (m/sec) of the ear detect the rate at which the head begins to turn 120 80 60 30 62.0 0.5 when a person runs around a curve. Using this informa- General classification tion, a person can predict how much he or she will turn A C within the next 2 seconds and can adjust the motion of (cid:28) the legs ahead of time to keep from losing balance. Like- (cid:29) (cid:30) wise, receptors located in or near the joints help detect (cid:31) the rates of movement of the different parts of the body. Sensory nerve classification For example, when a person is running, information from I II III IV the joint rate receptors allows the nervous system to pre- Ia dict where the feet will be during any precise fraction of Ib the next second. Therefore, appropriate motor signals Sensory functions can be transmitted to the muscles of the legs to make any Muscle spindle Muscle spindle (primary ending) (secondary ending) necessary anticipatory corrections in position so that the Muscle tendon person will not fall. Loss of this predictive function makes (Golgi tendon organ) it impossible for the person to run. Hair receptors Vibration (Pacinian corpuscle) Nerve Fibers That Transmit Different Types of Sig- High discrimination touch Crude touch nals and Their Physiological Classification (Meissner's expanded tips) and pressure Deep pressure Some signals need to be transmitted to or from the cen- and touch Tickle tral nervous system extremely rapidly; otherwise, the Pricking pain Aching pain information would be useless. An example of this is the Cold sensory signals that apprise the brain of the momentary Warmth positions of the legs at each fraction of a second during Motor function running. At the other extreme, some types of sensory in- Skeletal muscle Muscle spindle Sympathetic formation, such as that depicting prolonged aching pain, (type A(cid:28)) (type A(cid:30))
