Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


during Motor function running. At the other extreme, some types of sensory in- Skeletal muscle Muscle spindle Sympathetic formation, such as that depicting prolonged aching pain, (type A(cid:28)) (type A(cid:30)) (type C) do not need to be transmitted rapidly, and thus slowly 20 15 10 5 12.0 0.5 conducting fibers will suffice. As shown in Figure 47-6 , Nerve fiber diameter (micrometers) nerve fibers come in all sizes, from 0.5 to 20 micrometers Figure 47- 6 Physiological classifications and functions of nerve in diameter; the larger the diameter, the greater the con- fibers. ducting velocity. The range of conducting velocities is be- tween 0.5 and 120 m/sec. General Classification of Nerve Fibers. Shown in Fig- same recording techniques cannot distinguish easily be- ure 47- 6 is a “general classification” and a “sensory nerve tween Aβ and Aγ fibers. Therefore, the following classifica- classification” of the different types of nerve fibers. In the tion is frequently used by sensory physiologists. general classification, the fibers are divided into types A Group Ia. Fibers from the annulospiral endings of mus- and C; the type A fibers are further subdivided into α, β, cle spindles (≈17 microns in diameter on average; these fib- γ, and δ fibers. ers are α- type A fibers in the general classification). Type A fibers are the typical large and medium- sized Group Ib. Fibers from the Golgi tendon organs (≈16 myelinated fibers of spinal nerves. Type C fibers are the micrometers in diameter on average; these fibers also are small unmyelinated nerve fibers that conduct impulses at α- type A fibers). low velocities. The C fibers constitute more than half of the Group II. Fibers from most discrete cutaneous tac- sensory fibers in most peripheral nerves, as well as all the tile receptors and from the flower- spray endings of the postganglionic autonomic fibers. muscle spindles (≈8 micrometers in diameter on aver- The sizes, velocities of conduction, and functions of the age; these fibers are β- and γ- type A fibers in the general different nerve fiber types are also given in Figure 47- 6. classification). Note that a few large myelinated fibers can transmit im- Group III. Fibers carrying temperature, crude touch, pulses at velocities as great as 120 m/sec, covering a dis- and pricking pain sensations (≈3 micrometers in diameter tance that is longer than a football field in 1 second. Con- on average; they are
