Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


as 120 m/sec, covering a dis- and pricking pain sensations (≈3 micrometers in diameter tance that is longer than a football field in 1 second. Con- on average; they are δ- type A fibers in the general classifi- versely, the smallest fibers transmit impulses as slowly as cation). 0.5 m/sec, requiring about 2 seconds to go from the big toe Group IV. Unmyelinated fibers carrying pain, itch, to the spinal cord. Alternative Classification Used by Sensory Physiolo- temperature, and crude touch sensations (0.5–2 microm- gists. Certain recording techniques have made it possible eters in diameter; they are type C fibers in the general classification). to separate the type Aα fibers into two subgroups, yet these 591 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology 80 Pin 60 40 20 0 Nerve Time Skin Figure 47- 8 Translation of signal strength into a frequency- modulated series of nerve impulses, showing the strength of signal (above) and the separate nerve impulses (below). This illustration is an example of temporal summation. the periphery of the field because of the greater number of free nerve endings in the middle of the field. Thus, the lower part of Figure 47-7 shows three Weak Moderate Strong views of the cross section of the nerve bundle leading stimulus stimulus stimulus from the skin area. To the left is the effect of a weak Figure 47-7 Pattern of stimulation of pain fibers in a nerve leading stimulus, with only a single nerve fiber in the middle from an area of skin pricked by a pin. This pattern of stimulation is an example of spatial summation. of the bundle stimulated strongly (represented by the red- colored fiber), whereas several adjacent fibers are stimulated weakly (half- red fibers). The other two views of the nerve cross section show the effect of a moderate SIGNAL INTENSITY TRANSMISSION stimulus and a strong stimulus, with progressively more IN NERVE TRACTS—SPATIAL AND fibers being stimulated. Thus, the stronger signals spread TEMPORAL SUMMATION to more and more fibers, a phenomenon called spatial One of the characteristics of each signal that always must summation. be conveyed is signal intensity—for example, the inten- Temporal Summation. A second means for transmit- sity of pain. The different gradations of intensity can be ting signals of increasing strength is by increasing the fre- transmitted either by using increasing numbers of parallel quency of nerve impulses
