Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pain. The different gradations of intensity can be ting signals of increasing strength is by increasing the fre- transmitted either by using increasing numbers of parallel quency of nerve impulses in each fiber, called temporal fibers or by sending more action potentials along a single summation. Figure 47- 8 demonstrates this phenomenon, fiber. These two mechanisms are called, respectively, spa- showing a changing strength of signal in the upper part tial summation and temporal summation. and the actual impulses transmitted by the nerve fiber in Spatial Summation. Figure 47-7 shows the phenom- the lower part. enon of spatial summation, whereby increasing signal strength is transmitted by using progressively greater TRANSMISSION AND PROCESSING OF numbers of fibers. This figure shows a section of skin in- SIGNALS IN NEURONAL POOLS nervated by a large number of parallel pain fibers. Each of these fibers arborizes into hundreds of minute free The central nervous system is composed of thousands nerve endings that serve as pain receptors. The entire to millions of neuronal pools; some of these pools con- cluster of fibers from one pain fiber frequently covers an tain few neurons, whereas others have vast numbers. area of skin as large as 5 centimeters in diameter. This For example, the entire cerebral cortex could be consid- area is called the receptor field of that fiber. The num- ered to be a single large neuronal pool. Other neuronal ber of endings is large in the center of the field but di- pools include the different basal ganglia and the specific minishes toward the periphery. One can also see from nuclei in the thalamus, cerebellum, mesencephalon, the figure that the arborizing fibrils overlap those from pons, and medulla. Also, the entire dorsal gray matter other pain fibers. Therefore, a pinprick of the skin usu- of the spinal cord could be considered one long pool of ally stimulates endings from many different pain fibers neurons. simultaneously. When the pinprick is in the center of the Each neuronal pool has its own special organization receptive field of a particular pain fiber, the degree of that causes it to process signals in its own unique way, stimulation of that fiber is far greater than when it is in thus allowing the total consortium of pools to achieve the 592 langis fo htgnertS )dnoces rep seslupmi( seslupmI Chapter 47 Sensory Receptors, Neuronal Circuits for Processing Information Facilitated zone 1 a
