Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


allowing the total consortium of pools to achieve the 592 langis fo htgnertS )dnoces rep seslupmi( seslupmI Chapter 47 Sensory Receptors, Neuronal Circuits for Processing Information Facilitated zone 1 a Input nerve Discharge zone fiber b Facilitated zone Figure 47- 10 “Discharge” and “facilitated” zones of a neuronal pool. c to cause excitation. For example, in Figure 47- 9, let us assume that six terminals must discharge almost simulta- neously to excite any one of the neurons. Note that input d fiber 1 has more than enough terminals to cause neuron a 2 to discharge. The stimulus from input fiber 1 to this neu- ron is said to be an excitatory stimulus; it is also called a suprathreshold stimulus because it is above the threshold required for excitation. Input fiber 1 also contributes terminals to neurons b and c, but not enough to cause excitation. Nevertheless, discharge of these terminals makes both these neurons more likely to be excited by signals arriving through other Figure 47- 9 Basic organization of a neuronal pool. See text for incoming nerve fibers. Therefore, the stimuli to these details. neurons are said to be subthreshold, and the neurons are said to be facilitated. Similarly, for input fiber 2, the stimulus to neuron d is a multitude of functions of the nervous system. Yet, despite suprathreshold stimulus, and the stimuli to neurons b and their differences in function, the pools also have many c are subthreshold, but facilitating, stimuli. similar principles of function, described in the following Figure 47- 9 represents a highly condensed version of sections. a neuronal pool because each input nerve fiber usually provides massive numbers of branching terminals to hun- dreds or thousands of neurons in its distribution “field,” RELAYING OF SIGNALS THROUGH NEURONAL POOLS as shown in Figure 47- 10. In the central portion of the field in this figure, designated by the circled area, all the Organization of Neurons for Relaying Signals. neurons are stimulated by the incoming fiber. Therefore, Figure 47-9 is a schematic diagram of several neurons this is said to be the discharge zone of the incoming fiber, in a neuronal pool, showing input fibers to the left and also called the excited zone or liminal zone. To each side, “output” fibers to the right. Each input fiber divides the neurons are facilitated but not excited; these areas are hundreds to thousands of times, providing a
