Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


zone. To each side, “output” fibers to the right. Each input fiber divides the neurons are facilitated but not excited; these areas are hundreds to thousands of times, providing a thousand called the facilitated zone, also called the subthreshold or more terminal fibrils that spread into a large area in zone or subliminal zone. the pool to synapse with dendrites or cell bodies of the Inhibition of a Neuronal Pool. Some incoming fibers in- neurons in the pool. The dendrites usually also arbo- hibit neurons, rather than exciting them. This mechanism rize and spread hundreds to thousands of micrometers is the opposite of facilitation, and the entire field of the in- in the pool. hibitory branches is called the inhibitory zone. The degree The neuronal area stimulated by each incoming nerve of inhibition in the center of this zone is great because of fiber is called its stimulatory field. Note that large num- large numbers of endings in the center and becomes pro- bers of the terminals from each input fiber lie on the near- gressively less toward its edges. est neuron in its “field,” but progressively fewer terminals lie on the neurons farther away. Divergence of Signals Passing Through Neuronal Pools Threshold and Subthreshold Stimuli—Excitation or Facilitation. As discussed in Chapter 46, discharge of a Often, it is important for weak signals entering a neuronal single excitatory presynaptic terminal almost never caus- pool to excite far greater numbers of nerve fibers leav- es an action potential in a postsynaptic neuron. Instead, ing the pool. This phenomenon is called divergence. Two large numbers of input terminals must discharge on the major types of divergence occur and have entirely differ- same neuron either simultaneously or in rapid succession ent purposes. 593 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Excitatory synapse A B Input fiber #1 Excitation #2 #3 Inhibition Inhibitory synapse Figure 47- 13 Inhibitory circuit. Neuron 2 is an inhibitory neuron. from a single source—that is, multiple terminals from a single incoming fiber tract terminate on the same neu- ron. The importance of this type of convergence is that Divergence in same tract Divergence into multiple tracts neurons are almost never excited by an action potential Figure 47- 11 “Divergence” in neuronal pathways. A, Divergence from a single input terminal. However, action potentials within a pathway to cause “amplification” of the signal. B, Diver-
