Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


action potential Figure 47- 11 “Divergence” in neuronal pathways. A, Divergence from a single input terminal. However, action potentials within a pathway to cause “amplification” of the signal. B, Diver- converging on the neuron from multiple terminals pro- gence into multiple tracts to transmit the signal to separate areas. vide enough spatial summation to bring the neuron to the threshold required for discharge. A B Convergence can also result from input signals (excit- Source Source #1 atory or inhibitory) from multiple sources, as shown in Figure 47- 12B. For example, the interneurons of the spinal cord receive converging signals from the follow- ing: (1) peripheral nerve fibers entering the cord; (2) pro- priospinal fibers passing from one segment of the cord to Source Source #2 #3 another; (3) corticospinal fibers from the cerebral cortex; and (4) several other long pathways descending from the brain into the spinal cord. Then, the signals from the interneurons converge on the anterior motor neurons to control muscle function. Convergence from a Convergence from single source multiple separate sources Such convergence allows summation of information from different sources, and the resulting response is a Figure 47- 12 Convergence of multiple input fibers onto a single neuron. A, Multiple input fibers from a single source. B, Input fibers summated effect of all the different types of information. from multiple separate sources. Convergence is one of the important means whereby the central nervous system correlates, summates, and sorts An amplifying type of divergence is shown in Figure different types of information. 47- 11A. Amplifying divergence means simply that an Neuronal Circuit With Both Excitatory input signal spreads to an increasing number of neurons and Inhibitory Output Signals as it passes through successive orders of neurons in its path. This type of divergence is characteristic of the cor- Sometimes an incoming signal to a neuronal pool ticospinal pathway in its control of skeletal muscles, with causes an output excitatory signal going in one direc- a single large pyramidal cell in the motor cortex capable, tion and, at the same time, an inhibitory signal going under highly facilitated conditions, of exciting as many as elsewhere. For example, at the same time that an excit- 10,000 muscle fibers. atory signal is transmitted by one set of neurons in the The second type of divergence, shown in Figure 47- spinal cord to cause forward movement of a leg, an 11B, is
