Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


is transmitted by one set of neurons in the The second type of divergence, shown in Figure 47- spinal cord to cause forward movement of a leg, an 11B, is divergence into multiple tracts. In this case, the inhibitory signal is transmitted through a separate set signal is transmitted in two directions from the pool. For of neurons to inhibit the muscles on the back of the leg example, information transmitted up the dorsal columns so that they will not oppose the forward movement. of the spinal cord takes two courses in the lower part of This type of circuit is characteristic for controlling all the brain: (1) into the cerebellum; and (2) on through antagonistic pairs of muscles; it is called the reciprocal the lower regions of the brain to the thalamus and cere- inhibition circuit. bral cortex. Likewise, in the thalamus, almost all sensory Figure 47-1 3 shows the means whereby the inhi- information is relayed into still deeper structures of the bition is achieved. The input fiber directly excites the thalamus and, at the same time, to discrete regions of the excitatory output pathway, but it stimulates an inter- cerebral cortex. mediate inhibitory neuron (neuron 2), which secretes a different type of transmitter substance to inhibit the Convergence of Signals second output pathway from the pool. This type of Convergence means signals from multiple inputs uniting to circuit is also important in preventing overactivity in excite a single neuron. Figure 47- 12A shows convergence many parts of the brain. 594 Chapter 47 Sensory Receptors, Neuronal Circuits for Processing Information PROLONGATION OF A SIGNAL BY A A NEURONAL POOL—AFTERDISCHARGE Input Output Thus far, we have considered signals that are merely relayed through neuronal pools. However, in many cases, B a signal entering a pool causes a prolonged output dis- Input Output charge, called afterdischarge, lasting a few milliseconds to as long as many minutes after the incoming signal is over. The most important mechanisms whereby afterdischarge occurs are described in the following sections. Facilitation Synaptic Afterdischarge. When excitatory synapses dis- C charge on the surfaces of dendrites or soma of a neuron, Input Output a postsynaptic electrical potential develops in the neuron and lasts for many milliseconds, especially when some of the long-a cting synaptic transmitter substances are involved. As long as this potential lasts, it can continue to excite the neuron, causing it to transmit a continuous
