Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


when some of the long-a cting synaptic transmitter substances are involved. As long as this potential lasts, it can continue to excite the neuron, causing it to transmit a continuous train of output impulses, as was explained in Chapter 46. Thus, as a result of this synaptic afterdischarge mecha- nism alone, it is possible for a single instantaneous input signal to cause a sustained signal output (a series of re- Inhibition petitive discharges) lasting for many milliseconds. D Reverberatory (Oscillatory) Circuit as a Cause of Input Output Signal Prolongation. One of the most important of all circuits in the entire nervous system is the reverberatory or oscillatory circuit. Such circuits are caused by positive feedback within the neuronal circuit that feeds back to re- excite the input of the same circuit. Consequently, once stimulated, the circuit may discharge repetitively for a long time. Several possible varieties of reverberatory circuits are shown in Figure 47- 14. The simplest, shown in Figure Figure 47- 14 A–D, Reverberatory circuits of increasing complexity. 47- 14A, involves only a single neuron. In this case, the output neuron sends a collateral nerve fiber back to its own dendrites or soma to restimulate itself. Although the importance of this type of circuit is not clear, theo- retically, once the neuron discharges, the feedback stimuli Facilitated could keep the neuron discharging for a protracted time thereafter. Figure 47- 14B shows a few additional neurons in the Normal feedback circuit, which causes a longer delay between initial discharge and the feedback signal. Figure 47- 14C Inhibited shows a more complex system in which both facilitatory and inhibitory fibers impinge on the reverberating circuit. Time A facilitatory signal enhances the intensity and frequency Figure 47- 15 Typical pattern of the output signal from a reverbera- of reverberation, whereas an inhibitory signal depresses tory circuit after a single input stimulus, showing the effects of facili- or stops the reverberation. tation and inhibition. Figure 47- 14D shows that most reverberating path- ways are constituted of many parallel fibers. At each cell only 1 millisecond or so, and yet the output can last for station, the terminal fibrils spread widely. In such a sys- many milliseconds or even minutes. The figure demon- tem, the total reverberating signal can be either weak or strates that the intensity of the output signal usually in- strong, depending on how many parallel nerve fibers are creases to
