Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the total reverberating signal can be either weak or strates that the intensity of the output signal usually in- strong, depending on how many parallel nerve fibers are creases to a high value early in reverberation and then momentarily involved in the reverberation. decreases to a critical point, at which it suddenly ceases Signal Prolongation Characteristics of a Reverbera- entirely. The cause of this sudden cessation of reverbera- tory Circuit. Figure 47- 15 shows output signals from a tion is fatigue of synaptic junctions in the circuit. Fatigue typical reverberatory circuit. The input stimulus may last beyond a certain critical level lowers the stimulation of 595 etar eslup tuptuO sulumits tupnI UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Output Excitation Inhibition Time Figure 47- 16 Continuous output from either a reverberating circuit Increasing carotid or a pool of intrinsically discharging neurons. This figure also shows body stimulation the effect of excitatory or inhibitory input signals. Figure 47- 17 The rhythmical output of summated nerve impulses from the respiratory center, showing that progressively increasing the next neuron in the circuit below threshold level so stimulation of the carotid body increases both the intensity and the that the circuit feedback is suddenly broken. frequency of the phrenic nerve signal to the diaphragm to increase The duration of the total signal before cessation can respiration. also be controlled by signals from other parts of the brain that inhibit or facilitate the circuit. These patterns of out- familiar with radio transmitters will recognize this to be a put signals are recorded from motor nerves exciting a carrier wave type of information transmission. That is, the muscle involved in a flexor reflex after pain stimulation of excitatory and inhibitory control signals are not the cause the foot (as shown later in Figure 47- 18). of the output signal, but they do control its changing level of intensity. Note that this carrier wave system allows a Continuous Signal Output From Some decrease in signal intensity, as well as an increase, whereas Neuronal Circuits up to this point, the types of information transmission we Some neuronal circuits emit output signals continuously, have discussed have been mainly positive information even without excitatory input signals. At least two mech- rather than negative information. This type of informa- anisms can cause this effect: (1) continuous intrinsic neu- tion transmission is used by the autonomic
