Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


input signals. At least two mech- rather than negative information. This type of informa- anisms can cause this effect: (1) continuous intrinsic neu- tion transmission is used by the autonomic nervous sys- ronal discharge; and (2) continuous reverberatory signals. tem to control such functions as vascular tone, gut tone, degree of constriction of the iris in the eye, and heart rate. Continuous Discharge Caused by Intrinsic Neuronal That is, the nerve excitatory signal to each of these areas Excitability. Neurons, like other excitable tissues, dis- can be either increased or decreased by accessory input charge repetitively if their level of excitatory membrane signals into the reverberating neuronal pathway. potential rises above a certain threshold level. The mem- brane potentials of many neurons, even normally, are high Rhythmical Signal Output enough to cause them to emit impulses continually. This Many neuronal circuits emit rhythmical output signals— phenomenon occurs especially in many of the neurons of for example, a rhythmical respiratory signal originates the cerebellum, as well as in most of the interneurons of in the respiratory centers of the medulla and pons. This the spinal cord. The rates at which these cells emit im- respiratory rhythmical signal continues throughout life. pulses can be increased by excitatory signals or decreased Other rhythmical signals, such as those that cause scratch- by inhibitory signals; inhibitory signals often can decrease ing movements by the hind leg of a dog or the walking the rate of firing to zero. movements of any animal, require input stimuli into the Continuous Signals Emitted From Reverberating Cir- respective circuits to initiate the rhythmical signals. cuits as a Means for Transmitting Information. A re- All or almost all rhythmical signals that have been verberating circuit that does not fatigue enough to stop studied experimentally have been found to result from reverberation is a source of continuous impulses. Further- reverberating circuits or a succession of sequential rever- more, excitatory impulses entering the reverberating pool berating circuits that feed excitatory or inhibitory signals can increase the output signal, whereas inhibition can de- in a circular pathway from one neuronal pool to the next. crease or even extinguish the signal. Excitatory or inhibitory signals can also increase or Figure 47- 16 shows a continuous output signal from decrease the amplitude of the rhythmical signal output. a pool of neurons. The pool may be emitting impulses Figure 47- 17, for example, shows changes in
