Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


continuous output signal from decrease the amplitude of the rhythmical signal output. a pool of neurons. The pool may be emitting impulses Figure 47- 17, for example, shows changes in the respira- because of intrinsic neuronal excitability or as a result of tory signal output in the phrenic nerve. When the carotid reverberation. Note that an excitatory input signal greatly body is stimulated by arterial oxygen deficiency, both the increases the output signal, whereas an inhibitory input frequency and the amplitude of the respiratory rhythmi- signal greatly decreases the output. Students who are cal output signal increase progressively. 596 dnoces rep seslupmI tuptuo evren cinerhP Chapter 47 Sensory Receptors, Neuronal Circuits for Processing Information INSTABILITY AND STABILITY OF NEURONAL CIRCUITS 50 Almost every part of the brain connects either directly or 40 Flexor reflexes–decremental responses indirectly with every other part, which creates a serious challenge. If the first part excites the second, the second 30 the third, the third the fourth, and so on until finally the 20 signal re-e xcites the first part, then an excitatory signal 10 entering any part of the brain would set off a continuous 0 cycle of re- excitation of all parts. If this cycle should occur, the brain would be inundated by a mass of uncontrolled Stimulus reverberating signals—signals that would be transmitting 0 15 30 45 60 no information but, nevertheless, would be consuming Seconds the circuits of the brain so that none of the informational Figure 47- 18 Successive flexor reflexes showing fatigue of conduc- signals could be transmitted. Such an effect occurs in tion through the reflex pathway. widespread areas of the brain during epileptic seizures. How does the central nervous system prevent this effect from happening all the time? The answer lies mainly in Thus, fatigue and recovery from fatigue constitute an im- two basic mechanisms that function throughout the cen- portant short- term means of moderating the sensitivities tral nervous system: (1) inhibitory circuits; and (2) fatigue of the different nervous system circuits. These functions of synapses. help keep the circuits operating in a range of sensitivity that allows effective function. INHIBITORY CIRCUITS AS A MECHANISM FOR STABILIZING NERVOUS SYSTEM Long- Term Changes in Synaptic Sensitivity Caused by FUNCTION Automatic Downregulation or Upregulation of Syn- aptic Receptors. The long- term sensitivities of synapses Two types of inhibitory circuits in widespread areas of can be changed tremendously by upregulating
