Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


FUNCTION Automatic Downregulation or Upregulation of Syn- aptic Receptors. The long- term sensitivities of synapses Two types of inhibitory circuits in widespread areas of can be changed tremendously by upregulating the num- the brain help prevent excessive spread of signals: (1) ber of receptor proteins at the synaptic sites when there inhibitory feedback circuits that return from the termini is underactivity and downregulating the receptors when of pathways back to the initial excitatory neurons of the there is overactivity. The mechanism for this process is as same pathways (these circuits occur in virtually all sen- follows. Receptor proteins are being formed constantly by sory nervous pathways and inhibit either the input neu- the endoplasmic reticular–Golgi apparatus system and are rons or the intermediate neurons in the sensory pathway constantly being inserted into the receptor neuron synap- when the termini become overly excited); and (2) some tic membrane. However, when the synapses are overused neuronal pools that exert gross inhibitory control over so that excesses of transmitter substance combine with widespread areas of the brain (e.g., many of the basal gan- the receptor proteins, many of these receptors are inacti- glia exert inhibitory influences throughout the muscle vated and removed from the synaptic membrane. control system). It is indeed fortunate that upregulation and downregu- SYNAPTIC FATIGUE AS A MEANS OF lation of receptors, as well as other control mechanisms STABILIZING THE NERVOUS SYSTEM for adjusting synaptic sensitivity, continually adjust the sensitivity in each circuit to almost the exact level required Synaptic fatigue means simply that synaptic transmis- for proper function. Consider for a moment how serious sion becomes progressively weaker the more prolonged it would be if the sensitivities of only a few of these cir- and more intense the period of excitation. Figure 47- 18 cuits were abnormally high; one might then expect almost shows three successive records of a flexor reflex elicited in continual muscle cramps, seizures, psychotic distur- an animal caused by inflicting pain in the footpad of the bances, hallucinations, mental tension, or other nervous paw. Note in each record that the strength of contraction disorders. Fortunately, the automatic controls normally progressively “decrements”—that is, its strength dimin- readjust the sensitivities of the circuits back to control- ishes. Much of this effect is caused by fatigue of synapses lable ranges of reactivity any time the circuits begin to be in the flexor reflex circuit. Furthermore, the shorter the
