Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Development of multisensory in- Pangrsic T, Singer JH, Koschak A: Voltage-g ated calcium channels: tegration from the perspective of the individual neuron. Nat Rev key players in sensory coding in the retina and the inner ear. Physiol Neurosci 15:520, 2014. Rev 98:2063, 2018. Proske U, Gandevia SC: Kinesthetic senses. Compr Physiol 8:1157, 2018. 598 CHAPTER 4 8 Somatic Sensations: I. General Organization, Tactile and Position Senses The somatic senses are the nervous mechanisms that collect they are all detected by the same types of receptors. There sensory information from all over the body. These senses are three principal differences among them: (1) touch sen- are in contradistinction to the special senses, which mean sation generally results from stimulation of tactile recep- specifically vision, hearing, smell, taste, and equilibrium. tors in the skin or in tissues immediately beneath the skin; (2) pressure sensation generally results from deformation CLASSIFICATION OF SOMATIC SENSES of deeper tissues; and (3) vibration sensation results from rapidly repetitive sensory signals; however, some of the The somatic senses can be classified into three physiologi- same types of receptors as those for touch and pressure cal types: (1) the mechanoreceptive somatic senses, which are used. include both tactile and position sensations that are stim- ulated by mechanical displacement of some tissue of the Tactile Receptors. There are at least six entirely different body; (2) the thermoreceptive senses, which detect heat types of tactile receptors, but many more similar to these and cold; and (3) the pain sense, which is activated by fac- also exist. Some were shown in Figure 47- 1 (previous tors that damage the tissues. chapter); their special characteristics are as follows. This chapter deals with the mechanoreceptive tactile First, some free nerve endings, which are found every- and position senses. In Chapter 49, the thermoreceptive where in the skin and in many other tissues, can detect and pain senses are discussed. The tactile senses include touch and pressure. For example, even light contact with touch, pressure, vibration, and tickle senses, and the position the cornea of the eye, which contains no other type of senses include static position and rate of movement senses. nerve ending besides free nerve endings, can nevertheless elicit touch and pressure sensations. Other Classifications of Somatic Sensations. Somatic Second, a touch receptor with great sensitivity is the sensations are also often grouped together in other class- Meissner’s corpuscle (illustrated in Figure 47-
