Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Other Classifications of Somatic Sensations. Somatic Second, a touch receptor with great sensitivity is the sensations are also often grouped together in other class- Meissner’s corpuscle (illustrated in Figure 47- 1 and Figure es, as follows: 48- 1), an elongated encapsulated nerve ending of a large Exteroreceptive sensations are those from the surface (type Aβ) myelinated sensory nerve fiber. Inside the capsu- of the body. Proprioceptive sensations are those relating lation are many branching terminal nerve filaments. These to the physical state of the body, including position sensa- corpuscles are present in the nonhairy parts of the skin tions, tendon and muscle sensations, pressure sensations and are particularly abundant in the fingertips, lips, and from the bottom of the feet, and even the sensation of other areas of the skin where a person’s ability to discern equilibrium, which is often considered a “special” sensa- spatial locations of touch sensations is highly developed. tion rather than a somatic sensation. Meissner corpuscles adapt in a fraction of a second after Visceral sensations are those from the viscera of the they are stimulated, which means that they are particularly body. When using this term, one usually refers specifically sensitive to movement of objects over the surface of the to sensations from the internal organs. skin, as well as to low-f requency vibration. Deep sensations are those that come from deep tissues, Third, the fingertips and other areas that contain large such as from fasciae, muscles, and bone. They include numbers of Meissner’s corpuscles usually also contain mainly “deep” pressure, pain, and vibration. large numbers of expanded tip tactile receptors, one type of which is Merkel’s discs, shown in Figure 48- 1. The DETECTION AND TRANSMISSION OF hairy parts of the skin also contain moderate numbers TACTILE SENSATIONS of expanded tip receptors, even though they have almost no Meissner’s corpuscles. These receptors differ from Interrelations Among the Tactile Sensations of Touch, Meissner’s corpuscles in that they transmit an initially Pressure, and Vibration. Although touch, pressure, and strong but partially adapting signal and then a continuing vibration are frequently classified as separate sensations, weaker signal that adapts only slowly. Therefore, they are 599 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology and its basal nerve fiber, called the hair end-o rgan (Fig- ure 48-1 ), are also touch receptors. A receptor adapts Free nerve endings readily and, like Meissner’s corpuscles,
