Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Physiology and its basal nerve fiber, called the hair end-o rgan (Fig- ure 48-1 ), are also touch receptors. A receptor adapts Free nerve endings readily and, like Meissner’s corpuscles, detects mainly the following: (1) movement of objects on the surface of Epidermis the body; or (2) initial contact with the body. Fifth, located in the deeper layers of the skin and also Dermis in still deeper internal tissues are many Ruffini’s endings, which are multibranched encapsulated endings, as shown in Figure 47- 1 and Figure 48- 1. These endings adapt Hair end-organ very slowly and, therefore, are important for signaling continuous states of deformation of the tissues, such as Peripheral nerve bundle heavy prolonged touch and pressure signals. They are also found in joint capsules and help to signal the degree of joint rotation. A Hairy skin Pacinian corpuscle Sixth, Pacinian corpuscles, which were discussed in detail in Chapter 47, lie both immediately beneath the Merkel’s discs skin and deep in the fascial tissues of the body. They are stimulated only by rapid local compression of the tis- Free nerve endings sues because they adapt in a few hundredths of a second. Therefore, they are particularly important for detecting tissue vibration or other rapid changes in the mechanical Meissner’s state of the tissues. corpuscle Transmission of Tactile Signals in Peripheral Nerve Fibers. Almost all specialized sensory receptors, such as Meissner’s corpuscles, Iggo dome receptors, hair recep- tors, Pacinian corpuscles, and Ruffini’s endings, transmit Peripheral their signals in type Aβ nerve fibers that have transmis- nerve bundle sion velocities ranging from 30 to 70 m/sec. Conversely, free nerve ending tactile receptors transmit signals mainly via the small type Aδ myelinated fibers that conduct at Ruffini Pacinian B Glabrous skin ending corpuscle velocities of only 5 to 30 m/sec. Some tactile free nerve endings transmit via type Figure 48- 1. Mechanoreceptors in the skin. Note the clusters of Merkel discs located in the basal epidermis and connecting to a single C unmyelinated fibers at velocities from a fraction of a large myelinated fiber. The Meissner cells also lie in the basal epider- meter up to 2 m/sec. These nerve endings send signals mis, bordering the edges of the papillary ridges, whereas the Pacinian into the spinal cord and lower brain stem, probably sub- corpuscles and Ruffini endings are found in the dermis; one myeli- serving mainly the sensation of tickle. nated
