Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the Pacinian into the spinal cord and lower brain stem, probably sub- corpuscles and Ruffini endings are found in the dermis; one myeli- serving mainly the sensation of tickle. nated fiber innervates each of these receptor organs. Thus, the more critical types of sensory signals—those that help to determine precise localization on the skin, responsible for giving out steady- state signals that allow minute gradations of intensity, or rapid changes in sen- one to determine continuous touch of objects against the sory signal intensity—are all transmitted in more rapidly skin. conducting types of sensory nerve fibers. Conversely, the Merkel discs are often grouped together in a receptor cruder types of signals, such as pressure, poorly localized organ called touch domes, which project upward against touch, and especially tickle, are transmitted via much the underside of the epithelium of the skin. This upward slower, very small nerve fibers that require much less projection causes the epithelium at this point to pro- space in the peripheral nerve bundle than the fast fibers. trude outward, thus creating a dome and constituting an extremely sensitive receptor. Also note in Figure 48- 1 that Detection of Vibration. All tactile receptors are involved the entire group of Merkel’s discs is innervated by a single in detection of vibration, although different receptors de- large myelinated nerve fiber (type Aβ). These receptors, tect different frequencies of vibration. Pacinian corpus- along with the Meissner’s corpuscles discussed earlier, cles can detect signal vibrations from 30 to 800 cycles/ play extremely important roles in localizing touch sensa- sec because they respond extremely rapidly to minute and tions to specific surface areas of the body and in determin- rapid deformations of the tissues. They also transmit their ing the texture of what is felt. signals over type Aβ nerve fibers, which can transmit as Fourth, slight movement of any hair on the body stim- many as 1000 impulses/sec. Low- frequency vibrations ulates a nerve fiber entwining its base. Thus, each hair from 2 up to 80 cycles/sec, in contrast, stimulate other 600 Chapter 48 Somatic Sensations: I. General Organization, Tactile and Position Senses tactile receptors, especially Meissner’s corpuscles, which Another difference between the two systems is that adapt less rapidly than do Pacinian corpuscles. the dorsal column–medial lemniscal system has a high degree of spatial orientation of the nerve fibers with Detection of Tickle and Itch by Mechanoreceptive respect to their origin,
