Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Pacinian corpuscles. the dorsal column–medial lemniscal system has a high degree of spatial orientation of the nerve fibers with Detection of Tickle and Itch by Mechanoreceptive respect to their origin, whereas the anterolateral sys- Free Nerve Endings. Neurophysiological studies have tem has much less spatial orientation. These differences demonstrated the existence of very sensitive, rapidly immediately characterize the types of sensory informa- adapting mechanoreceptive free nerve endings that elicit tion that can be transmitted by the two systems. That only the tickle and itch sensations. Furthermore, these is, sensory information that must be transmitted rapidly endings are found almost exclusively in superficial layers with temporal and spatial fidelity is transmitted mainly of the skin, which is also the only tissue from which the in the dorsal column–medial lemniscal system; that tickle and itch sensations usually can be elicited. These which does not need to be transmitted rapidly or with sensations are transmitted by very small type C, unmyeli- great spatial fidelity is transmitted mainly in the antero- nated fibers similar to those that transmit the aching slow lateral system. type of pain. The anterolateral system has a special capability that The purpose of the itch sensation is presumably to call the dorsal system does not have—the ability to transmit attention to mild surface stimuli such as a flea crawling a broad spectrum of sensory modalities, such as pain, on the skin or a fly about to bite; the signals elicited then warmth, cold, and crude tactile sensations. Most of these activate the scratch reflex or other maneuvers that rid the sensory modalities are discussed in detail in Chapter 49. host of the irritant. Itch can be relieved by scratching if The dorsal system is limited to discrete types of mechano- this action removes the irritant or if the scratch is strong receptive sensations. enough to elicit pain. The pain signals are believed to sup- With this differentiation in mind, we can now list the press the itch signals in the cord by lateral inhibition, as types of sensations transmitted in the two systems. described in Chapter 49. Dorsal Column–Medial Lemniscal System SENSORY PATHWAYS FOR 1. Touch sensations requiring a high degree of localization TRANSMITTING SOMATIC SIGNALS of the stimulus INTO THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM 2. Touch sensations requiring transmission of fine grada- tions of intensity Almost all sensory information from the somatic seg- 3. Phasic sensations, such as vibratory sensations
