Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM 2. Touch sensations requiring transmission of fine grada- tions of intensity Almost all sensory information from the somatic seg- 3. Phasic sensations, such as vibratory sensations ments of the body enters the spinal cord through the 4. Sensations that signal movement against the skin dorsal roots of the spinal nerves. However, from the 5. Position sensations from the joints entry point into the cord and then to the brain, the 6. Pressure sensations related to fine degrees of judgment sensory signals are carried through one of two alterna- of pressure intensity tive sensory pathways: (1) the dorsal column–medial Anterolateral System lemniscal system; or (2) the anterolateral system. These 1. Pain two systems come back together partially at the level of 2. Thermal sensations, including both warm and cold the thalamus. sensations The dorsal column–medial lemniscal system, as its 3. Crude touch and pressure sensations capable only of name implies, carries signals upward to the medulla of the crude localizing ability on the surface of the body brain mainly in the dorsal columns of the cord. Then, after 4. Tickle and itch sensations the signals synapse and cross to the opposite side in the 5. Sexual sensations medulla, they continue upward through the brain stem to the thalamus via the medial lemniscus. TRANSMISSION IN THE DORSAL Conversely, signals in the anterolateral system, imme- COLUMN–MEDIAL LEMNISCAL SYSTEM diately after entering the spinal cord from the dorsal spinal nerve roots, synapse in the dorsal horns of the spinal gray ANATOMY OF THE DORSAL COLUMN– matter and then cross to the opposite side of the cord and MEDIAL LEMNISCAL SYSTEM ascend through the anterior and lateral white columns of the cord. They terminate at all levels of the lower brain On entering the spinal cord through the spinal nerve dor- stem and in the thalamus. sal roots, the large myelinated fibers from the specialized The dorsal column–medial lemniscal system is com- mechanoreceptors divide almost immediately to form a posed of large myelinated nerve fibers that transmit sig- medial branch and a lateral branch, shown by the right- nals to the brain at velocities of 30 to 110 m/sec, whereas hand fiber entering through the spinal root in Figure 48- 2 the anterolateral system is composed of smaller myelin- (Video 48-1). The medial branch turns medially first and ated fibers that transmit signals at velocities ranging from then upward in the
