Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the anterolateral system is composed of smaller myelin- (Video 48-1). The medial branch turns medially first and ated fibers that transmit signals at velocities ranging from then upward in the dorsal column, proceeding via the dor- a few meters per second up to 40 m/sec. sal column pathway all the way to the brain. 601 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Spinal nerve Cortex Lamina marginalis Tract of Substantia gelatinosa Dorsal Lissauer column Spinocervical tract I II Dorsal III spinocerebellar IV tract V VI Internal capsule Thalamus VII Ventral IX VIII Ven ctr oo mba ps lea xl Midbrain spinocerebellar of thalamus tract Pons Anterolateral spinothalamic Medial lemniscus pathway Figure 48- 2. Cross section of the spinal cord, showing the anatomy of the cord gray matter and of ascending sensory tracts in the white columns of the spinal cord. Medulla oblongata The lateral branch enters the dorsal horn of the cord gray matter and then divides many times to provide ter- minals that synapse with local neurons in the intermedi- Lower medulla oblongata ate and anterior portions of the cord gray matter. These Dorsal column nuclei local neurons in turn serve three functions: 1. A major share of them give off fibers that enter the dorsal columns of the cord and then travel upward Ascending branches of dorsal root fibers to the brain. 2. Many of the fibers are very short and terminate lo- cally in the spinal cord gray matter to elicit local spinal cord reflexes, which are discussed in Chap- ter 55. 3. Others give rise to the spinocerebellar tracts, which Dorsal root we discuss in Chapter 57 in relation to the function and spinal of the cerebellum. ganglion Dorsal Column–Medial Lemniscal Pathway. Note in Figure 48- 3 that nerve fibers entering the dorsal columns pass uninterrupted up to the dorsal medulla, where they synapse in the dorsal column nuclei (the cuneate and gracile nuclei). From there, second- order neurons decussate imme- diately to the opposite side of the brain stem and continue upward through the medial lemnisci to the thalamus. In this pathway through the brain stem, each medial lemnis- cus is joined by additional fibers from the sensory nuclei of Figure 48- 3. Dorsal column–medial lemniscal pathway for transmit- the trigeminal nerve; these fibers subserve the same sensory ting critical types of tactile signals. functions for the head that
