Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of Figure 48- 3. Dorsal column–medial lemniscal pathway for transmit- the trigeminal nerve; these fibers subserve the same sensory ting critical types of tactile signals. functions for the head that the dorsal column fibers sub- serve for the body. In the thalamus, the medial lemniscal fibers terminate Spatial Orientation of the Nerve Fibers in the thalamic sensory relay area, called the ventrobasal in the Dorsal Column–Medial Lemniscal complex. From the ventrobasal complex, third- order nerve System fibers project, as shown in Figure 48- 4, mainly to the post- central gyrus of the cerebral cortex, called somatic sensory One of the distinguishing features of the dorsal column– area I (as shown in Figure 48- 6, these fibers also project to medial lemniscal system is a distinct spatial orientation a smaller area in the lateral parietal cortex called somatic of nerve fibers from the individual parts of the body that sensory area II). is maintained throughout. For example, in the dorsal 602 Chapter 48 Somatic Sensations: I. General Organization, Tactile and Position Senses Central fissure Postcentral gyrus Lower extremity Trunk 8 6 3 5 2 Upper 4 1 7A extremity 9 40 39 10 19 46 22 45 44 18 Face 11 47 41 42 37 17 38 21 Lateral fissure 20 Figure 48- 5. Structurally distinct areas, called Brodmann’s areas, of the human cerebral cortex. Note specifically areas 1, 2, and 3, which constitute primary somatosensory area I, and areas 5 and 7A, which Ventrobasal complex constitute the somatosensory association area. of thalamus the posterior half of the parietal lobe provides still higher Mesencephalon levels of interpretation. Visual signals terminate in the occipital lobe, and audi- tory signals terminate in the temporal lobe. Spinothalamic tract Conversely, the portion of the cerebral cortex anterior Medial lemniscus to the central fissure and constituting the posterior half of the frontal lobe is called the motor cortex; it is devoted Figure 48-4 . Projection of the dorsal column–medial lemniscal sys- almost entirely to control of muscle contractions and tem through the thalamus to the somatosensory cortex. body movements. A major share of this motor control is in response to somatosensory signals received from the columns of the spinal cord, the fibers from the lower parts sensory portions of the cortex, which keep the motor cor- of the body lie toward the center of the cord, whereas tex informed about the positions and motions of the
