Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


sensory portions of the cortex, which keep the motor cor- of the body lie toward the center of the cord, whereas tex informed about the positions and motions of the dif- those that enter the cord at progressively higher segmen- ferent body parts. at each instant tal levels form successive layers laterally. In the thalamus, distinct spatial orientation is still Somatosensory Areas I and II. Figure 48- 6 shows two maintained, with the tail end of the body represented by separate sensory areas in the anterior parietal lobe called the most lateral portions of the ventrobasal complex and somatosensory area I and somatosensory area II. The rea- the head and face represented by the medial areas of the son for this division into two areas is that a distinct and complex. Because of the crossing of the medial lemnisci in separate spatial orientation of the different parts of the the medulla, the left side of the body is represented in the body is found in each of these two areas. However, soma- right side of the thalamus, and the right side of the body is tosensory area I is so much more extensive and so much represented in the left side of the thalamus. more important than somatosensory area II that in popu- SOMATOSENSORY CORTEX lar usage, the term “somatosensory cortex” almost always means area I. Figure 48- 5 is a map of the human cerebral cortex, show- Somatosensory area I has a high degree of localiza- ing that it is divided into about 50 distinct areas called tion of the different parts of the body, as shown by the Brodmann’s areas based on histological structural differ- names of virtually all parts of the body in Figure 48- 6. ences. This map is important because virtually all neu- By contrast, localization is poor in somatosensory area II, rophysiologists and neurologists use it to refer to many although, roughly, the face is represented anteriorly, the of the different functional areas of the human cortex by arms centrally, and the legs posteriorly. number. Much less is known about the function of somato- Note in Figure 48- 5 the large central fissure (also sensory area II. It is known that signals enter this area called central sulcus) that extends horizontally across the from the brain stem, transmitted upward from both sides brain. In general, sensory signals from all modalities of of the body.
