Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


pe pe e t rp l th o ar og e t pe rr i s ov se te r ea rn u itt l nye it n o e s k s n etd m aaao b cln af h y tlda l o l l l l a r a , o t er r hf w e sg o e pae el l s e nroa . c uw pr Th te m iae va rd ees -t Upper lip peripheral area of the body. For example, a great num- ber of specialized nerve endings are found in the lips and Lips thumb, whereas only a few are present in the skin of the Lower lip body trunk. Teeth, gums, and jaw Note also that the nose, lips, mouth and face are rep- Tongue resented in the most lateral portion of somatosensory area I, and the head, neck, shoulders and lower part of the Pharynx Intra-abdominal body are represented medially. Layers of the Somatosensory Cortex and Their Function Figure 48- 7. Representation of the different areas of the body in The cerebral cortex contains six layers of neurons, begin- somatosensory area I of the cortex. (From Penfield W, Rasmussen T: ning with layer I next to the brain surface and extending Cerebral Cortex of Man: A Clinical Study of Localization of Function. progressively deeper to layer VI, shown in Figure 48- 8. New York: Hafner, 1968.) As would be expected, the neurons in each layer perform functions different from those in other layers. Some of of somatosensory area II has no apparent effect on the these functions are the following: response of neurons in somatosensory area I. Thus, much 1. The incoming sensory signal excites neuronal layer of what we know about somatic sensation appears to be IV first; the signal then spreads toward the surface explained by the functions of somatosensory area I. of the cortex and also toward deeper layers. 2. Layers I and II receive diffuse, nonspecific input sig- Spatial Orientation of Signals From Different Parts nals from lower brain centers that facilitate specific of the Body in Somatosensory Area I. Somatosensory regions of the cortex; this system is described in area I lies immediately behind the central fissure. It is lo- Chapter 58. This input mainly controls the overall lev- cated in the postcentral gyrus of the human cerebral cor- el of excitability
