Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


immediately behind the central fissure. It is lo- Chapter 58. This input mainly controls the overall lev- cated in the postcentral gyrus of the human cerebral cor- el of excitability of the respective regions stimulated. tex (in Brodmann’s areas 3, 1, and 2). 3. The neurons in layers II and III send axons to re- Figure 48- 7 shows a cross section through the brain lated portions of the cerebral cortex on the opposite at the level of the postcentral gyrus, demonstrating side of the brain through the corpus callosum. 604 Chapter 48 Somatic Sensations: I. General Organization, Tactile and Position Senses I function almost entirely separately from one another. At other levels of the columns, interactions occur that initi- ate analysis of the meanings of the sensory signals. In the most anterior 5 to 10 millimeters of the post- II central gyrus, located deep in the central fissure in Brod- mann’s area 3A, an especially large share of the vertical columns responds to muscle, tendon, and joint stretch III receptors. Many of the signals from these sensory col- umns then spread anteriorly, directly to the motor cor- tex located immediately forward of the central fissure. These signals play a major role in controlling the efflu- IV ent motor signals that activate sequences of muscle contraction. Moving posteriorly in somatosensory area I, more and V more of the vertical columns respond to slowly adapt- ing cutaneous receptors; still farther posteriorly, greater numbers of the columns are sensitive to deep pressure. In the most posterior portion of somatosensory area VIa I, about 6% of the vertical columns respond only when a stimulus moves across the skin in a particular direc- tion. Thus, this is a still higher order of interpretation VIb of sensory signals; the process becomes even more complex as the signals spread farther backward from somatosensory area I into the parietal cortex, an area called the somatosensory association area, as we discuss subsequently. Figure 48- 8. Structure of the cerebral cortex—I, molecular layer; II, external granular layer; III, layer of small pyramidal cells; IV, internal Functions of Somatosensory Area I granular layer; V, large pyramidal cell layer; and VIa and VIb, layers of fusiform or polymorphic cells. (From Ranson SW, Clark SL: Anatomy Widespread bilateral excision of somatosensory area I of the Nervous System. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1959.) causes loss of the following types of sensory judgment: 1. The
