Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


SW, Clark SL: Anatomy Widespread bilateral excision of somatosensory area I of the Nervous System. Philadelphia: WB Saunders, 1959.) causes loss of the following types of sensory judgment: 1. The person is unable to localize discretely the dif- 4. The neurons in layers V and VI send axons to the ferent sensations in the different parts of the body. deeper parts of the nervous system. Those in layer However, he or she can localize these sensations V are generally larger and project to more distant crudely, such as to a particular hand, to a major level areas, such as to the basal ganglia, brain stem, and of the body trunk, or to one of the legs. Thus, it is spinal cord, where they control signal transmission. clear that the brain stem, thalamus, or parts of the From layer VI, especially large numbers of axons cerebral cortex not normally considered to be con- extend to the thalamus, providing signals from the cerned with somatic sensations can perform some cerebral cortex that interact with and help to con- degree of localization. trol the excitatory levels of incoming sensory signals 2. The person is unable to judge critical degrees of entering the thalamus. pressure against the body. 3. The person is unable to judge the weights of ob- The Sensory Cortex Is Organized in jects. Vertical Columns of Neurons; Each 4. The person is unable to judge shapes or forms of Column Detects a Different Sensory Spot objects. This condition is called astereognosis. on the Body With a Specific Sensory 5. The person is unable to judge texture of materials Modality because this type of judgment depends on highly Functionally, the neurons of the somatosensory cortex are critical sensations caused by movement of the fin- arranged in vertical columns extending all the way through gers over the surface to be judged. the six layers of the cortex, with each column having a Note that in this list nothing has been said about loss diameter of 0.3 to 0.5 millimeter and containing perhaps of pain and temperature sense. In the specific absence of 10,000 neuronal cell bodies. Each of these columns serves only somatosensory area I, appreciation of these sensory a single specific sensory modality; some columns respond modalities is still preserved both in quality and intensity. to stretch receptors around joints, some to stimulation of However, the sensations are poorly localized, indicating tactile
