Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


modality; some columns respond modalities is still preserved both in quality and intensity. to stretch receptors around joints, some to stimulation of However, the sensations are poorly localized, indicating tactile hairs, others to discrete localized pressure points that pain and temperature localization depend greatly on on the skin, and so forth. At layer IV, where the input sen- the topographic map of the body in somatosensory area I sory signals first enter the cortex, the columns of neurons to localize the source. 605 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology SOMATOSENSORY ASSOCIATION AREAS Strong stimulus Brodmann’s areas 5 and 7 of the cerebral cortex, located in the parietal cortex behind somatosensory area I (see Figure 48- 5), play important roles in deciphering deeper meanings of the sensory information in the somatosen- Moderate stimulus sory areas. Therefore, these areas are called somatosen- sory association areas. Electrical stimulation in a somatosensory association area can occasionally cause an awake person to experi- Weak ence a complex body sensation, sometimes even the “feel- stimulus ing” of an object such as a knife or a ball. Therefore, it seems clear that the somatosensory association area combines information arriving from multiple points in the primary somatosensory area to decipher its meaning. Cortex This occurrence also fits with the anatomical arrangement of the neuronal tracts that enter the somatosensory asso- ciation area because it receives signals from the following: (1) somatosensory area I; (2) the ventrobasal nuclei of the thalamus; (3) other areas of the thalamus; (4) the visual Thalamus cortex; and (5) the auditory cortex. Amorphosynthesis Effect of Removing the Soma- tosensory Association Area. When the somatosensory association area is removed on one side of the brain, the Dorsal column nuclei person loses the ability to recognize complex objects and complex forms felt on the opposite side of the body. In addition, the person loses most of the sense of form of his or her own body or body parts on the opposite side. Single-point stimulus on skin In fact, the person is mainly oblivious to the opposite side Figure 48-9 . Transmission of a pinpoint stimulus signal to the cer- of the body—that is, forgets that it is there. Therefore, the ebral cortex. person also often forgets to use the other side for motor functions as well. Likewise, when feeling objects, the per- same time, and the person determines
