Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Therefore, the ebral cortex. person also often forgets to use the other side for motor functions as well. Likewise, when feeling objects, the per- same time, and the person determines whether one point son tends to recognize only one side of the object and for- or two points of stimulus is (are) felt. On the tips of the gets that the other side even exists. This complex sensory fingers, a person can normally distinguish two separate deficit is called amorphosynthesis. points, even when the needles are as close together as 1 to 2 millimeters. However, on someone’s back, the needles CHARACTERISTICS OF DORSAL usually must be as far apart as 30 to 70 millimeters before COLUMN–MEDIAL LEMNISCAL SIGNAL two separate points can be detected. The reason for this TRANSMISSION AND ANALYSIS difference is the different numbers of specialized tactile receptors in the two areas. Basic Neuronal Circuit in the Dorsal Column–Medial Lemniscal System. The lower part of Figure 48- 9 shows Figure 48- 10 shows the mechanism whereby the dor- sal column pathway (as well as all other sensory path- the basic organization of the neuronal circuit of the spinal ways) transmits two- point discriminatory information. cord dorsal column pathway, demonstrating that at each This figure shows two adjacent points on the skin that are synaptic stage, divergence occurs. The upper curves of the strongly stimulated, as well as the areas of the somatosen- figure show that the cortical neurons that discharge to the sory cortex (greatly enlarged) that are excited by signals greatest extent are those in a central part of the cortical from the two stimulated points. The blue curve shows “field” for each respective receptor. Thus, a weak stimulus the spatial pattern of cortical excitation when both skin causes only the most central neurons to fire. A stronger points are stimulated simultaneously. Note that the resul- stimulus causes still more neurons to fire, but those in the tant zone of excitation has two separate peaks. These two center discharge at a considerably more rapid rate than do peaks, separated by a valley, allow the sensory cortex to those farther away from the center. detect the presence of two stimulatory points, rather than Two- Point Discrimination. A method frequently used a single point. The capability of the sensorium to distin- to test tactile discrimination is to determine a person’s guish this presence of two points of stimulation is
