Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


frequently used a single point. The capability of the sensorium to distin- to test tactile discrimination is to determine a person’s guish this presence of two points of stimulation is strongly so- called “two- point” discriminatory ability. In this test, influenced by another mechanism, lateral inhibition, as two needles are pressed lightly against the skin at the explained in the next section. 606 dnoces rep segrahcsiD Chapter 48 Somatic Sensations: I. General Organization, Tactile and Position Senses Vibratory Sensation. Vibratory signals are rapidly re- petitive and can be detected as vibration up to 700 cycles/ sec. The higher frequency vibratory signals originate from the Pacinian corpuscles in the skin and deeper tissues, but lower frequency signals (< ≈200 cycles/sec) can also originate from Meissner’s corpuscles. These signals are transmitted only in the dorsal column pathway. For this reason, application of vibration (e.g., from a “tuning fork”) to different peripheral parts of the body is an important tool used by neurologists for testing functional integrity of the dorsal columns. Cortex Interpretation of Sensory Stimulus Intensity The ultimate goal of most sensory stimulation is to apprise the mind of the state of the body and its surroundings. Therefore, it is important that we discuss briefly some of the principles related to transmission of sensory stimulus Two adjacent points intensity to the higher levels of the nervous system. strongly stimulated How is it possible for the sensory system to transmit Figure 48- 10. Transmission of signals to the cortex from two adja- sensory experiences of tremendously varying intensities? cent pinpoint stimuli. The blue curve represents the pattern of cortical For example, the auditory system can detect the weakest stimulation without “surround” inhibition, and the two red curves possible whisper but can also discern the meanings of an represent the pattern when “surround” inhibition does occur. explosive sound, even though the sound intensities of these two experiences can vary by more than 10 billion times; the Effect of Lateral Inhibition to Increase the Degree of eyes can see visual images with light intensities that vary as Contrast in the Perceived Spatial Pattern. As noted in much as a half- million times, and the skin can detect pres- sure differences of 10,000 to 100,000 times. Chapter 47, virtually every sensory pathway, when excit- As a partial explanation of these effects, Figure 47- 4 in ed, gives rise simultaneously to lateral inhibitory signals; the previous chapter
