Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Chapter 47, virtually every sensory pathway, when excit- As a partial explanation of these effects, Figure 47- 4 in ed, gives rise simultaneously to lateral inhibitory signals; the previous chapter shows the relation of the receptor po- these inhibitory signals spread to the sides of the excitato- tential produced by the Pacinian corpuscle to the intensity ry signal and inhibit adjacent neurons. For example, con- of the sensory stimulus. At low stimulus intensity, slight sider an excited neuron in a dorsal column nucleus. Aside changes in intensity increase the potential markedly, where- from the central excitatory signal, short lateral pathways as at high levels of stimulus intensity, further increases in transmit inhibitory signals to the surrounding neurons— receptor potential are slight. Thus, the Pacinian corpuscle is that is, these signals pass through additional interneurons capable of accurately measuring extremely minute changes that secrete an inhibitory transmitter. in stimulus at low-i ntensity levels but, at high-i ntensity lev- els, the change in stimulus must be much greater to cause The importance of lateral inhibition, also called sur- the same amount of change in receptor p otential. round inhibition, is that it blocks lateral spread of the excit- The transduction mechanism for detecting sound by atory signals and, therefore, increases the degree of contrast the cochlea of the ear demonstrates still another method in the sensory pattern perceived in the cerebral cortex. for separating gradations of stimulus intensity. When sound In the case of the dorsal column system, lateral inhibi- stimulates a specific point on the basilar membrane, weak tory signals occur at each synaptic level—for example, in sound stimulates only those hair cells at the point of maxi- the following: (1) the dorsal column nuclei of the medulla; mum sound vibration. However, as the sound intensity in- (2) the ventrobasal nuclei of the thalamus; and (3) the creases, many more hair cells in each direction farther away cortex itself. At each of these levels, the lateral inhibi- from the maximum vibratory point also become stimulat- tion helps to block lateral spread of the excitatory signal. ed. Thus, signals are transmitted over progressively increas- As a result, the peaks of excitation stand out, and much ing numbers of nerve fibers, which is another mechanism whereby stimulus intensity is transmitted to the central of the surrounding diffuse stimulation is blocked. This nervous system. This mechanism, plus the direct effect of effect is demonstrated
