Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


another mechanism whereby stimulus intensity is transmitted to the central of the surrounding diffuse stimulation is blocked. This nervous system. This mechanism, plus the direct effect of effect is demonstrated by the two red curves in Figure stimulus intensity on impulse rate in each nerve fiber, as 48-1 0, showing complete separation of the peaks when well as several other mechanisms, make it possible for some the intensity of lateral inhibition is great. sensory systems to operate reasonably faithfully at stimulus intensity levels changing as much as millions of times. Transmission of Rapidly Changing and Repetitive Importance of the Tremendous Intensity Range of Sen- Sensations. The dorsal column system is also of par- sory Reception. Were it not for the tremendous intensity ticular importance in apprising the sensorium of rapidly range of sensory reception that people can experience, the changing peripheral conditions. Based on recorded action various sensory systems would often be operating in the potentials, this system can recognize changing stimuli wrong range. This principle is demonstrated by the at- that occur in as little as 1⁄400 of a second. tempts of most people, when taking photographs with a 607 dnoces rep segrahcsiD UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology camera, to adjust the light exposure without using a light 500 meter. Left to intuitive judgment of light intensity, a per- son almost always overexposes the film on bright days and 200 greatly underexposes the film at twilight. Yet, that person’s own eyes are capable of discriminating visual objects in 100 bright sunlight or at twilight with great detail; the camera cannot perform this discrimination without very special 50 manipulation because of the narrow critical range of light intensity required for proper exposure of film. 20 Judgment of Stimulus Intensity Weber- Fechner Principle—Detection of “Ratio” of Stim- 10 ulus Strength. In the mid- 1800s, Weber first, and Fechner later, proposed the principle that gradations of stimulus 0 strength are discriminated approximately in proportion to 0 10 100 1000 10,000 the logarithm of stimulus strength. That is, a person already Stimulus strength (arbitrary units) holding 30 grams weight in the hand can barely detect an Figure 48- 11. Graphic demonstration of the “power law” relation- additional 1-g ram increase in weight and, when already ship between actual stimulus strength and strength that the mind holding 300 grams, can barely detect a 10-g ram increase
