Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


relation- additional 1-g ram increase in weight and, when already ship between actual stimulus strength and strength that the mind holding 300 grams, can barely detect a 10-g ram increase in interprets it to be. Note that the power law does not hold at either weight. Thus, in this case, the ratio of the change in stimu- very weak or very strong stimulus strengths. lus strength required for detection remains essentially con- of change. Therefore, multiple different types of recep- stant, about 1 to 30, which is what the logarithmic principle tors help to determine joint angulation and are used to- means. To express this principle mathematically, gether for position sense. Both skin tactile receptors and Interpretedsignalstrength=Log(Stimulus)+Constant deep receptors near the joints are used. In the case of the fingers, where skin receptors are in great abundance, as More recently, it has become evident that the Weber- much as half of position recognition is believed to be de- Fechner principle is quantitatively accurate only for high- tected through the skin receptors. Conversely, for most er intensities of visual, auditory, and cutaneous sensory of the larger joints of the body, deep receptors are more experiences and applies only poorly to most other types important. of sensory experiences. Yet, the Weber- Fechner principle For determining joint angulation in midranges of is still helpful to remember because it emphasizes that the greater the background sensory intensity, the greater an motion, the muscle spindles are among the most impor- additional change must be for the psyche to detect the tant receptors. They are also exceedingly important in change. helping to control muscle movement, as discussed in Power Law. Another attempt by physiopsychologists to Chapter 55. When the angle of a joint is changing, some find a good mathematical relation is the following formula, muscles are being stretched while others are loosened, known as the power law: and the net stretch information from the spindles is trans- Interpretedsignalstrength =K×(Stimulus‐k)y mitted into the computational system of the spinal cord and higher regions of the dorsal column system for deci- In this formula, the exponent y and the constants K and k phering joint angulations. are different for each type of sensation. At the extremes of joint angulation, stretch of the liga- When this power law relation is plotted on a graph using ments and deep tissues around the joints is an additional double logarithmic coordinates, as
