Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


angulation, stretch of the liga- When this power law relation is plotted on a graph using ments and deep tissues around the joints is an additional double logarithmic coordinates, as shown in Figure 48- 11, important factor in determining position. Types of sen- and when appropriate quantitative values for y, K, and k are sory endings used for this are the Pacinian corpuscles, found, a linear relation can be attained between interpreted Ruffini’s endings, and receptors similar to the Golgi ten- stimulus strength and actual stimulus strength over a large don receptors found in muscle tendons. range for almost any type of sensory perception. The Pacinian corpuscles and muscle spindles are espe- cially adapted for detecting rapid rates of change. It is POSITION SENSES likely that these are the receptors most responsible for The position senses are frequently also called propriocep- detecting rate of movement. tive senses. They can be divided into two subtypes: (1) Processing of Position Sense Information in the D orsal static position sense, which means conscious perception of the orientation of the different parts of the body with Column–Medial Lemniscal Pathway. Referring to respect to one another; and (2) rate of movement sense, Figure 48- 12, one sees that thalamic neurons responding also called kinesthesia or dynamic proprioception. to joint rotation are of two categories: (1) those maximally stimulated when the joint is at full rotation; and (2) those Position Sensory Receptors. Knowledge of position, maximally stimulated when the joint is at minimal rota- both static and dynamic, depends on knowing the de- tion. Thus, the signals from the individual joint r eceptors grees of angulation of all joints in all planes and their rates are used to tell the psyche how much each joint is rotated. 608 htgnerts sulumits deterpretnI )stinu yrartibra( Chapter 48 Somatic Sensations: I. General Organization, Tactile and Position Senses 100 Cortex 80 60 #1 #4 #2 #5 40 #3 20 Internal capsule Thalamus 0 Ventrobasal Mesencephalon 0 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 and intralaminar nuclei of the Degrees thalamus Figure 48-1 2. Typical responses of five different thalamic neurons (1– 5) in the thalamic ventrobasal complex when the knee joint is moved Spinomesencephalic through its range of motion. (Data from Mountcastle VB, Poggie GF, tract Werner G: The relation of thalamic cell response to peripheral stimuli Pons varied over an intensive continuum. J Neurophysiol 26:807, 1963.) TRANSMISSION OF SENSORY
