Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


from Mountcastle VB, Poggie GF, tract Werner G: The relation of thalamic cell response to peripheral stimuli Pons varied over an intensive continuum. J Neurophysiol 26:807, 1963.) TRANSMISSION OF SENSORY SIGNALS Lateral division of IN THE ANTEROLATERAL PATHWAY Medulla oblongata the anterolateral pathway The anterolateral pathway for transmitting sensory sig- nals up the spinal cord and into the brain, in contrast to Spinoreticular tract the dorsal column pathway, transmits sensory signals that do not require highly discrete localization of the signal source and do not require discrimination of fine grada- Lower medulla oblongata tions of intensity. These types of signals include pain, heat, cold, crude tactile, tickle, itch, and sexual sensations (Video 48-2). In Chapter 49, pain and temperature sensa- Dorsal root tions are discussed specifically. and spinal ganglion Anatomy of the Anterolateral Pathway The spinal cord anterolateral fibers originate mainly in dor- sal horn laminae I, IV, V, and VI (see Figure 48- 2). These laminae are where many of the dorsal root sensory nerve fibers terminate after entering the cord. As shown in Figure 48- 13, the anterolateral fibers cross immediately in the anterior commissure of the cord to the opposite anterior and lateral white columns, where they turn upward toward the brain via the anterior spinotha- lamic and lateral spinothalamic tracts. The upper terminus of the two spinothalamic tracts is mainly twofold: (1) throughout the reticular nuclei of the brain stem; and (2) in two different nuclear complexes of the thalamus, the ventrobasal complex and the intralaminar nu- clei. In general, the tactile signals are transmitted mainly into the ventrobasal complex, terminating in some of the same Figure 48- 13. Anterior and lateral divisions of the anterolateral sen- thalamic nuclei where the dorsal column tactile signals termi- sory pathway. nate. From here, the signals are transmitted to the somatosen- sory cortex, along with the signals from the dorsal columns. CHARACTERISTICS OF TRANSMISSION IN Conversely, only a small fraction of the pain signals pro- THE ANTEROLATERAL PATHWAY ject directly to the ventrobasal complex of the thalamus. Instead, most pain signals terminate in the reticular nuclei In general, the same principles apply to transmission in of the brain stem and from there are relayed to the intrala- the anterolateral pathway as in the dorsal column–medial minar nuclei of the thalamus where the pain signals are fur- ther processed, as discussed in greater detail in Chapter 49. lemniscal system, except
