Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the brain are believed to play dominant roles in discrimination of these sensibilities. It is interesting that L5 S1 L5 S1 these sensibilities appeared very early in the phylogenetic development of animals, whereas the critical tactile sensibil- L4 ities and the somatosensory cortex were late developments. Figure 48- 14. Dermatomes. (Modified from Grinker RR, Sahs AL: Cortical Control of Sensory Sensitivity— Neurology, 6th ed. Springfield, IL, 1966. Courtesy of Charles C Thom- “Corticofugal” Signals as Publisher, Ltd., Springfield, Illinois.) In addition to somatosensory signals transmitted from the pe- Segmental Fields of Sensation—Dermatomes riphery to the brain, corticofugal signals are transmitted in the backward direction from the cerebral cortex to the lower sen- Each spinal nerve innervates a “segmental field” of the skin sory relay stations of the thalamus, medulla, and spinal cord. called a dermatome. The different dermatomes are shown They control the intensity of sensitivity of the sensory input. in Figure 48- 14. They are shown in the figure as if there Corticofugal signals are almost entirely inhibitory, so were distinct borders between the adjacent dermatomes, when sensory input intensity becomes too great, the corti- which is far from true because much overlap exists from cofugal signals automatically decrease transmission in the segment to segment. relay nuclei. This action does two things: First, it decreases Figure 48- 14 shows that the anal region of the body lies lateral spread of the sensory signals into adjacent neurons in the dermatome of the most distal cord segment, dermat- and, therefore, increases the degree of sharpness in the sig- ome S5. In the embryo, this is the tail region and the most nal pattern. Second, it keeps the sensory system operating distal portion of the body. The legs originate embryologi- in a range of sensitivity that is not so low that the signals are cally from the lumbar and upper sacral segments (L2 to S3), ineffectual nor so high that the system is swamped beyond rather than from the distal sacral segments, which is evi- its capacity to differentiate sensory patterns. This principle dent from the dermatomal map. One can use a dermatomal of corticofugal sensory control is used by all sensory sys- map as shown in Figure 48- 14 to determine the level in the tems, not only the somatic system, as explained in subse- spinal cord at which a cord injury has occurred when the quent chapters. peripheral sensations
