Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


different qualities of pain. For these reasons, the first part of this chapter is Pain Receptors Are Free Nerve Endings. The pain re- devoted mainly to pain and to the physiological bases of ceptors in the skin and other tissues are all free nerve some associated clinical phenomena. endings. They are widespread in the superficial layers of Pain occurs whenever tissues are being damaged and the skin, as well as in certain internal tissues, such as the causes the individual to react to remove the pain stimu- periosteum, the arterial walls, the joint surfaces, and the lus. Even such simple activities as sitting for a long time falx and tentorium in the cranial vault. Most other deep can cause tissue damage because of lack of blood flow to tissues are only sparsely supplied with pain endings; nev- the skin where it is compressed by the weight of the body. ertheless, any widespread tissue damage can summate to When the skin becomes painful as a result of the ischemia, cause the slow, chronic, aching type of pain in most of the person normally shifts weight subconsciously. However, these areas. a person who has lost the pain sense—for example, after a spinal cord injury—fails to feel the pain and, therefore, fails Mechanical, Thermal, and Chemical Stimuli Excite to shift. This situation soon results in total breakdown and Pain Receptors. Pain can be elicited by multiple types desquamation of the skin at the areas of pressure. of stimuli, classified as mechanical, thermal, and chemical pain stimuli. In general, fast pain is elicited by the me- FAST PAIN AND SLOW PAIN AND THEIR chanical and thermal types of stimuli, whereas slow pain QUALITIES can be elicited by all three types. Some of the chemicals that excite the chemical type of Pain has been classified into two major types, fast pain pain are bradykinin, serotonin, histamine, potassium ions, and slow pain. Fast pain is felt within about 0.1 second acids, acetylcholine, and proteolytic enzymes. In addition, after a pain stimulus is applied, whereas slow pain begins prostaglandins and substance P enhance the sensitivity of only after 1 second or more and then increases slowly pain endings but do not directly excite them. The chemi- over many seconds and sometimes even minutes. In this cal substances are especially important in stimulating the chapter, we shall see that the conduction pathways for slow suffering type of pain
