Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


many seconds and sometimes even minutes. In this cal substances are especially important in stimulating the chapter, we shall see that the conduction pathways for slow suffering type of pain that occurs after tissue injury. these two types of pain are different and that each of them Nonadapting Nature of Pain Receptors. In contrast to has specific qualities. most other sensory receptors of the body, pain receptors Fast pain is also described by many alternative names, adapt very little and sometimes not at all. In fact, under such as sharp pain, pricking pain, acute pain, and electric some conditions, excitation of pain fibers becomes pro- pain. This type of pain is felt when a needle is stuck into gressively greater, especially for slow, aching, nauseous the skin, when the skin is cut with a knife, or when the pain, as the pain stimulus continues. This increase in sen- skin is burned acutely. It is also felt when the skin is sub- sitivity of the pain receptors is called hyperalgesia. One jected to electric shock. Fast- sharp pain is not felt in most can readily understand the importance of this failure of deep tissues of the body. pain receptors to adapt because it allows the pain to keep Slow pain also goes by many names, such as slow burn- the person apprised of a tissue-d amaging stimulus as long ing pain, aching pain, throbbing pain, nauseous pain, as it persists. and chronic pain. This type of pain is usually associated with tissue destruction. It can lead to prolonged, almost Rate of Tissue Damage as a Stimulus for Pain. The unbearable suffering. Slow pain can occur both in the skin average person begins to perceive pain when the skin is and in almost any deep tissue or organ. heated above 45°C, as shown in Figure 49- 1. This is also 613 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology One of the suggested causes of pain during ischemia is accumulation of large amounts of lactic acid in the tis- sues, formed as a consequence of anaerobic metabolism (i.e., metabolism without oxygen). It is also probable that other chemical agents, such as bradykinin and proteolytic enzymes, are formed in the tissues because of cell damage and that these agents, in addition to lactic acid, stimulate the pain nerve endings. Muscle Spasm as a Cause of Pain. Muscle spasm
