Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


in the tissues because of cell damage and that these agents, in addition to lactic acid, stimulate the pain nerve endings. Muscle Spasm as a Cause of Pain. Muscle spasm is also a common cause of pain and is the basis of many clinical pain syndromes. This pain probably results partially from the direct effect of muscle spasm in stimulating mecha- nosensitive pain receptors, but it might also result from the indirect effect of muscle spasm to compress the blood 43 44 45 46 47 vessels and cause ischemia. The spasm also increases the Temperature ((cid:31)C) rate of metabolism in the muscle tissue, thus making the relative ischemia even greater, creating ideal conditions Figure 49- 1. Distribution curve obtained from a large number of persons showing the minimal skin temperature that will cause pain. for the release of chemical pain- inducing substances. (Modified from Hardy JD: Nature of pain. J Clin Epidemiol 4:22, 1956.) DUAL PATHWAYS FOR TRANSMISSION the temperature at which the tissues begin to be damaged OF PAIN SIGNALS INTO THE CENTRAL by heat; indeed, the tissues are eventually destroyed if the NERVOUS SYSTEM temperature remains above this level indefinitely. There- fore, it is immediately apparent that pain resulting from Even though all pain receptors are free nerve endings, heat is closely correlated with the rate at which damage to these endings use two separate pathways for transmit- the tissues is occurring and not with the total damage that ting pain signals into the central nervous system. The has already occurred. two pathways mainly correspond to the two types of The intensity of pain is also closely correlated with the pain—a fast- sharp pain pathway and a slow-c hronic pain rate of tissue damage from causes other than heat, such as pathway. bacterial infection, tissue ischemia, tissue contusion, and PERIPHERAL PAIN FIBERS—“FAST” AND so forth. “SLOW” FIBERS Special Importance of Chemical Pain Stimuli Dur- The fast- sharp pain signals are elicited by either mechani- ing Tissue Damage. Extracts from damaged tissue cal or thermal pain stimuli. They are transmitted in the cause intense pain when injected beneath the normal peripheral nerves to the spinal cord by small type Aδ skin. Most of the chemicals listed earlier that excite fibers at velocities between 6 and 30 m/sec. Conversely, the chemical pain receptors can be found in these ex- the slow- chronic type of pain is elicited mostly by chemi-
