Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fibers at velocities between 6 and 30 m/sec. Conversely, the chemical pain receptors can be found in these ex- the slow- chronic type of pain is elicited mostly by chemi- tracts. One chemical that seems to be more painful cal types of pain stimuli but sometimes by persisting than others is bradykinin. Researchers have suggested mechanical or thermal stimuli. This slow-c hronic pain is that bradykinin might be the agent most responsible transmitted to the spinal cord by type C fibers at velocities for causing pain after tissue damage. Also, the inten- between 0.5 and 2 m/sec. sity of the pain felt correlates with the local increase Because of this double system of pain innervation, a in potassium ion concentration or the increase in pro- sudden painful stimulus often gives a “double” pain sensa- teolytic enzymes that directly attack the nerve endings tion: a fast- sharp pain that is transmitted to the brain by and excite pain by making the nerve membranes more the Aδ fiber pathway, followed a second or so later by a permeable to ions. slow pain that is transmitted by the C fiber pathway. The Tissue Ischemia as a Cause of Pain. When blood flow to sharp pain plays an important role in making the person a tissue is blocked, the tissue often becomes very painful react immediately to remove himself or herself from the within a few minutes. The greater the rate of metabolism stimulus. The slow pain tends to become greater over of the tissue, the more rapidly the pain appears. For ex- time, eventually producing intolerable pain and making ample, if a blood pressure cuff is placed around the upper the person keep trying to relieve the cause of the pain. arm and inflated until the arterial blood flow ceases, exer- On entering the spinal cord from the dorsal spi- cise of the forearm muscles sometimes can cause muscle nal roots, the pain fibers terminate on relay neurons in pain within 15 to 20 seconds. In the absence of muscle the dorsal horns. Here again, there are two systems for exercise, the pain may not appear for 3 to 4 minutes, even processing the pain signals on their way to the brain, as though the muscle blood flow remains zero. shown in Figures 49- 2 and 49- 3. 614 stcejbus fo rebmuN CHAPTER 49 Somatic Sensations: II. Pain, Headache, and Thermal Sensations CAd
