Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


though the muscle blood flow remains zero. shown in Figures 49- 2 and 49- 3. 614 stcejbus fo rebmuN CHAPTER 49 Somatic Sensations: II. Pain, Headache, and Thermal Sensations CAd Slow-chronic I (lamina marginalis) of the dorsal horns, as shown in Spinal pain fibers Fast-sharp Figure 49- 2, and there they excite second-o rder neurons nerve pain fibers of the neospinothalamic tract. These second-o rder neu- rons give rise to long fibers that cross immediately to the Tract of I opposite side of the cord through the anterior commis- Lissauer II IIIIV sure and then turn upward, passing to the brain in the V anterolateral columns. VI Termination of the Neospinothalamic Tract in the VII Brain Stem and Thalamus. A few fibers of the neospi- VIII IX nothalamic tract terminate in the reticular areas of the Lamina brain stem, but most pass all the way to the thalamus marginalis without interruption, terminating in the ventrobasal com- Substantia Anterolateral plex along with the dorsal column–medial lemniscal tract gelatinosa pathway for tactile sensations, as was discussed in Chapter 48. A Figure 49- 2. Transmission of both fast-s harp and slow- chronic pain few fibers also terminate in the posterior nuclear group of signals into and through the spinal cord on their way to the brain. the thalamus. From these thalamic areas, the signals are Aδ fibers transmit fast- sharp pain, and C fibers transmit slow- chronic transmitted to other basal areas of the brain, as well as to pain. the somatosensory cortex. The Nervous System Can Localize Fast Pain in the To somatosensory areas Body. The fast- sharp type of pain can be localized much more exactly in the different parts of the body than can slow- chronic pain. However, when only pain Thalamus receptors are stimulated, without the simultaneous stimulation of tactile receptors, even fast pain may be poorly localized, often only within 10 centimeters or Ventrobasal complex and Intralaminar so of the stimulated area. Yet, when tactile receptors posterior nuclei that excite the dorsal column–medial lemniscal system nuclear are simultaneously stimulated, the localization can be group Slow pain nearly exact. Fast pain fibers fibers Glutamate, the Probable Neurotransmitter of the Reticular Type Aδ Fast Pain Fibers. It is believed that glutamate formation is the neurotransmitter substance secreted in the spinal cord at the type Aδ pain nerve fiber endings. Glutamate is one of the most widely used excitatory transmitters in
