Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


glutamate formation is the neurotransmitter substance secreted in the spinal cord at the type Aδ pain nerve fiber endings. Glutamate is one of the most widely used excitatory transmitters in the central nervous system, usually having a duration of action lasting for only a few milliseconds. Pain tracts Paleospinothalamic Pathway for Transmitting Slow- Chronic Pain The paleospinothalamic pathway is a much older sys- Figure 49- 3. Transmission of pain signals into the brain stem, thala- tem and transmits pain mainly from the peripheral mus, and cerebral cortex via the fast pricking pain pathway and the slow- chronic type C pain fibers, although it also trans- slow burning pain pathway. mits some signals from type Aδ fibers. In this pathway, DUAL PAIN PATHWAYS IN THE CORD AND the peripheral fibers terminate in the spinal cord almost BRAIN STEM—THE NEOSPINOTHALAMIC entirely in laminae II and III of the dorsal horns, which TRACT AND THE PALEOSPINOTHALAMIC together are called the substantia gelatinosa, as shown by TRACT the lateral-m ost dorsal root type C fiber in Figure 49- 2. Most of the signals then pass through one or more addi- On entering the spinal cord, the pain signals take two tional short fiber neurons within the dorsal horns before pathways to the brain, through (1) the neospinothalamic entering mainly lamina V, also in the dorsal horn. Here, tract and (2) the paleospinothalamic tract. the last neurons in the series give rise to long axons that mostly join the fibers from the fast pain pathway, passing Neospinothalamic Tract for Fast Pain first through the anterior commissure to the opposite side The fast type Aδ pain fibers transmit mainly mechanical of the cord and then upward to the brain in the anterolat- and acute thermal pain. They terminate mainly in lamina eral pathway. 615 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Substance P, the Probable Slow- Chronic Neurotrans- that the cortex plays an especially important role in inter- mitter of Type C Nerve Endings. Type C pain fiber ter- preting pain quality, even though pain perception might minals entering the spinal cord release both glutamate be principally the function of lower centers. transmitter and substance P transmitter. The glutamate transmitter acts instantaneously and lasts for only a few Special Capability of Pain Signals to Arouse Overall milliseconds. Substance P is released much more slowly, Brain Excitability. Electrical stimulation in the
