Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


acts instantaneously and lasts for only a few Special Capability of Pain Signals to Arouse Overall milliseconds. Substance P is released much more slowly, Brain Excitability. Electrical stimulation in the reticular building up in concentration over a period of seconds or areas of the brain stem and in the intralaminar nuclei of even minutes. In fact, it has been suggested that the “dou- the thalamus, the areas where the slow- suffering type of ble” pain sensation one feels after a pinprick might result pain terminates, has a strong arousal effect on nervous ac- partly from the fact that the glutamate transmitter gives a tivity throughout the entire brain. These two areas consti- faster pain sensation, whereas the substance P transmit- tute part of the brain’s principal arousal system, discussed ter gives a more lagging sensation. Regardless of the yet in Chapter 60. This explains why it is almost impossible unknown details, it seems clear that glutamate is the neu- for a person to sleep when in severe pain. rotransmitter most involved in transmitting fast pain into the central nervous system, and substance P is concerned Surgical Interruption of Pain Pathways. When a per- with slow- chronic pain. son has severe and intractable pain (sometimes resulting from rapidly spreading cancer), it is necessary to relieve Projection of Paleospinothalamic Pathway (Slow- the pain. To provide pain relief, the pain nervous path- Chronic Pain Signals) Into the Brain Stem and Thala- ways can be cut at any one of several points. If the pain mus. The slow- chronic paleospinothalamic pathway ter- is in the lower part of the body, a cordotomy in the tho- minates widely in the brain stem, in the large shaded area racic region of the spinal cord often relieves the pain for a shown in Figure 49- 3. Only 10% to 25% of the fibers pass few weeks to a few months. To perform a cordotomy, the all the way to the thalamus. Instead, most terminate in pain- conducting tracts of the spinal cord on the side op- one of three areas: (1) the reticular nuclei of the medulla, posite to the pain are cut in its anterolateral quadrant to pons, and mesencephalon; (2) the tectal area of the mes- interrupt the anterolateral sensory pathway. encephalon deep to the superior and inferior colliculi; or A cordotomy is not always successful in relieving pain (3) the periaqueductal gray region surrounding
