Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


mes- interrupt the anterolateral sensory pathway. encephalon deep to the superior and inferior colliculi; or A cordotomy is not always successful in relieving pain (3) the periaqueductal gray region surrounding the aque- for two reasons. First, many pain fibers from the upper part duct of Sylvius. These lower regions of the brain appear to of the body do not cross to the opposite side of the spinal be important for feeling the suffering types of pain. From cord until they have reached the brain, and the cordotomy the brain stem pain areas, multiple short-fi ber neurons re- does not transect these fibers. Second, pain frequently lay the pain signals upward into the intralaminar and ven- returns several months later, partly as a result of sensitiza- trolateral nuclei of the thalamus and into certain portions tion of other pathways that normally are too weak to be of the hypothalamus and other basal regions of the brain. effectual (e.g., sparse pathways in the dorsolateral cord). Poor Capability of the Nervous System to Localize PAIN SUPPRESSION (ANALGESIA) Precisely the Source of Pain Transmitted in the Slow- SYSTEM IN THE BRAIN AND SPINAL Chronic Pathway. Localization of pain transmitted via CORD the paleospinothalamic pathway is imprecise. For exam- ple, slow- chronic pain can usually be localized only to a The degree to which different people react to pain varies major part of the body, such as to one arm or leg but not tremendously. This variation results partly from a capabil- to a specific point on the arm or leg. This phenomenon is ity of the brain itself to suppress input of pain signals to in keeping with the multisynaptic, diffuse connectivity of the nervous system by activating a pain control system, this pathway. It explains why patients often have serious called an analgesia system. difficulty in localizing the source of some chronic types The analgesia system, shown in Figure 49- 4, consists of pain. of three major components: (1) The periaqueductal gray and periventricular areas of the mesencephalon and Function of the Reticular Formation, Thalamus, and upper pons surround the aqueduct of Sylvius and por- Cerebral Cortex in the Appreciation of Pain. Complete tions of the third and fourth ventricles. Neurons from removal of the somatic sensory areas of the cerebral cor- these areas send signals to (2) the raphe magnus nucleus, tex does not prevent pain perception. Therefore, it is likely a
