Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the somatic sensory areas of the cerebral cor- these areas send signals to (2) the raphe magnus nucleus, tex does not prevent pain perception. Therefore, it is likely a thin midline nucleus located in the lower pons and upper that pain impulses entering the brain stem reticular for- medulla, and the nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis, mation, the thalamus, and other lower brain centers cause located laterally in the medulla. From these nuclei, second- conscious perception of pain. This does not mean that the order signals are transmitted down the dorsolateral col- cerebral cortex has nothing to do with normal pain ap- umns in the spinal cord to (3) a pain inhibitory complex preciation; electrical stimulation of cortical somatosen- located in the dorsal horns of the spinal cord. At this point, sory areas does cause a person to perceive mild pain from the analgesia signals can block the pain before it is relayed about 3% of the points stimulated. However, it is believed to the brain. 616 CHAPTER 49 Somatic Sensations: II. Pain, Headache, and Thermal Sensations enkephalin as well. The enkephalin is believed to cause Third Periventricular ventricle nuclei both presynaptic and postsynaptic inhibition of incoming type C and type Aδ pain fibers where they synapse in the dorsal horns. Periaqueductal gray Thus, the analgesia system can block pain signals at Aqueduct the initial entry point to the spinal cord. It can also block Mesencephalon many local cord reflexes that result from pain signals, Fourth ventricle Enkephalin neuron especially withdrawal reflexes described in Chapter 55. Pons THE BRAIN’S OPIATE SYSTEM— ENDORPHINS AND ENKEPHALINS Nucleus raphe magnus More than 50 years ago, it was discovered that injection of minute quantities of morphine either into the peri- ventricular nucleus around the third ventricle or into Medulla the periaqueductal gray area of the brain stem causes an extreme degree of analgesia. In subsequent studies, Serotonergic neuron from nucleus raphe magnus morphine- like agents, mainly the opiates, were found to act at many other points in the analgesia system, including the dorsal horns of the spinal cord. Because most drugs that alter excitability of neurons do so by acting on synaptic receptors, it was assumed that the Enkephalin neuron “morphine receptors” of the analgesia system must be Pain receptor receptors for some morphine- like neurotransmitter that neuron is naturally secreted in the brain. Therefore, an exten- sive search was undertaken for the natural opiate
