Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


system must be Pain receptor receptors for some morphine- like neurotransmitter that neuron is naturally secreted in the brain. Therefore, an exten- sive search was undertaken for the natural opiate of the brain. About a dozen such opiate- like substances have now been found at different points of the nervous sys- tem. All are breakdown products of three large protein molecules—pro-o piomelanocortin, proenkephalin, and prodynorphin. Among the more important of these Second neuron in the anterolateral opiate- like substances are β-e ndorphin, met-e nkephalin, system projecting to the thalamus leu-e nkephalin, and dynorphin. Figure 49- 4. Analgesia system of the brain and spinal cord, showing The two enkephalins are found in the brain stem (1) inhibition of incoming pain signals at the cord level and (2) pres- and spinal cord, in the portions of the analgesia system ence of enkephalin- secreting neurons that suppress pain signals in described earlier, and β- endorphin is present in both both the cord and the brain stem. the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland. Dynorphin is found mainly in the same areas as the enkephalins, but in Electrical stimulation either in the periaqueductal gray much lower quantities. area or in the raphe magnus nucleus can suppress many Thus, although the details of the brain’s opiate system strong pain signals entering via the dorsal spinal roots. are not completely understood, activation of the analgesia Also, stimulation of areas at higher levels of the brain that system by nervous signals entering the periaqueductal gray excite the periaqueductal gray area can also suppress pain. and periventricular areas, or inactivation of pain pathways Some of these areas are the following: (1) the periventricu- by morphine-l ike drugs, can almost totally suppress many lar nuclei in the hypothalamus, lying adjacent to the third pain signals entering through the peripheral nerves. ventricle; and, to a lesser extent (2) the medial forebrain bundle, also in the hypothalamus. Inhibition of Pain Transmission by Simultaneous Several transmitter substances, especially enkephalin Tactile Sensory Signals and serotonin, are involved in the analgesia system. Many Another important event in the saga of pain control was nerve fibers derived from the periventricular nuclei and the discovery that stimulation of large- type Aβ sensory fib- from the periaqueductal gray area secrete enkephalin at ers from peripheral tactile receptors can depress transmis- their endings. Thus, as shown in Figure 49- 4, the end- sion of pain signals from the same
