Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


area secrete enkephalin at ers from peripheral tactile receptors can depress transmis- their endings. Thus, as shown in Figure 49- 4, the end- sion of pain signals from the same body area. This effect ings of many fibers in the raphe magnus nucleus release presumably results from local lateral inhibition in the spi- enkephalin when stimulated. nal cord. It explains why such simple maneuvers as rubbing Fibers originating in this area send signals to the dorsal the skin near painful areas is often effective in relieving horns of the spinal cord to secrete serotonin at their end- pain, and it probably also explains why liniments are often ings. The serotonin causes local cord neurons to secrete useful for pain relief. 617 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology This mechanism and the simultaneous psychogenic ex- visceral inflammation, visceral infectious disease, and citation of the central analgesia system are probably also other visceral ailments. Often, the viscera have sensory the basis of pain relief by acupuncture. receptors for no other modalities of sensation besides Treatment of Pain by Electrical Stimulation pain. Also, visceral pain differs from surface pain in sev- eral important aspects. Several clinical procedures have been developed for sup- One of the most important differences between sur- pressing pain with use of electrical stimulation. Stimulat- face pain and visceral pain is that highly localized types ing electrodes are placed on selected areas of the skin or, of damage to the viscera seldom cause severe pain. For on occasion, implanted over the spinal cord, supposedly to example, a surgeon can cut the gut entirely in two in a stimulate the dorsal sensory columns. In some patients, electrodes have been placed stere- patient who is awake without causing significant pain. otaxically in appropriate intralaminar nuclei of the thala- Conversely, any stimulus that causes diffuse stimula- mus or in the periventricular or periaqueductal area of the tion of pain nerve endings throughout a viscus causes diencephalon. The patient can then personally control the pain that can be severe. For example, ischemia caused degree of stimulation. Dramatic relief has been reported in by occluding the blood supply to a large area of gut some cases. Also, pain relief has been reported to last for stimulates many diffuse pain fibers at the same time as long as 24 hours after only a few minutes of stimulation. and can
