Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


relief has been reported to last for stimulates many diffuse pain fibers at the same time as long as 24 hours after only a few minutes of stimulation. and can result in extreme pain. REFERRED PAIN Causes of True Visceral Pain Any stimulus that excites pain nerve endings in diffuse Often, a person feels pain in a part of the body that is fairly areas of the viscera can cause visceral pain. Such stimuli remote from the tissue causing the pain. This phenom- include ischemia of visceral tissue, chemical damage to enon is called referred pain. For example, pain in one of the surfaces of the viscera, spasm of the smooth muscle the visceral organs often is referred to an area on the body of a hollow viscus, excess distention of a hollow viscus, surface. Knowledge of the different types of referred pain and stretching of the connective tissue surrounding or is important in clinical diagnosis because, in many vis- within the viscus. Essentially all visceral pain that origi- ceral ailments, the only clinical sign is referred pain. nates in the thoracic and abdominal cavities is trans- mitted through small type C pain fibers and, therefore, Mechanism of Referred Pain. Figure 49- 5 shows the can transmit only the chronic, aching, suffering type of probable mechanism whereby most pain is referred. In this pain. figure, branches of visceral pain fibers are shown to synapse Ischemia. Ischemia causes visceral pain in the same way in the spinal cord on the same second-o rder neurons (1 and as in other tissues, presumably because of the formation of 2) that receive pain signals from the skin. When the visceral acidic metabolic end products or tissue- degenerative prod- pain fibers are stimulated, pain signals from the viscera are ucts such as bradykinin, proteolytic enzymes, or others that conducted through at least some of the same neurons that stimulate pain nerve endings. conduct pain signals from the skin, and the person has the Chemical Stimuli. On occasion, damaging substances feeling that the sensations originate in the skin. leak from the gastrointestinal tract into the peritoneal cav- ity. For example, proteolytic acidic gastric juice may leak VISCERAL PAIN through a ruptured gastric or duodenal ulcer. This juice causes widespread digestion of the visceral peritoneum, Pain from the different viscera of the abdomen and chest thus stimulating broad areas of pain fibers. The pain is usu- is
