Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


juice causes widespread digestion of the visceral peritoneum, Pain from the different viscera of the abdomen and chest thus stimulating broad areas of pain fibers. The pain is usu- is one of the few criteria that can be used for diagnosing ally excruciatingly severe. Spasm of a Hollow Viscus. Spasm of a portion of the gut, the gallbladder, a bile duct, a ureter, or any other hollow viscus can cause pain, possibly by mechanical stimulation of the pain nerve endings. Another pos- sibility is that the spasm may cause diminished blood 1 flow to the muscle, combined with the muscle’s in- 2 creased metabolic need for nutrients, thus causing se- vere pain. Often, pain from a spastic viscus occurs in the form of cramps, with the pain increasing to a high degree of severity and then subsiding. This process continues in- termittently once every few minutes. The intermittent cycles result from periods of contraction of smooth Visceral Skin nerve muscle. For example, each time a peristaltic wave trav- nerve fibers fibers els along an overly excitable spastic gut, a cramp occurs. The cramping type of pain frequently occurs in persons Figure 49- 5. Mechanism of referred pain and referred hyperalgesia. with appendicitis, gastroenteritis, constipation, men- Neurons 1 and 2 receive pain signals from the skin as well as from struation, parturition, gallbladder disease, or ureteral the viscera. obstruction. 618 CHAPTER 49 Somatic Sensations: II. Pain, Headache, and Thermal Sensations Overdistention of a Hollow Viscus. Extreme overfill- Heart ing of a hollow viscus also can result in pain, presumably because of overstretch of the tissues themselves. Overdis- Esophagus tention can also collapse the blood vessels that encircle the viscus or that pass into its wall, thus perhaps promoting ischemic pain. Stomach Insensitive Viscera. A few visceral areas are almost com- pletely insensitive to pain of any type. These areas include Liver and the parenchyma of the liver and the alveoli of the lungs. gallbladder Yet, the liver capsule is extremely sensitive to both direct trauma and stretch, and the bile ducts are also sensitive to Pylorus pain. In the lungs, even though the alveoli are insensitive, Umbilicus both the bronchi and the parietal pleura are very sensitive Appendix and to pain. small intestine “PARIETAL PAIN” CAUSED BY VISCERAL Right kidney DISEASE Left kidney Colon When a disease affects a viscus, the disease process often spreads to the parietal peritoneum, pleura, or
