Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


small intestine “PARIETAL PAIN” CAUSED BY VISCERAL Right kidney DISEASE Left kidney Colon When a disease affects a viscus, the disease process often spreads to the parietal peritoneum, pleura, or pericar- Ureter dium. These parietal surfaces, like the skin, are supplied with extensive pain innervation from the peripheral spi- nal nerves. Therefore, pain from the parietal wall over- Figure 49- 6. Surface areas of referred pain from different visceral organs. lying a viscus is frequently sharp. An example here can emphasize the difference between this pain and true vis- ceral pain—a knife incision through the parietal perito- nerves and enter the spinal cord between segments C3 neum is very painful, whereas a similar cut through the and T5. Therefore, as shown in Figure 49-6 , pain from visceral peritoneum or through a gut wall is not very pain- the heart is referred to the side of the neck, over the ful, if it is painful at all. shoulder, over the pectoral muscles, down the arm, and LOCALIZATION OF VISCERAL PAIN— into the substernal area of the upper chest. These are “VISCERAL” AND “PARIETAL” PAIN the areas of the body surface that send their own so- TRANSMISSION PATHWAYS matosensory nerve fibers into the C3 to T5 cord seg- ments. Usually, the pain is on the left side rather than Pain from the different viscera is frequently difficult to on the right because the left side of the heart is much localize, for several reasons. First, the patient’s brain more frequently involved in coronary disease than is does not know from firsthand experience that the differ- the right side. ent internal organs exist; therefore, any pain that origi- The stomach originated approximately from the sev- nates internally can be localized only generally. Second, enth to ninth thoracic segments of the embryo. Therefore, sensations from the abdomen and thorax are transmit- stomach pain is referred to the anterior epigastrium above ted through two pathways to the central nervous sys- the umbilicus, which is the surface area of the body sub- tem, the true visceral pathway and the parietal pathway. served by the seventh through ninth thoracic segments. True visceral pain is transmitted via pain sensory fibers Figure 49- 6 shows several other surface areas to which in the autonomic nerve bundles, and the sensations are visceral pain is referred from other organs, in general rep- referred to surface areas of the body that
