Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


areas to which in the autonomic nerve bundles, and the sensations are visceral pain is referred from other organs, in general rep- referred to surface areas of the body that are often far resenting the areas in the embryo from which the respec- from the painful organ. Conversely, parietal sensations tive organs originated. are conducted directly into local spinal nerves from the Parietal Pathway for Transmission of Abdominal and parietal peritoneum, pleura, or pericardium, and these Thoracic Pain. Pain from the viscera is frequently local- sensations are usually localized directly over the painful ized to two surface areas of the body at the same time area. because of the dual transmission of pain through the re- Localization of Referred Pain Transmitted via Vis- ferred visceral pathway and the direct parietal pathway. ceral Pathways. When visceral pain is referred to the Thus, Figure 49- 7 shows dual transmission from an in- surface of the body, the person generally localizes it in flamed appendix. Pain impulses pass first from the ap- the dermatomal segment from which the visceral organ pendix through visceral pain fibers located within sym- originated in the embryo, not necessarily where the vis- pathetic nerve bundles and then into the spinal cord at ceral organ now lies. For example, the heart originated about T10 or T11; this pain is referred to an area around in the neck and upper thorax, so the heart’s visceral the umbilicus and is of the aching, cramping type. Pain pain fibers pass upward along the sympathetic sensory impulses also often originate in the parietal peritoneum 619 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Descending tracts Ascending tracts T10 Fasciculus gracilis Fasciculus cuneatus Lateral Dorsal L1 corticospinal spinocerebellar Lateral Rubrospinal spinothalamic Olivospinal Ventral spinocerebellar Tectospinal Spinotectal Ventral corticospinal Vestibulospinal Ventral spinothalamic Figure 49- 8. Cross section of the spinal cord showing principal as- Visceral pain cending tracts on the right and principal descending tracts on the left. Parietal pain Tic Douloureux A lancinating or stabbing type of pain occasionally occurs in some people over one side of the face in the sensory distribu- tion area (or part of the area) of the fifth or ninth nerves; this Figure 49- 7. Visceral and parietal transmission of pain signals from phenomenon is called tic douloureux (or trigeminal neural- the appendix. gia or glossopharyngeal neuralgia). The pain feels like sudden electrical shocks,
