Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


7. Visceral and parietal transmission of pain signals from phenomenon is called tic douloureux (or trigeminal neural- the appendix. gia or glossopharyngeal neuralgia). The pain feels like sudden electrical shocks, and it may appear for only a few seconds at a time or may be almost continuous. Often, it is set off where the inflamed appendix touches or is adherent to by exceedingly sensitive trigger areas on the surface of the the abdominal wall. These impulses cause pain of the face, in the mouth, or inside the throat—almost always by sharp type directly over the irritated peritoneum in the a mechanoreceptive stimulus rather than a pain stimulus. right lower quadrant of the abdomen. For example, when the patient swallows a bolus of food, as the food touches a tonsil, it might set off a severe lancinating Some Clinical Abnormalities of Pain and Other pain in the mandibular portion of the fifth nerve. Somatic Sensations The pain of tic douloureux can usually be blocked by Hyperalgesia—Hypersensitivity to Pain surgically cutting the peripheral nerve from the hyper- sensitive area. The sensory portion of the fifth nerve is A pain nervous pathway sometimes becomes excessively often sectioned immediately inside the cranium, where excitable, which gives rise to hyperalgesia. Possible causes of the motor and sensory roots of the fifth nerve sepa- hyperalgesia are the following: (1) excessive sensitivity of the rate from each other, so that the motor portions, which pain receptors, called primary hyperalgesia; and (2) facilita- are necessary for many jaw movements, can be spared tion of sensory transmission, called secondary hyperalgesia. while the sensory elements are destroyed. This opera- An example of primary hyperalgesia is the extreme sen- tion leaves the side of the face anesthetic, which may be sitivity of sunburned skin, which results from sensitization annoying. Furthermore, sometimes the operation is un- of the skin pain endings by local tissue products from the successful, indicating that the lesion that causes the pain burn—perhaps histamine, prostaglandins, and others. Sec- might be in the sensory nucleus in the brain stem and ondary hyperalgesia frequently results from lesions in the not in the peripheral nerves. spinal cord or the thalamus. Several of these lesions are dis- Brown- Séquard Syndrome cussed in subsequent sections. If the spinal cord is transected entirely, all sensations and Herpes Zoster (Shingles) motor functions distal to the segment of transection are Occasionally, herpesvirus infects a dorsal root
