Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


subsequent sections. If the spinal cord is transected entirely, all sensations and Herpes Zoster (Shingles) motor functions distal to the segment of transection are Occasionally, herpesvirus infects a dorsal root ganglion. blocked, but if the spinal cord is transected on only one side, This infection causes severe pain in the dermatomal seg- the Brown- Séquard syndrome occurs. The effects of such ment subserved by the ganglion, thus eliciting a segmen- transection can be predicted from knowledge of the cord tal type of pain that circles halfway around the body. The fiber tracts shown in Figure 49- 8. All motor functions are disease is called herpes zoster, or shingles, because of a skin blocked on the side of the transection in all segments below eruption that often ensues. the level of the transection. Yet, only some of the modalities The cause of the pain is presumably infection of the of sensation are lost on the transected side, and others are pain neuronal cells in the dorsal root ganglion by the lost on the opposite side. The sensations of pain, heat, and virus. In addition to causing pain, the virus is carried cold—sensations served by the spinothalamic pathway— by neuronal cytoplasmic flow outward through the neu- are lost on the opposite side of the body in all dermatomes ronal peripheral axons to their cutaneous origins. Here two to six segments below the level of the transection. By the virus causes a rash that vesiculates within a few days contrast, the sensations that are transmitted only in the and then crusts over within another few days, all occur- dorsal and dorsolateral columns—kinesthetic and position ring within the dermatomal area served by the infected sensations, vibration sensation, discrete localization, and dorsal root. two- point discrimination—are lost on the side of the tran- 620 CHAPTER 49 Somatic Sensations: II. Pain, Headache, and Thermal Sensations section in all dermatomes below the level of the transection. Cerebral vault Brain stem and headaches cerebellar vault Discrete “light touch” is impaired on the side of the transec- headaches tion because the principal pathway for the transmission of light touch, the dorsal column, is transected. That is, the fibers in this column do not cross to the opposite side until they reach the medulla of the brain. “Crude touch,” which is poorly localized, still persists because of partial transmis- sion in the opposite spinothalamic tract. Nasal sinus and eye Headache
