Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


they reach the medulla of the brain. “Crude touch,” which is poorly localized, still persists because of partial transmis- sion in the opposite spinothalamic tract. Nasal sinus and eye Headache headaches Headaches are a type of pain referred to the surface of the head from deep head structures. Some headaches result from pain stimuli arising inside the cranium, but others result from pain arising outside the cranium, such as from the nasal sinuses. Headache of Intracranial Origin Pain- Sensitive Areas in the Cranial Vault. The brain tis- sues themselves are almost totally insensitive to pain. Even cutting or electrically stimulating the sensory areas of the Figure 49- 9. Areas of headache resulting from different causes. cerebral cortex only occasionally causes pain; instead, it causes prickly types of paresthesias on the area of the body is normally provided by the cerebrospinal fluid. The weight of represented by the portion of the sensory cortex stimu- the brain stretches and otherwise distorts the various dural lated. Therefore, it is likely that much or most of the pain surfaces and thereby elicits the pain that causes the headache. of headache is not caused by damage in the brain itself. Conversely, tugging on the venous sinuses around the Migraine Headache. Migraine headache is a special type brain, damaging the tentorium, or stretching the dura at the of headache that may result from abnormal vascular function, base of the brain can cause intense pain that is recognized although the exact mechanism is unknown. Migraine head- as headache. Also, almost any type of traumatizing, crush- aches often begin with various prodromal sensations, such ing, or stretching stimulus to the blood vessels of the menin- as nausea, loss of vision in part of the field of vision, visual ges can cause headache. An especially sensitive structure is aura, and other types of sensory hallucinations. Ordinarily, the middle meningeal artery; neurosurgeons are careful to the prodromal symptoms begin 30 to 60 minutes before the anesthetize this artery specifically when performing brain beginning of the headache. Any theory that explains migraine operations with use of local anesthesia. headache must also explain the prodromal symptoms. Areas of the Head to Which Intracranial Headache One theory of migraine headaches is that prolonged emo- Is Referred. Stimulation of pain receptors in the cerebral tion or tension causes reflex vasospasm of some of the arter- ies of the head, including arteries that supply the
