Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


emo- Is Referred. Stimulation of pain receptors in the cerebral tion or tension causes reflex vasospasm of some of the arter- ies of the head, including arteries that supply the brain. The vault above the tentorium, including the upper surface of vasospasm theoretically produces ischemia of portions of the tentorium itself, initiates pain impulses in the cerebral the brain, which is responsible for the prodromal symptoms. portion of the fifth nerve and, therefore, causes referred Then, as a result of the intense ischemia, something happens headache to the front half of the head in the surface areas to the vascular walls, perhaps exhaustion of smooth muscle supplied by this somatosensory portion of the fifth cranial contraction, to allow the blood vessels to become flaccid and nerve, as shown in Figure 49- 9. incapable of maintaining normal vascular tone for 24 to 48 Conversely, pain impulses from beneath the tentorium hours. The blood pressure in the vessels causes them to dilate enter the central nervous system mainly through the glos- and pulsate intensely, and it is postulated that the excessive sopharyngeal, vagal, and second cervical nerves, which also stretching of the walls of the arteries—including some extrac- supply the scalp above, behind, and slightly below the ear. ranial arteries, such as the temporal artery—causes the actual Subtentorial pain stimuli cause “occipital headache” re- pain of migraine headaches. Other theories about the cause ferred to the posterior part of the head. of migraine headaches include spreading cortical depression, Types of Intracranial Headache psychological abnormalities, and vasospasm caused by excess Headache of Meningitis. One of the most severe head- local potassium in the cerebral extracellular fluid. aches of all is that resulting from meningitis, which causes There may be a genetic predisposition to migraine head- inflammation of the meninges, including the sensitive ar- aches because a positive family history for migraine has eas of the dura and the sensitive areas around the venous been reported in 65% to 90% of cases. Migraine headaches sinuses. Such intense damage can cause extreme headache also occur about twice as frequently in women as in men. pain referred over the entire head. Alcoholic Headache. As many people have experienced, Headache Caused by Low Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure. a headache often follows excessive alcohol consumption. It Removing as little as 20 milliliters of fluid from the spinal ca- is likely that alcohol, because it is toxic to tissues, directly
