Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


headache often follows excessive alcohol consumption. It Removing as little as 20 milliliters of fluid from the spinal ca- is likely that alcohol, because it is toxic to tissues, directly nal, particularly if the person remains in an upright position, irritates the meninges and causes the intracranial pain. De- often causes intense intracranial headache. Removing this hydration may also play a role in the hangover that follows quantity of fluid removes part of the flotation for the brain that an alcoholic binge; hydration usually attenuates but does not abolish headache and other symptoms of hangover. 621 UNIT IX UNIT IX The Nervous System: A. General Principles and Sensory Physiology Freezing Indiffer- Burning Thermal gradations are discriminated by at least three Cold Cool Warm Hot cold ent hot types of sensory receptors—cold receptors, warmth receptors, and pain receptors. The pain receptors are 10 Warmth stimulated only by extreme degrees of heat or cold and are receptors responsible, along with the cold and warmth receptors, 8 for “freezing cold” and “burning hot” sensations. 6 Cold-pain Heat-pain The cold and warmth receptors are located imme- 4 Cold receptors diately under the skin at discrete separated spots. Most areas of the body have 3 to 10 times as many cold spots as 2 warmth spots; the number in different areas of the body varies from 15 to 25 cold spots/cm2 in the lips to 3 to 5 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 cold spots/cm2 in the finger to less than 1 cold spot/cm2 Temperature ((cid:31)C) in some broad surface areas of the trunk. Figure 49- 10. Discharge frequencies at different skin temperatures Warmth receptors are believed to be free nerve end- of a cold pain fiber, a cold fiber, a warmth fiber, and a heat pain fiber. ings because warmth signals are transmitted mainly over unmyelinated type C nerve fibers at transmission veloci- Extracranial Types of Headache ties of only 0.4 to 2 m/sec. A definitive cold receptor has been identified. It is Headache Resulting from Muscle Spasm. Emotional ten- a special, small, type Aδ myelinated nerve ending that sion often causes many of the muscles of the head, especially the branches several times, the tips of which protrude into muscles attached to the scalp and the neck muscles attached to the bottom surfaces of basal epidermal cells. Signals the occiput, to become spastic; this mechanism is
