Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


which protrude into muscles attached to the scalp and the neck muscles attached to the bottom surfaces of basal epidermal cells. Signals the occiput, to become spastic; this mechanism is postulated as are transmitted from these receptors via thinly myelin- a common cause of headache. The pain of the spastic head mus- ated type Aδ nerve fibers at velocities of about 20 m/ cles supposedly is referred to the overlying areas of the head and gives one the same type of headache as do intracranial lesions. sec. Some cold sensations are believed to be transmit- Headache Caused by Irritation of Nasal and Accessory ted in type C nerve fibers as well, which suggests that Nasal Structures. The mucous membranes of the nose and some free nerve endings also might function as cold nasal sinuses are sensitive to pain, but not intensely so. Nev- receptors. ertheless, infection or other irritative processes in widespread Stimulation of Thermal Receptors—Sensations of areas of the nasal structures often summate and cause head- ache that is referred behind the eyes or, in the case of frontal si- Cold, Cool, Indifferent, Warm, and Hot. Figure 49- 10 nus infection, to the frontal surfaces of the forehead and scalp, shows the effects of different temperatures on the respons- as shown in Figure 49- 9. Also, pain from the lower sinuses, es of four types of nerve fibers: (1) a pain fiber stimulated such as from the maxillary sinuses, can be felt in the face. by cold; (2) a cold fiber; (3) a warmth fiber; and (4) a pain Headache Caused by Eye Disorders. Difficulty in focusing fiber stimulated by heat. Note especially that these fibers one’s eyes clearly may cause excessive contraction of the eye respond differently at different levels of temperature. For ciliary muscles in an attempt to gain clear vision. Even though example, in the very cold region, only the cold pain fibers these muscles are extremely small, their tonic contraction is be- are stimulated (if the skin becomes even colder so that it lieved to cause retro-o rbital headache. Also, excessive attempts nearly freezes or actually does freeze, these fibers cannot to focus the eyes can result in reflex spasm in various facial and be stimulated). As the temperature rises to +10°C to 15°C, extraocular muscles, which is a possible cause of headache. the cold- pain impulses cease, but the cold receptors begin A second
