Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


stimulated). As the temperature rises to +10°C to 15°C, extraocular muscles, which is a possible cause of headache. the cold- pain impulses cease, but the cold receptors begin A second type of headache that originates in the eyes to be stimulated, reaching peak stimulation at about 24°C occurs when the eyes are exposed to excessive irradiation and fading out slightly above 40°C. Above about 30°C, the by light rays, especially ultraviolet light. Looking at the sun or the arc of an arc welder for even a few seconds may re- warmth receptors begin to be stimulated, but these also sult in headache that lasts from 24 to 48 hours. The head- fade out at about 49°C. Finally, at around 45°C, the heat ache sometimes results from “actinic” irritation of the con- pain fibers begin to be stimulated by heat and, paradoxi- junctivae, and the pain is referred to the surface of the head cally, some of the cold fibers begin to be stimulated again, or retro-o rbitally. However, focusing intense light from an possibly because of damage to the cold endings caused by arc or the sun on the retina can also burn the retina, which the excessive heat. could be the cause of the headache. One can understand from Figure 49-1 0 that a person determines the different gradations of thermal sensa- THERMAL SENSATIONS tions by the relative degrees of stimulation of the dif- ferent types of endings. One can also understand why THERMAL RECEPTORS AND THEIR extreme degrees of both cold and heat can be painful EXCITATION and why both these sensations, when intense enough, may give almost the same quality of sensation—that is, People can perceive different gradations of cold and heat, freezing cold and burning hot sensations feel almost from freezing cold to cold to cool to indifferent to warm to alike. hot to burning hot. 622 dnoces rep seslupmI CHAPTER 49 Somatic Sensations: II. Pain, Headache, and Thermal Sensations Stimulatory Effects of Rising and Falling Tempera- one or more cord neurons, the signals enter long, ascend- ture—Adaptation of Thermal Receptors. When a cold ing thermal fibers that cross to the opposite anterolateral receptor is suddenly subjected to an abrupt fall in tem- sensory tract and terminate in both (1) the reticular areas perature, it becomes strongly stimulated at first, but this of the brain stem and (2) the ventrobasal complex of the stimulation fades rapidly
