Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


terminate in both (1) the reticular areas perature, it becomes strongly stimulated at first, but this of the brain stem and (2) the ventrobasal complex of the stimulation fades rapidly during the first few seconds and thalamus. progressively more slowly during the next 30 minutes or A few thermal signals are also relayed to the cerebral more. In other words, the receptor “adapts” to a great ex- somatic sensory cortex from the ventrobasal complex. tent, but never 100%. Occasionally, a neuron in cortical somatic sensory area Thus, it is evident that the thermal senses respond I has been found by microelectrode studies to be directly markedly to changes in temperature in addition to being responsive to either cold or warm stimuli on a specific able to respond to steady states of temperature. This area of the skin. However, removal of the entire cortical means that when the temperature of the skin is actively postcentral gyrus in a person reduces but does not abolish falling, a person feels much colder than when the tem- the ability to distinguish gradations of temperature. perature remains cold at the same level. Conversely, if the temperature is actively rising, the person feels much Bibliography warmer than he or she would at the same temperature if it were constant. The response to changes in tempera- Alles SRA, Smith PA: Etiology and pharmacology of neuropathic pain. ture explains the extreme degree of heat one feels on first Pharmacol Rev 70:315, 2018. Ashina M, Hansen JM, Do TP, Melo- Carrillo A, Burstein R, Moskow- entering a tub of hot water and the extreme degree of cold itz MA: Migraine and the trigeminovascular system-4 0 years and felt on going from a heated room to outdoors on a cold counting. Lancet Neurol18:795, 2019. day. Baral P, Udit S, Chiu IM. Pain and immunity: implications for host defence. Nat Rev Immunol 19:433, 2019. MECHANISM OF STIMULATION OF Bennett DL, Clark AJ, Huang J, Waxman SG, Dib- Hajj SD: The role THERMAL RECEPTORS of voltage- gated sodium channels in pain signaling. Physiol Rev 99:1079, 2019. It is believed that the cold and warmth receptors are stim- Bokiniec P, Zampieri N, Lewin GR, Poulet JF: The neural circuits of ulated by changes in their metabolic rates, and that these thermal perception. Curr Opin Neurobiol 52:98, 2018. Bourinet E, Altier C, Hildebrand ME, et al: Calcium-p ermeable ion changes result from the fact
