Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Koninck Y: Normal and abnormal coding of THE NERVOUS SYSTEM somatosensory stimuli causing pain. Nat Neurosci 17:183, 2014. Steinhoff MS, von Mentzer B, Geppetti P, et al: Tachykinins and their In general, thermal signals are transmitted in pathways receptors: contributions to physiological control and the mecha- parallel to those for pain signals. On entering the spinal nisms of disease. Physiol Rev 94:265, 2014. cord, the signals travel for a few segments upward or Waxman SG, Zamponi GW: Regulating excitability of peripheral af- downward in the tract of Lissauer and then terminate ferents: emerging ion channel targets. Nat Neurosci 17:153, 2014. Zeilhofer HU, Wildner H, Yévenes GE: Fast synaptic inhibition in spinal mainly in laminae I, II, and III of the dorsal horns—the sensory processing and pain control. Physiol Rev 92:193, 2012. same as for pain. After a small amount of processing by 623 UNIT IX CHAPTER 5 0 The Eye: I. Optics of Vision PHYSICAL PRINCIPLES OF OPTICS ratio of the two refractive indices of the two transparent media; and (2) the degree of angulation between the inter- Understanding the optical system of the eye requires face and the entering wave front. familiarity with the basic principles of optics, including Application of Refractive Principles to Lenses such factors as the physics of light refraction, focusing, and depth of focus. A brief review of these physical prin- Convex Lens Focuses Light Rays. Figure 50- 2 shows ciples is presented in this chapter, followed by discussion parallel light rays entering a convex lens. The light rays of the optics of the eye. passing through the center of the lens strike the lens ex- actly perpendicular to the lens surface and, therefore, pass Refraction of Light through the lens without being refracted. Toward either edge of the lens, however, the light rays strike a progres- Refractive Index of a Transparent Substance. Light rays sively more angulated interface. The outer rays bend more travel through air at a velocity of about 300,000 km/sec, but and more toward the center, which is called convergence of they travel much slower through transparent solids and liq- uids. The refractive index of a transparent substance is the A ratio of the velocity of light in air to the velocity in the sub- stance. The refractive index of air is 1.00. Thus, if light trav- els through a particular type of glass at a velocity of 200,000 km/sec, the
