Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


velocity in the sub- stance. The refractive index of air is 1.00. Thus, if light trav- els through a particular type of glass at a velocity of 200,000 km/sec, the refractive index of this glass is 300,000 divided by 200,000, or 1.50. Refraction of Light Rays at an Interface Between Two Media With Different Refractive Indices. When light rays Wave fronts Glass B traveling forward in a beam (as shown in Figure 50- 1A) strike an interface that is perpendicular to the beam, the rays enter the second medium without deviating from their course. The only effect that occurs is decreased velocity of transmission and shorter wavelength, as shown in the fig- ure by the shorter distances between wave fronts. If the light rays pass through an angulated interface, as shown in Figure 50- 1B, the rays bend if the refractive in- Figure 50- 1. Light rays entering a glass surface perpendicular to the dices of the two media are different from each other. In this light rays (A) and a glass surface angulated to the light rays (B). This figure, the light rays are leaving air, which has a refractive in- figure demonstrates that the distance between waves after they en- dex of 1.00, and are entering a block of glass having a refrac- ter the glass is shortened to about two-thirds that in air. It also shows tive index of 1.50. When the beam first strikes the angulated that light rays striking an angulated glass surface are bent. interface, the lower edge of the beam enters the glass ahead of the upper edge. The wave front in the upper portion of the beam continues to travel at a velocity of 300,000 km/sec, whereas that which entered the glass travels at a velocity of 200,000 km/sec. This difference in velocity causes the upper portion of the wave front to move ahead of the lower portion so that the wave front is no longer vertical but is angulated to the right. Because the direction in which light travels is al- ways perpendicular to the plane of the wave front, the direc- tion of travel of the light beam bends downward. Light from Focal length This bending of light rays at an angulated interface is distant source known as refraction. Note particularly that the degree of Figure 50- 2. Bending of light rays at each surface of a convex spheri- refraction
