Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


an angulated interface is distant source known as refraction. Note particularly that the degree of Figure 50- 2. Bending of light rays at each surface of a convex spheri- refraction increases as a function of the following: (1) the cal lens showing that parallel light rays are focused to a focal point. 627 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses A Light from distant source Figure 50-3 . Bending of light rays at each surface of a concave spherical lens showing that parallel light rays are diverged. B the rays. Half the bending occurs when the rays enter the lens, and half occurs as the rays exit from the opposite side. If the lens has exactly the proper curvature, parallel light rays passing through each part of the lens will be bent ex- actly enough so that all the rays will pass through a single point, called the focal point. Concave Lens Diverges Light Rays. Figure 50- 3 shows the effect of a concave lens on parallel light rays. The rays that enter the center of the lens strike an interface that is perpendicular to the beam and, therefore, do not refract. The rays at the edge of the lens enter the lens ahead of the rays in the center. This effect is opposite to the effect in Figure 50- 4. A, Point focus of parallel light rays by a spherical con- the convex lens, and it causes the peripheral light rays to vex lens. B, Line focus of parallel light rays by a cylindrical convex lens. diverge from the light rays that pass through the center of the lens. Thus, the concave lens diverges light rays, but the cylindrical lenses at right angles to each other. The vertical convex lens converges light rays. cylindrical lens converges the light rays that pass through Cylindrical Lens Bends Light Rays in Only One Plane— the two sides of the lens, and the horizontal lens converges Comparison With Spherical Lenses. Figure 50- 4 shows the top and bottom rays. Thus, all the light rays come to both a convex spherical lens and a convex cylindrical lens. a single point focus. In other words, two cylindrical lenses Note that the cylindrical lens bends light rays from the two crossed at right angles to each other perform the same func- sides of the lens but not from the top or the
