Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


cylindrical lens bends light rays from the two crossed at right angles to each other perform the same func- sides of the lens but not from the top or the bottom—that tion as one spherical lens of the same refractive power. is, bending occurs in one plane but not the other. Thus, Focal Length of a Lens parallel light rays are bent to a focal line. Conversely, light rays that pass through the spherical lens are refracted at all The distance beyond a convex lens at which parallel rays edges of the lens (in both planes) toward the central ray, converge to a common focal point is called the focal length and all the rays come to a focal point. of the lens. The diagram at the top of Figure 50- 6 demon- The cylindrical lens is well demonstrated by using a test strates this focusing of parallel light rays. tube full of water. If the test tube is placed in a beam of sun- In the middle diagram, the light rays that enter the con- light and a piece of paper is brought progressively closer to vex lens are not parallel but are diverging because the origin the opposite side of the tube, a certain distance will be found of the light is a point source not far away from the lens. at which the light rays come to a focal line. The spherical lens Because these rays are diverging outward from the point is demonstrated by an ordinary magnifying glass. If such a source, they do not focus at the same distance away from lens is placed in a beam of sunlight, and a piece of paper is the lens as do parallel rays. In other words, when rays of brought progressively closer to the lens, the light rays will light that are already diverging enter a convex lens, the dis- impinge on a common focal point at an appropriate distance. tance of focus on the other side of the lens is farther from Concave cylindrical lenses diverge light rays in only one the lens than the focal length of the lens for parallel rays. plane in the same manner that convex cylindrical lenses The bottom diagram of Figure 50- 6 shows light rays converge light rays in one plane. Figure 50- 5A shows how diverging toward a convex lens that has far greater curva- light is focused
