Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Figure 50- 6 shows light rays converge light rays in one plane. Figure 50- 5A shows how diverging toward a convex lens that has far greater curva- light is focused from a point source to a line focus by a cy- ture than that of the other two lenses in the figure. In this lindrical lens. diagram, the distance from the lens at which the light rays Combination of Two Cylindrical Lenses at Right Angles come to focus is exactly the same as that from the lens in the Equals a Spherical Lens. Figure 50- 5B shows two convex first diagram, in which the lens is less convex but the rays 628 CHAPTER 50 The Eye: I. Optics of Vision A entering it are parallel. This demonstrates that both parallel Line focus rays and diverging rays can be focused at the same distance beyond a lens, provided that the lens changes its convexity. Formation of an Image by a Convex Lens Figure 50- 7A shows a convex lens with two point sources of light to the left. Because light rays pass through the center of a convex lens without being refracted in either direction, the light rays from each point source of light are shown to Point source of light come to a point focus on the opposite side of the lens di- rectly in line with the point source and the center of the lens. Any object in front of the lens is, in reality, a mosaic of point sources of light. Some of these points are very bright and some are very weak, and they vary in color. Each point source of light on the object comes to a separate point focus on the opposite side of the lens in line with the lens center. If a white sheet of paper is placed at the focus distance from the lens, one can see an image of the object, as demonstrat- ed in Figure 50- 7B. However, this image is upside down B with respect to the original object, and the two lateral sides Point source of light of the image are reversed. The lens of a camera focuses im- ages on film via this method. Point focus Measurement of the Refractive Power of a Lens— Diopter Figure 50-5 . A, Focusing of light from a point source to a line focus The more a lens bends light rays,
