Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of the Refractive Power of a Lens— Diopter Figure 50-5 . A, Focusing of light from a point source to a line focus The more a lens bends light rays, the greater is its “refrac- by a cylindrical lens. B, Two cylindrical convex lenses at right angles to tive power.” This refractive power is measured in terms each other, demonstrating that one lens converges light rays in one of diopters. The refractive power in diopters of a convex plane, and the other lens converges light rays in the plane at a right lens is equal to 1 meter divided by its focal length. Thus, a angle. The two lenses combined give the same point focus as that spherical lens that converges parallel light rays to a focal obtained with a single spherical convex lens. point 1 meter beyond the lens has a refractive power of +1 diopter, as shown in Figure 50-8 . If the lens is capable of bending parallel light rays twice as much as a lens with a power of +1 diopter, it is said to have a strength of +2 diopters, and the light rays come to a focal point 0.5 me- ter beyond the lens. A lens capable of converging parallel light rays to a focal point only 10 centimeters (0.10 meter) beyond the lens has a refractive power of +10 diopters. The refractive power of concave lenses cannot be stated in terms of the focal distance beyond the lens because the light rays diverge rather than focus to a point. However, if a concave lens diverges light rays at the same rate that a 1-d iopter convex lens converges them, the concave lens is said to have a dioptric Light from distant source strength of −1. Likewise, if the concave lens diverges light rays as much as a +10-d iopter lens converges them, this lens is said to have a strength of −10 diopters. Focal Concave lenses “neutralize” the refractive power of con- points vex lenses. Thus, placing a 1- diopter concave lens imme- diately in front of a 1- diopter convex lens results in a lens Point source system with zero refractive power. The strengths of cylindrical lenses are computed in the same manner as the strengths of spherical lenses, ex- cept that the axis of the cylindrical lens must be stated in addition to its strength. If a cylindrical lens focuses parallel
