Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


manner as the strengths of spherical lenses, ex- cept that the axis of the cylindrical lens must be stated in addition to its strength. If a cylindrical lens focuses parallel light rays to a line focus 1 meter beyond the lens, it has a strength of +1 diopter. Conversely, if a cylindri- Figure 50-6 . The two upper lenses of this figure have the same focal length, but the light rays entering the top lens are parallel, whereas cal lens of a concave type diverges light rays as much as those entering the middle lens are diverging. The effect of parallel a +1- diopter cylindrical lens converges them, it has a versus diverging rays on the focal distance is shown. The bottom lens strength of −1 diopter. If the focused line is horizontal, has far more refractive power than either of the other two lenses (i.e., its axis is said to be 0 degrees. If it is vertical, its axis is it has a much shorter focal length), demonstrating that the stronger 90 degrees. the lens, the nearer to the lens is the focal point. 629 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses A Point sources Focal points B Figure 50- 7. A, Two point sources of light focused at two separate points on opposite sides of the lens. B, Formation of an image by a convex spherical lens. Total refractive power = 59 diopters 1 diopter Image Object 2 diopters Vitreous Lens Aqueous Cornea Air 10 humor 1.40 humor 1.38 1.00 diopters 1.34 1.33 Figure 50- 9. The eye as a camera. The numbers are the refractive indices. 1 meter Figure 50- 8. Effect of lens strength on the focal distance. is considered to exist, with its central point 17 millimeters OPTICS OF THE EYE in front of the retina and a total refractive power of 59 di- opters when the lens is accommodated for distant vision. The lens system of the eye (Figure 50- 9) is composed of About two-thirds of the 59 diopters of refractive power four refractive interfaces: (1) the interface between air of the eye is provided by the anterior surface of the cor- and the anterior surface of the cornea; (2) the interface nea (not by the eye lens). The principal reason for this between the posterior surface of the cornea and the aque- phenomenon is that the refractive index
