Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


(2) the interface nea (not by the eye lens). The principal reason for this between the posterior surface of the cornea and the aque- phenomenon is that the refractive index of the cornea is ous humor; (3) the interface between the aqueous humor markedly different from that of air, whereas the refractive and the anterior surface of the lens of the eye; and (4) the index of the eye lens is not greatly different from the indi- interface between the posterior surface of the lens and the ces of the aqueous humor and vitreous humor. vitreous humor. The internal index of air is 1, the cornea, The total refractive power of the internal lens of the eye, 1.38, the aqueous humor, 1.33, the crystalline lens (on as it normally lies in the eye surrounded by fluid on each average), 1.40, and the vitreous humor, 1.34. side, is only 20 diopters, about one third the total refractive Consideration of All Refractive Surfaces of the Eye as power of the eye. However, the importance of the internal a Single Lens—The “Reduced” Eye. If all the refractive lens is that in response to nervous signals from the brain, its curvature can be increased markedly to provide “accom- surfaces of the eye are added together algebraically and modation,” which is discussed later in the chapter. then considered to be one single lens, the optics of the nor- mal eye may be simplified and represented schematically Formation of an Image on the Retina. In the same man- as a “reduced eye.” This representation is useful in simple ner that a glass lens can focus an image on a sheet of paper, calculations. In the reduced eye, a single refractive surface the lens system of the eye can focus an image on the retina. 630 CHAPTER 50 The Eye: I. Optics of Vision The image is inverted and reversed with respect to the object. Sclerocorneal Cornea junction However, the mind perceives objects in the upright position despite the upside-d own orientation on the retina because Meridional the brain is trained to consider an inverted image as normal. fibers Sclera MECHANISM OF “ACCOMMODATION” In children, the refractive power of the lens of the eye Lens can be increased voluntarily from 20 diopters to about 34 diopters, which is an “accommodation” of 14 diopters. Suspensory Circular To make this accommodation, the shape of the lens is ligaments fibers
