Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


increased voluntarily from 20 diopters to about 34 diopters, which is an “accommodation” of 14 diopters. Suspensory Circular To make this accommodation, the shape of the lens is ligaments fibers changed from that of a moderately convex lens to that of Choroid Retina a very convex lens. In a young person, the lens is composed of a strong elastic capsule filled with viscous, proteinaceous, but transparent fluid. When the lens is in a relaxed state, with Ciliary muscle no tension on its capsule, it assumes an almost spherical shape, owing mainly to the elastic retraction of the lens Suspensory capsule. However, as shown in Figure 50- 10, about 70 Lens ligaments suspensory ligaments attach radially around the lens, pull- ing the lens edges toward the outer circle of the eyeball. These ligaments are constantly tensed by their attach- ments at the anterior border of the choroid and retina. The tension on the ligaments causes the lens to remain Figure 50- 10. Mechanism of accommodation (focusing). relatively flat under normal eye conditions. Also located at the lateral attachments of the lens liga- to keep the object constantly in focus. Sympathetic stimu- ments to the eyeball is the ciliary muscle, which has two lation has an additional effect in relaxing the ciliary muscle, separate sets of smooth muscle fibers—meridional fibers but this effect is so weak that it plays almost no role in the and circular fibers. The meridional fibers extend from the normal accommodation mechanism; the neurophysiology peripheral ends of the suspensory ligaments to the cor- of this mechanism is discussed in Chapter 52. neoscleral junction. When these muscle fibers contract, the peripheral insertions of the lens ligaments are pulled Presbyopia—Loss of Accommodation by the Lens. As medially toward the edges of the cornea, thereby releas- a person grows older, the lens grows larger and thicker ing the ligaments’ tension on the lens. The circular fibers and becomes far less elastic, partly because of progressive are arranged circularly all the way around the ligament denaturation of the lens proteins. The ability of the lens attachments so that when they contract, a sphincter- like to change shape decreases with age. The power of accom- action occurs, decreasing the diameter of the circle of lig- modation decreases from about 14 diopters in a child to ament attachments; this action also allows the ligaments less than 2 diopters by the time a person reaches
