Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of lig- modation decreases from about 14 diopters in a child to ament attachments; this action also allows the ligaments less than 2 diopters by the time a person reaches 45 to 50 to pull less on the lens capsule. years and to essentially 0 diopters at age 70 years. There- Thus, contraction of either set of smooth muscle fibers after, the lens remains almost totally nonaccommodating, in the ciliary muscle relaxes the ligaments to the lens cap- a condition known as presbyopia. sule, and the lens assumes a more spherical shape, like Once a person has reached the state of presbyopia, that of a balloon, because of the natural elasticity of the each eye remains focused permanently at an almost con- lens capsule. stant distance; this distance depends on the physical char- Accommodation Is Controlled by Parasympathetic acteristics of each person’s eyes. The eyes can no longer Nerves. Ciliary muscle is controlled almost entirely by par- accommodate for both near and far vision. To see clearly both in the distance and nearby, an older person must asympathetic nerve signals transmitted to the eye through wear bifocal glasses, with the upper segment focused for the third cranial nerve from the third nerve nucleus in the far- seeing and the lower segment focused for near- seeing brain stem, as explained in Chapter 52. Stimulation of par- (e.g., for reading). asympathetic nerves contracts both sets of ciliary muscle fibers, which relaxes the lens ligaments, thus allowing the PUPILLARY DIAMETER lens to become thicker and increase its refractive power. With this increased refractive power, the eye focuses on The major function of the iris is to increase the amount of objects nearer than when the eye has less refractive power. light that enters the eye during darkness and to decrease Consequently, as a distant object moves toward the eye, the amount of light that enters the eye in daylight. The the number of parasympathetic impulses impinging on the reflexes for controlling this mechanism are considered in ciliary muscle must be progressively increased for the eye Chapter 52. 631 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses The amount of light that enters the eye through the pupil is proportional to the area of the pupil or to the square of the diameter of the pupil. The pupil of the human eye can become as small as about 1.5 millimeters Point
