Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the area of the pupil or to the square of the diameter of the pupil. The pupil of the human eye can become as small as about 1.5 millimeters Point sources of light and as large as 8 millimeters in diameter. The quantity of light entering the eye can change about 30- fold as a result of changes in pupillary aperture. Lens Focal point “Depth of Focus” of the Lens System Increases With Lens Decreasing Pupillary Diameter. Figure 50- 11 shows two eyes that are exactly alike except for the diameters of the pupillary apertures. In the upper eye, the pupillary aper- Point sources of light ture is small and, in the lower eye, the aperture is large. In front of each of these two eyes are two small point sources of light; light from each passes through the pupillary aper- Figure 50- 11. Effect of small (top) and large (bottom) pupillary aper- ture and focuses on the retina. Consequently, in both eyes, tures on depth of focus. the retina sees two spots of light in perfect focus. If the retina is moved forward or backward to an out of focus po- sition (dashed lines), the size of each spot will not change much in the upper eye, but in the lower eye the size of each spot will increase greatly, becoming a “blur circle.” In other words, the upper lens system has far greater depth of focus than the bottom lens system. When a lens system has Emmetropia great depth of focus, the retina can be displaced consider- ably from the focal plane, or the lens strength can change considerably from normal, and the image will still remain nearly in sharp focus, whereas when a lens system has a “shallow” depth of focus, moving the retina only slightly away from the focal plane causes extreme blurring. The greatest possible depth of focus occurs when the Hyperopia pupil is extremely small. The reason for this is that with a very small aperture, almost all the rays pass through the center of the lens, and the central most rays are always in focus, as explained earlier. Errors of Refraction See Video 50-1 . Myopia Emmetropia (Normal Vision). As shown in Figure 50- 12, Figure 50- 12. Parallel light rays focus on the retina in emmetropia, the eye is considered to be normal, or emmetropic, if parallel behind the retina in hyperopia,
