Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


50- 12, Figure 50- 12. Parallel light rays focus on the retina in emmetropia, the eye is considered to be normal, or emmetropic, if parallel behind the retina in hyperopia, and in front of the retina in myopia. light rays from distant objects are in sharp focus on the retina when the ciliary muscle is completely relaxed. This means that the emmetropic eye can see all distant objects clearly closer and closer to the eye can also be focused sharply un- with its ciliary muscle relaxed. However, to focus objects til the ciliary muscle has contracted to its limit. In old age, at close range, the eye must contract its ciliary muscle and when the lens becomes “presbyopic,” a farsighted person is thereby provide an appropriate degree of accommodation. often unable to accommodate the lens sufficiently to focus Hyperopia (Farsightedness). Hyperopia, also known as even on distant objects, much less on near objects. “farsightedness,” is usually due to either an eyeball that is too Myopia (Nearsightedness). In myopia, or “nearsight- short or, occasionally, to a lens system that is too weak. In edness,” when the ciliary muscle is completely relaxed, the this condition, as seen in the middle panel of Figure 50- 12, light rays coming from distant objects are focused in front parallel light rays are not bent sufficiently by the relaxed of the retina, as shown in the bottom panel of Figure 50- 12. lens system to come to focus by the time they reach the This condition is usually due to too long an eyeball but also retina. To overcome this abnormality, the ciliary muscle can result from too much refractive power in the lens sys- must contract to increase the strength of the lens. By us- tem of the eye. ing the mechanism of accommodation, a farsighted person No mechanism exists whereby the eye can decrease the is capable of focusing distant objects on the retina. If the strength of its lens to less than that which exists when the person has used only a small amount of strength in the cili- ciliary muscle is completely relaxed. A myopic person has ary muscle to accommodate for the distant objects, he or no mechanism to focus distant objects sharply on the reti- she still has much accommodative power left, and objects na. However, as an object moves nearer to the person’s eye, 632 CHAPTER 50 The Eye:
