Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


objects sharply on the reti- she still has much accommodative power left, and objects na. However, as an object moves nearer to the person’s eye, 632 CHAPTER 50 The Eye: I. Optics of Vision it finally gets close enough that its image can be focused. Then, when the object comes still closer to the eye, the per- son can use the mechanism of accommodation to keep the image focused clearly. A myopic person has a definite limit- ing “far point” for clear vision. Correction of Myopia and Hyperopia Through Use of Lenses. If the refractive surfaces of the eye have too much refractive power, as in myopia, this excessive refractive power can be neutralized by placing a concave spherical lens in front of the eye, which will diverge rays. Such cor- rection is shown in the upper diagram of Figure 50- 13. Conversely, in a person who has hyperopia—that is, someone who has too weak a lens system—the abnormal vision can be corrected by adding refractive power using a convex lens in front of the eye. This correction is demon- strated in the lower diagram of Figure 50- 13. One usually determines the strength of the concave or Figure 50- 13. Correction of myopia with a concave lens (top) and convex lens needed for clear vision by “trial and error”— correction of hyperopia with a convex lens (bottom). that is, by first trying a strong lens and then a stronger or weaker lens until the one that gives the best visual acuity Point source is found. of light Astigmatism. Astigmatism is a refractive error of the eye that causes the visual image in one plane to focus at A B a different distance from that of the plane at right angles. Astigmatism usually results from too great a curvature of the cornea in one plane of the eye. An example of an astig- C matic lens would be a lens surface like that of an egg lying D sidewise to the incoming light. The degree of curvature in Focal line Plane AC the plane through the long axis of the egg is not nearly as for plane BD Plane BD (less refractive (more refractive power) great as the degree of curvature in the plane through the power) short axis. Focal line Because the curvature of the astigmatic lens along one for plane AC plane is less than the curvature along
