Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


curvature in the plane through the power) short axis. Focal line Because the curvature of the astigmatic lens along one for plane AC plane is less than the curvature along the other plane, light rays striking the peripheral portions of the lens in one plane are not bent nearly as much as the rays striking the periph- Figure 50- 14. Astigmatism, demonstrating that light rays focus at eral portions of the other plane. This effect is demonstrated one focal distance in one focal plane (plane AC) and at another focal distance in the plane at a right angle (plane BD). in Figure 50- 14, which shows rays of light originating from a point source and passing through an oblong, astigmatic lens. The light rays in the vertical plane, indicated by plane the astigmatic lens. Then, an additional cylindrical lens is BD, are refracted greatly by the astigmatic lens because of used to correct the remaining error in the remaining plane. the greater curvature in the vertical direction than in the To do this, both the axis and the strength of the required horizontal direction. By contrast, the light rays in the hori- cylindrical lens must be determined. zontal plane, indicated by plane AC, are not bent nearly as Several methods exist for determining the axis of the much as the light rays in vertical plane BD. Therefore, light abnormal cylindrical component of the lens system of an rays passing through an astigmatic lens do not all come to a eye. One of these methods is based on the use of paral- common focal point because the light rays passing through lel black bars of the type shown in Figure 50- 15. Some of one plane focus far in front of those passing through the these parallel bars are vertical, some are horizontal, and other plane. some are at various angles to the vertical and horizontal The accommodative power of the eye can never com- axes. After placing various spherical lenses in front of the pensate for astigmatism because, during accommodation, astigmatic eye, a strength of lens that causes sharp focus of the curvature of the eye lens changes approximately equally one set of parallel bars but does not correct the fuzziness in both planes; therefore, in astigmatism, each of the two of the set of bars at right angles to the sharp bars is usually planes requires a different degree
