Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fuzziness in both planes; therefore, in astigmatism, each of the two of the set of bars at right angles to the sharp bars is usually planes requires a different degree of accommodation. Thus, found. It can be shown from the physical principles of op- without the aid of glasses, a person with astigmatism never tics discussed earlier in this chapter that the axis of the out sees in sharp focus. of focus cylindrical component of the optical system is par- Correction of Astigmatism With a Cylindrical Lens. One allel to the bars that are fuzzy. Once this axis is found, the may consider an astigmatic eye as having a lens system examiner tries progressively stronger and weaker positive made up of two cylindrical lenses of different strengths and or negative cylindrical lenses, the axes of which are placed placed at right angles to each other. To correct for astigma- in line with the out of focus bars, until the patient sees all tism, the usual procedure is to find a spherical lens by trial the crossed bars with equal clarity. When this goal has been and error that corrects the focus in one of the two planes of accomplished, the examiner directs the optician to grind a 633 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses special lens combining both the spherical correction and When a cataract has obscured light transmission so the cylindrical correction at the appropriate axis. greatly that it seriously impairs vision, the condition can be Correction of Optical Abnormalities With Contact corrected by surgical removal of the lens. When the lens is Lenses. Glass or plastic contact lenses that fit snugly against removed, the eye loses a large portion of its refractive pow- the anterior surface of the cornea can be inserted. These lenses er, which must be replaced by placing a powerful convex are held in place by a thin layer of tear fluid that fills the space lens in front of the eye; usually, however, an artificial plastic between the contact lens and the anterior eye surface. lens is implanted in the eye in place of the removed lens. A special feature of the contact lens is that it nullifies the re- VISUAL ACUITY fraction that normally occurs at the anterior surface of the cor- nea almost entirely. The reason for this nullification is that the Theoretically, light from a distant
