Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


re- VISUAL ACUITY fraction that normally occurs at the anterior surface of the cor- nea almost entirely. The reason for this nullification is that the Theoretically, light from a distant point source, when tears between the contact lens and the cornea have a refractive focused on the retina, should be infinitely small. However, index almost equal to that of the cornea, so the anterior surface because the lens system of the eye is never perfect, such of the cornea no longer plays a significant role in the eye’s opti- a retinal spot ordinarily has a total diameter of about 11 cal system. Instead, the outer surface of the contact lens plays the major role. Thus, the refraction of this surface of the con- micrometers, even with maximal resolution of the normal tact lens substitutes for the cornea’s usual refraction. This factor eye optical system. The spot is brightest in its center and is especially important in people whose eye refractive errors shades off gradually toward the edges, as shown by the are caused by an abnormally shaped cornea, such as those who two- point images in Figure 50- 16. have an odd- shaped, bulging cornea, a condition called kera- The average diameter of the cones in the fovea of the ret- toconus. Without the contact lens, the bulging cornea causes ina—the central part of the retina, where vision is most highly such severe abnormality of vision that almost no glasses can developed—is about 1.5 micrometers, which is one-seventh correct the vision satisfactorily; when a contact lens is used, the diameter of the spot of light. Nevertheless, because the however, the corneal refraction is neutralized, and normal re- spot of light has a bright center point and shaded edges, a fraction by the outer surface of the contact lens is substituted. person can normally distinguish two separate points if their The contact lens has several other advantages as well, centers lie up to 2 micrometers apart on the retina, which is including the following: (1) the lens turns with the eye and gives a broader field of clear vision than glasses; and (2) the slightly greater than the width of a foveal cone. This discrimi- contact lens has little effect on the size of the object the nation between points is also shown in Figure 50- 16. person sees through the lens, whereas lenses placed about 1 The normal visual acuity
