Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the size of the object the nation between points is also shown in Figure 50- 16. person sees through the lens, whereas lenses placed about 1 The normal visual acuity of the human eye for discrim- centimeter in front of the eye do affect the size of the image inating between point sources of light is about 25 seconds in addition to correcting the focus. of arc. That is, when light rays from two separate points Cataracts—Opaque Areas in the Lens. “Cataracts” are strike the eye with an angle of at least 25 seconds between an especially common eye abnormality that occurs mainly them, they can usually be recognized as two points instead in older people. A cataract is a cloudy or opaque area (or of one. This means that a person with normal visual acu- areas) in the lens. In the early stage of cataract formation, ity looking at two bright pinpoint spots of light 10 meters the proteins in some of the lens fibers become denatured. away can barely distinguish the spots as separate entities Later, these same proteins coagulate to form opaque areas when they are 1.5 to 2 millimeters apart. in place of the normal transparent protein fibers. The fovea is less than 0.5 millimeter (<500 microme- ters) in diameter, which means that maximum visual acu- 12 ity occurs in less than 2 degrees of the visual field. Outside 1 1 1 this foveal area, the visual acuity becomes progressively poorer, decreasing more than 10- fold as the periphery is approached. This is caused by the connection of more and more rods and cones to each optic nerve fiber in the non- 0 1 2 foveal, more peripheral parts of the retina, as discussed in Chapter 52. Clinical Method for Stating Visual Acuity. The chart 9 3 for testing eyes usually consists of letters of different siz- es placed 20 feet away from the person being tested. If the person can see well the letters of a size that he or she should be able to see at 20 feet, the person is said to have 4 20/20 vision—that is, normal vision. If the person can see 8 only letters that he or she should be able to see at 200 feet, the person is said to have 20/200 vision. In other words, 7 5 the clinical method for expressing visual acuity is to use a
