Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


able to see at 200 feet, the person is said to have 20/200 vision. In other words, 7 5 the clinical method for expressing visual acuity is to use a mathematical fraction that expresses the ratio of two dis- 6 tances, which is also the ratio of a person’s visual acuity to Figure 50- 15. Chart composed of parallel black bars at different an- that of a person with normal visual acuity. gular orientations for determining the axis of astigmatism. 634 CHAPTER 50 The Eye: I. Optics of Vision Object of known distance and size 1. Size of image 2 µm 1 mm Unknown object 17 mm 10 meters 2. Stereopsis Figure 50- 16. Maximum visual acuity for two point sources of light. Figure 50- 17. Perception of distance by the size of the image on the retina (1) and as a result of stereopsis (2). DETERMINATION OF DISTANCE OF AN OBJECT FROM THE EYE—”DEPTH Figure 50- 17, which shows the images of a red spot and a PERCEPTION” yellow square actually reversed on the two retinas because they are at different distances in front of the eyes. This gives A person normally perceives distance by three main a type of parallax that is always present when both eyes are means: (1) the sizes of the images of known objects on the being used. It is almost entirely this binocular parallax (or ste- retina; (2) the phenomenon of moving parallax; and (3) reopsis) that gives a person with two eyes far greater ability to the phenomenon of stereopsis. This ability to determine judge relative distances when objects are nearby than a person distance is called depth perception. who has only one eye. However, stereopsis is virtually useless Determination of Distance by Sizes of Retinal Images of for depth perception at distances beyond 50 to 200 feet. Known Objects. If one knows that a person being viewed is 6 feet tall, one can determine how far away the person is FLUID SYSTEM OF THE EYE— simply by the size of the person’s image on the retina. One INTRAOCULAR FLUID does not consciously think about the size, but the brain has The eye is filled with intraocular fluid, which maintains learned to calculate automatically from image sizes the dis- tances of objects when the dimensions are known. sufficient pressure in the eyeball to keep it distended. Fig- ure 50- 18 demonstrates that
