Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


calculate automatically from image sizes the dis- tances of objects when the dimensions are known. sufficient pressure in the eyeball to keep it distended. Fig- ure 50- 18 demonstrates that this fluid can be divided into Determination of Distance by Moving Parallax. Anoth- two portions—aqueous humor, which lies in front of the er important means whereby the eyes determine distance lens, and vitreous humor, which is between the posterior is that of moving parallax, a displacement in the apparent surface of the lens and the retina. The aqueous humor is position of an object viewed along two different lines of a freely flowing fluid, whereas the vitreous humor, some- sight. If a person looks off into the distance with the eyes times called the vitreous body, is a gelatinous mass held completely still, he or she perceives no moving parallax, but together by a fine fibrillar network composed primarily when the person moves the head to one side or the other, of greatly elongated proteoglycan molecules. Both water the images of nearby objects move rapidly across the reti- and dissolved substances can diffuse slowly in the vitreous nas, whereas the images of distant objects remain almost humor, but there is little flow of fluid. completely stationary. For example, by moving the head 1 Aqueous humor is continually being formed and reab- inch to the side when the object is only 1 inch in front of the sorbed. The balance between formation and reabsorption eye, the image moves almost all the way across the retinas, of aqueous humor regulates the total volume and pressure whereas the image of an object 200 feet away from the eyes of the intraocular fluid. does not move perceptibly. Thus, by using this mechanism FORMATION OF AQUEOUS HUMOR BY of moving parallax, one can tell the relative distances of dif- ferent objects even though only one eye is used. THE CILIARY BODY Determination of Distance by Stereopsis—Binocular Aqueous humor is formed in the eye at an average rate Vision. Another method whereby one perceives parallax is of 2 to 3 μL/min. Essentially all of it is secreted by the that of binocular vision. Because one eye is a little more than ciliary processes, which are linear folds projecting from 2 inches to one side of the other eye, the images on the two the ciliary body into the space behind the iris where the retinas are
