Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


folds projecting from 2 inches to one side of the other eye, the images on the two the ciliary body into the space behind the iris where the retinas are different from each other. For example, an object 1 lens ligaments and ciliary muscle attach to the eyeball. A inch in front of the nose forms an image on the left side of the cross section of these ciliary processes is shown in Fig- retina of the left eye but on the right side of the retina of the ure 50-1 9, and their relation to the fluid chambers of right eye, whereas a small object 20 feet in front of the nose the eye can be seen in Figure 50-1 8. Because of their has its image at closely corresponding points in the centers folded architecture, the total surface area of the ciliary of the two retinas. This type of parallax is demonstrated in processes is about 6 square centimeters in each eye—a 635 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses Aqueous humor Iris Flow of fluid Formation Spaces of Fontana Cornea of aqueous Canal of Schlemm humor Ciliary body Lens Canal of Schlemm Vitreous Trabeculae Diffusion of humor fluid and other Aqueous veins constituents Iris Blood veins Filtration and diffusion at Sclera retinal vessels Figure 50- 20. Anatomy of the iridocorneal angle showing the sys- tem for outflow of aqueous humor from the eyeball into the con- Optic nerve junctival veins. Figure 50- 18. Formation and flow of fluid in the eye. OUTFLOW OF AQUEOUS HUMOR FROM THE EYE Ciliary processes Formation of aqueous After aqueous humor is formed by the ciliary processes, it humor first flows, as shown in Figure 50- 18, through the pupil into the anterior chamber of the eye. From here, the fluid flows anterior to the lens and into the angle between the cornea and the iris, then through a meshwork of trabeculae, and finally entering the canal of Schlemm, which empties into extra- ocular veins. Figure 50- 20 demonstrates the anatomical structures at this iridocorneal angle, showing that the spaces between the trabeculae extend all the way from the anterior chamber to the canal of Schlemm. The canal of Schlemm is a thin- walled vein that extends circumferentially all the way around the eye. Its endothelial membrane is so porous that even large protein molecules, as well as
