Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


of Schlemm is a thin- walled vein that extends circumferentially all the way around the eye. Its endothelial membrane is so porous that even large protein molecules, as well as small particulate mat- ter up to the size of red blood cells, can pass from the anterior Ciliary muscle Vascular layer chamber into the canal of Schlemm. Even though the canal of Figure 50- 19. Anatomy of the ciliary processes. Aqueous humor is Schlemm is actually a venous blood vessel, so much aqueous formed on surfaces. humor normally flows into it that it is filled only with aqueous humor rather than with blood. The small veins that lead from the canal of Schlemm to the larger veins of the eye usually large area, considering the small size of the ciliary body. contain only aqueous humor; they are called aqueous veins. The surfaces of these processes are covered by highly INTRAOCULAR PRESSURE secretory epithelial cells, and immediately beneath them is a highly vascular area. The average normal intraocular pressure is about 15 mm Aqueous humor is formed almost entirely as an active Hg, with a range from 12 to 20 mm Hg. secretion by the epithelium of the ciliary processes. Secre- tion begins with active transport of sodium ions into the Measuring Intraocular Pressure by Tonometry. spaces between the epithelial cells. The sodium ions pull Because it is impractical to pass a needle into a patient’s eye chloride and bicarbonate ions along with them to main- to measure intraocular pressure, this pressure is measured tain electrical neutrality. Then, all these ions together clinically by using a “tonometer,” the principle of which cause osmosis of water from the blood capillaries lying is shown in Figure 50- 21. The cornea of the eye is anes- below into the same epithelial intercellular spaces; the thetized with a local anesthetic, and the footplate of the resulting solution washes from the spaces of the ciliary tonometer is placed on the cornea. A small force is then processes into the anterior chamber of the eye. In addi- applied to a central plunger, causing the part of the cornea tion, several nutrients are transported across the epithe- beneath the plunger to be displaced inward. The amount lium by active transport or facilitated diffusion, including of displacement is recorded on the scale of the tonometer, amino acids, ascorbic acid, and glucose. and this is calibrated in terms of intraocular
