Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


active transport or facilitated diffusion, including of displacement is recorded on the scale of the tonometer, amino acids, ascorbic acid, and glucose. and this is calibrated in terms of intraocular pressure. 636 CHAPTER 50 The Eye: I. Optics of Vision Pressure applied maintained for long periods. Extremely high pressures can cause blindness within days or even hours. As the pressure rises, the axons of the optic nerve are compressed where they leave the eyeball at the optic disc. This compression is believed to block axonal flow of cytoplasm from the retinal Central plunger neuronal cell bodies into the optic nerve fibers leading to the brain. The result is lack of appropriate nutrition of the fibers, which eventually causes death of the involved fibers. It is possible that compression of the retinal artery, which enters the eyeball at the optic disc, also adds to the neu- ronal damage by reducing nutrition to the retina. In most cases of glaucoma, the abnormally high pressure results from increased resistance to fluid outflow through Footplate the trabecular spaces into the canal of Schlemm at the iri- docorneal junction. For example, in acute eye inflammation, white blood cells and tissue debris can block these trabecular spaces and cause an acute increase in intraocular pressure. In chronic conditions, especially in older persons, fibrous occlu- Intraocular pressure sion of the trabecular spaces appears to be the likely culprit. Figure 50- 21. Principles of the tonometer. Glaucoma can sometimes be treated by placing drops in the eye that contain a drug that diffuses into the eyeball and Regulation of Intraocular Pressure. Intraocular pres- reduces the secretion or increases the absorption of aque- sure remains constant in the normal eye, usually within ±2 ous humor. When drug therapy fails, operative techniques mm Hg of its normal level, which averages about 15 mm to open the spaces of the trabeculae or make channels to al- Hg. The level of this pressure is determined mainly by the low fluid to flow directly from the fluid space of the eyeball resistance to outflow of aqueous humor from the anterior into the subconjunctival space outside the eyeball can often chamber into the canal of Schlemm. This outflow resist- reduce the pressure effectively. ance results from the meshwork of trabeculae through which the fluid must percolate on its way from the lateral Bibliography angles of the anterior chamber to the wall of the canal
