Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


into optic nerve fibers (7) inner plexiform layer; (8) ganglionic layer; (9) layer of and the cerebral cortex. In this chapter, we explain the optic nerve fibers; and (10) inner limiting membrane. mechanisms whereby the rods and cones detect light and After light passes through the lens system of the eye and color and convert the visual image into optic nerve signals. then through the vitreous humor, it enters the retina from the inside of the eye (see Figure 51- 1); that is, it passes first ANATOMY AND FUNCTION OF THE through the ganglion cells and then through the plexiform STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS OF THE and nuclear layers before it finally reaches the layer of rods RETINA and cones located all the way on the outer edge of the ret- ina. This distance is a thickness of several hundred microm- The Retina Is Composed of Ten Layers or Boundaries. eters; visual acuity is decreased by this passage through Figure 51- 1 shows the functional components of the such nonhomogeneous tissue. However, in the central Pigmented layer Photoreceptor layer Rod Cone Cone Outer limiting membrane Outer nuclear layer Distal Outer plexiform layer Vertical Horizontal cell pathway Bipolar Bipolar Lateral pathway Inner nuclear cell cell Amacrine layer cell Amacrine cell Proximal Inner plexiform layer Ganglion cell Ganglion cell layer To optic nerve Stratum opticum Inner limiting membrane DIRECTION OF LIGHT Figure 51- 1. Layers of the retina. 639 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses Path of light Cornea Lens Membrane shelves Outer segment lined with rhodopsin or color pigment Vitreous Mitochondria Inner segment Retina Outer limiting membrane Optic nerve Nucleus Fovea Vitreous Ganglion cell Bipolar cell Synaptic body Figure 51- 3. Schematic drawing of the functional parts of the rods and cones. rower and longer than the cones, but this is not always the case. In the peripheral portions of the retina, the rods are 2 Pigmented layer Cone Rod to 5 micrometers in diameter, whereas the cones are 5 to 8 micrometers in diameter; in the central part of the retina, Figure 51- 2. Projection of light to the photoreceptors (cones) in the retina. Note that in the foveal region the photoreceptors are entirely in the fovea, there are no rods, and the cones are slender cones and that neuronal cells are all displaced to one side, allowing and have a diameter of only 1.5 micrometers. light
