Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


there are no rods, and the cones are slender cones and that neuronal cells are all displaced to one side, allowing and have a diameter of only 1.5 micrometers. light to pass unimpeded to the cones. The major functional segments of either a rod or cone are shown in Figure 51- 3: (1) the outer segment; (2) the inner segment; (3) the nucleus; and (4) the synaptic body. foveal region of the retina, as discussed subsequently, the The light- sensitive photochemical is found in the outer inside layers are pulled aside to decrease this loss of acuity. segment. In the case of the rods, this photochemical is rhodopsin; in the cones, it is one of three “color” pho- Foveal Region of the Retina and Its Importance in Acute tochemicals, usually called simply color pigments, that Vision. The fovea is a minute area in the center of the retina, function almost exactly the same as rhodopsin except for shown in Figure 51- 2; it occupies a total area a little more differences in spectral sensitivity. than 1 square millimeter. It is especially capable of acute and In the outer segments of the rods and cones in Figures detailed vision. The central fovea, only 0.3 millimeter in di- 51- 3 and 51- 4, note the large numbers of discs. Each disc ameter, is composed almost entirely of cones. These cones is actually an infolded shelf of cell membrane. There are as have a special structure that aids their detection of detail in many as 1000 discs in each rod or cone. the visual image—that is, the foveal cones have especially Both rhodopsin and the color pigments are conjugated long and slender bodies, in contradistinction to the much proteins. They are incorporated into the membranes of fatter cones located more peripherally in the retina. Also, the discs in the form of transmembrane proteins. The in the foveal region, the blood vessels, ganglion cells, inner concentrations of these photosensitive pigments in the nuclear layer of cells, and plexiform layers are all displaced discs are so great that the pigments themselves constitute to one side rather than resting directly on top of the cones, about 40% of the entire mass of the outer segment. which allows light to pass unimpeded to the cones. The inner segment of the rod or cone contains the usual cytoplasm, with cytoplasmic organelles. Especially Rods and Cones Are Essential Components
