Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


allows light to pass unimpeded to the cones. The inner segment of the rod or cone contains the usual cytoplasm, with cytoplasmic organelles. Especially Rods and Cones Are Essential Components of Photo- important are the mitochondria, which, as explained later, receptors. Figure 51- 3 is a diagrammatic representation play the important role of providing energy for function of the essential components of a photoreceptor (either a of the photoreceptors. rod or a cone). As shown in Figure 51- 4, the outer segment The synaptic body is the portion of the rod or cone that of the cone is conical in shape. In general, the rods are nar- connects with subsequent neuronal cells, the horizontal 640 CHAPTER 51 The Eye: II. Receptor and Neural Function of the Retina surface. Thus, the inner layers of the retina have their own blood supply, independent of the other structures of the eye. However, the outermost layer of the retina is adherent to the choroid, which is also a highly vascular tissue lying between the retina and the sclera. The outer layers of the retina, especially the outer segments of the rods and cones, depend mainly on diffusion from the choroid blood vessels for their nutrition, especially for their oxygen. Retinal Detachment. The neural retina occasionally de- taches from the pigment epithelium. In some cases, the cause of such detachment is injury to the eyeball that allows fluid or blood to collect between the neural retina and the pigment epithelium. Detachment is occasionally caused by contrac- ture of fine collagenous fibrils in the vitreous humor, which pull areas of the retina toward the interior of the globe. Partly because of diffusion across the detachment gap, and partly because of the independent blood supply to the neural retina through the retinal artery, the detached retina can resist degeneration for days and can become functional Figure 51- 4. Membranous structures of the outer segments of a rod again if it is surgically replaced in its normal relation with (left) and a cone (right). (Courtesy Dr. Richard Young.) the pigment epithelium. If it is not replaced soon, however, the retina will be destroyed and will be unable to function, even after surgical repair. and bipolar cells, which represent the next stages in the vision chain. PHOTOCHEMISTRY OF VISION Pigment Layer of the Retina. The black pigment mela- Both rods and cones contain chemicals that decompose on nin in
