Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the next stages in the vision chain. PHOTOCHEMISTRY OF VISION Pigment Layer of the Retina. The black pigment mela- Both rods and cones contain chemicals that decompose on nin in the pigment layer prevents light reflection through- exposure to light and, in the process, excite the nerve fibers out the globe of the eyeball, which is extremely important leading from the eye. The light- sensitive chemical in the for clear vision. This pigment performs the same function rods is called rhodopsin; the light- sensitive chemicals in the in the eye as the black coloring inside the bellows of a cones, called cone pigments or color pigments, have compo- camera. Without it, light rays would be reflected in all di- sitions only slightly different from that of rhodopsin. rections in the eyeball and would cause diffuse lighting of In this section, we discuss principally the photochem- the retina rather than the normal contrast between dark istry of rhodopsin, but the same principles can be applied and light spots required to form precise images. to the cone pigments. The importance of melanin in the pigment layer is well illustrated by its absence in people with albinism (congen- ital absence of melanin pigment in all parts of their bod- RHODOPSIN- RETINAL VISUAL CYCLE AND ies). When a person with albinism enters a bright room, EXCITATION OF THE RODS light that impinges on the retina is reflected in all direc- tions inside the eyeball by the unpigmented surfaces of Rhodopsin and Its Decomposition by Light Energy. the retina and by the underlying sclera, so a single discrete The outer segment of the rod that projects into the pigment spot of light that would normally excite only a few rods or layer of the retina has a concentration of about 40% of the cones is reflected everywhere and excites many receptors. light- sensitive pigment called rhodopsin, or visual purple. Therefore, the visual acuity of people with albinism, even This substance is a combination of the protein scotopsin with the best optical correction, is seldom better than and the carotenoid pigment retinal (also called “retinene”). 20/100 to 20/200 rather than the normal 20/20 values. Furthermore, the retinal is a particular type called 11-c is The pigment layer also stores large quantities of retinal. This cis form of retinal is important because only vitamin A. This vitamin A is exchanged back and forth this form can bind
