Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


layer also stores large quantities of retinal. This cis form of retinal is important because only vitamin A. This vitamin A is exchanged back and forth this form can bind with scotopsin to synthesize rhodopsin. through the cell membranes of the outer segments of the When light energy is absorbed by rhodopsin, the rho- rods and cones, which are embedded in the pigment. We dopsin begins to decompose within a very small fraction discuss later that vitamin A is an important precursor of of a second, as shown at the top of Figure 51- 5. The cause the photosensitive chemicals of the rods and cones. of this rapid decomposition is photoactivation of elec- trons in the retinal portion of the rhodopsin, which leads Blood Supply of the Retina—The Central Retinal Artery to instantaneous change of the cis form of retinal into an and the Choroid. The nutrient blood supply for the internal all-t rans form that has the same chemical structure as the layers of the retina is derived from the central retinal artery, cis form but a different physical structure—it is a straight which enters the eyeball through the center of the optic molecule rather than an angulated molecule. Because the nerve and then divides to supply the entire inside retinal three- dimensional orientation of the reactive sites of the 641 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses Vitamin A is present both in the cytoplasm of the rods Light energy and in the pigment layer of the retina. Therefore, vitamin Rhodopsin Bathorhodopsin A is normally always available to form new retinal when (psec) (nsec) needed. Conversely, when there is excess retinal in the Lumirhodopsin retina, it is converted back into vitamin A, thus reducing (µsec) the amount of light- sensitive pigment in the retina. We shall see later that this interconversion between retinal (minutes) Metarhodopsin I and vitamin A is especially important in long- term adap- (msec) tation of the retina to different light intensities. Metarhodopsin II Night Blindness Due to Vitamin A Deficiency. Night (sec) blindness occurs in persons with severe vitamin A defi- ciency because, without vitamin A, the amounts of retinal Scotopsin and rhodopsin that can be formed are severely depressed. This condition is called night blindness because the amount Isomerase of light available at night is too little to permit adequate vi- 11-cis retinal All-trans retinal sion in vitamin A–deficient
