Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This condition is called night blindness because the amount Isomerase of light available at night is too little to permit adequate vi- 11-cis retinal All-trans retinal sion in vitamin A–deficient persons. For night blindness to occur, a person usually must re- Isomerase 11-cis retinol All-trans retinol main on a vitamin A–deficient diet for months, because (Vitamin A) large quantities of vitamin A are normally stored in the liver and can be made available to the eyes. Once night blindness Figure 51- 5. The rhodopsin-r etinal visual cycle in the rod, showing develops, it can sometimes be reversed in less than 1 hour decomposition of rhodopsin during exposure to light and subsequent by intravenous injection of vitamin A. slow re- formation of rhodopsin by the chemical processes. Excitation of the Rod When Rhodopsin Is all-t rans retinal no longer fits with the orientation of the Activated by Light reactive sites on the protein scotopsin, the all-t rans retinal begins to pull away from the scotopsin. The immediate The Rod Receptor Hyperpolarizes in Response to product is bathorhodopsin, which is a partially split com- Light. Exposure of the rod to light causes increased nega- bination of the all-t rans retinal and scotopsin. Bathorho- tivity of the intrarod membrane potential, which is a state dopsin is extremely unstable and decays in nanoseconds of hyperpolarization. This is exactly opposite to the de- to lumirhodopsin. This product then decays in microsec- creased negativity (the process of “depolarization”) that onds to metarhodopsin I, then in about a millisecond to occurs in almost all other sensory receptors. metarhodopsin II, and finally, much more slowly (in sec- How does activation of rhodopsin cause hyperpolar- onds), into the completely split products scotopsin and all- ization? The answer is that when rhodopsin decomposes, it trans retinal. decreases the rod membrane conductance for sodium ions It is the metarhodopsin II, also called activated rho- in the outer segment of the rod causing hyperpolarization. dopsin, that excites electrical changes in the rods, and the Figure 51- 6 shows movement of sodium and potas- rods then transmit the visual image into the central ner- sium ions in a complete electrical circuit through the vous system in the form of optic nerve action potentials, inner and outer segments of the rod. The inner segment as we discuss later. continually pumps sodium from inside the rod to the out- side, and potassium ions are pumped
