Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


inner and outer segments of the rod. The inner segment as we discuss later. continually pumps sodium from inside the rod to the out- side, and potassium ions are pumped to the inside of the Re- Formation of Rhodopsin. The first stage in re- cell. Potassium ions leak out of the cell through nongated formation of rhodopsin, as shown in Figure 51- 5, is to potassium channels that are confined to the inner segment reconvert the all- trans retinal into 11- cis retinal. This pro- of the rod. As in other cells, this sodium- potassium pump cess requires metabolic energy and is catalyzed by the en- creates a negative potential on the inside of the entire cell. zyme retinal isomerase. Once the 11- cis retinal is formed, However, the outer segment of the rod, where the pho- it automatically recombines with the scotopsin to re- form toreceptor discs are located, is entirely different. Here, rhodopsin, which then remains stable until its decompo- the rod membrane, in the dark state, is leaky to sodium sition is again triggered by absorption of light energy. ions that flow through cyclic guanosine monophosphate Role of Vitamin A for Formation of Rhodopsin. Note (cGMP)–gated channels. In the dark state, cGMP levels in Figure 51- 5 that there is a second chemical route are high, permitting positively charged sodium ions to whereby all- trans retinal can be converted into 11- cis continually leak back to the inside of the rod and thereby retinal. This second route is by conversion of the all- trans neutralize much of the negativity on the inside of the retinal first into all- trans retinol, which is one form of vi- entire cell. Thus, under normal dark conditions, when the tamin A. Then, the all-t rans retinol is converted into 11- rod is not excited, there is reduced electronegativity inside cis retinol under the influence of the enzyme isomerase. the membrane of the rod, measuring about −40 millivolts Finally, the 11-c is retinol is converted into 11-c is retinal, rather than the usual −70 to −80 millivolts found in most which combines with scotopsin to form new rhodopsin. sensory receptors. 642 CHAPTER 51 The Eye: II. Receptor and Neural Function of the Retina AA cGMP-gated channels Outer segment membrane Rhodopsin G-Protein cGMP Transducin Phosphodiesterase Current flow Light Na+ 5′-GMP cGMP cGMP gated sodium channel K+ selective Na+ channels ATP K+ Figure 51-
