Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Retina AA cGMP-gated channels Outer segment membrane Rhodopsin G-Protein cGMP Transducin Phosphodiesterase Current flow Light Na+ 5′-GMP cGMP cGMP gated sodium channel K+ selective Na+ channels ATP K+ Figure 51- 7. Phototransduction in the outer segment of the photo- receptor (rod or cone) membrane. When light hits the photoreceptor (e.g., a rod cell), the light- absorbing retinal portion of rhodopsin is ac- tivated. This activation stimulates transducin, a G protein, which then activates cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) phosphodiester- ase. This enzyme catalyzes the degradation of cGMP into 5′- GMP. The reduction in cGMP then causes closure of the sodium channels, which, in turn, causes hyperpolarization of the photoreceptor. BB Dark Light of the inner segment. Thus, more sodium ions now leave the rod than leak back in. Because they are positive ions, their loss from inside the rod creates increased negativity Na+ Na+ inside the membrane, and the greater the amount of light energy striking the rod, the greater the electronegativity becomes—that is, the greater is the degree of hyperpo- larization. At maximum light intensity, the membrane potential approaches −70 to −80 millivolts, which is near High (cGMP), Low (cGMP), the equilibrium potential for potassium ions across the open channels closed channels membrane. Figure 51- 6. A, Sodium flows into a photoreceptor (e.g., a rod) Duration of the Receptor Potential, and Logarithmic through cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)–gated channels. Relation of the Receptor Potential to Light Intensity. Potassium flows out of the cell through nongated potassium chan- nels. A sodium- potassium pump maintains steady levels of sodium When a sudden pulse of light strikes the retina, the tran- and potassium inside the cell. B, In the dark, cGMP levels are high, sient hyperpolarization (receptor potential) that occurs and the sodium channels are open. In the light, cGMP levels are re- in the rods reaches a peak in about 0.3 second and lasts duced and the sodium channels close, causing the cell to hyperpolar- for more than 1 second. In cones, the change occurs four ize. ATP, Adenosine triphosphate. times as fast as in the rods. A visual image impinged on the rods of the retina for only one-millionth of a second When the rhodopsin in the outer segment of the rod can sometimes cause the sensation of seeing the image for is exposed to light, it is activated and begins to decom- longer than 1 second. pose. The cGMP- gated sodium
