Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


can sometimes cause the sensation of seeing the image for is exposed to light, it is activated and begins to decom- longer than 1 second. pose. The cGMP- gated sodium channels are then closed, Another characteristic of the receptor potential is that and the outer segment membrane conductance of sodium it is approximately proportional to the logarithm of the to the interior of the rod is reduced by a three- step pro- light intensity. This characteristic is exceedingly impor- cess (Figure 51- 7): (1) light is absorbed by the rhodop- tant because it allows the eye to discriminate light inten- sin, causing photoactivation of the electrons in the retinal sities through a range many thousand times as great as portion, as previously described; (2) the activated rho- would be possible otherwise. dopsin stimulates a G protein called transducin, which then activates cGMP phosphodiesterase, an enzyme that Mechanism Whereby Rhodopsin Decomposition De- catalyzes the breakdown of cGMP to 5′- GMP; and (3) the creases Membrane Sodium Conductance—The Ex- reduction in cGMP closes the cGMP- gated sodium chan- citation “Cascade.” Under optimal conditions, a single nels and reduces the inward sodium current. Sodium ions photon of light, the smallest possible quantal unit of light continue to be pumped outward through the membrane energy, can cause a receptor potential of about 1 millivolt in 643 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses a rod. Only 30 photons of light will cause half- saturation of Blue Green Red cone Rods cone cone the rod. How can such a small amount of light cause such 100 great excitation? The answer is that the photoreceptors have an extremely sensitive chemical cascade that ampli- 75 fies the stimulatory effects about a millionfold, as follows: 1. The photon activates an electron in the 11- cis retinal 50 portion of the rhodopsin; this activation leads to the formation of metarhodopsin II, which is the active 25 form of rhodopsin, as shown in Figure 51- 5. 2. The activated rhodopsin functions as an enzyme to 0 activate many molecules of transducin, a protein 400 500 600 700 Wavelength (nanometers) present in an inactive form in the membranes of the discs and cell membrane of the rod. Violet Blue Green Yellow Orange Red 3. The activated transducin activates many more mol- Figure 51-8 . Light absorption by the pigment of the rods and by ecules of phosphodiesterase.
