Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Violet Blue Green Yellow Orange Red 3. The activated transducin activates many more mol- Figure 51-8 . Light absorption by the pigment of the rods and by ecules of phosphodiesterase. the pigments of the three color- receptive cones of the human retina. (Data from Marks WB, Dobelle WH, MacNichol EF Jr: Visual pig- 4. Activated phosphodiesterase immediately hydrolyzes ments of single primate cones. Science 143:1181, 1964; and Brown many molecules of cGMP, thus destroying it. Before PK, Wald G: Visual pigments in single rods and cones of the human being destroyed, the cGMP had been bound with the retina: direct measurements reveal mechanisms of human night and sodium channel protein of the rod’s outer membrane color vision. Science 144:45, 1964.) in a way that “splints” it in the open state. However, in light, hydrolyzation of the cGMP by phosphodies- pigment, green- sensitive pigment, and red- sensitive pig- terase removes the splinting and allows the sodium ment. The absorption characteristics of the pigments in channels to close. Several hundred channels close for the three types of cones show peak absorbencies at light each originally activated molecule of rhodopsin. Be- wavelengths of 445, 535, and 570 nanometers, respectively. cause the sodium flux through each of these channels These wavelengths are also the wavelengths for peak light has been extremely rapid, flow of more than 1 million sensitivity for each type of cone, which begins to explain sodium ions is blocked by the channel closure before how the retina differentiates the colors. The approximate the channel opens again. This diminution of sodium absorption curves for these three pigments are shown in ion flow is what excites the rod, as already discussed. Figure 51- 8. Also shown is the absorption curve for the 5. Within about 1 second, another enzyme, rhodopsin rhodopsin of the rods, with a peak at 505 nanometers. kinase, which is always present in the rod, inacti- vates the activated rhodopsin (metarhodopsin II), AUTOMATIC REGULATION OF RETINAL and the entire cascade reverses back to the normal SENSITIVITY—LIGHT AND DARK state with open sodium channels. ADAPTATION Thus, the rods have developed an important chemi- cal cascade that amplifies the effect of a single photon of If a person has been in bright light for hours, large por- light to cause movement of millions of sodium ions. This tions of the photochemicals in both the rods and the cones mechanism explains the extreme
