Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


light for hours, large por- light to cause movement of millions of sodium ions. This tions of the photochemicals in both the rods and the cones mechanism explains the extreme sensitivity of the rods will have been reduced to retinal and opsins. Furthermore, under dark conditions. much of the retinal of both the rods and the cones will The cones are about 30 to 300 times less sensitive than the have been converted into vitamin A. Because of these two rods, but even this degree of sensitivity allows color vision effects, the concentrations of the photosensitive chemicals at any intensity of light greater than extremely dim twilight. remaining in the rods and cones are considerably reduced, and the sensitivity of the eye to light is correspondingly Photochemistry of Color Vision by the reduced. This process is called light adaptation. Cones Conversely, if a person remains in darkness for a long We previously pointed out that the photochemicals in the time, the retinal and opsins in the rods and cones are con- cones have almost exactly the same chemical composition verted back into the light- sensitive pigments. Furthermore, as that of rhodopsin in the rods. The only difference is that vitamin A is converted back into retinal to increase light- the protein portions, or the opsins—called photopsins in the sensitive pigments, the final limit being determined by the cones—are slightly different from the scotopsin of the rods. amount of opsins in the rods and cones to combine with the The retinal portion of all the visual pigments is exactly the retinal. This process is called dark adaptation. same in the cones and rods. The color- sensitive pigments of the Figure 51- 9 shows the course of dark adaptation when cones, therefore, are combinations of retinal and photopsins. a person is exposed to total darkness after having been Only one of three types of color pigments is present in exposed to bright light for several hours. Note that the each of the different cones, thus making the cones selec- sensitivity of the retina is very low on first entering the tively sensitive to different colors—blue, green, or red. darkness, but within 1 minute, the sensitivity has already These color pigments are called, respectively, blue- sensitive increased 10- fold—that is, the retina can respond to light 644 noitprosba thgiL )mumixam fo tnecrep( CHAPTER 51 The Eye: II. Receptor and Neural Function of the
