Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


respectively, blue- sensitive increased 10- fold—that is, the retina can respond to light 644 noitprosba thgiL )mumixam fo tnecrep( CHAPTER 51 The Eye: II. Receptor and Neural Function of the Retina 100,000 Value of Light and Dark Adaptation in Vision. Be- tween the limits of maximal dark adaptation and maximal light adaptation, the eye can change its sensitivity to light 10,000 as much as 500,000 to 1 million times, with the sensitivity automatically adjusting to changes in illumination. 1000 Because registration of images by the retina requires Rod adaptation detection of both dark and light spots in the image, it is essential that the sensitivity of the retina always be 100 adjusted so that the receptors respond to the lighter areas but not to the darker areas. An example of maladjust- 10 ment of retinal adaptation occurs when a person leaves a Cone adaptation movie theater and enters the bright sunlight. Then, even the dark spots in the images seem exceedingly bright, and 1 as a consequence, the entire visual image is bleached, with 0 10 20 30 40 50 Minutes in dark little contrast among its different parts. This poor vision remains until the retina has adapted sufficiently so that Figure 51-9 . Dark adaptation demonstrating the relation of cone adaptation to rod adaptation. the darker areas of the image no longer stimulate the receptors excessively. Conversely, when a person first enters darkness, the of one- tenth that of the previously required intensity. At sensitivity of the retina is usually so slight that even the the end of 20 minutes, the sensitivity has increased about light spots in the image cannot excite the retina. After 6000- fold and, at the end of 40 minutes, it has increased dark adaptation, the light spots begin to register. As an about 25,000- fold. example of the extremes of light and dark adaptation, the The resulting curve of Figure 51- 9 is called the dark intensity of sunlight is about 10 billion times that of star- adaptation curve. Note the inflection in the curve. The light, yet the eye can function both in bright sunlight after early portion of the curve is caused by adaptation of the light adaptation and in starlight after dark adaptation. cones because all the chemical events of vision, includ- ing adaptation, occur about four times as rapidly in cones COLOR VISION as in rods. However, the cones do
