Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


dark adaptation. cones because all the chemical events of vision, includ- ing adaptation, occur about four times as rapidly in cones COLOR VISION as in rods. However, the cones do not achieve anywhere near the same degree of sensitivity change in darkness as From the preceding sections, we learned that different the rods. Therefore, despite rapid adaptation, the cones cones are sensitive to different colors of light. This sec- cease adapting after only a few minutes, whereas the tion is a discussion of the mechanisms whereby the ret- slowly adapting rods continue to adapt for many minutes ina detects the different gradations of color in the visual and even hours, with their sensitivity increasing tremen- spectrum. dously. Additional sensitivity of the rods is caused by neu- TRICOLOR MECHANISM OF COLOR ronal signal convergence of 100 or more rods onto a single DETECTION ganglion cell in the retina; these rods summate to increase their sensitivity, as discussed later in the chapter. All theories of color vision are based on the well- known Other Mechanisms of Light and Dark Adaptation. In observation that the human eye can detect almost all gra- addition to adaptation caused by changes in concentra- dations of colors when only red, green, and blue mono- tions of rhodopsin or color photochemicals, the eye has chromatic lights are appropriately mixed in different two other mechanisms for light and dark adaptation. The combinations. first is a change in pupillary size, as discussed in Chapter 50. This change can cause adaptation of approximately 30- Spectral Sensitivities of the Three Types of Cones. On fold within a fraction of a second because of changes in the the basis of color vision tests, the spectral sensitivities of amount of light allowed through the pupillary opening. the three types of cones in humans have proved to be es- The other mechanism is neural adaptation, involving sentially the same as the light absorption curves for the the neurons in the successive stages of the visual chain in three types of pigment found in the cones. These curves the retina and in the brain. That is, when light intensity are shown in Figure 51- 8 and slightly differently in Fig- first increases, the signals transmitted by the bipolar cells, ure 51- 10. They can explain most of the phenomena of horizontal cells, amacrine cells, and ganglion cells are all color vision. intense. However, most of these
