Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


the bipolar cells, ure 51- 10. They can explain most of the phenomena of horizontal cells, amacrine cells, and ganglion cells are all color vision. intense. However, most of these signals decrease rapidly at different stages of transmission in the neural circuit. Al- Interpretation of Color in the Nervous System. In Fig- though the degree of adaptation is only a fewfold rather ure 51- 10, one can see that an orange monochromatic than the many thousandfold that occurs during adaptation light with a wavelength of 580 nanometers stimulates the of the photochemical system, neural adaptation occurs in red cones to a value of about 99 (99% of the peak stimu- a fraction of a second, in contrast to the many minutes to lation at optimum wavelength); it stimulates the green hours required for full adaptation by the photochemicals. cones to a value of about 42, but the blue cones are not 645 ytivitisnes laniteR UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses Blue Green Red Red- green color blindness is a genetic disorder that oc- cone cone cone 100 97 99 curs almost exclusively in males. That is, genes in the fe- male X chromosome code for the respective cones. Yet, 83 83 color blindness almost never occurs in females because at 75 least one of the two X chromosomes almost always has a 67 normal gene for each type of cone. Because the male has 50 42 only one X chromosome, a missing gene can lead to color 36 blindness. 31 25 Because the X chromosome in the male is always inher- ited from the mother, never from the father, color blindness 0 0 is passed from mother to son, and the mother is said to be 400 500 600 700 a color blindness carrier. About 8% of all women are color Wavelength (nanometers) blindness carriers. Violet Blue Green Yellow Orange Red Blue Weakness. Only rarely are blue cones missing, al- though sometimes they are underrepresented in a geneti- Figure 51- 10. Demonstration of the degree of stimulation of the dif- ferent color-s ensitive cones by monochromatic lights of four colors— cally inherited condition called blue weakness. blue, green, yellow, and orange. Color Test Charts. A rapid method for determining color blindness is based on the use of spot charts such as those shown in Figure 51-1 1. These charts are arranged stimulated at all. Thus,
