Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


rapid method for determining color blindness is based on the use of spot charts such as those shown in Figure 51-1 1. These charts are arranged stimulated at all. Thus, the ratios of stimulation of the with a mixture of spots of several different colors. In the three types of cones in this case are 99:42:0. The nerv- top chart, a person with normal color vision reads “74,” ous system interprets this set of ratios as the sensation whereas a red- green color- blind person reads “21.” In the of orange. Conversely, a monochromatic blue light with a bottom chart, a person with normal color vision reads wavelength of 450 nanometers stimulates the red cones to “42,” whereas a red- blind person reads “2,” and a green- blind person reads “4.” a stimulus value of 0, the green cones to a value of 0, and the blue cones to a value of 97. This set of ratios—0:0:97— NEURAL FUNCTION OF THE RETINA is interpreted by the nervous system as blue. Likewise, ratios of 83:83:0 are interpreted as yellow, and ratios of Figure 51-1 2 presents the essentials of the retina’s 31:67:36 are interpreted as green. neural connections, showing the circuit in the periph- Perception of White Light. About equal stimulation of eral retina at the left and the circuit in the foveal retina all the red, green, and blue cones gives one the sensation at the right. The different neuronal cell types are as of seeing white. Yet, there is no single wavelength of light follows: corresponding to white; instead, white is a combination of 1. The photoreceptors—the rods and cones—which all the wavelengths of the spectrum. Furthermore, the per- transmit signals to the outer plexiform layer, where ception of white can be achieved by stimulating the retina they synapse with bipolar cells and horizontal cells with a proper combination of only three chosen colors 2. The horizontal cells, which transmit signals hori- that stimulate the respective types of cones about equally. zontally in the outer plexiform layer from the rods and cones to bipolar cells Color Blindness 3. The bipolar cells, which transmit signals vertically from the rods, cones, and horizontal cells to the in- Red- Green Color Blindness. When a single group of ner plexiform layer, where they synapse with gan- color- receptive cones is missing from the eye, the per- glion cells and amacrine cells son is
