Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


When a single group of ner plexiform layer, where they synapse with gan- color- receptive cones is missing from the eye, the per- glion cells and amacrine cells son is unable to distinguish some colors from others. For 4. The amacrine cells, which transmit signals in two example, one can see in Figure 51- 10 that green, yellow, orange, and red colors, which are the colors between the directions, either directly from bipolar cells to gan- wavelengths of 525 and 675 nanometers, are normally dis- glion cells or horizontally within the inner plexiform tinguished from one another by the red and green cones. layer from axons of the bipolar cells to dendrites of If either of these two cones is missing, the person cannot the ganglion cells or to other amacrine cells use this mechanism for distinguishing these four colors; the 5. The ganglion cells, which transmit output signals person is especially unable to distinguish red from green from the retina through the optic nerve into the brain and is therefore said to have red- green color blindness. A sixth type of neuronal cell in the retina, which is A person with loss of red cones is called a protanope; the not very prominent and is not shown in the figure, is the overall visual spectrum is noticeably shortened at the long interplexiform cell. This type of cell transmits signals in wavelength end because of a lack of the red cones. A color- the retrograde direction from the inner plexiform layer blind person who lacks green cones is called a deuteranope; to the outer plexiform layer. These signals are inhibitory this person has a perfectly normal visual spectral width be- cause red cones are available to detect the long wavelength and are believed to control lateral spread of visual signals red color. However, a deuteranope can only distinguish 2 by the horizontal cells in the outer plexiform layer. Their or 3 different hues, whereas somebody with normal vision role may be to help control the degree of contrast in the sees 7 unique hues. visual image. 646 noitprosba thgiL )mumixam fo tnecrep( eulB neerG wolleY egnarO CHAPTER 51 The Eye: II. Receptor and Neural Function of the Retina Pigment layer Cones Rods Rod nuclei Horizontal Bipolar cells cells Amacrine cells Ganglion cells Figure 51- 12. Neural organization of the retina, with the peripheral area to the left and the foveal
