Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Cones Rods Rod nuclei Horizontal Bipolar cells cells Amacrine cells Ganglion cells Figure 51- 12. Neural organization of the retina, with the peripheral area to the left and the foveal area to the right. brain two to five times as rapidly. Also, the circuitry for the two systems is slightly different. To the right in Figure 51- 12 is the visual pathway from the foveal portion of the retina, representing the new, fast cone system. This illustration shows three neurons in the direct pathway: (1) cones; (2) bipolar cells; and (3) gan- glion cells. In addition, horizontal cells transmit inhibitory signals laterally in the outer plexiform layer, and amacrine cells transmit signals laterally in the inner plexiform layer. To the left in Figure 51- 12 are the neural connections for the peripheral retina, where both rods and cones are present. Three bipolar cells are shown; the middle of these connects only to rods, representing the type of visual sys- tem present in many lower animals. The output from the bipolar cell passes only to amacrine cells, which relay the signals to the ganglion cells. Thus, for pure rod vision, there are four neurons in the direct visual pathway: (1) rods; (2) bipolar cells; (3) amacrine cells; and (4) ganglion cells. In addition, horizontal and amacrine cells provide Figure 51- 11. Two Ishihara charts. In this chart (upper panel), a lateral connectivity. person with normal vision reads “74,” but a red-g reen color- blind The other two bipolar cells shown in the peripheral person reads “21.” In this chart (lower panel), a red- blind person retinal circuitry of Figure 51- 12 connect with both rods (protanope) reads “2,” but a green- blind person (deuteranope) reads “4.” A person with normal vision reads “42.” (From Ishihara S. Tests and cones; the outputs of these bipolar cells pass both for color-blindness. Handaya, Tokyo: Hongo Harukicho, 1917. Note directly to ganglion cells and by way of amacrine cells. that tests for color blindness cannot be conducted with this material. For accurate testing, the original plates should be used.) Neurotransmitters Released by Retinal Neurons. Not all the neurotransmitter chemical substances used for synaptic transmission in the retina have been entirely The Visual Pathway From the Cones to the Ganglion delineated. However, both the rods and the cones release Cells Functions Differently From the Rod Pathway. As glutamate at their synapses with the bipolar cells. is
