Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


Cones to the Ganglion delineated. However, both the rods and the cones release Cells Functions Differently From the Rod Pathway. As glutamate at their synapses with the bipolar cells. is true for many of our other sensory systems, the retina Histological and pharmacological studies have proven has both an old type of vision based on rod vision and a the existence of many types of amacrine cells that secrete new type of vision based on cone vision. The neurons and at least eight types of transmitter substances, including nerve fibers that conduct the visual signals for cone vision gamma- aminobutyric acid (GABA), glycine, dopamine, are considerably larger than those that conduct the visual acetylcholine, and indolamine, all of which normally func- signals for rod vision, and the signals are conducted to the tion as inhibitory transmitters. The transmitters of the 647 UNIT X UNIT X The Nervous System: B. The Special Senses bipolar, horizontal, and interplexiform cells are unclear, but at least some of the horizontal cells release inhibitory transmitters. Transmission of Most Signals Occurs in the Retinal Neurons by Electrotonic Conduction, Not by Action Light beam Potentials. The only retinal neurons that always transmit visual signals via action potentials are the ganglion cells, and they send their signals all the way to the brain through Excited area the optic nerve. Occasionally, action potentials have also been recorded in amacrine cells, although the importance of these action potentials is questionable. Otherwise, all Neither excited the retinal neurons conduct their visual signals by electro- nor inhibited tonic conduction, not by action potentials. Electrotonic conduction means direct flow of electric Inhibited area current, not action potentials, in the neuronal cytoplasm and nerve axons from the point of excitation all the way to the output synapses. Even in the rods and cones, con- Figure 51- 13. Excitation and inhibition of a retinal area caused by a duction from their outer segments to the synaptic bodies small beam of light, demonstrating the principle of lateral inhibition. is by electrotonic conduction. That is, when hyperpolar- ization occurs in response to light in the outer segment of a rod or a cone, almost the same degree of hyperpo- Some of the amacrine cells probably provide additional larization is conducted by direct electric current flow in lateral inhibition and further enhancement of visual con- the cytoplasm all the way to the synaptic body, and no trast in
