Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


larization is conducted by direct electric current flow in lateral inhibition and further enhancement of visual con- the cytoplasm all the way to the synaptic body, and no trast in the inner plexiform layer of the retina as well. action potential is required. Then, when the transmitter Depolarizing and Hyperpolarizing Bipolar from a rod or cone stimulates a bipolar cell or horizontal Cells cell, once again the signal is transmitted from the input to the output by direct electric current flow, not by action Two types of bipolar cells provide opposing excitatory potentials. and inhibitory signals in the visual pathway: (1) the depo- The importance of electrotonic conduction is that it larizing bipolar cell; and (2) the hyperpolarizing bipolar allows graded conduction of signal strength. Thus, for the cell. That is, some bipolar cells depolarize when the rods rods and cones, the strength of the hyperpolarizing out- and cones are excited, and others hyperpolarize. put signal is directly related to the intensity of illumina- There are two possible explanations for this difference. tion; the signal is not all or none, as would be the case for One explanation is that the two bipolar cells are of entirely each action potential. different types, with one responding by depolarizing in response to the glutamate neurotransmitter released by Lateral Inhibition to Enhance Visual the rods and cones and the other responding by hyper- Contrast—Function of the Horizontal Cells polarizing. The other possibility is that one of the bipolar The horizontal cells, shown in Figure 51- 12, connect lat- cells receives direct excitation from the rods and cones, erally between the synaptic bodies of the rods and cones whereas the other receives its signal indirectly through a and with the dendrites of the bipolar cells. The outputs horizontal cell. Because the horizontal cell is an inhibi- of the horizontal cells are always inhibitory. Therefore, tory cell, this would reverse the polarity of the electrical this lateral connection provides the same phenomenon of response. lateral inhibition that is important in other sensory sys- Regardless of the mechanism for the two types of bipo- tems—that is, helping to ensure transmission of visual lar responses, the importance of this phenomenon is that patterns with proper visual contrast. This phenomenon it allows half the bipolar cells to transmit positive signals is demonstrated in Figure 51- 13, which shows a min- and the other half to transmit negative signals.
