Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


This phenomenon it allows half the bipolar cells to transmit positive signals is demonstrated in Figure 51- 13, which shows a min- and the other half to transmit negative signals. We shall ute spot of light focused on the retina. The visual path- see later that both positive and negative signals are used way from the central most area where the light strikes is in transmitting visual information to the brain. excited, whereas an area to the side is inhibited. In other Another important aspect of this reciprocal relation words, instead of the excitatory signal spreading widely in between depolarizing and hyperpolarizing bipolar cells the retina because of spreading dendritic and axonal trees is that it provides a second mechanism for lateral inhi- in the plexiform layers, transmission through the hori- bition, in addition to the horizontal cell mechanism. zontal cells puts a stop to this spread by providing lateral Because depolarizing and hyperpolarizing bipolar cells inhibition in the surrounding areas. This process is essen- lie immediately against each other, this provides a mecha- tial to allow high visual accuracy in transmitting contrast nism for separating contrast borders in the visual image, borders in the visual image. even when the border lies exactly between two adjacent 648 CHAPTER 51 The Eye: II. Receptor and Neural Function of the Retina photoreceptors. In contrast, the horizontal cell mecha- give even more intense stimulation of the peripheral gan- nism for lateral inhibition operates over a much greater glion cells and their optic nerve fibers. distance. Retinal Ganglion Cells and Their Amacrine Cells and Their Functions Respective Fields About 30 types of amacrine cells have been identified by W, X, and Y Cells. Early studies in cats described three morphological or histochemical means. The functions of distinct types of retinal ganglion cells, designated W, X, about half a dozen types of amacrine cells have been char- and Y cells, based on their differences in structure and acterized, and all of them are different: function. • One type of amacrine cell is part of the direct path- The W cells transmit signals in their optic nerve fibers way for rod vision—that is, from rod to bipolar cells at a slow velocity and receive most of their excitation from to amacrine cells to ganglion cells. rods, transmitted via small bipolar cells and amacrine • Another type of amacrine cell responds strongly at cells. They have broad
