Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


their excitation from to amacrine cells to ganglion cells. rods, transmitted via small bipolar cells and amacrine • Another type of amacrine cell responds strongly at cells. They have broad fields in the peripheral retina, are the onset of a continuing visual signal, but the re- sensitive for detecting directional movement in the field sponse dies rapidly. of vision, and are probably important for crude rod vision • Other amacrine cells respond strongly at the offset of under dark conditions. visual signals but, again, the response fades quickly. The X cells have small fields because their dendrites do • Still other amacrine cells respond when a light is not spread widely in the retina, and thus the signals of X turned either on or off, signaling simply a change in cells represent discrete retinal locations and transmit fine illumination, irrespective of direction. details of visual images. In addition, because every X cell • Another type of amacrine cell responds to move- receives input from at least one cone, X cell transmission ment of a spot across the retina in a specific direc- is probably responsible for color vision. tion; therefore, these amacrine cells are said to be The Y cells are the largest of all and transmit signals to directionally sensitive. the brain at 50 m/sec or faster. Because they have broad In a sense, many or most amacrine cells are interneu- dendritic fields, signals are picked up by these cells from rons that help analyze visual signals before they ever leave widespread retinal areas. The Y cells respond to rapid the retina. changes in visual images and apprise the central nervous system almost instantaneously when a new visual event GANGLION CELLS AND OPTIC NERVE occurs anywhere in the visual field, but they do not spec- FIBERS ify the location of the event with great accuracy, other than to give clues that make the eyes move toward the Each retina contains about 100 million rods and 3 million exciting vision. cones, yet the number of ganglion cells is only about 1.6 million. Thus, an average of 60 rods and 2 cones converge P and M Cells. In primates, a different classification of on each ganglion cell and the optic nerve fiber leading retinal ganglion cells is used, and as many as 20 types from the ganglion cell to the brain. of retinal ganglion cells have been described, each re- However,
