Textbook of Medical Physiology
KEYWORDS: cell, cells, dna, rna, body, membrane, protein, control, figure, proteins, called, reticulum, form, endoplasmic, energy


fiber leading retinal ganglion cells is used, and as many as 20 types from the ganglion cell to the brain. of retinal ganglion cells have been described, each re- However, major differences exist between the periph- sponding to a different feature of the visual scene. Some eral retina and the central retina. As one approaches the cells respond best to specific directions of motion or fovea, fewer rods and cones converge on each optic fiber, orientations, whereas others respond to fine details, in- and the rods and cones also become more slender. These creases or decreases in light, or particular colors. The effects progressively increase the acuity of vision in the two general classes of retinal ganglion cells that have central retina. In the central fovea, there are only slen- been studied most extensively in primates, including der cones—about 35,000 of them—and no rods. Also, humans, are designated as magnocellular (M) and par- the number of optic nerve fibers leading from this part vocellular (P) cells. of the retina is almost exactly equal to the number of The P cells (also known as beta cells or, in the central cones, as shown at the right in Figure 51- 12. This phe- retina, as midget ganglion cells) project to the parvocel- nomenon explains the high degree of visual acuity in the lular (small cells) layer of the lateral geniculate nucleus of central retina in comparison with the much poorer acuity the thalamus. The M cells (also called alpha or parasol peripherally. cells) project to the magnocellular (large cells) layer of the Another difference between the peripheral and central lateral geniculate nucleus, which, in turn, relays informa- portions of the retina is the much greater sensitivity of tion from the optic tract to the visual cortex, as discussed the peripheral retina to weak light, which occurs partly in Chapter 52. The main differences between P and M because rods are 30 to 300 times more sensitive to light cells are as follows: than cones. However, this greater sensitivity is further 1. The receptive fields for P cells are much smaller magnified by the fact that as many as 200 rods converge than for M cells. on a single optic nerve fiber in the more peripheral por- 2. P- cell axons conduct impulses much more slowly tions of the retina, so signals from the rods summate to than do M cells. 649 UNIT
